{"id": "30426244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30426244", "title": "Asian philately", "text": "Asian philately\n\nAsian philately, or Far-Eastern philately, is a specialized area of philately which focuses on the stamps of China, Japan, Hong Kong and neighboring countries. Stamp collectors and stamp dealers often specialize in a particular aspect of Asian philately, and many stamp auctions are devoted to this area of interest. Hong Kong is a major center for Asian philately with Chinese collectors and investors some of the biggest buyers.\n\nSo called because of their colour, these stamps are highly sought after by collectors.\n\nIn addition to interest in rarities by advanced collectors there has been spirited public interest in stamps such as the Golden Monkey the 1980 Chinese zodiac stamp which is considered auspicious. A full sheet of this stamp, which is not rare — 5 million were printed, sold in 2011 for $180,000 with a single stamp selling for $1,500. This stamp had a catalogue value of $10 unused and $5 used in 1988. Demand for Chinese zodiac stamps extends to current issues such as the Year of the Rabbit stamp issued in 2011 with supplies selling out at post offices in China within a few hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "4650402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4650402", "title": "Bulgarisation", "text": "Bulgarisation\n\nBulgarisation (also known as Bulgarianisation; or побългаряване) is the spread of Bulgarian culture within various areas in the Balkans.\n\nA number of government policies are considered to be examples of Bulgarisation, including the attempt of the former communist leadership in the 1980s to assimilate a Turkish minority living in Bulgaria.\nDuring the Communist period of Bulgarian history, the Turkish minority (mainly across Bulgaria's east) of the country were forced to change their names from Turkish or Arabic to Bulgarian in 1984, during Todor Zhivkov's rule. Back then, as well as nowadays, the supporters of this policy refer to it as the \"Revival Process\", while critics call it \"the so-called Vǎzroditelen process\". Turkish culture and language as well as Islamic beliefs were also suppressed. The argument was that the Turkish population of Bulgaria were allegedly Bulgarians forced to convert to Islam during the Ottoman rule.\n\nThis project met forceful resistance in the form of large-scale protests, international pressure and cases of terrorism. After the end of Communist rule, people were free to revert to previous names or adopt the names they wished, Arabic/Turkish or other. Some people continued using both names.\n\nIn 2003 the Islamic Human Rights Commission claimed that religious discrimination remained a major problem, but this has not been noted by other human rights organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "18952359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18952359", "title": "Cautionary tale", "text": "Cautionary tale\n\nA cautionary tale is a tale told in folklore, to warn its listener of a danger. There are three essential parts to a cautionary tale, though they can be introduced in a large variety of ways. First, a taboo or prohibition is stated: some act, location, or thing is said to be dangerous. Then, the narrative itself is told: someone disregarded the warning and performed the forbidden act. Finally, the violator comes to an unpleasant fate, which is frequently related in expansive and grisly detail. \n\nCautionary tales are ubiquitous in popular culture; many urban legends are framed as cautionary tales: from the lover's lane haunted by a hook-handed murderer to the tale of a man who shot a cactus for fun only to die when the plant toppled onto him. Like horror fiction, generally the cautionary tale exhibits an ambivalent attitude towards social taboos. The narrator of a cautionary tale is momentarily excused from the ordinary demands of etiquette that discourages the use of gruesome or disgusting imagery because the tale serves to reinforce some other social taboo. \n\nCautionary tales are also frequently utilised to spread awareness of moral issues, and for this reason are often told to children to make them conform to rules that either protect them or are for their own safety.\n\nThose whose job it is to enforce conformity therefore frequently resort to cautionary tales. The German language anthology, \"Struwwelpeter\", contains tales such as \"Die gar traurige Geschichte mit dem Feuerzeug\" (The Dreadful Story of Pauline and the Matches); it is fairly easy to deduce the ending from the title. Social guidance films such as \"Boys Beware\" or \"Reefer Madness\" are deliberately patterned after traditional cautionary tales, as were the notorious driver's education films (\"Red Asphalt\", \"Signal 30\") of the 1960s, or military films about syphilis and other sexually transmitted diseases. The framework of the cautionary tale became a cliché in the slasher films of the 1980s, in which adolescents who had sex, drank alcoholic beverages, or smoked marijuana inevitably ended up as the victims of the serial killer villain. \n\nOn the other hand, in the adolescent culture of the United States, for more than a hundred years the traditional cautionary tale gave rise to the phenomenon of legend tripping, in which a cautionary tale is turned into the basis of a dare that invites the hearer to test the taboo by breaking it.\n\nThe genre of the cautionary tale has been satirized by several writers. Hilaire Belloc in his \"Cautionary Tales for Children\" presented such moral examples as \"Jim, Who ran away from his Nurse, and was eaten by a Lion\", and \"Matilda, Who told lies, and was Burned to Death\". Lewis Carroll, in \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", says that Alice:\n\nIn \"The Complete Tribune Printer\", Eugene Field gave cautionary tales an ironic inversion, as in \"The Gun:\"\nSome films, such as \"Gremlins\", satirized this framework by imposing very arbitrary rules whose violation results in horrendous consequences for the community by not taking responsibility.\n\nCautionary tales are sometimes heavily criticized for their ham-fisted approach to ethics. \"The Cold Equations\" is a well-known example. In the story, a man has to eject a young woman out of the airlock, otherwise his rocket will not have enough fuel to deliver some badly needed serum, without which everyone at a small outpost would perish. Her death is justified because she ignored a 'no entry' sign, \"when the laws of physics say no, they don't mean maybe\", and no other solution would reduce the weight of the ship enough to complete the trip safely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6704", "title": "Christendom", "text": "Christendom\n\nChristendom has several meanings. In one contemporary sense, as used in a secular or Protestant context, it may refer to the \"Christian world\": Christian-majority countries and the countries in which Christianity dominates or prevails, or, in the historic, Catholic sense of the word, the nations in which Catholic Christianity is the established religion, having a Catholic Christian polity.\n\nSince the spread of Christianity from the Levant to Europe and North Africa during the early Roman Empire, Christendom has been divided in the pre-existing Greek East and Latin West. Consequently, different versions of the Christian religion arose with their own beliefs and practices, centred around the cities of Rome (Western Christianity, whose community was called Western or Latin Christendom) and Constantinople (Eastern Christianity, whose community was called Eastern Christendom). From the 11th to 13th centuries, Latin Christendom rose to the central role of the Western world.\n\nIn its historical sense, the term usually refers to the Middle Ages and to the Early Modern period during which the Christian world represented a geopolitical power that was juxtaposed with both the pagan and especially the Muslim world. In the traditional Roman Catholic sense of the word, it refers to the sum total of nations in which the Catholic Church is the established religion of the state or to those with ecclesiastical concordats with the Holy See.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon term \"cristendom\" appears to have been invented in the 9th century by a scribe somewhere in southern England, possibly at the court of king Alfred the Great of Wessex. The scribe was translating Paulus Orosius' book \"History Against the Pagans\" (c. 416) and in need for a term to express the concept of the universal culture focused on Jesus Christ. It had the sense now taken by \"Christianity\" (as is still the case with the cognate Dutch \"christendom\", where it denotes mostly the religion itself, just like the German \"Christentum\").\n\nThe current sense of the word of \"lands where Christianity is the dominant religion\" emerged in Late Middle English (by c. 1400). This semantic development happened independently in the languages of late medieval Europe, which leads to the confusing semantics of English \"Christendom\" equalling German \"Christenheit\", Dutch \"christenheid\", French \"chrétienté\" vs. English \"Christianity\" equalling German \"Christentum\", Dutch \"christendom\", French \"christianisme\". The reason is the increasing fragmentation of Western Christianity at that time both theologically and politically.\n\"Christendom\" as a geopolitical term is thus meaningful in the context of the Middle Ages, and arguably during the European wars of religion and the Ottoman wars in Europe.\n\nCanadian theology professor Douglas John Hall stated (1997) that \"Christendom\" [...] means literally the dominion or sovereignty of the Christian religion.\" Thomas John Curry, Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop of Los Angeles, defined (2001) Christendom as \"the system dating from the fourth century by which governments upheld and promoted Christianity.\" Curry states that the end of Christendom came about because modern governments refused to \"uphold the teachings, customs, ethos, and practice of Christianity.\" British church historian Diarmaid MacCulloch described (2010) Christendom as \"the union between Christianity and secular power.\"\n\nThe \"Christian world\" is also collectively known as the Corpus Christianum, translated as \"the Christian body\", meaning the community of all Christians. The Christian polity, embodying a less secular meaning, can be compatible with the idea of both a religious and a temporal body: \"Corpus Christianum\". The \"Corpus Christianum\" can be seen as a Christian equivalent of the Muslim \"Ummah\".\n\nThe word \"Christendom\" is also used with its other meaning to frame-true Christianity. A more secular meaning can denote the fact that the term \"Christendom\" refers to Christians as a group, the \"political Christian world\", as an informal cultural hegemony that Christianity has traditionally enjoyed in the West.\nIn its most broad term, it refers to the world's Christian-majority countries, which, share little in common aside from the predominance of the faith. Unlike the Muslim world, which has a geo-political and cultural definition that provides a primary identifier for a large swath of the world, Christendom is more complex.\nThere is a common and nonliteral sense of the word that is much like the terms \"Western world\", \"known world\" or \"Free World\". When Thomas F. Connolly said, \"There isn't enough power in all Christendom to make that airplane what we want!\", he was simply using a figure of speech, although it is true that during the Cold War, just as the totalitarianism of the Communist Bloc presented a contrast to the liberty of the Free World, the state atheism of the Communist Bloc contrasted with the religious freedom and the powerful religious institutions in North America and Western Europe. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\"; many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity.\n\nIn the beginning of Christendom, early Christianity was a religion spread in the Greek/Roman world and beyond as a 1st-century Jewish sect, which historians refer to as Jewish Christianity. It may be divided into two distinct phases: the apostolic period, when the first apostles were alive and organizing the Church, and the post-apostolic period, when an early episcopal structure developed, whereby bishoprics were governed by bishops (overseers).\n\nThe post-apostolic period concerns the time roughly after the death of the apostles when bishops emerged as overseers of urban Christian populations. The earliest recorded use of the terms \"Christianity\" (Greek ) and \"catholic\" (Greek ), dates to this period, the 2nd century, attributed to Ignatius of Antioch \"c.\" 107. Early Christendom would close at the end of imperial persecution of Christians after the ascension of Constantine the Great and the Edict of Milan in AD 313 and the First Council of Nicaea in 325.\n\nAccording to Malcolm Muggeridge (1980), Christ founded Christianity, but Constantine founded Christendom. Canadian theology professor Douglas John Hall dates the 'inauguration of Christendom' to the 4th century, with Constantine playing the primary role (so much so that he equates Christendom with \"Constantinianism\") and Theodosius I (Edict of Thessalonica, 380) and Justinian I secondary roles.\n\n\"Christendom\" has referred to the medieval and renaissance notion of the \"Christian world\" as a sociopolitical polity. In essence, the earliest vision of Christendom was a vision of a Christian theocracy, a government founded upon and upholding Christian values, whose institutions are spread through and over with Christian doctrine. In this period, members of the Christian clergy wield political authority. The specific relationship between the political leaders and the clergy varied but, in theory, the national and political divisions were at times subsumed under the leadership of the church as an institution. This model of church-state relations was accepted by various Church leaders and political leaders in European history.\n\nThe Church gradually became a defining institution of the Empire. Emperor Constantine issued the Edict of Milan in 313 proclaiming toleration for the Christian religion, and convoked the First Council of Nicaea in 325 whose Nicene Creed included belief in \"one holy catholic and apostolic Church\". Emperor Theodosius I made Nicene Christianity the state church of the Roman Empire with the Edict of Thessalonica of 380.\n\nAs the Western Roman Empire disintegrated into feudal kingdoms and principalities, the concept of Christendom changed as the western church became one of five patriarchates of the Pentarchy and the Christians of the Eastern Roman Empire developed. The Byzantine Empire was the last bastion of Christendom. Christendom would take a turn with the rise of the Franks, a Germanic tribe who converted to the Christian faith and entered into communion with Rome.\n\nOn Christmas Day 800 AD, Pope Leo III crowned Charlemagne resulting in the creation of another Christian king beside the Christian emperor in the Byzantine state. The Carolingian Empire created a definition of \"Christendom\" in juxtaposition with the Byzantine Empire, that of a distributed versus centralized culture respectively.\n\nThe classical heritage flourished throughout the Middle Ages in both the Byzantine Greek East and the Latin West. In the Greek philosopher Plato's ideal state there are three major classes, which was representative of the idea of the “tripartite soul”, which is expressive of three functions or capacities of the human soul: “reason”, “the spirited element”, and “appetites” (or “passions”). Will Durant made a convincing case that certain prominent features of Plato's ideal community where discernible in the organization, dogma and effectiveness of \"the\" Medieval Church in Europe:\n\n... For a thousand years Europe was ruled by an order of guardians considerably like that which was visioned by our philosopher. During the Middle Ages it was customary to classify the population of Christendom into laboratores (workers), bellatores (soldiers), and oratores (clergy). The last group, though small in number, monopolized the instruments and opportunities of culture, and ruled with almost unlimited sway half of the most powerful continent on the globe. The clergy, like Plato's guardians, were placed in authority... by their talent as shown in ecclesiastical studies and administration, by their disposition to a life of meditation and simplicity, and ... by the influence of their relatives with the powers of state and church. In the latter half of the period in which they ruled [800 AD onwards], the clergy were as free from family cares as even Plato could desire [for such guardians]... [Clerical] Celibacy was part of the psychological structure of the power of the clergy; for on the one hand they were unimpeded by the narrowing egoism of the family, and on the other their apparent superiority to the call of the flesh added to the awe in which lay sinners held them...\" \"In the latter half of the period in which they ruled, the clergy were as free from family cares as even Plato could desire.\n\nAfter the collapse of Charlemagne's empire, the southern remnants of the Holy Roman Empire became a collection of states loosely connected to the Holy See of Rome. Tensions between Pope Innocent III and secular rulers ran high, as the pontiff exerted control over their temporal counterparts in the west and vice versa. The pontificate of Innocent III is considered the height of temporal power of the papacy. The \"Corpus Christianum\" described the then-current notion of the community of all Christians united under the Roman Catholic Church. The community was to be guided by Christian values in its politics, economics and social life. Its legal basis was the \"corpus iuris canonica\" (body of canon law).\n\nIn the East, Christendom became more defined as the Byzantine Empire's gradual loss of territory to an expanding Islam and the muslim conquest of Persia. This caused Christianity to become important to the Byzantine identity. Before the East–West Schism which divided the Church religiously, there had been the notion of a \"universal Christendom\" that included the East and the West. After the East–West Schism, hopes of regaining religious unity with the West were ended by the Fourth Crusade, when Crusaders conquered the Byzantine capital of Constantinople and hastened the decline of the Byzantine Empire on the path to its destruction. With the breakup of the Byzantine Empire into individual nations with nationalist Orthodox Churches, the term Christendom described Western Europe, Catholicism, Orthodox Byzantines, and other Eastern rites of the Church.\n\nThe Catholic Church's peak of authority over all European Christians and their common endeavours of the Christian community — for example, the Crusades, the fight against the Moors in the Iberian Peninsula and against the Ottomans in the Balkans — helped to develop a sense of communal identity against the obstacle of Europe's deep political divisions. The popes, formally just the bishops of Rome, claimed to be the focus of all Christendom, which was largely recognised in Western Christendom from the 11th century until the Reformation, but not in Eastern Christendom. Moreover, this authority was also sometimes abused, and fostered the Inquisition and anti-Jewish pogroms, to root out divergent elements and create a religiously uniform community. Ultimately, the Inquisition was done away with by order of Pope Innocent III.\n\nChristendom ultimately was led into specific crisis in the late Middle Ages, when the kings of France managed to establish a French national church during the 14th century and the papacy became ever more aligned with the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation. Known as the Western Schism, western Christendom was a split between three men, who were driven by politics rather than any real theological disagreement for simultaneously claiming to be the true pope. The Avignon Papacy developed a reputation of corruption that estranged major parts of Western Christendom. The Avignon schism was ended by the Council of Constance.\n\nBefore the modern period, Christendom was in a general crisis at the time of the Renaissance Popes because of the moral laxity of these pontiffs and their willingness to seek and rely on temporal power as secular rulers did. Many in the Catholic Church's hierarchy in the Renaissance became increasingly entangled with insatiable greed for material wealth and temporal power, which led to many reform movements, some merely wanting a moral reformation of the Church's clergy, while others repudiated the Church and separated from it in order to form new sects. The Italian Renaissance produced ideas or institutions by which men living in society could be held together in harmony. In the early 16th century, Baldassare Castiglione (The Book of the Courtier) laid out his vision of the ideal gentleman and lady, while Machiavelli cast a jaundiced eye on \"la verità effetuale delle cose\" — the actual truth of things — in \"The Prince\", composed, humanist style, chiefly of parallel ancient and modern examples of Virtù. Some Protestant movements grew up along lines of mysticism or renaissance humanism (cf. Erasmus). The Catholic Church fell partly into general neglect under the Renaissance Popes, whose inability to govern the Church by showing personal example of high moral standards set the climate for what would ultimately become the Protestant Reformation. During the Renaissance the papacy was mainly run by the wealthy families and also had strong secular interests. To safeguard Rome and the connected Papal States the popes became necessarily involved in temporal matters, even leading armies, as the great patron of arts Pope Julius II did. It during these intermediate times popes strove to make Rome the capital of Christendom while projecting it, through art, architecture, and literature, as the center of a Golden Age of unity, order, and peace.\n\nProfessor Frederick J. McGinness described Rome as essential in understanding the legacy the Church and its representatives encapsulated best by The Eternal City: No other city in Europe matches Rome in its traditions, history, legacies, and influence in the Western world. Rome in the Renaissance under the papacy not only acted as guardian and transmitter of these elements stemming from the Roman Empire but also assumed the role as artificer and interpreter of its myths and meanings for the peoples of Europe from the Middle Ages to modern times... Under the patronage of the popes, whose wealth and income were exceeded only by their ambitions, the city became a cultural center for master architects, sculptors, musicians, painters, and artisans of every kind...In its myth and message, Rome had become the sacred city of the popes, the prime symbol of a triumphant Catholicism, the center of orthodox Christianity, a new Jerusalem.\n\nIt is clearly noticeable that the popes of the Italian Renaissance have been subjected by many writers with an overly harsh tone. Pope Julius II for example was not only an effective secular leader in military affairs, a deviously effective politician but foremost one of the greatest patron of the Renaissance period and person who also encouraged open criticism from noted humanists.\n\nThe blossoming of renaissance humanism was made very much possible due to the universality of the institutions of Catholic Church and represented by personalities such as Pope Pius II, Nicolaus Copernicus, Leon Battista Alberti, Desiderius Erasmus, sir Thomas More, Bartolomé de Las Casas, Leonardo da Vinci and Teresa of Ávila. George Santayana in his work \"The Life of Reason\" postulated the tenets of the all encompassing order the Church had brought and as the repository of the legacy of classical antiquity:\n\nThe enterprise of individuals or of small aristocratic bodies has meantime sown the world which we call civilised with some seeds and nuclei of order. There are scattered about a variety of churches, industries, academies, and governments. But the universal order once dreamt of and nominally almost established, the empire of universal peace, all-permeating rational art, and philosophical worship, is mentioned no more. An unformulated conception, the prerational ethics of private privilege and national unity, fills the background of men's minds. It represents feudal traditions rather than the tendency really involved in contemporary industry, science, or philanthropy. Those dark ages, from which our political practice is derived, had a political theory which we should do well to study; for their theory about a universal empire and a catholic church was in turn the echo of a former age of reason, when a few men conscious of ruling the world had for a moment sought to survey it as a whole and to rule it justly.\n\nDevelopments in western philosophy and European events brought change to the notion of the \"Corpus Christianum\". The Hundred Years' War accelerated the process of transforming France from a feudal monarchy to a centralized state. The rise of strong, centralized monarchies denoted the European transition from feudalism to capitalism. By the end of the Hundred Years' War, both France and England were able to raise enough money through taxation to create independent standing armies. In the Wars of the Roses, Henry Tudor took the crown of England. His heir, the absolute king Henry VIII establishing the English church.\n\nIn modern history, the Reformation and rise of modernity in the early 16th century entailed a change in the \"Corpus Christianum\". In the Holy Roman Empire, the Peace of Augsburg of 1555 officially ended the idea among secular leaders that all Christians must be united under one church. The principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\" (\"whose the region is, his religion\") established the religious, political and geographic divisions of Christianity, and this was established with the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, which legally ended the concept of a single Christian hegemony in the territories of the Holy Roman Empire, despite the Catholic Church's doctrine that it alone is the one true Church founded by Christ.\nSubsequently, each government determined the religion of their own state. Christians living in states where their denomination was \"not\" the established one were guaranteed the right to practice their faith in public during allotted hours and in private at their will.\n\nThe European wars of religion are usually taken to have ended with the Treaty of Westphalia (1648), or arguably, including the Nine Years' War and the War of the Spanish Succession in this period, with the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713. In the 18th century, the focus shifts away from religious conflicts, either between Christian factions or against the external threat of Islamic factions.\n\nThe European Miracle, the Age of Enlightenment and the formation of the great colonial empires together with the beginning decline of the Ottoman Empire mark the end of the geopolitical \"history of Christendom\". Instead, the focus of Western history shifts to the development of the nation-state, accompanied by increasing atheism and secularism, culminating with the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars at the turn of the 19th century.\n\nWriting in 1997, Canadian theology professor Douglas John Hall argued that Christendom had either fallen already or was in its death throes; although its end was gradual and not as clear to pin down as its 4th-century establishment, the \"transition to the post-Constantinian, or post-Christendom, situation (...) has already been in process for a century or two,\" beginning with the 18th-century rationalist Enlightenment and the French Revolution (the first attempt to topple the Christian establishment). American Catholic bishop Thomas John Curry stated (2001) that the end of Christendom came about because modern governments refused to \"uphold the teachings, customs, ethos, and practice of Christianity.\" He argued the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (1791) and the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Religious Freedom (1965) are two of the most important documents setting the stage for its end. According to British historian Diarmaid MacCulloch (2010), Christendom was 'killed' by the First World War (1914–18), which led to the fall of the three main Christian empires (Russian, German and Austrian) of Europe, as well as the Ottoman Empire, rupturing the Eastern Christian communities that had existed on its territory. The Christian empires were replaced by secular, even anti-clerical republics seeking to definitively keep the churches out of politics. The only surviving monarchy with an established church, Britain, was severely damaged by the war, lost most of Ireland due to Catholic–Protestant infighting, and was starting to lose grip on its colonies.\n\nWestern culture, throughout most of its history, has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture, and many of the population of the Western hemisphere could broadly be described as cultural Christians. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\"; many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity. Historian Paul Legutko of Stanford University said the Catholic Church is \"at the center of the development of the values, ideas, science, laws, and institutions which constitute what we call Western civilization.\"\n\nThough Western culture contained several polytheistic religions during its early years under the Greek and Roman Empires, as the centralized Roman power waned, the dominance of the Catholic Church was the only consistent force in Western Europe. Until the Age of Enlightenment, Christian culture guided the course of philosophy, literature, art, music and science. Christian disciplines of the respective arts have subsequently developed into Christian philosophy, Christian art, Christian music, Christian literature etc. Art and literature, law, education, and politics were preserved in the teachings of the Church, in an environment that, otherwise, would have probably seen their loss. The Church founded many cathedrals, universities, monasteries and seminaries, some of which continue to exist today. Medieval Christianity created the first modern universities. The Catholic Church established a hospital system in Medieval Europe that vastly improved upon the Roman \"valetudinaria\". These hospitals were established to cater to \"particular social groups marginalized by poverty, sickness, and age,\" according to historian of hospitals, Guenter Risse. Christianity also had a strong impact on all other aspects of life: marriage and family, education, the humanities and sciences, the political and social order, the economy, and the arts.\n\nChristianity had a significant impact on education and science and medicine as the church created the bases of the Western system of education, and was the sponsor of founding universities in the Western world as the university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Many clerics throughout history have made significant contributions to science and Jesuits in particular have made numerous significant contributions to the development of science. The cultural influence of Christianity includes social welfare, founding hospitals, economics (as the Protestant work ethic), natural law (which would later influence the creation of international law), politics, architecture, literature, personal hygiene, and family life. Christianity played a role in ending practices common among pagan soceities, such as human sacrifice, slavery, infanticide and polygamy.\n\nChristian literature is writing that deals with Christian themes and incorporates the Christian world view. This constitutes a huge body of extremely varied writing. Christian poetry is any poetry that contains Christian teachings, themes, or references. The influence of Christianity on poetry has been great in any area that Christianity has taken hold. Christian poems often directly reference the Bible, while others provide allegory.\n\nChristian art is art produced in an attempt to illustrate, supplement and portray in tangible form the principles of Christianity. Virtually all Christian groupings use or have used art to some extent. The prominence of art and the media, style, and representations change; however, the unifying theme is ultimately the representation of the life and times of Jesus and in some cases the Old Testament. Depictions of saints are also common, especially in Anglicanism, Roman Catholicism, and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nAn illuminated manuscript is a manuscript in which the text is supplemented by the addition of decoration. The earliest surviving substantive illuminated manuscripts are from the period AD 400 to 600, primarily produced in Ireland, Constantinople and Italy. The majority of surviving manuscripts are from the Middle Ages, although many illuminated manuscripts survive from the 15th century Renaissance, along with a very limited number from Late Antiquity.\n\nMost illuminated manuscripts were created as codices, which had superseded scrolls; some isolated single sheets survive. A very few illuminated manuscript fragments survive on papyrus. Most medieval manuscripts, illuminated or not, were written on parchment (most commonly of calf, sheep, or goat skin), but most manuscripts important enough to illuminate were written on the best quality of parchment, called vellum, traditionally made of unsplit calfskin, though high quality parchment from other skins was also called \"parchment\".\n\nChristian art began, about two centuries after Christ, by borrowing motifs from Roman Imperial imagery, classical Greek and Roman religion and popular art. Religious images are used to some extent by the Abrahamic Christian faith, and often contain highly complex iconography, which reflects centuries of accumulated tradition. In the Late Antique period iconography began to be standardised, and to relate more closely to Biblical texts, although many gaps in the canonical Gospel narratives were plugged with matter from the apocryphal gospels. Eventually the Church would succeed in weeding most of these out, but some remain, like the ox and ass in the Nativity of Christ.\n\nAn icon is a religious work of art, most commonly a painting, from Eastern Christianity. Christianity has used symbolism from its very beginnings. In both East and West, numerous iconic types of Christ, Mary and saints and other subjects were developed; the number of named types of icons of Mary, with or without the infant Christ, was especially large in the East, whereas Christ Pantocrator was much the commonest image of Christ.\n\nChristian symbolism invests objects or actions with an inner meaning expressing Christian ideas. Christianity has borrowed from the common stock of significant symbols known to most periods and to all regions of the world. Religious symbolism is effective when it appeals to both the intellect and the emotions. Especially important depictions of Mary include the Hodegetria and Panagia types. Traditional models evolved for narrative paintings, including large cycles covering the events of the Life of Christ, the Life of the Virgin, parts of the Old Testament, and, increasingly, the lives of popular saints. Especially in the West, a system of attributes developed for identifying individual figures of saints by a standard appearance and symbolic objects held by them; in the East they were more likely to identified by text labels.\n\nEach saint has a story and a reason why he or she led an exemplary life. Symbols have been used to tell these stories throughout the history of the Church. A number of Christian saints are traditionally represented by a symbol or iconic motif associated with their life, termed an attribute or emblem, in order to identify them. The study of these forms part of iconography in Art history. They were particularly\n\nChristian architecture encompasses a wide range of both secular and religious styles from the foundation of Christianity to the present day, influencing the design and construction of buildings and structures in Christian culture.\n\nBuildings were at first adapted from those originally intended for other purposes but, with the rise of distinctively ecclesiastical architecture, church buildings came to influence secular ones which have often imitated religious architecture. In the 20th century, the use of new materials, such as concrete, as well as simpler styles has had its effect upon the design of churches and arguably the flow of influence has been reversed. From the birth of Christianity to the present, the most significant period of transformation for Christian architecture in the west was the Gothic cathedral. In the east, Byzantine architecture was a continuation of Roman architecture.\n\nChristian philosophy is a term to describe the fusion of various fields of philosophy with the theological doctrines of Christianity. Scholasticism, which means \"that [which] belongs to the school\", and was a method of learning taught by the academics (or \"school people\") of medieval universities c. 1100–1500. Scholasticism originally started to reconcile the philosophy of the ancient classical philosophers with medieval Christian theology. Scholasticism is not a philosophy or theology in itself but a tool and method for learning which places emphasis on dialectical reasoning.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire, which was the most sophisticated culture during antiquity, suffered under Muslim conquests limiting its scientific prowess during the Medieval period. Christian Western Europe had suffered a catastrophic loss of knowledge following the fall of the Western Roman Empire. But thanks to the Church scholars such as Aquinas and Buridan, the West carried on at least the spirit of scientific inquiry which would later lead to Europe's taking the lead in science during the Scientific Revolution using translations of medieval works.\n\nMedieval technology refers to the technology used in medieval Europe under Christian rule. After the Renaissance of the 12th century, medieval Europe saw a radical change in the rate of new inventions, innovations in the ways of managing traditional means of production, and economic growth. The period saw major technological advances, including the adoption of gunpowder and the astrolabe, the invention of spectacles, and greatly improved water mills, building techniques, agriculture in general, clocks, and ships. The latter advances made possible the dawn of the Age of Exploration. The development of water mills was impressive, and extended from agriculture to sawmills both for timber and stone, probably derived from Roman technology. By the time of the Domesday Book, most large villages in Britain had mills. They also were widely used in mining, as described by Georg Agricola in De Re Metallica for raising ore from shafts, crushing ore, and even powering bellows.\n\nSignificant in this respect were advances within the fields of navigation. The compass and astrolabe along with advances in shipbuilding, enabled the navigation of the World Oceans and thus domination of the worlds economic trade. Gutenberg’s printing press made possible a dissemination of knowledge to a wider population, that would not only lead to a gradually more egalitarian society, but one more able to dominate other cultures, drawing from a vast reserve of knowledge and experience.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, great advances occurred in geography, astronomy, chemistry, physics, math, manufacturing, and engineering. The rediscovery of ancient scientific texts was accelerated after the Fall of Constantinople, and the invention of printing which would democratize learning and allow a faster propagation of new ideas. \"Renaissance technology\" is the set of artifacts and customs, spanning roughly the 14th through the 16th century. The era is marked by such profound technical advancements like the printing press, linear perspectivity, patent law, double shell domes or Bastion fortresses. Draw-books of the Renaissance artist-engineers such as Taccola and Leonardo da Vinci give a deep insight into the mechanical technology then known and applied.\n\nRenaissance science spawned the Scientific Revolution; science and technology began a cycle of mutual advancement. The \"Scientific Renaissance\" was the early phase of the Scientific Revolution. In the two-phase model of early modern science: a \"Scientific Renaissance\" of the 15th and 16th centuries, focused on the restoration of the natural knowledge of the ancients; and a \"Scientific Revolution\" of the 17th century, when scientists shifted from recovery to innovation.\n\nIn 2009, according to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Christianity was the majority religion in Europe (including Russia) with 80%, Latin America with 92%, North America with 81%, and Oceania with 79%. There are also large Christian communities in other parts of the world, such as China, India and Central Asia, where Christianity is the second-largest religion after Islam. The United States is home to the world's largest Christian population, followed by Brazil and Mexico.\nMany Christians not only live under, but also have an official status in, a state religion of the following nations: Armenia (Armenian Apostolic Church), Costa Rica (Roman Catholic Church), Denmark (Church of Denmark), El Salvador (Roman Catholic Church), England (Church of England), Georgia (Georgian Orthodox church), Greece (Church of Greece), Iceland (Church of Iceland), Liechtenstein (Roman Catholic Church), Malta (Roman Catholic Church), Monaco (Roman Catholic Church), Romania (Romanian Orthodox Church), Norway (Church of Norway), Vatican City (Roman Catholic Church), Switzerland (Roman Catholic Church, Swiss Reformed Church and Christian Catholic Church of Switzerland).\n\nThe estimated number of Christians in the world ranges from 2.2 billion to 2.4 billion people. The faith represents approximately one-third of the world's population and is the largest religion in the world, with the three largest groups of Christians being the Catholic Church, Protestantism, and the Eastern Orthodox Church. The largest Christian denomination is the Catholic Church, with an estimated 1.2 billion adherents.\n\nA religious order is a lineage of communities and organizations of people who live in some way set apart from society in accordance with their specific religious devotion, usually characterized by the principles of its founder's religious practice. In contrast, the term Holy Orders is used by many Christian churches to refer to ordination or to a group of individuals who are set apart for a special role or ministry. Historically, the word \"order\" designated an established civil body or corporation with a hierarchy, and ordinatio meant legal incorporation into an ordo. The word \"holy\" refers to the Church. In context, therefore, a holy order is set apart for ministry in the Church. Religious orders are composed of initiates (laity) and, in some traditions, ordained clergies.\n\nVarious organizations include:\n\nWithin the framework of Christianity, there are at least three possible definitions for Church law. One is the Torah/Mosaic Law (from what Christians consider to be the Old Testament) also called Divine Law or Biblical law. Another is the instructions of Jesus of Nazareth in the Gospel (sometimes referred to as the Law of Christ or the New Commandment or the New Covenant). A third is canon law which is the internal ecclesiastical law governing the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox churches, and the Anglican Communion of churches. The way that such church law is legislated, interpreted and at times adjudicated varies widely among these three bodies of churches. In all three traditions, a canon was initially a rule adopted by a council (From Greek \"kanon\" / κανών, Hebrew kaneh / קנה, for rule, standard, or measure); these canons formed the foundation of canon law.\n\nChristian ethics in general has tended to stress the need for grace, mercy, and forgiveness because of human weakness and developed while Early Christians were subjects of the Roman Empire. From the time Nero blamed Christians for setting Rome ablaze (64 AD) until Galarius (311 AD), persecutions against Christians erupted periodically. Consequently, Early Christian ethics included discussions of how believers should relate to Roman authority and to the empire.\n\nUnder the Emperor Constantine I (312-337), Christianity became a legal religion. While some scholars debate whether Constantine's conversion to Christianity was authentic or simply matter of political expediency, Constantine's decree made the empire safe for Christian practice and belief. Consequently, issues of Christian doctrine, ethics and church practice were debated openly, see for example the First Council of Nicaea and the First seven Ecumenical Councils. By the time of Theodosius I (379-395), Christianity had become the state religion of the empire. With Christianity in power, ethical concerns broaden and included discussions of the proper role of the state.\n\nRender unto Caesar… is the beginning of a phrase attributed to Jesus in the synoptic gospels which reads in full, \"Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s, and unto God the things that are God’s\". This phrase has become a widely quoted summary of the relationship between Christianity and secular authority. The gospels say that when Jesus gave his response, his interrogators \"marvelled, and left him, and went their way.\" Time has not resolved an ambiguity in this phrase, and people continue to interpret this passage to support various positions that are poles apart. The traditional division, carefully determined, in Christian thought is the state and church have separate spheres of influence.\n\nThomas Aquinas thoroughly discussed that \"human law\" is positive law which means that it is natural law applied by governments to societies. All human laws were to be judged by their conformity to the natural law. An unjust law was in a sense no law at all. At this point, the natural law was not only used to pass judgment on the moral worth of various laws, but also to determine what the law said in the first place. This could result in some tension. Late ecclesiastical writers followed in his footsteps.\n\nChristian democracy is a political ideology that seeks to apply Christian principles to public policy. It emerged in 19th-century Europe, largely under the influence of Catholic social teaching. In a number of countries, the democracy's Christian ethos has been diluted by secularisation. In practice, Christian democracy is often considered conservative on cultural, social and moral issues and progressive on fiscal and economic issues. In places, where their opponents have traditionally been secularist socialists and social democrats, Christian democratic parties are moderately conservative, whereas in other cultural and political environments they can lean to the left.\n\nAttitudes and beliefs about the roles and responsibilities of women in Christianity vary considerably today as they have throughout the last two millennia — evolving along with or counter to the societies in which Christians have lived. The Bible and Christianity historically have been interpreted as excluding women from church leadership and placing them in submissive roles in marriage. Male leadership has been assumed in the church and within marriage, society and government.\n\nSome contemporary writers describe the role of women in the life of the church as having been downplayed, overlooked, or denied throughout much of Christian history. Paradigm shifts in gender roles in society and also many churches has inspired reevaluation by many Christians of some long-held attitudes to the contrary. Christian egalitarians have increasingly argued for equal roles for men and women in marriage, as well as for the ordination of women to the clergy. Contemporary conservatives meanwhile have reasserted what has been termed a \"complementarian\" position, promoting the traditional belief that the Bible ordains different roles and responsibilities for women and men in the Church and family.\n\nA Christian denomination is a distinct religious body within Christianity, identified by traits such as a name, organisation, leadership and doctrine. Worldwide, Christians are divided, often along ethnic and linguistic lines, into separate churches and traditions. Technically, divisions between one group and another are defined by church doctrine and church authority. Centering on language of \"professed Christianity\" and \"true Christianity\", issues that separate one group of followers of Jesus from another include:\n\nChristianity is composed of, but not limited to, five major branches of Churches: Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, Oriental Orthodoxy, Anglicanism, and Protestantism. Some listings include Anglicans among Protestants while others list the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox together as one group, thus the number of distinct major branches can vary between three and five depending on the listing. The Assyrian Church of the East (Nestorians) and the Old Catholic churches are also distinct Christian bodies of historic importance, but much smaller in adherents and geographic scope. Each of the branches has important subdivisions. Because the Protestant subdivisions do not maintain a common theology or earthly leadership, they are far more distinct than the subdivisions of the other four groupings. \"Denomination\" typically refers to one of the many Christian groupings including each of the multitude of Protestant subdivisions.\n\nIn Christendom, the largest denominations are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13935452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13935452", "title": "Circuit of culture", "text": "Circuit of culture\n\nThe circuit of culture is a theory or framework used in the area of cultural studies. It was devised in 1997 by a group of theorists when studying the Walkman cassette player. The theory suggests that in studying a cultural text or artifact you must look at five aspects: its representation, identity, production, consumption and regulation. Du Gay et al. suggest that \"taken together (these 5 points) complete a sort of circuit...through which any analysis of a cultural text...must pass if it is to be adequately studied.\" Gerard Goggin openly uses this framework in his book \"Cell Phone Culture: Mobile technology in everyday life\" in order to fully understand the cell phone as a cultural artifact. His book is split into four parts: production, consumption, regulation, and representation and identity (through looking at mobile convergences).\n"}
{"id": "19889183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19889183", "title": "Coat pocket", "text": "Coat pocket\n\nMost jackets have a variety of inner pockets, and two main outer pockets, which are generally either patch pockets, flap pockets, or jetted pockets.\nThe patch pocket is, with its single extra piece of cloth sewn directly onto the front of the jacket, a sporting option, sometimes seen on summer linen suits, or other informal styles.\n\nThe jetted flap pocket is standard for hip pockets, with a small strip of fabric taping the top and bottom of the slit for the pocket. It has a lined flap of matching fabric covering the top of the pocket, sewn in along the seam of the jetting. This flap was initially created to protect the contents of the pocket from any rain, and is therefore traditionally meant to be tucked in when indoors, leaving the jettings exposed for show. However, because this fact is now often ignored and the flap is seen as an accessory that completes the style, it is commonly left out indoors, even during formal events.\n\nA jetted pocket with no flap is most formal. This style is most often on seen on formalwear, such as a dinner jacket.\n\nIn addition to the standard two outer pockets, some suits have a third, the ticket pocket, usually located just above the right pocket and roughly half as wide. While this was originally exclusively a feature of country suits, used for conveniently storing a train ticket, it is now seen on some town suits. Another country feature also worn sometimes in cities is a pair of hacking pockets, which are similar to normal ones, but slanted; this was originally designed to make the pockets easier to open on horseback while hacking, also called pleasure riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "2672956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672956", "title": "Copenhagen Opera House", "text": "Copenhagen Opera House\n\nThe Copenhagen Opera House (in Danish usually called Operaen, literally \"The opera\") is the national opera house of Denmark, and among the most modern opera houses in the world. It is also one of the most expensive opera houses ever built with construction costs well over US$500 million. It is located on the island of Holmen in central Copenhagen.\n\nThe A.P. Møller and Chastine Mc-Kinney Møller Foundation donated the Opera House to the Danish state in August 2000 (A.P. Møller was a co-founder of the company now known as Mærsk). Some politicians were offended by the private donation, in part because the full cost of the project would be tax deductible, thus virtually forcing the government to buy the building; but the Folketing and the government accepted it in the autumn of 2000. Architect Henning Larsen and engineers Ramboll and Buro Happold and Theatre Consultant Theatreplan designed the facility. The acoustics were designed by Arup Acoustics and Speirs and Major Associates designed the architectural lighting. A.P. Møller had the final say in the design of the building, however, adding steel to the glass front, among other things. Construction began in June 2001 and was completed on October 1, 2004. It opened on January 15, 2005, in the presence of Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller, Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and Queen Margrethe II.\n\nThe tenor Plácido Domingo made a gala guest appearance as Sigmund in Wagner's \"Die Walküre\" on April 7, 2006, in a production by Kasper Bech Holten) and attended by The Queen.\n\nThe Denmark leg of the Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series takes place here.\n\nThe Opera is located in Copenhagen just opposite the main castle Amalienborg at the shore of the harbour. The opera house is built in alignment with Amalienborg and The Marble Church, so that if one stands in the main entrance of the Opera, one can see the Marble Church over the water along the road through Amalienborg.\n\nThe specific part of the island where the Opera was built is named Dokøen, which means the \"Dock Island\". Just a few meters west of the opera, one can still see an old dock and a pumping station.\n\nThe house is administered by the Royal Danish Theatre and is one of the best-equipped in the world. It has a main stage with five other stages directly connected, where large setups can be moved easily in and out.\n\nThe theatre can seat between 1492 and 1703, depending on the size of the orchestra. The 1492 seats are all individually angled in order to provide the best experience.\n\nThe orchestra pit is one of the largest in any opera house, with room for 110 musicians; the structure provides excellent sound quality for the orchestra. If the pit is filled, some musicians are located just below the front of the stage, which has become controversial among some members of the orchestra (according to tour guides in 2005), because this increases the sound levels, beyond those acceptable in Denmark. However, the overhang is very slight and the authorities have permitted this to happen.\n\nDuring construction of the theatre, some acoustic tests were carried out with the fire curtain in place while technical work was carried out on stage, but great consideration was given to balance between pit and stage. If the orchestra is small or absent, the pit can be covered and additional seats can be added to the auditorium.\nJust like the old Royal Danish Theatre in Copenhagen, The Queen has her own box on the left side of the auditorium, closest to the stage. According to the tour guide, she decided that she preferred this arrangement rather than the more conventional central placement because she loves to be close to the stage to see the artists preparing in the wings before entering the stage.\n\nThe foyer has been designed for comfort, based on behavioural research on operagoers maximizing the wall area for standing against, while still providing views across the entire foyer and one of the best views on Copenhagen.\n\nGuided tours cover most of the building, including both the auditorium and backstage areas.\n\nBesides the main stage, the building also includes a small stage for experimental theatre, a so-called \"black box\" theatre called Takkelloftet. It was named after the original \"Takkelloftet\", a building just south of the Opera 280 meters long and built between 1767 and 1772 for storing ropes for the navy. Thus the opera maintains a connection to the marine history of its location.\n\nEverything on the stage and in the audience area is totally black, and the audience seats can easily be removed in order to make the room much easier to configure for alternative setups. There are up to approximately 200 seats for this stage.\n\nTakkelloftet has its own foyer. In this room, some of the walls are decorated using the same Jura Gelb limestone as outdoor. These stones are mounted on the wall in a way that makes it possible to use the stone plates as a kind of music instrument just by knocking on them with bare hands.\n\nThe Opera has 6 main stages: 1 visible for the audience, and 5 for rehearsals and set preparation. It has almost everything needed for opera, ballet etc., including stage elevators, movable balletfloors, etc. The building totals 41,000 m² and has 14 floors, of which 5 are below ground. It contains more than 1000 rooms, including a large orchestral rehearsal room. Despite its luxurious equipment, there are only approximately 1500 seats because a larger number of seats would hamper the quality of sound.\n\nUnlike the old opera in Copenhagen, the artists are allowed to take the elevator from their dressing room to the stage, because of their reliability. However, the dressing rooms are farther from the stage, making it almost impossible to return for quick costume changes. Designers did not account for this, but stagehands have solved this problem by constructing temporary dressing rooms near the main stage for quick changes of clothes or makeup.\n\nThe building makes it possible to go outside on the top floor, but it is only possible to walk comfortably at the south side of the building (opposite to the entrance). The employee canteen is located in this area, isolated from public view.\n\nThe building was designed by architect Henning Larsen in close and often problematic collaboration with Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller. Mærsk wanted the building to have several features in its design: it would not become obsolete in function and appearance due to any fiscal compromise. He personally tested seats and materials, he visited many places in the world to see how opera buildings were constructed and how the building materials were looking after having been exposed over time to weather. Henning Larsen, on the other hand, was trying to make sure that the original architectural ideas were carried through the construction process, especially concerning the large glass surface front, which became a matter of great controversy and subsequent compromise.\n\nThe building exterior is faced with Jura Gelb limestone and situated on ground that is surrounded by canals that are designed to give the impression the structure is on an island. The bridges constructed to access the building were made from oak trees originally planted in the 19th century for use in replacing the national fleet that was lost with the bombardment of Copenhagen in September 1807. The front of the building was originally designed with large glazing panels in order to see the shell of the auditorium from the harbor side. However, Mærsk emphasized that glass does not age well, so the façade was changed to a metal grid.\n\nThe foyer floor is Sicilian Perlatino marble. The central foyer holds three spherical chandeliers created by the Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson. Each chandelier consists of several pieces of glass, which are semipermeable allowing some light to pass, and some to reflect. The patterns change when viewed from different angles. Per Arnoldi designed the logo for the opera, visible in the marble floor just inside the entrance, and Per Kirkeby created four bronze reliefs for the wall to the auditorium, just below the maple wood part. Per Arnoldi also designed the Front curtain for the main stage, made of multiple color threads creating a three-dimensional effect, that does not reproduce well in photographs.\n\nThe rear wall of the foyer and balcony faces are maple. The architects' original intention was to make the wood look like that from an old violin. However using the same technique would have been far too expensive. Instead, they have tried to imitate the color using more traditional staining techniques, and the result is very close (the official homepage says differently, but the guides in the Opera tell this story). Due to the orange color and its form, it is suitably known by locals as the \"pumpkin\".\n\nThe auditorium ceiling is gilded with about 105,000 sheets of almost pure carat (100%) gold leaf; 24 carat (100%) would not stay applied sufficiently.\n\nThe floor in the main auditorium is smoked oak. The balcony faces have been designed with openings in a special pattern to improve sound quality, and LED-based lighting that can be illuminated in a variety of patterns.\n\nRoute 903 of the Copenhagen Harbour Buses shuttles between Nyhavn and the Opera from 7-23 from Monday-Friday and from 10-23 on weekends. The opera is also served by Harbour Buses Routes 901 & 902, connecting it to various other points along the harbourfront. Route 66 connects the Opera House to the Central Station. As of 2015, the end station of bus 9A is Operaen as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "7963318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963318", "title": "Crematory", "text": "Crematory\n\nA crematory (also known as a crematorium, cremator or retort) is a machine in which bodies are burned down to the bones, eliminating all soft tissue. Crematories are usually found in funeral homes, chapels, cemeteries, veterinary hospitals, or in stand-alone facilities.\n\nPrior to the Industrial Revolution, any cremation which took place was on an outdoor, open pyre. With firewood, and to a lesser extent, coal being the only available fuel options and the low energy efficiency inherent in such a configuration, it is no surprise that cremation enjoyed minimal popularity in densely populated areas up until furnace technology developed during the Industrial Revolution could be applied to cremation to make it more practical in an urbanizing world.\n\nThe organized movement to instate cremation as a viable method for body disposal began in the 1870s. In 1869 the idea was presented to the Medical International Congress of Florence by Professors Coletti and Castiglioni \"in the name of public health and civilization\". In 1873, Professor Paolo Gorini of Lodi and Professor Lodovico Brunetti of Padua published reports or practical work they had conducted. A model of Brunetti's cremating apparatus, together with the resulting ashes, was exhibited at the Vienna Exposition in 1873 and attracted great attention, including that of Sir Henry Thompson, 1st Baronet, a surgeon and Physician to the Queen Victoria, who returned home to become the first and chief promoter of cremation in England.\n\nMeanwhile, Sir Charles William Siemens had developed his regenerative furnace in the 1850s. His furnace operated at a high temperature by using regenerative preheating of fuel and air for combustion. In regenerative preheating, the exhaust gases from the furnace are pumped into a chamber containing bricks, where heat is transferred from the gases to the bricks. The flow of the furnace is then reversed so that fuel and air pass through the chamber and are heated by the bricks. Through this method, an open-hearth furnace can reach temperatures high enough to melt steel, and this process made cremation an efficient and practical proposal. Charles's nephew, Carl Friedrich von Siemens perfected the use of this furnace for the incineration of organic material at his factory in Dresden. The radical politician, Sir Charles Wentworth Dilke, took the corpse of his dead wife there to be cremated in 1874. The efficient and cheap process brought about the quick and complete incineration of the body and was a fundamental technical breakthrough that finally made industrial cremation a practical possibility.\nSir Henry Thompson's main reason for supporting cremation was that \"it was becoming a necessary sanitary precaution against the propagation of disease among a population daily growing larger in relation to the area it occupied\". In addition, he believed, cremation would prevent premature burial, reduce the expense of funerals, spare mourners the necessity of standing exposed to the weather during interment, and urns would be safe from vandalism. On 13 January 1874, some advocates of cremation, including Anthony Trollope, John Everett Millais, George du Maurier, Thomas Spencer Wells, John Tenniel and Shirley Brooks, held a meeting at Thompson's house in London and formally founded the Cremation Society of Great Britain which was \"organised expressly for the purpose of obtaining and disseminating information on the subject and for adopting the best method of performing the process, as soon as this could be determined, provided that the act was not contrary to Law\".\n\nThe first duty of the Cremation Society was to ascertain whether cremation could be legally performed in the country, and then to construct a first crematorium. In 1878, a piece of land in Woking on which the crematorium was to be established was bought by Sir Henry Thompson. Professor Gorini was invited to visit Woking and supervise the erection of his cremation apparatus there.\nIn 1885, the first official cremation in the UK took place in Woking. The deceased was Mrs Jeannette C. Pickersgill, a well-known figure in literary and scientific circles. By the end of the year, the Cremation Society of Great Britain had overseen two more cremations, a total of 3 out of 597,357 deaths in the UK that year. In 1886 ten bodies were cremated at Woking Crematorium. During 1888, in which 28 cremations took place, the Cremation Society planned to provide a chapel, waiting rooms and other amenities there. In 1892 a crematorium opened in Manchester, followed by one in Glasgow in 1895, Liverpool in 1896 and Birmingham Crematorium in 1903.\n\nCrematoria in Europe were built in 1878 in the town of Gotha in Germany and later in Heidelberg in 1891. The first modern crematory in the U.S. was built in 1876 by Francis Julius LeMoyne after hearing about its use in Europe. During that time it was thought that people were getting sick by attending funerals of those recently deceased and that decomposing bodies were leaking into the water systems. LeMoyne built the crematory to cremate bodies in a controlled environment primarily for sanitary reasons. Cremation was used to destroy any organic matter that could cause illness and give families a better way to preserve ashes. Before LeMoyne’s crematory closed in 1901, it had performed 42 cremations.\n\nSome of the various Protestant churches came to accept cremation, with the rationale being, \"God can resurrect a bowl of ashes just as conveniently as he can resurrect a bowl of dust.\" The 1908 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" was critical about these efforts, referring to them as a \"sinister movement\" and associating them with Freemasonry, although it said that \"there is nothing directly opposed to any dogma of the Church in the practice of cremation.\"\nIn 1963, Pope Paul VI lifted the ban on cremation, and in 1966 allowed Catholic priests to officiate at cremation ceremonies.\n\nIn the U.S. only about one crematory per year was built in the late 19th century. As embalming became more widely accepted and used, crematories lost their sanitary edge. To not be left behind, crematories had an idea of making cremation beautiful. They started building crematories with stained-glass windows and marble floors with frescoed walls. By 2008, the cremation rate was 36.2% and was growing about 1 percentage point a year, according to CANA. CANA is the largest organization representing crematories and funeral homes in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nAustralia also started to establish modern cremation movements and societies. Australians had their first purpose-built modern crematorium and chapel in the West Terrace Cemetery in the South Australian capital of Adelaide in 1901. This small building, resembling the buildings at Woking, remained largely unchanged from its 19th-century style and was in full operation until the late 1950s. The oldest operating crematorium in Australia is at Rookwood Cemetery, in Sydney. It opened in 1925.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the foundation of the Association for Optional Cremation in 1874 ushered in a long debate about the merits and demerits of cremation. Laws against cremation were challenged and invalidated in 1915 (two years after the construction of the first crematorium in the Netherlands), though cremation did not become legally recognised until 1955.\n\nWhile open outdoor pyres were used in the past and are often still used in many areas of the world today, notably India, most cremation in industrialized nations takes place within enclosed furnaces designed to maximize utilization of the thermal energy consumed while minimizing the emission of smoke and odors.\n\nA human body usually contains a negative caloric value, meaning that energy is \"required\" to combust it. This is a result of the high water content; all water must be vaporized which requires a very large amount of thermal energy.\n\nA 68 kg (150 lbs) body which contains 65% water will require 100 MJ of thermal energy before any combustion will take place. 100 MJ\nis approximately equivalent to 32 m (105 ft) of natural gas, or 3 liters of fuel oil (0.8 US gallons). Additional energy is necessary to make up for the heat capacity (\"preheating\") of the furnace, fuel burned for emissions control, and heat losses through the insulation and in the flue gases.\n\nAs a result, crematories are most often heated by burners fueled by natural gas. LPG (propane/butane) or fuel oil may be used where natural gas is not available. These burners can range in power from 150 kW (0.5 MMBTU/h) to over 400 kW (1.5 MMBTU/h).\n\nCrematories heated by electricity also exist in India, where electric heating elements bring about cremation without the direct application of flame to the body.\n\nCoal, coke, and wood were used in the past, heating the chambers from below (like a cooking pot). This resulted in an indirect heat and prevented mixing of ash from the fuel with ash from the body. The term \"retort\" when applied to cremation furnaces originally referred to this design.\n\nThere has been interest, mainly in developing nations, to develop a crematory heated by concentrated solar energy. Another new design starting to find use in India, where wood is traditionally used for cremation, is a crematory based around a wood gas fired process. Due to the manner in which the wood gas is produced, such crematories use only a fraction of the required wood; and according to multiple sources, have far less impact on the environment than traditional natural gas or fuel oil processes.\n\nA typical unit contains a primary and secondary combustion chamber. These chambers are lined with a refractory brick designed to withstand the high temperatures.\n\nThe primary chamber contains the body – one at a time usually contained in some type of combustible casket or container. This chamber has at least one burner to provide the heat which vaporizes the water content of the body and aids in combustion of the organic portion. A large door exists to load the body container. Temperature in the primary chamber is typically between 760 and 1150 °C (1400 to 2100 °F). Higher temperatures speed cremation but consume more energy, generate more nitric oxide, and accelerate spalling of the furnace's refractory lining.\n\nThe secondary chamber may be at the rear or above the primary chamber. A secondary burner(s) fires into this chamber, oxidizing any organic material which passes from the primary chamber. This acts as a method of pollution control to eliminate the emission of odors and smoke. The secondary chamber typically operates at a temperature greater than 900 °C (1650 °F).\n\nThe flue gases from the secondary chamber are usually vented to the atmosphere through a refractory-lined flue. They are at a very high temperature, and interest in recovering this thermal energy e.g. for space heating of the funeral chapel, or other facilities or for distribution into local district heating networks has arisen in recent years. Such heat recovery efforts have been viewed in both a positive and negative light by the public.\n\nIn addition, filtration systems (baghouses) are being applied to crematories in many countries. Activated carbon adsorption is being considered for mercury abatement (as a result of dental amalgam). Much of this technology is borrowed from the waste incineration industry on a scaled-down basis. With the rise in the use of cremation in Western nations where amalgam has been used liberally in dental restorations, mercury has been a growing concern.\n\nThe application of computer control has allowed the crematory to be more automated, in that temperature and oxygen sensors within the unit along with pre-programmed algorithms based upon the weight of the deceased allow the unit to operate with less user intervention. Such computer systems may also streamline recordkeeping requirements for tracking, environmental, and maintenance purposes.\n\nThe time to carry out a cremation can vary from 70 minutes to 210 minutes. Crematories used to run on timers (some still do) and one would have to determine the weight of the body therefore calculating how long the body has to be cremated for and set the timers accordingly. Other types of crematories merely have a start and a stop function for the cremation displayed on the user interface. The end of the cremation must be judged by the operator who in turn stops the cremation process.\n"}
{"id": "6435607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6435607", "title": "Cultural impact of the Falklands War", "text": "Cultural impact of the Falklands War\n\nThe cultural impact of the Falklands War spanned several media in both Britain and Argentina. A number of films and television productions emerged from the conflict. The first Argentine film about the war was \"Los chicos de la guerra\" (\"The Boys of the War\") in 1984. The BBC drama \"Tumbledown\" (1988) told the story of a British officer who got paralysed due to a bullet wound. The computer game \"Harrier Attack\" (1983) and the naval strategy game \"Strike Fleet\" (1987) are two examples of Falklands-related games. A number of fictional works were set during the Falklands War, including in Stephen King's novella \"The Langoliers\" (1990), in which the character Nick Hopewell is a Falklands veteran. The war provided a wealth of material for non-fiction writers; in the United Kingdom (UK) an important account became Max Hastings and Simon Jenkins' \"The Battle for the Falklands\".\n\nThe Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges wrote a short poem, called \"Juan López y John Ward\" (1985), about two fictional soldiers (one from each side), who died in the Falklands, in which he refers to \"islands that were too famous\". Another Argentine example is \"Elegy for the Argentine Dead Boys, in the South Atlantic\" by Salvador Oria. Music referencing the war includes songs by Captain Sensible, the Argentine punk-rock band Los Violadores' song \"Comunicado #166\", and British heavy metal band Iron Maiden's song called \"Como Estais Amigos\".\n\nA number of films and television productions emerged from the conflict. Notable examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe war provided a wealth of material for writers, and many dozens of books came from it; in the United Kingdom (UK) an account was Max Hastings and Simon Jenkins' \"The Battle for the Falklands\". Major General Julian Thompson, of the Royal Marines, wrote his own account as commander in his 1985 book \"No Picnic: 3 Commando Brigade in the South Atlantic\". Other titles focused on the Sea Harrier (Sharkey Ward's \"Sea Harrier over the Falklands\"), the land battles leading up to the Argentine surrender (Christian Jennings and Adrian Weale's \"Green Eyed Boys\"), and the general experience of battle and life in the surrounding area (Ken Lukowiak's \"A Soldier's Song\" and \"Marijuana Time\"). Vincent Bramley's \"Forward into Hell\" offers a less apologetic account of the War. In Argentina, one of the best-known is Commodore Pablo Carballo's \"Halcones de Malvinas\", a collection of personal experiences of fighter pilots and many others and mandatory reading for admission to the FAA's \"Escuela de Aviación Militar\".\n\nThe Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges, himself partly of British descent and raised bilingually in Spanish and English, wrote a short poem, called \"Juan López y John Ward\" (1985), about two fictional soldiers (one from each side), who died in the Falklands, in which he refers to \"islands that were too famous\". He also said about the war: \"The Falklands thing was a fight between two bald men over a comb.\"\n\nA large amount of poetry has been written on both sides, regarding the war. An Argentine example is \"Elegy for the Argentine Dead Boys, in the South Atlantic\" by Salvador Oria.\n\n\nMusic referencing the war includes:\n\n\nLinda Kitson was the official war artist accompanying British troops during the Falklands Conflict. She created over 400 drawings of the troops' daily life, many of which are now part of the Imperial War Museum’s art collection and were exhibited to the general public in November 1982. They were featured again in the Museum's exhibition \"Women War Artists\", in 2011-2012. All of Kitson's drawings which were not retained by the Museum were sold.\n\nTottenham Hotspur's popular Argentine midfielder Ossie Ardiles had helped beat Leicester City in an FA Cup semi-final one day after the invasion: whilst Ardiles was booed by the Leicester fans, who chanted \"England, England, England\" whenever he touched the ball, the Tottenham supporters responded by chanting \"Argentina, Argentina, Argentina\" in support of Ardiles. Two days later he left England to return to Argentina: according to him, this had already been arranged before the war so he could prepare with the Argentina national football team ahead of the 1982 FIFA World Cup. Whilst Tottenham's manager Keith Burkinshaw wanted Ardiles to return to the club for the next season, Ardiles felt unable to do this, and as a compromise it was agreed that he would instead go on loan to Paris Saint-Germain. However he would subsequently return to Tottenham, remaining with the club until 1988 and winning the UEFA Cup with them in 1984. His cousin José Ardiles, a fighter pilot, was killed during the early stages of the air campaign, becoming the first Argentine pilot to die in the war. Ardiles' countryman and Tottenham team-mate, Ricardo Villa, also chose to miss the 1982 FA Cup Final, and subsequently left the club in 1983. \"White, Blue and White\", a documentary on Ardiles and Villa's experiences in England, including the period of the conflict, was produced for ESPN's \"30 for 30\" series.\n\nElsewhere, Stockport County stopped using their blue-and-white kit inspired by the Argentine national team, stating that playing in it \"hardly seems appropriate, given the current circumstances\". The war also created heightened passions between Argentina and England in the 1986, 1998, and 2002 FIFA World Cups, featuring play by Diego Maradona, Peter Shilton, and David Beckham. (See Argentina–England football rivalry.)\n\nThe war is commemorated as \"Día del Veterano de Guerra y los Caídos en Malvinas\" (\"Veterans and Fallen Soldiers of the Falklands Day\"), a public holiday in Argentina, on 2 April. It is sometimes referred to as Malvinas Day.\n\nIn Britain, those who lost their lives are remembered as part of Remembrance Sunday.\n\nIn the Falkland Islands themselves, two holidays commemorate the war: Margaret Thatcher Day on 10 January and Liberation Day on 14 June (or the first Monday afterward, if it falls on a weekend).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there is a national memorial at Pangbourne College, a small co-educational public school in Berkshire; it is titled the Falkland Islands Memorial Chapel.\n\nThere are several memorials in the Falkland Islands, the most predominate of which is the 1982 Liberation Memorial in Stanley which was unveiled on 14 June 1984 (the second anniversary of the end of the war and liberation of the Falkland Islanders).\n\nWhen the war started a Buenos Aires street, \"Calle Inglaterra\" (England Street), was renamed \"Calle 2 de Abril\" (April 2 Street), after the start date of the war. In November 2013, the street briefly reverted to its original name \"Calle Inglaterra\". But due to the resulting denunciations and fierce protests caused by this name, the same street was finally renamed in March 2014 as the \"Pasaje 2 de Abril\" by the Buenos Aires government, also because another street named \"Calle 2 de Abril\" already exists in Buenos Aires.\n\nIn 1982, after the Falklands War ended, the clock tower \"Torre de los Ingleses\" (Tower of the English), which was a gift from the local British community to the city of Buenos Aires in commemoration of the centennial of the May Revolution of 1810, was renamed as the \"Torre Monumental\" (Monumental Tower). At the same time, the \"Plaza Británica\" (British Square), where the tower is situated, was renamed as the \"Plaza Fuerza Aérea Argentina\" (Argentine Air Force Square). The Monument to the Fallen Soldiers was built in this square.\n\nThis war is occasionally written as \"The Falklands/Malvinas War\", recognising the international split over the Islands' name. Other constructs such as \"Falklands Conflict\" and \"Falklands Crisis\" have also been used. The term \"Guerra de las Malvinas\" or \"Malvinas War\" is the one normally used in Spanish-speaking countries and has also been used by some socialist groups in English-speaking countries.\n\nThe name \"Guerra del Atlántico Sur\", meaning \"War of the South Atlantic\" is also used in Spanish. Unlike the term \"Falklands/Malvinas War\", this reflects the fact that some of the conflict occurred in South Georgia (which at the time was a dependency of the Falklands), and the deep ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "31076613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31076613", "title": "Death of the Poet", "text": "Death of the Poet\n\n\"Death of the Poet\" () is an 1837 poem by Mikhail Lermontov, written in reaction to the death of Alexander Pushkin.\n\nPushkin was mortally wounded in a duel on January 27, 1837, and died on the 29th. Lermontov began his first formulation of the poem (ending with the phrase \"...his lips forever sealed\") as soon as he heard of the event, and within a short time copies of the poem began to be circulated in St. Petersburg.\n\nWithin days the doctor Nikolai Arendt visited Lermontov (who was ill) and told him the details of the death of Pushkin, whom Arendt had tried to save. Arendt's story likely influenced Lermontov's development of the poem.\n\nPyotr Vyazemsky described the reaction of Arendt to the death of Pushkin:\n\nOn February 7, Lermontov added an acerbic final sixteen lines (beginning \"And you, the arrogant descendants of infamous scoundrels...\") to the poem. These lines called for divine justice upon the heads of the \"greedy horde\" of the court aristocracy, whom Lermontov condemned as executioners of freedom and the true culprits of the tragedy. Hand-written copies of this version of the poem circulated among the Petersburg intelligentsia and came to the attention of the authorities. Those final sixteen lines were regarded by the authorities as seditious free thinking, and Lermontov was arrested. After a brief investigation he was, on the orders of the Emperor Nicholas I, exiled to a regiment in the Caucasus on February 25.\n\nThe poem was only published long after Lermontov's death. The first publication (a German translation under the title \"Lermontov's lament at the grave of Alexander Pushkin\") was in 1852 in Friedrich von Bodenstedt's \"Mikhail Lermontoff's Poetic Legacy\". The first published English translation (under the title \"On the death of Pushkin\") was in 1856, in Alexander Herzen's London periodical \"Polar Star\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54662741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54662741", "title": "Dianism", "text": "Dianism\n\nDianism is a 19th-century American spiritual sexual practice consisting of \"sexual satisfaction from sexual contact\" but without ejaculation. The practice was named for Diana, the Roman goddess of chastity, by American court reporter and astronomer Henry M. Parkhurst in his 1882 pamphlet \"Diana\". In the 1890s, sexual mystic Ida Craddock included Dianism as part of her teachings. In the 20th century, the practice found favor with American followers of Aleister Crowley, most notably C.F. Russell.\n\nHenry M. Parkhurst (March 1, 1825 - January 21, 1908) was an American stenographer who served as Chief Official Court Reporter for the US Senate, an astronomer with pioneering work in Photometry, and an author. \n\nIn 1882, Henry M. Parkhurst anonymously published \"Diana: A psycho-fyziological essay on sexual relations, for married men and women\".\n\nWhile Parkhurst drew inspiration from radical religious philosopher John Humphrey Noyes, Dianism is \"radically different\" from Noyes's \"male continence\" or Stockham's \"karezza\". \n\nParkhurt later took credit for the pamphlet, authoring the 1887 work \"Why I Wrote 'Diana'\".\n\nElmina Slenker was a \"prominent promoter of the 'Diana method' of continence and distributor of the pamphlet Diana which explained to readers how to practice sexual expression without fears of conception\".\n\nSlenker described herself as Dianist free lover\" and advised her readers to \"conserve the life forces and not needlessly waste them in mere 'paroxysms of pleasure'.\n\nIn April 1887, Slenker was arrested under the Comstock Act for sending sex-advice through the mail. On November 4, 1887,\nSlenker was freed by a judge. Parkhurst briefly took the stand in her defense at her trial.\n\nIda Craddock (August 1, 1857 – October 16, 1902) was a 19th-century American occultist, Theosophist, and author, sex reformer and mystic.\n\nCraddock developed an interest in the occult through her association with the Theosophical Society beginning around 1887. She tried in her writings to synthesize translated mystic literature and traditions from many cultures into a scholarly, distilled whole. Craddock became a student of religious eroticism and declared herself a Priestess and Pastor of the Church of Yoga. Never married, Craddock eventually claimed to have a blissful ongoing marital relationship with an angel named Soph. Craddock even stated that her intercourse with Soph was so noisy as to draw complaints from her neighbors. Her mother responded by threatening to burn Craddock's papers and unsuccessfully tried to have her institutionalized.\n\nIn Chicago, Craddock opened an office offering \"mystical\" sexual counseling to married couples via both walk-in counseling and mail order. She dedicated herself to “preventing sexual evils and sufferings” by educating adults.\n\nIn 1894, Craddock authored \"Heavenly Bridegrooms\", in which she described her sexual relationship with a spiritual being she called Soph. In 1899, she authored \"Psychic Wedlock\", which provided further detail on her spiritual worldview and recommended training.\n\nCraddock cites New Thought leader Alma Gillen, a London teacher of \"Divine Healing\" (also called \"Divine Science\"), who divides the universe into three 'factors': (1) The Thinker (that which thinks); (2) The mentality, \"where thoughts are shaped\"; and (3) \"the body, the material life, where spirit finds expression as outward form.\" Craddock explains that \"it is incorrect to say 'I *have* spirit.' We should say 'I *am* a spirit'\". \n\nCraddock argues that \"every act ... consists of three stages.\" which she illustrates by stating: \"Let us suppose a man: \n\nCraddock refers to the first degree, known as \"Alpha-ism\", which she defines as \"No sex union except for the distinct purpose of begetting a child\". Craddock emphasized the importance of Alpha-ism during pregnancy, claiming that \"Modern researchers have shown the impressionability of the embryo child during gestation\" and that \"Napoleon the Great owed his remarkable military genius to the fact that, prior to his birth, his mother accompanied her husband through a military campaign.\"\n\nAfter mastering Alpha-ism, Craddock's suggests readers consult Parkhurt's pamphlet \"Diana\" as an introduction to the second degree, which is \"the most difficult of the three degrees to acquire, physiologically speaking, inasmuch as it exacts supreme self-control at a crucial moment.\" But Craddock promises that \"as the power of self-control is developed, it becomes and more possible for a man to do here just what he wills. And no man who has once acquired this power will ever care to return to the old habit of abandonment to passion; for he will see that he was then a slave, whereas now he is a king\".\n\nCraddock writes that: \"There is a belief among some occultists that an earnest wish breathed at that time, when husband and wife are one, will not fail to be granted. This opens, it is said, the door to those who practice what is called 'black magic', and enables them to work harm upon other human beings.\" Craddock continues: \"What foundation there is for this belief as applied to the magicians I do not see. If it really be that a wish is granted then more readily than when the seeker is in any other mood, it is probably because the occultist who attains the second degree has to exercise such supreme self-control at that moment that he is complete master of his sub-consciousness\". \n\nAccording to Craddock the \"Third and Highest Degree\", involves \"Communion with Deity as the third partner in marital union\".\n\nIn 1915, American author Theodore Schroeder published Ida Craddock's \"Heavenly Bridegrooms\", along with a brief introduction, in the pages of the journal \"The Alienist and Neurologist\". Schroeder was an associate of occultist Aleister Crowley, and introduced Craddock's work to Crowley. In 1919, Crowley reviewed \"Heavenly Bridegrooms\" in the pages of the journal \"The Equinox\", stating that it was:\n\nSchroeder was subsequently contacted by notable Crowley followers included British Columbia OTO founder Charles Stansfeld Jones and Crowley's New York based representative Karl Germer. \n\nIn 1932, Crowley-associate American C.F. Russell founded his own occult group, the GBG. Russell developed his own curriculum of sex magick. GBG disciple Louis T. Culling later published these in two works entitled \"The Complete Magickal Curriculum of the Secret Order G.'.B.'.G.'.\" and \"Sex Magick\". The first two degrees are \"Alphaism and Dianism\". Culling writes that Dianism is \"sexual congress without bringing it to climax\" and that each participant is to regard their partner not as a \"known earthly personality\" but as a \"visible manifestation of one's Holy Guardian Angel. After his involvement with the GBG, in 1938, Culling joined the Agape Lodge, the Southern California chapter of the OTO. Dianism was also promoted by 1960s and 70s spiritual leader Father Yod as part of his New Age organization called \"The Source Family\".\n\nIn 1981, Marcelo Ramos Motta, a student of Karl Germer who went on to become leader the OTO in Brazil, re-published Heavenly Bridegrooms and Psychic Wedlock.\n\n"}
{"id": "6417790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6417790", "title": "Dolls (1987 film)", "text": "Dolls (1987 film)\n\nDolls is a 1987 Italian-American horror film directed by Stuart Gordon, produced by Charles Band and Brian Yuzna and was written by Ed Naha. It stars Stephen Lee, Guy Rolfe, Hilary Mason, Ian Patrick Williams and Bunty Bailey. In the film, during a harsh thunderstorm, a group of six people arrives at the mansion of an old puppetmaker and his wife. The film eventually reveals that the puppetmaker's puppets in the house are actually cursed immoral people who had been killed and imprisoned in puppet bodies for years in order to pay for their crimes. \n\nThe film was released on March 6, 1987 and was a commercial failure, grossing $3.5 million worldwide against a budget of only $2 million.\n\nA violent thunderstorm strands a couple and child in the gothic English countryside: little Judy, who is traveling with her selfish, uncaring father, David and her rich, callous, arrogant stepmother Rosemary. David only has Judy due to a court order and barely tolerates her presence. After their car is stuck in mud and the rain begins, they find a mansion. After breaking in, they are found by the owners, a kindly older couple, Gabriel and Hilary Hartwicke. Rosemary threw Judy's beloved teddy bear into the bushes while out in the rain, so Gabriel gifts her a new doll, Mr. Punch. They are invited to stay and while eating, Isabel and Enid (two British punk rocker hitchhikers) barge in with the person who picked them up, Ralph. Gabriel reveals himself to be a talented toy maker; their house is filled with dolls, puppets, and many other beautifully detailed and handmade toys. The Hartwickes invite the stranded travelers to join them to stay as guests until the storm ends and show them to their rooms.\n\nIsabel has thievery on her mind and before taking Ralph's wallet and car, she plans on stealing the Hartwickes' antiques. Enid just wants to get through the night. Isabel sneaks out and while casing a room, is brutally attacked and beaten by the dolls and thrown into the hallway in front of Judy. Unable to ask for help, she extends her hand and before Judy could assist, she is dragged to the attic. Judy goes to Ralph's room to tell him what happened and since she woke him up, he thinks she's dreaming. However as she turns to leave, he notices blood on her slippers so he agrees to accompany Judy. However on the way downstairs, some of the dolls trip Ralph and he falls down the stairs. He's fine when he gets up except for a bite that he believes is from a rat. They arrive at David and Rosemary's room and Judy tries to tell him what happened, but they along with Enid accuse him of attacking Isabel and being a pedophile. Upset at the treatment of her new friend, Judy runs off with her father behind her. While looking for Judy, Ralph runs into Gabriel who tells him that it's not blood but paint that he and Judy stepped in and Isabel probably got lost in one of the halls in the large house. Satisfied, he continues his search for Judy, finding her in the kitchen along with Punch. She continues to try to convince him, but he doesn't believe in the dolls until Punch himself speaks up. \n\nRosemary is ambushed and attacked repeatedly by the toys before accidentally leaping to her death (thinking she was jumping over them) out of a window. Enid goes looking for Isabel and finds her-at the end of her doll transformation, but still able to attempt to warn her to \"go back.\" She is then attacked by a legion of toys and eventually shot to death by toy soldiers. Rosemary's body has been taken to their bedroom, where, covered in a sheet, her death is not yet noticed by David. A locked room opens itself to Judy and Ralph. Ralph asks if they are Judy's little people and she informs him that they are. Encountering the dolls gathered together, Ralph ends up getting caught up in a trap the toys set for the other adults and is nearly hurt badly until Judy convinces them to save him since he is her friend. Afterwards, they are stuck until the dolls decide what to do with them. David, fresh out of the shower, tries to talk to his wife, but finally finds her dead. Believing Ralph murdered her, David prepares to kill him. Now safe, Judy and Ralph run into the workshop where an angry David finds them. Ralph attempts to tell him what is going on, but David has taken leave of his reason. Ralph has learned the truth about the dolls and refuses to use them to fight, but David doesn't believe even after being attacked by a Punch doll. During their fight, the other dolls drag the unconscious Ralph and Judy away to safety. Mr. Punch is destroyed by David with a mallet after a fierce struggle.\n\nDavid is then confronted by Gabriel and Hilary. It is revealed that Gabriel and Hilary are actually a wizard and witch couple who see toys as the heart and soul of childhood and believe toys will be around for as long as children (or even those with the hearts of children) want them. They also believe that the bitterness adults feel can turn to love if they surrender to the goodwill that toys provide. They explain that people come to their house every now and then and spend the night. When this happens, they test their visitors to see if they can change or were good from the start, giving them a sporting chance to save themselves. Some people like Ralph (people who are able to see the love and respect of childhood) and children (like Judy) are saved/spared and leave the house with a much better perspective of life. However, the ones like David, Rosemary, Isabel and Enid who refuse to change their ways can never leave, since they must play a new role in the world of children. It is shown that that new role is to become a child's toy when David is (apparently painfully) transformed into a doll to replace Mr. Punch.\n\nThe next morning, Ralph and Judy wake up and are convinced by Gabriel and Hilary that the night's events were all just a dream, and receive a letter saying that David is leaving Judy behind because he never was a good father to her and that she will be much happier living in Boston with her mother. The letter also states that her father and stepmother are moving to another country and changing their names, and have also taken the two girls with them, but have left enough money behind for Judy and Ralph to buy plane tickets back to Boston. Ralph and Judy then leave the house together after being bid farewell by Gabriel and Hilary, who invite them to come back whenever they want. As they get into Ralph's car, Judy is overjoyed to find her lost teddy sitting in the front seat, but then decides he would be happier living with the dolls and gives him to the old couple as a gift. As they drive off to the airport, Judy, who has grown quite fond of Ralph, tells him that he will really like her mother and hints to him that if he would like to stay with her and her mother, he could be Judy's new father. Though Ralph does not answer, he seems interested in the idea.\n\nThe film ends with Mr. and Mrs. Bowers and the punk girls sitting on a shelf as dolls. Just then, another car with another family with a set of obnoxious parents suddenly arrives, and their car gets stuck in a mud hole yards from the mansion.\n\n\nStuart Gordon was, at one point, very interested in directing a sequel to this film. The initial storyline would have followed Judy and Ralph back to Boston in which Ralph would have indeed married Judy's mother and they would all become a family. Until, one day Judy would receive a box sent from England which would contain the toy makers, Gabriel and Hilary, as dolls. The said sequel never happened.\n\nCritical reception for \"Dolls\" has been mixed to positive, and the film currently holds a 62% approval rating at review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes. Ain't It Cool News reviewed the DVD, calling it \"a movie that really stands above the type of film you might expect from this era, with this subject matter.\" Roger Ebert's review of the film was mostly negative, writing \"At some point \"Dolls\" remains only an idea, a concept. It doesn't become an engine to shock and involve us,\" though he also conceded that the film \"looks good\" and \"the haunted house looks magnificent. HorrorNews.net's Jeff Colebank listed the toymaking couple as one of the \"13 Best Horror Movie Couples\", stating that Rolfe was \"the creepiest toymaker of them all\". Allmovie's review of the film was mildly favorable, calling it \"a serious-minded, lovingly-crafted modern fairy tale that only misses classic status by a few clumsy, low-budget moments.\"\n\n\"Dolls\" was released to DVD by MGM Home Entertainment on September 20, 2005, as a Region 1 widescreen DVD and by the Scream Factory division of Shout! Factory (under license from MGM) on November 11, 2014 as a Region A widescreen Blu-ray.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155890", "title": "Dramaturgy", "text": "Dramaturgy\n\nDramaturgy is the study of dramatic composition and the representation of the main elements of drama on the stage.\n\nThe term first appears in the eponymous work \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\" (1767–69) by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Lessing composed this collection of essays on the principles of drama while working as the world's first dramaturge at the Hamburg National Theatre. Dramaturgy is distinct from play writing and directing, although the three may be practiced by one individual. Some dramatists combine writing and dramaturgy when creating a drama. Others work with a specialist, called a dramaturge, to adapt a work for the stage.\n\nDramaturgy may also be broadly defined as \"adapting a story to actable form.\" Dramaturgy gives a performance work foundation and structure. Often the dramaturge's strategy is to manipulate a narrative to reflect the current Zeitgeist through cross-cultural signs, theater and film historical references to genre, ideology, role of gender representation etc. in the dramatization.\n\nDramaturgy is a practice-based as well as practice-led discipline invented by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (the author of well known plays such as \"Miss Sara Sampson\", \"Emilia Galotti\", \"Minna von Barnhelm\", and \"Nathan the Wise\") in the 18th century. The Theater of Hamburg engaged him for some years for a position today known as \"dramaturge\". He was first of this kind and described his task as ‘\"dramatic judge\" (\"dramatischer Richter\") who has to be able to tell the difference between the stake the play has or the main actor or the director to make us feel comfortable or not while watching a theatrical performance. From 1767–1770 Lessing wrote and published as result a series of criticisms titled \"Hamburg Dramaturgy (Hamburgische Dramaturgie).\" These works analyzed, criticized and theorized the German theatre, and made Lessing the father of modern dramaturgy.\n\nBased on Lessing's \"Hamburgische Dramaturgie\" (Lessing and Berghahn, 1981) and \"Laokoon\" and Hegel’s \"Aesthetics\" (written 1835–1838), many authors, including Hölderlin, Goethe, Schelling, Thornton Wilder, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams, started to reflect on theater, not only in Germany.,\n\nGustav Freytag summed up those reflections in his book \"The Technique of the Drama\", which has been translated into English and published in the late 19th century in the USA. Freytag's book is seen as the blueprint for the first Hollywood screenwriting manuals. \"The Technique of Play Writing\" by Charlton Andrews, 1915, refers to European and German traditions of dramaturgy and understanding dramatic composition.\n\nAnother important work in the Western theatrical tradition is \"Poetics\" by Aristotle (written around 335 BC). In this work Aristotle analyzes tragedy. Aristotle considers \"Oedipus Rex\" (c. 429 BC) as the quintessential dramatic work. He analyzes the relations among character, action, and speech, gives examples of good plots, and examines the reactions the plays provoke in the audience. Many of his \"rules\" are referred to today as \"Aristotelian drama\". In \"Poetics\", Aristotle discusses many key concepts of drama, such as anagnorisis and catharsis.\n\n\"Poetics\" is the earliest surviving Western work of dramatic theory. The earliest non-Western dramaturgic work is probably the Sanskrit work \"Natya Shastra\" (\"The Art of Theatre\"), written around 500 BCE to 500 CE, which describes the elements, forms and narrative elements of the ten major types of ancient Indian dramas.\n\nDramaturgy is a comprehensive exploration of the context in which the play resides. The dramaturge is the resident expert on the physical, social, political, and economic milieus in which the action takes place, the psychological underpinnings of the characters, the various metaphorical expressions in the play of thematic concerns; as well as on the technical consideration of the play as a piece of writing: structure, rhythm, flow, even individual word choices.\n\nInstitutional dramaturges may participate in many phases of play production including casting of the play, offering in-house criticism of productions-in-progress, and informing the director, the cast, and the audience about a play’s history and its current importance. In America, this type of dramaturgy is sometimes known as Production Dramaturgy. Institutional or production dramaturges may make files of materials about a play's history or social context, prepare program notes, lead post-production discussions, or write study guides for schools and groups. These actions can assist a director in integrating textual and acting criticism, performance theory, and historical research into a production before it opens.\n\nSince dramaturgy is defined in a general way and the function of a dramaturge may vary from production to production, the copyright issues regarding it in the United States have very vague borders.\n\nIn 1996, there was debate based on the question of the extent to which a dramaturge can claim ownership of a production, such as the case of Jonathan Larson, the author of the musical \"Rent\" and Lynn Thomson, the dramaturge on the production. Thomson claimed that she was a co-author of the work and that she never assigned, licensed or otherwise transferred her rights. She asked that the court declare her a co-author of \"Rent\" and grant her 16% of the author's share of the royalties. Although she made her claim only after the show became a Broadway hit, the case is not without precedent. For instance, 15% of the royalties of \"Angels in America\" go to playwright Tony Kushner's dramaturge. On June 19, 1998, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the original court's ruling that Thomson was not entitled to be credited with co-authorship of \"Rent\" and that she was not entitled to royalties. The case was ultimately settled out of court with Thomson receiving an undisclosed sum after she threatened to remove her material from the production.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28224334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28224334", "title": "Dream House (2011 film)", "text": "Dream House (2011 film)\n\nDream House is a 2011 American psychological thriller film directed by Jim Sheridan and starring Daniel Craig, Rachel Weisz, Naomi Watts, and Marton Csokas. It was released on September 30, 2011, in the United States and Canada by Universal Pictures and Morgan Creek Productions. Upon release, \"Dream House\" was panned by critics. The film was released by Warner Bros. in international markets.\n\nWill Atenten returns home to his wife and daughters. His wife is increasingly uneasy due to a series of events, including their daughters seeing a strange man outside their home.\n\nWill tries to enlist the help of the local police but they appear strangely unwilling to assist. He also approaches one of his neighbours who seems apprehensive. He decides to conduct his own investigations and in doing so finds out that he is a mental patient who recently left a psychiatric hospital and then a halfway house and his real name is Peter Ward. Five years earlier, his wife, Libby, (Rachel Weisz) and daughters Trish and Dee Dee were murdered at their home. During the attack, Peter was shot in the head, and so he has no memories of the murders. Instead, he has created a fantasy world in which his wife and daughters are fine. He created a new identity for himself in order to cope with the grief of his family's death. In his fantasy, he is a successful book publisher named Will Atenten based on his inpatient ID band W1ll 8-10-10.Peter moves back to his abandoned old house and lives inside. It is boarded up and unsafe and covered with graffiti, but in Peter's disturbed mind, the house is gorgeous and his wife and kids live there happily. \n\nThe audience learns that everything that has occurred up to this point in the movie was just fantasy. He is informed by the doctors that he claimed he was innocent. He returns to his house, which is actually abandoned and decrepit, and converses with the projections of his wife and daughters, who claim that they believe in his innocence.\n\nHis neighbour Ann (Naomi Watts), reaches out to him. Ann believes in his innocence and encourages Peter to live a new life in order to heal himself. Peter eventually decides to return to his old house to confront his memories and, with Ann's help and support, realizes that he did not kill his family. It was a local man named Boyce (Elias Koteas), who broke into the house and shot Peter's family.\n\nPeter and Ann are suddenly attacked by Boyce and Ann's ex, Jack, who reveals that he had hired Boyce to kill Ann so he could get revenge against her for divorcing him. Boyce got into the wrong house and accidentally killed Peter's family. Jack decides to kill Ann and set the house on fire, framing Peter for her murder, and shoots Boyce as punishment for his early failure. As they try to ignite a fire, Peter escapes, overpowers Jack and saves Ann. Boyce douses Jack in gasoline in revenge for being shot, but Jack shoots him in the head before being consumed by the flames.\n\nWhile Ann and Chloe reunite, Peter confronts the ghosts of his wife and children, who forgive him and say goodbye. Peter escapes, having finally discovered the truth and gained inner peace.\n\nOne year later, Peter has returned to New York City and published a book called \"Dream House,\" using his real name, Peter Ward, about his recent experiences.\n\n\nDirector Jim Sheridan reportedly clashed with Morgan Creek’s James G. Robinson constantly on the set over the shape of the script and production of the film. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", Sheridan tried to take his name off the film after being unhappy with it and his relationship with Morgan Creek Productions.\n\nReportedly, Sheridan, Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz disliked the final cut of the film. The trailer, cut by Morgan Creek Productions, received criticism for revealing the main plot twist of the film.\n\nThe score to \"Dream House\" was composed by John Debney and conducted by Robert Ziegler. Christian Clemmensen, reviewer of Filmtracks.com, gave it four out of five stars, declaring it \"among the biggest surprises of 2011\" and stating, \"It's not clear how badly Debney's work for \"Dream House\" was butchered by the studio's frantic last minute attempts to make the film presentable, but Debney's contribution does feature a cohesive flow of development that is, at least on album, a worthy souvenir from this otherwise messy situation.\" The soundtrack was released 11 October 2011 and features fifteen tracks of score at a running time of fifty-six minutes.\n\nThe film was not screened in advance for critics and was critically panned. On review aggregation Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 6% based on 83 reviews, with a rating average of 3.7/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Dream House\" is punishingly slow, stuffy and way too obvious to be scary.\" Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating to reviews, gives the film a score of 35 out of 100, based on 16 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7134597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7134597", "title": "Education Otherwise", "text": "Education Otherwise\n\nEducation Otherwise (EO) is a registered charity based in England for families whose children are being educated otherwise than at school, and for those who wish to uphold the freedom of families to take responsibility for the education of their children. It provides support and information online, by telephone and through a bi-monthly newsletter to members throughout the UK and overseas.\n\nEstablished in the mid-1970s, it took its name from the (then current) 1944 Education Act (Section 36) which stated that parents are responsible for the education of their children, \"either by regular attendance at school or otherwise\". This clause has been retained in subsequent (currently section 7 of the 1996 Education Act) and remains an indication of the validity afforded to an education other than by schooling.\n\nIn 1972, Royston Lambert, head of Dartington Hall School asked Dick Kitto, who had been working there since 1955, to set up a project in conjunction with Northcliffe School to provide education for a group of non-academic students who would have to take another year in school due to the pending raising of the school leaving age. Kitto established a free school or democratic school model for the running of the project and was impressed by the qualities of the students even though they had effectively unschooled themselves within the school system, where they were perceived as trouble makers.\n\nKitto's \"school\" caught the attention of Stan Windass, who had been working for a children's rights centre in London, through which he had become aware of several families who were educating their own children. Windass had just taken the lease of Lower Shaw Farm and wanted to establish it as a centre to explore ideas for an alternative society. Windass asked Kitto to become the warden at Lower Shaw Farm after the Northcliffe School project ended.\n\nKitto was familiar with ideas about unschooled education through reading John Holt and Joy Baker's \"Children in Chancery\" along with his experiences at the Northcliffe School project. He and Windass were able to contact several families who were educating otherwise and arranged an informal network, and occasional meetings, between them throughout 1975 and 1976.\n\nDuring 1976, Granada Television made a programme about the group which resulted in around 200 enquiries and expanded the membership to over 50. The informal nature of the group could not handle such a level of interest and so, at a meeting in September 1976 which included five deschooling families, a more formal structure for the group was established with stated aims and a regular newsletter. In 1977, Kitto presented a BBC TV \"Open Door\" programme about the ideas behind the organisation. This resulted in over 2,000 enquiries and increased the membership to around 250.\nThe original logo (based on a UK traffic sign) was intended to represent a child breaking-out of the confines of school, and pointing towards a different way. It was submitted to a printer with the request that, before printing, the 'foot' be made to look more as though it was kicking the triangle open; the originator of the drawing had always remained unhappy with that foot and at a later opportunity the logo was amended slightly to make it less like what the originator saw as a \"goose-step\".\n\nWith the steady growth in numbers of members, around 1,500 in 1986 (tenth anniversary) rising to 2,278 in 1992, it was recognised that a trend away from the original ethos of EO was developing. There was much debate about its structure. The April/May 1993 newsletter (Issue 91) featured an EO Restructuring Supplement presenting various options for \"the way forward\". By the mid-1990s, it was being recognised that people were joining EO due to a \"crisis\" and wanted to get their child out of the school system, rather than coming to it with an interest in exploring alternative education provision. There was disaffection with the way the organisation was run via national gatherings which were seen as alienating the majority of members. The debate broadly split into those that wanted to follow a structured style of education with a \"managed\" organisation and those who valued an informal approach and rejecting the status of charitable trust and company limited by guarantee.\n\nA short lived faction, Education Otherwise Unlimited, laid out the conflicting areas with the organisation's structure in a table:\nThe original \"ethos\" grew out of the attitudes and aspirations of the original members. It was not laid down from the start. Kitto saw EO in broad human rights terms:\nAs far as I'm concerned, E.O. does not have a particular kind of education to which it is committed. It is committed to the right of families to do what they want to do. It is a humans (sic) rights organisation. I don't feel we must do this, or we must do that. It is up to the members. To me it is not a specific thing where children have to run wild in the country, or have to pay visits to Winchester Cathedral, or anything else. There is this huge variation. Some people join EO in order to give their children a good classical education which they cannot get at school. I have a fundamental belief in the freedom of choice. We must all be allowed to make our own mistakes. We don't want to be dictated to by a curriculum from central government.\nIn 1991, the government introduced a Parent's Charter (subtitled: \"You and Your Child's Education\") which promised parents reports about their children and their schools. In 1994, a revised version of the Parent's Charter (subtitled: Our Children's Education) was issued. Page 9 included the sentence - \"You have a duty to make sure that your child goes to school until he or she is 16.\" EO members were concerned that this misinformation should be corrected as it was being delivered to every household.\n\nThey appointed solicitor Peter Liell who sent \"Letters Before Action\" notices to the Department for Education and to the Welsh Office. A reply by Eric Forth (9 July 1994) for the DfE claimed that the Parent's Charter could not be taken as a definitive guide to the law - the Charter \"cannot take in every exception or reflect all points of detail\". The department stated that there were no plans to issue a corrigendum. The Welsh Office response was a confirmation that the Charter for Parents in Wales had been revised and would reflect the fact that not all children were educated in schools.\n\nThe matter was raised by Don Foster in a Parliamentary Question which was responded to by Robin Squire stating that John Patten, the Secretary of State for Education, saw no need to issue a correction or to make a statement about the mistake.\n\nAs English and Welsh education law are identical there were no grounds for the variation in the responses of the two bodies. The solicitor notified the DfE that he had been instructed to prepare an application for leave to apply for judicial review of the decision as stated in Forth's letter. This threat caused an immediate response from the department that they \"would want to find a different - in your eyes more satisfactory - wording for any further editions\". The solicitor responded seeking confirmation, by 31 August 1994, that a future edition would include reference to the fact that children do not have to go to school. Forth once again responded accepting the need for a revised text: \"I am, however, happy to confirm, in the light of your client's concerns, our intention that any future edition of the Parent's Charter in England will include a reference, be it explicit or implicit, to a parent's lawful right to ensure that his child is suitably educated otherwise than at school.\"\n\nIt was felt that this was as far as EO could go with the matter and the application for judicial review was withdrawn. The whole process had cost EO almost £4,000 but had generated a lot of publicity and raised awareness of the issue as many members had raised their concerns with their own MP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29464291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29464291", "title": "En unión y libertad", "text": "En unión y libertad\n\nIt can be seen in all peso coins and banknotes currently in circulation.\n"}
{"id": "42315816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42315816", "title": "Europeana 1914-1918", "text": "Europeana 1914-1918\n\nEuropeana 1914–1918 is a major project to digitise and publish primary and secondary historical sources on the First World War. It is coordinated by Europeana, as part of a broader program to digitise European cultural heritage.\n\nThe collection is composed of three major elements. The first, also titled Europeana 1914–1918, gathers digitised memorabilia and personal stories from individuals, including a series of public workshops where material can be scanned or photographed. The second, Europeana Collections 1914–1918, is a coordinated digitisation program by ten major libraries across eight European countries. The third element, EFG1914, is a project to digitise a substantial number of wartime silent films through the European Film Gateway.\n\nThe Europeana 1914–1918 project was publicly announced in 2011, as \"Europeana Collections 1914–1918: Remembering the First World War\", with the goal of digitising over 400,000 source items from thirteen institutions. The original plan called for around 425,000 digitised items from the partner institutions. This would sit alongside 27,000 items (mostly photographs from the UK and France) already in Europeana, and include around 75,000 items already digitised but not yet added to Europeana. The focus was to be on \"special collections\" – manuscripts, artwork, rare books, maps, music, etc. – with the goal that most material provided would be rare or unique. Material would be hosted by the institutions but accessible through an aggregated service, and where possible copyright issues would be resolved to ensure maximal reusability of material.\n\nOverall, the project was anticipated to cost around 5.4 million euro, the bulk of which was due to 3.1 million euro in staffing costs at the partner institutions and 1 million in costs for sub-contracted digitisation. (The bulk of digitisation was carried out in-house.)\n\nMaterial from \"Collections\" was released to the Europeana site as it was digitised and uploaded, with the first collections (newspapers from Austria and photographs/magazines from Italy) released in March 2012. The first public events to showcase these digitised collections began in 2013, continuing through release in 2014.\n\nThe public \"Europeana 1914–18\" project opened for online submissions and began the first public roadshow events in March 2011. These events invited members of the public to bring physical artefacts or documents to be digitised, and to record information or stories connected to them. 51 sessions were run across Europe up to December 2013. The public initiative used the Community Collection Model founded by Stuart Lee and Kate Lindsay at the University of Oxford in 2008 and used for The Great War Archive. The University of Oxford was a partner in Europeana 1914–1918, providing support in the development of the online platform and training to all institutions running roadshow events.\n\nThe main public-facing portal for the overall project (europeana1914-18.eu) was launched at the Berlin State Library on 29 January 2014 by Monika Grütters, the German Federal Commissioner for Culture and Media. At the time of launch, the site had around 400,000 digitised items from the partner institutions, alongside 90,000 \"personal\" items and 660 hours of film.\n\nPublic reaction to the collections has often highlighted individual items or small collections. For example, digitised correspondence from the British Library's India Office collections has been used to highlight the involvement of Indian soldiers, particularly on the Western Front; An early find during the public digitisation project was a postcard (\"right\") sent by Adolf Hitler to a fellow soldier while recuperating in hospital, which attracted a great deal of media attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "54265040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54265040", "title": "First Nations and Endangered Languages Program", "text": "First Nations and Endangered Languages Program\n\nThe First Nations Endangered and Endangered Languages Program (FNEL, formerly known as the First Nations Languages Program, FNLG) was initiated in 1996 as part of University of British Columbia’s ongoing commitment to community-based collaboration with First Nations peoples, in recognition of the profound importance of First Nations languages, and the rich cultural traditions they represent. FNEL and UBC’s Vancouver Campus is located on the traditional, ancestral, and unceded territory of the hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓-speaking Musqueam people. \n\nIn 1997, a partnership was initiated between the First Nations Languages Program and the Musqueam Indian Band to promote the development and use of hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓, Musqueam’s traditional language, through collaborative research initiatives. \n\nThe program regularly offers university-level language courses in hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓ at beginner, intermediate, and advanced levels. FNEL students have benefited from various other First Nations languages, including Cree (Plains Algonquian) Kwak̓wala (Northern Wakashan), Nɬe’kepmxcin (Northern Interior Salish), Dakelh Dene (Carrier Athapaskan), Dene Zāge’ (Kaska Athabaskan) and Nuu-chah-nulth (Southern Wakashan). FNEL methodology courses explore the processes and protocols for the documentation, conservation, revitalization, and reclamation of endangered languages, cultures, and Indigenous knowledge systems locally, regionally and internationally. \n\nThe \"First Nations Unicode Font\" was developed by the UBC FNEL Program under the auspices of a UBC Teaching and Learning Enhancement Fund (TLEF), and is accessible to anyone with the aim of promoting documentation and literacy in First Nations languages.\n"}
{"id": "35114850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35114850", "title": "Flores de otro mundo", "text": "Flores de otro mundo\n\nFlores de otro mundo () is a 1999 Spanish film, written and directed by Icíar Bollaín and starring José Sancho, Luis Tosar and Lisete Mejía. The plot follows three women who arrive to a village in rural Spain looking for love and to start a new life. Very well received, the film won the International Critics' Week Grand Prix award at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nA group of women arrive by bus to a small town in the depopulated central Province of Guadalajara, where there is a scarcity of single women and economic opportunities. The men have organized an annual party to get to know available ladies with the hopes of falling in love and finding a wife. Women hope to find stability, companionship, immigration papers or a combination of the three.\n\nThe group of women include: Marirrosi, a divorced nurse from Bilbao who is lonely and looking for love; Patricia, a young woman with two children from the Dominican Republic who has been in Spain illegally and having difficulties to find decent work; and (joining later) Milady, a young Cuban who wants to see the world at any cost. They come to the town filled with eager men but not lots of opportunities other than farming. Patricia settles with Damian, a hardworking farmer who lives with his mother, Gregoria. Looking to find stability for her young children and a hard worker herself, Patricia tries in vain to find common ground with her stern mother-in-law, who seems to reject her because of her skin color and the fact that her son is no longer under her control. Patricia, with more time and experience in Spain, befriends the newcomer Milady. Milady settles with Carmelo an older Spanish man who wooed her in Havana. Carmelo tries to impress her with a big television and modern kitchen, but what she really wants to do is go to discos and have fun. She is in no way ready to settle down. Her dream of a life in Europe is very different from his fantasy of life with a gorgeous young wife. Milady is flirty and does not love Carmelo. Wanting to see the sea in Valencia, she takes a ride from a truck driver. When she comes back to town, the jealous Carmelo gives her a beating. Milady wishes she could leave him, but she has few friends and no real place to go.\n\nMarirrosi, the oldest of the three women, has a grown up son and is tired of her job in Bilbao. She finds love with Alfonso, a gentle soft-spoken gardener. However, she is unwilling to give up city life for fields and cows, while he is unwilling to even consider living in a city. Unable to resolve their differences, she eventually breaks up with him.\n\nAt the farm, Patricia receives the visit of some of her friends and this creates confrontation with Gregoria, but Damian comes to Patricia’s defense and the relation between the two women improves. However the father of Patricia’s two children reappears in her life wanting to take advantage of her steadier situation. In a frank talk with Damian, Patricia admits that if she could have found work and been able to take care for herself either in the Dominican Republic or Spain, she probably wouldn't have married him. But now that she is there, she realizes that she wants to be his companion and stable love. Damian and Patricia have an argument after her honest revelation. He believes that she is taking advantage of him and he tells her to leave with her children. At the last minute, persuaded by his mother, Damian stops them from leaving and he and Patricia reconcile. Later on, we see Patricia’s daughter making her first communion in the local church.\n\nMilady captures the attention of Oscar, a young man infatuated with her. He helps her escape the town but in a stop in a hotel she also leaves him, taking the road on her own. Carmelo deals alone with his disappointment of Milady’s sudden departure.\n\nAlfonso is devastated when he receives Marirrosi’s letter breaking up with him. At the village’s bar Alfonso gives some advice to the local single men. Another bus, full of hopeful single women, is arriving in town.\n\n\nThe film was inspired by Spanish country bachelors, such as those from Plan, who organized parties to attract marriable women from cities, since rural women tended to emigrate to the cities.\nThese \"caravans of women\" took inspiration from the Western \"Westward the Women\".\n\n\"Flores de otro mundo\" (\"flowers from another world\") was released on DVD in the United States on October 18, 2005. The film is in Spanish with English subtitles. There are no extras features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37853824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853824", "title": "Hermuthruda", "text": "Hermuthruda\n\nHermuthruda, Hermutrude (Old English: Eormenthryth) was a figure in Scandinavian romance.\n\nThe chief authority for the legend of Hermuthruda is the Danish chronicle Gesta Danorum by Saxo Grammaticus. Described as \"the wild queen of Scotland\", she became the wife of Wihtlaeg or Vigletus and is described as a Wicked Queen type of character such as found in a variety of fiction.\n\nIn the chronicle, Amlethus (Hamlet) is sent to court Hermuthruda by the King of England. However the queen had a reputation for killing all suitors, Saxo saying \"in the cruelty of her arrogance she had always loathed her wooers, and inflicted upon them the supreme punishment, so that out of many there was not one but paid for his boldness with his head\". Hermuthruda takes a liking to Amlethus after stealing his shield and learning of his past. The couple are married until a battle with Wihtlaeg, before which Hermuthruda promises Amlethus her undying love for him, and that she will never marry another. After Wihtlaeg is victorious, Hermuthruda switches sides and immediately marries him in a display of inconsistency that leads to her becoming the \"ancestress of Offa\".\n\n"}
{"id": "855209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855209", "title": "Hope Cooke", "text": "Hope Cooke\n\nHope Cooke (born June 24, 1940) is an American who was the \"Gyalmo\" () (Queen Consort) of the 12th Chogyal (King) of Sikkim, Palden Thondup Namgyal. Their wedding took place in March 1963. She was termed \"Her Highness The Crown Princess of Sikkim\" and became the \"Gyalmo of Sikkim\" at Palden Thondup Namgyal's coronation in 1965.\n\nPalden Thondup Namgyal was to be the last king of Sikkim as a protectorate state under India. By 1973, both the country and their marriage were crumbling; soon Sikkim was annexed by India. Five months after the takeover of Sikkim had begun, Cooke returned to the United States with her two children and stepdaughter to enroll them in schools in New York City. Cooke and her husband divorced in 1980; Namgyal died of cancer in 1982.\n\nCooke wrote an autobiography, \"Time Change\" (Simon & Schuster 1981) and began a career as a lecturer, book critic, and magazine contributor, later becoming an urban historian. In her new life as a student of New York City, Cooke published \"Seeing New York\" (Temple University Press 1995); worked as a newspaper columnist (\"Daily News\"); and taught at Yale University, Sarah Lawrence College, and Birch Wathen, a New York City private school.\n\nCooke was born in San Francisco to an Irish-American father, John J. Cooke, a flight instructor, and Hope Noyes, an amateur pilot. She was raised in the Episcopal Church. Her mother, Hope Noyes, died in January 1942 at age 25 when the plane she was flying solo crashed.\n\nAfter her mother's death, Cooke and her half-sister, Harriet Townsend, moved to a New York City apartment across the hall from their maternal grandparents, Helen (Humpstone) and Winchester Noyes, the president of J.H. Winchester & Co., an international shipping brokerage firm. They were raised by a succession of governesses. Her grandfather died when she was 12, her grandmother, three years later. Cooke became the ward of her aunt and uncle, Mary Paul (Noyes) and Selden Chapin, a former US Ambassador to Iran and Peru. She studied at the Chapin School in New York and attended the Madeira School for three years before finishing high school in Iran.\n\nIn 1959 Cooke was a freshman majoring in Asian Studies at Sarah Lawrence College and sharing an apartment with actress Jane Alexander. She went on a summer trip to India and met Palden Thondup Namgyal, Crown Prince of Sikkim, in the lounge of the Windamere Hotel in Darjeeling, India. He was a recent widower with two sons and a daughter and, at age 36, nearly twice her age. They were drawn to each other by the similar isolation of their childhoods. Two years later, in 1961, their engagement was announced, but the wedding was put off for more than a year because astrologers in both Sikkim and India warned that 1962 was an inauspicious year for marriages.\n\nOn March 20, 1963, Cooke married Namgyal in a Buddhist monastery in a ceremony performed by fourteen lamas. Wedding guests included members of Indian royalty, Indian and Sikkimese generals, and the U.S. Ambassador to India, John Kenneth Galbraith. Cooke renounced her United States citizenship as required by Sikkim's laws and also as a demonstration to the people of Sikkim that she was not an \"American arm\" in the Himalayas. She was dropped from the Social Register but the marriage was reported in \"National Geographic\" magazine. \"The New Yorker\" followed the royal couple on one of their yearly trips to America. Although her husband was Buddhist, Cooke did not officially convert from Christianity to Buddhism though she had practiced Buddhism from an early age on (as Henry Kissinger once remarked \"she has become more Buddhist than the population\"). Namgyal was crowned monarch of Sikkim on April4, 1965. However, their marriage faced strains, and both had affairs, he with a married Belgian woman, and she with an American friend.\nAt the same time, Sikkim was under strain due to annexation pressures from India. Crowds marched on the palace against the monarchy. Cooke's husband was deposed on April10, 1975 and confined to his palace under house arrest. The couple soon separated. Cooke returned to Manhattan, where she raised her children, Palden and Hope Leezum. In May 1975 Representative James W. Symington (D-MO) and Senator Mike Mansfield (D-MT) sponsored private bills to restore her citizenship; however, after the bill passed the Senate, several members of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration objected, and the bill had to be amended to grant her only U.S. permanent resident status before it could gain their support and pass Congress. President Gerald Ford signed the bill into law on June16, 1976. By 1981 she still had not been able to regain U.S. citizenship. The royal couple divorced in 1980, and Namgyal died of cancer in 1982 in New York City.\n\nWith child support from Namgyal and an inheritance from her grandparents, she rented an apartment in Yorkville, Manhattan. This time around, she felt \"profoundly displaced\" in the city and started going on walking tours and then creating her own. She studied Dutch journals, old church sermons, and newspaper articles to acquaint herself with the city and lectured on the social history of New York. She wrote a weekly column, \"Undiscovered Manhattan\", for \"The Daily News\". Her books include an award-winning memoir of her life in Sikkim, \"Time Change: An Autobiography\" (1981), an off-the-beaten-path guide to New York, \"Seeing New York\", developed from her walking tours, and, with Jacques d'Amboise, she published \"Teaching the Magic of Dance\".\n\nCooke remarried in 1983 to Mike Wallace, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian and Distinguished Professor of History at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. They later divorced. Hope Cooke's son, Prince Palden, a New York banker and financial advisor, married Kesang Deki Tashi and has a son and three daughters. Cooke's daughter, Princess Hope, graduated from Milton Academy and Georgetown University, and married (and later divorced) Thomas Gwyn Reich, Jr., a U.S. Foreign Service officer; she later remarried, to Yep Wangyal Tobden. \n\nHope Cooke lived in London for a few years before returning to the United States, where she now lives in Brooklyn and currently works as a writer, historian, and lecturer. She was a consultant for PBS's \"\" (1999–2001). Cooke is a regular contributor to book reviews and magazines and also lectures widely.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7069059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7069059", "title": "Interbay P-Patch", "text": "Interbay P-Patch\n\nInterbay P-Patch, \"The Garden Between The Bays\", is one of Seattle, Washington's largest and most involved community gardens, and is recognized as an example of resourcefulness and sustainability.\n\nCity residents may rent up to of space in the garden from the city annually. Gardeners may grow whatever they wish except for trees or large bushes and the produce from each plot remains the property of the gardener. Over of garden space along the fences are dedicated to food bank gardening, which traditionally furnishes about two tons of produce to community food banks each year. The east side of the garden features an orchard of plum, pear, and apple trees, many of which gardeners moved from the previous garden location. Honey bee hives are nestled in a secure enclosure near the back of the garden.\n\nGardeners originally established the garden in 1974 as one of the earliest P-Patch locations in the city. First located on landfill that is now the northwest corner of the Interbay Family Golf Center's driving range, the garden has moved twice. Since the spring of 1997 it has been at its current site extending north of Wheeler Street along 15th Avenue West.\n\nFinding a permanent home for the Interbay P-Patch was a long and difficult process. In 1980 the Seattle City Council passed a resolution that guaranteed an acre for community gardening on the Interbay landfill. In 1992, however, with gardens established for 18 years, Interbay P-Patch gardeners had to move the P-Patch to the northeast corner of the landfill to make way for a proposed golf course. The soil in the new location was heavy with clay and lacked humus. Gardeners labored to build the soil. Garden volunteers used money from a Neighborhood Matching Grant to build the first tool shed and compost bins. Gardeners also added the food bank area, and built raised beds.\n\nFour years later, in 1996, the city announced new plans for a golf course. Gardeners feared the Interbay P-Patch was doomed. But with the 1980 resolution still in force and broad public support, Interbay P-Patch survived. The City Council adopted a new resolution allocating funding to move the Interbay P-Patch and ensure garden plots equal to or better than the existing gardens. The resolution guaranteed gardeners of soil, and raised beds.\n\nBecause the new soil was without life, Interbay again began serious composting and soil building efforts. In addition to recycling the garden's plant material, grass clippings from local landscapers who do not use pesticides or herbicides, and leaf deliveries from the city Street and Parks Departments are recycled to make tons of organic compost.\n\nRecycling is a part of the garden's culture. The main north-south walkway is made from recycled pavers from Alki Beach, and the main walkway includes granite pavers from South Africa that did not meet the standards for Westlake Mall.\n\nThe Rowe family donated the greenhouse to the garden in 2000, and in 2003 the city donated the arbor entrances, which previously served as security enclosures for portable public toilets. Interbay gardeners donated a memorial bench at the north arbor entrance in honor of Claire \"Pappy\" Watkins, Interbay's late \"King of Compost\".\n\nRay Schutte designed and built the cobblestone entrance walkway and planter in 2006 from cobblestones first used as ballast in ships before their installation at Seattle's Occidental Park. When the city redesigned the park, Interbay P-Patch was fortunate enough to receive these cobblestones.\n\nThe aluminum flag pole was one of the original 50 poles placed in front of the 1962 World's Fair Flag Pavilion.\n\n\"CAST design/build\" designed Interbay's award-winning tool shed/library/kitchen, completed in 2002. The shed and surrounding open space are the focal point for many community events, including Friday night potlucks, Saturday lunches, a New Year's Day celebration, and several garden fundraisers each year. CAST design/build also designed the kiosk, added in 2004. Lease Crutcher Lewis donated materials, and a grant from Starbucks helped pay for the kiosk. Gardener and facilities Coordinator Bruce Swee designed the kiosk's water feature to honor long-time Interbay gardeners Anne and Mac Magruder, who planted the grape arbor.\n\nThe \"Gathering Bell\" at the edge of the garden's plaza was given to Airgas Nor Pac as thanks for its financial support of cystic fibrosis cure research. Airgas wished to share this with the community and decided to donate it to the Interbay P-Patch in 2006.\n\nBruce Swee designed the Interbay P-Patch flag donated to the garden by John and Vickie Bjorkman in 2005. Garden fundraising events also funded Bruce Swee's design and construction of the steel gates on the chipper/shredder storage shed in 2007.\n\nVolunteers who garden at Interbay built and maintain the structures and community areas at the garden. The gardening community welcomes visitors to enjoy their garden and social events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2009247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009247", "title": "Judeo-Marathi", "text": "Judeo-Marathi\n\nJudeo-Marathi (Marathi: जुदाव मराठी) is a form of Marathi spoken by the Bene Israel, a Jewish ethnic group that developed a unique identity in India and in Pakistan. Judæo-Marathi is, like other Marathi, written in the Devanagari script. It may not be sufficiently different from Marathi as to constitute a distinct language, although it is characterized by a number of loanwords from Hebrew and Aramaic as a result of influence from the Cochin Jewish community, Judæo-Malayalam and Portuguese and also some influence from the Urdu language.\n\nThe Judæo-Marathi community mainly resides in Raigad and Thane districts and the city of Mumbai in Maharashtra. The majority of its members have emigrated to Israel, and most of the rest live in England and Canada. Recently, a rare Marathi-Hebrew text titled \"Poona Haggadah\", was found in Manchester. The 137-year-old book, which was used by the Bene-Israel community, was discovered by a University of Manchester historian, Yaakov Wise.\n\n"}
{"id": "38905188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38905188", "title": "Jurubaça", "text": "Jurubaça\n\nJurubaça was a term for interpreter in the Portuguese colonies of Southeast Asian and the Far East, particularly in Macau. The term is prevalent in mid-sixteenth through eighteenth-century documents. According to the \"Grande Dicionário da Língua Portuguesa\", a Jurubaça was an “Antigo intérprete da Malásia e do Extremo Oriente,” an ancient interpreter in Malaysia and the Far East. The word derives from Malay jurubassa (juru bahasa) which translates as a person who is an interpreter. The earliest document utilizing the word iurubaças dates from the sixteenth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28474879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28474879", "title": "Kamakã languages", "text": "Kamakã languages\n\nThe Kamakã languages are a small family of extinct Macro-Jê languages of Bahía near Brazil's Atlantic coast. The attested Kamakã languages are:\n\n"}
{"id": "5823212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5823212", "title": "Late Bronze Age collapse", "text": "Late Bronze Age collapse\n\nThe Late Bronze Age collapse involved a dark-age transition period in the Near East, Asia Minor, Aegean region, North Africa, Caucasus, Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean from the Late Bronze Age to the Early Iron Age, a transition which historians believe was violent, sudden, and culturally disruptive. The palace economy of the Aegean region and Anatolia that characterised the Late Bronze Age disintegrated, transforming into the small isolated village cultures of the Greek Dark Ages. The half-century between and 1150 BC saw the cultural collapse of the Mycenaean kingdoms, of the Kassite dynasty of Babylonia, of the Hittite Empire in Anatolia and the Levant, and of the Egyptian Empire; the destruction of Ugarit and the Amorite states in the Levant, the fragmentation of the Luwian states of western Asia Minor, and a period of chaos in Canaan. The deterioration of these governments interrupted trade routes and severely reduced literacy in much of the known world. In the first phase of this period, almost every city between Pylos and Gaza was violently destroyed, and many abandoned, including Hattusa, Mycenae, and Ugarit. According to Robert Drews: \n\nWithin a period of forty to fifty years at the end of the thirteenth and the beginning of the twelfth century almost every significant city in the eastern Mediterranean world was destroyed, many of them never to be occupied again.\nA very few powerful states, particularly Assyria and Elam, survived the Bronze Age collapse – but by the end of the 12th century BC, Elam waned after its defeat by Nebuchadnezzar I, who briefly revived Babylonian fortunes before suffering a series of defeats by the Assyrians. Upon the death of Ashur-bel-kala in 1056 BC, Assyria went into a comparative decline for the next 100 or so years, its empire shrinking significantly. By 1020 BC Assyria appears to have controlled only the areas in its immediate vicinity; the well-defended Assyria itself was not threatened during the collapse. Gradually, by the end of the ensuing Dark Age, remnants of the Hittites coalesced into small Neo-Hittite and Syro-Hittite states in Cilicia and the Levant, the latter states being composed of mixed Hittite and Aramean polities. Beginning in the mid-10th century BC, a series of small Aramaean kingdoms formed in the Levant and the Philistines settled in southern Canaan where the Canaanite-speaking Semites had coalesced into a number of defined polities such as Israel, Moab, Edom and Ammon. From 935 BC Assyria began to reorganise and once more expand outwards, leading to the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911-605 BC), which came to control a vast area from the Caucasus to Egypt, and from Greek Cyprus to Persia. Phrygians, Cimmerians and Lydians arrived in Asia Minor, and a new Hurrian polity of Urartu formed in eastern Asia Minor and the southern Caucasus, where the Colchians (Georgians) also emerged. Iranian peoples such as the Persians, Medes, Parthians and Sargatians first appeared in Ancient Iran soon after 1000 BC, displacing earlier non-Indo-European Kassites, Hurrians and Gutians in the northwest of the region, although the indigenous language isolate-speaking Elamites and Manneans continued to dominate the southwest and Caspian Sea regions respectively. After the Orientalising period in the Aegean, Classical Greece emerged.\n\nBefore the Bronze Age collapse, Anatolia (Asia Minor) was dominated by a number of peoples of varying ethno-linguistic origins: including Semitic Assyrians and Amorites, language isolate-speaking Hurrians, Kaskians and Hattians, and later-arriving Indo-European peoples such as Luwians, Hittites, Mitanni, and Mycenaean Greeks. From the 16th century BC, the Mitanni (a migratory minority speaking an Indo-Aryan language) formed a ruling class over the Hurrians, an ancient indigenous Caucasian people who spoke a Hurro-Urartian language, a language isolate. Similarly, the Indo-Anatolian-speaking Hittites absorbed the Hattians, a people speaking a language that may have been of the non–Indo-European North Caucasian language group or a language isolate.\n\nEvery Anatolian site, apart from integral Assyrian regions in the south east, and regions in eastern, central and southern Anatolia under the control of the powerful Middle Assyrian Empire (1392–1050 BC) that was important during the preceding Late Bronze Age shows a destruction layer, and it appears that in these regions civilization did not recover to the level of the Assyrians and Hittites for another thousand years or so. The Hittites, already weakened by a series of military defeats and annexations of their territory by the Middle Assyrian Empire (which had already destroyed the Hurrian-Mitanni Empire) then suffered a coup de grâce when Hattusas, the Hittite capital, was burned, probably by the language isolate-speaking Kaskians, long indigenous to the southern shores of the Black Sea, and possibly aided by the incoming Indo-European–speaking Phrygians). The city was abandoned and never reoccupied.\n\nKaraoğlan (near present-day Ankara) was burned and the corpses left unburied. Many other sites that were not destroyed were abandoned. The Luwian city of Troy was destroyed at least twice, before being abandoned until Roman times. (Trojan War)\n\nThe Phrygians had arrived (probably over the Bosphorus or Caucasus) in the 13th century BC, before being first checked by the Assyrians and then conquered by them in the Early Iron Age of the 12th century BC. Other groups of Indo-European peoples followed the Phrygians into the region, most prominently the Doric Greeks and Lydians, and in the centuries \"after\" the period of Bronze Age Collapse, the Cimmerians, and Scythians also appeared. The Semitic Arameans, Kartvelian-speaking Colchians (Georgians), and revived Hurrian polities, particularly Urartu, Nairi and Shupria also emerged in parts of the region and southern Caucasus. The Assyrians simply continued their already extant policies, by conquering any of these new peoples and polities they came into contact with, as they had with the preceding polities of the region. However Assyria gradually withdrew from much of the region for a time in the second half of the 11th century BC, although they continued to campaign militarily at times, in order to protect their borders and keep trade routes open, until a renewed vigorous period of expansion in the late 10th century BC.\n\nThese sites in Anatolia show evidence of the collapse:\n\nThe catastrophe separates Late Cypriot II (LCII) from the LCIII period, with the sacking and burning of Enkomi, Kition, and Sinda, which may have occurred twice before those sites were abandoned. During the reign of the Hittite king Tudhaliya IV (reigned c. 1237–1209 BC), the island was briefly invaded by the Hittites, either to secure the copper resource or as a way of preventing piracy.\n\nShortly afterwards, the island was reconquered by his son around 1200 BC. Some towns (Enkomi, Kition, Palaeokastro and Sinda) show traces of destruction at the end of LCII. Whether or not this is really an indication of a Mycenean invasion is contested. Originally, two waves of destruction in c. 1230 BC by the Sea Peoples and c. 1190 BC by Aegean refugees have been proposed.\n\nAlashiya was plundered by the Sea Peoples and ceased to exist in 1085.\n\nThe smaller settlements of Ayios Dhimitrios and Kokkinokremnos, as well as a number of other sites, were abandoned but do not show traces of destruction. Kokkinokremos was a short-lived settlement, where various caches concealed by smiths have been found. That no one ever returned to reclaim the treasures suggests that they were killed or enslaved. Recovery occurred only in the Early Iron Age with Phoenician and Greek settlement. \n\nThese sites in Cyprus show evidence of the collapse:\n\nAncient Syria had been initially dominated by a number of indigenous Semitic-speaking peoples. The East Semitic-speaking Eblaites, Akkadians and Assyrians and the Northwest Semitic-speaking Ugarites and Amorites prominent among them. Syria during this time was known as \"The land of the Amurru\".\n\nBefore and during the Bronze Age Collapse, Syria became a battle ground between the empires of the Hittites, Assyrians, Mitanni and Egyptians between the 15th and late 13th centuries BC, with the Assyrians destroying the Hurri-Mitanni empire and annexing much of the Hittite empire. The Egyptian empire had withdrawn from the region after failing to overcome the Hittites and being fearful of the ever growing Assyrian might, leaving much of the region under Assyrian control until the late 11th century BC. Later the coastal regions came under attack from the Sea Peoples. During this period, from the 12th century BC, the incoming Northwest Semitic-speaking Arameans came to demographic prominence in Syria, the region outside of the Canaanite-speaking Phoenician coastal areas eventually came to speak Aramaic and the region came to be known as Aramea and Eber Nari. The Babylonians belatedly attempted to gain a foothold in the region during their brief revival under Nebuchadnezzar I in the 12th century BC, however they too were overcome by their Assyrian neighbours. The modern term 'Syria' is a later Indo-European corruption of 'Assyria' which only became formally applied to the Levant during the Seleucid Empire (323–150 BC) (see Etymology of Syria).\n\nLevantine sites previously showed evidence of trade links with Mesopotamia (Sumer, Akkad, Assyria and Babylonia), Anatolia (Hattia, Hurria, Luwia and later the Hittites), Egypt and the Aegean in the Late Bronze Age. Evidence at Ugarit shows that the destruction there occurred after the reign of Merneptah (ruled 1213–1203 BC) and even the fall of Chancellor Bay (died 1192 BC). The last Bronze Age king of the Semitic state of Ugarit, Ammurapi, was a contemporary of the Hittite king Suppiluliuma II. The exact dates of his reign are unknown.\n\nA letter by the king is preserved on one of the clay tablets found baked in the conflagration of the destruction of the city. Ammurapi stresses the seriousness of the crisis faced by many Levantine states from invasion by the advancing Sea Peoples in a dramatic response to a plea for assistance from the king of Alasiya. Ammurapi highlights the desperate situation Ugarit faced in letter RS 18.147:\n\nMy father, behold, the enemy's ships came (here); my cities(?) were burned, and they did evil things in my country. Does not my father know that all my troops and chariots(?) are in the Land of Hatti, and all my ships are in the Land of Lukka?... Thus, the country is abandoned to itself. May my father know it: the seven ships of the enemy that came here inflicted much damage upon us.\n\nNo help arrived and Ugarit was burned to the ground at the end of the Bronze Age. Its destruction levels contained Late Helladic IIIB ware, but no LH IIIC (see Mycenaean period). Therefore, the date of the destruction is important for the dating of the LH IIIC phase. Since an Egyptian sword bearing the name of Pharaoh Merneptah was found in the destruction levels, 1190 BC was taken as the date for the beginning of the LH IIIC.\n\nA cuneiform tablet found in 1986 shows that Ugarit was destroyed after the death of Merneptah. It is generally agreed that Ugarit had already been destroyed by the 8th year of Ramesses III, 1178 BC. These letters on clay tablets found baked in the conflagration of the destruction of the city speak of attack from the sea, and a letter from Alashiya (Cyprus) speaks of cities already being destroyed by attackers who came by sea. It also speaks of the Ugarit fleet being absent, patrolling the Lycian coast.\n\nThe West Semitic Arameans eventually superseded the earlier Semitic Amorites, Canaanites and people of Ugarit. The Arameans, together with the Phoenician Canaanites and Neo-Hittites came to dominate most of the region demographically, however these people, and the Levant in general, were also conquered and dominated politically and militarily by the Middle Assyrian Empire until Assyria's withdrawal in the late 11th century BC, although the Assyrians continued to conduct military campaigns in the region. However with the rise of Neo Assyrian Empire in the late 10th century BC, the entire region once again fell to Assyria. \n\nThese sites in Syria show evidence of the collapse:\n\nEgyptian evidence shows that from the reign of Horemheb (ruled either 1319 or 1306 to 1292 BC), wandering Shasu were more problematic than the earlier Apiru. Ramesses II (ruled 1279–1213 BC) campaigned against them, pursuing them as far as Moab, where he established a fortress, after a near defeat at the Battle of Kadesh. During the reign of Merneptah, the Shasu threatened the \"Way of Horus\" north from Gaza. Evidence shows that Deir Alla (Succoth) was destroyed after the reign of Queen Twosret (ruled 1191–1189 BC).\n\nThe destroyed site of Lachish was briefly reoccupied by squatters and an Egyptian garrison, during the reign of Ramesses III (ruled 1186–1155 BC). All centres along a coastal route from Gaza northward were destroyed, and evidence shows Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Akko, and Jaffa were burned and not reoccupied for up to thirty years. Inland Hazor, Bethel, Beit Shemesh, Eglon, Debir, and other sites were destroyed. Refugees escaping the collapse of coastal centres may have fused with incoming nomadic and Anatolian elements to begin the growth of terraced hillside hamlets in the highlands region that was associated with the later development of the Hebrews.\n\nDuring the reign of Rameses III, Philistines were allowed to resettle the coastal strip from Gaza to Joppa, Denyen (possibly the tribe of Dan in the Bible, or more likely the people of Adana, also known as Danuna, part of the Hittite Empire) settled from Joppa to Acre, and Tjekker in Acre. The sites quickly achieved independence, as the \"Tale of Wenamun\" shows. \n\nThese sites in Southern Levant show evidence of the collapse:\n\nNone of the Mycenaean palaces of the Late Bronze Age survived (with the possible exception of the Cyclopean fortifications on the Acropolis of Athens), with destruction being heaviest at palaces and fortified sites. Up to 90% of small sites in the Peloponnese were abandoned, suggesting a major depopulation.\n\nThe Bronze Age collapse marked the start of what has been called the Greek Dark Ages, which lasted roughly 400 years and ended with the establishment of Archaic Greece. Other cities like Athens continued to be occupied, but with a more local sphere of influence, limited evidence of trade and an impoverished culture, from which it took centuries to recover. \n\nThese sites in Greece show evidence of the collapse:\n\nThe Middle Assyrian Empire (1392–1056 BC) had destroyed the Hurrian-Mitanni Empire, annexed much of the Hittite Empire and eclipsed the Egyptian Empire, and at the beginning of the Late Bronze Age collapse controlled an empire stretching from the Caucasus mountains in the north to the Arabian peninsula in the south, and from Ancient Iran in the east to Cyprus in the west. However, in the 12th century BC, Assyrian satrapies in Anatolia came under attack from the Mushki (Phrygians), and those in the Levant from Arameans, but Tiglath-Pileser I (reigned 1114–1076 BC) was able to defeat and repel these attacks, conquering the incomers. The Middle Assyrian Empire survived intact throughout much of this period, with Assyria dominating and often ruling Babylonia directly, controlling south east and south western Anatolia, north western Iran and much of northern and central Syria and Canaan, as far as the Mediterranean and Cyprus.\n\nThe Arameans and Phrygians were subjected, and Assyria and its colonies were not threatened by the Sea Peoples who had ravaged Egypt and much of the East Mediterranean, and the Assyrians often conquered as far as Phoenicia and the East Mediterranean. However, after the death of Ashur-bel-kala in 1056 BC, Assyria withdrew to areas close to its natural borders, encompassing what is today northern Iraq, north east Syria, the fringes of north west Iran, and south eastern Turkey. Assyria still retained a stable monarchy, the best army in the world, and an efficient civil administration, enabling it to survive the Bronze Age Collapse intact. Assyrian written records remained numerous and the most consistent in the world during the period, and the Assyrians were still able to mount long range military campaigns in all directions when necessary. From the late 10th century BC, it once more began to assert itself internationally, with the Neo-Assyrian Empire growing to be the largest the world had yet seen.\n\nThe situation in Babylonia was very different. After the Assyrian withdrawal, it was still subject to periodic Assyrian (and Elamite) subjugation, and new groups of Semites, such as the Aramaeans, Suteans (and in the period after the Bronze Age Collapse, Chaldeans also), spread unchecked into Babylonia from the Levant, and the power of its weak kings barely extended beyond the city limits of Babylon. Babylon was sacked by the Elamites under Shutruk-Nahhunte (c. 1185–1155 BC), and lost control of the Diyala River valley to Assyria.\n\nAfter apparently surviving for a while, the Egyptian Empire collapsed in the mid-twelfth century BC (during the reign of Ramesses VI, 1145 to 1137 BC). Previously, the Merneptah Stele (c. 1200 BC) spoke of attacks () from Putrians (from modern Libya), with associated people of Ekwesh, Shekelesh, Lukka, Shardana and Tursha or Teresh (possibly Troas), and a Canaanite revolt, in the cities of Ashkelon, Yenoam and among the people of Israel. A second attack (Battle of the Delta and Battle of Djahy) during the reign of Ramesses III (1186–1155 BC) involved Peleset, Tjeker, Shardana and Denyen.\n\nRobert Drews describes the collapse as \"the worst disaster in ancient history, even more calamitous than the collapse of the Western Roman Empire.\" Cultural memories of the disaster told of a \"lost golden age\": for example, Hesiod spoke of Ages of Gold, Silver, and Bronze, separated from the cruel modern Age of Iron by the Age of Heroes. Rodney Castledon suggests that memories of the Bronze Age collapse influenced Plato's story of Atlantis in Timaeus and the Critias.\n\nVarious theories have been put forward as possible contributors to the collapse, many of them mutually compatible.\n\nChanges in climate similar to the Younger Dryas period or the Little Ice Age punctuate human history. The local effects of these changes may cause crop failures in multiple consecutive years, leading to warfare as a last-ditch effort at survival. The triggers for climate change are still debated, but ancient peoples could not have predicted substantial climate changes.\n\nThe Hekla 3 eruption approximately coincides with this period; and, while the exact date is under considerable dispute, one group calculated the date to be specifically 1159 BC, implicating the eruption in the collapse in Egypt.\n\nUsing the Palmer Drought Index for 35 Greek, Turkish and Middle Eastern weather stations, it was shown that a drought of the kind that persisted from January AD 1972 would have affected all of the sites associated with the Late Bronze Age collapse. Drought could have easily precipitated or hastened socioeconomic problems and led to wars.\n\nMore recently, it has been shown how the diversion of midwinter storms from the Atlantic to north of the Pyrenees and the Alps, bringing wetter conditions to Central Europe but drought to the Eastern Mediterranean, was associated with the Late Bronze Age collapse.\n\nPollen in sediment cores from the Dead Sea and the Sea of Galilee show that there was a period of severe drought at the start of the collapse.\n\nThe Bronze Age collapse may be seen in the context of a technological history that saw the slow, comparatively continuous spread of ironworking technology in the region, beginning with precocious iron-working in the present Bulgaria and Romania in the 13th and 12th centuries BC.\n\nLeonard R. Palmer suggested that iron, superior to bronze for weapons manufacture, was in more plentiful supply and so allowed larger armies of iron users to overwhelm the smaller bronze-equipped armies of maryannu chariotry.\n\nRobert Drews argues for the appearance of massed infantry, using newly developed weapons and armor, such as cast rather than forged spearheads and long swords, a revolutionising cut-and-thrust weapon, and javelins. The appearance of bronze foundries suggests \"that mass production of bronze artifacts was suddenly important in the Aegean\". For example, Homer uses \"spears\" as a virtual synonym for \"warriors\".\n\nSuch new weaponry, in the hands of large numbers of \"running skirmishers\", who could swarm and cut down a chariot army, would destabilize states that were based upon the use of chariots by the ruling class. That would precipitate an abrupt social collapse as raiders began to conquer, loot and burn cities.\n\nA general systems collapse has been put forward as an explanation for the reversals in culture that occurred between the Urnfield culture of the 12th and 13th centuries BC and the rise of the Celtic Hallstatt culture in the 9th and 10th centuries BC. General systems collapse theory, pioneered by Joseph Tainter, hypothesises how social declines in response to complexity may lead to a collapse resulting in simpler forms of society.\n\nIn the specific context of the Middle East, a variety of factors – including population growth, soil degradation, drought, cast bronze weapon and iron production technologies – could have combined to push the relative price of weaponry (compared to arable land) to a level unsustainable for traditional warrior aristocracies. In complex societies that were increasingly fragile and less resilient, the combination of factors may have contributed to the collapse.\n\nThe growing complexity and specialization of the Late Bronze Age political, economic, and social organization in Carol Thomas and Craig Conant's phrase together made the organization of civilization too intricate to reestablish piecewise when disrupted. That could explain why the collapse was so widespread and able to render the Bronze Age civilizations incapable of recovery. The critical flaws of the Late Bronze Age are its centralisation, specialisation, complexity, and top-heavy political structure. These flaws then were exposed by sociopolitical events (revolt of peasantry and defection of mercenaries), fragility of all kingdoms (Mycenaean, Hittite, Ugaritic, and Egyptian), demographic crises (overpopulation), and wars between states. Other factors that could have placed increasing pressure on the fragile kingdoms include piracy by the Sea Peoples interrupting maritime trade, as well as drought, crop failure, famine, or the Dorian migration or invasion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44744172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44744172", "title": "List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe", "text": "List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe\n\nThis is a List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe originally started as an initiative within the framework of the Astronet EU FP7 project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16746376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746376", "title": "List of best-selling fiction authors", "text": "List of best-selling fiction authors\n\nThis is a list of best-selling fiction authors to date, in any language. While finding precise sales numbers for any given author is near-impossible, the list is based on approximate numbers provided or repeated by reliable sources. \"Best-selling\" refers to the estimated number of copies sold of all fiction books written or co-written by an author. To keep the list manageable, only authors with estimated sales of at least 100 million are included. Authors of comic books are not included unless they have been published in book format (for example, comic albums, manga tankōbon volumes, trade paperbacks, or graphic novels).\n\nAuthors such as Miguel de Cervantes, Alexandre Dumas, Charles Dickens, Jane Austen, Arthur Conan Doyle, Victor Hugo, Jules Verne, Rick Riordan, Jack Higgins and Leon Uris have not been included in the table because no exact figures could be found—although there are indications that they too have more than 100 million copies of their work in print. \n\n"}
{"id": "31530446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31530446", "title": "Lithuanian Theatre Union", "text": "Lithuanian Theatre Union\n\nThe Lithuanian Theatre Union () is the official theatrical union of Lithuania. The association awards Lithuanian stage actors and plays with annual awards, from Best Actor and Best Young Actor categories to Best Productions. It declared independence from the new Union of Theatre Workers before the abortive coup of August 1991. Many of the top theatre critics and people are a member of this union, which numbered 1000 members in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3460551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3460551", "title": "Mandarin collar", "text": "Mandarin collar\n\nA mandarin collar, standing collar, band collar or choker collar is a short unfolded stand-up collar style on a shirt or jacket. The style derives its Western name from the mandarin bureaucrats in Qing-era China that employed it as part of their uniform.\nThe length along a mandarin collar is straight, with either straight or rounded edges at top of the centre front. The edges of the collar either barely meet at the centre front or overlap slightly. Overlapping mandarin collars are often a continuation of a shirt's placket and have a button on the collar to secure the two sides of the shirt together. \n\nA similar style known as the Nehru collar is also found in some modern Indian men's clothing, such as the Nehru jacket. (Named for Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India 1947–1964, who commonly wore clothing with this type of collar.)\n\nA band is often a mandarin collar. This term is also used for shirts that have only a flat finishing around the neckline; originally such garments were designed for use with a detachable collar, a largely forgotten usage.\n\nIn contemporary Western dress, mandarin collars are found in oriental-style and minimalist clothing. Women's mandarin-collared jackets often include other vaguely oriental elements, such as silk knots as closures instead of buttons.\n\nSince mandarin collars are short and do not fold over, neckties are not worn with mandarin-collared dress shirts. This lack of ties may have led to the recent rising popularity of mandarin collars.\nMandarin collars are also utilised heavily in modern-day military combat uniforms like the US Army's Army Combat Uniform . The presence of the mandarin collar on the ACU makes the wearing of body armor more comfortable by lifting the collar up to prevent chafing. Stand collars are also common on historically based military dress uniforms, such as dress uniforms of the British Army, US Navy and US Marine Corps. Even the Russian Army uses a mandarin collar in their newer VKBO uniforms\n\nMandarin collars are also the proper shape for a single-breasted Greek cassock, or anterri, for Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic clergy. Russians and other Slavic Churches typically have a high, band-style collar, buttoning to the side or on the shoulder, while Greeks have the \"notched\" Mandarin pattern with a closing loop or hook at the bottom of the \"V\" in the collar.\n\nThe collar is also used for the required sport fencing dress.\nMandarin collars feature in costumes in some notable films, where they are employed either as a futuristic style fashion or to create a distinctive appearance for sinister characters. The title character in the 1962 James Bond film \"Dr. No\", as well as Bond's nemesis, Ernst Stavro Blofeld, both parodied by Doctor Evil in the Austin Powers series of films are depicted wearing mandarin collared shirts. The mandarin collar can also be found in the uniform of the Empire's officers in the Star Wars films.\n\n"}
{"id": "35950480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35950480", "title": "Neo-Adlerian", "text": "Neo-Adlerian\n\nNeo-Adlerian psychologists are those working in the tradition of, or influenced by Alfred Adler, an early associate of, and dissident from the ideas of, Sigmund Freud.\n\nNeo-Adlerian ideas have been identified in the field of education, associated particularly with the work of Rudolf Dreikurs. The Neo-Adlerian classroom model stresses the importance of the student's search for feelings of belonging.\n\nFritz Wittels used the term 'Neo-Adlerian' to refer derogatively to the Neo-Freudians, due to their emphasis on the social aspects of psychology. Heinz Ansbacher however sought to capture the Neo-Freudians \"as\" neo-Adlerians, to promote Adler's influence. Henri Ellenberger would later adjudge that what he called the neo-psychoanalysts like Karen Horney and Erich Fromm would indeed more accurately be known as neo-Adlerians.\n\nTransactional Analysis has also been termed a neo-Adlerian school - Eric Berne himself acknowledging that \"of all those who preceded transactional analysis, Alfred Adler comes the closest to talking like a script analyst\". A direct line of influence runs from Adler through Harry Stack Sullivan to Thomas Anthony Harris - one of the co-creators of TA - with Adler's ideas on guiding fictions and the sense of inferiority feeding into Berne's concept of psychological games, which can also be considered in terms of the interactions of different life style systems.\n\n\nHeinz L. Ansbacher, \"'Neo-Freudian' or 'Neo-Adlerian'?\", \"American Psychologist\" 8 (1953)\n\n'Adlerian Psychotherapy' in R. Corsini/D. Wedding eds., \"Current Psychotherapies\" (?)\n\nH. Cowie/D. Jennifer, \"New Perspectives on Bullying\" (2008)\n\n"}
{"id": "46972538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46972538", "title": "Online shaming", "text": "Online shaming\n\nOnline shaming is a form of Internet vigilantism in which targets are publicly humiliated using technology like social and new media. Proponents of shaming see it as a form of online participation that allows hacktivists and cyber-dissidents to right injustices. Critics see it as a tool that encourages online mobs to destroy the reputation and careers of people or organizations who made perceived slights.\n\nOnline shaming frequently involves the publication of private information on the Internet (called doxing), which can frequently lead to hate messages and death threats being used to intimidate that person. The ethics of public humiliation has been a source of debate over privacy and ethics.\n\nThe social networking tools of the Internet have been used as a tool to easily and widely publicize instances of perceived anti-social behavior.\n\nDavid Furlow, chairman of the Media, Privacy and Defamation Committee of the American Bar Association, has identified the potential privacy concerns raised by websites facilitating the distribution of information that is not part of the public record (documents filed with a government agency), and has said that such websites \"just [give] a forum to people whose statements may not reflect truth.\"\n\nAfter some controversial incidents of public shaming, the popular link-sharing and discussion website Reddit introduced a strict rule against the publication of non-public personally-identifying information via the site (colloquially known on Reddit and elsewhere as \"doxing\"). Those who break the rule are subject to a site-wide ban, and their posts and even entire communities may be removed for breaking the rule.\n\nIn 2015, online shaming was the subject of the book \"So You've Been Publicly Shamed\" by Jon Ronson. Ronson documented how people had become agoraphobic due to humiliation online for misinterpreted jokes, and says people should think twice before gleefully condemning someone for doing almost nothing wrong.\n\nDoxing involves researching and broadcasting personally identifiable information about an individual, often with the intention of harming that person. This can often lead to extortion, coercion, harassment and other forms of abuse. On February 1, 2017, Reddit, a social news website, has banned two alt-right communities, r/altright and r/alternativeright for doxing and violating Reddit community guidelines.\n\nNonconsensual pornography is a form of sexually explicit recording publicized on the Internet in order to humiliate a person, frequently distributed by computer hackers or ex-partners (called revenge porn). Images and video of sexual acts are often combined with doxing of a person's private details, such as their home addresses and workplaces. Victims' lives can be ruined as a result, the victims exposed to cyber-stalking and physical attack as well as facing difficulties in their workplace should their images become known as a result of routine checks by employers. Some have lost their jobs, while others have been unable to find work at all.\n\nProducts frequently attract negative reviews on Goodreads, Amazon and other online commerce websites.\n\nIn many cases, users of Yelp write reviews in order to lash out at corporate interests or businesses they dislike. During the Chick-fil-A same-sex marriage controversy, activists encouraged a consumer boycott of Chick-fil-A and left negative reviews of the site's locations on restaurant rating websites after the founder declared that corporate profits would be donated to political causes opposing same-sex marriage in the United States. In 2015 an Indiana pizzeria was swarmed with negative Yelp reviews after the owner said it wouldn't cater gay weddings. Similar reactions have frequently followed bakers refusing to make cakes for gay weddings. After Cecil the lion was shot by an American recreational big-game hunter, his business was flooded with negative reviews.\n\nVarious governments have used \"name and shame\" policies to punish tax evasion, environmental violations and minor crimes like littering.\n\nIn July 2015, a group hacked the user data of Ashley Madison, a commercial dating website marketed as helping people have extramarital affairs. In August 2015, over 30 million user account details, including names and email addresses were released publicly.\n\nA variety of security researchers and Internet privacy activists debated the ethics of the release.\n\nClinical psychologists argued that dealing with an affair in a particularly public way increases the hurt for spouses and children. Carolyn Gregoire argued \"[s]ocial media has created an aggressive culture of public shaming in which individuals take it upon themselves to inflict psychological damage\" and more often than not, \"the punishment goes beyond the scope of the crime.\" Charles J. Orlando, who had joined the site to conduct research concerning women who cheat, said he felt users of the site were anxious the release of sexually explicit messages would humiliate their spouses and children. He wrote it is alarming \"the mob that is the Internet is more than willing to serve as judge, jury, and executioner\" and members of the site \"don’t deserve a flogging in the virtual town square with millions of onlookers.\"\n\nIn December 2013, Justine Sacco, a woman with 170 Twitter followers, tweeted acerbic jokes during a plane trip from New York to Cape Town, such as \"Weird German dude get some deodorant\" and, in Heathrow; \"Going to Africa. Hope I don't get AIDS. Just Kidding. I'm white!\" Sacco, a South African herself, intended the tweet to mock American ignorance of South Africa, and in a later interview expressed that her intention was to \"mimic—and mock what an actual racist, ignorant person would say.\" Sacco slept during her 11-hour plane trip, and woke up to find out that she had lost her job and was the number one Twitter topic worldwide, with celebrities and new media bloggers all over the globe denouncing her and encouraging all their followers to do the same. Sacco's employer, New York internet firm IAC, declared that she had lost her job as Director of Corporate Communications. People began tweeting \"Has Justine landed yet?\", expressing schadenfreude at the loss of her career. Sam Biddle, the Gawker Media blogger who promoted the #HasJustineLandedYet hashtag, later apologised for his role, admitting that he did so for Internet traffic to his blog, and noting that \"it's easy and thrilling to hate a stranger online.”\n\nAccording to Ronson, the public does not understand that a vigilante campaign of public shaming, undertaken with the ostensible intention of defending the underdog, may create a mob mentality capable of destroying the lives and careers of the public figures singled out for shaming. Ronson argued that in the early days of Twitter, people used the platform to share intimate details of their lives, and not as a vehicle of shaming. Brooke Gladstone argued that the Sacco affair may deter people from expressing themselves online due to a fear of being misinterpreted. Kelly McBride argues that journalists play a key role in expanding the shame and humiliation of targets of the campaigns by relaying claims to a larger audience, while justifying their actions as simply documenting an event in an impartial manner. She writes: \"Because of the mob mentality that accompanies public shaming events, often there is very little information about the target, sometimes only a single tweet. Yet there is a presumption of guilt and swift move toward justice, with no process for ascertaining facts.\" McBride further notes \"If newspapers ran front-page photos of adulterers in the Middle East being stripped naked and whipped in order to further their shame, we would criticize them as part of a backward system of justice.\" Ben Adler compared the Sacco incident to a number of Twitter hoaxes, and argued that the media needs to be more careful to fact-check articles and evaluate context.\n\nIn March 2013, at a PyCon technology conference, a female participant named Adria Richards took offense at a private discussion between two male attendees seated nearby using the words \"dongle\" and \"forking\" in reference to the male presenter, which she perceived as a sexual joke. Richards photographed the attendees with their faces visible, then published the photograph on Twitter including a shaming statement in her tweet. The following day, the employer of one of the photographed individuals, a software developer, terminated his employment because of the joke.\n\nIn response to Richards' public shaming of the developers, Internet users who were uninvolved launched a DDoS Attack on her employer, SendGrid, and according to an article by Jon Ronson in \"The New York Times Magazine\" \"told the employer the attacks would stop if Richards was fired\". SendGrid subsequently terminated her employment later the same day citing Richards' dividing the very community she was hired to unite, and the male anatomy joke she had posted a few days earlier on the employer website. Following the incident, PyCon updated its attendee rules stating, \"Public shaming can be counter-productive to building a strong community. PyCon does not condone nor participate in such actions out of respect.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview, Richards—still unemployed—speculated whether the developer was responsible for instigating the Internet backlash against her. The developer, who was offered a new job \"right away\", said he had not engaged with those who sent him messages of support, and had posted a short statement on Hacker News the same night after he was fired saying in part that Richards had \"every right to report me to staff, and I defend her position\".\n\nIn November 2012, an Australian man filmed several passengers on a Melbourne bus verbally abusing and threatening a woman who had begun singing a song in French. A video alerting viewers of their racist and sexist comments was uploaded to YouTube and quickly attracted national and international media attention. The two male perpetrators who were most prominent in the video were later jailed, with Magistrate Jennifer Goldsbrough describing their threats as \"offensive to the entire population\".\n\nStarting as a turn of phrase, manspreading is a critique of men who take up more than one seat with their legs widely spread. In New York, actor Tom Hanks was photographed on the subway, taking up two seats, and then criticized for it. He responded on a talk show, \"Hey Internet, you idiot! The train was half empty! It was scattered—there was plenty of room!\" The controversy surrounding manspreading have been described by libertarian feminist Cathy Young as \"pseudo feminism—preoccupied with male misbehavior, no matter how trivial\". The practice of posting pictures of manspreading taken on subways, buses, and other modes of transportation online has been described as a form of public shaming. The criticism and campaigns against manspreading have been counter-criticized for not addressing similar behavior by women, such as taking up adjacent seats with bags, or \"she-bagging\". Twitter campaigns with the hashtag #manspreading have also been accompanied by hashtags like #she-bagging.\n\nThe feminist philosophy journal became involved in a dispute in April 2017 that led to the online shaming of one of its authors. The journal published an article about transracialism by Rebecca Tuvel, an assistant professor of philosophy, comparing the situation of Caitlyn Jenner, a trans woman, to that of Rachel Dolezal, a white woman who identifies as black. The article was criticized on Facebook and Twitter as a source of \"epistemic violence\", and the author became the subject of personal attacks. Academics associated with \"Hypatia\" joined in the criticism. A member of the journal's editorial board became the point of contact for an open letter demanding that the article be retracted, and the journal's board of associate editors issued an unauthorized apology, saying the article should never have been published. Rogers Brubaker described the episode in the \"New York Times\" as an example of \"internet shaming\".\n\nIn February 2009, an incident occurred involving the posting on YouTube of a video clip in which a domestic cat, named Dusty, was beaten and tortured by a 14-year-old boy calling himself \"Timmy\". After about 30,000 viewings, this clip and the account were removed by YouTube as a violation of their terms of service. Members of the 4chan imageboard investigated the incident, and by extrapolating from the poster's YouTube user name and the background in the video, they identified the abuser. As a result of these complaints, the Comanche County Sheriff's Department investigated the incident, and two suspects were arrested. Dusty survived the abuse, and was placed in the care of a local veterinarian. Both the assailant and the cameraman were charged with animal cruelty; as both were juveniles, possible punishments included \"psychological counseling, court monitoring until they turn 18, community service to provide restitution for treatment of animals, and/or placement in court custody.\"\n\nIn 2006, Wang-Jue (), a Chinese nurse appearing in an Internet crush video stomping a helpless kitten with her stilettos, gave herself up to authorities after bloggers and some print media started a campaign to trace back the recording. In the beginning, she was labeled as the kitten killer of Hangzhou, because it was believed she was from there; but some internauts recognized an island in northern Heilongjiang province. Upon discovery of her identity, Wang Jue received death threats from many angry animal lovers.\n\nWang posted an apology on the Luobei city government official website. She said she was recently divorced and did not know what to do with her life. She and the cameraman, a provincial TV employee, lost their jobs when internauts discovered their identities.\n\nIn August 2010, a passer-by in Coventry, England, later identified as Mary Bale by 4chan's members, was caught on a private security camera stroking a cat, named Lola, then looking around and dumping her in a wheelie bin, where she was found by her owners 15 hours later. The owners posted the video on the Internet in a bid to identify the woman, who was later interviewed by the RSPCA about her conduct. Outrage was sparked among animal lovers, and a Facebook group called \"Death to Mary Bale\" was created, and later removed. Police said they were speaking to the 45-year-old about her personal safety.\n\nThe woman, who at first downplayed her actions (\"I thought it would be funny\", \"it's just a cat\" and \"didn't see what all the buzz was about\") eventually apologised \"profusely for the upset and distress\".\n\nBale was convicted under the Animal Welfare Act of 2006 with causing unnecessary suffering to a cat. An additional charge of failing to provide the cat with a suitable environment was dropped. She was fined £250 and ordered to pay costs, totaling £1,436.04.\n\nIn 2010, a case was publicized involving a young female from Sichuan, using the alias Huang siu siu (黄小小), torturing and crushing rabbits. The group that financially sponsored the making of these videos, later revealed to be called \"Crushfetish\", paid young girls to crush fish, insects, rabbits and other small animals. The girl was paid 100 yuan for each attempt, and she had been participating since 2007. Police said the group makes videos to sell overseas, and the company has allegedly made 279 animal abuse videos with a subscription fee. Because of the concurrent hosting of the 2010 Asian Games, the animal videos were limited to being hosted online for a few hours a day.\n\nIn October 2013, a delicately balanced hoodoo in Goblin Valley State Park was intentionally knocked over by Boy Scout leaders who had been camping in the area. David Benjamin Hall captured video and shouted encouragement while Glenn Tuck Taylor toppled the formation. They posted the video to Facebook, whereupon it was viewed by thousands and the two men began receiving death threats. Their claim that the hoodoo appeared unstable, and that they vandalised it out of concern for passersby, was rejected by Fred Hayes, director of the Utah Division of State Parks and Recreation. Hall and Taylor were charged with third-degree felonies and were expelled from Boy Scouts.\n\nOn August 26, 2012, Yang Dacai, chief of the Shanxi provincial work safety administration, was caught grinning widely amid the wreckage of a long-distance bus that killed 36 passengers when it collided with a tanker loaded with highly flammable methanol on a Chinese highway in Shanxi Province. Pictures of the accident began to circulate on Sina Weibo, the most popular micro-blogging site in China which led to a meme dubbing him as the \"Smiling Brother\". Searches on the human flesh search engine followed leading to pictures surfacing on Weibo, showing Yang wearing luxury watches such as a $10,000 Rolex initiating another meme calling him \"Watch Brother\". On September 21, Yang was relieved of his position and accused of serious discipline violations. He was subsequently jailed for 14 years after being found guilty of taking bribes.\n\nIn 2005 in South Korea, bloggers targeted a woman who refused to clean up when her dog defecated on the floor of a Seoul subway car, labeling her \"Dog Poop Girl\" (rough translation of into English). Another commuter had taken a photograph of the woman and her dog, and posted it on a popular South Korean website. Within days, she had been identified by Internet vigilantes, and much of her personal information was leaked onto the Internet in an attempt to punish her for the offense. The story received mainstream attention when it was widely reported in South Korean media. The public humiliation led the woman to drop out of her university, according to reports.\n\nThe reaction by the South Korean public to the incident prompted several newspapers in South Korea to run editorials voicing concern over Internet vigilantism. One paper quoted Daniel Solove as saying that the woman was the victim of a \"cyber-posse, tracking down norm violators and branding them with digital Scarlet Letters.\" Another called it an \"Internet witch-hunt,\" and went on to say that \"the Internet is turning the whole society into a kangaroo court.\"\n\nOther notable instances also include the case of Evan Guttman and his friend's stolen Sidekick II smartphone, and the case of Jesse McPherson and his stolen Xbox 360, PowerBook, and TV.\n\nIn 2008, a 5-year-old girl asked to use the bathroom at the Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory at Bella Terra/Huntington Beach, but was disallowed from using it because the Factory's restrooms were for employees only. The girl's mother describes the incident this way: \"I explained she had diarrhea and couldn't hold it and told [the store owners] she was about to go on the floor. They refused again and never offered me any alternatives. I begged them to have a heart and that she was 5 but by that time she had lost it all over herself and me.\" The story then spread to sites like digg.com where contact information for the owner of the store was released in message boards.\n\nIn 2008, a girl called Zhang Ya () from Liaoning province, Northeast China, posted a 4-minute video of herself complaining about the amount of attention the Sichuan earthquake victims were receiving on television. An intense response from Internet vigilantes resulted in the girl's personal details (even including her blood type) being made available online, as well as dozens of abusive video responses on Chinese websites and blogs. The girl was taken into police custody for three days as protection from vigilante death threats.\n\nStephen Fowler, a British expatriate and venture capitalist businessman, gained notoriety after his performance on ABC's \"Wife Swap\" (originally aired Friday January 30, 2009) when his wife exchanged positions in his family with a woman from Missouri for a two-week period. In response to her rule changes (standard procedure for the second week in the show) he insulted his guest and, in doing so, groups including the lower classes, soldiers, and the overweight. Several websites were made in protest against his behaviour. After the show, and after watching the \"Wife Swap\" video, his wife, a professional life coach, reported that she had encouraged him to attend professional behaviour counselling. Businesses with only tangential connection to Fowler publicly disclaimed any association with him due to the negative publicity. He resigned positions on the boards of two environmental charities to avoid attracting negative press.\n\nIn 2008, video of Patrick Pogan, a rookie police officer, body-slamming Christopher Long, a cyclist, surfaced on the Internet. The altercation happened when members of Critical Mass conducted a bicycling advocacy event at Times Square. The officer claimed the cyclist had veered into him, and so the biker was charged with assault, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest.\n\nThe charges against the cyclist were later dropped and Pogan was convicted of lying about the confrontation with the cyclist.\n\nIn 2009, a Facebook group was started, accusing a single mother for the death of a 13-month-old child in her foster care. It was the mother's then common-law husband who pleaded guilty to manslaughter and the mother was not formally accused of any wrongdoing. However, the members of the group, such as the boy's biological mother, accuse her of knowing what was going on and doing nothing to stop it.\n\nThe food magazine \"Cooks Source\" printed an article by Monica Gaudio without her permission in their October 2010 issue. Learning of the copyright violation, Gaudio emailed Judith Griggs, managing editor of \"Cooks Source Magazine\", requesting that the magazine both apologize and also donate $130 to the Columbia School of Journalism as payment for using her work. Instead she received a very unapologetic letter stating that she (Griggs) herself should be thanked for making the piece better and that Gaudio should be glad that she didn't give someone else credit for writing the article. During the ensuing public outcry, online vigilantes took it upon themselves to avenge Gaudio. The \"Cooks Source\" Facebook page was flooded with thousands of contemptuous comments, forcing the magazine's staff to create new pages in an attempt to escape the protest and accuse 'hackers' of taking control of the original page. The magazine's website was stripped of all content by the staff and shut down a week later.\n\nIn June 2012, An elderly bus monitor, Karen Klein, was taunted, picked on, and threatened by four seventh-graders. The act was caught on video and uploaded to the Internet which in turn caused an act of kindness from complete strangers. $703,833 was raised for Klein in donations from concerned strangers who were outraged after viewing a video that captured her torment.\n\nIn 2015 a junior barrister Charlotte Proudman working in the UK tweeted a screenshot of her LinkedIn exchange with Alexander Carter-Silk, a senior City solicitor, rebuking him for complimenting her on her profile photograph. The social media backlash included Proudman finding herself condemned as a \"feminazi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209485", "title": "Outline of food preparation", "text": "Outline of food preparation\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to food preparation:\n\nFood preparation – art form and applied science that includes but is not limited to cooking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA sample of some cuisines around the world:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38764916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38764916", "title": "Over Your Cities Grass Will Grow", "text": "Over Your Cities Grass Will Grow\n\nOver Your Cities Grass Will Grow is a 2010 Sophie Fiennes documentary about the German industrial artist Anselm Kiefer's creation of a gesamtkunstwerk in an abandoned factory complex outside Barjac, France. Kiefer moved to the South of France from Germany in 1993 and began creating his art installation, \"La Ribaute\" on 35 acres of land belonging to an old silk factory. The film begins with a lengthy silence to show the tunnels and spaces the artist created before showing the artist and his process in creating the installation and a large landscape painting. The film opened at Cannes in 2010 as a special screening.\n\n"}
{"id": "62017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62017", "title": "Pierre Beaumarchais", "text": "Pierre Beaumarchais\n\nPierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais (; 24 January 1732 – 18 May 1799) was a French polymath. At various times in his life, he was a watchmaker, inventor, playwright, musician, diplomat, spy, publisher, horticulturist, arms dealer, satirist, financier, and revolutionary (both French and American).\n\nBorn a provincial watchmaker's son, Beaumarchais rose in French society and became influential in the court of Louis XV as an inventor and music teacher. He made a number of important business and social contacts, played various roles as a diplomat and spy, and had earned a considerable fortune before a series of costly court battles jeopardized his reputation.\n\nAn early French supporter of American independence, Beaumarchais lobbied the French government on behalf of the American rebels during the American War of Independence. Beaumarchais oversaw covert aid from the French and Spanish governments to supply arms and financial assistance to the rebels in the years before France's formal entry into the war in 1778. He later struggled to recover money he had personally invested in the scheme. Beaumarchais was also a participant in the early stages of the French Revolution. He is probably best known, however, for his theatrical works, especially the three Figaro plays.\n\nBeaumarchais was born Pierre-Augustin Caron in the Rue Saint-Denis, Paris on 24 January 1732. He was the only boy among the six surviving children of André-Charles Caron, a watchmaker from Meaux. The family had previously been Huguenots, but had converted to Roman Catholicism in the wake of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes and the increased persecution of Protestants that followed. The family was comfortably middle-class and Beaumarchais had a peaceful and happy childhood. As the only son, he was spoiled by his parents and sisters. He took an interest in music and played several instruments. Though born a Catholic, Beaumarchais retained a sympathy for Protestants and would campaign throughout his life for their civil rights. One of his sisters, Marie-Josèphe Caron, later became an artist; their cousin was the artist Suzanne Caron.\n\nFrom the age of ten, Beaumarchais had some schooling at a \"country school\" where he learned some Latin. Two years later, Beaumarchais left school at twelve to work as an apprentice under his father and learn the art of watchmaking. He may have used his own experiences during these years as the inspiration for the character of Cherubin when he wrote the \"Marriage of Figaro\". He generally neglected his work, and at one point was evicted by his father, only to be later allowed back after apologising for his poor behaviour.\n\nAt the time, pocket watches were commonly unreliable for timekeeping and were worn more as fashion accessories. In response to this, Beaumarchais spent nearly a year researching improvements. In July 1753, at the age of twenty one, he invented an escapement for watches that allowed them to be made substantially more accurate and compact.\n\nThe first man to take an interest in this new invention was Jean-André Lepaute, the royal clockmaker in France, whose clocks could be found in the Palais du Luxembourg, Tuileries Palace, the Palais-Royal, and the Jardin des Plantes. Lepaute had been a mentor to Beaumarchais after discovering the boy's talent in a chance encounter in the Caron family's shop. He encouraged him as he worked on the new invention, earned his trust, and promptly stole the idea for himself, writing a letter to the French Academy of Sciences describing the \"Lepaute system\". Beaumarchais was outraged when he read in the September issue of \"Le Mercure de France\" that M. Lepaute had just invented the most wonderful mechanism for a more portable clock. and wrote a strongly-worded letter to that same newspaper defending the invention as his own and urging the French Academy of Sciences to see the proof for themselves. \"In the interests of truth and my reputation,\" he says, \"I cannot let such an infidelity go by in silence and must claim as mine the invention of this device.\" Lepaute defended himself with a statement by three Jesuits that claimed he had shown them such a mechanism in May 1753.\n\nThe following February, the Academy indeed ruled that the mechanism was his and not Lepaute's, catapulting him to stardom and relegating Lepaute to infamy, as \"l'affaire Lepaute\" had been the talk of Paris. Soon afterwards, he was asked by King Louis XV to create a watch mounted on a ring for his mistress Madame de Pompadour. Louis was so impressed by the result that he named Beaumarchais \"Purveyor to the King\", and the Caron family business became prosperous.\n\nIn 1755 Beaumarchais met Madeleine-Catherine Aubertin, a widow, and married her the following year. She helped Beaumarchais secure a royal office, and he gave up watchmaking. Shortly after his marriage, he adopted the name \"Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais\", which he derived from \"le Bois Marchais\", the name of a piece of land belonging to his new wife. He believed the name sounded grander and more aristocratic and adopted at the same time an elaborate coat of arms. His wife died less than a year later, which plunged him into financial problems, and he ran up large debts.\n\nBeaumarchais' problems were eased when he was appointed to teach Louis XV's four daughters the harp. His role soon grew and he became a musical advisor for the royal family. In 1759, Caron met Joseph Paris Duverney, an older and wealthy entrepreneur. Beaumarchais assisted him in gaining the King's approval for the new military academy he was building, the École Royale Militaire, and in turn Duverney promised to help make him rich. The two became very close friends and collaborated on many business ventures. Assisted by Duverney, Beaumarchais acquired the title of Secretary-Councillor to the King in 1760–61, thereby gaining access to French nobility. This was followed by the purchase in 1763 of a second title, the office of Lieutenant General of Hunting, a position which oversaw the royal parks. Around this time, he became engaged to Pauline Le Breton, who came from a plantation-owning family from Saint-Domingue, but broke it off when he discovered she was not as wealthy as he had been led to believe.\n\nIn April 1764, Beaumarchais began a ten-month sojourn in Madrid, ostensibly to help his sister, Lisette, who had been abandoned by her fiancé, Clavijo, an official at the Ministry of War. While in Spain, he was mostly concerned with striking business deals for Duverney. They sought exclusive contracts for the newly acquired Spanish colony of Louisiana and attempted to gain the right to import slaves to the Spanish colonies in the Americas. Beaumarchais went to Madrid with a letter of introduction from the Duc de Choiseul, who was now his political patron. Hoping to secure Clavijo's support for his business deals by binding him by marriage, Beaumarchais initially shamed Clavijo into agreeing to marry Lisette, but when further details emerged about Clavijo's conduct, the marriage was called off.\n\nBeaumarchais's business deals dragged on, and he spent much of his time soaking up the atmosphere of Spain, which would become a major influence on his later writings. Although he befriended important figures such as the foreign minister Grimaldi, his attempts to secure the contracts for Duverney eventually came to nothing and he went home in March 1765. Although Beaumarchais returned to France with little profit, he had managed to acquire new experience, musical ideas, and ideas for theatrical characters. Beaumarchais considered turning the affair into a play, but decided to leave it to others—including Goethe, who wrote \"Clavigo\" in 1774.\n\nBeaumarchais hoped to be made consul to Spain, but his application was rejected. Instead he concentrated on developing his business affairs and began to show an interest in writing plays. He had already experimented in writing short farces for private audiences, but he now had ambitions to write for the theatre.\n\nHis name as a writer was established with his first dramatic play, \"Eugénie\", which premiered at the Comédie Française in 1767. This was followed in 1770 by another drama, \"Les Deux amis\".\n\nBeaumarchais's Figaro plays are \"Le Barbier de Séville\", \"Le Mariage de Figaro\", and \"La Mère coupable\". Figaro and Count Almaviva, the two characters Beaumarchais most likely conceived in his travels in Spain, were (with Rosine, later the Countess Almaviva) the only ones present in all three plays. They are indicative of the change in social attitudes before, during, and after the French Revolution. Figaro and Almaviva first appeared in \"Le Sacristain\", which he wrote around 1765 and dubbed \"an interlude, imitating the Spanish style.\" Naturally, this thinly veiled government criticism did not go without opposition. Upon first reading a manuscript of Beaumarchais's play, King Louis XVI stated that \"this man mocks everything that must be respected in a government\" and refused to let it be performed.\nTo a lesser degree, the Figaro plays are semi-autobiographical. Don Guzman Brid'oison (\"Le Mariage\") and Bégearss (\"La Mère\") were caricatures of two of Beaumarchais's real-life adversaries, Goezman and Bergasse. The page Chérubin (\"Le Mariage\") resembled the youthful Beaumarchais, who did contemplate suicide when his love was to marry another. Suzanne, the heroine of \"Le Mariage\" and \"La Mère\", was modelled after Beaumarchais's third wife, Marie-Thérèse de Willer-Mawlaz. Meanwhile, some of the Count monologues reflect on the playwright's remorse over his numerous sexual exploits.\n\n\"Le Barbier\" premiered in Paris in 1775. An English translation premiered in London a year later, and that was followed by performances in other European countries.\n\nThe sequel, \"Le Mariage\", was initially passed by the censor in 1781, but was soon banned from being performed by Louis XVI after a private reading. Queen Marie-Antoinette lamented the ban, as did various influential members of her entourage. Nonetheless, the King was unhappy with the play's satire on the aristocracy and overruled the Queen's entreaties to allow its performance. Over the next three years, Beaumarchais gave many private readings of the play, as well as making revisions to try to pass the censor. The King finally relented and lifted the ban in 1784. The play premiered that year and was enormously popular even with aristocratic audiences. Mozart's opera based on the play, \"Le Nozze di Figaro\" premiered just two years later in Vienna. Beaumarchais's final play, \"La Mère\", premiered in 1792 in Paris.\n\nIn homage to the great French playwright Molière, Beaumarchais also dubbed \"La Mère\" \"The Other \"Tartuffe\"\". All three Figaro plays enjoyed great success, and are still frequently performed today in theatres and opera houses.\n\nThe death of Duverney on 17 July 1770 triggered a decade of turmoil for Beaumarchais. A few months earlier, the two had signed a statement cancelling all debts that Beaumarchais owed Duverney (about 75,000 pounds), and granting Beaumarchais the modest sum of 15,000 pounds. Duverney's sole heir, Count de la Blache, took Beaumarchais to court, claiming the signed statement was a forgery. Although the 1772 verdict favoured Beaumarchais, it was overturned on appeal the following year by a judge, a magistrate named Goezman, whom Beaumarchais tried in vain to bribe. At the same time, Beaumarchais was also involved in a dispute with the Duke de Chaulnes over the Duke's mistress, which resulted in Beaumarchais being thrown into jail from February to May 1773. La Blache took advantage of Beaumarchais' court absence and persuaded Goezman to order Beaumarchais to repay all his debts to Duverney, plus interest and all legal expenses.\n\nTo garner public support, Beaumarchais published a four-part pamphlet entitled \"Mémoires contre Goezman\". The action made Beaumarchais an instant celebrity, for the public at the time saw Beaumarchais as a champion for social justice and liberty. Goezman countered Beaumarchais's accusations by launching a lawsuit of his own. The verdict was equivocal. On 26 February 1774, both Beaumarchais and Mme. Goezman (who had taken the bribe from Beaumarchais) were sentenced to \"blâme\" meaning they were nominally deprived of their civil rights. Naturally, Beaumarchais followed few of the restrictions placed upon him. Magistrate Goezman was removed from his post. At the same time, Goezman's verdict in the La Blache case was overturned. The Goezman case was so sensational that the judges left the courtroom through a back door to avoid the large, angry mob waiting in front of the court house.\n\nBefore France officially entered the war in 1778, Beaumarchais played a major role in delivering French munitions, money and supplies to the American army. In order to secretly funnel aid to the rebels, he helped set up a fictitious business called Roderigue Hortalez and Company.\n\nTo restore his civil rights, Beaumarchais pledged his services to Louis XV. He traveled to London, Amsterdam and Vienna on various secret missions. His first mission was to travel to London to destroy a pamphlet, \"Les mémoires secrets d'une femme publique\", which Louis XV considered a libel of one of his mistresses, Madame du Barry. Beaumarchais was sent to London to persuade the French spy Chevalier D'Eon to return home, but while there he began gathering information on British politics and society. Britain's colonial situation was deteriorating and in 1775 fighting broke out between British troops and American rebels. Beaumarchais became a major source of information about the rebellion for the French government and sent a regular stream of reports with exaggerated rumours of the size of the success of the rebel forces blockading Boston.\n\nOnce back in France, Beaumarchais began work on a new operation. Louis XVI, who did not want to break openly with Britain, allowed Beaumarchais to found a commercial enterprise, Roderigue Hortalez and Company, supported by the French and Spanish crowns, that supplied the American rebels with weapons, munitions, clothes and provisions, all of which would never be paid for. This policy came to fruition in 1777 when John Burgoyne's army capitulated at Saratoga to a rebel force largely clothed and armed by the supplies Beaumarchais had been sending; it marked a personal triumph for him. Beaumarchais was injured in a carriage accident while racing into Paris with news of Saratoga.\n\nBeaumarchais had dealt with Silas Deane, an acting member of the Committee of Secret Correspondence in the Second Continental Congress. For these services, the French Parliament reinstated Beaumarchais's civil rights in 1776. In 1778, Beaumarchais' hopes were fulfilled when the French government agreed to the Treaty of Amity and Commerce and the Treaty of Alliance. France officially entered the American War of Independence soon after, followed by Spain in 1779 and the Dutch Republic in 1780.\n\nShortly after the death of Voltaire in 1778, Beaumarchais set out to publish Voltaire's complete works, many of which were banned in France. He bought the rights to most of Voltaire's many manuscripts from the publisher Charles-Joseph Panckouck in February 1779. To evade French censorship, he set up printing presses in Kehl, Germany. He bought the complete foundry of the famous English type designer John Baskerville from his widow and also purchased three paper mills. Seventy volumes were published between 1783 and 1790. While the venture proved a financial failure, Beaumarchais was instrumental in preserving many of Voltaire's later works which otherwise might have been lost.\n\nIt was not long before Beaumarchais crossed paths again with the French legal system. In 1787, he became acquainted with Mme. Korman, who was implicated and imprisoned in an adultery suit, which was filed by her husband to expropriate her dowry. The matter went to court, with Beaumarchais siding with Mme. Korman, and M. Korman assisted by a celebrity lawyer, Nicolas Bergasse. On 2 April 1790, M. Korman and Bergasse were found guilty of calumny (slander), but Beaumarchais's reputation was also tarnished.\n\nMeanwhile, the French Revolution broke out. Beaumarchais was no longer quite the idol he had been a few years before, as he thought the excesses of the revolution were endangering liberty. He was financially successful, mainly from supplying drinking water to Paris, and had acquired ranks in the French nobility. In 1791, he took up a lavish residence across from where the Bastille once stood. He spent under a week in prison during August 1792 for criticising the government, and was released only three days before a massacre took place in the prison where he had been detained.\n\nNevertheless, he pledged his services to the new republic. He attempted to purchase 60,000 rifles for the French Revolutionary army from Holland, but was unable to complete the deal.\n\nWhile he was out of the country, Beaumarchais was falsely declared an \"émigré\" (a loyalist of the old regime) by his enemies. He spent two and a half years in exile, mostly in Germany, before his name was removed from the list of proscribed émigrés. He returned to Paris in 1796, where he lived out the remainder of his life in relative peace. He is buried in the Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\nBoulevard Beaumarchais in Paris is named after him.\n\nIn 1786, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart composed an opera, \"Le Nozze di Figaro\", based on \"The Marriage of Figaro\", with a libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte based on the play. Several composers including Paisiello in 1782 wrote operas based on \"The Barber of Seville\". Rossini's 1816 version is his most successful work and still often performed. In 1966, Darius Milhaud composed an opera, \"La mère coupable\", based on \"The Guilty Mother\".\n\nBeaumarchais was also the librettist for Antonio Salieri's opera \"Tarare\", which premiered in Paris in 1787.\n\nBeaumarchais married three times. His first wife was Madeleine-Catherine Franquet (née Aubertin), whom he married on 22 November 1756; she died under mysterious circumstances only 10 months later. He married Geneviève-Madeleine Lévêque (née Wattebled) in 1768. Again, the second Mme. de Beaumarchais died under mysterious circumstances two years later, though most scholars believed she actually suffered from tuberculosis. Before her death in 1770, she bore a son, Augustin, but he died in 1772. Beaumarchais lived with his lover, Marie-Thérèse de Willer-Mawlaz, for 12 years before she became his third wife in 1786. Together they had a daughter, Eugénie.\n\nBeaumarchais was accused by his enemies of poisoning his first two wives in order to lay claim to their family inheritance. Beaumarchais, though having no shortage of lovers throughout his life, was known to care deeply for both his family and close friends. However, Beaumarchais also had a reputation of marrying for financial gain, and both Franquet and Lévêque had previously married into wealthy families. While there was insufficient evidence to support the accusations, whether or not the poisonings took place is still the subject of debate.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1950372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1950372", "title": "Proto-Celtic language", "text": "Proto-Celtic language\n\nThe Proto-Celtic language, also called Common Celtic, is the reconstructed ancestor language of all the known Celtic languages. Its lexis can be confidently reconstructed on the basis of the comparative method of historical linguistics. As Celtic is a branch of the Indo-European language family, Proto-Celtic is a descendant of the Proto-Indo-European language. According to one theory, Celtic may be closest to the Italic languages, which together form an Italo-Celtic branch. The earliest archaeological culture that may justifiably be considered as Proto-Celtic is the Late Bronze Age Urnfield culture of Central Europe from the last quarter of the second millennium BC. By the Iron Age Hallstatt culture of around 800 BC, these people had become fully Celtic.\n\nThe reconstruction of Proto-Celtic is currently being undertaken. While Continental Celtic presents much substantiation for its phonology, and some for morphology, recorded material is too scanty to allow a secure reconstruction of syntax. Although some complete sentences are recorded in Gaulish and Celtiberian, the oldest Celtic literature is found in Old Irish and Middle Welsh.\n\nThe phonological changes from Proto-Indo-European to Proto-Celtic may be summarised as follows. The changes are roughly in chronological order, with changes that operate on the outcome of earlier ones appearing later in the list.\n\nThese changes were shared by several other Indo-European branches.\n\nThe following sound changes are shared with the Italic languages in particular, and can be used in support of the Italo-Celtic hypothesis.\n\nOne change shows non-exact parallels in Italic: the vocalization of syllabic resonants next to laryngeals depending on the environment. Similar developments appear in Italic, but for the syllabic nasals *m̥, *n̥, the result is Proto-Italic *əm, *ən (> Latin \"em\" ~ \"im\", \"en\" ~ \"in\").\n\n\n\nThe following consonants have been reconstructed for Proto-Celtic:\nIn contrast to the parent language, Proto-Celtic does not use aspiration as a feature for distinguishing phonemes. So the Proto-Indo-European voiced aspirated stops *, *, * merged with *, *, *. The voiced aspirate labiovelar * did not merge with *, though: plain * became * in Proto-Celtic, while aspirated * became *. Thus, PIE * 'woman' became Old Irish \"ben\" and Old Welsh \"ben\", but PIE * 'to kill, to wound' became Old Irish \"gonaid\" and Welsh \"gwanu\".\n\nProto-Indo-European * was lost in Proto-Celtic, apparently going through the stages * (as in the table above) and * (perhaps attested by the toponym Hercynia if this is of Celtic origin) before being lost completely word-initially and between vowels. Adjacent to consonants, Proto-Celtic * underwent different changes: the clusters * and * became * and * respectively already in Proto-Celtic. PIE * became Old Irish \"s\" (lenited \"f-\", exactly as for PIE *) and Brythonic \"f\"; while argues there was an intermediate stage * (in which * remained an independent phoneme until after Proto-Insular Celtic had diverged into Goidelic and Brythonic), finds it more economical to believe that * remained unchanged in PC, that is, the change * to * did not happen when * preceded. (Similarly, Grimm's law did not apply to \"*p, t, k\" after *\"s\" in Germanic, and later the same exception occurred again in the High German consonant shift.)\n\nIn Gaulish and the Brythonic languages, a new * sound has arisen as a reflex of the Proto-Indo-European * phoneme. Consequently, one finds Gaulish \"petuar[ios]\", Welsh \"pedwar\" \"four\", compared to Old Irish *\"cethair\" and Latin \"quattuor\". Insofar as this new /p/ fills the space in the phoneme inventory which was lost by the disappearance of the equivalent stop in PIE, we may think of this as a chain shift.\n\nThe terms P-Celtic and Q-Celtic are useful when we wish to group the Celtic languages according to the way they handle this one phoneme. However a simple division into P- and Q-Celtic may be untenable, as it does not do justice to the evidence of the ancient Continental Celtic languages. The large number of unusual shared innovations among the Insular Celtic languages are often also presented as evidence against a P-Celtic \"vs\" Q-Celtic division, but they may instead reflect a common substratum influence from the pre-Celtic languages of Britain and Ireland, or simply continuing contact between the insular languages; in either case they would be irrelevant to Celtic language classification in the genetic sense.\n\nQ-Celtic languages may also have /p/ in loan words, though in early borrowings from Welsh into Primitive Irish /kʷ/ was used by sound substitution due to a lack of a /p/ phoneme at the time:\nGaelic \"póg\" \"kiss\" was a later borrowing (from the second word of the Latin phrase \"osculum pacis\" \"kiss of peace\") at a stage where \"p\" was borrowed directly as \"p\", without substituting \"c\".\n\nThe Proto-Celtic vowel system is highly comparable to that reconstructed for Proto-Indo-European by Antoine Meillet. The following monophthongs have been reconstructed:\n\nThe following diphthongs have also been reconstructed:\n\nThe morphology (structure) of nouns and adjectives demonstrates no arresting alterations from the parent language. Proto-Celtic is believed to have had nouns in three genders, three numbers and five to eight cases. The genders were the normal masculine, feminine and neuter, the three numbers were singular, plural and dual. The number of cases is a subject of contention: while Old Irish may have only five, the evidence from Continental Celtic is considered rather unambiguous despite appeals to archaic retentions or morphological leveling. These cases were nominative, vocative, accusative, dative, genitive, ablative, locative and instrumental.\n\nNouns fall into nine or so declensions, depending on the stem. There are *\"o\"-stems, *\"ā\"-stems, *\"i\"-stems, *\"u\"-stems, dental stems, velar stems, nasal stems, *\"r\"-stems and *\"s\"-stems.\n\n\nE.g. *\"ɸlāmā\" 'hand' (feminine) (Old Irish \"lám\"; Welsh \"llaw\", Cornish \"leuv\", Old Breton \"lom\")\n\nE.g. *\"wolkās\" 'hawker' (masculine) (Gallic Latinised \"Volcae\")\n\nE.g. *\"sūlis\" 'sight, view, eye' (feminine) (Brittonic \"sulis\" ~ Old Irish \"súil\")\n\nE.g. *\"mori\" 'body of water, sea' (neuter) (Gallic \"Mori\"- ~ Old Irish \"muir\" ~ Welsh \"môr\")\n\nE.g. *\"bitus\" 'world, existence' (masculine) (Gallic \"Bitu\"- ~ Old Irish \"bith\" ~ Welsh \"byd\" ~ Breton \"bed\")\n\nE.g. *\"dānu\" 'valley river' (neuter?)\n\nBefore the *-\"s\" of the nominative singular, a velar consonant was fricated to *-\"x\" : *\"rīg\"- \"king\" > *\"rīxs\". Likewise, final *-\"d\" devoiced to *-\"t\"-: *\"druwid\"- \"druid\" > *\"druwits\".\n\nE.g. *\"rīxs\" 'king' (masculine) (Gallic -\"rix\"; Old Irish \"rí\"; Middle Welsh \"rhi\", Old Breton \"ri\")\n\nE.g. *\"druwits\" 'druid' (masculine) (Gallic \"druis\"; Old Irish \"druí\"; Middle Welsh \"dryw\" \"druid; wren\", Old Cornish \"druw\")\n\nE.g. *\"karnuxs\" 'carnyx' (masculine?)\n\nE.g. *\"karants\" 'friend' (masculine) (Gallic \"carant\"-; Old Irish \"cara\"; Welsh \"câr\" \"kinsman; friend\", pl. \"ceraint\", Breton \"kar\" \"relative\", pl. \"kerent\")\n\nGenerally, nasal stems end in *-\"on\"-; this becomes *-\"ū\" in the nominative singular: *\"abon-\" \"river\" > *\"abū.\"\n\nE.g. *\"abū\" 'river' (feminine) (Welsh \"afon\", Breton (obs.) \"aven\", Scottish Gaelic \"abhainn\")\n\nE.g. *\"anman\" 'name' (neuter) (Gaulish \"anuan\"-; Old Irish \"ainm\"; Breton \"anv\"; Welsh \"enw\")\n\nGenerally, *\"s\"-stems end in *-\"es\"-, which becomes *-\"os\" in the nominative singular: *\"teges\"- 'house' > *\"tegos\".\n\nE.g. *\"tegos\" 'house' (masculine), Irish \"teach\", \"tigh\"; Welsh \"tŷ\", Breton \"ti\".\n\n\nE.g. *\"ɸatīr\" 'father' (masculine)\n\nE.g. *\"mātīr\" 'mother' (feminine)\n\nFrom comparison between early Old Irish and Gaulish forms it seems that Continental and Insular Celtic verbs were to develop differently and so the study of Irish and Welsh may have unduly weighted past opinion of proto-Celtic verbal morphology. It can be inferred from Gaulish and Celtiberian as well as Insular Celtic that the proto-Celtic verb had at least three moods:\nand four tenses:\nA probable optative mood also features in Gaulish (\"tixsintor\") and an infinitive (with a characteristic ending \"-unei\") in Celtiberian.\n\nVerbs were formed by adding suffixes to a verbal stem. The stem might be thematic or athematic, an open or a closed syllable.\n\nScholarly reconstructions may be summarised in tabular format.\n\n\n\nProto-Celtic is mostly dated to roughly 800 BC (Hallstatt C), see Celtic languages.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century a number of scholars addressed this question using computational methods, with differing results. Gray and Atkinson estimated a date of 6100 BP (4100 BC) while Forster and Toth suggest a date of 3200 BC ±1500 years for the arrival of Celtic in Britain, but such early dates are not generally accepted.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nThe Leiden University has compiled etymological dictionaries of various IE languages, a project supervised by Alexander Lubotsky and which includes a Proto-Celtic dictionary by Ranko Matasović. Those dictionaries published by Brill in the Leiden series have been removed from the University databases for copyright reasons. Alternatively, a reference for Proto-Celtic vocabulary is provided by the University of Wales at the following sites:\n"}
{"id": "38906160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906160", "title": "Scholia Sinaitica", "text": "Scholia Sinaitica\n\nThe Scholia Sinaitica are fragments of a work of Roman law written in Greek, dating between 438 and 529 AD, containing comments to the books 35-38 of Ulpian's \"ad Sabinum\" treatise.\n\nThe papyrus fragments that show parts of the work were discovered by the Greek scholar Gregorios Bernardakis in the 19th century in a Mount Sinai convent.\n\nThe scroll is not the work of a single author, but of different authors at different times who are generally thought to be of Eastern origin. The literature suggests that the authors were connected to the Law School of Beirut, they cite numerous works of Roman jurists, texts from imperial constitutions and also the \"Codex Gregorianus\", the \"Codex Hermogenianus\" and the \"Codex Theodosianus,\" demonstrating knowledge and availability of legal texts of Roman law broader than that demonstrated by contemporary authors of the western part of the empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "31449788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31449788", "title": "Seven Wonders of Colombia", "text": "Seven Wonders of Colombia\n\nThe Seven Wonders of Colombia () was a 2007 competition sponsored by \"El Tiempo\". The newspaper asked readers to nominate and vote for man-made structures whose engineering, architectural or historical value deserved special recognition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2310881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310881", "title": "Spider-Ham", "text": "Spider-Ham\n\nSpider-Ham (Peter Porker) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is a 'funny animal' parody of Spider-Man, and was created by Tom DeFalco and Mark Armstrong.\n\nHe first appeared in the one-shot humor comic book \"Marvel Tails Starring Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" #1, which was then followed by an ongoing bi-monthly series, \"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" under Marvel's Star Comics imprint. The character existed on Larval Earth, which was an anthropomorphic universe.\n\nPeter Porker was born a spider (simply named Peter). He resided in the basement lab of May Porker, a slightly goofy animal scientist who had created \"the world's first atomic powered hairdryer\", hoping that \"the introduction of nuclear fusion into America's beauty salons\" would \"revolutionize the hair care industry\". After dousing her head with water and activating the dryer, May Porker accidentally irradiated herself, and in a fit of delusion, bit Peter, who then found himself transformed into an anthropomorphic swine much like May Porker herself. Running from the Porker homestead disoriented, Peter soon came to realize that he still retained a spider's abilities:\n\n\"This is astounding! Am I a spider with the limitations of a pig? Or a pig with the proportionate strength and agility of a spider? I've become something greater than either spider or pig... I've become a Spider-Ham!\" - \"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" #15 (May 1987)\n\nAfter this startling series of events, Peter (who adopted the surname \"Porker\", that of his benefactor May Porker, who after the accident mentally attuned to a state in which she believed she was Peter's loving aunt) dedicated himself and his new-found abilities to fighting injustice and the occasional animal parody of established Marvel Comics villains. May Porker's scientific genius was transferred to Peter, giving him the know-how to devise his webspinner gauntlets to replace his lost natural ability. This story contradicted a detail in \"Salad Daze\" (\"Spider-Ham\" #6) where Peter Porker, in a vigil at May Porker's hospital bed, thinks back to his pre-Spider-Ham years when he was just a young pig being raised by his loving aunt.\n\nPorker, in his spider-themed alter-ego's first adventure teamed up with Captain Americat, as they attempted to foil the nefarious plot of \"The Marauder\", in a series of events that led to the creation of the Hulk-Bunny (\"Marvel Tails\" #1, \"If He Should Punch Me\").\n\nSeveral months later, Spider-Ham encountered his main nemesis and one of his only re-occurring enemies in the form of Ducktor Doom, a duck parody of Doctor Doom (\"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" #1, \"The Mysterious Island of Ducktor Doom\"). Spider-Ham would meet again with Doom when Porker would foil the would-be world conqueror's plot to create an army of living super vegetables (\"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" #6, \"Salad Daze\").\n\nOther notable menaces Porker would face along the way include the Bull-Frog (a parody of the Marvel villain Man-Bull), the Buzzard (an opossum take on the Spider-Man adversary the Vulture), Hogzilla (a swine counterpart to the more popular Godzilla), and the King-Pig (seemingly the swine equivalent of Marvel's mob-boss the Kingpin).\n\nThree characters, not parallels to anybody in the Spider-Man series, also begin in #1: J. Jeremiah Jackal, Jr. (J. Jonah Jackal's nephew), Bunson Bunny and Upton Adam Stray (a cat with shades), all junior trainees at the Daily Beagle. They acquire super-powers in #15, encouraging Spider-Ham in his already made decision to abandon his super-hero career. But they totally fumble their first mission, forcing Peter Porker to resume his alterego as Spider-Ham. Further misadventures of the Beagle Brigadeers were in the back-up stories in \"Marvel Tales\".\n\nThe series also included back-up stories featuring such characters as Deerdevil (Daredevil), Goose Rider (Ghost Rider) and the Fantastic Fur (the Fantastic Four). Some of these back-ups were contradictory, presenting different anthropomorphic versions of characters in different stories, such as two Namor counterparts: the Sub-Merchandizer (a dog) and the Sub-Marsupial (possibly a wombat). (Note: the Asinine Torch (a donkey) that appeared in a story with the Sub-Marsupial and the Fantastic Fur's Simian Torch are not two variants of the Fantastic Four's Human Torch; since he was depicted as elderly in the 1980s, and referred to as an \"old sparring partner\" of the Sub-Marsupial's, he was obviously a counterpart to the Golden Age Human Torch.)\n\nWhen Spider-Ham accidentally travels to the \"Marvel Zombies\" universe, he is suddenly zombified by a group of zombies, namely Colonel America, Hulk, and Wolverine. It appears that he is directly shot in the head by an energy bullet by Earth 616's Ultron, effectively killing him but, in a zombie state, Spider-Ham turned into Ham-ibal Lecter. \n\nDuring the \"Spider-Verse\" storyline which featured Spider-Men from various alternate realities, Spider-Ham became a member of the Spider-Army fighting against the Inheritors. He played a crucial role in the final confrontation when he switches places with Benjy Parker (the baby brother of Spider-Girl of Earth-982) - one of the three sacrifices needed for the Inheritors to destroy the Spider-Totems - allowing Ben Parker to get Benjy to safety.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" event when all universes were destroyed and their remains formed a single planet called Battleworld, Spider-Ham found himself the only pig in the domain of the Battleworld called Arachnia and ended up as the captive of its Mayor, Norman Osborn. He was rescued by Spider-Gwen, and the two eventually discovered and teamed up with other spider-powered people (Spider-Man Noir, , Spider-UK and Anya Corazon), neither of whom remembered their previous encounter during the original \"Spider-Verse\".\n\nFollowing the conclusion of \"Secret Wars\" the team of six Spiders that formed during the event will rename itself and feature in a new ongoing series called \"Web Warriors\", a name that was coined by Peter Parker from the \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" TV series during the original \"Spider-Verse\".\n\nSpider-Ham was first featured as star of the 1983 humorous one-shot \"Marvel Tails\", with a backup cast of other anthropomorphic funny-animal parodies of popular Marvel Comics characters, such as Captain AmeriCat (a cat version of Captain America), Hulk-Bunny (a rabbit version of Hulk) and Goose Rider (a goose version of Ghost Rider).\n\nTwo years later, a solo series, titled \"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\" debuted under Marvel's Star Comics imprint. The series, published bi-monthly, lasted seventeen issues before its cancellation in 1987. With the cancellation of \"Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham\", the character became a backup feature in \"Marvel Tales\", a monthly reprint series showcasing Spider-Man's past adventures. Beginning with issue #201 (cover dated July 1987), these new Spider-Ham stories appeared in issues #201-212, 214-219, 223-230, 233, 236, 237, 239, 240, and 247 before ceasing altogether.\n\nIn issue #3 of \"What The--?!\" (cover dated October 1988), Porker meets with Raven the Hunter (a parody of Spider-Man's nemesis Kraven the Hunter) in a story that satirized the popular \"Kraven's Last Hunt\" storyline which had been featured a year earlier in Marvel's Spider-Man titles. Spider-Ham also makes appearances in issues #18, 20, 22, and 24 of \"What The--?!\" The 26th issue of \"What The--?!\" (cover dated fall 1993) features \"Spider-Ham 15.88\", a humorous take-off on Peter Parker's future counterpart, Miguel O'Hara a.k.a. \"Spider-Man 2099\". The \"15.88\" is not seen as a year, but rather a humorous take on the price of a ham (the cover states that it was marked down from the original price of $20.99).\n\nSpider-Ham has also appeared on the cover \"Wha...Huh?\" #1, and was referred to as a fictional character in the Earth-616 Marvel Universe, in \"Generation X\" #52.\n\n\"Spider-Man Family\" #1 (2005 one-shot) features a sixteen-page \"Spider-Girl\" story, in which May Parker (Peter Parker's daughter) watches a DVD showing a small portion of a fictional Spider-Ham animated series, discovering that it was created by one of Spider-Man's enemies, Jack O'Lantern. Here, Spider-Ham appears to mostly be a parody of Batman. Also in the issue, there is a partial reprint of \"Marvel Tails\" #1.\n\nSpider-Ham was selected by fans and retailers to be the focus of the final variant cover by Mike Wieringo to the \"\" crossover, \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #528. \n\nIn January 2007, J. Michael Straczynski authored the \"Ultimate Civil War Spider-Ham\" one-shot, featuring Spider-Ham's attempt to find his missing \"thought balloons\" against a Civil War parody. The story does not fit in with previously established Spider-Ham \"continuity\".\n\nTom Defalco returned to Spider-Ham's world in 2009, in the pages of \"Amazing Spider-Man Family\" #4-5. He introduces Swiney-Girl, the daughter of Spider-Ham and counterpart of Defalco's other creation Spider-Girl. Once again, the story strays away from the established, albeit loose, continuity of the original Spider-Ham stories by altering the character's origin and supporting characters, most notably in establishing Peter Porker as a natural-born pig bitten by a radioactive spider (directly mirroring Spider-Man's origin) and altering his love interest (a counterpart of Mary Jane Watson) from a water buffalo to a crane.\n\nHe fights alongside the \"X-Babies\" in issue #4 (March 2010) of their four-issue miniseries from 2009-2010.\n\nTo mark the anniversary of \"Peter Porker, The Spectacular Spider-Ham\" #1, Marvel released the \"Spider-Ham 25th Anniversary Special\" in July 2010, with Tom Defalco writing both Spider-Ham and Swiney-Girl stories. These stories feature most of Spider-Ham's original cast and origin, but incorporates the Mary Crane Watsow character from \"Amazing Spider-Man Family\" rather than her original counterpart.\n\nEarth-8311 featured anthropomorphic parodies of a variety of other Marvel characters.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn August 2009, \"TIME\" listed Spider-Ham as one of the \"Top 10 Oddest Marvel Characters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2304685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304685", "title": "Stage mother", "text": "Stage mother\n\nIn the performing arts, a stage mother is the mother of a child actor. The mother will often drive her child to auditions, make sure he or she is on the set on time, etc. The term \"stage mother\" sometimes has a negative connotation, suggesting that the individual is prone to obnoxiously demanding special treatment for her child, or suggesting that the individual has placed inappropriate pressure on her child to succeed, perhaps for reasons of vicariously living out her own dreams through the child. Entitled and grandiose demands have sometimes led to reportedly veiled threats from a stage parent.\n\nA stage mother may also be the official manager of her child (e.g., Rose Thompson Hovick, Dina Lohan, Ethel Gumm, Teri Shields, Susan Duff, etc.) — representing her child in negotiations for the professional services of her child. Such managers have often been referred to as \"momagers\" in the film industry.\n\nIn certain cases where a mother and child both work in the film industry, an automatic labeling of \"stage mother\" can be affixed to the mother without cause. Kathie Lee Gifford has been against the concept of stage mothers and had explained that when her son Cody co-starred with her in the film \"Model Behavior\", it had been on his own volition to try acting and not at her insistence. Gifford plays a stage mother in that movie.\n\nFathers have also been known to manage their children in this way, such as Joseph Jackson (patriarch of the Jackson family), Murry Wilson (father of three of The Beach Boys), Joe Simpson (father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson), Jeff Archuleta (father of \"American Idol\" runner-up David Archuleta), Mathew Knowles (father of Beyoncé and Solange Knowles) and Kit Culkin (father of Macaulay and Kieran Culkin). A historical example of such a father was Leopold Mozart, who recognized his son's musical ability at an early age and made the most of it.\n\nAbraham Quintanilla, Jr., father of Tejano superstar Selena, is credited with having discovered Selena's gift of singing; he rounded up her and her siblings as a band (Selena y Los Dinos), named for his band in his younger days.\n\nStage fathers share a similar role with parents promoting their children in professional sports. The drive to enhance their child's success, and vicariously the father's own financial furtherance and fame can include implementation of strength and exercise regimens at a young age and backhanded actions such as delaying enrollment in school so their sons will be bigger than their classmates. Lavar Ball, father of Los Angeles Laker Lonzo Ball, achieved notoriety for spurious self aggrandizement and inflation of his son's assets, including questionable claims that his son's basketball skills exceeded those of Stephen Curry, LeBron James and Russell Westbrook.\n\nA variant of the term has been a \"script mother\", or a woman writer who sees her children as a means for writing books or screenplays based on humiliating events in the child's life, to the detriment of the child, or exaggerating a child's personal problems. Script mothers can be writers, comedians or cartoonists.\n\nAn example of a script mother has been Lynn Johnston, who has been criticized for exploiting her children (and husband) in her comic strip \"For Better or for Worse\", as opposed to many cartoonists such as Charles Schultz and Berke Breathed who make up fictional characters. Johnston's children eventually had to be pulled out of school due to the constant bullying and embarrassment they received in being compared to their comic strip counterparts, and placed into a private school with tougher regulations on student conduct.\n\n\nReal-life stage mothers and their children have been a popular subject for reality television shows, including the shows \"I Know My Kid's a Star\" (2008), \"Dance Moms\" (2011-present), \"Toddlers & Tiaras\" (2008-2013) and its highly successful spinoff \"Here Comes Honey Boo Boo\" (2012-2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "2276409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276409", "title": "Steel frame", "text": "Steel frame\n\nSteel frame is a building technique with a \"skeleton frame\" of vertical steel columns and horizontal -beams, constructed in a rectangular grid to support the floors, roof and walls of a building which are all attached to the frame. The development of this technique made the construction of the skyscraper possible.\n\nThe rolled steel \"profile\" or cross section of steel columns takes the shape of the letter \"I\". The two wide flanges of a column are thicker and wider than the flanges on a beam, to better withstand compressive stress in the structure. Square and round tubular sections of steel can also be used, often filled with concrete. Steel beams are connected to the columns with bolts and threaded fasteners, and historically connected by rivets. The central \"web\" of the steel -beams is often wider than a column web to resist the higher bending moments that occur in beams.\n\nWide sheets of steel deck can be used to cover the top of the steel frame as a \"form\" or corrugated mold, below a thick layer of concrete and steel reinforcing bars. Another popular alternative is a floor of precast concrete flooring units with some form of concrete topping. Often in office buildings, the final floor surface is provided by some form of raised flooring system with the void between the walking surface and the structural floor being used for cables and air handling ducts.\n\nThe frame needs to be protected from fire because steel softens at high temperature and this can cause the building to partially collapse. In the case of the columns this is usually done by encasing it in some form of fire resistant structure such as masonry, concrete or plasterboard. The beams may be cased in concrete, plasterboard or sprayed with a coating to insulate it from the heat of the fire or it can be protected by a fire-resistant ceiling construction. Asbestos was a popular material for fireproofing steel structures up until the early 1970s, before the health risks of asbestos fibres were fully understood.\n\nThe exterior \"skin\" of the building is anchored to the frame using a variety of construction techniques and following a huge variety of architectural styles. Bricks, stone, reinforced concrete, architectural glass, sheet metal and simply paint have been used to cover the frame to protect the steel from the weather.\n\nThis is also known as LSF or Lightweight Steel Framing.\n\nThin sheets of galvanized steel can be cold formed into steel studs for use as a structural or non structural building material for both external and partition walls in both residential, commercial and industrial construction projects (pictured). The dimension of the room is established with horizontal track that is anchored to the floor and ceiling to outline each room. The vertical studs are arranged in the tracks, usually spaced 16\" apart, and fastened at the top and bottom.\n\nThe typical profiles used in residential construction are the C-shape stud and the U-shaped track, and a variety of other profiles. Framing members are generally produced in a thickness of 12 to 25 gauge. Heavy gauges, such as 12 and 14 gauge, are commonly used when axial loads (parallel to the length of the member) are high such as in loadbearing construction. Medium-heavy gauges, such as 16 and 18 gauge, are commonly used when there are no axial loads but heavy lateral loads (perpendicular to the member) such as exterior wall studs that need to resist hurricane-force wind loads along coasts. Light gauges, such as 25 gauge, are commonly used where there are no axial loads and very light lateral loads such as in interior construction where the members serve as framing for demising walls between rooms. The wall finish is anchored to the two flange sides of the stud, which varies from 1-1/4\" to 3\" thick, and the width of web ranges from 1-5/8\" to 14\". Rectangular sections are removed from the web to provide access for electrical wiring.\n\nSteel mills produce galvanized sheet steel, the base material for the manufacture of cold formed steel profiles. Sheet steel is then roll-formed into the final profiles used for framing. The sheets are zinc coated (galvanized) to prevent oxidation and corrosion. Steel framing provides excellent design flexibility due to the high strength to weight ratio of steel, which allows it to span over a long distances, and also resist wind and earthquake loads.\n\nSteel framed walls can be designed to offer excellent thermal and acoustic properties - one of the specific considerations when building using cold formed steel is that thermal bridging can occur across the wall system between the outside environment and interior conditioned space. Thermal bridging can be protected against by installing a layer of externally fixed insulation along the steel framing - typically referred to as a 'thermal break'.\n\nThe spacing between studs is typically 16 inches on center for homes exterior and interior walls depending on designed loading requirements. In office suites the spacing is 24 inches on center for all walls except for elevator and staircasewells.\n\nThe use of steel for structural purposes was initially slow. The Bessemer process in 1855 made steel production more efficient, and cheap steels, which had high tensile and compressive strengths plus good ductility were available from about 1870, but wrought and cast iron continued to satisfy most of the demand for iron-based building products, due mainly to problems of producing steel from alkaline ores. These problems, caused principally by the presence of phosphorus, were solved by Sidney Gilchrist Thomas in 1879.\n\nIt was not until 1880 that an era of construction based on reliable mild steel began. By that date the quality of steels being produced had become reasonably consistent.\n\nThe Home Insurance Building, completed in 1885, was the first to use skeleton frame construction, completely removing the load bearing function of its masonry cladding. In this case the iron columns are merely embedded in the walls, and their load carrying capacity appears to be secondary to the capacity of the masonry, particularly for wind loads. In the United States, the first steel framed building was the Rand McNally Building in Chicago, erected in 1890.\n\nThe Royal Insurance Building in Liverpool designed by James Francis Doyle in 1895 (erected 1896-1903) was the first to use a steel frame in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7517922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7517922", "title": "Tetrapharmacum", "text": "Tetrapharmacum\n\nTetrapharmacum, Latinized from the Greek τετραφάρμακος \"tetrapharmakos\" (feminine; also τετραϕάρμακον \"tetrapharmakon\") \"the \"fourfold drug\", was an ancient Greek pharmaceutical compound, a mixture of wax, pine resin, pitch and animal fat, most often pork fat.\n\nThe word \"tetrapharmakos\" has been used metaphorically by 1st-century Epicureans to refer to the four Κύριαι Δόξαι (\"chief doctrines\") or remedies for healing the soul.\n\nApparently named after this unprepossessing concoction, \"tetrapharmacum\"(or \"\"tetrafarmacum\") was a complicated and expensive dish in Roman Imperial cuisine. \nIt contained sow's udder, pheasant, wild boar and ham in pastry. The only surviving source of information on the tetrafarmacum is the \"Augustan History\", which mentions it three times. All three mentions are credited to the now-lost biography of Hadrian by Marius Maximus. According to this source, the Caesar Lucius Aelius (died 138) invented the dish; his senior colleague, the Emperor Hadrian, liked it; a later emperor, Alexander Severus, liked it too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18450143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18450143", "title": "Turkey City Writer's Workshop", "text": "Turkey City Writer's Workshop\n\nTurkey City Writer's Workshop is a peer-to-peer, professional science fiction writer's workshop in Texas. Founded in 1973 and still ongoing today, it was consciously modeled after the east coast Milford Writer's Workshop. The workshop \"was a cradle of cyberpunk\" where many of the practitioners of what would become cyberpunk first met.\n\nFounding members of the group included Lisa Tuttle, Howard Waldrop, Steven Utley, and Tom Reamy. The workshop was first held in Grand Prairie, Texas, but soon shifted to Austin when most of the writers involved moved there during the mid-1970s. Bruce Sterling was one of the youngest members of the workshop when he joined it in 1974. Harlan Ellison \"discovered\" Sterling at Turkey City and arranged for the publication of his first novel. Other writers who have attended Turkey City include Ted Chiang, Paul Di Filippo, Cory Doctorow, Andy Duncan, George Alec Effinger, Mark Finn, Steven Gould, Eileen Gunn, Leigh Kennedy, John Kessel, Rick Klaw, Raph Koster, George R. R. Martin, Maureen McHugh, Paul O. Miles, Chris Nakashima-Brown, Chad Oliver, Lawrence Person, Jessica Reisman, Chris Roberson, Jayme Lynn Blaschke, Lewis Shiner, Lou Antonelli, John Shirley, Jeff VanderMeer, Don Webb, Martha Wells, and Connie Willis.\n\nThe workshop also compiled \"The Turkey City Lexicon,\" a collection of terms used when discussing recurring SF writing tropes. This guide for writers has been used and adapted by other writers workshops, both within and outside the science fiction genre.\n"}
{"id": "37788719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37788719", "title": "Turn-taking", "text": "Turn-taking\n\nTurn-taking is a type of organization in conversation and discourse where participants speak one at a time in alternating turns. In practice, it involves processes for constructing contributions, responding to previous comments, and transitioning to a different speaker, using a variety of linguistic and non-linguistic cues.\n\nWhile the structure is generally universal, that is overlapping talk is generally avoided and silence between turns is minimized turn-taking conventions vary by culture and community. Conventions vary in many ways, such as how turns are distributed, how transitions are signaled, or how long is the average gap between turns.\n\nIn many contexts, conversation turns are a valuable means to participate in social life and have been subject to competition. It is often thought that turn-taking strategies differ by gender; consequently, turn-taking has been a topic of intense examination in gender studies. While early studies supported gendered stereotypes, such as men interrupting more than women and women talking more than men, recent research has found mixed evidence of gender-specific conversational strategies, and few overarching patterns have emerged.\n\nIn conversation analysis, turn-taking organization describes the sets of practices speakers use to construct and allocate turns. The organization of turn-taking was first explored as a part of conversation analysis by Harvey Sacks with Emanuel Schegloff and Gail Jefferson in the late 1960s/early 1970s, and their model is still generally accepted in the field.\n\nTurn-taking structure within a conversation has three components:\nThis order of steps serves to maintain two important elements of conversation: one person speaking at a time and minimized space between when one person stops talking and another begins. Because the system is not optimized for fairness or efficiency, and because turn-taking is not reliant on a set number or type of participants, there are many variations in how turn-taking occurs.\n\nAnother cue associated with turn-taking is that of timing. Within turn-taking, timing may cue the hearer to know that they have a turn to speak or make an utterance. Due to the very nature of turn-taking and that it is dependent on the context, timing varies within a turn and may be subjective within the conversation. Vocal patterns, such as pitch, specific to the individual also cue the hearer to know how the timing will play out in turn-taking.\n\nDeborah Tannen also shows timing differences in relation to turn-taking. For a particular study, she used a recording of a conversation between a group of her friends at dinner. The group included men and women from across the United States of mixed ethnicities. She concluded that while the amount of space left between speakers may differ, it differs most dramatically between people from different regions. For instance, New Yorkers tend to overlap in conversation, while Californians tend to leave more space between turns and sentences.\n\nWhen more than one person is engaging in a conversation, there is potential for overlapping or interruption while both or many parties are speaking at the same time. Overlapping in turn-taking can be problematic for the people involved. \nThere are four types of overlap including terminal overlaps, continuers, conditional access to the turn, and chordal. Terminal overlaps occur when a speaker assumes the other speaker has or is about to finish their turn and begins to speak, thus creating overlap. Continuers are a way of the hearer acknowledging or understanding what the speaker is saying. As noted by Schegloff, such examples of the continuer's phrases are \"mm hm\" or \"uh huh.\" Conditional access to the turn implies that the current speaker yields their turn or invites another speaker to interject in the conversation, usually as collaborative effort. Another example that Schegloff illustrates is a speaker invited another to speak out of turn when finding a word in a word search. Chordal consists of a non-serial occurrence of turns; meaning both speakers' turns are occurring at once, such as laughter. \nIt should be noted that the above types of overlap are considered to be non-competitive overlap in conversation.\n\nSchegloff suggested an overlap resolution device, which consists of 3 parts: \n\nGail Jefferson proposed a categorization of overlaps in conversation with three types of overlap onsets: transitional overlap, recognitional overlap and progressional overlap.\n\nHarvey Sacks, one of the first to study conversation, found a correlation between keeping only one person speaking at a time and controlling the amount of silences between speakers. Although there is no limit or specific requirement for the number of speakers in a given conversation, the number of conversations will rise as the number of participants rise.\n\nOverlaps can often be seen as problematic in terms of turn-taking, with the majority of research being between cooperative versus competitive overlap. One theory by Goldberg (1990) argues the dynamic relationship between overlap and power over the conversation by suggesting that two types of overlap are power interruptions and displays of rapport. During conversation, a listener has an obligation to support the speaker. An interruption impedes upon this obligation by infringing upon the wishes of the speaker (which is to be heard). The difference between a power interruption or rapport is the degree to which the speakers wishes are impeded upon. Rapport interruptions contribute to the conversation in that they ultimately cooperate and collaborate with the speaker in order to reach a mutual goal of understanding. Power interruptions are generally hostile and do not cooperate with the speaker. The goals of the power interruptor are both divergent from and regardless of the goals of the speaker. Power interruptions are further categorized into two types: process control interruptions and content control interruptions. Process control interruptions involve attempts to change the topic by utilizing questions and requests, and because they return control to the original speaker are generally seen as the less threatening of the two. Content control interruptions involve attempts to change the topic by utilizing assertions or statements that are unrelated to the current topic. Content control interruptions are viewed as problematic and threatening since they seize control of both the topic and attention away from the speaker.\n\nHowever, while overlaps have the potential to be competitive, many overlaps are cooperative. Schegloff concludes that the majority of overlaps are non-problematic. Konakahara et al. explores cooperative overlap by observing 15 graduate students from 11 different lingua-cultural backgrounds in an ELF (English as a lingua franca) conversation, or an English-based conversation among individuals of multiple native languages. Two types of overlap were observed: overlaps that were continuers or assessments and did not substantially contribute to the conversation or demand attention away from the speaker, and overlaps that were questions or statements and moved the conversation forwards. The majority of overlap during the study consisted of continuers or assessments that were non-interruptive. Overlapping questions and their interactional environment were analyzed in particular. It was found that overlapping questions demonstrate the speaker's interest in the conversation and knowledge of the content, act as clarifiers, and progress the conversation. In response, speakers who are interrupted by overlapping questions continue on to clarify their meaning. This suggests that overlapping questions, while interruptive in the fact that they demand attention away from the speaker, are cooperative in nature in that they significantly contribute to achieving mutual understanding and communication.\n\nWhile Goldberg's study primarily focuses on the distinctions and characteristics between power interruptors and displays of rapport, Konakahara et al. explores the ways in which overlap, in particular overlapping questions, can be collaborative and cooperative.\n\nDuring a conversation, turn-taking may involve a cued gaze that prompts the listener that it is their turn or that the speaker is finished talking. There are two gazes that have been identified and associated with turn-taking. The two patterns associated with turn-taking are mutual-break and mutual-hold. Mutual-break is when there is a pause in the conversation and both participants use a momentary break with mutual gaze toward each other, breaking the gaze, then continuing conversation again. This type is correlated with a perceived smoothness due to a decrease in the taking of turns. Mutual-hold is when the speaker also takes a pause in the conversation with mutual gaze, but then still holds the gaze as he/she starts to speak again. Mutual-hold is associated with less successful turn-taking process, because there are more turns taken, thus more turns required to complete.\n\nDavid Langford also argues that turn-taking is an organizational system. Langford examines facial features, eye contact, and other gestures in order to prove that turn-taking is signaled by many gestures, not only a break in speech. His claims stem from analysis of conversations through speech, sign language, and technology. His comparisons of English and American Sign Language show that turn-taking is systematic and universal across languages and cultures. His research concludes that there is more to turn-taking than simply hearing a pause. As other researchers have shown, eye gaze is an important signal for participants of a conversation to pay attention to. Usually, whoever is speaking will shift their gaze away from the other participants involved in the conversation. When they are finished or about to be finished speaking the speaker will revert their gaze back to the participant that will speak next.\n\nTurn-taking is developed and socialized from very early on – the first instances being the interactions between parent and child – but it can still be thought of as a learned skill, rather than an innate attribute. Conversational turn-taking is greatly affected by culture. For instance, in Japanese culture social structure and norms of interaction are reflected in the negotiation of turns in Japanese discourse, specifically with the use of backchannel, or reactive tokens (\"aizuchi\"). \"Backchannel\" refers to listener responses, mostly phatic expressions, that are made to support both the speaker's flow of speech and their right to maintain the floor in conversation. \"Aizuchi\" is simply the Japanese term for backchannel, but some linguists make a distinction since the importance of \"aizuchi\" in Japanese conversation can be considered higher than in English conversation.\n\nJapanese speakers make use of backchannel far more than American English speakers. In recorded conversations between pairs of same-sex college-age friends, Maynard (1990) found that English-speaking students used backchannel expressions such as \"uh-huh\" or \"right\", mainly at grammatical completion points. Less frequently, the English speakers moved their head or laughed while the other speaker paused or after an utterance was completed.\nB: Yeah I think I know what you mean./\nIn contrast, the Japanese speakers often produced backchannel expressions such as \"un\" or \"sō\" while their partner was speaking. They also tended to mark the end of their own utterances with sentence-final particles, and produced vertical head movements near the end of their partner's utterances.\nB:Oya kara sureba kodomo ga sureba iya/ [LAUGH]\nA:Demo oya wa ne mō saikin sō mo\nA: iwanaku-natta kedo\n\n(Translation:\nB: From your parent's view, if the child does... [LAUGH]\nA: But nowadays parents don't\nA: say those things.)\nThis demonstrates culturally different floor management strategies. The form of backchannels was similar: both Japanese and American subjects used brief utterances and head movements to signal involvement. The Japanese interlocutors, however, produced backchannels earlier and more often throughout conversation, while the Americans limited their responses mainly to pauses between turns.\n\nAdditionally, turn-taking can vary in aspects such as time, overlap, and perception of silence in different cultures, but can have universal similarities as well. Stivers et al. (2009) cross-examined ten various indigenous languages across the globe to see if there were any similar underlying foundation in turn-taking. In analyzing these languages, it was discovered that all ten languages had the same avoidance of wanting to overlap in conversation and wanting to minimize the silence between turn-taking. However, depending on the culture, there was variation in the amount of time taken between turns. Stivers claims that their evidence from examining these languages suggests that there is an underlying universal aspect to turn-taking.\n\nResearch has shown that gender is one of many factors that influence the turn-taking strategies between conversation participants. Studies of turn-taking in male-female interactions have yielded mixed results about the exact role of gender in predicting conversational patterns. Such analyses of turn-taking have analyzed conversations in various contexts ranging from verbal exchange between two romantic partners to scripted dialogue in American sitcoms. Rates of interruption are a widely researched area of turn-taking that has elicited various results that conflict with one another, reflecting inconsistencies across studies of gender and turn-taking.\n\nOne study reports that male interlocutors systematically interrupt females and tend to dominate conversations, and women are frequently treated in much the same way as children are in conversations. This interruption, however, is not due to female interlocutors’ lack of desire or initiative to speak and be heard in a conversation. \"Deep\" interruption, or interruption at least two syllables before a potential utterance boundary, is perpetuated more frequently by men, towards women, regardless of ways that women negotiate these interruptions.\n\nOther studies suggest that in certain situational contexts, the dominant participants of a conversation will interrupt others regardless of the gender of the speakers. In a study of various romantic relationships, the dominant partners were the ones who interrupted more. Neither the gender of the interrupter nor that of the interrupted partner were correlated with interruption rates.\n\nLanguage and conversation are primary ways in which social interaction is organized. Unequal conversational patterns are therefore reflective of larger power disparities between men and women. One study by Zimmerman and West found that in same-sex pair conversations, overlap and interruption tend to be equally distributed between the two interlocutors, and interruptions are clustered – that is, only a few of the pairs did all of the interrupting. For opposite-sex pairs, male interlocutors interrupt much more, and interruptions are much more widely distributed – that is, most men did it.\nGender differences in turn-taking are not invariable, however, and are related to the conditions and context of the speech. Gendered aspects of speech and turn-taking must be recognized as being reflective of the cultures in which they exist.\n\nQuestions have been raised about the correlation between interruption and dominance, and its importance to gender as opposed to other social categories. Studies done by Beattie find status difference more important than gender difference in predicting which speakers interrupted more. In another study done by Krupnick, in a classroom setting, the gender of a conversation moderator, namely the instructor, will affect the turn-taking of male and female speakers. She found that boys talk more than female students in classes taught by men, and although women may speak three times more when the instructor is female, their turns came in very short bursts. Krupnick observes that these conversations maintain a \"gender rhythm\" which cannot be separated from the academic and authoritative contexts.\n\n"}
{"id": "300545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300545", "title": "Two-step flow of communication", "text": "Two-step flow of communication\n\nThe two-step flow of communication model says that most people form their opinions under the influence of opinion leaders, who in turn are influenced by the mass media. In contrast to the one-step flow of the hypodermic needle model or magic bullet theory, which holds that people are directly influenced by mass media, according to the two-step flow model, ideas flow from mass media to opinion leaders, and from them to a wider population. Opinion leaders pass on their own interpretation of information in addition to the actual media content.\n\nThe theory is based on a 1940s study on social influence that states that media effects are indirectly established through the personal influence of opinion leaders. The majority of people receive much of their information and are influenced by the media secondhand, through the personal influence of opinion leaders.\n\nThe two-step model says that most people are not directly influenced by mass media, and instead form their opinions based on opinion leaders who interpret media messages and put them into context. Opinion leaders are those initially exposed to a specific media content, and who interpret it based on their own opinion. They then begin to infiltrate these opinions through the general public who become \"opinion followers\". These \"opinion leaders\" gain their influence through more elite media as opposed to mainstream mass media. In this process, social influence is created and adjusted by the ideals and opinions of each specific \"elite media\" group, and by these media group's opposing ideals and opinions and in combination with popular mass media sources. Therefore, the leading influence in these opinions is primarily a social persuasion.\n\nThe two-step flow of communication model hypothesizes that ideas flow from mass media to opinion leaders, and from them to a wider population. It was first introduced by sociologist Paul Lazarsfeld \"et al.\" in 1944 and elaborated by Elihu Katz and Lazarsfeld in 1955 and subsequent publications. Lowery and DeFleur argue the book was much more than a simple research report: it was an effort to interpret the authors' research within a framework of conceptual schemes, theoretical issues, and research findings drawn broadly from the scientific study of small groups Unlike the hypodermic needle model, which considers mass media effects to be direct, the two-step flow model stresses human agency.\n\nFor example, in the field of science communication, Matthew Nisbet describes the use of opinion leaders as intermediaries between scientists and the public as a way to reach the public via trained individuals who are more closely engaged with their communities, such as \"teachers, business leaders, attorneys, policymakers, neighborhood leaders, students, and media professionals.\" Examples of initiatives that take this approach include Science & Engineering Ambassadors, sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, and Science Booster Clubs, coordinated by the National Center for Science Education.\n\nAccording to Lazarsfeld and Katz, mass media information is channeled to the \"masses\" through opinion leadership. The people with most access to media, and having a more literate understanding of media content, explain and diffuse the content to others.\n\nBased on the two-step flow hypothesis, the term \"personal influence\" came to illustrate the process intervening between the media's direct message and the audience's reaction to that message. Opinion leaders tend to be similar to those they influence—based on personality, interests, demographics, or socio-economic factors. These leaders tend to influence others to change their attitudes and behaviors. The two-step theory refined the ability to predict how media messages influence audience behavior and explains why certain media campaigns do not alter audiences' attitudes. This hypothesis provided a basis for the two-step flow theory of mass communication.\n\nIn the times of digital social media, the more than six decade old theory sparks much new interest. The fact that massive databases are being used to send tailor-made messages to individuals lead back to the idea of a \"one-step flow of communication\". The idea is a kind of Hypodermic needle / magic bullet model, with the capacity of big data analytics informed mass customization. Empirical studies by other scholars, in contrast, have found that modern social media platforms, like Twitter, exhibit clear evidence of a two-step flow of communication (see Figure). Many social media users obtain their news from celebrities or other amplifying opinion leaders, who again get informed by mass media or by individuals with specific insights. The fine-grained digital footprint of social media also suggests that there are more than simply the one-step and two-step modes of communication flow, leading the search for more complex Multistep Flow Models based on distinct network structures.\n\nPaul Lazarsfeld and Elihu Katz are considered to be the founders of functional theory and their book \"Personal Influence\" (1955) is considered to be the handbook to the theory.\n\nOne of the first to embark on Communications research, was the first to introduce the difference between 'administrative research' and 'critical research' in regards to the media. Critical research he believed, criticizes the media institutions themselves for the perspective ways they serve dominant social groups. Critical research favors interperspective and inductive methods of inquiry.\n\nLazarsfeld's study of the 1940 presidential election was published as \"The People's Choice\" (1944). During the research revealed information about the psychological and social processes that influence voting decisions. The study also uncovered an influence process that Lazarsfeld called \"opinion leadership.\" He concluded that there is a multistep flow of information from the mass media to persons who serve as opinion leaders which then is passed on to the general public. He called this communication process the \"two-step flow of communication\".\n\nElihu Katz was a professor in the School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania when he collaborated with Lazarsfeld in 1955. Their research aimed to observe the flow of influence at the intersections of mass and interpersonal communication and resulted in the book \"Personal Influence\". Katz pursued Lazarfeld's research in a study of the flow of information, which is the basis of \"Personal Influence\". Katz and Lazarsfeld concluded that:\n\"... the traditional image of the mass persuasion process must make room for 'people' as intervening factors between the stimuli of the media and resultant opinions, decisions, and actions.\"\n\nThe presidential election of 1940 saw President Franklin Roosevelt seek an unprecedented third term in office. Funded by grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, Life magazine, and the pollster Elmo Roper, Columbia's Office of Radio Research conducted a study of voting. It was based on a panel study of 2,400 voters in Erie County, Ohio. Paul Lazarsfeld, Bernard Berelson, and Hazel Gaudet supervised 15 interviewers, who from May–October interviewed the strategically selected 2,400 members of the community several different times in order to document their decision making process during the campaign. They focused on what factors would influence their decisions as the campaign progressed.\n\"The People's Choice\", a book based on this study presented the theory of \"the two-step flow of communications\", which later came to be associated with the so-called \"limited effects model\" of mass media: the idea that ideas often flow from radio and print to local \"opinion leaders\" who in turn pass them on to those with more limited political knowledge, or \"opinion followers.\" The results of the research led to the conclusion that sometimes person to person communication can be more effective than traditional media outlets such as newspapers, TV, radio etc. This idea developed further in the book \"Personal Influence\".\n\nIn 1944, Paul Lazarsfeld contacted McFadden Publications in regards to his first book, \"The People's Choice\". The two collaborated forming a mutually beneficial partnership in which Macfadden saw a way to financially profit from advertising to the female population and Lazarsfeld saw a way to gain more information on social influence. Out of this came the study conducted by the Bureau of Applied Social Research in which 800 female residents of Decatur, Illinois, where interviewed through panel interviews to discover what and who primarily influenced their decision making. Lazarsfeld worked with Robert Merton and thus hired C. Wright Mills to head the study. Another part of the research team, Thelma Ehrlich Anderson, trained local Decatur women to administer surveys to targeted women in town. By 1955. the Decatur study was published as part of Elihu Katz and Lazarsfeld's book \"Personal Influence\". The book concluded that ultimately, face to face interaction is more influential than traditional media influence and thus confirmed the two-step flow model of communication.\n\nThe original two-step flow hypothesis—that ideas flow from the media to opinion leaders and then to less active sections of the population—has been criticized and negated by myriad consequent studies. Findings from Deutschmann and Danielson assert, \"we would urge that the Katz-Lazarsfeld two-stage flow hypothesis, as a description of the initial information process, be applied to mass communication with caution\". They find substantial evidence that initial mass media information flows directly to people on the whole and is not relayed by opinion leaders.\n\nFurthermore, the two-step hypothesis does not adequately describe the flow of learning. Everett Rogers' \"Diffusion of Innovations\" cites one study in which two-thirds of respondents accredited their awareness to the mass media rather than face-to-face communication. Similarly, critics argue that most of Lazarsfeld's findings pertain to learning factors involved with general media habits rather than the learning of particular information. Both findings suggest a greater prevalence of a one-step flow of communication.\n\nHowever, Lazarsfeld's two-step hypothesis is an adequate description to understand the media's influence on belief and behavior. Troldahl finds that media exposure is a first step to introduce discussion, at which point opinion leaders initiate the second-step flow. These findings also realize opinion leaders' decisive role in the balance theory, which suggests that people are motivated to keep consistency among their current beliefs and opinions. If a person is exposed to new observations that are inconsistent with present beliefs, he or she is thrown into imbalance. This person will then seek advice from their opinion leader, to provide them with additional cognitions to bring them back into balance. In addition, this theory may be valid during the era when opinion leaders were the only ones to have easy access to media contents. Today, there is a free flow of information so that anybody could have access to media contents without relying substantially on opinion leaders.\n\nEmpirical research that analyzes vast databases from communication flows in social media finds that today's digital media landscape simultaneously facilitate one-step, two-step and more complex multi-step flow models of communication. For example, in Twitter networks it is no contradiction that average Twitter users mainly mention intermediating opinion leaders in their tweets (two-step flow), while at the same time traditional mass media outlets receive 80-90 % of their mentions directly through a direct one-step flow from the same users. This shows that the two-step model does not seem to be dead, nor obsolete, but simply one of several ways communication flows in modern networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062997", "title": "Western religions", "text": "Western religions\n\nWestern religions refer to religions that originated within Western culture, and are thus historically, culturally, and theologically distinct from the Eastern religions. The term Abrahamic religions (Islam, Eastern Christianity and Judaism) is often used in lieu of using the East and West terminology.\n\nWestern culture itself was significantly influenced by the emergence of Christianity and its adoption as the state church of the Roman Empire in the late 4th century and the term \"Christendom\" largely indicates this intertwined history. Western Christianity was significantly influenced by Hellenistic religion (notably Platonism and Gnosticism) as well as the Roman imperial cult. Western Christianity is based on Roman Catholicism (Latin Rite), as opposed to Eastern Orthodoxy, from which it was divided by the Great Schism of the 11th century, and further includes all Protestant traditions splitting off Roman Catholicism from the 16th century.\n\nSince the 19th century, Western religion has diversified into numerous new religious movements, including Occultism, Spiritism and diverse forms of Neopaganism.\n\n\"The West\" as a culture or civilization historically evolved out of Greco-Roman classical antiquity. These cultures had polytheistic religions, viz. Greek polytheism and Roman polytheism. \"Eastern\" influences on these religions are evident from earliest times, the Orientalizing period at the very beginning of Greek antiquity.\n\nDuring Hellenism and the Roman Empire period, \"Eastern\" (Oriental) religions exerted a considerable influence on \"Western\" religion, giving rise to Persian influenced traditions like Gnosticism and Mithraism, as well as Egyptian and \"Chaldean\" influence on mystery religions (Orphism), astrology and magic. Early Christianity itself is a further example of Orientalizing influence on the later Roman Empire.\n\nDuring the same period, inherited traditions of native Roman religion were marginalized or overlaid by \"interpretatio graeca\", and the Roman imperial cult evolved into a civil religion which involved state ritual rather than religious faith or experience. Celtic and Germanic religion was described by Roman ethnography as primitive, but at the same time as pure or unspoiled compared to the so-called urban decadence of Rome.\n\nWestern Christianity is based on Roman Catholicism (Latin Rite), as opposed to Eastern Orthodoxy, from which it was divided by the Great Schism of the 11th century. Western Christianity itself was divided by the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century, and pronouncedly \"Western\" forms of Christianity include Puritanism and Evangelicalism, movements resulting from the various \"Great Awakenings\" in the 18th to 20th century English-speaking world and popularly practiced in the United States.\n\nFor at least a millennium and a half, Europe has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture. The Christian culture was the predominant force in Western civilization, guiding the course of philosophy, art, music, science, social structure and architecture.\n\nFollowing the religious wars of the 16th to 17th centuries, the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century paved the way for a detachment of society and politics from religious questions. Inspired by the American Revolution, the French Revolution brought the ideal of secularization and a laicist state granting freedom of religion to Europe. After the turmoils of the Napoleonic Wars, this development caught hold in other parts of Europe, by means of the German mediatization and the separation of church and state in numerous European constitutions drawn up after the revolutions of 1848.\n\nThe principle of religious freedom introduced in Western society in the early 19th century facilitated the emergence of numerous new religious movements. Early examples were derived from western occultism and the tradition of secret societies such as the Freemasons, but from the later 19th century, influence of Eastern religions, notably Buddhism and Hinduism played an increasing role. From the mid 20th century, Eastern and Western spiritual traditions were increasingly syncretized in the various movements associated with the New Age and Neopagan countercultures.\n\nThe Western world, taken as consisting of Europe, the Americas, Australia-New Zealand and (in part) South Africa and Philippines, remains predominantly Western Christian: 77.4% in North America (2012), 90% in Latin America (2011), close to 76.2% in Europe (2010), (includes 35% of European Christians who are Eastern Orthodox especially in Eastern Europe, 76%, not properly part of \"Western religion\", 46% of European Christians are Roman Catholic, 18% of European Christians are Protestant), 61.1% in Australia-New Zealand (2011), 79% in South Africa and 90% in the Philippines.\n\nThe second largest religions in all these regions are smaller by at least an order of magnitude, Islam in Europe (6%) with about 4%, Islam in Canada with about 2%, Judaism in the United States with about 1.7%, and Islam in Australia with about 1.7%.\n\nMost non-Christians in the Western world are irreligious, 22% in Australia, 40% in New Zealand, 18.2% in Europe, 16.4% in the USA and 16% in Canada, (Latin America, South Africa and Philippines are more religious). This is a reflection of the tradition of secular humanism which culminated in the 18th century Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThroughout the Western world paganism is becoming increasingly popular.\n\nThere remains a minority of the order of 5% of the population in the Western world which adheres to non-Western religions, mostly due to recent immigration, but to some extent also due to proselytization, notably conversion to various sects of Buddhism and Hinduism in the context of the New Age movement in the later part of the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "53249637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53249637", "title": "Wind from the East", "text": "Wind from the East\n\nWind from the East () is a 1970 film by the Dziga Vertov Group, a radical filmmaking cooperative that, at its core, included Jean-Luc Godard and Jean-Pierre Gorin. As with most films from this period in Godard's career, directing credit was given to the collective and not himself or other individual filmmakers.\n\nOf the Dziga Vertov Group films, \"Wind from the East\" became particularly notable due to Peter Wollen's influential essay about it: \"Godard and Counter Cinema: \"Vent d'est\".\" Wollen contends that \"Wind from the East\" exemplifies how Brechtian principles of \"epic theatre\" can be applied to film as \"counter cinema.\"\n\nThe film reflects Gorin and (especially) Godard's interest in divorcing sound from image, as a means of reinventing the language of \"bourgeois\" commercial cinema.\n\nThe soundtrack of the film begins with the story of a kidnapped ALCOA executive but abruptly changes the subject to a lengthy lecture on the history and political context of revolutionary cinema, including Marxist-Leninist self-critique, and a critique of Hollywood's film industry. The visual component of the film features an outdoor natural setting and characters in what appears to be a spaghetti Western film (or a parody thereof). The two components, while separate, frequently interact; the soundtrack occasionally refers to the cinematic tropes that appear onscreen, while the story told in the visuals contains dialogue and sound that overlaps and competes with the primary soundtrack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185421", "title": "World Rugby Sevens Series", "text": "World Rugby Sevens Series\n\nThe World Rugby Sevens Series is an annual series of international rugby sevens tournaments run by World Rugby featuring national sevens teams. The series, organised for the first time in the 1999–2000 season, was formed to develop an elite-level competition series between rugby nations and develop the sevens game into a viable commercial product for World Rugby. The competition was originally known as the IRB World Sevens Series, but has been known officially as the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series since 2014 due to sponsorship from banking group HSBC.\n\nThe season's circuit consists of 10 tournaments that generally begin in November or December and last until May. The venues are held across 10 countries, and visits five of the six populated continents. The United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, Canada, Hong Kong, Singapore, France and England each host one event. Each tournament has 16 teams — 15 core teams that participate in each tournament and one regional qualifier. \n\nTeams compete for the World Series title by accumulating points based on their finishing position in each tournament. The lowest placed core team at the end of the season is dropped, and replaced by the winner of the Hong Kong Sevens. New Zealand had originally dominated the Series, winning each of the first six seasons from 1999–2000 to 2004–05, but since then, Fiji, South Africa and Samoa have each won season titles. England and Australia have placed in the top three on multiple occasions, but neither has won the series. The International Olympic Committee's decision in 2009 to add rugby sevens to the Summer Olympics beginning in 2016 has added a boost to rugby sevens and to the World Sevens Series; this boost has led to increased exposure and revenues, leading several of the core teams to field fully professional squads. \n\nThe first international rugby sevens tournament was held in 1973 in Scotland, which was celebrating a century of the Scottish Rugby Union. Seven international teams took part, with England defeating Ireland 22–18 in the final to take the trophy. The Hong Kong Sevens annual tournament began in 1976. Over the next two decades the number of international sevens competitions increased. The most notable was the Rugby World Cup Sevens with Scotland hosting the inaugural event in 1993, along with rugby joining the Commonwealth Games program in 1998.\n\nThe first season of the World Sevens Series was the 1999–2000 season. At the Series launch, the chairman of the International Rugby Board, Vernon Pugh, described the IRB's vision of the role of this new competition: \"this competition has set in place another important element in the IRB’s drive to establish rugby as a truly global sport, one with widespread visibility and steadily improving standards of athletic excellence.\" New Zealand and Fiji dominated the first series, meeting in the final in eight of the ten season tournaments, and New Zealand narrowly won, overtaking Fiji by winning the last tournament of the series.\n\nNew Zealand won the first six seasons in a row from 1999–2000 to 2004–05, led by players such as Karl Te Nana and Amasio Valence. The number of stops in the series varied over the seasons, but experienced a contraction from 11 tournaments in 2001–02 to 7 tournaments in 2002–03 due to the global recession. In the 2005–06 season Fiji clinched the season trophy on the last tournament of the season finishing ahead of England. New Zealand regained the trophy in 2006–07 season in the last tournament of the season.\n\nSouth Africa was the next team to win the series after taking home the 2008–09 title. In the 2009–10 season, Samoa who finished seventh the previous year shocked the world — led by 2010 top try-scorer and World Rugby Sevens Player of the Year Mikaele Pesamino — by winning four of the last five tournaments to overtake New Zealand and win the series.\n\nThe 2011–12 season was the last to have 12 core teams as the 2011–12 series expanded to 15 teams that had core status. Qualification for these places was played out at the 2012 Hong Kong Sevens. Canada (returning to core status for the first time since 2008), Spain and Portugal joined the 12 core teams for the next season. The Japan event also made a return for the first time since 2001 (lasting until 2015). New Zealand continued their dominance by finishing on top.\n\nArgentina was originally planned to begin hosting a tenth event with Mar Del Plata the venue in the 2012–13 season, giving the tour an event on each continent, but when Argentina joined the Rugby Championship those plans were shelved. With the same schedule, New Zealand again were the winners over South Africa. They took it again in 2013–14 with Spain the first team to be relegated after finishing last during that season with Japan replacing them.\n\nHeading into the 2014–15 season, the top four teams qualifying to the 2016 Summer Olympics, with Fiji, South Africa, New Zealand and Great Britain all qualifying through. The 2014–15 season and 2015–16 season were won by Fiji — the first time a team other than New Zealand won back-to-back season titles — led by 2015 and 2016 season Dream Team nominee Osea Kolinisau The two seasons also yielded teams winning their first tournaments — the United States won the 2015 London Sevens to finish the season in sixth overall; Kenya won the 2016 Singapore Sevens, and Scotland won the 2016 London Sevens. Prior to the 2015–16 season World Rugby did a comprehensive review of all nine tournament hosts and adjusted the schedule, dropping two sites (Japan and Scotland), and adding three sites (France, Singapore and Canada) to the calendar.\n\nIn the 2016–17 series, a dominant and consistent display by South Africa saw them reach the finals of the 2016–17 series rounds on eight occasions, winning five of these. As a result, South Africa were series champions with victory in the penultimate round in Paris. The season was a qualifier for the 2018 with the top four teams that hadn't already qualified, coming from this season. The teams that made it through to the World Cup via this method were Canada, Argentina, Scotland and Samoa.\n\nThe World Series has consisted of 10 tournament stops since the 2015–16 season. \n\nMost of these tournaments began after they were added to the World Series, but with certain exceptions. The oldest running of these tournaments is the Hong Kong Sevens, which dates back to 1976. Other tournaments that pre-date the Series include the Australia Sevens (which ran from 1986 to 1989 and was then disbanded, until it returned in the 1999–2000 season as a leg on the Series) and the France Sevens which began in 1996.\n\nA group of 15 \"core teams\" is announced for each season, based on performances in the previous season, and each core team has a guaranteed place in all of that season's events. The core teams have been selected through a designated promotion/relegation process since the 2012–13 season. The core teams for the 2018–19 season are:\n\n\nThrough the 2011–12 series, the number of core teams was 12, but the number of core teams was expanded to 15 for 2012–13. The three extra teams were determined by a 12-team qualifying tournament held as part of the 2012 Hong Kong Sevens. \nThe increase in the number of core teams did not directly lead to an increase in the size of the existing tournaments.\n\nThe following promotion/relegation process has been effective since the 2013–14 series:\n\nThe World Series results are sometimes used as a qualifier for other tournaments. For example, the top four teams of the 2014–15 series automatically qualified for the 2016 Summer Olympics. Similarly, certain teams from the 2016–17 series qualified for the 2018 Rugby World Cup Sevens.\n\nUpdated after the 2017–18 season:\nRugby sevens is a fast-paced version of rugby union with seven players each side on a full-sized rugby field. Games are much shorter, lasting generally seven minutes each half. The game is quicker and faster-scoring than 15-a-side rugby, which explains part of its appeal. It also gives players the space for superb feats of individual skill. Sevens is traditionally played in a two-day tournament format. Currently, in a normal event, 16 teams are entered. \n\nWorld Rugby operates satellite tournaments in each continent alongside the Sevens World Series which serve as qualifiers for Series events; in 2012–13 they also determined the entrants in the World Series Pre-Qualifier, and from 2013–14 determine the entrants in the Core Team Qualifier.\n\nIn each tournament, the teams are divided into pools of four teams, who play a round-robin within the pool. Points are awarded in each pool on a different schedule from most rugby tournaments—3 for a win, 2 for a draw, 1 for a loss, 0 for a no-show. In case teams are tied after pool play, the tiebreakers are:\n\n\nAs of the 2009–10 series, four trophies are awarded in each tournament. In descending order of prestige, they are the Cup, whose winner is the overall tournament champion, Plate, Bowl and Shield. Each trophy is awarded at the end of a knockout tournament.\n\nIn a normal event, the top two teams in each pool advance to the Cup competition. The four quarterfinal losers drop into the bracket for the Plate. The Bowl is contested by the third and fourth-place finishers in each pool, while the Shield is contested by the losing quarterfinalists of the Bowl.\n\nA third-place match is now conducted between the losing Cup semifinalists in all tournaments; this was introduced for the 2011–12 series.\n\nIn 2012–13, the season-ending London Sevens expanded to 20 teams, with 12 competing for series points and eight involved in the Core Team Qualifier. With the promotion place now determined at the Hong Kong Sevens, the London Sevens returned to the traditional 16-team format in 2013–14. \n\nThe Hong Kong Sevens (an anomaly as a three-day event) is the most famous sevens tournament.\nThe Hong Kong Sevens had 24 teams through the 2011–12 series, but has featured 28 teams since 2012–13, with 15 core teams and the winner of the HSBC Asian Sevens Series competing for series points. At the 2013 event, the remaining 12 teams were those in the World Series Pre-Qualifier; from 2014 forward, the remaining 12 teams are those in the Core Team Qualifier.\nIn Hong Kong, the Shield was awarded for the first time in 2010.\n\nOriginally, the six pool winners of the Hong Kong Sevens, plus the two highest-finishing second-place teams, advanced to the Cup. \n\nIn 2010 and 2011, a different system was used:\n\nIn the transitional year of 2012, the Hong Kong Sevens was split into two separate competitions. The 12 core teams competed for the Cup, Plate and Bowl under a format similar to that of a regular event. The 12 invited teams all competed for the Shield, with the top three sides in that competition also earning core status for 2012–13. \n\nFrom 2013 on, the four trophies in Hong Kong will be contested under the same format used in regular 16-team tournaments. Only the 15 core teams, plus the winner of the HSBC Asian Sevens Series, now compete in the main draw of that event although from 2017 the number of trophies was reduced to just the main Cup with the showpiece final being reduced from 20 minutes to 14 minutes and the Challenge Trophy which were in line with changes which began at the start of the 2016-17 World Rugby Sevens Series.\n\nThe season championship is determined by points earned in each tournament. World Rugby introduced a new scoring system for the 2011–12 series, in which all teams participating in a tournament are guaranteed points. Initially, World Rugby announced the new points schedule only for the standard 16-team events; the allocations for the Hong Kong Sevens were announced later.\n\nThe current points schedule used at each standard event is summarised below.\n\nTie-breaking: If two or more teams are level on overall series points, the following tie-breakers are used:\n\nThe tour received 1,147 hours of air time in 2005–06; 530 of which was live, and was broadcast to 136 countries. By 2008–09, the hours of air time had increased to over 3,300, with 35 broadcasters airing the series in 139 countries and 15 languages. Broadcast time increased further in 2009–10, with 3,561 hours of air time (1,143 hours live) carried by 34 broadcasters in 141 countries and 16 languages. In 2010–11, 3,657 hours of coverage were aired (1,161 hours live), with the same number of broadcasters as the previous season but six new countries added. For that season, Sevens World Series programming was available in 332 million homes worldwide, with a potential audience of 760 million.\n\nThe International Rugby Board reached a 5-year deal with HSBC in October 2010 that granted them status as the first-ever title sponsor of the Sevens World Series. Through the agreement, HSBC acquired title naming rights to all tournaments in the World Series, beginning with the Dubai Sevens on 3 December 2010. HSBC has since sub-licensed the naming rights to individual tournaments, while retaining its name sponsorship of the overall series. A renewed, 4-year deal was announced before the 2015–16 Series, this deal was also expanded to include the World Rugby Women's Sevens Series.\n\nPlayers in bold are still active.\n\nUpdated 18 June 2018\n\nUpdated: 18 June 2018\n\nSource: World Rugby website. Updated 17 June 2018.\n\n\n"}
