{"id": "28393288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28393288", "title": ".hack//Quantum", "text": ".hack//Quantum\n\nMasaki Tachibana of Tokyo Magnitude 8.0 directed the OVA project and .hack// writer Tatsuya Hamazaki scripted. Kinema Citrus animated the series and Kow Otani composed the music score. Yuuka Nanri will be performing the theme song for .hack.Quantum. At Anime Weekend Atlanta 2011, Funimation announced that it had licensed the OVA series and it was released on DVD and Blu-ray on February 14, 2012, making it the first in the franchise not to be licensed by Bandai Entertainment. The UK release was published by MVM Entertainment on July 9, 2012.\n\nIn 2022, the story follows three players – Sakuya, Tobias, and Mary – as they play the latest version of the world's largest MMORPG: \"The World R:X\", created by Cyberconnect Corporation. When these three friends take on a quest as a party, they become caught in strange circumstances of fate.\n\n\n\n\n\nPre-orders of the theatrical release on Amazon.co.jp and animate come with a bonus Original Drama CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1287249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287249", "title": "Academy of the Arabic Language", "text": "Academy of the Arabic Language\n\nAcademy of the Arabic Language may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "98957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98957", "title": "Annie Sprinkle", "text": "Annie Sprinkle\n\nAnnie M. Sprinkle PhD (born Ellen F. Steinberg on July 23, 1954) is an American certified sexologist, sex educator, former sex worker, feminist stripper, pornographic actress, cable television host, porn magazine editor, writer, sex film producer, and sex-positive feminist. She received a BFA in photography from the School of Visual Arts in 1986 and, in 1992, she earned a doctorate (Ph.D.) in Human Sexuality from the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco. Currently, Sprinkle works as a performance artist, visual artist, filmmaker, author, and sex educator. Sprinkle, who describes herself as ecosexual married her long-time partner, Beth Stephens, in Canada on January 14, 2007.\nDr Sprinkle was born Ellen F. Steinberg on July 23, 1954, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to a Russian-Jewish mother and a Polish-Jewish father. She is known as the \"prostitute and porn star turned sex educator and artist.\" Her best known theater and performance art piece is her \"Public Cervix Announcement,\" in which she invites the audience to \"celebrate the female body\" by viewing her cervix with a speculum and flashlight. She also performed \"The Legend of the Ancient Sacred Prostitute,\" in which she did a \"sex magic\" masturbation ritual on stage. She has toured one-woman shows internationally for 17 years, some of which were titled \"Post Porn Modernist\", \"Annie Sprinkle's Herstory of Porn\", \"Hardcore from the Heart.\" She then performed two-women shows with Beth Stephens titled \"Exposed; Experiments in Love, Sex, Death and Art\", \"Dirty Sex Ecology\", \"Earthly: An Ecosex Bootcamp\", and \"Ecosex Walking Tour.\"\n\nHer work and publications, spanning over four decades, are studied in courses at numerous universities, in theater history, women's studies, performance studies, GLBTQ studies, and film studies courses. She also is a faculty member at the Oakland, California-based The New School of Erotic Touch.\n\nAs Ellen Steinberg, Dr Sprinkle began working at the ticket booth at Tucson's Plaza Cinema at 18, when \"Deep Throat\" was playing. The film was busted, and when Steinberg had to appear in court as a witness, she met and fell in love with \"Deep Throat's\" director, Gerard Damiano, and became his mistress, following him to New York City, where she lived for twenty-two years. Not long after becoming Damiano's mistress, Steinberg began working in porn herself and, at that time, started calling herself “Annie.” (Below can be found more details about the stage name she adopted.) Annie's first porn movie was \"Teenage Deviate,\" which was released in 1975. Perhaps her best known mainstream porn featured role was in \"Deep Inside Annie Sprinkle\" (co-directed by Sprinkle and sexploitation veteran Joseph W. Sarno) which was the No. 2 grossing porn film of 1981.\n\nIn 1991, Sprinkle created the \"Sluts and Goddesses\" workshop, which became the basis for her 1992 production \"The Sluts and Goddesses Video Workshop – Or How To Be A Sex Goddess in 101 Easy Steps,\" which was co-produced and co-directed with videographer Maria Beatty, and featured music by composer Pauline Oliveros. Sprinkle pioneered new genres of sexually explicit film and video such as edu-porn, gonzo, post porn, xxx docudrama, art porn, and feminist erotica. Sprinkle has also presented many sex workshops with fellow sex facilitator Barbara Carrellas, with whom she presented the stage production \"Metamorphosex.\"\n\nShe starred in Nick Zedd's experimental films \"War Is Menstrual Envy\" (1992), \"Ecstasy in Entropy\" (1999), and \"Electra Elf: The Beginning\" (2005).\n\nDr Sprinkle has appeared in almost 200 films, including hard- and softcore pornography, B movies, loops, numerous documentaries, various TV shows including four HBO \"Real Sex\" programs. She has also produced, directed, and starred in several of her own films, such as \"Annie Sprinkle's Herstory of Porn,\" \"Annie Sprinkle's Amazing World of Orgasm,\" and \"Linda/Les & Annie--The First Female to Male Transsexual Love Story.\" These films played in hundreds of film festivals, in museums and galleries. Her work in adult films earned her a spot on the Adult Star Path of Fame in Edison, New Jersey, and she was inducted to both the AVN Hall of Fame and the XRCO Hall of Fame in 1999. For three decades, she has presented her work as a visiting artist at many major universities and colleges in the US and Europe. Currently her lecture presentation is called \"My Life and Work as a Feminist Porn Activist, Radical Sex Educator, and Ecosexual.\" She has also presented dozens of \"Free Sidewalk Sex Clinics,\" offering free sex education to the public in public space.\n\nDr Sprinkle's work has always been about sexuality, with a political, spiritual, and artistic bent. In December 2005, she committed to doing seven years of art projects about love with her art collaborator and eventual wife, Beth Stephens. They called this their \"Love Art Laboratory.\" Part of their project was to do an experimental art wedding each year, and each year had a different theme and color. The seven-year structure was adapted to their project by invitation of artist Linda M. Montano. Sprinkle and Stephens have done twenty-one art weddings, eighteen with ecosexual themes. They married the Earth, Sky, Sea, Moon, Appalachian Mountains, the Sun, and other non-human entities in nine different countries.\n\nDr Sprinkle and her partner Beth Stephens became pioneers of ecosexuality, a kind of earth-loving sexual identity, which states, “The Earth is our lover.” Their Ecosex Manifesto proclaims that anyone can identify as an Ecosexual along with being “GLBTQI, heterosexual, asexual, and/or Other.”\n\nDr Sprinkle has also long championed sex worker rights and health care. She has also worked as a prostitute from 1973-1992.\n\nDr Sprinkle identifies as a sex-positive feminist, and much of her activist and sex education work reflects this philosophy. In 2009, she appeared in the French documentary film \"Mutantes: Punk, Porn, Feminism,\" speaking about the beginnings of the movement as well as her own contributions to it.\n\nIn 2017, Dr Sprinkle and her wife/collaborator Beth Stephens were official artists in Documenta 14, widely considered to be the most significant art exhibition in the world. They presented performances and visual art, lectured, and previewed their new film documentary, Water Makes Us Wet: An Ecosexual Adventure.\n\nAs noted above, Steinberg first gave herself the name “Annie” when she started working in pornography. As her career continued, she had an epiphany one night and she says that on that night,\" as if from the goddess herself,\" the name “Annie Sprinkle” came to her. She thought the name appropriate because \"I was attracted by the sprinkles over ice cones (I am a bit of a sugaraholic!) and I love waterfalls, urine, vaginal fluids, sweat, anything wet. So the name 'Annie Sprinkle' seemed perfect.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60002", "title": "Aotearoa", "text": "Aotearoa\n\nAotearoa (; commonly pronounced by English speakers as ) is the Māori name for New Zealand. Its use is becoming widespread in the bilingual names of national organisations and institutions. The term was originally used by Māori in reference to only the North Island. Since the 1990s, it has been customary to sing New Zealand's national anthem, \"God Defend New Zealand\", in both Māori and English, exposing the name to a wider audience.\n\nThe original meaning of \"Aotearoa\" is not known. The word can be broken up as: \"ao\" = cloud, dawn, daytime or world, \"tea\" = white, clear or bright and \"roa\" = long. It can also be broken up as \"Aotea\" = the name of one of the migratory waka that travelled to New Zealand, and \"roa\" = long. The common translation is \"the land of the long white cloud\". Alternative translations are ‘long bright world’ or ‘land of abiding day’ referring to the length and quality of the New Zealand daylight (when compared to the shorter days found further north in Polynesia).\n\nIn some traditional stories, Aotearoa was the name of the canoe of the explorer Kupe, and he named the land after it. Kupe's wife (in some versions, his daughter) was watching the horizon and called \"He ao! He ao!\" (\"a cloud! a cloud!\"). Other versions say the canoe was guided by a long white cloud in the course of the day and by a long bright cloud at night. On arrival, the sign of land to Kupe's crew was the long cloud hanging over it. The cloud caught Kupe's attention and he said \"Surely is a point of land\". Because of the cloud which greeted them, Kupe named the land Aotearoa. Aotearoa can also be broken up as: \"aotea-roa\". \"Aotea\" is the name of one of the Māori migration canoes. The first land sighted was accordingly named \"Aotea\" (Cloud), now Great Barrier Island. When a much larger landmass was found beyond Aotea, it was called \"Aotea-roa\" (Long Aotea).\n\nIt is not known when Māori began incorporating the name into their lore. Beginning in 1845, George Grey, Governor of New Zealand, spent some years amassing information from Māori regarding their legends and histories. He translated it into English, and in 1855 published a book called \"Polynesian Mythology And Ancient Traditional History Of The New Zealand Race\". In a reference to Maui, the culture hero, Grey's translation of the Māori read as follows:\nThus died this Maui we have spoken of; but before he died he had children, and sons were born to him; some of his descendants yet live in Hawaiki, some in \"Aotearoa\" (or in these islands); the greater part of his descendants remained in Hawaiki, but a few of them came here to \"Aotearoa\".\n\n\"Aotearoa\" was used for the name of New Zealand in the 1878 translation of the national anthem, God Defend New Zealand, by Judge Thomas H Smith of the Native Land Court, the translation still used today. Also, William Pember Reeves used \"Aotearoa\" to mean New Zealand in his history of the country published in 1898, \"The Long White Cloud Ao-tea-roa.\"\n\nIn the 19th century, \"Aotearoa\" was sometimes used to refer only to the North Island. An example of this usage appeared in the first issue of \"Huia Tangata Kotahi\", a Māori-language newspaper published on February 8, 1893. It contained the dedication on the front page, \"He perehi tenei mo nga iwi Maori, katoa, o Aotearoa, mete Waipounamu\", meaning \"This is a publication for the Māori tribes of Aotearoa and the South Island\".\n\nThe widely used name for the North Island is \"Te Ika a Māui\", The fish of Māui. The South Island was called \"Te Wai Pounamu\", The Waters Of Greenstone, or \"Te Wāhi Pounamu\", The Place Of Greenstone. In early European maps of New Zealand, such as those of Captain James Cook, garbled versions of these names are used to refer to the two islands (often spelt \"Aheinomauwe\" and \"Tovypoenammoo\").\n\nDutch explorer Abel Tasman sighted New Zealand in 1642 and named it \"Staten Land\" \"in honour of the States General\" (Dutch parliament). He wrote, \"it is possible that this land joins to the Staten Land but it is uncertain\", referring to a landmass of the same name at the southern tip of South America, discovered by Jacob Le Maire in 1616. In 1645, Dutch cartographers renamed the land \"Nova Zeelandia\" after the Dutch province of Zeeland. Captain Cook subsequently anglicised the name to New Zealand.\n\nAfter the adoption of the name \"New Zealand\" by Europeans, one name used by Māori to denote the country as a whole was \"Niu Tireni\", a transliteration of \"New Zealand\".\n\nIn 2015, to celebrate Māori Language Week, the Black Caps (the New Zealand national cricket team) played under the name Aotearoa for their first match against Zimbabwe.\n\n"}
{"id": "49823773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49823773", "title": "Archaeo-optics", "text": "Archaeo-optics\n\nArchaeo-optics, or archaeological optics, is the study of the experience and ritual use of light by ancient peoples. Archaeological optics is a branch of sensory archaeology, which explores human perceptions of the physical environment in the remote past, and is a sibling of archaeoastronomy, which deals with ancient observations of celestial bodies, and archaeological acoustics, which deals with applications of sound.\n\nResearch by several investigators around the world has uncovered how ancient peoples encountered and used the camera obscura principle for a variety of purposes. In a darkened chamber, light passing through a small opening can create haunting and ephemeral moving images, which could have triggered and reinforced ground breaking modes of thought, forms of representation, and belief in otherworldly realms.\n\nVisible light, a small portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, encompasses wavelengths between 380-750 nanometers, which humans perceive as the colors of the spectrum: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. Light behaves according to a well-defined set of rules: it travels in straight lines, unless otherwise refracted or reflected by another object, or curved by gravity.\n\nAn eye is essentially a darkened chamber with a small hole in front that allows light to enter. The lens, just behind the pupil’s aperture, is perfectly clear but appears black because the interior space behind it is dark. Rays of light pass through the lens, producing an upside-down image on the retina. The brain reorients the image. This optical process of projecting an inverted image is known as a camera obscura (from the Latin, meaning dark room). The first pinhole/camera obscura eyes evolved about 540 million years ago on a sea mollusk, known as a nautilus, during the Cambrian period. The camera obscura principle is primordial, and life on earth has evolved to take advantage of it.\n\nThe camera obscura principle is not limited to eyes, or even lenses, but works with a small hole, or aperture, and any darkened space of whatever size or shape. In modern times, camera obscuras have been fashioned from shoeboxes, oatmeal boxes, soda cans, cookie containers, seashells, eggshells, refrigerators, tents, trucks, airplane hangars, and even hollowed out forms of snow and dirt. A camera obscura can also be produced by a small hole in a roof, wall, or window-shutter through which the view of the outside is projected onto a wall inside a darkened room. Biologist Donald Perry went on an expedition into the rain forest of Costa Rica where he climbed into the cavity of a large hollow tree, and discovered a small hole that projected an upside-down image of the outside world onto the opposite interior wall of the trunk. This sort of experience is available across time.\n\nThe image created appears like an upside-down movie. A camera obscura relies on the contrast between the bright exterior world and a dim interior space, so that a greater contrast produces a more obvious projected image. Absolute darkness in the interior is not necessary, but there must be a significant difference between the two illumination levels.\n\nThe archaeological record is replete with excavations of built structures across time, but due to the natural decay of materials and the vagaries of preservation, the further backward in time, the less likely it is for artifacts to have survived. For example, Paleolithic shelter constructions from the Lower Paleolithic (c. 2,600,000 - 300,000 BP) and Middle Paleolithic (c. 300,000 - 45,000 BP) are generally less complete and thus subject to interpretation, while those dating to the Upper Paleolithic (c. 45,000- 10,000 BP) are both more numerous and better preserved. Paleolithic structures generally have no remaining superstructure, and must be inferred from a footprint of artifacts.\n\nBy contrast, some Neolithic structures retain above ground elements. The Neolithic saw the rise of agriculture and the establishment of settlements, which produced a surplus of foodstuffs and an increase in population density. A large, coordinated labor force enabled the process of hauling enormous stones to build large, permanent structures. By about 5000 BP, many groups of people over a widespread area were erecting large timbers and stones, or megaliths, to enclose communal spaces. Into historical times, the development of writing offered another layer of information, with descriptions of the physical appearance, materials, design, use, and events related to structures. This combination of remnants and records enhances the accuracy of archaeo-optical analysis.\n\nThere is some evidence that prehistorical structures oriented upon the sun's position on the horizon also created camera obscura situations. Examples in Western Europe include midwinter sunrise at Newgrange, midwinter sunset at Maeshowe, and midsummer sunrise at Bryn Celli Ddu.\n\nWhile archaeoastronomical studies have traditionally discussed these kinds of monument as observatories, fieldwork conducted in the 1990s at Balnuaran of Clava by Ronnie Scott and Tim Phillips suggests the midwinter sunset would have cast images inside two passage tombs. By temporarily reconstructing the collapsed roofs of these monuments, they noted that the act of viewing the sun along their passageways was not only potentially blinding but could only be clearly viewed by one person at a time. In contrast, an audience of over twenty people could stand with their backs to the opening to observe the effects of sunlight falling upon deliberately patterned stonework built into walls of both chambers. These observations inspired Scott to speculate that these structures were camera obscuras, and that an optical projection of the sun’s disc would reproduce the movements of the sun through the sky for many people to see at once.\n\nArchaeological optics contributes to a wider discipline, the archaeology of the senses. Rather than just recording the remains of the past such as standing stones or built walls, this wider discipline emphasizes how the spaces in-between these features could have been arenas for sensory experiences, even if parts of the original structures have disappeared. Among the senses, vision has been a major consideration, including studies of visibility between sites, interactions with geology and topography, archaeoastronomical alignment, or color symbolism. At the same time, anthropology has revealed societies that emphasize the other senses including qualities such as scent and smell. The social significance of the sensory of food and drink, and touch and texture can also be considered.\n\nOther studies have examined archaeomusicology and archaeoacoustics. Palaeolithic bone artifacts have been interpreted as musical instruments, or ‘sound producing devices’, while some natural features within caves have been found to emit unusual sounds. There have also been suggestions that Paleolithic cave art clusters in locations where caverns have especially resonant properties. In the 1990s the sonic properties of built architecture came under increasing scrutiny with investigations into vocally induced resonances inside chambered Neolithic sites, as well as the wider acoustic phenomenon within a variety of megalithic structures.\n\nAn archaeology of the senses, including archaeological optics, emphasizes that the past was inhabited by living people whose experiences were inherently partial and subjective. Indeed, this subjectivity might have lent both meaning and mystery to events occurring within ancient structures. This acknowledges that the senses were likely to have been used and understood in very different ways by people through time.\n\nThe study of ancient perceptions of light developed from many disparate sources — archaeologists, artists, antiquarians, and astronomers — with precursors reaching back at least a millennium. In 1998, archaeologist Ronnie Scott speculated that Neolithic passage tombs in Scotland might have been used as camera obscuras. In 2000, Robert Temple published an investigation into crystal lenses that date to antiquity.\n\nArchaeo-optics, as yet unnamed, arose as a formal line of inquiry beginning in 2005, with a presentation by Matt Gatton and his colleagues of “The Camera Obscura and the Origin of Art” at the University of Louisville, Kentucky. They made subsequent presentations at the University of Lisbon in 2006, and Archaeology Institute at Oxford University in 2007. A small number of researchers independently began to undertake archaeological optics fieldwork at Neolithic passage tombs. In 2011, Morgan Saletta published a paper noting camera obscura projections at two sites in the south of France. In 2011, Gatton began documenting optical projections at sites in Denmark. Aaron Watson, in collaboration with Ronnie Scott, began to record the archaeo-optic properties of monuments in Scotland in 2012, and Wales in 2014.\n\nSince 2011, the concept of archaeological optics as a broader academic field has coalesced with Constantinos Papadopoulos and Holley Moyes’s planning of the Oxford Handbook of Light in Archaeology, which brought researchers working along similar lines into contact.\n\nThe Lower Paleolithic was a time of early humans such as Homo habilis and Homo erectus. Possible indications of the early development of shelter construction during the Lower Paleolithic come from excavations at Olduvai Gorge, Melka Kunturé, Pont-de-Lavaud, Isernia La Pineta, Maozhushan, Bilzingsleben, and Terra Amata.\n\nThe Middle Paleolithic saw Homo erectus decline as Homo neanderthalensis developed in Eurasia, and Homo sapiens developed in Africa. Possible evidence of shelter construction in the Middle Paleolithic can be found at sites such as Port-Pignot, Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue, Le Lazaret, La Baume des Peyrards, Combe Grenal, La Butte d’Arvigny, La Folie, La Ferrassie, Biśnek, Vilas Ruivas, Ripiceni-Izvor, and Molodava I.\n\nThe Upper Paleolithic saw the expansion of Homo sapiens and the dwindling and ultimate extinction of Homo neanderthalensis. The best examples of Upper Paleolithic shelter practices come from excavations at such places as Kostienki, Cueva Morín, Grotte du Renne, Vigne-Brune, Dolní Věstonice, Les Peyrugues, Mezin, Ohalo II, Mal'ta, Le Cerisier, Plateau Perrain, Gontsy, Mezhirich, Gönnersdorf, Pincevent, and Borneck.\n\nThe actual physical evidence of Paleolithic shelters is limited to permanent materials like stone and bone. No wooden post or animal hide has been found, because these materials disintegrate over the course of time. But the existence of the perishable elements can be established. Postholes prove the existence of the wooden supports. The alignment of the holes or a circle of support stones describes a footprint of a framework. The area covered by flint scattered from blade work, and other household activities, further demarcates the interior shape of the structure.\n\nThe types of stones, bones, and minerals found at the campsites further describe the use of animal hides as tent covering. Butchered and burned animal bones found around the fire pit show which types of animals were hunted and eaten. Stone tools such as hide scrapers and deposits of minerals employed in preparing skins show the routine use of animal hides. In addition, there are a host of ethnographic parallels, as indigenous cultures throughout the world relied on animal hides as a shelter covering material until the onset of the modern era.\n\nThe people of the Paleolithic existed prior to agriculture and the domestication of animals, and they would have lived as small bands of hunter-gatherers, moving from place to place, exploiting plant, animal, and mineral resources. Two of the factors that influenced choice of location were proximity to fresh water and animal migration routes. Paleolithic foragers would also set up camp overlooking fields inhabited by herds of hoofed herbivores.\n\nPaleolithic campsites were characterized by repeated, seasonal, short-term occupation. While the inhabitants were quite mobile, without beasts of burden, shelters were not transported. A tent might stand at its location for a few years before it deteriorated and had to be rebuilt. The archaeological record describes shelters rebuilt over-and-over on roughly the same spot. Bands of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers followed an annual circuit with shelters built at strategic points along the way.\n\nPaleolithic campsites were dotted with external fire pits and internal hearths. The internal hearths were not open-burning fires, but were hollow areas that held heated stones and charcoal. The hearths acted as heat sinks, or heat traps, where thermal energy was stored and released slowly over time, to keep the dwelling warm. Hot stones and charcoals would be rolled, with sticks or bones, onto a thick animal hide and conveyed a couple of meters from the fire pit to the hearth. The next day the task would be repeated: hearths were taken apart and reassembled routinely. Frequent heating caused the rocks to discolor and crumble. Once a rock was no longer effective at holding heat, it was thrown in a nearby refuse pit along with animal bones and other household waste. An internal stone hearth is an effective strategy for staying warm, but it did not provide any light. The interiors of the tents were then dim places, where ancient people would have witnessed the camera obscura effect.\n\nPaleolithic archaeological optics involves investigations into the image projection capacities of Paleolithic tent reconstructions.\n\nThe suitability of Paleolithic tents/shelters for coincidental camera obscura formation was explored during a set of experiments under the direction of Matt Gatton in 2005 and 2006. The first set of experiments took place on a bison ranch in Oldham County, Kentucky, where a small, rudimentary bison hide teepee was erected next to a pasture, and images of the bison were cast through a hole in the hides and projected into the tent. The second set of experiments occurred at a rock shelter outside of Irvine, Estill County, Kentucky, where the investigators leaned a framework of tree branches against a rock wall and covered it with bison hides. The image of a horse outside was projected through a rough hole in the hides and into the interior space. The third set of experiments took place at the Musée du Malgré-Tout in Belgium, where archaeologists Pierre Cattelain and Claire Bellier reconstructed a variety of Paleolithic structures in several places in France, Germany and Ukraine. A smattering of holes was present in the hide coverings of each tent. At the German site, images were projected inside the reconstruction onto a rabbit hide.\n\nThe tent reconstructions established some plausibility of accidental camera obscura formation during the Paleolithic, but plausibility is not probability, so the question of the probable frequency of projected images was explored by Bayesian statistical modeling.\n\nTo evaluate the probability of an unknown event a series of conditional probabilities were used to create a chance tree using TreeAge Pro 2011 (Williamstown, MA). The conditions affecting the appearance of projected images are the general context of the shelter, aperture existence, aperture size, sunlight exposure, weather, occupancy, and the specific context of the dwelling. Given the different situations regarding variables; the probability of a person observing a projected image inside a Palaeolithic dwelling ranged from 1% to 8% per day, or 4 to 29 times per year. Multiplying the yearly occurrences by the range of years and the estimated human population; camera obscura images could have been observed anywhere from 54.8 billion to 4.38 trillion times (5.48x10 to 4.38x10) over the course of prehistory.\n\nThe likely prevalence of prehistoric camera obscuras throughout the human experience suggests several important implications for the development of art, religious beliefs, philosophy and existing cave art.\n\nThe origins of art have been a significant mystery, because art, as a form of communication, is largely a social construct. The core issue is that there can be no intention to represent an object or scene without first knowing that such a depiction is possible. Researchers have encountered great difficulty coming up with explanations of how prehistoric people first stumbled upon the idea of the possibility of representation. The archaeo-optical explanation is that images projected inside a dwelling space provided, according to Cambridge professor Nigel Spivey, “… a prototypical visual experience that triggers the concept of representation…” In addition, the images would be shared experiences, visible by everyone in the tent or structure at the same time. The group could thus collectively experience, discuss, verify, confirm, investigate, and interpret the images projected on the surfaces before them. It is the communal aspect of the images that makes the development of visual art socially feasible.\n\n“A randomly projected image stands for a real object; it says bison without being a flesh and blood bison, planting the idea of a referent, the conceptual beginning of art.” -Matt Gatton\n\nIt is also possible that camera obscura images could have fostered religious belief. A broad definition of religion is a belief in an alternative realm that influences physical reality. Theologian Rudolf Otto held that the origins of religion are to be found in the concept of the sacred, the divine presenting itself as something “wholly other” (ganz andere). The images projected in Paleolithic tents would have offered an early gateway to the concept of an alternative realm, a glimpse of an \"other\", that initiated a belief in something that was not seen moment to moment. The images, once seen, lingered in the mind, and took root in the culture.\n\n“The camera’s image instantly splits a quasi-reality away from reality, peeling off an ‘other’ from the ‘is’; instilling the very idea that animals, plants, and humans have existences in other forms, spirits, on other planes.” - Matt Gatton\n\nOnce the concept of an alternative realm had taken root, it would have provided a domain for agents of an \"other\" world to intervene in human affairs. The notion of spirit forms is the very root of animism, the oldest known, and perhaps first, form of religion. The incidental image is possibly the first glimpse of the \"divine\".\n\nThe core issue of metaphysics is the investigation of the nature of reality. The images in a Paleolithic tent would trigger a cascade of thoughts about the essence of reality: What is \"that\" plane of existence? And reflexively, what is \"this\" plane? Only by glimpsing an alternative reality does this reality become open to question — the very start of abstract examination.\n\nThe projections by camera obscura can also explain some common features among cave paintings of animals and people. Paleolithic cave art is well known for iconic, schematicized figures, usually with extremely small heads and enormous, often bowed, bodies. Examples of the core elements of some Paleolithic cultures’ visual lexicon — repetition, disconnection, movement, superimposition, and distortion — are expressed in engravings on flat stones and bones within the habitation sites and also on the walls of deep caves.\n\nIn May 2005, Matt Gatton, Walter Brock, and Dylan Brock set up a room-sized camera obscura on a farm in Harrodsburg, Kentucky. The image of a horse was projected on to a small flat stone. It was natural for the artist to catch the image with his torso, the engraving stone secured against the body, and the eyes looking down on the inverted image. In this scenario it was advantageous to tilt the stone slightly. The more the stone was tilted the more the image of the animal distorted, the animal’s head reducing in size and the stomach bowing downward, quite like the distortions seen in some deep cave art. This distortion is known as the keystone effect. Gatton proposed that the deep cave distortions may have resulted from the camera obscura effects within the tents.\n\nThe hypothesis that paleolithic people would have seen camera obscura effects within their shelters—Gatton’s Paleolithic Camera Obscura Theory—has gained wider exposure in the last several years, including specific references in the following venues.\n\n\n\nThe Neolithic period offers the possibility to explore optical image projections within built architecture. Neolithic structures range from modest houses to enormous enclosures and mounds, and were constructed using combinations of earth, timber and stone. Archaeo-optic fieldwork has focused upon megalithic monuments.\n\nMegaliths, or large stones, come in two main types of architectural presentations: freestanding and earth-covered. Individual and groupings of standing stones — in formations of circles, lines, ovals, ‘U’-shapes, or rectangles — were not employed to support the weight of soil above them, but served as markers. Megalithic chambers designed to bear the weight of a mound of earth, turf, rubble or stone have been classified into groups, including dolmens, portal dolmens, gallery graves, wedge tombs, passage tombs, and court tombs. The term \"dolmen\" describes groupings of erected stones supporting one large, flat roof stone, like an oversized rudimentary table. \"Portal dolmens\" have an angled stone slab supported by uprights that define a chamber, often with an entrance. \"Gallery\" graves are elongated dolmens consisting of two rows of upright stones (orthostats) supporting a series of flat roof stones (lintels). \"Wedge\" tombs are wider at the mouth, and narrower as they recede inward. \"Passage tombs\" have a long boulder-built passage that leads to a buried chamber. \"Court\" tombs are so-named because they have what appears to be a courtyard encircled by standing stones in front of the tomb chamber. Although many of these structures now appear as freestanding monuments, their stones were often the skeletal substructures of mounds removed by erosion or human action.\n\nA major focus for megalithic chambers is in western Europe: Scandinavia, the British Isles, France, and Iberia. Their origin, chronology and purpose is a subject of ongoing research and debate. In fact, they are not limited to Europe, and are found across Eurasia and the entire globe. Their significance in past cultures is suggested by the labor and resources required to create them. The painstakingly and intricately constructed mounds were significant feats, requiring tens of thousands of hours to construct. For example, it has been speculated that a workforce of 400 working continuously for two months every year would have taken around 16 years to construct the 200,000 tonne cairn at Newgrange.\n\nIn the British Isles and Ireland it is possible that many different kinds of chambered monument, including those constructed from timber, may have been suited to the creation of optical phenomenon. Recent studies have focused upon one format in particular: the megalithic passage tomb.\n\nPassage tombs comprise a single stone-built passageway that gives access to a central chamber, and there may be adjoining chambers or cells. This structure is entirely covered by a mound that might consist of earth, rubble, turf or clay. Their distribution extends across the west of Europe. Determining the exact numbers of these sites is problematic due to the poor preservation of many. There are over one hundred and fifty proven passage tombs in Ireland, with an overall estimate of over three hundred in total, roughly five hundred in Denmark, and over 250 in Scotland. Their classification has been further divided into groups such as the Orkney-Cromarty, Maeshowe and Clava traditions, but all retain the same fundamental format. Their construction likely began in the earlier Neolithic soon after 5600 BP and extends to around 4000 BP at excavated examples of Clava Cairn passage tombs, but this need not imply that they were constructed or used throughout this time.\n\nThe survival of passage tombs is variable and dependent upon many factors. The excavation of two later Neolithic passage graves at Balnuaran of Clava demonstrated that their architecture was inherently unstable and would have likely collapsed within decades of their construction. Earlier examples, including the Orkney-Cromarty format, appear to generally have been more robust. Passage tombs could also be reused in later times, including the Iron Age and early Medieval, and their Neolithic content was sometimes removed. Some were destroyed when new structures were built upon them. Most have required consolidation, reconstruction or strengthening to allow public access. In the Boyne Valley, Newgrange and Knowth have undergone significant excavation and restoration. In Orkney, the roof of the chamber within Maeshowe has been restored following damage caused by Vikings in the twelfth century. In some cases, recent building work has significantly altered their appearance, a critical factor that has to be taken into account when observing and interpreting optical phenomena within their passages and chambers.\n\nPassage tombs across Europe have long been a focus for myths and legends. Medieval lore has it that wizards, giants, witches, or demons erected the great stones, and that the mounds were the homes of gnomes, elves, faeries, and goblins. In Denmark, passage graves are still referred to as jættestuer (troll houses). An analysis of Irish folk tales revealed that megalithic mounds both served as the burial places of ancient heroes, and were the abodes of supernatural beings.\n\nMany passage tombs do indeed contain the remains of the dead—sometimes in significant quantities. For example, excavations at Quanterness revealed the bones of 157 individuals of various ages, but the total number held within the tomb may have been nearer to 400. Animal remains and artifacts are also found at some sites, including beads, stone balls and pottery.\n\nIt appears that burial was not the sole function of passage \"tombs\". Some sites contain little evidence of human remains, although this could reflect their subsequent histories, while others have evidence for activities by the living. Fires were burnt within sites in Orkney and at Knowth, Dowth and Newgrange in Ireland there are examples where images were carved in situ upon stones within their interiors. The passages at a number of sites align with sunrise or sunset at pivotal times of the year causing their otherwise darkened chambers to be illuminated. Many demonstrate extraordinary acoustic properties. Together, these factors suggest that passage tombs might be interpreted as venues for diverse activities that involved both the living and the dead.\n\nThe principal fieldwork exploring the optical properties of passage tombs has been conducted by Matt Gatton in Denmark, Morgan Saletta in France, Aaron Watson in Wales, Aaron Watson and Ronnie Scott in Scotland, and Eva Bosch in Spain.\n\nThe format of passage tombs is uniquely suited to the creation and control of optical projections. These structures reproduce the fundamental format of a camera obscura and fieldwork has demonstrated that they can indeed have remarkable projection capabilities. The chamber offers a dark space while the single passageway enables the movement of light to be closely controlled. In some cases their basic configuration alone is sufficient to cast a projection, and a small number offer mechanisms through which light can be closely controlled. For example, the roof-box at Newgrange has evidence for the repeated relocation of quartz blocks that could have been used to manipulate optical projections. In the majority of cases, however, additional apertures were required.\n\nThe entrances at many passage tombs appear to have been temporarily sealed in a variety of ways: boulders, slabs, blocks, planks or wooden frameworks, as evidenced by postholes by the entrance. Maeshowe has a recess near to the passage entrance that holds a carefully balanced portal stone that can be pivoted into place. This leaves a narrow gap between the top of this block and the passage lintels, thereby allowing light to enter even when the passageway is impassable to people. In contrast, the roof box at Newgrange is situated above the passageway, as is a comparable feature within Cairn G at Carrowkeel. These apertures could be operated independently to the passages. Even in the absence of such devices only minor additions - stone blocks, a hole in a wooden plank, or an animal hide hung between posts at the entrance - are required to convert the monument into an operational camera obscura. The passage serves as a conduit for light and the rear of the chamber acts as a projection surface.\n\nThe character of optical projections within passage tombs is determined by a number of interconnected factors. Lighting inside the monument needs to be low but total darkness is not always required, depending on the relative brightness outside. Observations at the Grey Cairns of Camster by Aaron Watson and Ronnie Scott showed that it was possible to cast projections in fog, rain and under heavy cloud, but that such conditions significantly impaired their clarity. The size and brightness of projections can be adjusted both by modifying the size of the aperture and moving the aperture plane itself in relation to the focal plane, which is frequently the wall of the chamber aligned with the passageway. Increasing the focal distance by moving the aperture along the passage increases the size of the projection but also reduces its brightness. Reducing the aperture diameter results in a more focused, but increasingly dark, image. A further contributing factor is the texture of the surface upon which the image is projected. For example, observations by Aaron Watson have revealed that the slab that constitutes the back wall of the chamber at Bryn Celli Ddu is smooth enough to carry a detailed image. In contrast, projections inside Cuween Hill fall upon rough stone walling, requiring the distance between the aperture and focal plane to be increased, thereby enlarging the image in order to render it visible.\n\nWhen aligned upon the sun, a properly configured passage tomb is capable of casting an enlarged image of the solar disc. As long as the aperture remains static this projected solar disc will move along the wall as the sun moves across the sky. During sunrise, for example, the sun’s image will appear to travel across the chamber and then out along the walls of the passageway. Gatton has suggested that images carved upon the chamber walls of Cairn T at Loughcrew may reproduce these movements of the sun’s disc.\n\nIn 2011, archaeologist Morgan Saletta reported solar projections within the sites of Grotte de Bounias and Grotte de la Source during equinoctial sunsets. These were a result of the architectural format of these monuments creating sufficiently restricted apertures to cast a distinct, though unfocused, projection.\n\nDuring the time of midsummer sunrise in 2014 and 2015, Aaron Watson documented solar projections within Bryn Celli Ddu. By locating the aperture close to the chamber it was possible to cast a distinct image of nearby trees and the rising sun, together framed by the outline of the passage. In contrast, relocating the aperture to the passage entrance significantly enlarged the sun’s disc to a diameter of 10 cm.\n\nIf a passage tomb is aligned upon another monument, the camera obscura method can be used to project recognisable images of that monument into the chamber. For example, while the setting sun shines directly into Maeshowe’s chamber when the sun is at its southwestern extreme (winter solstice sunset), there is also a reverse alignment (summer solstice sunrise) when the sun is at its northeastern extreme. This will illuminate the distant Barnhouse Stone such that its image could be projected inside Maeshowe’s chamber.\n\nAt Balnuaran of Clava, two neighbouring passage tombs share a south-westerly axis in order that their passageways open towards the midwinter sunset. Not only does the cairn to the south-west appear centrally framed when looking down the passage from that to the north-east, but fieldwork by Ronnie Scott and Tim Phillips has documented how the midwinter setting sun appears to descend directly into the apex of its roof.\n\nMany passage tombs are set in elevated situations with extensive views, or even focused upon distinctive topographic features. These would therefore appear within optical projections inside their chambers. Aaron Watson has documented optical projections inside Cuween Hill, Orkney, that feature expansive views across the Bay of Firth. Inside the Dwarfie Stane, also in Orkney, it is possible to cast a panoramic image of the uplands of Hoy.\n\nWhile the majority of passage tombs may have lost their lintels and roofs it is possible to consider the views that may originally have been projected into their chambers. For example, the ruinous site of Badnabay, north-west Scotland, appears to be aligned upon a mountain with a distinctive profile.\n\nReflected sunlight can illuminate people located within passage tomb forecourts, creating what Gatton has described as \"spirit\" projections due to their ephemeral, spectral qualities. When backlit these figures appear as dark silhouettes, but at those times when the sun is behind the monument, and the forecourt area brightly lit, they are enhanced in color and detail. Aaron Watson has photographed optical projections of people inside Cuween Hill, Wideford Hill, Vinquoy Hill, the Dwarfie Stane and the Grey Cairns of Camster.\n\nCamera obscura projections are animated in a manner akin to cinematography and, while projected human figures appear upside down and back to front, they move in real time. This creates distinctive illusions where individuals, or even groups of people, can appear to emerge from the chamber wall. As the angles between the external subject and the aperture become increasingly oblique, projections can also be cast upon the floor, walls and ceiling of a monument. This can create the illusion of a human shadow moving through the passage tomb.\n\nPassage tomb architecture spatially constrains the number of people who can simultaneously occupy their chambers, effectively restricting access to specialist kinds of knowledge and unusual combinations of sensory experience. Whether these sites embody astronomical orientations, occupy special places in the landscape, or acted as the receptacles for ancestral remains, the camera obscura theory expands the significance and meaning of light entering these monuments.\n\nInverted images of the outside world, viewed by people located in the depths of a megalithic cairn, would very effectively generate a sense of \"otherness\". Furthermore, people in the Neolithic did not share present-day knowledge of optical physics, and would have had their own understandings. Even from a scientific perspective, however, the act of witnessing the projection of the sun’s disc, or human figures emerging from a stone wall, is rather suggestive of an encounter with the supernatural. It has been suggested that projections of the sun may have been interpreted as the manifestation of a Neolithic solar deity.\n\nFinally, optical projections converge with other sensory qualities of these places, potentially including the presence of the remains of the dead, rock art, and dynamic archaeo-acoustic sound effects. There is also a possibility that these kinds of experiences were combined and choreographed in order to maximize their theatrical impact upon an audience. Rather than silent places of the death, passage tombs may have acted as places where people could engage with powerful multi-sensory experiences that transported their occupants to other dimensions, or brought them into the presence of forces that are difficult to imagine in the present day.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians may have also witnessed—and recorded—camera obscura effects. Ancient Egyptian texts, known collectively as the Books of the Netherworld, describe pharaonic funerary complexes as sun-powered resurrection machines that somehow affected a merger of the pharaoh's soul with the sun god. The continuation of the entire cosmos was dependent upon the sun god who was regenerated in darkness.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian concept of the pharaonic soul was complicated and divided into several aspects. The \"ka\" aspect was a spirit double, created at birth, with the physical appearance of the person. After death, the \"ka\" would leave the body and travel through the underworld at night and return to its physical representation (the mummy, statue, or artworks) each morning. Pharaonic mortuary temples, which faced east toward the dawn sun and were affixed to the side of pyramids during the pyramid building era, featured a darkened inner sanctuary with a \"ka\" statue of the pharaoh. When the sun rose on the horizon, its rays would travel down the central passageway of the temple, and project the image of the sun onto the \"ka\" and, conversely, reflect the \"ka\" back to the sun, uniting the two. This is the conceptual leap that underpins Ancient Egyptian culture — the pharaoh’s soul road on a beam of light.\n\nMystery religions dominated the Mediterranean sphere during classical antiquity. The foremost Mystery sect was the hallowed rite of the Goddess Persephone at Eleusis, Greece, which held sway for nearly two thousand years (from at least 1500 BCE until the end of fourth century CE). The Eleusinian Mysteries started out as a small localized religion, grew steadily, and were adopted as part of the state religion of nearby Athens around 600 BCE.\n\nInside the dark cavernous temple was a sacred smaller building that held cult objects, normally sculptural idols, and a very bright fire. In the temple, the initiates had a direct face-to-face experience with the gods, who appeared as phantoms of light. Plato describes initiates experiencing “perfect, simple, calm, and blissful apparitions [eudaímona phásmata] in a pure light …” (Phaedrus 250c).\n\nThe optical principle of the camera obscura — an image cast into a dark area from an adjacent bright area via a small aperture — works irrespective of the scale of the dark and light areas. If the inside of a room is made very bright and the outside is very dark then a hole will cast the image from the smaller space to the larger, rather like a movie projector in a theater. Matt Gatton has proposed the priests (or priestesses) at Eleusis had operated a rudimentary projection booth, an \"Eleusinian Projector\", where the priest’s holy fire-room acted as the box of light and the dark cavernous space crowded with initiates was the theater.\n\n“The initiates were not directing their attention toward the priest or the sacred house, but looking the other direction at spectral images that they believed were gods, shining and moving about…” -Matt Gatton\n\nPapadopoulos C. and Moyes, H., eds. (2016). The Oxford Handbook of Light in Archaeology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "34599106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34599106", "title": "Ascot Chang", "text": "Ascot Chang\n\nAscot Chang is a brand of bespoke shirts and suits. Ascot Chang opened his first store on Kimberly Road in Hong Kong in 1953. It now has 15 locations across China, Hong Kong, the United States, and the Philippines. High-profile customers include former president George W. Bush, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Andy Warhol.\n\nAscot Chang left his hometown, Fenghua, at age fourteen to apprentice under a master shirtmaker in Shanghai. In 1949, he leaves for Hong Kong where he starts taking orders for custom made shirts. Knocking on door after door, he visits the offices of Shanghainese businessmen who are not able to find high quality shirts in Hong Kong. \n\nBy 1953, Ascot Chang opens his first 600 sq. ft store at 34 Kimberley Road. He opens his first branch at the Peninsula Hotel in 1963, which is still open to this day. \n\nIn 1967, with sales negatively impacted by the Hong Kong 1967 leftist riots, Ascot Chang goes on his first trunk show. Over three months, he visited twenty cities in the United States, including San Francisco, Boston, and New York City. \n\nWhen Ascot Chang suffered a heart attack in the 1970s, his son, Tony Chang, and his brother, Johnny Chang, started leading the company. Under the second generation of Changs, Ascot Chang spread worldwide, with their first international store opening in New York in 1986.\n\nCurrently, Ascot Chang has 15 locations across China, Hong Kong, the United States, and the Philippines.\n\nThe Ascot Chang house cut is a continental style that is characterized by medium shoulder padding, strong yet lightweight canvas structure, and a very slight roped shoulder. The styling leans towards a slim fit that balances aesthetics and comfort for a professional silhouette.\n"}
{"id": "4232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4232", "title": "Barter", "text": "Barter\n\nIn trade, barter (derived from \"baretor\") is a system of exchange where participants in a transaction directly exchange goods or services for other goods or services without using a medium of exchange, such as money. Economists distinguish barter from gift economies in many ways; barter, for example, features immediate reciprocal exchange, not delayed in time. Barter usually takes place on a bilateral basis, but may be multilateral (i.e., mediated through a trade exchange). In most developed countries, barter usually only exists parallel to monetary systems to a very limited extent. Market actors use barter as a replacement for money as the method of exchange in times of monetary crisis, such as when currency becomes unstable (e.g., hyperinflation or a deflationary spiral) or simply unavailable for conducting commerce.\n\nEconomists since the times of Adam Smith (1723-1790), looking at non-specific pre-modern societies as examples, have used the inefficiency of barter to explain the emergence of money, of \"the\" economy, and hence of the discipline of economics itself. However, ethnographic studies have shown that no present or past society has used barter without any other medium of exchange or measurement, nor have anthropologists found evidence that money emerged from barter, instead finding that gift-giving (credit extended on a personal basis with an inter-personal balance maintained over the long term) was the most usual means of exchange of goods and services.\n\nAdam Smith, the father of modern economics, sought to demonstrate that markets (and economies) pre-existed the state, and hence should be free of government regulation. He argued (against conventional wisdom) that money was not the creation of governments. Markets emerged, in his view, out of the division of labour, by which individuals began to specialize in specific crafts and hence had to depend on others for subsistence goods. These goods were first exchanged by barter. Specialization depended on trade, but was hindered by the \"double coincidence of wants\" which barter requires, i.e., for the exchange to occur, each participant must want what the other has. To complete this hypothetical history, craftsmen would stockpile one particular good, be it salt or metal, that they thought no one would refuse. This is the origin of money according to Smith. Money, as a universally desired medium of exchange, allows each half of the transaction to be separated.\n\nBarter is characterized in Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" by a disparaging vocabulary: \"higgling, haggling, swapping, dickering.\" It has also been characterized as negative reciprocity, or \"selfish profiteering.\"\n\nAnthropologists have argued, in contrast, \"that when something resembling barter \"does\" occur in stateless societies it is almost always between strangers.\" Barter occurred between strangers, not fellow villagers, and hence cannot be used to naturalistically explain the origin of money without the state. Since most people engaged in trade knew each other, exchange was fostered through the extension of credit. Marcel Mauss, author of 'The Gift', argued that the first economic contracts were to \"not\" act in one's economic self-interest, and that before money, exchange was fostered through the processes of reciprocity and redistribution, not barter. Everyday exchange relations in such societies are characterized by generalized reciprocity, or a non-calculative familial \"communism\" where each takes according to their needs, and gives as they have.\n\nSince direct barter does not require payment in money, it can be utilized when money is in short supply, when there is little information about the credit worthiness of trade partners, or when there is a lack of trust between those trading.\n\nBarter is an option to those who cannot afford to store their small supply of wealth in money, especially in hyperinflation situations where money devalues quickly.\n\nThe limitations of barter are often explained in terms of its inefficiencies in facilitating exchange in comparison to money.\n\nIt is said that barter is 'inefficient' because:\n\n\nOther anthropologists have questioned whether barter is typically between \"total\" strangers, a form of barter known as \"silent trade\". Silent trade, also called silent barter, dumb barter (\"dumb\" here used in its old meaning of \"mute\"), or depot trade, is a method by which traders who cannot speak each other's language can trade without talking. However, Benjamin Orlove has shown that while barter occurs through \"silent trade\" (between strangers), it also occurs in commercial markets as well. \"Because barter is a difficult way of conducting trade, it will occur only where there are strong institutional constraints on the use of money or where the barter symbolically denotes a special social relationship and is used in well-defined conditions. To sum up, multipurpose money in markets is like lubrication for machines - necessary for the most efficient function, but not necessary for the existence of the market itself.\"\n\nIn his analysis of barter between coastal and inland villages in the Trobriand Islands, Keith Hart highlighted the difference between highly ceremonial gift exchange between community leaders, and the barter that occurs between individual households. The haggling that takes place between strangers is possible because of the larger temporary political order established by the gift exchanges of leaders. From this he concludes that barter is \"an atomized interaction predicated upon the presence of society\" (i.e. that social order established by gift exchange), and not typical between complete strangers.\n\nAs Orlove noted, barter may occur in commercial economies, usually during periods of monetary crisis. During such a crisis, currency may be in short supply, or highly devalued through hyperinflation. In such cases, money ceases to be the universal medium of exchange or standard of value. Money may be in such short supply that it becomes an item of barter itself rather than the means of exchange. Barter may also occur when people cannot afford to keep money (as when hyperinflation quickly devalues it).\n\nAn example of this would be during the Crisis in Bolivarian Venezuela, when Venezuelans resorted to bartering as a result of hyperinflation.\n\nEconomic historian Karl Polanyi has argued that where barter is widespread, and cash supplies limited, barter is aided by the use of credit, brokerage, and money as a unit of account (i.e. used to price items). All of these strategies are found in ancient economies including Ptolemaic Egypt. They are also the basis for more recent barter exchange systems.\n\nWhile one-to-one bartering is practiced between individuals and businesses on an informal basis, organized barter exchanges have developed to conduct third party bartering which helps overcome some of the limitations of barter. A barter exchange operates as a broker and bank in which each participating member has an account that is debited when purchases are made, and credited when sales are made.\n\nModern barter and trade has evolved considerably to become an effective method of increasing sales, conserving cash, moving inventory, and making use of excess production capacity for businesses around the world. Businesses in a barter earn trade credits (instead of cash) that are deposited into their account. They then have the ability to purchase goods and services from other members utilizing their trade credits – they are not obligated to purchase from those whom they sold to, and vice versa. The exchange plays an important role because they provide the record-keeping, brokering expertise and monthly statements to each member. Commercial exchanges make money by charging a commission on each transaction either all on the buy side, all on the sell side, or a combination of both. Transaction fees typically run between 8 and 15%.\n\nThroughout the 18th century, retailers began to abandon the prevailing system of bartering. Retailers operating out of the Palais complex in Paris, France were among the first in Europe to abandon the bartering, and adopt fixed-prices thereby sparing their clientele the hassle of bartering. The Palais retailers stocked luxury goods that appealed to the wealthy elite and upper middle classes. Stores were fitted with long glass exterior windows which allowed the emerging middle-classes to window shop and indulge in fantasies, even when they may not have been able to afford the high retail prices. Thus, the Palais-Royal became one of the first examples of a new style of shopping arcade, which adopted the trappings of a sophisticated, modern shopping complex and also changed pricing structures, for both the aristocracy and the middle classes.\n\nThe Owenite socialists in Britain and the United States in the 1830s were the first to attempt to organize barter exchanges. Owenism developed a \"theory of equitable exchange\" as a critique of the exploitative wage relationship between capitalist and labourer, by which all profit accrued to the capitalist. To counteract the uneven playing field between employers and employed, they proposed \"schemes of labour notes based on labour time, thus institutionalizing Owen's demand that human labour, not money, be made the standard of value.\" This alternate currency eliminated price variability between markets, as well as the role of merchants who bought low and sold high. The system arose in a period where paper currency was an innovation. Paper currency was an IOU circulated by a bank (a promise to pay, not a payment in itself). Both merchants and an unstable paper currency created difficulties for direct producers.\n\nAn alternate currency, denominated in labour time, would prevent profit taking by middlemen; all goods exchanged would be priced only in terms of the amount of labour that went into them as expressed in the maxim 'Cost the limit of price'. It became the basis of exchanges in London, and in America, where the idea was implemented at the New Harmony communal settlement by Josiah Warren in 1826, and in his Cincinnati 'Time store' in 1827. Warren ideas were adopted by other Owenites and currency reformers, even though the labour exchanges were relatively short lived.\n\nIn England, about 30 to 40 cooperative societies sent their surplus goods to an \"exchange bazaar\" for direct barter in London, which later adopted a similar labour note. The British Association for Promoting Cooperative Knowledge established an \"equitable labour exchange\" in 1830. This was expanded as the National Equitable Labour Exchange in 1832 on Grays Inn Road in London. These efforts became the basis of the British cooperative movement of the 1840s. In 1848, the socialist and first self-designated anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon postulated a system of \"time chits\". In 1875, Karl Marx wrote of \"Labor Certificates\" (\"Arbeitszertifikaten\") in his Critique of the Gotha Program of a \"certificate from society that [the labourer] has furnished such and such an amount of labour\", which can be used to draw \"from the social stock of means of consumption as much as costs the same amount of labour.\"\n\nThe first exchange system was the Swiss WIR Bank. It was founded in 1934 as a result of currency shortages after the stock market crash of 1929. \"WIR\" is both an abbreviation of Wirtschaftsring (economic circle) and the word for \"we\" in German, reminding participants that the economic circle is also a community.\n\nIn Spain (particularly the Catalonia region) there is a growing number of exchange markets. These barter markets or swap meets work without money. Participants bring things they do not need and exchange them for the unwanted goods of another participant. Swapping among three parties often helps satisfy tastes when trying to get around the rule that money is not allowed.\n\nMichael Linton originated the term \"local exchange trading system\" (LETS) in 1983 and for a time ran the Comox Valley LETSystems in Courtenay, British Columbia. LETS networks use interest-free local credit so direct swaps do not need to be made. For instance, a member may earn credit by doing childcare for one person and spend it later on carpentry with another person in the same network. In LETS, unlike other local currencies, no scrip is issued, but rather transactions are recorded in a central location open to all members. As credit is issued by the network members, for the benefit of the members themselves, LETS are considered mutual credit systems.\n\nAccording to the International Reciprocal Trade Association, the industry trade body, more than 450,000 businesses transacted $10 billion globally in 2008 – and officials expect trade volume to grow by 15% in 2009.\n\nIt is estimated that over 450,000 businesses in the United States were involved in barter exchange activities in 2010. There are approximately 400 commercial and corporate barter companies serving all parts of the world. There are many opportunities for entrepreneurs to start a barter exchange. Several major cities in the U.S. and Canada do not currently have a local barter exchange. There are two industry groups in the United States, the National Association of Trade Exchanges (NATE) and the International Reciprocal Trade Association (IRTA). Both offer training and promote high ethical standards among their members. Moreover, each has created its own currency through which its member barter companies can trade. NATE's currency is the known as the BANC and IRTA's currency is called Universal Currency (UC).\n\nIn Canada, barter continues to thrive. The largest b2b barter exchange is Tradebank, founded in 1987. P2P bartering has seen a renaissance in major Canadian cities through Bunz - built as a network of Facebook groups that went on to become a stand-alone bartering based app in January 2016. Within the first year, Bunz accumulated over 75,000 users in over 200 cities worldwide.\n\nIn the United States, the largest barter exchange and corporate trade group is International Monetary Systems, founded in 1985, now with representation in various countries.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand the largest barter exchange is Bartercard, founded in 1991, with offices in the United Kingdom, United States, Cyprus, UAE and Thailand.\n\nCorporate barter focuses on larger transactions, which is different from a traditional, retail oriented barter exchange. Corporate barter exchanges typically use media and advertising as leverage for their larger transactions. It entails the use of a currency unit called a \"trade-credit\". The trade-credit must not only be known and guaranteed, but also be valued in an amount the media and advertising could have been purchased for had the \"client\" bought it themselves (contract to eliminate ambiguity and risk).\n\nSoviet bilateral trade is occasionally called \"barter trade\", because although the purchases were denominated in U.S. dollars, the transactions were credited to an international clearing account, avoiding the use of hard cash.\n\nIn the United States, Karl Hess used bartering to make it harder for the IRS to seize his wages and as a form of tax resistance. Hess explained how he turned to barter in an op-ed for \"The New York Times\" in 1975. However the IRS now requires barter exchanges to be reported as per the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. Barter exchanges are considered taxable revenue by the IRS and must be reported on a 1099-B form. According to the IRS, \"The fair market value of goods and services exchanged must be included in the income of both parties.\"\n\nOther countries, though, do not have the reporting requirement that the U.S. does concerning proceeds from barter transactions, but taxation is handled the same way as a cash transaction. If one barters for a profit, one pays the appropriate tax; if one generates a loss in the transaction, they have a loss. Bartering for business is also taxed accordingly as business income or business expense. Many barter exchanges require that one register as a business.\n\nSince the 1830s, barter in some western market economies has been aided by exchanges which use alternative currencies based on the labour theory of value, and which are intended to prevent profit-taking by intermediaries. Examples include the Owenite socialists, the Cincinnati Time store, and more recently Ithaca HOURS (time banking) and the LETS system.\n\n"}
{"id": "21192951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21192951", "title": "Causerie", "text": "Causerie\n\nCauserie (from French, \"talk, chat\") is a literary style of short informal essays mostly unknown in the English-speaking world. A causerie is generally short, light and humorous and is often published as a newspaper column (although it is not defined by its format). Often the causerie is a current-opinion piece, but it contains more verbal acrobatics and humor than a regular opinion or column. In English, causerie is commonly known as \"personal story\", \"talk of the town\", \"funny story\" or \"column\" instead.\n\nThe causerie style is characterized by a personal approach to the reader; the writer \"babbles\" to the reader, from which the term derives. Language jokes, hyperbole, intentional disregard of linguistic and stylistic norms, and other absurd or humorous elements are permitted. For example, in a causerie about a politician, she or he may be placed in an imagined situation. Sentences are usually kept short, avoiding over-explaining, and room is left for the reader to read between the lines.\n\nThe content of causerie is not limited and it may be satire, parody, opinion, factual or straight fiction. Causerie is not defined by content or format, but style. Although usually published in a newspaper, many authors have published anthologies.\nThe causerie as a form became popular in the English-speaking world during the later nineteenth-century following the widely published and influential essays of Andrew Lang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29841185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29841185", "title": "Childhood in medieval England", "text": "Childhood in medieval England\n\nChildhood in medieval England was determined by both social and biological factors. According to common law, childhood ranged from the birth of a child until he or she reached the age of 12. At this point, the child was seen as capable and competent to understand his or her actions, thus rendering them responsible for them. According to canon law, girls could marry at the age of 12 and boys at the age of 14.\n\nFor most children growing up in Medieval England the first year of life was one of the most dangerous, with as many as 50 percent of children succumbing to fatal illness. During this year the child was cared for and nursed, either by parents (if the family belonged to the peasant class) or (perhaps) by a wet nurse if the child belonged to a noble class.\n\nAt age seven play was still an important part of the child's life; however, as the child's ability to learn and fulfil family duties grew, so did their responsibility to contribute. If circumstances allowed, seven was the age of entrance into formal education. Peasant and urban children took up responsibilities around the house.\n\nBy age 12, the child began to take on a more serious role in family duties. Although according to canon law at the age of twelve girls could marry, this was relatively uncommon unless the child was an heiress or belonged to a family of noble birth. Peasant children at this age stayed at home and continued to learn and develop domestic skills and husbandry. Urban children moved out of their homes and into the homes of their employer, or master (depending on their future roles as servants or apprentices). Noble boys learned skills in arms, and noble girls learned basic domestic skills.\nThe end of childhood and entrance into adolescence was marked by leaving home and moving to the house of the employer (or master), entering a university or into church service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1430828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430828", "title": "Chivalric romance", "text": "Chivalric romance\n\nAs a literary genre of high culture, romance or chivalric romance is a type of prose and verse narrative that was popular in the aristocratic circles of High Medieval and Early Modern Europe. They were fantastic stories about marvel-filled adventures, often of a chivalric knight-errant portrayed as having heroic qualities, who goes on a quest. It developed further from the epics as time went on; in particular, \"the emphasis on love and courtly manners distinguishes it from the \"chanson de geste\" and other kinds of epic, in which masculine military heroism predominates.\"\n\nPopular literature also drew on themes of romance, but with ironic, satiric, or burlesque intent. Romances reworked legends, fairy tales, and history to suit the readers' and hearers' tastes, but by c. 1600 they were out of fashion, and Miguel de Cervantes famously burlesqued them in his novel \"Don Quixote\". Still, the modern image of \"medieval\" is more influenced by the romance than by any other medieval genre, and the word \"medieval\" evokes knights, distressed damsels, dragons, and other romantic tropes.\n\nOriginally, romance literature was written in Old French, Anglo-Norman, Occitan, and Provençal, and later in Portuguese, Castilian, English, Italian (Sicilian poetry), and German. During the early 13th century, romances were increasingly written as prose. In later romances, particularly those of French origin, there is a marked tendency to emphasize themes of courtly love, such as faithfulness in adversity.\n\nUnlike the later form of the novel and like the chansons de geste, the genre of romance dealt with traditional themes. These were distinguished from earlier epics by heavy use of marvelous events, the elements of love, and the frequent use of a web of interwoven stories, rather than a simple plot unfolding about a main character. The earliest forms were invariably in verse, but the 15th century saw many in prose, often retelling the old, rhymed versions.\n\nThe romantic form pursued the wish-fulfillment dream where the heroes and heroines were considered representations of the ideals of the age while the villains embodied the threat to their ascendancy. There is also a persistent archetype, which involved a hero's quest. This quest or journey served as the structure that held the narrative together. With regards to the structure, scholars recognize the similarity of the romance to folk tales. Vladimir Propp identified a basic form for this genre and it involved an order that began with initial situation, then followed by departure, complication, first move, second move, and resolution. This structure is also applicable to romance narratives.\n\nOverwhelmingly, these were linked in some way, perhaps only in an opening frame story, with three thematic cycles of tales: these were assembled in imagination at a late date as the \"Matter of Rome\" (actually centered on the life and deeds of Alexander the Great conflated with the Trojan War), the \"Matter of France\" (Charlemagne and Roland, his principal paladin) and the \"Matter of Britain\" (the lives and deeds of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, within which was incorporated the quest for the Holy Grail); medieval authors explicitly described these as comprising all romances.\n\nIn reality, a number of \"non-cyclical\" romances were written without any such connection; these include such romances as \"King Horn\", \"Robert the Devil\", \"Ipomadon\", \"Emaré\", \"Havelok the Dane\",\"Roswall and Lillian\", \"Le Bone Florence of Rome\", and \"Amadas\".\n\nIndeed, some tales are found so often that scholars group them together as the \"Constance cycle\" or the \"Crescentia cycle\"—referring not to a continuity of character and setting, but to the recognizable plot.\n\nMany influences are clear in the forms of chivalric romance.\n\nThe medieval romance developed out of the medieval epic, in particular the Matter of France developing out of such tales as the \"Chanson de Geste\", with intermediate forms where the feudal bonds of loyalty had giants, or a magical horn, added to the plot. The epics of Charlemagne, unlike such ones as \"Beowulf\", already had feudalism rather than the tribal loyalties; this was to continue in romances.\n\nThe romance form is distinguished from the earlier epics of the Middle Ages by the changes of the 12th century, which introduced courtly and chivalrous themes into the works. This occurred regardless of congruity to the source material; Alexander the Great featured as a fully feudal king. Chivalry was treated as continuous from Roman times. This extended even to such details as clothing; when in the \"Seven Sages of Rome\", the son of an (unnamed) emperor of Rome wears the clothing of a sober Italian citizen, and when his stepmother attempts to seduce him, her clothing is described in medieval terminology. When Priam sends Paris to Greece in a 14th-century work, Priam is dressed in the mold of Charlemagne, and Paris is dressed demurely, but in Greece, he adopts the flashier style, with multicolored clothing and fashionable shoes, cut in lattice-work—signs of a seducer in the era.\n\nHistorical figures reappeared, reworked, in romance. The entire Matter of France derived from known figures, and suffered somewhat because their descendants had an interest in the tales that were told of their ancestors, unlike the Matter of Britain. Richard Coeur de Lion reappeared in romance, endowed with a fairy mother who arrived in a ship with silk sails and departed when forced to behold the sacrament, bare-handed combat with a lion, magical rings, and prophetic dreams. Hereward the Wake's early life appeared in chronicles as the embellished, romantic adventures of an exile, complete with rescuing princess and wrestling with bears. Fulk Fitzwarin, an outlaw in King John's day, has his historical background a minor thread in the episodic stream of romantic adventures.\n\nThe earliest medieval romances dealt heavily with themes from folklore, which diminished over time, though remaining a presence. Many early tales had the knight, such as Sir Launfal, meet with fairy ladies, and Huon of Bordeaux is aided by King Oberon, but these fairy characters were transformed, more and more often, into wizards and enchantresses. Morgan le Fay never loses her name, but in \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", she studies magic rather than being inherently magical. Similarly, knights lose magical abilities. Still, fairies never completely vanished from the tradition. \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\" is a late tale, but the Green Knight himself is an otherworldly being.\n\nEarly persecuted heroines were often driven from their husbands' homes by the persecutions of their mothers-in-law, whose motives are seldom delineated, and whose accusations are of the heroines' having borne monstrous children, committed infanticide, or practiced witchcraft — all of which appear in such fairy tales as \"The Girl Without Hands\" and many others. As time progressed, a new persecutor appeared: a courtier who was rejected by the woman or whose ambition requires her removal, and who accuses her of adultery or high treason, motifs not duplicated in fairy tales. While he never eliminates the mother-in-law, many romances such as \"Valentine and Orson\" have later variants that change from the mother-in-law to the courtier, whereas a more recent version never goes back. \n\nIn Italy there is the story called \"Il Bel Gherardino\". It is the most ancient prototype of an Italian singing fairy tale by an anonymous Tuscan author. It tells the story of a young Italian knight, depleted for its \"magnanimitas\", who gets the love of a fairy. When he loses this love because he does not comply with his conditions, Gherardino reconquers his lady after a series of labours, including the prison where he is rescued by another woman and a tournament where he wins. Other examples of Italian (Tuscan) poetry tales are Antonio Pucci's literature: \"Gismirante, Il Brutto di Bretagna\" or \"Brito di Bretagna\" (\"The ugly knight of Britain\") and \"Madonna Lionessa\" (\"Lioness Lady\"). Another work of a second anonymous Italian author that is worth mentioning is \"Istoria di Tre Giovani Disperati e di Tre Fate\" (\"Story of three desperate boys and three fairies\").\n\nSome romances, such as \"Apollonius of Tyre\", show classical pagan origins. Tales of the Matter of Rome in particular may be derived from such works as the Alexander Romance. Ovid was used as a source for tales of Jason and Medea, which were cast in romance in a more fairy-tale like form, probably closer to the older forms than Ovid's rhetoric. It also drew upon the traditions of magic that were attributed to such figures as Virgil.\n\nThe Arthurian cycle also contains many magical elements, some of which appear to be Celtic in origin, but which are chiefly drawn from Christian ritual and story.\n\nThe new courtly love was not one of the original elements of the genre, but quickly became very important when introduced.\n\nIt was introduced to the romance by Chretien de Troyes, combining it with the Matter of Britain, new to French poets. In \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\" (unlike his earlier \"Erec and Enide\"), the behavior of Lancelot conforms to the courtly love ideal; it also, though still full of adventure, devotes an unprecedented amount of time to dealing with the psychological aspects of the love. By the end of the 14th century, counter to the earliest formulations, many French and English romances combined courtly love, with love sickness and devotion on the man's part, with the couple's subsequent marriage; this featured in \"Sir Degrevant\", \"Sir Torrent of Portyngale\", \"Sir Eglamour\", and \"William of Palerne\". \"Ipomadon\" even explicitly describes the married couple as lovers, and the plot of \"Sir Otuel\" was altered, to allow him to marry Belyssant. Similarly, Iberian romances of the 14th century praised monogamy and marriage in such tales as \"Tirant lo Blanc\" and \"Amadis of Gaul\".\n\nMany medieval romances recount the marvellous adventures of a chivalrous, heroic knight, often of super-human ability, who, abiding chivalry's strict codes of honor and demeanor, goes on a quest, and fights and defeats monsters and giants, thereby winning favor with a lady. The Matter of France, most popular early, did not lend itself to the subject of courtly love, but rather dealt with heroic adventure: in \"The Song of Roland\", Roland, though betrothed to Oliver's sister, does not think of her during the course of events. The themes of love were, however, to soon appear, particularly in the Matter of Britain, leading to even the French regarding King Arthur's court as the exemplar of true and noble love, so much so that even the earliest writers about courtly love would claim it had reached its true excellence there, and love was not what it was in King Arthur's day. A perennial theme was the rescue of a lady from the imperiling monster, a theme that would remain throughout the romances of the medieval era.\n\nOriginally, this literature was written in Old French, Anglo-Norman and Occitan, later, in Spanish, English and German— amongst the important Spanish texts were Cantar de Mio Cid and Book of the Knight Zifar; notable later English works being King Horn (a translation of the Anglo-Norman (AN) Romance of Horn of Mestre Thomas), and Havelok the Dane (a translation of the anonymous AN Lai d'Haveloc); around the same time Gottfried von Strassburg's version of the Tristan of Thomas of Britain (a different Thomas to the author of 'Horn') and Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival translated classic French romance narrative into the German tongue.\n\nDuring the early 13th century, romances were increasingly written as prose, and extensively amplified through cycles of continuation. These were collated in the vast, polymorphous manuscript witnesses comprising what is now known as the Vulgate Cycle, with the romance of La Mort le Roi Artu c. 1230, perhaps its final installment. These texts, together with a wide range of further Arthurian material, such as that found in the anonymous cycle of English Brut Chronicles, comprised the bases of Malory's Morte d'Arthur. Prose literature thus increasingly dominated the expression of romance narrative in the later Middle Ages, at least until the resurgence of verse during the high Renaissance in the oeuvres of Ludovico Ariosto, Torquato Tasso, and Edmund Spenser.\n\nIn Old Norse, they are the prose \"riddarasögur\" or chivalric sagas. The genre began in thirteenth-century Norway with translations of French \"chansons de geste\"; it soon expanded to similar indigenous creations. The early fourteenth century saw the emergence of Scandinavian verse romance in Sweden under the patronage of Queen Euphemia of Rügen, who commissioned the \"Eufemiavisorna\".\n\nIn late medieval and Renaissance high culture, the important European literary trend was to fantastic fictions in the mode of Romance. Exemplary work, such as the English \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" by Sir Thomas Malory (c. 1408–1471), the Catalan \"Tirant lo Blanch\", and the Castilian or Portuguese \"Amadis de Gaula\" (1508), spawned many imitators, and the genre was popularly well-received, producing such masterpiece of Renaissance poetry as Ludovico Ariosto's \"Orlando furioso\" and Torquato Tasso's \"Gerusalemme Liberata\" and other 16th-century literary works in the romance genre. The romances were freely drawn upon for royal pageantry. Queen Elizabeth I's Accession Day tilts, for instance, drew freely on the multiplicity of incident from romances for the knights' disguises. Knights even assumed the names of romantic figures, such as the Swan Knight, or the coat-of-arms of such figures as Lancelot or Tristan.\n\nFrom the high Middle Ages, in works of piety, clerical critics often deemed romances to be harmful worldly distractions from more substantive or moral works, and by 1600 many secular readers would agree; in the judgement of many learned readers in the shifting intellectual atmosphere of the 17th century, the romance was trite and childish literature, inspiring only broken-down ageing and provincial persons such as Don Quixote, knight of the culturally isolated province of La Mancha. \"Hudibras\" also lampoons the faded conventions of chivalrous romance, from an ironic, consciously realistic viewpoint. Some of the magical and exotic atmosphere of Romance informed tragedies for the stage, such as John Dryden's collaborative \"The Indian Queen\" (1664) as well as Restoration spectaculars and \"opera seria\", such as Handel's \"Rinaldo\" (1711), based on a magical interlude in Tasso's \"Gerusalemme liberata\".\n\nIn the Renaissance, also, the romance genre was bitterly attacked as barbarous and silly by the humanists, who exalted Greek and Latin classics and classical forms, an attack that was not in that century very effective among the common readers. In England, romances continued; heavily rhetorical, they often had complex plots and high sentiment, such as in Robert Greene's \"Pandosto\" (the source for William Shakespeare's \"The Winter's Tale\") and Thomas Lodge's \"Rosalynde\" (based on the medieval romance \"Gamelyn\" and the source for \"As You Like It\"), \"Robert Duke of Normandy\" (based on Robert the Devil) and \"A Margarite of America\".\n\n\"Don Quixote\" (1605, 1615), by Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (1547–1616), is a satirical story of an elderly country gentleman, living in La Mancha province, who is so obsessed by chivalric romances that he seeks to emulate their various heroes.\n\nThe Acritic songs (dealing with Digenis Acritas and his fellow frontiersmen) resemble much the \"chanson de geste\", though they developed simultaneously but separately. These songs dealt with the hardships and adventures of the border guards of the Eastern Roman Empire (Byzantium) - including their love affairs - and where a predominantly oral tradition which survived in the Balkans and Anatolia until modern times. This genre may have intermingled with its Western counterparts during the long occupation of Byzantine territories by French and Italian knights after the 4th crusade. This is suggested by later works in the Greek language which show influences from both traditions.\n\nIn later Romances, particularly those of French origin, there is a marked tendency to emphasize themes of courtly love, such as faithfulness in adversity. From c. 1760 - usually cited as 1764 at the publication of Horace Walpole's \"The Castle of Otranto\" - the connotations of \"romance\" moved from fantastic and eerie, somewhat Gothic adventure narratives of novelists like Ann Radcliffe's \"A Sicilian Romance\" (1790) or \"The Romance of the Forest\" (1791) with erotic content to novels centered on the episodic development of a courtship that ends in marriage. With a female protagonist, during the rise of Romanticism the depiction of the course of such a courtship within contemporary conventions of realism, the female equivalent of the \"novel of education\", informs much Romantic fiction. In gothic novels such as Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\", the elements of romantic seduction and desire were mingled with fear and dread. Nathaniel Hawthorne used the term to distinguish his works as romances rather than novels, and literary criticism of the 19th century often accepted the contrast between the romance and the novel, in such works as H. G. Wells's \"scientific romances\" in the beginning of science fiction.\n\nIn 1825, the fantasy genre developed when the Swedish literary work \"Frithjof's saga\", which was based on the \"Friðþjófs saga ins frœkna\", became successful in England and Germany. It was translated twenty-two times into English, 20 times into German, and into many other European languages, including modern Icelandic in 1866. Their influence on authors such as J. R. R. Tolkien, William Morris and Poul Anderson and on the subsequent modern fantasy genre is considerable.\n\nModern usage of term \"romance\" usually refer to the romance novel, which is a subgenre that focuses on the relationship and romantic love between two people; these novels must have an \"emotionally satisfying and optimistic ending.\"\n\nDespite the popularity of this popular meaning of Romance, other works are still, occasionally, referred to as romances because of their uses of other elements descended from the medieval romance, or from the Romantic movement: larger-than-life heroes and heroines, drama and adventure, marvels that may become fantastic, themes of honor and loyalty, or fairy-tale-like stories and story settings. Shakespeare's later comedies, such as \"The Tempest\" or \"The Winter's Tale\" are sometimes called his romances. Modern works may differentiate from love-story as romance into different genres, such as planetary romance or Ruritanian romance. Science fiction was, for a time, termed scientific romance, and gaslamp fantasy is sometimes termed gaslight romance. Flannery O'Conner, writing of the use of grotesque in fiction, talked of its use in \"the modern romance tradition.\"\n\nMedieval examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "232905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232905", "title": "Code-switching", "text": "Code-switching\n\nIn linguistics, code-switching occurs when a speaker alternates between two or more languages, or language varieties, in the context of a single conversation. Multilinguals, speakers of more than one language, sometimes use elements of multiple languages when conversing with each other. Thus, code-switching is the use of more than one linguistic variety in a manner consistent with the syntax and phonology of each variety.\n\nCode-switching is distinct from other language contact phenomena, such as borrowing, pidgins and creoles, loan translation (calques), and language transfer (language interference). Borrowing affects the lexicon, the words that make up a language, while code-switching takes place in individual utterances. Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages. Code mixing is a thematically related term, but the usage of the terms \"code-switching\" and \"code-mixing\" varies. Some scholars use either term to denote the same practice, while others apply \"code-mixing\" to denote the formal linguistic properties of language-contact phenomena and \"code-switching\" to denote the actual, spoken usages by multilingual persons.\n\nIn the 1940s and the 1950s, many scholars considered code-switching to be a substandard use of language. Since the 1980s, however, most scholars have come to regard it as a normal, natural product of bilingual and multilingual language use.\n\nThe term \"code-switching\" is also used outside the field of linguistics. Some scholars of literature use the term to describe literary styles that include elements from more than one language, as in novels by Chinese-American, Anglo-Indian, or Latino writers. In popular usage, \"code-switching\" is sometimes used to refer to relatively stable informal mixtures of two languages, such as Spanglish, Taglish, or Hinglish. Both in popular usage and in sociolinguistic study, the name code-switching is sometimes used to refer to switching among dialects, styles or registers. This form of switching is practiced, for example, by speakers of African American Vernacular English as they move from less formal to more formal settings. Such shifts, when performed by public figures such as politicians, are sometimes criticized as signalling inauthenticity or insincerity.\n\nCode-switching relates to, and sometimes indexes social-group membership in bilingual and multilingual communities. Some sociolinguists describe the relationships between code-switching behaviours and class, ethnicity, and other social positions.\nIn addition, scholars in interactional linguistics and conversation analysis have studied code-switching as a means of structuring speech in interaction. Some discourse analysts, including conversation analyst Peter Auer, suggest that code-switching does not simply reflect social situations, but that it is a means to create social situations.\n\nThe Markedness Model, developed by Carol Myers-Scotton, is one of the more complete theories of code-switching motivations. It posits that language users are rational and choose to speak a language that clearly marks their rights and obligations, relative to other speakers, in the conversation and its setting. When there is no clear, unmarked language choice, speakers practice code-switching to explore possible language choices. Many sociolinguists, however, object to the Markedness Model’s postulation that language-choice is entirely rational.\n\nScholars of conversation analysis such as Peter Auer and Li Wei argue that the social motivation behind code-switching lies in the way code-switching is structured and managed in conversational interaction; in other words, the question of why code-switching occurs cannot be answered without first addressing the question of how it occurs. Using conversation analysis (CA), these scholars focus their attention on the sequential implications of code-switching. That is, whatever language a speaker chooses to use for a conversational turn, or part of a turn, impacts the subsequent choices of language by the speaker as well as the hearer. Rather than focusing on the social values inherent in the languages the speaker chooses (\"brought-along meaning\"), the analysis concentrates on the meaning that the act of code-switching itself creates (\"brought-about meaning\").\n\nThe communication accommodation theory (CAT), developed by Howard Giles, professor of communication at the University of California, Santa Barbara, seeks to explain the cognitive reasons for code-switching, and other changes in speech, as a person either emphasizes or minimizes the social differences between himself and the other person(s) in conversation. Giles posits that when speakers seek approval in a social situation they are likely to converge their speech with that of the other speaker. This can include, but is not limited to, the language of choice, accent, dialect, and para-linguistic features used in the conversation. In contrast to convergence, speakers might also engage in divergent speech, in which an individual person emphasizes the social distance between himself and other speakers by using speech with linguistic features characteristic of his own group.\n\nIn a diglossic situation, some topics and situations are better suited to the use of one language over another. Joshua Fishman proposes a domain-specific code-switching model (later refined by Blom and Gumperz) wherein bilingual speakers choose which code to speak depending on where they are and what they are discussing. For example, a child who is a bilingual Spanish-English speaker might speak Spanish at home and English in class, but Spanish at recess.\n\nScholars use different names for various types of code-switching.\n\n\nMost code-switching studies primarily focus on intra-sentential switching, as it creates many hybrid grammar structures that require explanation. The other types involve utterances that simply follow the grammar of one language or the other. Intra-sentential switching can be alternational or insertional. In alternational code-switching, a new grammar emerges that is a combination of the grammars of the two languages involved. Insertional code-switching involves \"the insertion of elements from one language into the morphosyntactic frame of the other.\"\n\nThere are several reasons to switch codes in a single conversation.\n\nIn studying the syntactic and morphological patterns of language alternation, linguists have postulated specific grammatical rules and specific syntactic boundaries for where code-switching might occur.\n\nShana Poplack's model of code-switching is the best known theory of the underlying grammar of code-switching. In this model, code-switching is subject to two constraints. The \"free-morpheme constraint\" stipulates that code-switching cannot occur between a lexical stem and bound morphemes. Essentially, this constraint distinguishes code-switching from borrowing. Generally, borrowing occurs in the lexicon, while code-switching occurs at either the syntax level or the utterance-construction level. The \"equivalence constraint\" predicts that switches occur only at points where the surface structures of the languages coincide, or between sentence elements that are normally ordered in the same way by each individual grammar. For example, the sentence: \"I like you \"porque eres simpático\"\" (\"I like you \"because you are nice\"\") is allowed because it obeys the syntactic rules of both Spanish and English. Cases like the noun phrases \"the casa white\" and \"the blanca house\" are ruled out because the combinations are ungrammatical in at least one of the languages involved. Spanish noun phrases are made up of determiners, then nouns, then adjectives, while the adjectives come before the nouns in English noun phrases. \"The casa white\" is ruled out by the equivalence constraint because it does not obey the syntactic rules of English, and \"the blanca house\" is ruled out because it does not follow the syntactic rules of Spanish.\n\nCritics cite weaknesses of Sankoff and Poplack's model. The free-morpheme and equivalence constraints are insufficiently restrictive, meaning there are numerous exceptions that occur. For example, the free morpheme constraint does not account for why switching is impossible between certain free morphemes. The sentence: \"The students had \"visto la película italiana\"\" (\"The students had \"seen the Italian movie\"\") does not occur in Spanish-English code-switching, yet the free-morpheme constraint would seem to posit that it can. The equivalence constraint would also rule out switches that occur commonly in languages, as when Hindi postpositional phrases are switched with English prepositional phrases like in the sentence: \"John gave a book \"ek larakii ko\"\" (\"John gave a book \"to a girl\"\"). The phrase \"ek larakii ko\" is literally translated as \"a girl to,\" making it ungrammatical in English, and yet this is a sentence that occurs in English-Hindi code-switching despite the requirements of the equivalence constraint. The Sankoff and Poplack model only identifies points at which switching is blocked, as opposed to explaining which constituents can be switched and why.\n\nCarol Myers-Scotton's Matrix Language-Frame (MLF) model is the dominant model of insertional code-switching. The MLF model posits that there is a Matrix Language (ML) and an Embedded Language (EL). In this case, elements of the Embedded Language are inserted into the morphosyntactic frame of the Matrix Language. The hypotheses are as follows (Myers-Scotton 1993b: 7):\n\nThe Matrix Language Hypothesis states that those grammatical procedures in the central structure in the language production system which account for the surface structure of the Matrix Language + Embedded Language constituent (linguistics) are only Matrix Language–based procedures. Further, the hypothesis is intended to imply that frame-building precedes content morpheme insertion. A Matrix Language can be the first language of the speaker or the language in which the morphemes or words are more frequently used in speech, so the dominant language is the Matrix Language and the other is the Embedded Language. A Matrix Language island is a constituent composed entirely of Matrix Language morphemes.\n\nAccording to the Blocking Hypothesis, in Matrix Language + Embedded Language constituents, a blocking filter blocks any Embedded Language content morpheme which is not congruent with the Matrix Language with respect to three levels of abstraction regarding subcategorization. \"Congruence\" is used in the sense that two entities, linguistic categories in this case, are congruent if they correspond in respect of relevant qualities.\n\nThe three levels of abstraction are:\n\n\nWe see that example 1 is consistent with the Blocking Hypothesis and the system content morpheme criteria, so the prediction is that the Hindi equivalents are also content morphemes. Sometimes non-congruence between counterparts in the Matrix Language and Embedded Language can be circumvented by accessing bare forms. \"Cell\" is a bare form and so the thematic role of \"cell\" is assigned by the verb \"-wek-\" 'put in/on'; this means that the verb is a content morpheme.\n\nThe Embedded Language Island Trigger Hypothesis states that when an Embedded Language morpheme appears which is not permitted under either the Matrix Language Hypothesis or Blocking Hypothesis, it triggers the inhibition of all Matrix Language accessing procedures and completes the current constituent as an Embedded Language island. Embedded Language islands consist only of Embedded Language morphemes and are well-formed by Embedded Language grammar, but they are inserted in the Matrix Language frame. Therefore, Embedded Language islands are under the constraint of Matrix Language grammar.\n\n\nExample 1 is ungrammatical (indicated by the leading asterisk) because \"your\" is accessed, so the Embedded Language Island Trigger Hypothesis predicts that it must be followed by an English head (e.g., \"your letter\") as an Embedded Language island. The reason is that possessive adjectives are system morphemes. We see the same thing happen in example 2, which is therefore ungrammatical. However, the correct way to finish the sentence is not \"for wewe\", switching back to Swahili; rather, it should end with \"for you\", which would be an Embedded Language island.\n\nThe Embedded Language Implicational Hierarchy Hypothesis can be stated as two sub-hypotheses: \n\nThe Implication Hierarchy of Embedded Language Islands:\n\n\nWe see example 1 work because the French Embedded Language island \"Le matin de bonne heure\", \"early in the morning\", is a time expression. (Also, it is repeated in Wolof in the second sentence.) In example 2, we see the quantifier \"a lot of\" is a predicted Embedded Language island. Here we see an objective complement of a finite verb begin with the quantifier.\n\nJeff MacSwan has posited a \"constraint-free approach\" to analyzing code-switching. This approach views explicit reference to code-switching in grammatical analysis as tautological, and seeks to explain specific instances of grammaticality in terms of the unique contributions of the grammatical properties of the languages involved. MacSwan characterizes the approach with the refrain, \"Nothing constrains code-switching apart from the requirements of the mixed grammars.\" The approach focuses on the repudiation of any rule or principle which explicitly refers to code-switching itself. This approach does not recognize or accept terms such as \"matrix language\", \"embedded language\", or \"language frame\", which are typical in constraint-based approaches such as the MLF Model.\n\nRather than posit constraints specific to language alternation, as in traditional work in the field, MacSwan advocates that mixed utterances be analyzed with a focus on the specific and unique linguistic contributions of each language found in a mixed utterance. Because these analyses draw on the full range of linguistic theory, and each data set presents its own unique challenges, a much broader understanding of linguistics is generally needed to understand and participate in this style of codeswitching research.\n\nFor example, Cantone and MacSwan (2009) analyzed word order differences for nouns and adjectives in Italian-German codeswitching using a typological theory of Cinque that had been independently proposed in the syntax literature; their account derives the word order facts of Italian-German codeswitching from underlying differences between the two languages, according to Cinque's theory.\n\nMuch remains to be done before a more complete understanding of code-switching phenomena is achieved. Linguists continue to debate apparent counter-examples to proposed code-switching theories and constraints.\n\nThe \"Closed-class Constraint\", developed by Aravind Joshi, posits that closed class items (pronouns, prepositions, conjunctions, etc.) cannot be switched. The \"Functional Head Constraint\" developed by Belazi et al. holds that code-switching cannot occur between a functional head (a complementizer, a determiner, an inflection, etc.) and its complement (sentence, noun-phrase, verb-phrase). These constraints, among others like the Matrix Language-Frame model, are controversial among linguists positing alternative theories, as they are seen to claim universality and make general predictions based upon specific presumptions about the nature of syntax.\n\nMyers-Scotton and MacSwan debated the relative merits of their approaches in a series of exchanges published in 2005 in \"\", issues 8(1) and 8(2).\n\nIn this section, segments that are switched from the primary language of the conversation are shown in red.\n\nResearcher Ana Celia Zentella offers this example from her work with Puerto Rican Spanish-English bilingual speakers in New York City. In this example, and her younger sister, , speak Spanish and English with outside of their apartment building.\n\nZentella explains that the children of the predominantly Puerto Rican neighbourhood speak both English and Spanish: \"Within the children’s network, English predominated, but code-switching from English to Spanish occurred once every three minutes, on average.\"\n\nThis example of switching from French to Tamil comes from ethnographer Sonia Das's work with immigrants from Jaffna, Sri Lanka, to Quebec.\n\n, who moved from Sri Lanka to Quebec as a child and now identifies as Québécois, speaks to Das in French. When Selvamani's sister, Mala, laughs, switches to Tamil to ask Mala why she is laughing. After this aside, continues to speak in French. also uses the word \"tsé\" (\"you know\", contraction of \"tu sais\") and the expression \"je me pas poigné\" (\"I will not be handled\"), which are not standard French but are typical of the working-class Montreal dialect Joual.\n\nResearcher Paul Kroskrity offers the following example of code-switching by , who are trilingual in Tewa, Hopi, and English. They are discussing the selection of a site for a new high school in the eastern Hopi Reservation:\n\nIn their two-hour conversation, the primarily speak Tewa; however, when addresses the Hopi Reservation as a whole, he code-switches to Hopi. His speaking Hopi when talking of Hopi-related matters is a conversational norm in the Arizona Tewa speech community. Kroskrity reports that these Arizona Tewa men, who culturally identify themselves as Hopi \"and\" Tewa, use the different languages to linguistically construct and maintain their discrete ethnic identities.\n"}
{"id": "19569292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19569292", "title": "Coffee, Tea or Me?", "text": "Coffee, Tea or Me?\n\nCoffee, Tea or Me? is a book of purported memoirs by the fictitious stewardesses Trudy Baker and Rachel Jones, written by the initially uncredited Donald Bain and first published in 1967. The book depicts the anecdotal lives of two lusty young stewardesses, and was originally presented as factual.\n\nDonald Bain revealed in his 2002 memoir \"Every Midget Has an Uncle Sam Costume: Writing for a Living\" that he wrote \"Coffee, Tea or Me?\" and three sequels while employed as a New York City-based American Airlines public relations person. The publisher hired two Eastern Airlines stewardesses to pose as the authors for book tours and television appearances. As \"The New York Times\" columnist Joe Sharkey described in 2010,\nBain himself said, \"I wrote it in 1966 while working in public relations for American Airlines, and it went on to spawn an entire genre of wacky comedies, including three direct sequels. All in all, the four books sold more than five million copies worldwide, and became my annuity for almost 17 years.\n\nThe Bartholomew House Ltd., a division of Bartell Media Corporation, published a hardcover edition in October 1967, with a second printing in December, and a third in January 1968. Bantam Books, at that time a subsidiary of Grosset & Dunlap, released a paperback edition in November 1968, and had reached its tenth printing by January 1969. Bain was uncredited other than in a dedication, until the 2003 edition, in which he was credited beneath the Baker and Jones byline as \"with Donald Bain.\"\n\nThe Penguin Group, the publisher as of the 21st century, describes the book as \"adult fiction\".\n\nWritten in the first person voice of Trudy Baker, with Bain's name appearing as a dedication between the index of chapters and the foreword, the book describes a kind of glamorous lifestyle from the stewardess' point of view, working for two years for an unnamed American carrier out of a New York crewbase during the golden age of airline travel.\n\nIt is written to emphasize the sexy parts of the job, although difficult experiences are also recounted, and reflects the shifts in society and culture then underway. It also contains content that could in later decades be deemed sexist, and dated descriptions of homosexuality; chapter X is titled \"They Looked So Normal\". In chapter XIV, the attendants list one of the types of passengers that could be denied boarding rights — \"most recently, men wearing earrings.\" Illustrations by men's-magazine cartoonist Bill Wenzel depict the flight attendants and female passengers as buxom sexpots.\n\nThe book contains period references to television shows such as \"Batman\" and lists of celebrities the authors claim to have carried on their flights, as well as an incidental description of the airline introducing Boeing 727 service. Other equipment mentioned includes the Boeing 707 and the smaller BAC 111. People's names are fictitious, excepting the famous, and there is no way to gauge the accuracy of any of the accounts.\n\nThe two most likely candidates for which airline the stewardesses supposedly worked for are American Airlines and Braniff International Airways, the only carriers who purchased BAC-111s to supplement fleets of Boeing 707s and 727s in the mid-1960s time frame of the novel. Mohawk Airlines, a northeast regional line, ordered four BAC-111s but never operated the larger Boeings in its fleet, nor did its regions of service match those described in the book.\n\nCapitalizing on the success of the publication, Bain wrote three sequels: \"The Coffee Tea or Me Girls' Round-the-World Diary\" (1969), \"The Coffee Tea or Me Girls Lay It on the Line\" (1972) and \"The Coffee Tea or Me Girls Get Away from It All\" (1974). A TV film of the same title, loosely based on \"Coffee, Tea or Me?\" was made in 1973.\n\nThe Jaggerz' #2 hit \"The Rapper\" from 1970 contains the line \"come up to my place for some coffee, or tea, or me.\" The phrase is also mentioned in the 1978 Skyhooks song \"Women in Uniform\" and the 1988 film Working Girl.\n\nThe book appears briefly in the 1997 Disney film \"George of the Jungle\" where it is described as a good source of courtship behaviour.\n\nThe book's title lent itself to a 2002 documentary of the same name, which interviewed air hostesses who worked in the New Zealand airline industry in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\n"}
{"id": "21938801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21938801", "title": "Coronation of the Virgin (Velázquez)", "text": "Coronation of the Virgin (Velázquez)\n\nThe Coronation of the Virgin is a painting by Diego Velázquez of the Holy Trinity crowning the Blessed Virgin Mary, a theme in Marian art. It is now at the Museo del Prado.\n\nIt was probably commissioned for the oratory of the court of Elisabeth of France, queen consort to Philip IV of Spain, in the Real Alcázar of Madrid. There it joined others on Marian religious festivities by the Naples painter Andrea Vaccaro which had been brought to Madrid by cardinal Gaspar de Borja y Velasco. The model for Mary in the work may be the same model as the artist used for the \"Rokeby Venus\".\n\nVelázquez's coronation of the Virgin is exceptional for being a rare religious work by an artist better known for his portraits, and for the air of naturalness and simplicity not found in works by other Baroque religious painters. Its composition is based on an inverted triangle, giving a sense of great equilibrium and harmonious lines and reminiscent (both in its colour and form) of a heart. The main figure is the Virgin Mary, with a modest, reverential, and emotional expression, lowered eyes, a straight nose and curved lips. The sense that the inverted triangle is meant to refer to a heart is reinforced and the viewer's piety invoked by Mary pointing to her own heart.\n\nTo the viewer's right is God the Father, represented as a dignified old man, whilst to the left is the long-haired figure of Jesus Christ - together they hold Mary's crown above her head. In the centre the Holy Spirit is represented in the form of a white dove. The two figures' heads and the dove are all level, on the line of the triangle's base, representing their equality within the Holy Trinity. Also notable are the cherubs round the Virgin at the base of the painting - their pictorial quality rivals that of Murillo, famous for his cherub-themed works.\n\nThe colours Velázquez uses are blues and violets. He also used carmines (especially Venetian carmine) instead of traditional reds, following the advice of his tutor Pacheco as written down in his book \"Arte de la Pintura\", despite Velázquez already being an acclaimed artist and well beyond his student years by the time of producing this painting.\n\n"}
{"id": "36106389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36106389", "title": "Critical understanding", "text": "Critical understanding\n\nCritical understanding is a term used commonly in education to define a mode of thinking, described as, ‘an essential tool for participating in democratic processes, at whatever level.’ It is a defensible position reached through the examination of ideas, issues or sources. It is achieved through reflecting upon, analysing and evaluating different ideas and positions, and is demonstrated through an ability to express informed responses and independent thought. Critical understanding develops through analytical and independent thought and is considered an increasingly important element of the education process as students progress to higher and further education. However it is not an easy concept to communicate for it is not a passive thing we do; it is about active engagement.\n\nCritical understanding is a cerebral mode of comprehension, it is a way of thinking, and thus is not dependent upon external expression. Yet it requires external manifestation in order to be communicated. The expression of critical understanding can take various forms including formal or informal speech, academic writing, creative prose or poetry or visual outcomes. It can take different forms in different cultures and this needs to be taken into consideration when assessing critical results.\nThe term \"critical\" in this context is not meant in a negative sense; rather it outlines a process of thinking. Critical understanding is used to define the process of formulating and understanding a complex problem or difficult set of ideas. In a general sense, it is, ‘a consequence of men’s [sic] beginning to reflect about their own capacity for reflection, about the world, about their position in the world.’\n\nThe notion of critical understanding is closely related to the concept of Critical Thinking, described as, ‘reasonable reflective thinking focused on deciding what to believe or do.’ Critical thinking has also been described as, ‘thinking about thinking’, specifically in relation to John Dewey’s work on ‘the problem of training thought’. Critical understanding has its roots in the notion of pluralism, the idea of multiple approaches, methods and interpretations in which dialogue plays an important role. In a pedagogical sense it is closely linked to the theory of Education for Critical Consciousness, outlined by Paulo Freire, Brazilian educator and critical theorist, who wrote, ‘Only dialogue, which requires critical thinking, is also capable of generating critical thinking. Without dialogue there is no communication, and without communication there can be no true education.’\n\nIn Secondary education in the UK, critical understanding can be used as an umbrella term to define thinking skills which encourage children to, ‘have enquiring minds and think for themselves to process information, reason, question and evaluate’\nStudents’ ability to apply critical thought to a given task is important across the curriculum. Although not always explicitly labelled students are encouraged to develop thinking skills that develop from simple identification to successful evaluation. This follows Bloom's Taxonomy, outlined in the standard text, Taxonomy of educational objectives: the classification of educational goals. This taxonomy is a classification of learning objectives aimed to motivate educators to develop teaching and learning styles that will develop students’ evaluative skills and critical understanding.\n\nIn Art and Design, the term Critical Understanding is explicitly outlined. The National Curriculum (England, Wales and Northern Ireland) programme of study for Key Stage 3 Art and Design states:\n\nCritical Understanding\nThe term is also used on assessment grids for GCSE and GCE (General Certificate of Education) on the various exam boards including Edexcel, AQA and OCR. The Edexcel GCSE assessment grid asks students to:\n'Present a personal, informed and meaningful response demonstrating analytical and critical understanding realising intentions and, where appropriate, making connections between visual, written, oral or other elements.'\nThe revision website, BBC Bitesize, aimed to support students through GCSE exams and coursework states:\n'Critical understanding is about reflecting on your own work and that of other artists, designers and craftspeople. You need to be able to look closely at how artists and designers communicate their ideas, feelings and beliefs through their work. Your knowledge of the work of others should help you to develop your thinking, and this influence should be apparent in your own work.'\n\nThe ability to think critically is an important skill when approaching the question of research and particularly the use of the Internet as a research tool in schools. Learning to use the Internet safely and successfully is considered by some to be a vital element of education in contemporary society.\nWhile the Internet has great learning possibilities it requires a critical approach. Kony 2012 and the subsequent online response is an example of an Internet phenomenon requiring critical understanding. In order to develop an independent and informed response a critical approach is required through which the issues, ideas and opinions presented can be questioned, analysed and reflected upon.\n\n"}
{"id": "50081515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50081515", "title": "Fibonacci Sequence (ensemble)", "text": "Fibonacci Sequence (ensemble)\n\nThe Fibonacci Sequence is a British chamber ensemble cofounded by horn player Stephen Stirling in 1984. Purposefully flexible, the ensemble is capable of concert programs ranging from solo up to a dectet featuring strings, winds, brass, piano, and percussion. According to \"Gramophone\" in 2003, \"no praise can be too high for the Fibonacci Sequence's polished and dashingly committed performances.\"\n\nPianist Kathron Sturrock is the artistic director. Other musicians include double bassist Duncan McTier and violist Yuko Inoue.\n\nGraham Fitkin composed a sextet, \"Sinew\" (first performed 2009), for the ensemble. The ensemble has released fourteen albums and appeared on at least six non-ensemble albums. Their 2012 album featured clarinetist Julian Farrell as soloist.\n\n"}
{"id": "4693408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4693408", "title": "Finvenkismo", "text": "Finvenkismo\n\nFinvenkismo () is an ideological current within the Esperanto movement dating back to L. L. Zamenhof, the initiator of Esperanto. The name is derived from the concept of a \"fina venko\" (English: final victory) denoting the moment when Esperanto will be used as the predominant second language throughout the world. A finvenkist is thus someone who hopes for and/or works towards this \"final victory\" of Esperanto. According to some finvenkists, this \"final victory\" of Esperanto may help eradicate war, chauvinism and cultural oppression.\n\nRecently, some Esperantists have campaigned for the expression \"fina venko\" to be replaced with \"fina sukceso\" (\"final success\") because the former reminds some people of war due to its similarity to the German word \"endsieg\".\n\nAs Zamenhof created Esperanto with the goal of eventual use by everyone as a second language for international communication, finvenkismo has been around for as long as Esperanto itself. In the early days of the Esperanto movement, essentially all Esperantists were also finvenkists. However, as the Esperanto community grew, so did the diversity of ideologies among Esperantists, some of whom began to challenge the merits of finvenkismo. Thus, one could be an Esperantist without being a finvenkist at all.\n\nDuring the 1910 World Esperanto Congress, Zamenhof highlighted two ways that \"fina venko\" could be achieved: through diligent self-directed study of Esperanto by all people in the world, or by government action permitting or requiring Esperanto literacy to be taught in schools:\nAmong Esperantists, as Esperanto matured, the two ways began to be called ' (\"from below -ism\") and ' (\"from above -ism\") respectively.\n\nSince 1980, finvenkismo encountered criticism by so-called \"raŭmistoj\". This ideological current interprets the Esperanto community as a language diaspora, whose members should not concentrate on the propagation of the language but rather on its cultivation. The term \"Raŭmismo\" comes from the Manifesto of Rauma signed by many participants of the International Youth Congress in the Finnish town Rauma in 1980.\n\nSoon the word \"Raŭmismo\" acquired two different meanings: According to some, a \"Raŭmist\" is just someone who uses Esperanto without propagating it. According to the more ideological \"Raŭmismo\", a \"Raŭmist\" is someone who considers the Esperanto community a self chosen linguistic minority and supports attempts to get a state-like representation for this minority. This more ideological \"Raŭmismo\" is now often called \"Civitanismo\", because it is the official ideology of the \"Esperanta Civito\" (Esperanto Citizens' Community), an organisation which attempts to be such a state-like representation of the Esperanto diaspora.\n\nEven though nowadays most Esperantists highly value cultivating the language—and the proportion of Esperanto-speakers who cultivate the language without propagating it is larger than ever—the ideological \"Raŭmismo\" (\"Civitanismo\") has isolated itself somewhat within the Esperanto community because Civitanists are perceived to spend more energy on criticising the finvenkist Esperanto movement than on cultivating Esperanto.\n\nIn response to the criticisms from Raŭmists, the finvenkist Esperanto movement has produced the Prague Manifesto, which attempts at showing the importance of finvenkismo in our modern society by emphasizing democratic communication, language rights, preservation of language diversity, and effective language education.\n\n"}
{"id": "912421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912421", "title": "Forced assimilation", "text": "Forced assimilation\n\nForced assimilation is a process of cultural assimilation of religious or ethnic minority groups that is forced into an established and generally larger community. Also enforcement of a new language in legislation, education, literature, worshiping counts as forced assimilation. Unlike ethnic cleansing, the local population is not forced to leave a certain area. Instead the population becomes assimilated by force. It has often been used after an area has changed nationality, often in the aftermath of war. Some examples are both the German and French forced assimilation in the provinces Alsace and (at least a part of) Lorraine, and some decades after the Swedish conquests of the Danish provinces Scania, Blekinge and Halland the local population was submitted to forced assimilation.\n\nIf a state puts extreme emphasis on a homogeneous national identity, it may resort, especially in the case of minorities originating from historical foes, to harsh, even extreme measures to 'exterminate' the minority culture, sometimes to the point of considering the only alternative its physical elimination (expulsion or even genocide).\n\nStates, mostly based on the idea of nation, perceived the presence of ethnic or linguistic minorities as a danger for their own territorial integrity. In fact minorities could claim their own independence, or to be rejoined with their own motherland. The consequence was the weakening or disappearing of several ethnic minorities. Forced migrations took place after each of the two world wars.\n\nThe latter half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century saw the rise of nationalism. Previously, a country consisted largely of whatever peoples lived on the land that was under the dominion of a particular ruler. Thus, as principalities and kingdoms grew through conquest and marriage, a ruler could wind up with peoples of many different ethnicities under his dominion. This also reflected the long history of migrations of different tribes and peoples through Europe.\n\nThe concept of nationalism was based on the idea of a \"people\" who shared a common bond through race, religion, language and culture. Furthermore, nationalism asserted that each \"people\" had a right to its own nation. Much of European history in the latter half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century can be understood as efforts to realign national boundaries with this concept of \"one people, one nation\". Such scenes also happened in Japan and Korea, as the two countries stated themselves as a single-nation country, ethnic minorities had to hide their national identity for centuries, and many resulted in assimilation, such as Ainu and Ryukyuan people in Japan, migrants of Goguryeo, Balhae and Tungusic peoples in Korea. Much conflict would arise when one nation asserted territorial rights to land outside its borders on the basis of a common bond with the people living on that land. (Example: organized territorial rights by Russia for Georgia's breakaway province of South Ossetia to North Ossetia) Another source of conflict arose when a group of people who constituted a minority in one nation would seek to secede from the nation either to form an independent nation or join another nation with whom they felt stronger ties. Yet another source of conflict was the desire of some nations to expel people from territory within its borders on the ground that those people did not share a common bond with the majority of people living in that nation.\n\nIt is useful to contrast the mass migrations and forced expulsion of ethnic Germans out of Eastern Europe with other massive transfers of populations, such as exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey, and population exchanges that occurred after the Partition of India. In all cases those expelled suffered greatly.\n\nAssimilation also includes the (often forced) conversion or secularization of religious members of a minority group.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages and until the mid-19th century, most Jews in Europe were forced to live in small towns (shtetls) and were restricted from entering universities or high-level professions. See also Christianity in Pakistan for contemporary issues.\n\nWhen new immigrants enter a country, there is a tension as they adapt to new people and surroundings to fit in, while holding on to their original culture. Here, studies show that native inhabitants often expect assimilation especially from negatively viewed immigrants. Moreover, assimilation pressure seems to be particularly pronounced toward the second generation of these immigrants.\n"}
{"id": "10698020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10698020", "title": "Formalesque", "text": "Formalesque\n\nThe term Formalesque was coined in 1994 by Australian art historian Bernard Smith to replace \nModernism as the name of the artistic style of the period from around 1890 to 1960, now that this is no longer \"modern\".\n\n\"Modernism\" had emerged as a generic term to replace \"Post-Impressionism\" for the paintings of Manet, Cézanne, van Gogh, and Gauguin. According to Smith, the key emphasis in such work is the importance of \"form\" and \"flatness\". The term was soon applied also in architecture (e.g. Frank Lloyd Wright and Walter Gropius) and sculpture (e.g. Epstein and Brâncuși).\n\nAfter 1960, Modernism was displaced by Postmodernism, and then by the art still at present referred to as \"contemporary art\". Since Modernism is no longer \"modern\", Smith argues that it requires a more appropriate period style name to distinguish it: hence his introduction of Formalesque. Like \"romanesque\" and \"arabesque\", the name is intended to indicate a style that arose by the development of a basic interest in form (but without the specific connotations of the term Formalism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11888", "title": "Golem", "text": "Golem\n\nIn Jewish folklore, a golem ( ; ) is an animated anthropomorphic being that is magically created entirely from inanimate matter (usually clay or mud). The word was used to mean an amorphous, unformed material in Psalms and medieval writing.\n\nThe most famous golem narrative involves Judah Loew ben Bezalel, the late-16th-century rabbi of Prague. There are many tales differing on how the golem was brought to life and afterward controlled. According to \"Moment Magazine\", \"the golem is a highly mutable metaphor with seemingly limitless symbolism. It can be victim or villain, Jew or non-Jew, man or woman—or sometimes both. Over the centuries it has been used to connote war, community, isolation, hope and despair.\"\n\nThe word \"golem\" occurs once in the Bible in , which uses the word (\"golmi\"; my golem), that means \"my light form\", \"raw\" material, connoting the unfinished human being before God's eyes. The Mishnah uses the term for an uncultivated person: \"Seven characteristics are in an uncultivated person, and seven in a learned one,\" (שבעה דברים בגולם) (Pirkei Avot 5:6 in the Hebrew text; English translations vary). In Modern Hebrew, \"golem\" is used to mean \"dumb\" or \"helpless\". Similarly, it is often used today as a metaphor for a brainless lunk or entity who serves a man under controlled conditions but is hostile to him under others. \"Golem\" passed into Yiddish as \"goylem\" to mean someone who is stupid or lethargic.\n\nThe oldest stories of golems date to early Judaism. In the Talmud (Tractate Sanhedrin 38b), Adam was initially created as a golem (גולם) when his dust was \"kneaded into a shapeless husk.\" Like Adam, all golems are created from mud by those close to divinity, but no anthropogenic golem is fully human. Early on, the main disability of the golem was its inability to speak. Sanhedrin 65b describes Rava creating a man (\"gavra\"). He sent the man to Rav Zeira. Rav Zeira spoke to him, but he did not answer. Rav Zeira said, \"You were created by the sages; return to your dust\".\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, passages from the \"Sefer Yetzirah\" (\"Book of Creation\") were studied as a means to create and animate a golem, although there is little in the writings of Jewish mysticism that supports this belief. It was believed that golems could be activated by an ecstatic experience induced by the ritualistic use of various letters of the Hebrew Alphabet forming a \"shem\" (any one of the Names of God), wherein the \"shem\" was written on a piece of paper and inserted in the mouth or in the forehead of the golem.\n\nA golem is inscribed with Hebrew words in some tales (for example, some versions of Chełm and Prague, as well as in Polish tales and versions of Brothers Grimm), such as the word \"emet\" (אמת, \"truth\" in Hebrew) written on its forehead. The golem could then be deactivated by removing the aleph (א) in \"emet\", thus changing the inscription from \"truth\" to \"death\" (\"met\" מת, meaning \"dead\"). Rabbi Jacob ben Shalom arrived at Barcelona from Germany in 1325 and remarked that the law of destruction is the reversal of the law of creation.\n\nOne source credits 11th century Jew Solomon ibn Gabirol with creating a golem, possibly female, for household chores.\n\nJoseph Delmedigo informs us in 1625 that \"many legends of this sort are current, particularly in Germany.\"\n\nThe earliest known written account of how to create a golem can be found in \"Sodei Razayya\" by Eleazar ben Judah of Worms of the late 12th and early 13th century.\n\nThe oldest description of the creation of a golem by a historical figure is included in a tradition connected to Rabbi Eliyahu of Chełm (1550–1583).\n\nA Polish Kabbalist, writing in about 1630–1650, reported the creation of a golem by Rabbi Eliyahu thus: \"And I have heard, in a certain and explicit way, from several respectable persons that one man [living] close to our time, whose name is R. Eliyahu, the master of the name, who made a creature out of matter [Heb. \"Golem\"] and form [Heb. \"tzurah\"] and it performed hard work for him, for a long period, and the name of \"emet\" was hanging upon his neck, until he finally removed it for a certain reason, the name from his neck and it turned to dust.\" A similar account was reported by a Christian author, Christoph Arnold, in 1674.\n\nRabbi Jacob Emden (d. 1776) elaborated on the story in a book published in 1748: \"As an aside, I'll mention here what I heard from my father's holy mouth regarding the Golem created by his ancestor, the Gaon R. Eliyahu Ba'al Shem of blessed memory. When the Gaon saw that the Golem was growing larger and larger, he feared that the Golem would destroy the universe. He then removed the Holy Name that was embedded on his forehead, thus causing him to disintegrate and return to dust. Nonetheless, while he was engaged in extracting the Holy Name from him, the Golem injured him, scarring him on the face.\"\n\nAccording to the Polish Kabbalist, \"the legend was known to several persons, thus allowing us to speculate that the legend had indeed circulated for some time before it was committed to writing and, consequently, we may assume that its origins are to be traced to the generation immediately following the death of R. Eliyahu, if not earlier.\"\n\nThe most famous golem narrative involves Judah Loew ben Bezalel, the late 16th century rabbi of Prague, also known as the Maharal, who reportedly \"created a [g]olem out of clay from the banks of the Vltava River and brought it to life through rituals and Hebrew incantations to defend the Prague ghetto from anti-Semitic attacks\" and pogroms. Depending on the version of the legend, the Jews in Prague were to be either expelled or killed under the rule of Rudolf II, the Holy Roman Emperor. The Golem was called Josef and was known as Yossele. It was said that he could make himself invisible and summon spirits from the dead. Rabbi Loew deactivated the Golem on Friday evenings by removing the \"shem\" before the Sabbath (Saturday) began, so as to let it rest on Sabbath. One Friday evening Rabbi Loew forgot to remove the \"shem\", and feared that the Golem would desecrate the Sabbath. A different story tells of a golem that fell in love, and when rejected, became the violent monster seen in most accounts. Some versions have the golem eventually going on a murderous rampage.\n\nThe rabbi then managed to pull the \"shem\" from his mouth and immobilize him in front of the synagogue, whereupon the golem fell in pieces. The Golem's body was stored in the attic \"genizah\" of the Old New Synagogue, where it would be restored to life again if needed. According to legend, the body of Rabbi Loew's Golem still lies in the synagogue's attic. When the attic was renovated in 1883, no evidence of the Golem was found. Some versions of the tale state that the Golem was stolen from the \"genizah\" and entombed in a graveyard in Prague's Žižkov district, where the Žižkov Television Tower now stands. A recent legend tells of a Nazi agent ascending to the synagogue attic during World War II and trying to stab the Golem, but he died instead. The attic is not open to the general public.\n\nSome Orthodox Jews believe that the Maharal did actually create a golem. The evidence for this belief has been analyzed from an Orthodox Jewish perspective by Shnayer Z. Leiman.\n\nThe general view of historians and critics is that the story of the Golem of Prague was a German literary invention of the early 19th century. According to John Neubauer, the first writers on the Prague Golem were:\n\nHowever, there are in fact a couple of slightly earlier examples, in 1834 and 1836.\n\nAll of these early accounts of the Golem of Prague are in German by Jewish writers. It has been suggested that they emerged as part of a Jewish folklore movement parallel with the contemporary German folklore movement.\n\nThe origins of the story have been obscured by attempts to exaggerate its age and to pretend that it dates from the time of the Maharal. It has been said that Rabbi Yudel Rosenberg (1859–1935) of Tarłów (before moving to Canada where he became one of its most prominent rabbis) originated the idea that the narrative dates from the time of the Maharal. Rosenberg published \"Nifl'os Maharal\" (\"Wonders of Maharal\") (Piotrków, 1909) which purported to be an eyewitness account by the Maharal's son-in-law, who had helped to create the Golem. Rosenberg claimed that the book was based upon a manuscript that he found in the main library in Metz. \"Wonders of Maharal\" \"is generally recognized in academic circles to be a literary hoax\". Gershom Sholem observed that the manuscript \"contains not ancient legends but modern fiction\". Rosenberg's claim was further disseminated in Chayim Bloch's (1881–1973) \"The Golem: Legends of the Ghetto of Prague\" (English edition 1925).\n\nThe \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" of 1906 cites the historical work \"Zemach David\" by David Gans, a disciple of the Maharal, published in 1592. In it, Gans writes of an audience between the Maharal and Rudolph II: \"Our lord the emperor ... Rudolph ... sent for and called upon our master Rabbi Low ben Bezalel and received him with a welcome and merry expression, and spoke to him face to face, as one would to a friend. The nature and quality of their words are mysterious, sealed and hidden.\" But it has been said of this passage, \"Even when [the Maharal is] eulogized, whether in David Gans' \"Zemach David\" or on his epitaph …, not a word is said about the creation of a golem. No Hebrew work published in the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries (even in Prague) is aware that the Maharal created a golem.\" Furthermore, the Maharal himself did not refer to the Golem in his writings. Rabbi Yedidiah Tiah Weil (1721–1805), a Prague resident, who described the creation of golems, including those created by Rabbis Avigdor Kara of Prague (died 1439) and Eliyahu of Chelm, did not mention the Maharal, and Rabbi Meir Perels' biography of the Maharal published in 1718 does not mention a golem.\n\nThere is a similar tradition relating to the Vilna Gaon or \"the saintly genius from Vilnius\" (1720–1797). Rabbi Chaim Volozhin (Lithuania 1749–1821) reported in an introduction to \"Sifra de Tzeniuta\" that he once presented to his teacher, the Vilna Gaon, ten different versions of a certain passage in the \"Sefer Yetzira\" and asked the Gaon to determine the correct text. The Gaon immediately identified one version as the accurate rendition of the passage. The amazed student then commented to his teacher that, with such clarity, he should easily be able to create a live human. The Gaon affirmed Rabbi Chaim's assertion, and said that he once began to create a person when he was a child, under the age of 13, but during the process he received a sign from Heaven ordering him to desist because of his tender age.\n\nThe existence of a golem is sometimes a mixed blessing. Golems are not intelligent, and if commanded to perform a task, they will perform the instructions literally. In many depictions, Golems are inherently perfectly obedient. In its earliest known modern form, the Golem of Chełm became enormous and uncooperative. In one version of this story, the rabbi had to resort to trickery to deactivate it, whereupon it crumbled upon its creator and crushed him. There is a similar hubris theme in \"Frankenstein\", \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\", and some other stories in popular culture, for example: \"The Terminator\". The theme also manifests itself in \"R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots)\", Karel Čapek's 1921 play which coined the term robot; the play was written in Prague, and while Čapek denied that he modeled the robot after the Golem, there are many similarities in the plot.\n\nThe Golem is a popular figure in the Czech Republic. There are several restaurants and other businesses whose names make reference to the creature, a Czech strongman (René Richter) goes by the nickname \"Golem\", and a Czech monster truck outfit calls itself the \"Golem Team.\"\n\nAbraham Akkerman preceded his article on human automatism in the contemporary city with a short satirical poem on a pair of golems turning human.\n\nA Yiddish and Slavic folktale is the Clay Boy, which combines elements of the Golem and \"The Gingerbread Man\", in which a lonely couple makes a child out of clay, with disastrous or comical consequences. In one common Russian version, an older couple, whose children have left home, makes a boy out of clay and dries him by their hearth. The Clay Boy comes to life; at first the couple is delighted and treats him like a real child, but the Clay Boy does not stop growing and eats all their food, then all their livestock, and then the Clay Boy eats his parents. The Clay Boy rampages through the village until he is smashed by a quick-thinking goat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "614411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614411", "title": "High Times", "text": "High Times\n\nHigh Times is a monthly magazine and cannabis brand with offices in Los Angeles and New York City. The magazine was founded in 1974 by Tom Forçade and the publication advocates the legalization of cannabis. The magazine has been involved in the marijuana-using counterculture since its inception.\n\nThe magazine was founded in 1974 by Tom Forçade of the Underground Press Syndicate. \"High Times\" was originally meant to be a joke: a single-issue lampoon of \"Playboy\", substituting weed for sex. The magazine was at the beginning funded by drug money from the sale of illegal marijuana. But the magazine found an audience, and in November 2009, celebrated its 35th anniversary. Like \"Playboy\", each issue contains a centerfold photo; however, instead of a nude woman, \"High Times\" typically features a cannabis plant.\n\nThe magazine soon became a monthly publication with a growing circulation, audited by ABC as reaching 500,000 copies an issue, rivaling \"Rolling Stone\" and \"National Lampoon\". In 2014, its website was read by 500,000 to 5 million users each month. The staff quickly grew to 40 people. In addition to high-quality photography, \"High Times\" featured cutting-edge journalism covering a wide range of topics, including politics, activism, drugs, sex, music and film. Tom Forçade was quoted as saying \"Those cavemen must've been stoned, no pun intended.\" Tom Forçade’s previous attempts to reach a wide counterculture audience by creating a network of underground papers (UPS & APS) had failed, even though he had the support of several noteworthy writers, photographers and artists. Yet, through \"High Times\", Forçade was able to get his message to the masses without relying on mainstream media.\n\nIn January 2017, the magazine announced it would be relocated to an office in Los Angeles permanently. This followed the legalization of marijuana in several west coasts states including California.\n\n\"High Times\" acquired cannabis media company \"Green Rush Daily\" Inc. on April 05, 2018. The deal was valued at $6.9 million. \"Green Rush Daily\" founder Scott McGovern joined the magazine as Senior Executive Vice President.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3828846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828846", "title": "ILT", "text": "ILT\n\nIn the US, the acronym ILT typically stands for Instructor-led training and is commonly used to distinguish training delivered by a live instructor from self-paced, pre-recorded content such as e-learning\n\nIn the UK, the acronym can also mean Information and Learning Technology where it is typically used within the British Further Education sector.\n\nInformation and Learning Technology describes the methods of using technology to enhance the learning experience within education.\n\n"}
{"id": "10260905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10260905", "title": "I (pronoun)", "text": "I (pronoun)\n\nThe pronoun I is the first-person singular nominative case personal pronoun in Modern English. It is used to refer to one's self and is capitalized, although other pronouns, such as \"he\" or \"she\", are not capitalized.\n\nThe grammatical variants of \"I\" are \"me\", \"my\", \"mine\", and \"myself\".\n\nEnglish \"I\" originates from Old English (OE) \"ic\". Its predecessor \"ic\" had in turn originated from the continuation of Proto-Germanic *\"ik\", and \"ek\"; the asterisk denotes an unattested form, \"ek\" was attested in the Elder Futhark inscriptions (in some cases notably showing the variant \"eka\"; see also ek erilaz). Linguists assume \"ik\" to have developed from the unstressed variant of \"ek\". Variants of \"ic\" were used in various English dialects up until the 1600s.\n\nGermanic cognates are: Old Frisian \"ik\", Old Norse \"ek\" (Danish, Norwegian \"jeg\", Swedish \"jag\", Icelandic ég), Old High German \"ih\" (German \"ich\") and Gothic \"ik\" and in Dutch also \"ik\".\n\nThe Proto-Germanic root came, in turn, from the Proto Indo-European language (PIE). The reconstructed PIE pronoun is *\"egō, egóm\", with cognates including\nSanskrit \"aham\", Hittite \"uk\", Latin \"ego\", Greek \"egō\", Old Slavonic \"azъ\" and Alviri-Vidari (an Iranian language) \"az\".\n\nThe oblique forms are formed from a stem \"*me-\" (English \"me\"), the plural from \"*wei-\" (English \"we\"), the oblique plurals from \"*ns-\" (English \"us\") and from Proto-Germanic \"*unseraz\", PIE \"*no-s-ero-\" (\"our, ours\").\n\n\"I\" (and only this form of the pronoun) is the only pronoun that is always capitalized in English. This practice became established in the late 15th century, though lowercase \"i\" was sometimes found as late as the 17th century.\n\nLike the other English personal pronouns \"we\" (\"us\"), \"he\" (\"him\"), \"she\" (\"her\"), and \"they\" (\"them\"), the pronoun \"I\" has several singular case forms.\nThese are: \n\nThere are some situations in which only the nominative form (\"I\") is grammatically correct and others in which only the accusative form (\"me\") is correct. There are also situations in which one form is used in informal style (and was often considered ungrammatical by older prescriptive grammars) and the other form is preferred in formal style.\n\nIn all varieties of standard English, the nominative form \"I\" is used exclusively when it is the whole subject of an \"explicit\" verb, e.g. \nnot \nWith other pronouns, such as \"we\" (strictly speaking when used as a personal determiner), there may be exceptions to this in some varieties of English.\n\nIn all varieties of standard English, the accusative form \"me\" is used exclusively when it is the whole direct or indirect object of a verb or preposition. The accusative \"me\" is also required in a number of constructions such as \"Silly me!\"\n\nIn many situations, both the nominative \"I\" and the accusative \"me\" are encountered.\n\nWhen the pronoun is used as a subjective predicative complement, the nominative \"I\" is sometimes encountered in (very) formal style:\nBut this is often seen as hypercorrect and may be unacceptable, as in:\n\"Me\" is usually preferred as a subjective predicate, especially in informal style:\nThe nominative \"I\" is more common in this role when it is followed by a relative clause:\nthough even here \"me\" is more common in non-formal style:\n\nFollowing \"as\" or \"than\" (without a following explicit verb), the accusative form is common:\nHowever, where it is possible to think of the pronoun as the subject of an implicit verb and \"than\" or \"as\" as a conjunction, the nominative \"I\" is found in formal style:\n\nIn Australian English, British English and Irish English, many speakers have an unstressed form of \"my\" that is identical to \"me\" (see archaic and non-standard forms of English personal pronouns).\n\nThe above applies when the pronoun stands alone as the subject or object.\nIn some varieties English (particularly formal English), those rules also apply in coordinative constructions such as \"you and I\". So the correct form is \n\nIn some varieties of non-standard informal English, the accusative is sometimes used when the pronoun is part of a coordinative \"subject\" construction, as in\nThis is highly stigmatized.\n\nOn the other hand, the use of the nominative \"I\" in coordinative constructions like \"you and I\"where \"me\" would be used in a non-coordinative object is less stigmatized – and in some cases so widespread as to be considered a variety of standard English: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51916003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51916003", "title": "Indigenous Philippine Art", "text": "Indigenous Philippine Art\n\nIndigenous Philippine art is art made by the indigenous peoples of the Philippines. It includes works in raw materials such as extract from trees, fruits, and vegetables. Some of the art treasure of the Philippines is found in rock in caves, trees and woods.\n\nIn one cave, there are different carvings created by former resident tribes. They are the oldest known cave art carvings in the Philippines, dating to approximately 1000 B.C. Originally, there were 127 engravings of human and animal figures in stick form.\n"}
{"id": "39411459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39411459", "title": "Kahanism", "text": "Kahanism\n\nKahanism is an extremist Jewish ideology based on the views of Rabbi Meir Kahane, founder of the Jewish Defense League and the Kach party in Israel. Kahane maintained the view that the majority of Arabs living in Israel are enemies of Jews and Israel itself, he believed that a Jewish theocratic state, where non-Jews have no voting rights, should be created. The Kach party has been banned by the Israeli government and the U.S. State Department has labeled it a Foreign Terrorist Organization.\n\nWhile it is difficult to define \"Kahanism\" in an official manner, the term has come to denote the controversial positions espoused by Rabbi Meir Kahane. Kahane's positions spanned a broad range of subjects.\n\nThe central claim of Kahanism is the belief that the vast majority of the Arabs of Israel are now, and they will continue to be, enemies of Jews and Israel itself, and that a Jewish theocratic state, governed by Halakha, absent of a voting non-Jewish population that includes Israel, Palestine, areas of modern-day Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Iraq, should be created.\n\nAccording to Kahane, the term \"Kahanism\" is primarily used by those who are ignorant of Torah Judaism in order to discredit his ideology, which he asserted is rooted in Halakha and the same as Torah Judaism. \"Meir Kahane did not hate the Arabs – he just loved the Jews\", said his widow Libby in her November 20, 2010 TV interview.\n\nSince 1985, the Israeli government has outlawed political parties espousing Kahane's ideology as being \"racist\", and it forbids their participation in the Israeli government. The Kach party was banned from running for the Knesset in 1988, while the existence of the two Kahanist movements formed following Kahane's assassination in 1990 were proclaimed illegal terrorist organizations in 1994 and the groups were subsequently officially disbanded. Activities by followers with militant Kahanist beliefs continue to the present today, however, as seen below. In 2001, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights described the official Kahanist website, which was kahane.org at the time, as a hate site espousing prejudiced views in which 'Arabs generally and Palestinians in particular are vilified.'\n\n\nThe deadliest Jewish terrorist attack occurred when Dr. Baruch Goldstein, supporter of Kach, shot and killed 29 Muslim worshipers, and wounded another 150, at the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre in Hebron, in 1994. This was described as a case of Jewish religious terrorism by Mark Juergensmeyer.Goldstein was a medical doctor who grew up in Brooklyn and he was educated at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He resettled in the Kiryat Arba settlement in the West Bank, and he was politically active for years – he saw Rabbi Meir Kahane as a hero, and he was Kahane's campaign manager when he ran for the Israeli parliament through Kahane's Kach party. When Goldstein was threatened with a court-martial for refusing to treat non-Jewish soldiers in the Israeli Defence Force, he declared: \"I am not willing to treat any non-Jew. I recognize as legitimate only two religious authorities: Maimonides and Kahane.\"\n\nGoldstein was denounced \"with shocked horror\" by Orthodox Jews, and most Israelis denounced Goldstein as insane. Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin condemned the attack, describing Goldstein as a \"degenerate murderer\", \"a shame on Zionism and an embarrassment to Judaism\". At the same time, Goldstein's actions were praised by some extremist settlers; Yochay Ron said that he \"felt good\" when he heard the news, and he also stated that Jews were \"at war with the Arabs\" and \"all Arabs who live here are a danger to us... they threaten the very existence of the Jewish community on the West Bank.\" Goldstein and other religious settlers at Beit Hadassah (both Kahanist and Gush Emunim) believe that the biblical lands on the West Bank are sacred, that Jews are required by God to occupy them, and that the presence of Muslims desecrates the Holy Land. After this attack, members of the Kach Party praised Goldstein's actions, and in the ensuing political turmoil, the Knesset banned Kach in Israel. The Shamgar Commission in Israel concluded that Baruch Goldstein acted alone.\n\nIn October 1982 Yoel Lerner, a member of Meir Kahane's Kach, attempted to blow up the Dome of the Rock in order to rebuild the Temple Mount site. He was sentenced to two and a half years in prison. Mark Juergensmeyer identified him as a Jewish religious terrorist, writing that he \"yearned for a Jewish society in Israel. He hoped for the restoration of the ancient temple in Jerusalem, the exclusive right of Jews to settle on the West Bank of the Jordan River, and the creation of a state based on biblical law.\" Lerner had previously served a three-year sentence for heading a group that plotted to overthrow the government and establish a state based upon religious law.\n\nOn August 4, 2005, Eden Natan-Zada, an AWOL Israel Defense Forces soldier, killed four Israeli Arab citizens and wounded several others when he opened fire on a bus in the northern Israeli town of Shfaram. Natan-Zada had recently moved to the settlement of Tapuach, site of a Kahanist yeshiva. Zada was handcuffed by the Israeli police who arrived to the scene but then lynched by the mob.\n\nRoadside shootings, stabbings and grenade attacks against Palestinians have been carried out in Jerusalem and the West Bank by individuals or groups suspected of having ties to the former Kach group. Aliases such as \"The Committee for the Safety of the Roads\", \"The Sword of David\" and \"The Repression of Traitors\" have been used. The US government claims that these are all aliases of \"Kach\". In 2002, a Kahanist group known as \"Revenge of the Toddlers\" claimed responsibility for a bombing attack at Tzur Baher, an East Jerusalem secondary school for Arab boys, that wounded seven. The group also claimed responsibility for the 2003 bombing of a Palestinian school in Jaba that injured 20 and it was also thought to be linked to the 2002 Zil Elementary school bombing.\n\nIn the United States, Kahanist groups and organizations are largely inactive, and the bulk of their supporters have emigrated to Israel over the years. Kahane Net, the Jewish Defense League and B'nai Elim (formed by former JDL activists) are occasionally associated with Kahanism.\n\nJames David Manning, chief pastor of ATLAH World Missionary Church, has endorsed aspects of Kahane's ideology.\n\n"}
{"id": "140271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140271", "title": "Kardashev scale", "text": "Kardashev scale\n\nThe Kardashev scale is a method of measuring a civilization's level of technological advancement based on the amount of energy a civilization is able to use. It was proposed by Soviet astronomer Nikolai Kardashev in 1964. The scale has three designated categories:\n\n\nThe scale is hypothetical, and regards energy consumption on a cosmic scale. Various extensions of the scale have since been proposed, including a wider range of power levels (types 0, IV and V) and the use of metrics other than pure power.\n\nIn 1964, Kardashev defined three levels of civilizations, based on the order of magnitude of power available to them:\n\n\nAt the current time, Humans have not yet reached Type 1 civilization.\nPhysicist and futurist Michio Kaku suggested that humans may attain Type I status in 100–200 years, Type II status in a few thousand years, and Type III status in 100,000 to a million years.\n\nCarl Sagan suggested defining intermediate values (not considered in Kardashev's original scale) by interpolating and extrapolating the values given above for types I (10 W), II (10 W) and III (10 W), which would produce the formula\n\nwhere value \"K\" is a civilization's Kardashev rating and \"P\" is the power it uses, in watts. Using this extrapolation, a \"Type 0\" civilization, not defined by Kardashev, would control about 1 MW of power, and humanity's civilization type as of 1973 was about 0.7 (apparently using 10 terawatt (TW) as the value for 1970s humanity).\n\nIn 2012, total world energy consumption was 553 exajoules (=153,611 TWh), equivalent to an average power consumption of 17.54 TW (or 0.7244 on Sagan's Kardashev scale).\n\nIn 2015, a study of galactic mid-infrared emissions came to the conclusion that \"Kardashev Type-III civilizations are either very rare or do not exist in the local Universe\". \n\nOn October 14, 2015, the detection of an unusual light curve for star KIC 8462852 raised speculation that a Dyson Sphere (Type II civilization) may have been discovered. The SETI Institute's initial radio reconnaissance of KIC 8462852, however, found no evidence of technology-related radio signals from the star.\n\nIn 2016, Paul Glister, author of the Centauri Dreams website, described a signal apparently from the star HD 164595 as requiring the power of a Type I or Type II civilization, if produced by extraterrestrial lifeform. However, in August 2016 it was discovered that the signal's origin was most likely a military satellite orbiting the Earth.\n\n\n\n\nThere are many historical examples of human civilization undergoing large-scale transitions, such as the Industrial Revolution. The transition between Kardashev scale levels could potentially represent similarly dramatic periods of social upheaval, since they entail surpassing the hard limits of the resources available in a civilization's existing territory. A common speculation suggests that the transition from Type 0 to Type I might carry a strong risk of self-destruction since, in some scenarios, there would no longer be room for further expansion on the civilization's home planet, as in a Malthusian catastrophe. Excessive use of energy without adequate disposal of heat, for example, could plausibly make the planet of a civilization approaching Type I unsuitable to the biology of the dominant life-forms and their food sources. If Earth is an example, then sea temperatures in excess of would jeopardize marine life and make the cooling of mammals to temperatures suitable for their metabolism difficult if not impossible. Of course, these theoretical speculations may not become problems possibly through the applications of future engineering and technology. Also, by the time a civilization reaches Type I it may have colonized other planets or created O'Neill-type colonies, so that waste heat could be distributed throughout the planetary system.\n\nMany extensions and modifications to the Kardashev scale have been proposed.\n\n\nIt has been argued that, because we cannot understand advanced civilizations, we cannot predict their behavior. Thus, the Kardashev scale may not be relevant or useful for classifying extraterrestrial civilizations. This central argument is found in the book \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9840408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9840408", "title": "Klasies River Caves", "text": "Klasies River Caves\n\nThe Klasies River Caves are a series of caves located to the east of the Klasies River mouth on the Tsitsikamma coast in the Humansdorp district of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. The three main caves and two shelters at the base of a high cliff have revealed evidence of middle stone age-associated human habitation from approximately 125,000 years ago. The thick deposits were accumulated from 125,000 years ago. Around 75,000 years ago, during cave remodelling, the stratigraphic sediments were moved out into external middens.\n\nIn 2015, the South African government submitted a proposal to add the caves to the list of World Heritage Sites.\n\nFrom 1960, Ronald Singer, Ray Inskeep, John Wymer, Hilary Deacon, Richard Klein and others suggested the excavation yielded the earliest known evidence of behaviourally modern humans. \nFurther analysis suggested that the specimens fall \"outside the range of modern variation\".\n\nAnalysis of 14 proximal ulnar dimensions compared to morphological properties of African archaic humans, and Levantine Mousterian, archaic European humans, west Asian and, European Upper Paleolithic, African Epipaleolithic and recent modern human also of recent African descent suggest an archaic total morphological pattern for the KRM specimens. \"MSA-associated humans from KRM may not be as modern as has been claimed from the craniofacial material\"\n\nThe hominin specimens include cranial fragments, mandibles with teeth, and a few postcranial remains: ulna and five metatarsal bones.\n\nThere is a thick accumulation of deposits, both inside the caves and outside against the cliff face, proving that Klasies River Mouth people knew how to hunt small game, fish (later), gather plants and roots, cook by roasting on hearths, and manage their land (later). \nThere is extensive evidence of shellfish collecting; MSA stone artefact technology; gathering plants, roots and flowers for food; cooking plants, corms, seal, penguins, and antelope meat on hearths with fire; general organisation of the settlement; and land/veld management by fire. \n\nThe evidence also appears to indicate that their presence was seasonal or migratory. There is also evidence of cannibalism, charred and carved 'modern human' bones discarded with other food remnants.\n\nWhile Middle Stone Age (MSA) assemblage associated with those people are described as \"anatomically modern\", there is ongoing debate about when they were also \"behaviourally modern\". There is a marked difference between the Paleolithic stone technology used in the earliest layers from 125,000 years ago, and the superior MST blades of the 70,000-year-old Howiesons Poort period that used raw material which had been 'mined' 20 kilometres inland. \nThere is also a differentiation between the Paleolithic food detritus that accumulated underfoot inside the caves 125,000 years ago and the ejection of such detritus from the cave into external middens by the occupants of ca. 75,000 years ago, suggesting the development of rudimentary \"houskeeping\" by that time.\n\nThe artifacts and bones were originally reported by Paul Haslem and Ludwig Abel, then in 1960 Ray Inskeep and Ronald Singer identified the artifacts as Middle Stone Age. In 1967 and 1968 Ronald Singer and John Wymer started extensive excavations, with their initial findings published in 1972 by the University of Chicago Press. Since 1984 research has been continued by Hilary Deacon.\n\nThe site is now protected by the South African Heritage Resources Agency (SAHRA), and the Department of Environment Affairs and Tourism.\n\nThe five caves are dotted eastwards along the coast within 2 kilometres of Klasies River mouth, and the complete stretch to Druipkelder Point is designated as a National heritage site.\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "492759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492759", "title": "Late termination of pregnancy", "text": "Late termination of pregnancy\n\nLate termination of pregnancy (TOP), also known as postviability abortion, induced termination of pregnancy (ITOP), or simply abortion is a termination of pregnancy that is performed during a later stage of pregnancy. Late termination of pregnancy is more controversial than abortion in general because it results in the death of a fetus that is more developed and sometimes able to survive independently. Given the complex, gradual nature of human fetal development, the definition of \"late\" in this context is not precise, and different medical publications have discussed the varying gestational age points that can be involved.\n\nA late termination of pregnancy often refers to an induced ending of pregnancy after the 20th week of gestation. The exact point when a pregnancy becomes late-term, however, is not clearly defined. Some sources define an abortion after 16 weeks as \"late\". Three articles published in 1998 in the same issue of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" could not agree on the definition. Two of the \"JAMA\" articles chose the 20th week of gestation to be the point where an abortion procedure would be considered late-term. The third \"JAMA\" article chose the third trimester, or 27th week of gestation.\n\nThe point at which an abortion becomes late-term is often related to the \"viability\" (ability to survive outside the uterus) of the fetus. Sometimes late-term abortions are referred to as post-viability abortions.\n\nWhile a single first-trimester abortion carried no more mental health risk than carrying a pregnancy to term, abortion could not be proven safe in other cases as far as mental health was concerned. Women who terminate a pregnancy because of abnormalities discovered through fetal screenings have a similar risk of negative mental health outcomes as women who miscarry a wanted pregnancy or experience a stillbirth or the death of a newborn. However, \"the differing patterns of psychological experiences observed among women who terminate an unplanned pregnancy versus those who terminate a planned and wanted pregnancy highlight the importance of taking pregnancy intendedness and wantedness into account when seeking to understand psychological reactions to abortion.\"\n\n\nA study from 2013 found that most women seeking late-term abortion \"fit at least one of five profiles: They were raising children alone, were depressed or using illicit substances, were in conflict with a male partner or experiencing domestic violence, had trouble deciding and then had access problems, or were young and nulliparous.\" The study data did not include any women who were having abortions \"on grounds of fetal anomaly or life endangerment.\" The researchers concluded that \"Bans on abortion after 20 weeks will disproportionately affect young women and women with limited financial resources.\"\n\nFor an earlier study published in 1987, the Alan Guttmacher Institute collected questionnaires from 1,900 women in the United States who came to clinics to have abortions. Of the 1,900 questioned, 420 had been pregnant for 16 or more weeks. These 420 women were asked to choose among a list of reasons they had not obtained the abortions earlier in their pregnancies. The results were as follows:\n\nThe NHS records the reasons given for abortions at all stages of development. In 2015, 2,877 abortions were performed at 20 weeks or above. Of these, 23 (0.8%) were performed to save the life of the pregnant woman, 1,801 (63%) were performed for mental or physical health reasons, and 1046 (36%) were performed because of foetal abnormalities. (The data do not sum up to 100% because multiple reasons could be recorded for each abortion.)\n\nAs of 1998, among the 152 most populous countries, 54 either banned abortion entirely or permitted it only to save the life of the pregnant woman.\n\nIn addition, 49 of the 152 most populous countries were without restriction as to reason, but 44 of these imposed limits after a particular gestational age:\n\n\nIn these countries, abortions after the general gestational age limit are allowed only under restricted circumstances, which include, depending on country, risk to the woman's life, physical or mental health, fetal malformation, cases where the pregnancy was the result of rape, or poor socio-economic conditions. For instance, in Italy, abortion is allowed on request up until 90 days, after which it is allowed only if the pregnancy or childbirth pose a threat to the woman’s life, a risk to physical health of the woman, a risk to mental health of the woman; if there is a risk of fetal malformation; or if the pregnancy is the result of rape or other sexual crime. Denmark provides a wider range of reasons, including social and economic ones, which can be invoked by a woman who seeks an abortion after 12 weeks. Abortions at such stages must in general be approved by a doctor or a special committee, unlike early abortions which are performed on demand. The ease with which the doctor or the committee allows a late term abortion varies significantly by country, and is often influenced by the social and religious views prevalent in that region.\n\nSome countries, like Canada, China (Mainland only) and Vietnam have no legal limit on when an abortion can be performed.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court decisions on abortion, including \"Roe v. Wade\", allow states to impose more restrictions on post-viability abortions than during the earlier stages of pregnancy.\n\nAs of December 2014, forty-two states had bans on late-term abortions that were not facially unconstitutional under \"Roe v. Wade\" or enjoined by court order. In addition, the Supreme Court in the case of \"Gonzales v. Carhart\" ruled that Congress may ban certain late-term abortion techniques, \"both previability and postviability\", as it had done in banning intact dilation and extraction with the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003.\n\nThe Supreme Court has held that bans must include exceptions for threats to the woman's life, physical health, and mental health, but four states allow late-term abortions only when the woman's life is at risk; four allow them when the woman's life or physical health is at risk, but use a definition of health that pro-choice organizations believe is impermissibly narrow. Note that just because a portion of a state's law is found to be unconstitutional does not mean that the entire law will be deemed unconstitutional: \"[I]nvalidating the statute entirely is not always necessary or justified, for lower courts may be able to render narrower declaratory and injunctive relief,\" meaning the court could declare that only those parts of the law that are violative of the Constitution are invalid (declaratory relief), or that the court can prohibit the state from enforcing those portions of the law (injunctive relief).\n\nEighteen states prohibit abortion after a certain number of weeks' gestation (usually 22 weeks from the last menstrual period). The U.S. Supreme Court held in \"Webster v. Reproductive Health Services\" that a statute may create \"a presumption of viability\" after a certain number of weeks, in which case the physician must be given an opportunity to rebut the presumption by performing tests. Because this provision is not explicitly written into these state laws, as it was in the Missouri law examined in \"Webster\", pro-choice organizations believe that such a state law is unconstitutional, but only \"to the extent that it prohibits pre-viability abortions\".\n\nTen states (although Florida's enforcement of such laws are under permanent injunction) require a second physician's approval before a late-term abortion can be performed. The U.S. Supreme Court struck down a requirement of \"confirmation by two other physicians\" (rather than one other physician) because \"acquiescence by co-practitioners has no rational connection with a patient's needs and unduly infringes on the physician's right to practice\". Pro-choice organizations, such as the Guttmacher Institute, posit that some of these state laws are unconstitutional, based on these and other Supreme Court rulings, at least to the extent that these state laws require approval of a second or third physician.\n\nThirteen states have laws that require a second physician to be present during late-term abortion procedures in order to treat a fetus if born alive. The Court has held that a doctor's right to practice is not infringed by requiring a second physician to be present at abortions performed after viability in order to assist in the case of a living fetus.\n\nThere are at least four medical procedures associated with late-term abortions:\n\nThere is no sharp limit of development, age, or weight at which humans automatically become viable. According to studies between 2003 and 2005, 20 to 35 percent of babies born at 23 weeks of gestation survive, while 50 to 70 percent of babies born at 24 to 25 weeks, and more than 90 percent born at 26 to 27 weeks, survive. It is rare for a baby weighing less than 500 g (17.6 ounces) to survive. A baby's chances for survival increases 3-4% per day between 23 and 24 weeks of gestation and about 2-3% per day between 24 and 26 weeks of gestation. After 26 weeks the rate of survival increases at a much slower rate because survival is high already.\nDue to the risk of viability—and the corresponding legal implications that can come with a live birth—most experts recommend induced fetal demise, also referred to as feticide, for abortions after 18 to 20 weeks gestation. The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstericss states that abortions \"after 22 weeks [gestation] must be preceded by feticide.\" If medical staff observe signs of life, they may be required to provide care: emergency medical care if the child has a good chance of survival and palliative care if not.\n\n"}
{"id": "29644522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29644522", "title": "List of linguistic rights in European constitutions", "text": "List of linguistic rights in European constitutions\n\nLinguistic rights in Europe are stated in constitutions which differ by country. These constitutions usually state the national language or official language, and may or may not explicitly allow for other languages in the country. Most of the linguistic rights stated here are negative rights, which grant freedom of usage of own language and prevents discrimination based on language. Some countries do offer positive rights: for example provision of language education from State funds in Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Hungary, Moldova, Portugal, Romania, Turkey, and Ukraine.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 4 August 1998.<ref name=\"UNESCO 7/10/10\"> Linguistic Rights - National Constitutions, \"UNESCO MOST\", accessed October 7, 2010</ref>\n\nConstitution of Andorra as adopted on 28 April 1993.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 5 July 1995.\n\nConstitution as adopted in 1929.\n\nAustrian State Treaty, signed in 1955 and included in the Constitution\n\nConstitution as of 12 November 1995.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 15 March 1994.\n\nConstitution of 7 February 1831, revised to 17 February 1994.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 1 December 1995.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 12 July 1991.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 22 December 1990.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 6 August 1960.\n\nNeither the Czech Constitution nor the Charter name any official language of the country. Administrative code and Rules of Court Procedure, however, specify Czech language as the language of procedure of public administration and courts respectively. Specific linguistic rights are included in the following Articles of the Charter:\n\nSpecial enactments deal with the aforementioned constitutional rights of minorities. Special treatment is afforded to Slovak language, which may be the language of administrative and other procedure according to a number of specific laws. According to the Act on Rights of Members of Minorities, citizens belonging to minorities, which traditionally and on long-term basis live within the territory of the Czech Republic, enjoy the right to use their language in communication with authorities and in front of the courts of law. Other than Slovak, the languages of officially recognized minorities in the Czech Republic are Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Greek, Hungarian, Polish, Romani, Russian, Rusyn, Serbian and Ukrainian. These are indirectly under constitutional protection of the Charter's Article 25 via the Act on Rights of Minorities and official Government recognition. Unlike in many other European countries, the minorities' linguistic rights are not regionally restricted and may be enjoyed within the territory of the whole country. Among minorities which are as of 2012 seeking the same status are the Vietnamese and the Belorussian.\n\nNational or official languages: Danish, Standard German (regional), Faroese (regional), Greenlandic (regional)\n\nConstitution as adopted on 28 June 1992.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 17 July 1919.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 4 October 1958, and modified up to 25 June 1992.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 24 August 1995.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 23 May 1949 and amended up to 1995.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 11 June 1975.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 20 August 1949, updated to 1996.\n\nDoes not have constitutions or constitutional provisions related to linguistic rights.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 1 July 1937.<ref name=\"UNESCO 8/10/10\"> Linguistic Rights - National Constitutions, \"UNESCO MOST\", accessed October 8, 2010</ref>\n\nConstitution as adopted on 22 December 1947.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Latvia was adopted by the Constitutional Assembly of Latvia on 15 February 1922 and it was last amended on 30 April 2002.\n\nIn addition the State Language Law provides further protection to Livonian language and Latgalian literary tradition and regards all other languages as a foreign. The law was adopted in December 1999 and entered into force on the 1st of September 2000.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 6 October 1921.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 25 October 1992.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 17 October 1868.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 17 November 1991.\n\nConstitution as adopted in 1964.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 29 July 1994.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 24 December 1922.\n\nMontenegrin became the official language of Montenegro with the ratification of a new constitution on 22 October 2007 Next to it, Serbian, Bosnian, Albanian and Croatian are recognized in usage.\n\nNational or official languages: Dutch, Achterhoeks, Drents, Western Frisian, Gronings, Limburgisch, Sinte Romani, Vlax Romani, Sallands, Stellingwerfs, Twents, Veluws, Western Yiddish.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 17 May 1814.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 2 April 1997.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 2 April 1976.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 8 December 1991.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 12 December 1993.\n\nDoes not have constitutions or constitutional provisions related to linguistic rights.\n\nThe official and national language is Serbian.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 3 September 1992.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 23 December 1991.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 29 December 1978.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 1 January 1975.\n\nNational or official languages: French, Standard German, Italian, Romansch.\n\nConstitution of 1982 as amended 17 October 2001.\n\nConstitution as adopted on 28 June 1996.\n\nNational or official languages: English, Welsh, French (regional).\n\nNational or official language: Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1480420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480420", "title": "Metacognition", "text": "Metacognition\n\nMetacognition is \"cognition about cognition\", \"thinking about thinking\", \"knowing about knowing\", becoming \"aware of one's awareness\" and higher-order thinking skills. The term comes from the root word \"meta\", meaning \"beyond\". Metacognition can take many forms; it includes knowledge about when and how to use particular strategies for learning or problem-solving. There are generally two components of metacognition: (1) knowledge about cognition and (2) regulation of cognition.\n\nMetamemory, defined as knowing about memory and mnemonic strategies, is an especially important form of metacognition. Academic research on metacognitive processing across cultures is in the early stages, but there are indications that further work may provide better outcomes in cross-cultural learning between teachers and students.\n\nSome evolutionary psychologists hypothesize that humans use metacognition as a survival tool, which would make metacognition the same across cultures. Writings on metacognition date back at least as far as two works by the Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 BC): \"On the Soul\" and the \"Parva Naturalia\".\n\nThis higher-level cognition was given the label metacognition by American developmental psychologist John H. Flavell (1976).\n\nThe term metacognition literally means 'beyond cognition', and is used to indicate cognition about cognition, or more informally, thinking about thinking. Flavell defined metacognition as knowledge about cognition and control of cognition. For example, a person is engaging in metacognition if he notices that he is having more trouble learning A than B, or if it strikes him that he should double-check C before accepting it as fact. J. H. Flavell (1976, p. 232). Andreas Demetriou's theory (one of the neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development) used the term hypercognition to refer to self-monitoring, self-representation, and self-regulation processes, which are regarded as integral components of the human mind. Moreover, with his colleagues, he showed that these processes participate in general intelligence, together with processing efficiency and reasoning, which have traditionally been considered to compose fluid intelligence.\n\nMetacognition also involves thinking about one's own thinking process such as study skills, memory capabilities, and the ability to monitor learning. This concept needs to be explicitly taught along with content instruction.\nMetacognitive knowledge is about one's own cognitive processes and the understanding of how to regulate those processes to maximize learning.\n\nSome types of metacognitive knowledge would include:\nMetacognition is a general term encompassing the study of memory-monitoring and self-regulation, meta-reasoning, consciousness/awareness and auto-consciousness/self-awareness. In practice these capacities are used to regulate one's own cognition, to maximize one's potential to think, learn and to the evaluation of proper ethical/moral rules. It can also lead to a reduction in response time for a given situation as a result of heightened awareness, and potentially reduce the time to complete problems or tasks.\n\nIn the domain of experimental psychology, an influential distinction in metacognition (proposed by T. O. Nelson & L. Narens) is between Monitoring—making judgments about the strength of one's memories—and Control—using those judgments to guide behavior (in particular, to guide study choices). Dunlosky, Serra, and Baker (2007) covered this distinction in a review of metamemory research that focused on how findings from this domain can be applied to other areas of applied research.\n\nIn the domain of cognitive neuroscience, metacognitive monitoring and control has been viewed as a function of the prefrontal cortex, which receives (monitors) sensory signals from other cortical regions and implements control using feedback loops(see chapters by Schwartz & Bacon and Shimamura, in Dunlosky & Bjork, 2008).\n\nMetacognition is studied in the domain of artificial intelligence and modelling. Therefore, it is the domain of interest of emergent systemics.\n\nIt has been used, albeit off the original definition, to describe one's own knowledge that we will die. Writers in the 1990s involved with the grunge music scene often used the term to describe self-awareness of mortality.\n\nMetacognition is classified into three components:\n\n\nMetacognition refers to a level of thinking that involves active control over the process of thinking that is used in learning situations. Planning the way to approach a learning task, monitoring comprehension, and evaluating the progress towards the completion of a task: these are skills that are metacognitive in their nature.\n\nMetacognition includes at least three different types of metacognitive awareness when considering metacognitive knowledge: \n\nSimilar to metacognitive knowledge, metacognitive regulation or \"regulation of cognition\" contains three skills that are essential. \n\nSimilarly, maintaining motivation to see a task to completion is also a metacognitive skill. The ability to become aware of distracting stimuli – both internal and external – and sustain effort over time also involves metacognitive or executive functions. The theory that metacognition has a critical role to play in successful learning means it is important that it be demonstrated by both students and teachers.\n\nStudents who demonstrate a wide range of metacognitive skills perform better on exams and complete work more efficiently. They are self-regulated learners who utilize the \"right tool for the job\" and modify learning strategies and skills based on their awareness of effectiveness. Individuals with a high level of metacognitive knowledge and skill identify blocks to learning as early as possible and change \"tools\" or strategies to ensure goal attainment. Swanson (1990) found that metacognitive knowledge can compensate for IQ and lack of prior knowledge when comparing fifth and sixth grade students' problem solving. Students with a high-metacognition were reported to have used fewer strategies, but solved problems more effectively than low-metacognition students, regardless of IQ or prior knowledge. In one study examining students who send text messages during college lectures, it was suggested that students with higher metacognitive abilities were less likely than other students to have their learning affected by using a mobile phone in class.\nMetacognologists are aware of their own strengths and weaknesses, the nature of the task at hand, and available \"tools\" or skills. A broader repertoire of \"tools\" also assists in goal attainment. When \"tools\" are general, generic, and context independent, they are more likely to be useful in different types of learning situations.\n\nAnother distinction in metacognition is executive management and strategic knowledge. Executive management processes involve planning, monitoring, evaluating and revising one's own thinking processes and products. Strategic knowledge involves knowing \"what\" (factual or declarative knowledge), knowing \"when and why\" (conditional or contextual knowledge) and knowing \"how\" (procedural or methodological knowledge). Both executive management and strategic knowledge metacognition are needed to self-regulate one's own thinking and learning.\n\nFinally, there is no distinction between domain-general and domain-specific metacognitive skills. This means that metacognitive skills are domain-general in nature and there are no specific skills for certain subject areas. The metacognitive skills that are used to review an essay are the same as those that are used to verify an answer to a math question.\n\nAlthough metacognition has thus far been discussed in relation to the self, recent research in the field has suggested that this view is overly restrictive. Instead, it is argued that metacognition research should also include beliefs about others’ mental processes, the influence of culture on those beliefs, and on beliefs about ourselves. This “expansionist view” proposes that it is impossible to fully understand metacognition without considering the situational norms and cultural expectations that influence those same conceptions. This combination of social psychology and metacognition is referred to as social metacognition. \n\nSocial metacognition can include ideas and perceptions that relate to social cognition. Additionally, social metacognition can include judging the cognition of others, such as judging the perceptions and emotional states of others. This is in part because the process of judging others is similar to judging the self. However, individuals have less information about the people they are judging; therefore, judging others tend to be more inaccurate. Having similar cognitions can buffer against this inaccuracy and can be helpful for teams or organizations, as well as interpersonal relationships.\n\nThe self concept plays an important part in how people think about and act in their social worlds. Metacognitions can be divided into first order and second order thoughts. First order thoughts are the person’s first appraisal of a given thought (I am smart), while second order thoughts are their reflections about their certainty of that appraisal (I am not really sure how smart I am). These secondary cognitions are subject to the influence of culture and situational norms, and thus influence the strength of our self-convictions.\n\nAn example of the interaction between social metacognition and self-concept can be found in examining implicit theories about the self. Implicit theories can cover a wide-range of constructs about how the self operates, but two are especially relevant here; entity theory and incrementalist theory. Entity theory proposes that an individual’s self-attributes and abilities are fixed and stable, while incrementalist theory proposes that these same constructs can be changed through effort and experience. Entity theorists are susceptible to learned helplessness because they may feel that circumstances are outside their control (i.e. there’s nothing that could have been done to make things better), thus they may give up easily. Incremental theorists react differently when faced with failure: they desire to master challenges, and therefore adopt a mastery-oriented pattern.  They immediately began to consider various ways that they could approach the task differently, and they increase their efforts. Cultural beliefs can act on this as well. For example, a person who has accepted a cultural belief that memory loss is an unavoidable consequence of old age may avoid cognitively demanding tasks as they age, thus accelerating cognitive decline. Similarly, a female who is aware of the stereotype that purports that females are not good at mathematics may perform worse on tests of mathematical ability or avoid mathematics altogether. These examples demonstrate that the metacognitive beliefs people hold about the self - which may be socially or culturally transmitted - can have important effects on persistence, performance, and motivation.\n\nThe way that individuals think about attitude greatly affects the way that they behave. Metacognitions about attitudes influence how individuals act, and especially how they interact with others.\n\nSome metacognitive characteristics of attitudes include importance, certainty, and perceived knowledge, and they influence behavior in different ways. Attitude importance is the strongest predictor of behavior and can predict information seeking behaviors in individuals. Attitude importance is also more likely to influence behavior than certainty of the attitude. When considering a social behavior like voting a person may hold high importance but low certainty. This means that they will likely vote, even if they are unsure who to vote for. Meanwhile, a person who is very certain of who they want to vote for, may not actually vote if it is of low importance to them. This also applies to interpersonal relationships. A person might hold a lot of favorable knowledge about their family, but they may not maintain close relations with their family if it is of low importance.\n\nMetacognitive characteristics of attitudes may be key to understanding how attitudes change. Research shows that the frequency of positive or negative thoughts is the biggest factor in attitude change. A person may believe that climate change is occurring but have negative thoughts toward it such as “If I accept the responsibilities of climate change, I must change my lifestyle.” These individuals would not likely change their behavior compared to someone that thinks positively about the same issue such as “By using less electricity, I will be helping the planet.”\n\nAnother way to increase the likelihood of behavior change is by influencing the source of the attitude. An individual’s personal thoughts and ideas have a much greater impact on the attitude compared ideas of others. Therefore, when people view lifestyle changes as coming from themselves, the effects are more powerful than if the changes were coming from a friend or family member. These thoughts can be re-framed that emphasizes personal importance, such as “I want to stop smoking because it is important to me” rather than “quitting smoking is important to my family”. More research needs to be conducted on culture differences and importance of group ideology, which may alter these results.\n\nPeople have secondary cognitions about the appropriateness, justifiability, and social judgability of their own stereotypic beliefs. People know that it is typically unacceptable to make stereotypical judgments and make conscious efforts not to do so. Subtle social cues can influence these conscious efforts. For example, when given a false sense of confidence about their ability to judge others, people will return to relying on social stereotypes. Cultural backgrounds influence social metacognitive assumptions, including stereotypes. For example, cultures without the stereotype that memory declines with old age display no age differences in memory performance.\n\nWhen it comes to making judgments about other people, implicit theories about the stability versus malleability of human characteristics predict differences in social stereotyping as well. Holding an entity theory of traits increases the tendency for people to see similarity among group members and utilize stereotyped judgments. For example, compared to those holding incremental beliefs, people who hold entity beliefs of traits use more stereotypical trait judgments of ethnic and occupational groups as well as form more extreme trait judgments of new groups. When individual’s assumptions about a group combine with their implicit theories, more stereotypical judgments may be form. Stereotypes that one believes others hold about them are called metastereotypes.\n\nMetacognologists believe that the ability to consciously think about thinking is unique to sapient species and indeed is one of the definitions of sapience. There is evidence that rhesus monkeys, apes, and dolphins can make accurate judgments about the strengths of their memories of fact and monitor their own uncertainty, while attempts to demonstrate metacognition in birds have been inconclusive. A 2007 study has provided some evidence for metacognition in rats, but further analysis suggested that they may have been following simple operant conditioning principles, or a behavioral economic model.\n\nMetacognitive-like processes are especially ubiquitous when it comes to the discussion of self-regulated learning. Being engaged in metacognition is a salient feature of good self-regulated learners. Reinforcing collective discussion of metacognition is a salient feature of self-critical and self-regulating social groups. The activities of strategy selection and application include those concerned with an ongoing attempt to plan, check, monitor, select, revise, evaluate, etc.\n\nMetacognition is 'stable' in that learners' initial decisions derive from the pertinent facts about their cognition through years of learning experience. Simultaneously, it is also 'situated' in the sense that it depends on learners' familiarity with the task, motivation, emotion, and so forth. Individuals need to regulate their thoughts about the strategy they are using and adjust it based on the situation to which the strategy is being applied. At a professional level, this has led to emphasis on the development of reflective practice, particularly in the education and health-care professions.\n\nRecently, the notion has been applied to the study of second language learners in the field of TESOL and applied linguistics in general (e.g., Wenden, 1987; Zhang, 2001, 2010). This new development has been much related to Flavell (1979), where the notion of metacognition is elaborated within a tripartite theoretical framework. Learner metacognition is defined and investigated by examining their person knowledge, task knowledge and strategy knowledge.\n\nWenden (1991) has proposed and used this framework and Zhang (2001) has adopted this approach and investigated second language learners' metacognition or metacognitive knowledge. In addition to exploring the relationships between learner metacognition and performance, researchers are also interested in the effects of metacognitively-oriented strategic instruction on reading comprehension (e.g., Garner, 1994, in first language contexts, and Chamot, 2005; Zhang, 2010). The efforts are aimed at developing learner autonomy, interdependence and self-regulation.\n\nMetacognition helps people to perform many cognitive tasks more effectively. Strategies for promoting metacognition include self-questioning (e.g. \"What do I already know about this topic? How have I solved problems like this before?\"), thinking aloud while performing a task, and making graphic representations (e.g. concept maps, flow charts, semantic webs) of one's thoughts and knowledge. Carr, 2002, argues that the physical act of writing plays a large part in the development of metacognitive skills.\n\nStrategy Evaluation matrices (SEM) can help to improve the \"knowledge of cognition\" component of metacognition. The SEM works by identifying the declarative (Column 1), procedural (Column 2) and conditional (Column 3 and 4) knowledge about specific strategies. The SEM can help individuals identify the strength and weaknesses about certain strategies as well as introduce them to new strategies that they can add to their repertoire.\n\nA regulation checklist (RC) is a useful strategy for improving the regulation of cognition aspect of one's metacognition. RCs help individuals to implement a sequence of thoughts that allow them to go over their own metacognition. King (1991) found that fifth-grade students who used a regulation checklist outperformed control students when looking at a variety of questions including written problem solving, asking strategic questions, and elaborating information.\n\nExamples of strategies that can be taught to students are word analysis skills, active reading strategies, listening skills, organizational skills and creating mnemonic devices.\n\nWalker and Walker have developed a model of metacognition in school learning termed Steering Cognition. Steering Cognition describes the capacity of the mind to exert conscious control over its reasoning and processing strategies in relation to the external learning task. Studies have shown that pupils with an ability to exert metacognitive regulation over their attentional and reasoning strategies used when engaged in maths, and then shift those strategies when engaged in science or then English literature learning, associate with higher academic outcomes at secondary school.\n\n\"Metastrategic knowledge\" (MSK) is a sub-component of metacognition that is defined as general knowledge about higher order thinking strategies. MSK had been defined as \"general knowledge about the cognitive procedures that are being manipulated\". The knowledge involved in MSK consists of \"making generalizations and drawing rules regarding a thinking strategy\" and of \"naming\" the thinking strategy.\n\nThe important conscious act of a metastrategic strategy is the \"conscious\" awareness that one is performing a form of higher order thinking. MSK is an awareness of the type of thinking strategies being used in specific instances and it consists of the following abilities: making generalizations and drawing rules regarding a thinking strategy, naming the thinking strategy, explaining when, why and how such a thinking strategy should be used, when it should not be used, what are the disadvantages of not using appropriate strategies, and what task characteristics call for the use of the strategy.\n\nMSK deals with the broader picture of the conceptual problem. It creates rules to describe and understand the physical world around the people who utilize these processes called higher-order thinking. This is the capability of the individual to take apart complex problems in order to understand the components in problem. These are the building blocks to understanding the \"big picture\" (of the main problem) through reflection and problem solving.\n\nBoth social and cognitive dimensions of sporting expertise can be adequately explained from a metacognitive perspective according to recent research. The potential of metacognitive inferences and domain-general skills including psychological skills training are integral to the genesis of expert performance. Moreover, the contribution of both mental imagery (e.g., mental practice) and attentional strategies (e.g., routines) to our understanding of expertise and metacognition is noteworthy.\nThe potential of metacognition to illuminate our understanding of action was first highlighted by Aidan Moran who discussed the role of meta-attention in 1996. A recent research initiative, a research seminar series called META funded by the BPS, is exploring the role of the related constructs of meta-motivation, meta-emotion, and thinking and action (metacognition).\n\nIn the context of mental health, metacognition can be loosely defined as the process that \"reinforces one's subjective sense of being a self and allows for becoming aware that some of one's thoughts and feelings are symptoms of an illness\". The interest in metacognition emerged from a concern for an individual's ability to understand their own mental status compared to others as well as the ability to cope with the source of their distress. These insights into an individual's mental health status can have a profound effect on the over-all prognosis and recovery.\nMetacognition brings many unique insights into the normal daily functioning of a human being. It also demonstrates that a lack of these insights compromises 'normal' functioning. This leads to less healthy functioning. In the autism spectrum, there is a profound deficit in Theory of Mind.\nIn people who identify as alcoholics, there is a belief that the need to control cognitions is an independent predictor of alcohol use over anxiety. Alcohol may be used as a coping strategy for controlling unwanted thoughts and emotions formed by negative perceptions. This is sometimes referred to as self medication.\n\nWells' and Matthews' theory proposes that when faced with an undesired choice, an individual can operate in two distinct modes: \"object\" and \"metacognitive\". Object mode interprets perceived stimuli as truth, where metacognitive mode understands thoughts as cues that have to be weighted and evaluated. They are not as easily trusted. There are targeted interventions unique of each patient, that gives rise to the belief that assistance in increasing metacognition in people diagnosed with schizophrenia is possible through tailored psychotherapy. With a customized therapy in place clients then have the potential to develop greater ability to engage in complex self-reflection. This can ultimately be pivotal in the patient's recovery process. In the obsessive–compulsive spectrum, cognitive formulations have greater attention to intrusive thoughts related to the disorder. \"Cognitive self-consciousness\" are the tendencies to focus attention on thought. Patients with OCD exemplify varying degrees of these \"intrusive thoughts\". Patients also suffering from generalized anxiety disorder also show negative thought process in their cognition.\n\nCognitive-attentional syndrome (CAS) characterizes a metacognitive model of emotion disorder (CAS is consistent with the attention strategy of excessively focusing on the source of a threat). This ultimately develops through the client's own beliefs. Metacognitive therapy attempts to correct this change in the CAS. One of the techniques in this model is called attention training (ATT). It was designed to diminish the worry and anxiety by a sense of control and cognitive awareness. ATT also trains clients to detect threats and test how controllable reality appears to be.\n\nThe concept of metacognition has also been applied to reader-response criticism. Narrative works of art, including novels, movies and musical compositions, can be characterized as metacognitive artifacts which are designed by the artist to anticipate and regulate the beliefs and cognitive processes of the recipient, for instance, how and in which order events and their causes and identities are revealed to the reader of a detective story. As Menakhem Perry has pointed out, mere order has profound effects on the aesthetical meaning of a text. Narrative works of art contain a representation of their own ideal reception process. They are something of a tool with which the creators of the work wish to attain certain aesthetical and even moral effects.\n\nThere is an intimate, dynamic interplay between mind wandering and metacognition. Metacognition serves to correct the wandering mind, suppressing spontaneous thoughts and bringing attention back to more \"worthwhile\" tasks.\n\nThe concept of metacognition has also been applied to collective teams and organizations in general, termed organizational metacognition.\n"}
{"id": "16474487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16474487", "title": "Modern Greek Enlightenment", "text": "Modern Greek Enlightenment\n\nThe Modern Greek Enlightenment (, \"Diafotismos\", \"enlightenment,\" \"illumination\") was the Greek expression of the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThe Greek Enlightenment was given impetus by the Greek predominance in trade and education in the Ottoman Empire. Greek merchants financed a large number of young Greeks to study in universities in Italy and the German states. There they were introduced to the ideas of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution. It was the wealth of the extensive Greek merchant class that provided the material basis for the intellectual revival that was the prominent feature of Greek life in the half century and more leading to 1821. It was not by chance that on the eve of the Greek War of Independence the most important centres of Greek learning, schools-cum-universities, were situated in Ioannina, Chios, Smyrna (Izmir) and Ayvalik, all major centres of Greek commerce.\n\nThe Phanariotes were a small caste of Greek families who took their collective name from the Phanar quarter of Constantinople where the Ecumenical Patriarchate is still housed. They held various administrative posts within the Ottoman Empire, the most important of which were those of hospodar, or prince, of the Danubian principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia. Most hospodars acted as patrons of Greek culture, education, and printing. These academies attracted teachers and pupils from throughout the Orthodox commonwealth, and there was some contact with intellectual trends in Habsburg central Europe. For the most part they supported the Ottoman system of government, too much to play a significant part in the emergence of the Greek national movement; however, their support of learning produced many highly educated Greek scholars who benefited from the cosmopolitan environment the Phanariotes cultivated in their principalities.\n\nThis environment was in general a special attraction for young, ambitious and educated Greek people from the Ottoman Empire, contributing to their national enlightenment. The Princely Academies of Bucharest and Iasi also played a crucial role in this movement. Characteristically the authors of the \"Geographia Neoteriki\", one of the most remarkable works of that era, Daniel Philippidis and Grigorios Konstantas, were both educated in this environment.\n\nOne effect was the creation of an atticized form of Greek by linguistic purists, which was adopted as the official language of the state and came to be known as \"Katharevousa\" (purified). This created diglossia in the Greek linguistic sphere, in which \"Katharevousa\" and the vernacular idiom known as \"Dimotiki\" were in conflict until the latter half of the 20th century.\n\nThe transmission of Enlightenment ideas into Greek thought also influenced the development of a national consciousness. The publication of the journal Hermes o Logios encouraged the ideas of the Enlightenment. The journal's objective was to advance Greek science, philosophy and culture. Two of the main figures of the Greek Enlightenment, Rigas Feraios and Adamantios Korais, encouraged Greek nationalists to pursue contemporary political thought.\n\nGreek Enlightenment concerned not only language and the humanities but also the sciences. Some scholars such as Methodios Anthrakites, Evgenios Voulgaris, Athanasios Psalidas, Balanos Vasilopoulos and Nikolaos Darbaris had a background in Mathematics and the Physical Sciences and published scientific books into Greek for use in Greek schools. Rigas Feraios also published an Anthology of Physics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1024794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024794", "title": "Moment of Truth (film series)", "text": "Moment of Truth (film series)\n\nMoment of Truth are a series of made-for-television films made during the 1990s and aired on NBC.\n\nSome of the TV movies produced in the series include:\n\n"}
{"id": "46782188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46782188", "title": "National Women's Front", "text": "National Women's Front\n\nThe National Women's Front (NWF) was formed in 2009 with the stated objective of empowerment of women of India. In the view of the NWF, \"the world's largest democracy still has women marginalized and oppressed\". The NWF seeks to create a platform for Indian women to oppose injustice and claim their rights.\n\nThe status of Indian women is progressing towards gender equality, but women continue to encounter patriarchal standards. Despite the steps towards gender equality, women still face abuse from society. India has a high rate of rapes, while physical assault and acid attacks are on the rise as well. The National Women's Front was founded with the hope of empowering women in the fight for justice and equality. \n\nAlthough NGOs and humanitarian organizations lend support to women's rights in India, western approaches to feminism may not provide the relief necessary.. In 2009, the National Women's Front was launched to \"create a platform for women through which women can stand up against injustice and fight for their rights\". The organization started and worked in three states, but is now working within eight states. The aim is to provide support and encourage women living in rural communities that are often overlooked by the government to fight for their equality. \n\nIn 2014, the NWF Delhi State unit held an International Women's Day celebration with their nationwide campaign \"Women Representation – The Power to Empower\". \n\nIn November of the same year, the NWF organised a conference ‘Awakening’ to debate issues concerning Indian women at Coimbatore. On the eve of the conference, an expo on women's rights and issues was inaugurated by Popular Front of India state president A.S.Ismail. Graphic illustrations of domestic violence, rape, female foeticide and riots victims have been presented at the expo.\n\nA workshop on Women Safety was organized by the National Women's Front at the India Islamic Cultural Center in New Delhi in 2013. In September of the same year National Women's Front organized the national campaign \"Right to Hijab\" across the country to create awareness about hijab and also promote the right to cultural identity. \n\nNWF conducted a campaign related to human rights and legal awareness in various States of India. This campaign sprang from a perception that, under the garb of preventing terrorism, extremism, and Maoism, law enforcement targets minorities, dalits, and tribals by taking them into illegal custody, keeping them in jail, and even killing them in fake encounters, and that none of the political parties were taking a principled stand against what NWF regarded as this injustice. \n\nThe Kerala State committee of National Women's Front organized a campaign against the Uniform Civil Code, as a part of national level of initiative to create awareness of the threat posed by the Code to the cultural diversity of India. They termed the Uniform Civil Code \"anti-national\" as it eliminates the diversity of different communities ultimately destroying Indian Nationalism. According to them it is a manifestation of anti-Muslim and anti-dalit tendencies of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.\n\nIrom Chanu Sharmila has been fasting since 2000 demanding the withdrawal of Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) imposed in Manipur. The arrest of Irom Chanu Sharmila, after the release order from the Imphal Sessions Court, was condemned by the NWF national secretariat members who gathered a meeting in their headquarters. When Irom Chanu Sharmila called an end to her 16 long year fast to enter politics, she received a negative response from the people of Manipur itself. But NWF supported her decision in this cause.\n\nNWF president AS Sainaba strongly condemned the disgraceful attack on Muslim women at the Mandsaur railway station in Madhya Pradesh. It was an attack of cow protection vigilantes. She called for an end to violence, for the culprits to be brought to justice, and for the Government to control hate speakers.\n"}
{"id": "35523569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35523569", "title": "Norse Gods and Giants", "text": "Norse Gods and Giants\n\nNorse Gods and Giants is a children's book written and illustrated by Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire and published by Doubleday in 1967. It was reissued by Doubleday in 1986 as \"d'Aulaires' Norse Gods and Giants\" and by New York Review Books in 2005 as \"d'Aulaires' Book of Norse Myths\".\n\nThe 154-page book is organized as a collection of 30 Norse myths, with color illustrations throughout, from \"The first gods and giants\" and \"The creation of the world\" to \"Ragnarokk, the destiny of the gods\" and \"A new world\". The 2005 Library of Congress catalog summary called it a companion to \"Ingri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire's Book of Greek myths\", published by Doubleday in 1962, a 192-page collection of 46 Greek myths. The Greek and Norse collections are the couple's second and third most widely held works in WorldCat libraries, after their Caldecott Medal-winning picture book \"Abraham Lincoln\" (Doubleday, 1957).\n\n"}
{"id": "6829851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6829851", "title": "Polka-Dot Puss", "text": "Polka-Dot Puss\n\nPolka-Dot Puss is a 1949 one-reel animated cartoon and the 39th \"Tom and Jerry\" short produced in 1948 and released on February 26, 1949 and re-released on September 28, 1956. The short was directed by Tom and Jerry's creators, William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, produced by Fred Quimby, animated by Kenneth Muse, Ed Barge, Ray Patterson and Irven Spence, and scored by Scott Bradley, with this cartoon featuring an early version of the duo's iconic theme tune that would continue to be used in their cartoons throughout the 1950s and 1960s and in most direct-to-video films.\n\nTom is using Jerry as a yo-yo. Tom then hears Mammy-Two-Shoes telling him that it is time to put him out for the night. Noticing that the weather outside is rather unpleasant, and hearing Mammy say that if she stood in the draft she'd \"catch her death of cold\", Tom craftily fakes a cold, pretending to sneeze violently. Mammy asks if Tom has a cold. Tom nods and sneezes again. Mammy has a change of heart and allows Tom to sleep inside for the night, but gives the cat a stern warning that she'd wash his mouth with soap if he was lying. Tom grabs an onlooking Jerry, who appropriately shoves a bar of soap in Tom's mouth. Tom spits out a multitude of soap bubbles and chases Jerry into his mousehole, but ends up with a mousetrap on his nose. When he takes it off, his nose rolls like a window shade.\n\nTom prepares to sleep on the living room floor, nose bandaged up. While Tom is asleep, Jerry enters the room with a small pot of red paint, painting several red spots on his face after removing the bandage on Tom's nose. When Tom wakes up, Jerry convinces him that he has measles, showing evidence of a nationwide measles epidemic in the newspaper, and producing a mirror, showing Tom his own spotty reflection and he screams.\n\nJerry consults Dr. Quack's medicine book and does a number of unorthodox treatments to the now hypochondriacal cat, such as placing a stethoscope next to a ticking alarm clock to intensify Tom's apparent heartbeat, and setting off the alarm shortly afterwards. Jerry then tests Tom's reflexes and pulls out a hammer, hitting it right in Tom's right knee, causing Tom to scream in pain as Jerry shoves a thermometer in Tom's mouth, holding a cigarette lighter underneath the thermometer, causing the temperature to rise, expanding the thermometer, such that it explodes.\n\nThe next chapter of the medical book urges Jerry to apply chills to Tom's high fever. Soon Tom is in the freezer, teeth chattering. Jerry unloads a spoonful of ice cubes onto Tom's body and puts a spoonful of ice cubes into his mouth, and then closes the freezer door for a few seconds. As he opens the door, a frozen-solid Tom slides out of the freezer. Jerry panics and looks at the following book's advice on extreme chills, then shoves Tom into the oven, turning it onto a low temperature. Opening the oven door, Tom is now conscious, but still very cold, and baking in his own juices and grease. Jerry pours some juice and grease over Tom and then closes the door, adjusting the oven's temperature. When he opens the door again, Tom is bright red and burning. Jerry quickly touches the hot cat and burns himself. Thinking quickly, he places Tom onto a baking tray and heads for the bathroom, giving him a cold shower.\n\nTom later emerges from the shower, covered in towels and using hot-water bottles as sandals. He observes himself in the mirror and notices that most of his spots have gone. As he wipes his forehead, the final two spots are removed and transferred to his paw. Just then, Tom sees a small jar of red paint hidden in the corner, while Jerry puts the book down and tip-toes from him. Tom paints three spots on his head, and realization dawns on him; his mirror image changes to a donkey jackass. Tom becomes furious after realizing that he has been pranked the whole time and he runs to the living room, where he grabs a sword, ready to get back at Jerry. Tom finds the mouse sitting hunched-up with head in hands, looking very depressed somehow, and he only blinks at Tom apathetically when prodded with the sword's keen point. Only when Tom snatches him up does Jerry break out in genuine measles spots, which proliferate before Tom's horrified gaze. Tom quickly dashes to the bathroom and washes his hands, and then doses himself frantically with everything he can find from the medicine cabinet (throat sprays, pills, mouthwash, nasal drops, etc., but little does he know that there is no cure for measles), while a sped-up version of George Frideric Handel's \"Death March\" plays over.\n\nBy the end, both the cat and mouse are covered in spots from head to foot and are being quarantined by Mammy Two Shoes herself. Tom pouts and glares at Jerry for making him get measles. Then Jerry holds up a mirror, looks into it and sticks out his tongue, which, too, is covered in spots, and may also imply that Jerry got a more severe case of the measles than Tom did. He then puts the mirror down and leans by the window on the windowsill.\n\n\nDVD\n\n"}
{"id": "40058503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40058503", "title": "R.R.D.T.", "text": "R.R.D.T.\n\nRodolfo Rojas D.T. was a 1997-1998 Argentine telenovela, starring , China Zorrilla, Pepe Soriano and Patricia Sosa. It lasted for two seasons. Carlos Calvo plays the main character, Rodolfo Rojas, a football manager (D.T. is an acronym in Spanish for \"Director técnico\", a football manager). It got five nominations to the Martín Fierro award, all of them unsuccessful. \n"}
{"id": "2363474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2363474", "title": "Rice-hull bagwall construction", "text": "Rice-hull bagwall construction\n\nRice-hull bagwall construction is a system of building, with results aesthetically similar to the use of earthbag or cob construction. Woven polypropylene bags (or tubes) are tightly filled with raw rice-hulls, and these are stacked up, layer upon layer, with strands of four-pronged barbed wire between. A surrounding \"cage\" composed of mats of welded or woven steel mesh (remesh or \"poultry wire\") on both sides (wired together between bag layers with, for example, rebar tie-wire) and then stuccoed, to form building walls. \n\nAdvantages (compared to earth-bag or cob) include less weight to handle/process, far better insulation values (around 3 - 4 per inch), use of an agricultural-waste product and the sequestration of CO. This building approach was originally innovated and tested by Don Stephens, in the northwestern U.S. in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26971", "title": "Seat", "text": "Seat\n\nA seat is a place to sit. The term may encompass additional features, such as back, armrest, head restraint but also headquarters in a wider sense.\n\nThe following are examples of different kinds of seat:\n\n\nThe word seat comes from Middle English \"sete\" and from Old Norse \"sæti\"; akin to Old English \"gesete\" seat, \"sittan\" to sit. The first known use of the word seat is in the 13th century.\n\nFor someone seated, the 'buttock popliteal' length is the horizontal distance from the rearmost part of the buttocks to the back of the lower leg. This anthropometric measurement is used to determine seat depth. Mass-produced chairs typically use a depth of .\n\n"}
{"id": "12912463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12912463", "title": "Self access language learning centers", "text": "Self access language learning centers\n\nSelf access language learning centers are educational facilities designed for student learning that is at least partially, if not fully self-directed. Students have access to resources ranging from photocopied exercises with answer keys to computer software for language learning. These centers are an outgrowth of a style of learning that can go by several names: learner-centered approach, learner autonomy or self-directed learning. These centers exist primarily in Asia, Europe and North America. Use of such facilities and the pedagogical theory they are based upon has its advantages and disadvantages. Proper use can result in a feeling of empowerment and better learning outcomes, but getting to the point where students and teachers can exploit them effectively can be problematic. For this reason, the structure of established self access centers varies from completely student-directed work with classroom immersion to programs that provide primarily tutor or instructor guidance for student work.\n\nSelf access language learning promotes the approach where students study independently choosing from among different resources that are available. The theory behind this style of learning is that students, especially foreign language students, learn better if they have a say in how they learn. Self-access language learning is closely related to learner-centered approach, learner autonomy and self-directed learning as all focus on student responsibility and active participation for his/her own learning. This style of instruction is most often done in the setting of a self-contained learning environment or self-access center.\n\nSelf-access centers can be as simple as a classroom set aside with dictionaries and shelves of paper-based exercises to state-of-the-art digital centers with various types of computer- and Internet-based resources. What resources are available and how students are guided to use them depend on the financial resources available and how much learner autonomy an institution decides to give students.\n\n\nSome of the advantages of this form of learning is that students at the very least set the pace of their work. Depending on the individual center, students can also set the level and content of their work. Students can use these centers voluntarily or can have assignments to complete there. The major advantage, therefore, is flexibility, with the purpose of giving the students themselves the opportunity to tailor the course more to their learning needs and styles than a more traditional mode of teaching.\n\nUse of multiple technologies in a more independent setting has been shown to improve motivation and increase students’ ability to work independently by taking more responsibility for their own learning. Students also report feeling more “empowered” by such modes of instruction.\n\nThe major disadvantages of this mode has basically to do with the ability of both students and teachers to adapt and integrate this method effectively. Many students are not used to working independently, creating the need to provide guidance as to the use of this kind of center, at least in the beginning. One study reports that students do not seem to want too much freedom in their use of technology. 73% reported that they preferred a regularly scheduled lab time, with the facilitative presence of a teacher. Significantly less than half reported that they preferred completely free access to the lab or to do work at home on their own computer.\n\nFor teachers, the 'letting go' of control can be equally disorienting and it may seem that giving students such control depreciates teachers' skills and experience. Traditionally, teachers are used to being the center of student activity, controlling how, when and why students do what they do. Students have been expected to work in \"lock-step\" with the teacher orchestrating what students do to a very high degree. Teachers, in turn, rely on textbooks that allow little variation. Use of self-access center materials steer students way from the rigidity and \"security\" of this paradigm, causing teachers to lose their \"all-powerful\" and \"all-knowing\" position. This can cause problems integrating a self-access center due to political and institutional constraints.\n\nOther possible problems have to do with availability of physical resources.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27298224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27298224", "title": "Serbo-Croatian phonology", "text": "Serbo-Croatian phonology\n\nSerbo-Croatian is a South Slavic language with four national standards. The Eastern Herzegovinian Neo-Shtokavian dialect forms the basis for Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian (the four national standards).\n\nSerbo-Croatian has 30 phonemes, 25 consonants and 5 vowels, and a pitch accent, whereas Montenegrin has two more consonants.\n\nThe consonant system of Serbo-Croatian has 25 phonemes. One peculiarity is a presence of both post-alveolar and palatal affricates, but a lack of corresponding palatal fricatives. Unlike most other Slavic languages such as Russian, there is no palatalized versus non-palatalized (\"hard–soft\") contrast for most consonants.\n\nThe retroflex consonants are, in more detailed phonetic studies, described as apical . In most spoken Croatian idioms, as well as in some Bosnian, they are postalveolar () instead, and there could be a complete or partial merger between and palatal affricates .\n\nAlveolo-palatal fricatives are marginal phonemes, usually realized as consonant clusters . However, the emerging Montenegrin standard has proposed two additional letters, Latin , and Cyrillic , , for the phonemic sequences , which may be realized phonetically as .\n\nVoicing contrasts are neutralized in consonant clusters, so that all obstruents are either voiced or voiceless depending on the voicing of the final consonant, though this process of voicing assimilation may be blocked by syllable boundaries.\n\nThe Serbo-Croatian vowel system is symmetrically composed of five vowel qualities . Although the difference between long and short vowels is phonemic, it is not represented in standard orthography, as it is in Czech or Slovak orthography, except in dictionaries. Unstressed vowels are shorter than the stressed ones by 30% (in the case of short vowels) and 50% (in the case of long vowels).\n\nThe long Ijekavian reflex of Proto-Slavic \"jat\" is of disputed status. The prescriptive grammar published by the foremost Croatian normative body—the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics, describes it as a diphthong, but this norm has been heavily criticized by phoneticians as having no foundation in the spoken language, the alleged diphthong being called a \"phantom phoneme\". Thus the reflex of long \"jat\", which is spelled as a trigraph in standard Croatian, Bosnian and Ijekavian Serbian, represents the sequence .\n\nStressed vowels carry one of the two basic tones, rising and falling.\n\nShtokavian dialects allow two tones on stressed syllables and have distinctive vowel length and so distinguish four combinations, called pitch accent: short falling (ȅ), short rising (è), long falling (ȇ), and long rising (é).\n\nMost speakers from Serbia and Croatia do not distinguish between short rising and short falling tones. They also pronounce most unstressed long vowels as short, with some exceptions, such as genitive plural endings.\n\nThe accent is relatively free because it can be on any syllable except the last one.(Note, however, that the word paradàjz ('tomato' nominative sg.) normally bears a short rising tone on the final syllable in the speech of educated speakers. Further exceptions to this prescriptive rule are found in words such as fabrikànt ('manufacturer' nominative sg.), asistènt ('assistant' nominative sg.), apsolvènt ('student who has fulfilled all requirements except an honours thesis' nominative sg.), trafikànt ('sales assistant at a newsstand' nominative sg.), etc.) Accent alternations are very frequent in inflectional paradigms, in both quality and placement in the word (the so-called \"mobile paradigms\", which were present in Proto-Indo-European itself and became much more widespread in Proto-Balto-Slavic). Different inflected forms of the same lexeme can exhibit all four accents: ('pot' nominative sg.), (genitive singular), (nominative plural), (genitive plural).\n\nResearch done by Pavle Ivić and Ilse Lehiste has shown that all stressed syllables of Serbo-Croatian words are basically spoken with a high tone and that native speakers rely on the phonetic tone of the first post-tonic syllable to judge the pitch accent of any given word. If the high tone of the stressed syllable is carried over to the first post-tonic syllable, the accent is perceived as \"rising\". If it is not, the accent is perceived as \"falling\", which is the reason monosyllabic words are always perceived as \"falling\". Therefore, truly narrow phonetic transcriptions of , , and are or the equivalent . Ivić and Lehiste were not the first scholars to notice this; in fact, Leonhard Masing made a very similar discovery decades earlier, but it was ignored due to him being a foreigner and because it contradicted the Vukovian approach, which was then already well-ingrained.\n\nAlthough distinctions of pitch occur only in stressed syllables, unstressed vowels maintain a length distinction. Pretonic syllables are always short, but posttonic syllables may be either short or long. These are traditionally counted as two additional accents. In the standard language, the six accents are realized as follows:\n\nExamples are short falling as in ('sky') ; long falling as in ('beer') ; short rising as in ('eye makeup') ; long rising as in ('chocolate') . Unstressed long syllables can occur only after the accented syllable, as in ('girl') or ('delivering') . There can be more than one post-accent length in a word, notably in genitive plural of nouns: ('cubes') → ('cubes<nowiki>'</nowiki>'). Realization of the accents varies by region.\n\nRestrictions on the distribution of the accent depend, beside the position of the syllable, also on its quality, as not every kind of accent can be manifested in every syllable.\n\nThus, monosyllabics generally have falling tone, and polysyllabics generally have falling or rising tone on the first syllable and rising in all the other syllables but the last one. The tonal opposition rising ~ falling is hence generally possible only in the first accented syllable of polysyllabic words, and the opposition by lengths, long ~ short, is possible even in the non-accented syllable as well as in the postaccented syllable (but not in the preaccented position).\n\nProclitics, clitics that latch on to a following word, on the other hand, may \"steal\" a falling tone (but not a rising tone) from the following monosyllabic or disyllabic word. The stolen accent is always short and may end up being either falling or rising on the proclitic. The phenomenon (accent shift to proclitic) is most frequent in the spoken idioms of Bosnia, as in Serbian it is more limited (normally with the negation proclitic \"ne\") and it is almost absent from Croatian Neo-Shtokavian idioms. Such a shift is less frequent for short rising accents than for the falling one (as seen in this example: → ).\n\nSerbo-Croatian exhibits a number of morphophonological alternations. Some of them are inherited from Proto-Slavic and are shared with other Slavic languages, and some of them are exclusive to Serbo-Croatian, representing later innovation.\n\nThe so-called \"fleeting a\" (Serbo-Croatian: ), or \"movable a\", refers to the phenomenon of short /a/ making apparently random appearance and loss in certain inflected forms of nouns. This is a result of different types of reflexes Common Slavic \"jers\" */ъ/ and */ь/, which in Štokavian and Čakavian dialects merged to one schwa-like sound, which was lost in a weak position and vocalized to */a/ in a strong position, giving rise to what is apparently unpredictable alternation. In most of the cases, this has led to such /a/ appearing in word forms ending in consonant clusters, but not in forms with vowel ending.\n\nThe \"fleeting a\" is most common in the following cases:\n\nThe reflex of the Slavic first palatalization was retained in Serbo-Croatian as an alternation of\nbefore in inflection, and before and some other segments in word formation. This alternation is prominently featured in several characteristic cases:\n\n\nThere are some exceptions to the process of palatalization. The conditions are:\nDoublets exist with adjectives derived with suffix from trisyllabic proper names:\n\nThe output of the second and the third Slavic palatalization is in the Serbo-Croatian grammar tradition known as \"sibilantization\" (sibilarizácija/сибилариза́ција). It results in the following alternations before :\nThis alternation is prominently featured in several characteristic cases:\n\nIn two cases there is an exception to sibilantization:\n\nDoublets are allowed in the following cases:\n\nThere are two types of consonant assimilation: by voicing (\"jednačenje po zvučnosti\") and by place of articulation (\"jednačenje po m(j)estu tvorbe\").\n\nAll consonants in clusters are neutralized by voicing, but Serbo-Croatian does not exhibit final-obstruent devoicing as most other Slavic languages do. Assimilation is practically always regressive, i.e. voicing of the group is determined by voicing of the last consonant. Sonorants are exempted from assimilation, so it affects only the following consonants:\n\nFurthermore, , and don't have voiced counterparts, so they trigger the assimilation, but are not affected by it.\n\nAs can be seen from the examples above, assimilation is generally reflected in orthography. However, there are numerous orthographic exceptions, i.e. even if voicing or devoicing does take place in speech, the orthography does not record it, usually to maintain the etymology clearer.\n\nAssimilation by place of articulation affects and in front of (post)alveolars , as well as palatals and , producing or :\n\nSimultaneously, assimilation by voicing is triggered if necessary.\n\nA historical in coda position has become and is now so spelled, and produces an additional syllable. For example, the Serbo-Croatian name of Belgrade is \"Beograd\". However, in Croatian, the process is partially reversed; compare Croatian \"stol\", \"vol\", \"sol\" vs. Serbian \"sto\", \"vo\", \"so\" ('table', 'ox' and 'salt').\n\nThe sample text is a reading of the first sentence of The North Wind and the Sun by a 57-year-old female announcer at the Croatian Television Network reading in a colloquial style.\n\nSjeverni ledeni vjetar i Sunce su se prepirali o svojoj snazi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132518", "title": "Sitdown strike", "text": "Sitdown strike\n\nA sit-down strike is a labour strike and a form of civil disobedience in which an organized group of workers, usually employed at factories or other centralized locations, take unauthorized or illegal possession of the workplace by \"sitting down\" at their stations. The attraction for workers of a sit-down strike is that the practice prevents employers from replacing them with strikebreakers or removing equipment to transfer production to other locations. Neal Ascherson has commented that an additional attraction of the practice is that it emphasizes the role of workers in providing for the people, and allows workers to in effect hold valuable machinery hostage as a bargaining chip.\n\nWorkers have used this technique since the beginning of the 20th century in countries such as United States, Italy, Poland, Croatia, and France. However, sit-down strikes are now uncommon.\n\nThe radical syndicalist group Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) were the first American union to use the sit-down strike. On December 10, 1906, at the General Electric Works in Schenectady, New York, 3,000 workers sat down on the job and stopped production to protest the dismissal of three fellow IWW members. The three fired IWW members were ultimately rehired.\n\nThe United Auto Workers staged successful sit-down strikes in the 1930s, most famously in the Flint Sit-Down Strike of 1936–1937. In Flint, Michigan, strikers occupied several General Motors plants for more than forty days, and repelled the efforts of the police and National Guard to retake them. A wave of sit-down strikes followed, but diminished by the end of the decade as the courts and the National Labor Relations Board held that sit-down strikes were illegal and sit-down strikers could be fired (see the 1939 Supreme Court ruling in NLRB v. Fansteel Metallurgical Corp.). While some sit-down strikes still occur in the United States, they tend to be spontaneous and short-lived.\n\nFrench workers engaged in a number of factory occupations in the wake of the French student revolt in May 1968. At one point more than twenty-five percent of French workers were on strike, many of them occupying their factories.\n\nIn 1973, the workers at the Triumph Motorcycles factory at Meriden, West Midlands, locked the new owners, NVT, out following the announcement of their plan to close Meriden. The sit-in lasted over a year until the British government intervened, the result of which was the formation of the Meriden Motorcycle Co-operative which produced Triumphs until their closure in 1983.\n\nThe sit-down strike was the inspiration for the sit-in, where an organized group of protesters would occupy an area in which they are not wanted by sitting and refuse to leave until their demands are met.\n\n"}
{"id": "161697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161697", "title": "The Children of Men", "text": "The Children of Men\n\nThe Children of Men is a dystopian novel by English writer P. D. James, published in 1992. Set in England in 2021, it centres on the results of mass infertility. James describes a United Kingdom that is steadily depopulating and focuses on a small group of resisters who do not share the disillusionment of the masses.\n\nThe book received very positive reviews from many critics such as Caryn James of \"The New York Times\", who called it \"wonderfully rich\" and \"a trenchant analysis of politics and power that speaks urgently\". The academic Alan Jacobs said, \"Of all James’ novels, \"The Children of Men\" is probably the most pointed in its social criticism, certainly the deepest in its theological reflection.\"\n\nThe narrative voice for the novel alternates between the third person and the first person, the latter in the form of a diary kept by Dr. Theodore \"Theo\" Faron, an Oxford don.\n\nThe novel opens with the first entry in Theo's diary. It is the year 2021; but the novel's events have their origin in 1995, which is referred to as \"Year Omega\". In 1994, the sperm count of human males plummeted to zero, and a feminist civil war breaks out, and mankind now faces imminent extinction. The last people to be born are now called \"Omegas\". \"A race apart\", they enjoy various prerogatives. Theo writes that the last human being to be born on Earth has been killed in a pub brawl.\n\nIn 2006, Xan Lyppiatt, Theo's rich and charismatic cousin, appointed himself of England in the last general election. As people have lost all interest in politics, Lyppiatt abolishes democracy. He is called a despot and tyrant by his opponents, but officially the new society is referred to as egalitarian.\n\nTheo is approached by a woman called Julian, a member of a group of dissidents calling themselves the Five Fishes. He meets with them at an isolated church. Rolf, their leader and Julian's husband, is hostile; but the others–Miriam (a former midwife), Gascoigne (a man from a military family), Luke (a former priest), and Julian–are more personable. The group wants Theo to approach Xan on their behalf and ask for various reforms, including a return to a more democratic system. During their discussions, as Theo prepares to meet with Xan, the reader learns how the UK is in 2021:\n\n\nTheo's meeting, which turns out to be a meeting with the full Council of England, does not go well. Some of the members resent him because he resigned as Xan's advisor rather than share the responsibility of governing the UK. Xan guesses that Theo's suggestions came from others and makes clear to Theo that he will take action against dissidents.\n\nThe Five Fishes distribute a leaflet detailing their demands. The secret police visit Theo. He sees Julian in the market shortly afterwards. He tells her of the SSP visit, then tells her that if ever she needs him she only has to send for him. That night, however, Theo decides to leave England for the summer and visit the continent before nature overruns it.\n\nSoon after Theo's return, Miriam tells him that Gascoigne was arrested as he was trying to rig a Quietus landing stage to explode. The other Fishes are about to go on the run, and Julian wants him. Miriam reveals why Julian did not come herself—she is pregnant. Theo believes Julian is deceiving herself, but when the two meet, Julian invites Theo to listen to her baby's heartbeat.\n\nDuring the group's flight, Luke is killed while trying to protect Julian during a confrontation with a wild gang of Omegas. Julian confesses that the father of her child is not Rolf, but rather the deceased Luke. Rolf, who believes he should rule the U.K. in Xan's place, is angered at the discovery; he abandons the group to notify the Warden.\n\nThe group heads to a shack Theo knows of. Miriam delivers Julian's baby – a boy, not a girl as Julian had thought. Miriam goes to find more supplies; after she is gone too long, Theo investigates. He finds Miriam dead, garrotted in a nearby house. Theo returns to Julian, but soon afterward Julian hears a noise outside – Xan.\n\nTheo and Xan confront each other and both fire one shot. The sudden wailing of the baby startles Xan, causing him to miss, as Rolf had thought the baby would not be born for another month. Theo shoots and kills Xan. He removes from Xan's finger the Coronation Ring, which Xan had taken to wearing as a symbol of authority, and seems poised to become the new leader of the UK – at least temporarily. The other members of the Council are introduced to the baby, and Theo baptises him.\n\nIn 2006, a film adaptation was directed by Alfonso Cuarón, starring Julianne Moore and Clive Owen. The film was well received, and, according to Cuarón, P.D. James was said to have been pleased with it despite the alterations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4087691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087691", "title": "The Fight (The Office)", "text": "The Fight (The Office)\n\n\"The Fight\" is the sixth episode of the second season of the television series \"The Office\", and the show's twelfth episode overall. It was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg and directed by Ken Kwapis. It originally aired on November 1, 2005 on NBC. \"The Fight\" guest starred Lance Krall, who played the part of Dwight's sensei, Ira.\n\nThe series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. In this episode, Michael Scott (Steve Carell), after being embarrassed by Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) superior fighting skills, engages in a karate match with Dwight during lunch. Meanwhile, Jim Halpert's (John Krasinski) flirting with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) goes too far.\n\n\"The Fight\" was known as \"Karate\" and \"The Dojo\" by members of the cast and crew due to many of the scenes featuring the titular fight. Several of the cast members of the show, recurring and starring, had martial arts experience. The episode contained several cultural references, with many referring to popular fighting-related movies and television shows. \"The Fight\" received largely positive reviews from critics. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 3.9 in the 18–49 demographic and was viewed by 7.9 million viewers.\n\nMichael Scott (Steve Carell) has one task: sign routine documents. Unfortunately, it's a month where three separate sets of paperwork are due at the same time, so Michael mulishly ignores his workload. To procrastinate, Michael makes Ryan Howard (B. J. Novak) update emergency contact information of the staff. When Michael gets Ryan's cell phone number, he constantly prank calls Ryan with crude impersonations of Michael Jackson, Mike Tyson, and Saddam Hussein.\n\nTalk of Dwight Schrute's (Rainn Wilson) karate experience gets Michael's competitive juices flowing, leading to a lunchtime match between the two at Dwight's dojo. Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) accidentally goes too far when horsing around with Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer), and she abruptly shuts him down when their co-workers take notice.\n\nAfter a pathetic showing by both combatants, Michael emerges victorious over Dwight, which leads to Dwight changing his emergency contact from \"Michael Scott\" to \"The Hospital\". At the end of the day, Michael promotes Dwight from his lowly \"Assistant to the Regional Manager\" position to his dream position: \"Assistant Regional Manager\" (although the \"promotion\" is little more than a title change only). However, this was done most likely to ensure that Dwight will still idolize him despite the hard feelings over their lunchtime battle. The rest of the staff, fed up with Michael's inability to accomplish even the simplest task, are forced to forge his signature on all the documents and get home.\n\nOn the way out, Jim gives Pam the bag of chips he owed her from earlier. Pam quietly takes them and stares in a forgiving manner after Jim leaves.\n\n\"The Fight\" was written by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, while Ken Kwapis served as the episode's director. The episode was the first entry of the series to be written by Stupnitsky and Eisenberg; it was also Kwapis' fifth episode directed. The episode guest starred comedian and actor Lance Krall, who portrayed Dwight's sensei, Ira. B. J. Novak, who portrays Ryan Howard in the series, noted that when the episode was being filmed, the majority of the cast and crew called it \"'Karate', or 'The Dojo', since the most memorable scenes involve a karate fight.\" Novak explained that the episode centered on the effects of procrastination \"carried to the nth degree\". However, he noted that it was more memorable as \"the episode in which Steve Carell and Rainn Wilson jump-kick each other in public to try to prove a point.\"\n\nSeveral of the cast members had experience in martial arts prior to the filming of the episode. Rainn Wilson used to study karate and is a certified yellow belt. Krall is a black belt in Taekwondo and was nationally ranked. One of background actresses who played a student in Dwight's class was actually a black belt, but was forced to wear a white belt; ultimately, she was unhappy about having to hide her ability. Eventually, she vented her frustration by \"practically knock[ing] Rainn over when she kicked the pad he was holding\", which was included in the episode. During the filming of the episode, the protective piece of headgear that Wilson wore actually cut him.\n\nDuring the filming of many scenes in the episode, the cast and crew member kept breaking character and laughing. Jenna Fischer recalls that she had to film the scene where Ryan reveals that he is working on emergency contacts \"about 20 times\". In addition, Fischer noted that her and John Krasinski kept laughing \"about a million times\" during the kitchen confrontation between Michael and Dwight. During the dojo scenes, cinematographer Randall Einhorn and Krall \"lost it\" when Michael pinned down. In fact, shots of Krall (and several of the cast) laughing made it into the closing scene of the episode.\n\nThe Season Two DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode. Notable cut scenes include brief shots of Dwight at the dojo and Michael and Dwight preparing to fight, Jim asking Dwight whom he could take on in a fight, Dwight discusses the result of the fight, Stanley confronting Michael about signing the forms, Michael saying that \"no one ever lost their job for missing deadlines\", and Michael delivering Pam the emergency contact information.\n\nDuring the game of \"phone tag\", Michael impersonates Michael Jackson, Tito Jackson, Mike Tyson, and Saddam Hussein. In addition, several songs are alluded to. Michael sings \"I don't want to work/I just want to bang on this mug all day\" to the tune of \"Bang the Drum All Day\" by Todd Rundgren. Jim alludes to the Jets, one of the rival street gangs in the musical \"West Side Story\", by quoting the noted lyrics \"When you're a Jet, you're a Jet all the way\", as well as snapping his fingers in the same way as the gang members. Several popular quotes are misused in the episode: Michael consistently misuses the phrase \"Catch-22\", and Dwight mistakes the phrase \"tit for tat\" as \"tit for tit\".\n\nSeveral noted films are referenced in the episode. After grabbing Dwight in a sleeper hold, Michael nonsensically shouts out \"Bedtime for Bonzo\", a 1951 movie starring Ronald Reagan. Michael notes that Dwight cried at the end of \"Armageddon\", a 1998 science fiction action movie starring Bruce Willis. Michael's line \"You talkin' to me?\" is a line performed by Robert De Niro in the movie \"Taxi Driver\". Michael mis-attributes it to Al Pacino in \"Raging Bull\". \"The Karate Kid\" franchise is referenced two separate times. Michael notes that Dwight is the \"Hilary Swank version\", a reference to \"The Next Karate Kid\", the fourth movie in the \"Karate Kid\" series, starring Swank as the first female student of sensei Miyagi. Kevin later tells Dwight to \"sweep the leg\", a quote from the original movie. The episode also contains several television references. Jim mocks Pam by doubting her status as an Ultimate Fighter; \"The Ultimate Fighter\" is a reality television series in the form of a martial arts competition. Michael turns the insult \"queer\" into a reference to \"Queer Eye for the Straight Guy\", a make-over reality television program featuring five openly gay men dispensing fashion and style advise.\n\n\"The Fight\" originally aired on NBC in the United States on November 1, 2005. The episode was viewed by 7.9 million viewers and received a 3.9 rating/9% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 3.9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 9% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. An encore presentation of the episode, on April 25, 2006, received 3.0 rating/8% share and retained 91% of its lead in \"My Name is Earl\" viewership. The encore presentation was viewed by over 6.1 million viewers.\n\nErik Adams of \"The A.V. Club\" awarded the episode a \"B\", and wrote that he enjoyed the way the important elements of the episode go \"unspoken: Jim composes an apology email but doesn’t send it; the way the spectators are blocked during the main event at the dojo, there’s practically an entire office standing between Krasinski and Jenna Fischer.\" Adams also enjoyed the way the episode wrote Pam's reaction, noting \"is she generally uncomfortable, is she afraid of what Meredith might assume, or is she afraid of her own feelings?\"\n\nCritical reception to the episode was largely positive. \"Miss Alli\" from Television Without Pity have the episode a positive review and rated it an A–. Francis Rizzo III from DVD Talk called the episode \"classic\", and praised the performance of Rainn Wilson as Dwight. He noted that the episode, along with several others, \"wouldn't be nearly as entertaining\" without his character. TV Fanatic reviewed several quotes from \"The Fight\", and rated Michael's \"Would I rather be feared or loved?\" soliloquy and Michael's confession that Dwight cried at the end of \"Armageddon\" 5 out of 5. In 2006, Jenna Fischer said that the episode's cold opening, featuring Jim moving Dwight's desk into the bathroom, was her favorite prank on the show.\n\n"}
{"id": "289986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289986", "title": "The Magic School Bus (book series)", "text": "The Magic School Bus (book series)\n\nThe Magic School Bus is a series of children's books about science, written by Joanna Cole and illustrated by Bruce Degen. They feature the antics of Ms. Valerie Frizzle and her class, who board a sentient anthropomorphic Type A school bus which takes them on field trips to impossible locations, including the solar system, clouds, the past, and the human body. The books are written in the first person from the point of view of an unnamed student in \"the Friz's\" class. The class pet Liz, a lizard, accompanies the class on their field trips.\n\nSince the \"Magic School Bus\" books present scientific facts in the form of stories in which fantastic things happen (for example, the bus turns into a spaceship, or children shrink to the size of blood cells), each book has a page at the end detailing in a humorous manner which parts of the book represented scientific fact and which were fanciful storytelling.\n\nCraig Walker, vice-president and senior editorial director at Scholastic Co., stated that the concept began with the idea of combining science with fictional stories, and Joanna Cole (who had written both science and humor before) and Bruce Degen were then approached with creating such a series. Walker also states that his own memories of school field trips and of a teacher he had once, served as further inspiration.\n\nThe first book \"At the Waterworks\" was written in 1985 and published the following year.\n\nCole and Degen started a new series called \"Ms. Frizzle's Adventures\" in 2001, which teaches social studies. There are now three books in that series. Microsoft Home started publishing \"Magic School Bus\" software in 1994.\n\nScholastic Entertainment, the American Meteorological Society and the Children's Museum of Houston created a \"Scholastics the Magic School Bus Kicks Up a Storm\", a . traveling exhibit funded in part by the National Science Foundation, which premiered at the Children's Museum of Houston in 2003 (a copy of it opened in New Jersey the month after that).\n\nIn the original books (the original series books), Ms. Frizzle's class had a larger number of students (or \"characters\") and consisted of Tim, Arnold, Ralph (changed to \"Ralphie\" on the show and later books in this series), Dorothy Ann, Wanda, Phoebe, John, Carmen, Gregory, Amanda-Jane, Florrie, Shirley, Michael, Phil, Molly, Rachel, Alex, Carlos, and Keesha (19 students). Phoebe was first introduced in the 1987 book, \"The Magic School Bus Inside the Earth\", and Carlos and Keesha were added in the 1994 book, \"The Magic School Bus In the Time of Dinosaurs\".\n\nThe homework assignments of all the students were seen in the books. In the TV series (and the TV tie in books and the original CD rom series from the video games), these assignments were included in early episodes and were usually presented by Dorothy Ann.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe original Magic School Bus books are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56466696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56466696", "title": "Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi", "text": "Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi\n\n\"Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi\", or \"Tūtira Mai\", is a New Zealand Māori folk song (or waiata) written in the 1950s by Canon Wiremu Te Tau Huata. The song became popular after being selected by New Zealand's Ministry of Education for inclusion in schoolbooks.\n\nHuata wrote \"Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi\" while part of an Ecumenical Movement in the late 1950s. He was driving from Wairoa, Hawke's Bay with his children and passed Lake Tūtira. He would sing the lyrics and his children would repeat them, learning it as they drove to Napier. The waiata eventually grew in popularity through Huata performing it in churches and Bible classes. By the 1960s, the New Zealand government's Ministry of Education picked up the waiata and started publishing it for use in New Zealand's schools without Huata's consent and didn't credit him as the author. As a result after 50 years of being used in schools, his daughter revealed that some of the lyrics were published incorrectly.\n\nIn 2017, the New Zealand Rugby Union started a campaign for the 2017 British and Irish Lions tour for New Zealand national rugby union team fans to adopt \"Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi\" as a rallying chant to try to outsing the British and Irish Lions fans. The campaign was led by the New Zealand Police constable and former All Black Glen Osborne. However the attempt was poorly received by All Blacks fans. The Lions fans also hijacked the song changing the chorus from \"Tatou, Tatou\" to \"Lions, Lions\". The New Zealand media criticised the NZRU for attempting to manufacture a favourable atmosphere, believing that \"Tūtira Mai Ngā Iwi\" was an inappropriate choice.\n"}
{"id": "55636516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55636516", "title": "Umbertina", "text": "Umbertina\n\nUmbertina (1979) is a feminist novel by Helen Barolini. It tells the story of four generations of women in one Italian-American family. It is the first novel by an Italian-American woman which explores, in depth, the connected themes of gender and ethnicity.\n\nPrologue\n\nThe prologue is set in Rome in the 1970s, with Marguerite, an American expatriate, in the office of her psychiatrist. Although living a comfortable middle-class life, Marguerite is floundering, without direction. She often thinks of her maternal grandmother, Umbertina, who had a \"primitive strength\" that Marguerite envies.\n\nPart One: Umbertina, 1860-1940\n\nAt sixteen, Umbertina works as a goatherd in the hills above the Calabrian village of Castagna. She lives with her parents, brothers, and sisters in a one-room, dirt-floored stone cabin. Her father, Carlo Nenci, is a poor tenant farmer who toils for the Baron Mancuso di Valerba, an absentee landlord who takes half of everything produced by the villagers.\n\nOne day Giosuè, a charcoal maker from the next village, presents Umbertina with a heart-shaped holder for her knitting needles, which he made himself out of tin. Umbertina likes Giosuè, who has beautiful dark hair and eyes, but her father instead promises her to Serafino Longobardi, an older man who had fought in the Campaign of 1860. Well in advance of the wedding, Umbertina asks the local priest's housekeeper, Nelda, to weave her a matrimonial bedspread in the traditional Calabrian style. It is the one valuable possession she will bring to her new home. She also asks Nelda for some rosemary, hoping that once she is married she will at last have chicken to cook with it. Nelda tells her of an old saying: where rosemary thrives, \"the women of that house are its strength.\"\n\nSerafino buys a small plot of farmland, and Umbertina gives birth to three children. Oppressive taxes, high interest rates, and depleted soil make it impossible to break even. At Umbertina's urging, they decide to emigrate to America. They load their few possessions onto a donkey and, with a few of their neighbors, make their way to Naples where they board a ship for New York. For the next two years, the family lives in an overcrowded Italian ghetto. Umbertina takes in laundry while Serafino works as a laborer. They make the mistake of entrusting their meager savings to a fly-by-night immigrant bank, and are left with nothing. Umbertina sells her bedspread to a social worker, and the family moves to Cato, New York, where some of their old friends from Castagna have settled.\n\nWhile Serafino labors at the railroad yard, the enterprising Umbertina begins selling freshly made pizza and panini to his co-workers for lunch. As the business expands, she leases farmland to grow fresh produce and opens a grocery store. She gives birth to five more children, including a daughter, Carla. The family business thrives, and the Longobardis become affluent and Americanized. On her deathbed, the elderly Umbertina has a vision of the lost bedspread with its intricately patterned design. Just before she dies, she asks her son for a cup of water from the spring in Castagna.\n\nPart Two: Marguerite, 1927-1973\n\nCarla's daughter Marguerite is restless, searching for something to give her life meaning. After college she travels to Italy, where she meets Alberto Morosini, a poet some twenty years her senior who comes from an old, established Venetian family. Planning to live together as artists, they marry and have two daughters, moving several times between Italy and the United States. While Alberto focuses on his successful writing career, Marguerite's attention is scattered. At forty-two she has an affair with a writer her own age, and uses her literary connections to try to help his career.\n\nPart Three: Tina, 1950-\n\nMarguerite's daughter Tina is living in New York when she receives the news that her mother has died in a car accident. She flies to Rome to be with her family. While still grieving her mother, she learns she is pregnant by her feckless American boyfriend, and endures a painful, illegal abortion. She begins spending time with Jason, a law student from an old, established New England family who is staying in Rome with his diplomat father. (Although Jason is a \"Wasp,\" Tina thinks he looks Italian; his physical appearance echoes that of Giosuè in Part One.)\n\nTina struggles to choose a path in life. While touring southern Italy with Jason, she runs off with another man and visits her great grandmother's hometown. Unbeknownst to her, she ends up speaking to a descendant of Giosuè, who made the tin heart which she carries with her as a memento. She returns to the United States to continue her classical studies. One day she visits the Statue of Liberty, and in the Museum of Immigration, sees a beautiful Calabrian bedspread. Not realizing it once belonged to her great grandmother, Tina wishes Umbertina had brought something like that with her to America to pass down to her descendants.\n\nEventually Tina reunites with Jason and they become engaged. Unlike her mother, Tina is now able to commit herself as fully to a career as her fiancé. On a visit to Jason's family home in Wellfleet, Massachusetts—not far from where an Italian bark, the \"Castagna\", was shipwrecked in 1914—she plants rosemary.\n\nBarolini began writing about her grandmother in 1969, after traveling to Calabria to research her family's roots. She wrote \"Umbertina\" in 1976 after receiving a National Endowment for the Arts fellowship.\n\n\"Umbertina\" was first published in hardcover by Seaview Books in 1979 and marketed as a \"family saga.\" Sales were respectable, but within three years the book was out of print. A paperback edition published by Bantam in 1982 was packaged in the style of a romance novel; the cover featured \"three women, hair streaming romantically.\" It was republished by Ayer in 1988, but the type was so small it was nearly illegible. Another paperback edition was published by the Feminist Press in 1999, with an Afterword by Edvige Giunta. An Italian-language edition was published by Avagliano in 2001.\n\nThe novel was initially ignored by reviewers for mainstream publications such as the \"New York Times.\" Edvige Giunta attributes this partly to mistakes made by the publishers, and partly to \"a literary establishment unable to conceive of a novel dealing with women's experience or Italian American experience as worthy of serious critical attention or a lasting place in American letters.\" \n\n\"Umbertina\" is \"the first Italian-American novel by a woman to deal explicitly with the intertwining themes of gender and ethnic identity.\" It is also unusual in that it details the everyday struggles of working-class immigrants, which have traditionally been omitted from official historical narratives. Literature professor Fred Gardaphé calls it a \"seminal\" work. Barolini herself describes it as primarily a feminist novel rather than an ethnic novel. It has been included in the curriculum of various university courses in women's studies and Italian-American literature. Barolini received the Americans of Italian Heritage award for \"Umbertina\" in 1984 and the Premio Acerbi, an Italian literary prize, in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25250338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25250338", "title": "Unsimulated sex", "text": "Unsimulated sex\n\nIn the film industry, unsimulated sex is the presentation in a film of sex scenes where the actors engage in an actual sex act, and are not just miming or simulating the actions. At one time in the United States such scenes were restricted by law and self-imposed industry standards such as the Motion Picture Production Code. Films showing explicit sexual activity were confined to privately distributed underground films, such as stag films or \"porn loops\". Beginning in the late 1960s, most notably with \"Blue Movie\" by Andy Warhol, mainstream movies began pushing boundaries in terms of what was presented on screen. Although the vast majority of sexual situations depicted in mainstream cinema are simulated (in early pornography, the main actors engaged in simulated sex, with inserts placed in the film), on rare occasions actors engage in real sex. The difference between these films and pornography is that, while such scenes might be considered erotic, the intent of these films is not solely pornographic.\n\nNotable examples include two of the eight \"Bedside\"-films and the six \"Zodiac\"-films from the 1970s, all of which were produced in Denmark and had many pornographic sex scenes, but were nevertheless considered mainstream films (they all had mainstream casts and crews, and premiered in mainstream cinemas). The last of these films, \"Agent 69 Jensen i Skyttens tegn\", was made in 1978. From the end of the 1970s until the late 1990s it was rare to see hardcore scenes in mainstream cinema, but this changed with the success of Lars von Trier's \"The Idiots\" (1998), which heralded a wave of art-house films with explicit content, such as \"Romance\" (1999), \"Baise-moi\" (2000), \"Intimacy\" (2001), Vincent Gallo's \"The Brown Bunny\" (2003), and Michael Winterbottom's \"9 Songs\" (2004). Some simulated sex scenes are sufficiently realistic that critics mistakenly believe that they are real, such as the cunnilingus scene in the 2006 film \"Red Road\".\n\nIn an interview after the release of his film \"Love\", when asked why audiences want to see realistic portrayals of sex, Gaspar Noé suggested it's really about power structures: \"In most societies whether they’re western or not, people want to control the sexual behaviour or to organise it in a precise context. Sex is like a danger zone. Sometimes class barriers fall down and it scares a lot of people. It’s about states controlling their systems, like religion.\"\n\nJames Franco has cited \"aesthetics and personal reasons\" for why he worked on \"Interior. Leather Bar.\" (2013): <br>\n\nA few directors have openly discussed or written about the technical problems inherent in filming of actual sexual acts, particularly with actors or actresses who have never performed such acts on film. In an interview with \"BlackBook\", Gaspar Noé acknowledges that it is difficult for several reasons: an actor may not be able to get or maintain an erection in the presence of even a small crew, or on camera; either of the partipants may have a current partner. \"So I've decided that the best way to show real sex is to cast two single people who used to be a couple.\"\nPrior to the advent of home video, a number of hardcore pornography films were released to mainstream cinemas. In most cases, scenes of penetration were either cut out or replaced with alternate shots. One exception to this was \"Deep Throat\", which was released uncensored.\n\nExamples of this type of hybrid release include \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1976), shot as X-rated, but first released as an R-rated version—afterwards, the uncut version was released; \"Café Flesh\" (1982)—the R-rated version of this science fiction porn film was released to mainstream cinemas; \"Stocks and Blondes\" (1984), originally available as \"Wanda Whips Wall Street\"; and \"Droid\" (1988), originally released as \"Cabaret Sin\" in 1987.\n\nThe following mainstream films have scenes with verified real sexual activity, meaning actors or actresses are filmed engaging in actual coitus or performing related sexual acts such as fellatio and cunnilingus.\nThis list does not include , which may contain unsimulated sexual activity. For example, \"Inside Deep Throat\" contains approximately 20 seconds of unsimulated fellatio.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "18511470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18511470", "title": "Winding machine", "text": "Winding machine\n\nA winding machine or winder is a machine for wrapping string, twine, cord, thread, yarn, rope, wire, ribbon, tape, etc. onto a spool, bobbin, reel, etc.\n\nWinders are used heavily in textile manufacturing, especially in preparation to weaving where the yarn is wound onto a bobbin and then used in a shuttle. Ball winders are another type of winder that wind the yarn up from skein form into balls. Ball winders are commonly used by knitters and occasionally spinners.\n\nWinders have a center roll (a bobbin, spool, reel, belt-winding shell, etc.) on which the material is wound up. Often there are metal bars that travel through the center of the roll, and are shaped according to their intended purpose. A circular bar facilitates greater speed, while a square bar provides a greater potential for torque. Edge sensors are used to sense how full the center roll is. They are mounted on adjustable slides to accommodate many different widths, as the width increases as the center roll is filled. The sensitivity of the sensor depends on the required speed of operation.\n\nWinding machines are classified based on the materials they are winding, some major types are\n\nOn the basis of working the winders are classified as follows\n\nThe benefits of automatic splicing add up to significantly increased productivity, greater quality control and reduced waste. It consists of a tail grabber and automatic diameter calculated splice initiation technique. The precision shear wheel and anvil mechanism guarantees a clean cut and no overlap. The splicing technique is divided into two major categories based on the type of joint, they are, Butt splicing where adhesives are used and Lap splicing:lap joint by means of applying heat and pressing it.\n\nSome winders have sensors built in to monitor the web (thread, wire, etc. that is being wound). There are three common types of sensors:\n\nAn optical sensor is placed above or under the web to be controlled. Standard sensors are not affected by dirt, steam or temperatures up to 160 degrees Celsius. Optical sensors work by sending a beam of light at the web, and seeing if the light is reflected or not.\n\nIt consists of a knife blade which is used to cut the web when the maximum roll diameter is reached. The knife blade is actuated either by means of pneumatic or electrical actuators.IT CO\n\nThe rolls have to be changed when the maximum roll diameter is reached this can be achieved either manually or automatically. The unit consists of a regulating circuit, which detects the web speed and speed of the carriage. The regulator sets the web speed and speed of the carriage by comparing the web tension with an adjustable web tension set point.\nModern automated winders are capable of reasonable high speed roll set change and core introduction, \nTissue winders making toilet roll can change over at running speed,\nPaper and board winders need to stop the winding process to cut the sheet and glue the paper on to a new wind up core,\nTop line winders introduce the paper core through a maintenance pit down stairs, with web interruption time as low as 15 seconds, \nMore traditional, winders actual web stopped set turn out change time can be as low as 45 seconds,\nthese modern change efficiency upgrades, make it possible for mills to maintain production over one winder for each paper machine and still carry out maintenance with out risk to product quality.\n\n"}
{"id": "50623225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50623225", "title": "Wow Philippines", "text": "Wow Philippines\n\nWow Philippines (stylized as WOW Philippines) was a tourism marketing campaign used to promote Tourism in the Philippines. The name of the campaign also served as the tagline of the campaign.\n\nThen Department of Tourism secretary Richard Gordon conceptualized the tagline \"Wow Philippines\" himself in 2002. The government agency then has limited budget allotted for advertising. The promotional campaign was based on the 24-month Visit Philippines 2003 campaign by the World Tourism Organization which aimed to encourage the Filipino diaspora to visit tourism sites in the Philippines.\n\nThe Department of Tourism (DOT) then commissioned advertising firm BBDO Guerrero for the implementation of the campaign. This includes the coming up with promotional materials and the addition of \"More than the Usual\" as a sub slogan.Also the \"Wow\" of the campaign slogan is meant to be capitalized which doubles as an acronym. The meaning of the acronym varies depending on the usage of the slogan according to the government agency. The following are some possible meanings given by the DOT are the following:\n\n\nFrom 2007 to 2012, foreign visits in the Philippines increased from about 3 million to 4.27 million. The campaign also generated 2800-4000 jobs.\n\nIn 2003, the Wow Philippines campaign was named as the Best Marketing Effort of a National Tourism Organization in the overall category in 2002 at the Internationale Tourismus Bourse.\n\n"}
{"id": "5527610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5527610", "title": "Zi wei dou shu", "text": "Zi wei dou shu\n\nZi Wei Dou Shu (Purple Star Astrology) is a form of fortune-telling in Chinese culture. It remains one of the most well-respected processes for laying out \"The Destiny Path\" or \"Fate\".\n\n\nIn ancient times, Zi Wei Dou Shu was restricted to the exclusive and private consultation of the Imperial Emperors only as Zi Wei Dou Shu could provide an elaborate reading too detailed and classified. Thus, imperial astronomers used Zi Wei Dou Shu to delineate charts for the Emperor as the Emperor's destiny is bridged to and affects the destiny of his kingdom and dynasty. \nAmong the stars used in the Zi Wei Dou Shu system, there is one main star while other stars revolve around it. The star is named the “Emperor Star” – Purple Star (紫微) which also represents the ruler (Emperor) of the kingdom. \nZi Wei Dou Shu has been used by professional consultants and practitioners for the past 1000 years to determine one's destiny and as remedial Feng Shui strategies. Zi Wei Dou Shu has its unique feng shui philosophies and principles and is known as the “personalized feng shui”.\n\nZi Wei Dou Shu was created by a Taoist named Lu Chun Yang (呂純陽) during the Tang Dynasty. It was further developed by Chen Xi Yi (陳希夷) during the Song Dynasty and later on by Luo Hong Xian (羅洪先) during the Ming Dynasty to its present-day form. Its exact origin, however, is still debated among the different schools, and should not be taken as a guaranteed historical context.\n\nChinese Astrology has always been closely intertwined with Astronomy. Gifted astronomers and astrologers were recruited as officials to work in Imperial Courts during the dynastic eras. In those days most astrological charts were crafted solely for the emperor, as his personal fate had a direct bearing on his kingdom. The court astrologers also played an important role in determining the successor to the throne.\n\nAstrologers observed the stars and noticed that among so many stars, only one was seemingly stationary while the rest revolved around it. This star was named the \"Emperor Star\" (紫微星)--the celestial equivalent of the Emperor and known in the West as Polaris.\n\nAs with all other forms of fortune-telling, the Chinese do not generally see astrology as an infallible guide as to what will happen, but more as a form of forecasting in detail. Destiny and fortune are structurally complex and are unlikely to be changed by a single element. An overly simplistic application of - for example - changing one's lucky colors and numbers is not expected to affect or change one's destiny in any significant way. Knowledge about events to come may allow one to gauge the situation and make decisions from a position of strength. Zi Wei Dou Shu approaches the world and events from the idea that to view things in their proper context, it is important to recognise the \"spiritual dynamic of the universe\" to find the pattern of change that leads to \"fundamental truth\".\n\nLineage in Zi Wei Dou Shu\n\nThere are two lineages in Zi Wei Dou Shu. There is the San He lineage, and the Si Hua lineage. The Si Hua lineage is not commonly available to learn, and there are not many practitioners worldwide. However, there is currently an app book written in English exclusively for the Si Hua lineage. The Si Hua Flying technique is a powerful system in decoding the exact timing and causes of events. \n\nThe 12 Palaces, or Shí Èr Gōng (十二宫) are arranged and plotted in an anti-clockwise rotation.\n\n\nThe 14 Major Stars:\n\n\n\nBook Title: The Emperor's Stargate Author: Alexandra Harteam \n\nSi Hua Zi Wei Dou Shu Blog post\n"}
{"id": "11278713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11278713", "title": "Árran (Sami publication)", "text": "Árran (Sami publication)\n\nÁrran is an English language quarterly of Sami culture and news. The editor of \"Árran\" is Evelyn Ashford, successor to long-time editor Arden Johnson. \"Árran\" was founded by the late Mel Olsen in 1995. Published by the Sami Siida of North America (SSNA), the newsletter is by and for Sami North Americans and friends. \"Árran\" headquarters are in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The SSNA council makes up the editorial advisory board. \n\nThe word \"árran\" refers to the fire in the center of the lavvu, the iconic tent-symbol of Sami cultures. Issues contain articles relating to Sami culture and identity, poetry, and news from Sápmi by contributors from Sápmi and North America. \"Árran\" also has a companion blog, currently under a remodeling program.\n\n\n"}
