{"id": "11485021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485021", "title": "A174 road", "text": "A174 road\n\nThe A174 is a major road in North Yorkshire, England. It runs from Thornaby-on-Tees to Whitby.\n"}
{"id": "381257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381257", "title": "Aiwo District", "text": "Aiwo District\n\nAiwo (rarely Aiue, in earlier times \"Yangor\") is a district in the Pacific country of Nauru. Jarrit Morpak is the city's mayor, elected in 2008. It belongs to Aiwo Constituency.\n\nIt is located in the west of the island. It covers an area of and has a population of 1,300. It is sometimes called the unofficial capital city of Nauru; Nauru does not have an official capital city, and it is more common for Yaren to be cited as such.\n\nThe majority of Nauruan industry is located in Aiwo. Among the facilities in Aiwo are:\n\n\nThe district returns two members to the Parliament of Nauru in Yaren.\n\nThe two diplomatic missions on the island, the Australian High Commission and the Republic of China (Taiwan) Embassy are in Aiwo District.\n\nThe primary and secondary schools serving all of Nauru are Yaren Primary School in Yaren District (years 1-3), Nauru Primary School in Meneng District (years 4-6), Nauru College in Denigomodu District (years 7-9), and Nauru Secondary School (years 10-12) in Yaren District.\n\nAiwo Primary School previously operated in Aiwo. As of April 2002 it served students from all parts of Nauru in years 3 and 4.\n\nUniversity of the South Pacific Nauru Campus was previously in Aiwo District; it moved to Yaren District in 2018.\n\nRené Harris, who served a number of terms as President of Nauru, represented Aiwo in Parliament for many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "30518849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30518849", "title": "Alfred Colpaert", "text": "Alfred Colpaert\n\nAlfred Colpaert is professor in physical geography at the Department of Geographical and Historical Studies of the University of Eastern Finland. He was born in 1957 in Kruiningen, the Netherlands and studied physical geography at the University of Utrecht and geography at the University of Oulu, Finland. He has a PhD in Geography (Oulu 1998) and a Docentship in Geoinformatics (Oulu 2000).\n\nColpaert has held various positions at the Department of Geography of the University of Oulu, Finland and the Finnish Game and Fisheries Research Institute. Since 2004 he has been full professor in physical geography at the University of Joensuu, and University of Eastern Finland since 2010. From January 2011 he has been head of Department.\n\nAlfred Colpaert’s main interests are in physical geography and geoinformatics. He has studied pastures and pastoral systems in northern Finland, Tibet and the Caprivi area in Namibia. He was involved in mapping the reindeer pastures of northern Finland using satellite remote sensing. Various projects funded by the Finnish Academy of Sciences in Namibia and Lapland and the Arsgisip EU-funded project (remote sensing and hydrological modeling). He also took part in the Socrates GI Curriculum development project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45296501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45296501", "title": "Anglo-French Survey (1784–1790)", "text": "Anglo-French Survey (1784–1790)\n\nThe Anglo-French Survey (1784–1790) was the survey to measure the relative situation of Greenwich Observatory and the Paris Observatory. The English operations, executed by William Roy, consisted of the measurements of bases at Hounslow Heath (1784) and Romney Marsh (1787), the measurements of the angles of the triangles (1787–1788) and finally the calculation of all the triangles (1788–1790). The survey is very significant as the first precise survey within Britain, and the forerunner of the work of the Ordnance Survey which was founded in 1791, one year after Roy's death.\n\nLate in life, when he was 57, Roy was granted the opportunity to establish his lasting reputation in the world of geodesy. The opening came from a completely unexpected direction. In 1783 the Comte de Cassini addressed a memoir to the Royal Society in which he expressed grave reservations of the measurements of latitude and longitude which had been undertaken at Greenwich Observatory. He suggested that the correct values might be found by combining the Paris Observatory figures with a precise trigonometric survey between the two observatories. (The French surveys had already been carried out in the course of the preparation of the .) This criticism was roundly rejected by Nevil Maskelyne who was convinced of the accuracy of the Greenwich measurements but, at the same time, he realised that Cassini's memoir provided a means of promoting government funding for a survey which would be valuable in its own right. Approval was granted and Sir Joseph Banks, president of the Royal Society, proposed that Roy should lead the project. Roy gladly accepted and set matters in motion by submitting to the Crown a grossly-underestimated budget for manpower (by far the largest element) and new precision instruments to be constructed by Jesse Ramsden. The whole project is described in Roy's three large articles in the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London\" in 1785, 1787 and 1790.\nThere are shorter accounts of the project in the \"History of the Royal Engineers\" by Porter \nand in every history of the Ordnance Survey, particularly the book by Seymour \nand also that by Owen and Pilbeam.\n\nThe first task of any survey is to establish a baseline location and, after a search by Roy and three other members of the Royal Society on 16 April, they fixed upon Hounslow Heath, an approximately level piece of ground between King's Arbour (now located within the confines of Heathrow airport) and Hampton Poor-house just over five miles to the south-east. The direction of the baseline was first chosen to suit the lie of the land, but it was seen to almost coincide with the telescopic view toward the steeple of All Saints' church in Banstead, approximately 12 miles away, and the baseline was therefore made to coincide exactly with that direction: it is shown as a dashed line on the map of the survey, below.\n\nThe ground was cleared of bushes and a preliminary measurement of the line was carried out with a 100 ft. steel chain of 100 links prepared by Jesse Ramsden. It was the intention to measure more accurately with a set of three calibrated deal rods about 20 ft. in length. Three rods at a time were supported on trestles and the ends aligned to an accuracy of a thousandth part of an inch. The first rod was then carried to the end of the third, an operation to be repeated 1370 times. Unfortunately the deal rods had to be abandoned because of their susceptibility to lengthen and shorten in wet weather, and they were replaced by one inch thick glass rods of the same length. The rods were not affected by humidity but it was important to correct for thermal expansion. There was also a correction to sea level since the calculation of the survey was referred to that height. The final measurement gives the length of the base as 27404.01 ft. The measurement of the baseline to such a high standard of precision was a remarkable achievement and in recognition the Royal Society awarded Roy the Copley Medal in 1785.\nIn 1784 the ends of the baseline were marked by the central axes of two vertical wooden pipes over which the theodolite was centred for measurements from the base: the pipes could also support flagstaffs as markers when the base was sighted from other stations (or one end from another). After the resurvey in 1791 the pipes were replaced by cannons which are still in place although it is certain that the cannons have been disturbed and slightly moved over the intervening years. The modern locations of the southeast end points is in Roy Grove, Hampton. The northwest end at Heathrow Airport is situated on the northern perimeter road. \nPlaques adjacent to the cannons read as follows:\n\nOnce the baseline had been measured Roy was keen to press on with the triangulation as soon as possible but he was thwarted by Ramsden's failure to produce the new theodolite. This led to a certain amount of acrimony and Roy went so far as to accuse Ramsden of being remiss and dilatory—in \npublic and in his next report in the Philosophical Transactions\n\nThe 1787 report is witness to how Roy occupied himself whilst waiting for the theodolite. The first section deals with proposed route of the survey. Greater accuracy is achieved if the triangles are kept regular in shape, and the figure shows that most are close to equilateral, with departures only where the triangles step down in size toward the bases and where they have to stretch over the Channel. Typical sides are about 20 miles but the lines which cross the Channel are up to 45 miles in length.\n\nThe second part of the report is a thorough examination of the results of Cassini's survey of France between Paris and Dunkirk. The third part includes a comparison of seven models for the Figure of the Earth, deduced from both meridian arcs and pendulum experiments, and he goes on to propose further meridian arcs in India and Russia, as well as an arc of longitude at the equator. Finally he makes a plea for the continuation of the survey to the rest of Great Britain.\n\nRamsden's theodolite was eventually delivered in the summer of 1787, and all haste was made to complete as much as possible before winter. The first triangles were from the ends of the base to Hanger Hill Tower in Ealing and St Ann's Hill in Chertsey, with an additional sight to Windsor Castle from the NW end only. Thus two angles were measured at the SE end of the base and four angles at the NW end. The theodolite was then moved to Hanger Hill where the ends of the base line were observed from the other direction and another three new sight lines established to Greenwich Observatory, Upper Norwood and Hundred Acres (Banstead). In this way the mesh of triangles was extended down towards the coast where sights could be made on some of the French stations that had been measured in the course of Cassini's triangulation. The figure below shows the actual triangulation, the relief making the structure more understandable. Note the second base at Romney Marsh. By comparing the measured length with the length as calculated through the triangulation mesh it was possible to assess the accuracy of the framework.\nThe process seems deceptively simple but it demanded much in the way of perseverance and organisation. Once the theodolite was on a station, signal men were sent to all the other stations that were to be observed from that point, typically five or six stations but as many as 10 in the case of Fairlight Head. For short distances a simple flagstaff would suffice but for the longer sights it was necessary to use lights at night. The brightest lights, so called \"white lights,\" were obtained by burning an incendiary mixture that lasted for a short time only. The cross-channel use of these lights entailed careful timing arrangements which could take into account the vagaries of the weather and pocket watches. At many stations, for the theodolite or signals, it was necessary to raise the instrument on a portable tower over 30 ft. high. The tower had two components: an inner frame supported the instrument and the outer supported the observers, thus minimising the disturbance to the instrument.\nThe final report of 1790 presents figures for the distance between Paris and Greenwich as well as the precise latitude, longitude and height of the British triangulation stations. Throughout the survey Roy took every opportunity to fix the position of as many secondary landmarks as possible in the hope that they would be used as a basis for future topographic surveys from which new maps could be prepared for the counties of Middlesex, Surrey, Kent and Sussex. In fact these counties were re-surveyed during the course of the Principal Triangulation of Great Britain which commenced in 1791, one year after he died. At the time of his death he was correcting the final proofs of his report and the work was brought to a conclusion by Isaac Dalby, a senior civilian employee of the Board of Ordnance who had organised the calculations of the triangles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22411262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22411262", "title": "Angolan mopane woodlands", "text": "Angolan mopane woodlands\n\nAngolan mopane woodlands are situated in southwestern Angola, extending into northern Namibia. This ecosystem surrounds Etosha Pan, which is considered a separate ecoregion. The mopane trees are the main type of vegetation.\n\nIn Angola the region mostly comprises the southern Cunene Province and in Namibia in the regions of Omusati, Oshana and the eastern inland arm of Kunene and areas of Oshikoto surrounding the Etosha Pan. The ecoregion includes the Cunene River which divides the two countries, and is one of the main sources of water in this dry region. The landscape is mainly flat. The rainy season is late summer.\n\nMopane is the distinctive feature, a single-stemmed tree in some places up to 10 m high and in some places not much more than a shrub. It has butterfly-shaped leaves and grows in dense thickets. In Etosha National Park in Namibia it is by the far the most common species.\n\nFauna include large mammals, many of which can be seen in Etosha National Park. The ecoregion contains elephants, who crash through the mopane trees and feed on their bark and leaves, black rhino, zebra, cheetahs, leopards, lions, and many antelopes. There are four mammals which are almost endemic to the ecoregion: Thomas's rock rat (\"Aethomys thomasi\"), heather shrew (\"Crocidura erica\"), blackish white-toothed shrew (\"Crocidura nigricans\"), and the black-faced impala. The mopane trees are the habitat of the mopane emperor moth (gonimbrasia belina), whose caterpillars feed on the leaves and are collected for food by people in the area. The area is rich in bird life, insects (particularly spiders) and reptiles including four endemic reptiles: \"Afrogecko ansorgii\", \"Coluber zebrinus\", Ruben's sand lizard (\"Pedioplanis rubens\"), and the skaapsteker snake (\"Psammophylax rhombeatus ocellatus\").\n\nThe woodlands are vulnerable to clearance for agriculture, firewood and timber while the grassland between the trees is being overgrazed. \nOn the Angolan side there are two national parks, Bicauri National Park and Mupa National Park but wildlife in these parks and Cunene Province as a whole has been severely damaged by the Angolan Civil War. \n\nMeanwhile in Namibia a huge game reserve contained a large proportion of this ecoregion until the park was broken up to create land for settlements in the 1960s. Part of the reserve remains protected as Etosha National Park and this includes a large area of mopane woodland but the widespread poaching and uncontrolled hunting which began with the dismantling of the reserve and the Namibian War of Independence still continues in Etosha and other private reserves in Namibia. There have also been outbreaks of anthrax in Etosha National Park. On the positive side firefighting efforts have allowed the park to become more wooded and thus support a larger elephant population.\n\nThe closest town to Etosha National Park is Tsumeb.\n\n"}
{"id": "34306826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34306826", "title": "Axel Hamberg", "text": "Axel Hamberg\n\nAxel Hamberg (17 January 1863 – 28 June 1933) was a Swedish mineralogist, geographer, explorer, photographer and professor in geography at the University of Uppsala 1907-1928.\n\nHe was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1905.\n\nThe Spitsbergen glacier Hambergbreen is named after him.\n\nThe Bjørnøya mountain of Hambergfjellet is named after him.\n\nThe Hamberg Glacier of South Georgia is named after him.\n\nThe mineral hambergite was named after him in 1890.\n"}
{"id": "30334911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30334911", "title": "Biodiversity of Cape Town", "text": "Biodiversity of Cape Town\n\nThe city of Cape Town lies within the Cape Floristic Kingdom (by far the smallest and most diverse of the earth’s six floristic kingdoms).\n\nCape Town is located within a Conservation International biodiversity hotspot and is home to a total of 19 different and distinct vegetation types. (This enormous variety is mainly because the city is uniquely located at the convergence point of a great many different soil types and micro-climates.)\nThese 19 vegetation types are mostly restricted to unusually small areas, and several are completely endemic to the city – occurring nowhere else in the world. Vegetation types include the following.\n\nOf the thousands of plant species that are indigenous to Cape Town, 190 are known to be endemic to the city - occurring nowhere else in the world. In addition, there are over a hundred animal species that are also restricted to the city. Endemic plant species include the following.\n\nMammals present in Cape Town, , including the following.\n\nFish present in Cape Town, , including the following.\nReptiles present in Cape Town, , including the following.\n\nAmphibians present in Cape Town, , including the following.\n\nInsects present in Cape Town, , including the following.\n\nFungi present in Cape Town, , including the following.\n\n"}
{"id": "14659380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14659380", "title": "Columnar jointing", "text": "Columnar jointing\n\nColumnar jointing is a geological structure where sets of intersecting closely spaced fractures, referred to as joints, result in the formation of a regular array of polygonal prisms, or columns. Columnar jointing occurs in many types of volcanic rocks and forms as the rock cools and contracts. Columnar jointing can occur in cooling lava flows and ashflow tuffs (ignimbrites), as well as in some shallow intrusions.\n\nThe columns can vary from 3 meters to a few centimeters in diameter, and can be as much as 30 meters tall. They are typically parallel and straight, but can also be curved and vary in diameter. Whereas an array of regular and straight columns is called a colonnade, an irregular array is termed an entablature. The number of sides of the individual columns can vary from 3 to 8, with 6 sides being the most common.\n\nSome famous locations in the United States where columnar jointing can be found are the Devils Tower in Wyoming, the Devils Postpile in California and the Columbia River flood basalts in Oregon, Washington and Idaho. Other famous places include the Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland and Fingal's Cave on the island of Staffa, Scotland.\n\nThe Devils Tower in Wyoming in the United States is about 40 million years old and high. Geologists agree that the rock forming the Devils Tower solidified from an intrusion but it has not been established whether the magma from this intrusion ever reached the surface. Most columns are 6-sided, but 4, 5, and 7-sided ones can also be found.\n\nThe Giant's Causeway (Irish: \"Clochán An Aifir\") on the north Antrim coast of Northern Ireland was created by volcanic activity 60 million years ago, and consists of over 40,000 columns. According to a legend, the giant Finn McCool created the Giant's Causeway, as a causeway to Scotland.\n\nSounkyo Gorge, a part of the town of Kamikawa, Hokkaido, Japan, features a 24-kilometer stretch of columnar jointing, which is the result of an eruption of the Daisetsuzan Volcanic Group 30,000 years ago.\n\nThe late Cretaceous Deccan Traps of India constitute one of the largest volcanic provinces of Earth, and examples of columnar jointing can be found in St. Mary's Island in the state of Karnataka.\n\nThe columnar jointed sandstone of the \"HaMinsara\" (Carpentry Shop) in the makhtesh (erosion cirque) of Makhtesh Ramon, Negev desert, Israel.\n\nSeveral exposures of columnar jointing have been discovered on the planet Mars by the High Resolution Imaging Science Experiment (HiRISE) camera, which is carried by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27986015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27986015", "title": "Concentric crater fill", "text": "Concentric crater fill\n\nA concentric crater fill is a landform where the floor of a crater is mostly covered with a large number of parallel ridges. It is common in the mid-latitudes of Mars, and is widely believed to be caused by glacial movement. Areas on Mars called Deuteronilus Mensae and Protonilus Mensae contain many examples of concentric crater fill.\n\nConcentric crater fill, like lobate debris aprons and lineated valley fill, is believed to be ice-rich. Sometimes boulders are found on concentric crater fill; it is believed they fell off the crater wall, then were transported away from the wall with the movement of the glacier. Erratics on Earth were carried by similar means.\n\nHigh resolution pictures taken with HiRISE reveal that some of the surfaces of concentric crater fill are covered with strange patterns called closed-cell and open-cell brain terrain. The terrain resembles a human brain. It is believed to be caused by cracks in the surface accumulating dust and other debris, together with ice sublimating from some of the surfaces. The cracks are the result stress from gravity and seasonal heating and cooling.\n\n"}
{"id": "35367131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35367131", "title": "Dutch Slave Coast", "text": "Dutch Slave Coast\n\nThe Dutch Slave Coast (Dutch: \"Slavenkust\") refers to the trading posts of the Dutch West India Company on the Slave Coast, which lie in contemporary Ghana, Benin, Togo and Nigeria. The primary purpose of the trading post was to supply slaves for the plantation colonies in the Americas. Dutch involvement on the Slave Coast started with the establishment of a trading post in Offra in 1660. Later, trade shifted to Ouidah, where the English and French also had a trading post. Political unrest caused the Dutch to abandon their trading post at Ouidah in 1725, now moving to Jaquim, at which place they built Fort Zeelandia. By 1760, the Dutch had abandoned their last trading post in the region.\n\nThe Slave Coast was settled from the Dutch Gold Coast, on which the Dutch were based in Elmina. During its existence, the Slave Coast held a close relationship to that colony.\n\nAccording to various sources, the Dutch West India Company began sending servants regularly to the Ajaland capital of Allada from 1640 onward. The Dutch had in the decades before begun to take an interest in the Atlantic slave trade due to their capture of northern Brazil from the Portuguese. Willem Bosman writes in his \"Nauwkeurige beschrijving van de Guinese Goud- Tand- en Slavekust\" (1703) that Allada was also called Grand Ardra, being the larger cousin of Little Ardra, also known as Offra. From 1660 onward, Dutch presence in Allada and especially Offra became more permanent. A report from this year asserts Dutch trading posts, apart from Allada and Offra, in Benin City, Grand-Popo, and Savi.\n\nThe Offra trading post soon became the most important Dutch office on the Slave Coast. According to a 1670 report, annually 2,500 to 3,000 slaves were transported from Offra to the Americas and writing of the 1690s, Bosman commented of the trade at Fida, \"markets of men are here kept in the same manner as those of beasts are with us.\" Numbers of slaves declined in times of conflict. From 1688 onward, the struggle between the Aja king of Allada and the peoples on the coastal regions, impeded the supply of slaves. The Dutch West India Company chose the side of the Aja king, causing the Offra office to be destroyed by opposing forces in 1692. After this debacle, Dutch involvement on the Slave Coast came more or less to a halt.\n\nDuring his second voyage to Benin, David van Nyendael visited the king of Benin in Benin City. His detailed description of this journey was included as an appendix to Willem Bosman's \"Nauwkeurige beschrijving van de Guinese Goud- Tand- en Slavekust\" (1703). His description of the kingdom remains valuable as one of the earliest detailed descriptions of Benin.\n\nOn the instigation of Governor-General of the Dutch Gold Coast Willem de la Palma, Jacob van den Broucke was sent in 1703 as \"opperkommies\" (head merchant) to the Dutch trading post at Ouidah, which according to sources was established around 1670. Ouidah was also the place where English and French traded slaves, making this place the likely candidate for the new main trading post on the Slave Coast.\n\nPolitical unrest was also the reason for the Ouidah office to close in 1725. The company this time moved their headquarters to Jaquim, situated more easterly. The head of the post, Hendrik Hertog, had a reputation for being a successful slave trader. In an attempt to extend his trading area, Hertog negotiated with local tribes and mingled in local political struggles. He sided with the wrong party, however, leading to a conflict with Director-General Jan Pranger and to his exile to the island of Appa in 1732. The Dutch trading post on this island was extended as the new centre of slave trade. In 1733, Hertog returned to Jaquim, this time extending the trading post into Fort Zeelandia. The revival of slave trade at Jaquim was only temporary, however, as his superiors at the Dutch West India Company noticed that Hertog's slaves were more expensive than at the Gold Coast. From 1735, Elmina became the preferred spot to trade slaves.\n\n"}
{"id": "667009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667009", "title": "El Sendero Luminoso", "text": "El Sendero Luminoso\n\nEl Sendero Luminoso is the name of a rock climb at El Potrero Chico, Nuevo León, Mexico. A bigwall sport-route, El Sendero Luminoso rises over 1500 ft (~450 m) up the impressive front side of El Toro. It is one of the harder long routes in the area — 11 of its 15 pitches clock in at 5.12. The route was established by Jeff Jackson, Kurt Smith and Pete Peacock and is graded 5.12+ V (15 pitches).\n\nOn January 15, 2014, Alex Honnold became the first person to free-solo the route. He did so in a little over three hours.Source \n"}
{"id": "220358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220358", "title": "Free imperial city", "text": "Free imperial city\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, the collective term free and imperial cities (), briefly worded free imperial city (', ), was used from the fifteenth century to denote a self-ruling city that had a certain amount of autonomy and was represented in the Imperial Diet. An imperial city held the status of Imperial immediacy, and as such, was subordinate only to the Holy Roman Emperor, as opposed to a territorial city or town (') which was subordinate to a territorial prince – be it an ecclesiastical lord (prince-bishop, prince-abbot) or a secular prince (duke ('), margrave, count ('), etc.).\n\nThe evolution of some German cities into self-ruling constitutional entities of the Empire was slower than that of the secular and ecclesiastical princes. In the course of the 13th and 14th centuries, some cities were promoted by the emperor to the status of Imperial Cities ('; '), essentially for fiscal reasons. Those cities, which had been founded by the German kings and emperors in the 10th through 13th centuries and had initially been administered by royal/imperial stewards (\"\"), gradually gained independence as their city magistrates assumed the duties of administration and justice; some prominent examples are Colmar, Haguenau and Mulhouse in Alsace or Memmingen and Ravensburg in upper Swabia.\n\nThe Free Cities ('; ') were those, such as Basel, Augsburg, Cologne or Strasbourg, that were initially subjected to a prince-bishop and, likewise, progressively gained independence from that lord. In a few cases, such as in Cologne, the former ecclesiastical lord continued to claim the right to exercise some residual feudal privileges over the Free City, a claim that gave rise to constant litigation almost until the end of the Empire.\n\nOver time, the difference between Imperial Cities and Free Cities became increasingly blurred, so that they became collectively known as \"Free Imperial Cities\", or \"Free and Imperial Cities\", and by the late 15th century many cities included both \"Free\" and \"Imperial\" in their name. Like the other Imperial Estates, they could wage war, make peace, and control their own trade, and they permitted little interference from outside. In the later Middle Ages, a number of Free Cities formed City Leagues (\"\"), such as the Hanseatic League or the Alsatian , to promote and defend their interests.\n\nIn the course of the Middle Ages, cities gained, and sometimes — if rarely — lost, their freedom through the vicissitudes of power politics. Some favored cities gained a charter by gift. Others purchased one from a prince in need of funds. Some won it by force of arms during the troubled 13th and 14th centuries and others lost their privileges during the same period by the same way. Some cities became free through the void created by the extinction of dominant families, like the Swabian . Some voluntarily placed themselves under the protection of a territorial ruler and therefore lost their independence.\n\nA few, like Protestant , which in 1607 was annexed to the Catholic Duchy of Bavaria, were stripped by the Emperor of their status as a Free City — for genuine or trumped-up reasons. However, this rarely happened after the Reformation, and of the sixty Free Imperial Cities that remained at the Peace of Westphalia, all but the ten Alsatian cities (which were annexed by France during the late 17th century) continued to exist until the mediatization of 1803.\n\nThere were approximately four thousand towns and cities in the Empire, although around the year 1600 over nine-tenths of them had fewer than one thousand inhabitants. During the late Middle Ages, fewer than two hundred of these places ever enjoyed the status of Free Imperial Cities, and some of those did so only for a few decades. The military tax register (\"\") of 1521 listed eighty-five such cities, and this figure had fallen to sixty-five by the time of the Peace of Augsburg in 1555. From the Peace of Westphalia of 1648 to 1803, their number oscillated at around fifty.\n\nUnlike the Free Imperial Cities, the second category of towns and cities, now called \"territorial cities\" were subject to an ecclesiastical or lay lord, and while many of them enjoyed self-government to varying degrees, this was a precarious privilege which might be curtailed or abolished according to the will of the lord.\n\nReflecting the extraordinarily complex constitutional set-up of the Holy Roman Empire, a third category, composed of semi-autonomous cities that belonged to neither of those two types, is distinguished by some historians. These were cities whose size and economic strength was sufficient to sustain a substantial independence from surrounding territorial lords for a considerable time, even though no formal right to independence existed. These cities were typically located in small territories where the ruler was weak. They were nevertheless the exception among the multitude of territorial towns and cities. Cities of both latter categories normally had representation in territorial diets, but not in the Imperial Diet.\n\nFree imperial cities were not officially admitted as own Imperial Estates to the Imperial Diet until 1489, and even then their votes were usually considered only advisory (\"\") compared to the Benches of the electors and princes. The cities divided themselves into two groups, or benches, in the Imperial Diet, the Rhenish and the Swabian Bench.\n\nThe following list contains the 50 Free imperial cities that took part in the Imperial Diet of 1792. They are listed according to their voting order on the Rhenish and Swabian benches.\n\nThese same cities were among the 85 free imperial cities listed on the \"Reichsmatrikel\" of 1521 : the federal civil and military tax-schedule used for more than a century to assess the contributions of all the Imperial Estates in case of a war formally declared by the Imperial Diet. The military and monetary contribution of each city is indicated in parenthesis (for instance Cologne (30-322-600) means that Cologne had to provide 30 horsemen, 322 footmen and 600 gulden). These numbers are equivalent to one \"simplum\". If need be, the Diet could vote a second and a third \"simplum\", in which case each member's contribution was doubled or tripled. At the time, the Free imperial cities were considered wealthy and the monetary contribution of Nuremberg, Ulm and Cologne for instance were as high as that of the Electors (Mainz, Trier, Cologne, Palatinate, Saxony, Brandenburg) and the Dukes of Württemberg and of Lorraine.\n\nBy the time of the Peace of Westphalia, the cities constituted a formal third \"college\" and their full vote (\"\") was confirmed, although they failed to secure parity of representation with the two other colleges. To avoid the possibility that they would have the casting vote in case of a tie between the Electors and the Princes, it was decided that these should decide first and consult the cities afterward.\n\nDespite this somewhat unequal status of the cities in the functioning of the Imperial Diet, their full admittance to that federal institution was crucial in clarifying their hitherto uncertain status and in legitimizing their permanent existence as full-fledged Imperial Estates. Constitutionally, if in no other way, the diminutive Free Imperial City of Isny was the equal of the Margraviate of Brandenburg.\n\nHaving probably learned from experience that there was not much to gain from active, and costly, participation in the Imperial Diet's proceedings due to the lack of empathy of the princes, the cities made little use of their representation in that body. By about 1700, almost all the cities with the exception of Nuremberg, Ulm and Regensburg (where by then the Perpetual Imperial Diet was located), were represented by various Regensburg lawyers and officials who often represented several cities simultaneously. Instead, many cities found it more profitable to maintain agents at the Aulic Council in Vienna, where the risk of an adverse judgment posed a greater risk to city treasuries and independence.\n\nThe territory of most Free Imperial Cities was generally quite small but there were exceptions, such as Ulm, Nuremberg and Hamburg, which possessed substantial hinterlands or fiefs that comprised dozens of villages and thousands of subject peasants who did not enjoy the same rights as the urban population. At the opposite end, the authority of Cologne, Aachen, Worms, Goslar, Wetzlar, Augsburg and Regensburg barely extended beyond the city walls.\n\nThe constitution of Free and Imperial Cities was republican in form, but in all but the smallest cities, the city government was oligarchic in nature with a governing town council composed of an elite, hereditary patrician class, the so-called town council families (\"). They were the most economically significant burgher families who had asserted themselves politically over time.\n\nBelow them, with a say in the government of the city (there were exceptions, such as Nuremberg, where the patriciate ruled alone), were the citizens or burghers, the smaller, privileged section of the city's permanent population whose number varied according to the rule of citizenship of each city. To the common town dweller – whether he lived in a prestigious Free Imperial City like Frankfurt, Augsburg or Nuremberg, or in a small market town such as there were hundreds throughout Germany – attaining burgher status (') could be his greatest aim in life. The burgher status was usually an inherited privilege renewed pro-forma in each generation of the family concerned but it could also be purchased. At times, the sale of burgher status could be a significant item of town income as fiscal records show. The ' was local and not transferable to another city.\n\nThe burghers were usually the lowest social group to have political power and privilege within the Holy Roman Empire. Below them was the disenfranchised urban population, maybe half of the total in many cities, the so-called \"residents\" (\"\") or \"guests\": smaller artisans, craftsmen, street venders, day laborers, servants and the poor, but also those whose residence in the city was temporary, such as wintering noblemen, foreign merchants, princely officials, and so on.\n\nUrban conflicts in Free Imperial Cities, which sometimes amounted to class warfare, were not uncommon in the Early Modern Age, particularly in the 17th century (Lübeck, 1598–1669; Schwäbisch Hall, 1601–1604; Frankfurt, 1612–1614; Wezlar, 1612–1615; Erfurt, 1648–1664; Cologne, 1680–1685; Hamburg 1678–1693, 1702–1708). Sometimes, as in the case of Hamburg in 1708, the situation was considered sufficiently serious to warrant the dispatch of an Imperial commissionner with troops to restore order and negotiate a compromise and a new city constitution between the warring parties.\n\nThe number of Imperial Cities shrank over time until the Peace of Westphalia. There were more in areas that were very fragmented politically, such as Swabia and Franconia in the southwest, than in the North and the East where the larger and more powerful territories, such as Brandenburg and Saxony, were located, which were more prone to absorb smaller, weaker states.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th century, a number of Imperial Cities were separated from the Empire due to external territorial change. Henry II of France seized the Imperial Cities connected to the Three Bishoprics of Metz, Verdun and Toul. Similarly, Louis XIV seized many cities based on claims produced by his Chambers of Reunion. That way, Strasbourg and the ten cities of the were annexed. Also, when the Old Swiss Confederacy gained its formal independence from the Empire in 1648 (it had been de facto independent since 1499), the independence of the Imperial Cities of Basel, Bern, Lucerne, St. Gallen, Schaffhausen, Solothurn, and Zürich was formally recognized.\n\nWith the rise of Revolutionary France in Europe, this trend accelerated enormously. After 1795, the areas west of the Rhine were annexed to France by the revolutionary armies, suppressing the independence of Imperial Cities as diverse as Cologne, Aachen, Speyer and Worms. Then, the Napoleonic Wars led to the reorganization of the Empire in 1803 (see German Mediatisation), where all of the free cities but six — Hamburg, Bremen, Lübeck, Frankfurt, Augsburg, and Nuremberg — lost their independence and were absorbed into neighboring territories. Finally, under pressure from Napoleon, the Holy Roman Empire was dissolved in 1806. By 1811, all of the Imperial Cities had lost their independence — Augsburg and Nuremberg had been annexed by Bavaria, Frankfurt had become the center of the Grand Duchy of Frankfurt, a Napoleonic puppet state, and the three Hanseatic cities had been directly annexed by France as part of its effort to enforce the Continental Blockade against Britain. Hamburg and Lübeck with surrounding territories formed the département of , and Bremen the .\n\nWhen the German Confederation was established by the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Hamburg, Lübeck, Bremen, and Frankfurt were once again made Free Cities, this time enjoying total sovereignty as all the members of the loose Confederation. Frankfurt was annexed by Prussia in consequence of the part it took in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. The three other Free Cities became constituent states of the new German Empire in 1871 and consequently were no longer fully sovereign as they lost control over defence, foreign affairs and a few other fields. They retained that status in the Weimar Republic and into the Third Reich, although under Hitler it became purely notional. Due to Hitler's distaste for Lübeck and its liberal tradition, the need was devised to compensate Prussia for territorial losses under the Greater Hamburg Act, and Lübeck was annexed to Prussia in 1937. In the Federal Republic of Germany which was established after the war, Bremen and Hamburg became constituent states, a status which they retain to the present day. Berlin, which had never been a Free City in its history, also received the status of a state after the war due to its special position in divided post-war Germany.\n\nRegensburg was, apart from hosting the Imperial Diet, a most peculiar city: an officially Lutheran city that nevertheless was the seat of the Catholic prince-bishopric of Regensburg, its prince-bishop and cathedral chapter. The Imperial City also housed three Imperial abbeys: St. Emmeram, and . They were five immediate entities fully independent of each other existing in the same small city.\n\n"}
{"id": "59004095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59004095", "title": "Geology of Brazil", "text": "Geology of Brazil\n\nThe geology of Brazil includes very ancient craton basement rock from the Precambrian overlain by sedimentary rocks and intruded by igneous activity, as well as impacted by the rifting of the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nMuch of the rock underlying Brazil formed during the Precambrian, including the São Francisco Craton which outcrops in Minas Gerais and Bahia. In the Mesoproterozoic, the Rio de la Plata Craton (beneath southern Brazil), the vast Amazonia Craton, and the small São Luis Craton and sections of the Congo Craton which form the basement rock of much of Brazil were joined with Africa.\n\nEarlier, during the Archean, the São Francisco Craton developed between 3.2 and 2.6 billion years ago and grew as microcontinents collided with it, forming a series of mobile belts. The rocks became a craton, a section of stable continental crust by the end of the Trans-amazonian orogeny 1.8 billion years ago. The Borborema Province is beneath areas in the northeast, with Paleoproterozoic craton basement rock originally assembled around even older Archean rocks. It includes three zones. The Zona Transveral is in the central sub-province between the Pernambuco Shear Zone and the São Francisco Craton, displaying 2.2 billion year old gneiss, a suite of metavolcanic, metasedimentary and metaplutonic rocks as well as pluton formations from 640 to 540 million years ago. Uranium-lead dating has revealed two periods of acid magmatism in central Brazil, which produced the Goias tin province in granite and rhyolite.\n\nThe Pernambuco Shear Zone, or lineament, is a steeply-dipping ductile shear zone formed 600 million years ago during the Brasiliano orogeny. The zone has two 100 meter wide mylonite zones surrounding it. The Brasiliano orogeny was a South American extension of the major Pan-African orogeny during a period when the two continents were joined. The proto-South Atlantic opened and then closed with subduction by around 750 million years ago in the Katangan episode. High potassium feldspar granites, gabbro and diorite emplaced following the Pan-African orogeny 600 million years ago in Goias, in central Brazil.\n\nIn the northeast, the Brasiliano-Pan-African orogeny period led to reverse-type metamorphism, similar to what is now found in the Himalayas and thrust nappe formations 150 kilometers to the west.\n\nIn the southeast of the country, the remnants of two mountain belts record the collision between three sections of continental crust: the Brasilia, São Paulo and Vitoria plates.\n\nConvergent plate tectonics within the continent of Gondwana had a major influence in the Paleozoic. The Maranhao inctracratonic basin in Piaui and Maranhao, close to the mouth of the Amazon spans 600,000 square kilometers and filled with 2.5 kilometers of sandstone and shale from the Cambrian through the Devonian. The sequence is capped with Mississippian, continental, marine and fluvial sandstones.\n\nWith South America and Africa still conjoined, glaciers advanced across the region in the late Paleozoic. Glacial grooves and erosion marks scored the igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks in the Parana Basin. Diamictite and sandstone from this period are common in the southeast.\nThe early Permian Rio Bonito Formation in the Parana Basin contains fossil charcoal left by wildfires.\n\nDrilling in the Parana Basin and sampling of dikes around São Paulo revealed that the Serra Geral basalts and Kaoko basalts in Namibia both formed at the same time—121 million years ago—marking the beginning of the rifting open of the South Atlantic. Elsewhere, flood basalts and hypabyssal rocks from the Mesozoic mark the opening of the ocean in Maranha in the north.\nThe Pernambuco Shear Zone in the northeast reactivated during the breakup of the supercontinent Pangea in the Cretaceous. In the late Cretaceous, kimberlite, carbonatite, olivine melilitite and tuffaceous diatreme intruded the Sao Francisco Craton. Magmatic activity also took place in the Borborema Province in the northeast through the Jurassic and Cretaceous. For almost 50 million years after the region rifted apart from Africa, relatively little material eroded. But analysis of offshore sediments indicates a rapid increase at the boundary with Paleogene.\n\nContinued crustal extension tied to the opening of the Atlantic continued into the Cenozoic. Shear and extension related fractures control water well productivity in São Paulo. Along the coastline of Rio de Janeiro, an alkaline igneous complex intruded older Precambrian rocks with nepheline syenite, gabbro, shonkinite and clinopyroxenite. Alkali basalt erupted in Paraiba and Rio Grande do Norte. Brittle deformation and dike swarms accompanied the formation of the Ponta Grossa Arch in the Parana Basin, within sandstone and siltstone of the Piramboia and Botucatu formations and the Serra Geral Formation tholeiitic basalt. In the northeast, the 130 kilometer long Pereiro Massif was uplifted.\n\nIn the Paleogene, and in the early and late Miocene, sea levels dropped, recorded in sedimentary rocks in Para in the northeast. Simultaneously, turbidites flooded into the offshore Sao Tome deep sea basin.\n\nWithin the Holocene, a short run climate change associated with the draining of a glacial lake is recorded in Brazilian stalagmites, indicating an intense South American summer monsoon.\n\nFormed between the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, Brazil has numerous offshore basins that contain oil, related to the rifting of the Atlantic Ocean. The Sergipe-Alagoas Basin is an example of Aptian age shale, conglomerate and sandstone deposited in the final phase of rifting, while the Miranga, Aracas, Dom Joao and Agua Grande fields reflect mid-Mesozoic lake-bed shales, with high oil-content Jurassic sandstones above them.\n"}
{"id": "59013918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59013918", "title": "Geology of Honduras", "text": "Geology of Honduras\n\nThe geology of Honduras includes Paleozoic metamorphic rocks, such as the Cacaguapa Schist as its basement rocks. Together with Nicaragua and El Salvador it is underlain by the Chortis Block continental fragment. Currently, the Valle de Catacamas basin extends along the Guayape fault for 290 kilometers. Early tectonic research in 1977 suggested a possible origin for the underlying land in the Pacific Ocean rather than on the Caribbean Plate.\n\nThrough the Mesozoic, particularly the Cretaceous and into the Paleogene red beds deposited. Throughout the rest of the Paleogene, they became unconformably overlain by andesite lava, sedimentary rocks and rhyolite ignimbrite. In places such as the Plantares geothermal area in the Departamento de Copan, rainwater heats up in complex faults surrounding a graben formed in these rocks. In some cases faulting, like high-angle reverse faults associated with the Montana de Comayuga structural belt are related to the Laramide orogeny that built up the Rocky Mountains far to the north.\n\nAn extensive mapping project with keys in English was conducted by the University of Texas-Austin in the early 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "14941191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14941191", "title": "George Davidson (geographer)", "text": "George Davidson (geographer)\n\nGeorge Davidson (May 9, 1825 – December 2, 1911) was a geodesist, astronomer, geographer, surveyor and engineer in the United States.\n\nBorn on May 9, 1825, in England, he went to the U.S. in 1832 with his parents, who settled in Pennsylvania. He graduated at the Central High School in Philadelphia in 1845, standing first in his class.\nWhile a student, he had shown interest in scientific work, and had assisted Alexander D. Bache in his observations of the magnetic elements at Girard College. Upon his graduation in 1845, he began his career as clerk to Bache who was superindentent of the United States Coast Survey.\n\nFrom 1846 to 1850, Davidson was occupied in geodetic field work, and in astronomy, serving in the different states on the east coast of the United States. In 1850, he went to California under the auspices of the Coast Survey, and was for several years engaged in the determination of the latitude and longitude of prominent capes, bays, etc., and of the magnetic elements of the Pacific Coast, reporting also upon the proper locations for lighthouses. His work included a survey of Washington and Puget sounds, and he had charge of the main triangulation of the coast in the region of San Francisco. In 1853, he named a number of mountains in the Olympic Mountains: he named Mount Ellinor for \"Ellinor Fauntleroy\", who later became his wife, Mount Constance for Ellinor's older sister and The Brothers for her two brothers.\n\nFrom 1861 until 1867, he was again on the Atlantic seaboard, principally engaged in engineering work on coast and river defences. At one time, he was in command of the Coast Survey steamer “Vixen,” and later performed astronomical work along the eastern coast.\n\nIn 1866, he became chief engineer of an expedition for the survey of a ship canal across the Isthmus of Darien. In 1867, he was appointed to make a special examination and report upon the geography and resources of Alaska, pending its purchase; his published report and conferences with congressional committees influenced the passage of the bill. He was placed in charge, during 1867, of the work of the Coast Survey on the Pacific, planned work for the land parties from 1868 until 1875, and inspected all the fields of work. He traveled extensively in Egypt, China, India and Europe, for purposes of scientific study.\n\nFrom 1876 to 1886, he had charge of the main triangulation and astronomical work on the west coast; the records of the computing division showed that the results of his observations stood higher than any ever executed in America, Europe, or India, and they were characterized as “unique in the history of geodesy.” In 1881, Davidson twice measured the Yolo base line, one of the geodesic base lines that formed the foundation of triangulating distances in California. At that time, it was the longest base line yet attempted in trigonometrical operations, and the system of triangulation directly connected therewith was called in his honor the “Davidson quadrilaterals.” He also measured the Los Angeles base line three times in 1888-1889. He retired from the Coast Survey in 1895, after 50 years of service.\n\nHe founded the Davidson Observatory in San Francisco, which was the first astronomical observatory on the Pacific coast of North America, and in 1869 brought the Pacific geodetic of the coast survey in telegraphic longitude connection with Greenwich. His astronomical work includes the observation of the total solar eclipse under the 60th parallel, in 1869; determination of the 120th meridian, in 1873; charge of the U. S. transit of Venus expedition, in 1874; recovery of the transit of Venus station of 1709 in Lower California occupied by Auteroche de la Chappe; observation of the total solar eclipse of January 7, 1880; and in 1882 charge of the party to observe the transit of Venus in New Mexico.\n\nOther positions held by Davidson include president of the California Academy of Sciences from 1871 to 1887, Honorary Professor of Geodesy and Astronomy, and Regent of the University of California from 1877 to 1885. After his retirement from the Coast Survey, he became the first professor of geography at the University of California, Berkeley, and chaired that department from 1898 until his retirement in 1905, and remained an emeritus professor until his death. Davidson was one of 182 charter members of the Sierra Club in 1892 and served as a member of its board of directors from 1894 to 1910.\n\nHe contributed numerous papers to the California Academy of Sciences, and published a quantity of special reports contained in government publications.\n\nHe was awarded the Daly Medal by the American Geographical Society in 1908.\n\nThe Davidson Seamount off the coast of California, and Mount Davidson and Davidson Street in San Francisco are named for George Davidson. \n\nThe United States Coast and Geodetic Survey named two ships for him, the launch USC&GS \"Davidson\", in service from 1933 to 1935, and the coastal hydrographic survey ship USC&GS \"Davidson\" (CSS 31), which entered service in the Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1967 and then served in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration fleet as NOAAS \"Davidson\" (S 331) from 1970 to 1989.\n\nIn 1946, Davidson's daughter Ellinor established the George Davidson Medal, along with the American Geographical Society, to honor her father.\n\nDavidson's brother Thomas Davidson was a naval architect with the United States Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "53866391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53866391", "title": "Georgius Chrysococcas", "text": "Georgius Chrysococcas\n\nGeorgius Chrysococcas (also \"Chrysococca\"; \"Georgios Chrysokokkas\", fl. 1340s) was a Greek physician, geographer and astronomer. \nHe left a commentary astronomical system of medieval Persia, known as \"Syntaxis ton Person\" (Persian Compendium) recording a number of Perso-Arabic star and constellation names of c. the 11th century.\nThis text circulated in late Byzantine-era astronomy and was also received in European astronomy in the 15th century. \nA partial Latin translation of the work is extant in manuscript form under the title Expositio In Syntaxin Persarum, in copies of the 15th and 16th century, one of these in the hand of Joseph Justus Scaliger.\n\n"}
{"id": "16946382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16946382", "title": "GpsGate", "text": "GpsGate\n\nGpsGate is a software platform for Internet-based GPS tracking and GPS sharing. GpsGate is owned by Franson Technology AB, a company located in Stockholm, Sweden, specialized in GPS software development. Franson Technology AB was founded in 2004 by the current CEO Johan Franson.\n\nGPS software for Windows Vista/XP/2k/NT/ME/98, Windows Mobile, Pocket PC and Windows CE .NET. GpsGate Client is a client tool that is used to share a GPS between several applications using virtual COM ports, connect regular GPS to Garmin nRoute, connect a GPS direct to Google Earth and send GPS positions to a GpsGate Server. GpsGate Client also includes a GPS simulator and NMEA logger. Advanced users can use GpsGate Client to share a GPS over networks, HTTP, Bluetooth and ActiveSync and multiplex and split NMEA streams.\n\nIn January 2007 Franson Technology AB released GpsGate Server. GpsGate Server is a server platform for GPS tracking built around AJAX, XML/JSON, .NET and MySQL. GpsGate Server includes web applications for tracking of vehicles, people, animals and assets. GPS positions can be sent to GpsGate Server over HTTP and TCP/UDP using GPS tracking devices, mobile phones and GpsGate Clients. The server has support for multiple languages. GpsGate Server can be installed on a Windows server or subscribed to as a service from gpsgate.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31982834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31982834", "title": "Hagenhufendorf", "text": "Hagenhufendorf\n\nA Hagenhufendorf (German: also \"Bachhufendorf\", \"Hagenhufensiedlung\" or \"Hägerhufensiedlung\") is an elongated settlement, similar to a \"Reihendorf\", laid out along a road running parallel to a stream, whereby only one side of the road has houses, whilst on the opposite side are the hides (\"Hufen\"), the handkerchief-shaped farmer's fields of medieval origin, about 20 to 40 morgens in area. \n\nThis German term is probably derived from \"Hagenrecht\" (\"hedging right\"), i.e. the owner had a right to enclose the land he used. This went even further for the \"Hägerhufensiedlungen\", where there was a \"Hägerjunker\" in charge and special courts dealing with enclosure issues, the \"Hägergerichte\".\n\nThe \"Hagenhufensiedlung\" was a form of planned settlement typical of the High Middle Ages that consisted of individually owned strips of land that were strung together in a line. The hides were as wide as the farmstead, but could be several hundred metres long. \n\nThe enclosed plots were used as vegetable gardens and for keeping small animals. The stream at the back of the farmhouses supplied the necessary water. From this type of settlement, long linear villages developed like Auhagen, Wiedensahl, Isernhagen, Kathrinhagen or Rodewald in Lower Saxony. \"Hagenhufensiedlungen\" may be found from the Taunus region as far as Western Pomerania. The \"Hägerhufensiedlung\" is restricted to a region in the area of the Weser Uplands, Leine Uplands and Lippe. \n\nThe \"Hagenhufendörfer\" arose from the planned settlement of forested areas, predominantly in the 13th century, with the aim of clearing and cultivating the land. These villages had a lokator with a double hide (\"Doppelhufe\").\nThe \"Hägerhufensiedlungen\" go back to the 11th-century Eschershausen Treaty. Although they had no double hide and no lokator, they did have special enclosure rights (\"Hägerrecht\").\n\n\"Hagenhufendörfer\" are especially common in the Börde regions, on the North German Plain immediately north of the German Central Uplands. The best-known region, with many such villages, is the area around Stadthagen, which was itself founded as a planned town in the centre of the plain that was to be settled, between the Schaumburg Forest and Bückebergen. The \"Hägerhufensiedlungen\" of the fertile plain can no longer be made out in the countryside.\n\n"}
{"id": "6915830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6915830", "title": "India: A Million Mutinies Now", "text": "India: A Million Mutinies Now\n\nIndia: A Million Mutinies Now is a nonfiction book by V. S. Naipaul published in 1990. It is a travelogue written during the author's sojourn in his ancestral land of India. It was the third of Naipaul's acclaimed Indian trilogy which includes \"An Area of Darkness\" and \"\". True to his style, the narration is anecdotal, using examples and specificity in its descriptions.\n\nNaipaul expresses serious misgivings about Indian attitudes and the Indian way of life. On the other hand, Naipaul notes the economic growth and its associated emancipation of the various peoples of India. The title makes an analogy between the emancipation of millions and the Mutiny of 1857. The book is somewhat optimistic about the country and its peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "11104831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11104831", "title": "J. K. Gibson-Graham", "text": "J. K. Gibson-Graham\n\nJ. K. Gibson-Graham is a pen name shared by feminist economic geographers Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson. Their first book \"The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It)\" was published in 1996, followed by \"A Postcapitalist Politics\" in 2006. Julie Graham died on April 4, 2010 from complications from cancer. Katherine Gibson is currently professor at the Institute of Culture and Society, University of Western Sydney. The two women also founded The Community Economies Research Network (CERN) and the Community Economies Collective (CEC), \"international collaborative networks of researchers who share an interest in theorizing, discussing, representing and ultimately enacting new visions of economy.\"\n\nTheir current work involves rethinking economy and re-visioning economic development. They and the community economies collective draw on political economy, poststructuralism, feminism, and ongoing community-based research to pursue three major research directions:\n\n\nJ. K. Gibson-Graham have provided significant contributions to understandings of community economies and economic geography. In both \"A Postcapitalist Politics\" and \"The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It),\" Gibson-Graham \"propose to construct a new 'language of economic diversity'\" that will contribute to our understandings of possible economic structures. They use a Marxist analysis of capitalism but they argue that capitalism is overdetermined and that there are many non-capitalist economic practices that exist alongside it. Based on this insight, they elaborate a \"politics of possibility\" that explores alternatives to exploitative economic practices. As one reviewer notes, Gibson-Graham \"rejects the idea that capitalist economies are tightly organized systems\" and instead presents the economy as consisting of \"many different undertakings, only some of which cluster around market transactions.\"\n\nIn 1996 Gibson-Graham popularized and furthered discussion on a concept coined \"capitalocentrism\":\n\nThis term refers to the dominant representation of all economic activities in terms of their relationship to capitalism—as the same as, the opposite to, a complement of, or contained within capitalism. Our attempts to destabilize the hegemony of capitalocentrism have included a number of theoretical strategies:\n\n1) production of different representations of economic identity, and\n\n2) development of different narratives of economic development.\n\nTheir work focuses on moving beyond a \"capitalocentric\" viewpoint and recognizing the wide range of economic institutions that co-exist within a given social formation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7351766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7351766", "title": "La Sila", "text": "La Sila\n\nLa Sila, also simply Sila, is the name of the mountainous plateau and historic region located in Calabria, southern Italy.\n\nThe Sila occupies part of the provinces of Cosenza, Crotone and Catanzaro, and is divided (from north to south) into the sub-ranges \"Sila Greca\", \"Sila Grande\" and \"Sila Piccola\" (\"Greek\", \"Greater\" and \"Lesser Sila\", respectively). The highest peaks are the Botte Donato (1,928 m), in the Sila Grande, and Monte Gariglione (1,764 m) in the Sila Piccola.\nThe Sila houses the eponymous national park, the Parco Nazionale della Sila, formerly called National Park of Calabria; it was created in 2002. \n\nThe pine tree Pinus nigra ssp. laricio, commonly called \"Corsican pine\" is native to the Sila. Virgil, Tucidides, Strabo, Cassiodorus report the vast expanses of pines in the Sila.\n\nThe first known settlers of the Sila plateau were the Bruttii, an ancient tribe of shepherds and farmers. Rome began to extend its sphere of influence over Calabria, Sila included, to the extent that any outside rule affected these mountains. Later it was nominally occupied in turn by the Ostrogoths, the Byzantines and, from the 11th century, the Italo-Normans. The last favoured the creation of several monasteries, such as Santa Maria della Matina of San Marco Argentano, Sambucina at Luzzi and Florense Abbey at San Giovanni in Fiore, founded by Joachim of Fiore.\n\nIn 1448-1535 immigrants from Albania settled the area towards the Ionian Sea, creating the communities of \"Sila Greca\" (\"Greek Sila\").\n\nAfter the annexation to the Kingdom of Italy (late 19th century), Sila remained a base of brigandage. New routes were opened to reduce the isolation of the mountain centres, which was dramatic especially in winter: these included the Paola-Cosenza-Crotone road, and specialised mountain railways such as the Cosenza-Camigliatello Silano-San Giovanni in Fiore narrow-gauge line (now operating only for tourist special excursions), operated by the Ferrovie Calabro Lucane, and the Paola-Cosenza rack railway, operated by Ferrovie dello Stato.\n\nThe 1949 film \"The Wolf of the Sila\" was set in the area, and much of it was shot on location.\n\nToday several centres, such as Camigliatello and Palumbo Sila, are becoming tourist resorts.\n\n"}
{"id": "35269648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35269648", "title": "Laser tracker", "text": "Laser tracker\n\nLaser trackers are instruments that accurately measure large objects by determining the positions of optical targets held against those objects. The accuracy of laser trackers is of the order of 0.025 mm over a distance of several metres. Some examples of laser tracker applications are to align aircraft wings during assembly and to align large machine tools. To take measurements the technician first sets up a laser tracker on a tripod with an unobstructed view of the object to be measured. The technician removes a target from the base of the laser tracker and carries it to the object to be measured, moving smoothly to allow the laser tracker to follow the movement of the target. The technician places the target against the object and triggers measurements to be taken at selected points, sometimes by a remote control device. Measurements can be imported into different types of software to plot the points or to calculate deviation from the correct position.\n\nThe targets are known as \"retroreflective\" because they reflect the laser beam back in the same direction it came from (in this case, back to the laser tracker). One type of target in common use is called a spherically mounted retroreflector (SMR), which resembles a ball bearing with mirrored surfaces cut into it.\n\nThe first laser tracker was invented in 1987 by Dr. Kam Lau, CEO of API (Automated Precision, Inc.) while at NIST and made commercially available by API in 1988 with its first production unit being made available to Boeing under a 9 month lease agreement. Tennessee Technology University received an API 6-D laser tracker in 1989. Instruments were later produced by Kern in 1991 following a technology agreement with API. Currently, there are three well known manufacturers of Laser Trackers; API, Faro, and Leica.\n\nFARO does not manufacture in china. The devices are manufactured mainly in the US, Switzerland and Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2676674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676674", "title": "Lev Gumilyov", "text": "Lev Gumilyov\n\nLev Nikolayevich Gumilyov (; 1 October 1912, St. Petersburg – 15 June 1992, St. Petersburg) was a Soviet historian, ethnologist, anthropologist and translator from Persian. He had a reputation for his highly non-orthodox theories of ethnogenesis and historiosophy. He was exponent of eurasianism.\n\nHis parents, the two prominent poets Nikolay Gumilyov and Anna Akhmatova, divorced when Lev was 7 years old, and his father was executed when Lev was just 9. Lev spent most of his youth, from 1938 until 1956, in Soviet labor camps. He was arrested by the NKVD in 1935 and released, but rearrested again and sentenced to five years in 1938. After serving the time, he joined the Red Army and took part in the Battle of Berlin of 1945. However, he was arrested again in 1949 and sentenced to ten years in prison camps. Aiming to secure his release, Akhmatova published a dithyramb to Joseph Stalin, which did not help to release Lev, although it possibly prevented her own imprisonment. The Soviet secret police had already prepared an order for her arrest, but Stalin decided not to sign it. Relations between Lev and his mother became strained, as he blamed her for not helping him enough. She described her feelings about the arrest of Lev and the period of political repressions in \"Requiem\" (published in 1963).\n\nAfter Stalin's death in 1953, Gumilyov joined the Hermitage Museum, whose director, Mikhail Artamonov, he would come to appreciate as his mentor. Under Artamonov's guidance, he became interested in Khazar studies and in steppe peoples in general. In the 1950s and 1960s he participated in several expeditions to the Volga Delta and to the North Caucasus. He proposed an archeological site for Samandar as well as the theory of the Caspian transgression in collaboration with geologist Alexander Alyoksin as one of the reasons for Khazar decline. In 1960 he started delivering lectures at Leningrad University. Two years later, he defended his doctoral thesis on ancient Turks. From the 1960s he worked in the Geography Institute, where he would defend another doctoral thesis, this time in geography.\n\nAlthough the official Soviet authorities rejected his ideas and banned most of his monographs from publication, Gumilyov came to attract much publicity, especially in the Perestroika years of 1985-1991. As an indication of his popularity, the Kazakh president Nursultan Nazarbayev ordered the L.N.Gumilyov Eurasian National University (Евразийский Национальный университет имени Л. Н. Гумилёва, founded in 1996) to be erected just opposite his own palace on the central square of the new Kazakh capital, Astana.\n\nGumilyov attempted to explain the waves of nomadic migration that rocked the great steppe of Eurasia for centuries by geographical factors such as annual vacillations in solar radiation, which determine the area of grasslands that could be used for grazing livestock. According to this idea, when the steppe areas shrank drastically, the nomads of Central Asia began moving to the fertile pastures of Europe or China.\n\nTo describe the genesis and evolution of ethnic groups, Gumilyov introduced the concept of \"passionarity\", meaning the level of activity to expand typical for an ethnic group, and especially for their leaders, at the given moment of time. He argued that every ethnic group passes through the same stages of birth, development, climax, inertia, convolution, and memorial. It is during the \"acmatic\" phases, when the national passionarity reaches its maximum heat, that the great conquests are made. Gumilyov described the current state of Europe as deep inertia, or \"introduction to obscuration\", to use his own words. The passionarity of the Arabic world, on the other hand, is still high, according to him.\n\nDrawing inspiration from the works of Konstantin Leontyev and Nikolay Danilevsky, Gumilyov regarded Russians as a \"super-ethnos\" which is kindred to Turkic-Mongol peoples of the Eurasian steppe. Those periods when Russia has been said to conflict with the steppe peoples, Gumilyov reinterpreted as the periods of consolidation of Russian power with that of steppe in order to oppose destructive influences from Catholic Europe, that posed a potential threat to integrity of the Russian ethnic group.\n\nIn accordance with his pan-Asiatic theories, he supported the national movements of Tatars, Kazakhs, and other Turkic peoples, in addition to those of the Mongolians and other East Asians. Unsurprisingly, Gumilyov's teachings have enjoyed immense popularity in Central Asian countries. In Kazan, for example, a monument to him was opened in August 2005.\n\nSeveral researchers, such as Vadim Rossman, John Klier, Victor Yasmann, Victor Schnirelmann, and Mikhail Tripolsky describe Gumilyov's views as antisemitic. According to these authors, Gumilyov did not extend this ethnological ecumenism to the medieval Jews, whom he regarded as a parasitic, international urban class that had dominated the Khazars and subjected the early East Slavs to the \"Khazar Yoke\". This last phrase he adapted from the traditional term \"Tatar Yoke\" for the Mongol domination of medieval Russia, a term Gumilyov rejected for he did not regard the Mongol conquest as a necessarily negative event. In particular, he asserted that the Radhanites had been instrumental in the exploitation of East Slavic people and had exerted undue influence on the sociopolitical and economic landscape of the early Middle Ages. Gumilyov maintained that the Jewish culture was by nature mercantile and existed outside and in opposition to its environment. According to this view, Jews share a specific way of thinking, and this is associated with the moral norms of Judaism. According to Gumilev, the medieval Jews also did not bear arms themselves, but waged wars by proxies or mercenaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123247", "title": "List of Arabic place names", "text": "List of Arabic place names\n\nThis is a list of traditional Arabic place names. This list includes:\nAll names are in Standard Arabic and academically transliterated. Most of these names are used in modern times, but many of these Arabic forms are not in active use in their namesake places—indeed, modern Arabic names for the same places have often changed to reflect and respect the place's modern non-Arabic pronunciation.\n\n\n9\n\n\n\nHaidar\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhakima\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919052", "title": "List of Romanian words of possible Dacian origin", "text": "List of Romanian words of possible Dacian origin\n\nAccording to the specialist Ion I. Russu, there are 160 Romanian words of Dacian origin (representing, together with derivates, 10% of the basic Romanian vocabulary).\n\nBelow is a list of Romanian words believed by early scholars to be of Dacian origin, which have also been attributed to other origins. The list does not include the Dacian plant names collected by Dioscorides and Pseudo-Apuleius since these words were not retained in Romanian.\n\n\nThe \"Sources\" column indicates the linguist(s) or the works who suggested including the words in the list:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11096792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096792", "title": "List of Superfund sites in the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "List of Superfund sites in the United States Virgin Islands\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in the United States Virgin Islands designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317140", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: O", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: O\n\n"}
{"id": "21778479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21778479", "title": "List of archaeological sites in Peru", "text": "List of archaeological sites in Peru\n\nArchaeological sites in Peru are numerous and diverse, representing different aspects including temples and fortresses of the various cultures of ancient Peru, such as the Moche and Nazca. The sites vary in importance from small local sites to UNESCO World Heritage sites of global importance. Their nature and complexity of the sites vary from small single-featured sites such as pyramids to entire cities, such as Chan Chan and Machu Picchu. Preservation and investigation of these sites are controlled mainly by the National Institute for Culture (INC) (). The lack of funding to protect sites and enforce existing laws, results in large scale looting and illegal trading of artifacts.\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of archaeological sites in Peru, it lists the main archaeological sites of touristic importance as published by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Tourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1632896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632896", "title": "List of artificial objects on Mars", "text": "List of artificial objects on Mars\n\nThe following table is a partial list of artificial objects on the surface of Mars, consisting of spacecraft which were launched from Earth. Most are defunct after having served their purpose, but the \"Curiosity\" rover and the \"InSight\" lander are still operational as of 2018. \"InSight\" is the most recent artificial object to land safely on Mars. The table does not include smaller objects, such as springs, fragments, parachutes and heat shields. As of November 5, 2016, there are about 14 spacecraft missions on the surface of Mars: some of these missions have multiple spacecraft.\n\nIn this listing, it is implied that each mission left debris according to its design. For example, the \"Schiaparelli\" EDM lander likely exploded on impact, creating an unknown number of fragments at one location. At another location, there may be a lower heat shield, and at another location, a parachute and upper heat shield. Another example is the counterweights ejected by MSL during its descent. In some cases, the nature and location of this additional debris has been determined and, in other cases, even the location of the main spacecraft has remained unknown. The identification of \"Beagle 2\" after 11 years is one of the greatest breakthroughs yet, since prior to that, it could not be confirmed what had happened. Spacecraft that have not been precisely located include \"Mars 2\", \"Mars 3\", \"Mars 6\", Mars Polar Lander, and the two Deep Space 2 probes.\n\n\nSeveral landing sites have been named, either the spacecraft itself or the landing site:\n\n"}
{"id": "1176361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176361", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of Vanuatu", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of Vanuatu\n\nThis is a list of people on the postage stamps of New Hebrides and Vanuatu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1286234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286234", "title": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Nikki", "text": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Nikki\n\nTerritory located in present-day Benin.\n\nSarkin Nikki = \"Ruler\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1286308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286308", "title": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Paraku", "text": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Paraku\n\nThe following is a list of rulers of the Bariba (Borgu) state of Paraku:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42277202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42277202", "title": "Lists of municipalities in Canada", "text": "Lists of municipalities in Canada\n\nCanada has a total of 3,572 municipalities among its 10 provinces and 3 territories that are subject to some form of local government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16129302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16129302", "title": "MapWith.Us", "text": "MapWith.Us\n\nMapWith.Us is a geosocial networking website that allows users to create and share custom maps with an online community. User maps are created by uploading and geotagging media. When media is associated with a location on a map, the media is known as a \"map article\". Map articles may include text, photos, paths, icons, video, web links, and RSS feeds.\n\nMapWith.Us implemented automatic geotagging (auto-geotagging) via cell phones in late 2007. The free mobile application allows users at remote locations to create real-time Web-based maps by uploading and geotagging photos with cell phones. The application works by utilizing several different capabilities within a modern cell phone. When an image is captured by the cell phone camera, the built-in GPS tags the image with the present location. The images are afterwards uploaded via the cell phone's Internet data connection to the MapWith.Us website, where they are compiled into photo album \"map articles\".\n\nMaps, including mobile maps, are made private by default but users may publish the map with a password to a select audience, or without restriction.\n\nMapWith.Us makes every map a collaborative map by default, with per-user data segmentation accomplished via overlays. Each overlay contains a group of \"map articles\" that can be toggled on and off by the viewer.\n\nFor example, a map might include overlays of a hiking trip with photos and annotations of two hikers, Jane and Bob. The map was created and is owned by a third user, Nancy, but Jane and Bob liked her trail, so they added items. Nancy doesn't know Jane or Bob, but her published map contains their collaborative submissions, with the option of viewing the added content at any time. However, all access rights remain the privilege of the owner, who can detach overlays without directly affecting the user-submitted content.\n\nMapWith.Us also provides standard flavors of collaboration, letting map owners grant other users the right to add, edit, or delete \"map articles\" directly on a map's surface.\n\nMapWith.Us was created by GeoMonkey, Inc., a Vancouver, Washington, United States-based company. In 2006, GeoMonkey introduced its geosocial website, allowing users to create and share collaborative maps. The first basic form of the tool was developed by Dr. Orest Pilskalns, a professor of Computer Science at Washington State University Vancouver, and students of his CS 420 course, Software Engineering in Practice. With support from the Washington State University Research Foundation, several graduating students (Kevin Karpenske, Adam McDonald, Jacob Moore) continued development on the tool to turn it into a commercially viable service.\n\nGeoMonkey launched its website in 2006 offering numerous tools, for several of which there are patents pending. The site operates under the tagline “A Community Worth Sharing.”\nIn 2008, GeoMonkey, Inc. renamed its service to MapWith.Us to reflect its mapping roots and practical applications. The company simultaneously added several new services, most prominently its mobile application. The free application was initially available for Sprint’s BlackBerry Pearl 8130, allowing users to geotag and upload photos to their personal maps.\n"}
{"id": "38743903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38743903", "title": "Meric Gertler", "text": "Meric Gertler\n\nMeric Gertler, FBA is a Canadian academic and President of the University of Toronto, He was the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science at the same university until October 31, 2013. Gertler is an urban theorist and received his PhD from Harvard.\n\nGertler completed his undergraduate education at McMaster University, where he graduated summa cum laude in 1977. He completed a master of City Planning degree at the University of California, Berkeley in 1979 and received a PhD from Harvard University in 1983. His doctoral thesis was entitled, Capital Dynamics and Regional Development.\n\nGertler joined the University of Toronto Department of Geography and Planning as a lecturer in 1983. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1988 and Full Professor in 1993.\nGertler's work focuses on the geography of innovative activity and the economies of city-regions. His work also examines the local nature of a globalized economy, focusing on manufacturing as embedded within local cultural norms, practice, and assumptions. Gertler's work examines the role of tacit knowledge and interactive learning in explaining local agglomeration economies and innovation. Gertler is the author, co-author or co-editor of more than 80 scholarly publications and seven books. These have had significant impact in his field and have led him to be one of Canada's most highly cited geographers.\n\nGertler has served as an advisor to local, regional and national governments in Canada, the United States and Europe, as well as to international agencies such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (Paris) and the European Union. He was the founding co-director of the Program on Globalization and Regional Innovation Systems (PROGRIS) at the Munk School of Global Affairs, served as director of the Department of Geography's Program in Planning, and holds the Goldring Chair in Canadian Studies.\n\nGertler has held visiting appointments at institutions including Oxford University, University College London, the University of Oslo and the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nGertler has also been a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada since 2003.\n\nHe received the 2014 Distinguished Alumni Award from the University of California, Berkeley and the 2014 Distinguished Scholarship Honor from the Association of American Geographers (AAG).\n\nIn May 2012, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Philosophy degree from Sweden's Lund University, for his exceptional contributions to the fields of economic geography and regional development. In the same year, he was made an Academician of the Academy of Social Sciences (UK), becoming the first University of Toronto scholar inducted and one of only two Canadian members of the Academy.\n\nHe has been a Senior Fellow of the University of Toronto's Massey College since 2000.\n\nA textbook co-edited by Gertler, the Oxford Handbook of Economic Geography received the Choice Magazine's \"Outstanding Academic Book\" award.\n\nHe won the 2007 Award for Scholarly Distinction from the Canadian Association of Geographers.\n\nIn December 2015, Gertler was awarded the Order of Canada with the grade of member.\n\nHe was elected as a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy in 2015.\n\nIn March 2016, Gertler made the controversial decision to not divest the University of Toronto from fossil fuels. This decision was widely criticized by students and faculty members who believe Gertler ignored the implications of climate science.\n\nGertler's decision contradicted a report from an advisory committee on fossil fuel divestment and climate change that was released in December 2015. This 11 member committee included a wide range of academics in fields such as political science, environmental science, and economics, in addition to one student representative and one alumni representative.\n\nThe Advisory Committee's report found that the social injury committed by \"fossil fuels companies whose actions blatantly disregard the 1.5-degree threshold is clear, egregious, and inordinate\" and thus merit divestment. This finding mostly agreed with the student campaign's submission that instead called on the President to divest from the 200 fossil fuel companies with the largest proven reserves.\n\nPresident Gertler's decision was issued in a document called \"Beyond Divestment\". This report asserted that divestment would be inappropriate. The Advisory Committee members publicly criticized Gertler's decision in an open letter that stated his decision ignored their finding that the fossil fuel industry's very business model perpetuates social injury by worsening climate change. Their letter stated that investing in fossil fuel companies who ignore a 1.5 Celsius carbon budget is \"irreconcilable with achieving internationally agreed goals, inordinately contributing to social injury and greatly increasing the likelihood of catastrophic global consequences.\" While Gertler has made a now-final decision, the student campaign to make Gertler divest is ongoing and has refused to accept his decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463729", "title": "Mexico City Metro lines", "text": "Mexico City Metro lines\n\nThe Mexico City Metro is the largest and busiest heavy-rail rapid transit system in Mexico and second in North America, only behind the New York City Subway.\n\n, the system is composed of 12 lines denominated 1 through 9, 12, A and B, totalling of track length and 195 stations. Of all stations, 115 are underground (either in shallow box-tunnels or deep circular tunnels), 54 are at street-level and 26 are elevated.\n\nLine 1's Chapultepec - Zaragoza section was the first of the system to be opened, on September 4, 1969. The line was brought to its current length in August 22, 1984 with its final extension from Zaragoza to Pantitlán.\n\nLine 1 runs mostly in a shallow box-tunnel just a few meters below the street, except for its initial stretch from Observatorio to Tacubaya, where it starts at street-level and progressively goes down to a deep circular tunnel through Tacubaya, where the box-tunnel begins. Line 1 is served by MP-68, NM-83 and NE-92 trains, built in France, Mexico and Spain in 1968, 1983 and 1992, respectively.\n\nTransfer with other Metro lines is available at Tacubaya (lines 7 & 9), Balderas (line 3), Salto del Agua (Line 8), Pino Suárez (line 2), Candelaria (line 4), San Lázaro (line B) and Pantitlán (lines 5, 9 & A). Transfer to the Metrobús bus rapid transit (BRT) system is available at Tacubaya (line 2), Insurgentes (line 1), Cuauhtémoc (line 3), Balderas (line 3), Pino Suárez (line 4) and San Lázaro (lines 4 & 5).\n\nThe line is built under the following avenues:\n\n\nLine 2 was the second line in the system to open, in 1970. After two expansions, the line has 24 stations over a total track length of , of which are passenger track. The line has a general northwest-south direction passing through the city center and its color is blue. It starts at the border of the Federal District and the State of Mexico and ends in the city south.\n\nIt commutes with line 7 at Tacuba, line 3 at Hidalgo, line 8 at Bellas Artes, line 1 at Pino Suárez, lines 8 and 9 at Chabacano and line 12 at Ermita. At Tasqueña it links with the Mexico City Light Rail to Xochimilco. It used to be served by NC-82 and some NM-83 trains.\n\nLine 2 was the scene of the worst accident in the Mexico City Metro's history on October 20, 1975, when a crash occurred between two trains at the Viaducto Station. One train was parked at the station picking up passengers when it was hit by another train that did not stop in time. Twenty people were killed and several wounded. After that accident, automatic traffic lights were installed in all the lines.\n\nThirteen stations run underground while the remaining ten are surface stations. The line is currently served by NM-02 trains built in Mexico in 2004.\n\nThe first section of line 3 was opened in 1970. It has been expanded five times to comprise 21 stations over a total track length of , of which are passenger track, making it the second longest of the system. The line has a general north–south direction passing through the western end of downtown Mexico City and its color is olive green.\n\nIt is built under Insurgentes, Guerrero, Zarco, Balderas, Cuauhtémoc, Universidad, Copilco and Delfín Madrigal avenues. It commutes with line 6 at Deportivo 18 de Marzo, line 5 at La Raza, line B at Guerrero, line 2 at Hidalgo, line 1 at Balderas, line 9 at Centro Médico and line 12 at Zapata.\n\nMost of the stations (17) run underground with the remaining four, including both terminals, being surface stations.\n\nThe first section of line 4 was opened in 1981, and it was expanded once to bring the total extension of this line to ten stations over of track, of which are passenger track. The line has a general north–south direction and is located east of the city center and its color is aqua. It is also the line with the lowest passenger flow, which is why the STC introduced modified 6-wagon trains. In the original blueprint, this line was planned to extend to the north all the way to Ecatepec, Mexico State.\n\nLine 4 is the only one in the system that does not have underground sections. Eight of the ten stations are built on an elevated viaduct and the remaining two are surface stations.\n\nLine 4 connects with line 1 at Candelaria, line 6 at Martín Carrera, line 5 at Consulado, line 8 at Santa Anita, line 9 at Jamaica and line B at Morelos.\n\nThe first section of line 5 was opened in 1981, and it has been expanded twice to bring the total extension of this line to 13 stations over of track, of which are passenger track. The line has a general north-west to south-east direction relative to the city center and its color is yellow. This line previously had the NM73 trains but due to the introduction of the NM02 trains in Line 2 now it is served by NC82 Canadian trains made by Bombardier. Line 5 runs to Mexico City International Airport (Terminal Aérea station).\n\nLine 5 has four underground and nine surface stations. Five stations connect with other metro lines.\n\nLine 6 had its first section inaugurated in 1983. It has been expanded once to bring the total extension of the line to 11 stations over of track, of which are passenger track. This line has a west–east direction running north of the city center and its color is scarlet red.\n\nThe line has only one surface station, the El Rosario terminal, while the rest of the line runs under ground. Four stations connect with other metro lines. Line 6, like line 4, is also served by customized six-car trains.\n\nThe first section of line 7 was opened to the public in 1984. It has been expanded three times to bring the total length of the line to 14 stations over of track, of which are passenger track. Line 7 has a north–south direction running west of the city center and its color is orange.\n\nThe line has its only surface station in the El Rosario terminal. The rest of the line runs underground, with some sections being located more than 20 m below street level, making it the deepest line in the system at a maximum of 36 meters. Three stations connect with other metro lines.\n\nThis line used MP68 trains and a small number of NM73, after the rehabilitation of some MP68. They kept circulating on this line although there is a slightly bigger number of NM79 and NM83 in this line. Today there are only retroadapted NM73 and NM83 models and some trains from the first model due to the introduction of the NM02 in the Line 2. Currently the MP68 Trains from Line 9 are being reintroduced.\n\nLine 8 was the next to last route of the network to be opened, on July 20, 1994 by then President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and then regent of the city, Manuel Aguilera Gómez. Construction plans for the line date back to much earlier, but they were put on hold due to significant redevelopment. It has 19 stations over a total track length of , of which are passenger track. Line 8 runs in a general south-east direction, beginning near the city center, and its color is bright green.\nThe line has 14 underground stations and five surface stations, including the southern terminal Constitución de 1917. Six stations connect line 8 with other metro lines.\nAccording to the Sistema de Transporte Colectivo, the volume of people moved in this line was 117,386,342 persons in 2006.\n\nThe first section of line 9 was opened to the public in 1987. It has been expanded once to a length of 12 stations over of track, of which are passenger track. The line was opened to relieve passenger traffic from line 1, to which it runs parallel south of the city center. The color of the line is dark brown.\n\nLine 9 has eight underground stations with the remaining being elevated stations similar to those in line 4, including the terminal Pantitlán. It is the only line in the system in which no section of the track runs at street-level. Additionally, five stations connect with other metro lines. The trains of this line are made up from MP68 trains rehabilitated with fans and intelligent control systems and some NM79 rolling stock.\n\nSome of the stations were the set for the 1990 film Total Recall.\n\nLine A was the second metro line that extended into the suburbs of Mexico City outside the Mexican Federal District. Opened in its entirety in 1991, it comprises ten stations over of track, of which are passenger track. Line A runs in a general south-east direction, east of the city center, and its color is purple.\n\nLine A has only one underground station, the terminal Pantitlán, while the rest of the line runs at street-level, sometimes going underground between stations. Only one station makes connections with other metro lines.\n\nUntil Line 12's opening, 21 years later (in 2012), line A was unique within the system in its use of traditional rail traction (steel-wheeled rolling stock) as opposed to pneumatic traction (rubber-tyred rolling stock). Because it was the first line of this type in the metro system, it was called the \"Metro Férreo\" and sometimes continues to be referred to by that name. The line is served by FM-86 trains, built in Mexico by Concarril in 1986, and FM-95A trains, also built in Mexico (by Bombardier) between 1998 and 1999, which draw electricity through a pantograph. And also FE-07 CAF trains that were made in 2009.\n\nLine B became the third line to extend into the suburbs of Mexico City. The first section of the line was opened in 1999 and was expanded once to comprise a total of 21 stations over of track, of which are passenger track. Line B starts north of the city center and runs in a general north-east direction relative to it. Its color is green on silver.\n\nSix stations of line B run under ground, four are elevated and 11 run at street-level. Five stations connect with other metro lines.\n\nAll the trains are MP68 modified and equipped with GPS and intelligent control system, the trains in this line were the leftovers from Line 1 that were rehabilitated by Bombardier-Concarril.\n\nConstruction of line 12 began after a public consultation, on August 8, 2007, and inaugurated on October 30, 2012. Although the line offered full service during the first 16 months of operation (Mixcoac - Tláhuac), the service over the eleven easternmost stations was suspended indefinitely due to structural failures, with provisional terminal being Atlalilco as of October 2014. For the 18 months of the repair works, Line 12 ran from Mixcoac to Atlalilco, (9 stations), 4 of them linking with other lines, as well as with the Mexico City Metrobús.\n\nAccording to the Mexico City Metro website, line 12 trains use traditional rail traction (as line A). This means it would be the second \"metro férreo\", this could have been called line C but the reasons for numerical naming (which also implies lines A and B are 10 and 11 respectively) does not allow it, because the parameters of this series, imply that the lines designated with letters instead of numbers are because those lines intersect areas of Mexico State (another entity of the country, adjacent to Mexico City). Government nicknamed it the \"línea del Bicentenario\", commemorating the 200th anniversary of the beginning of Mexican War of Independence on September 16, 1810 and promising to deliver all twenty stations by April 30, 2012. However, delays on train deliveries and construction caused full operation was delayed to October 30, 2012. At that date, President Calderón and Mayor Marcelo Ebrard opened the line to service.\n\nIn March 2014, 11 stations had to be closed because of security risks for the passengers because of rail corrugation. An investigation determined rails were incompatible with the trains, accusations of corruption arose and former Mayor Marcelo Ebrard left the country to avoid prosecution. After 18 months line was repaired and resumed service.\n\n<br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1693028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693028", "title": "Nick Middleton", "text": "Nick Middleton\n\nNick Middleton (born 1960) is a British physical geographer and supernumerary fellow of St Anne's College, Oxford. He specialises in desertification.\n\nNick Middleton was born in London, England. As a geographer, he has travelled to more than 50 countries. \"Going to Extremes\" is a television programme for Channel 4 about extreme lifestyles, in which Middleton experiences life in the hostile conditions other\ncultures must endure. He has appeared on BBC 2's \"Through the Keyhole\".\n\nThesis\n\n\nBooks as sole author\n\n\nCo-authored books\n\n\nCo-authored articles\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40423344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40423344", "title": "Nuku, Wallis and Futuna", "text": "Nuku, Wallis and Futuna\n\nNuku is a village in Wallis and Futuna. It is located in Sigave District on the northwestern coast of Futuna Island. Its population according to the 2008 census was 267 people.\n\nThe village lies between Leava, the district seat, and Vaisei. Its major building is the church of Sausau ().\n"}
{"id": "8439956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8439956", "title": "Order of Magellan", "text": "Order of Magellan\n\nThe Order of Magellan is an honor bestowed on distinguished individuals who have circumnavigated the earth and who, to the course of their career, have contributed to the world of science or the environment or future progress through peace and understanding. \nAmong the pantheon of winners of this award are Douglas MacArthur, philanthropist and mountaineer Sir Edmund Hillary, ethnographer and adventurer Thor Heyerdahl, Dr. William Walsh, who started Project Hope, oceanographer and underwater archaeologist Dr. Robert Ballard, oceanographer Jacques-Yves Cousteau, and astronaut and United States Senator John Glenn. The Magellan Award is the highest award bestowed by the Circumnavigators Club, founded in 1902. \nThe honor is named after the Portuguese born explorer, Ferdinand Magellan, who is widely known as the first captain to sail around the world—though he didn't complete the circumnavigation as he died during the voyage in the Philippines, that being the Spanish navigator Juan Sebastián Elcano, who took over command of the expedition after Magellan's death, and completed the trip.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278355", "title": "Outline of Akrotiri and Dhekelia", "text": "Outline of Akrotiri and Dhekelia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Akrotiri and Dhekelia:\n\nAkrotiri and Dhekelia – British Overseas Territory on the island of Cyprus, administered as a Sovereign Base Area. It comprises two separate areas, the Eastern Sovereign Base Area and the Western Sovereign Base Area. The bases were retained by the UK following the independence of Cyprus in 1960, because of the strategic location of Cyprus in the Mediterranean Sea. The Western Sovereign Base Area includes Akrotiri (; and Episkopi Cantonment, while the Eastern Sovereign Base Area includes Dhekelia Cantonment (Greek: Δεκέλεια; Turkish: Dikelya) and Ayios Nikolaos.\n\n\nGeography of Akrotiri and Dhekelia\n\n\n\nDemographics of Akrotiri and Dhekelia\n\nPolitics of Akrotiri and Dhekelia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of Akrotiri and Dhekelia\n\n\n\nAkrotiri and Dhekelia\n\n"}
{"id": "20629684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20629684", "title": "Parliament Gardens", "text": "Parliament Gardens\n\nParliament Gardens is a small park in downtown Windhoek, Namibia. It is located between the Tintenpalast (Namibia's Parliament building) and the Christuskirche. It was laid out in 1932 and was originally called the Tintenpalast gardens, adopting its present name after Namibian independence in 1990.\n\nParliament Gardens contains Namibia's first post-independence monument: a bronze-cast statue of the Herero chief Hosea Kutako. Two other Namibian nationalists are also honoured with bronze statues in the gardens: Hendrik Samuel Witbooi and Theophilus Hamutumbangela. The three statues flank the steps up to parliament's main entrance. \n\nThe gardens used to be an olive plantation, and still include an olive grove. They also contain a bowling green lined with bougainvilleas along with a thatched-roof clubhouse. Twice a month the gardens host \"Theatre in the Park\", run by the College of the Arts.\n\nIn 2016, the opening of the Namibian Parliament was held in the Parliament Gardens because of limited space in the Tintenpalast. Due to a change to the Constitution in 2014, the number of parliamentarians had increased significantly, and so joint sittings have to be held elsewhere.\n\n\"Rough Guides\" describes Parliament Gardens as \"delightful, shady... definitely merit a stroll\". The gardens are \"particularly popular at lunchtimes and weekends, when students laze on the lawns poring over their books or each other.\" They are also a \"popular place for a lunchtime picnic.\"\n"}
{"id": "1686325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686325", "title": "Placido Zurla", "text": "Placido Zurla\n\nPlacido Zurla, O.S.B. Cam., (April 2, 1769 – 29 October 1834) was an Italian Camaldolese monk and prelate, who was Cardinal Vicar of Rome and a writer on medieval geography.\n\nZurla was born at Legnago, Veneto, of noble parents and christened Giacinto (Hyacinth). At the age of eighteen Zurla entered the Camaldolese Monastery of St. Michael, situated on the island of Murano in the Venetian Lagoon. When he entered the novitiate of the monastery, he took the name Placid. There he found a lifelong friend in Mauro Cappellari (afterwards Pope Gregory XVI), then a young monk of his own age.\nHe became Lector in philosophy and theology, and in 1802 published a theological textbook. As librarian, his attention was attracted by the map of the world executed between 1457 and 1459 in that same monastery by the famous Camaldolese cartographer Fra Mauro. In 1806 Zurla published an account of it entitled \"Il Mappamondo di Fra Mauro\". This led to further studies on early travelers, of which the most important result was the work, \"Di Marco Polo e degli altri viaggiatori veneziano\" (2 volumes, Venice, 1818–19).\nIn 1809 Zurla was elected a Definitor of his Congregation and given the title of Abbot. The next year the monastery was suppressed by order of Napoleon I, but the monks kept up their college dressed as secular priests. Of this institution Zurla acted as Rector and Cappellari as Lector of philosophy until its complete dissolution in 1814. From that year he taught theology at the Patriarchal Seminary of Venice till 1821, when he moved to Rome and resumed the white habit of St. Romuald at the Monastery of St. Gregory the Great. By that time, Cappellari was prior of that community.\nPope Pius VII named Zurla as a consultor to various congregations and Prefect of Studies at the Pontifical Urban College. in 1821 he received the cardinal's hat, and in the following year the titular see of Archbishop of Edessa. He served as Cardinal Vicar to Pope Leo XII and his two successors, and took an active interest in the organization of the Roman seminary, the reform of criminal tribunals, the delimitation of Roman parishes, and the affairs of the many Sacred Congregations of which he was a member. Cardinal Zurla was greatly loved by his friends, but his zeal for the reform of abuses made him some enemies in Rome.\n\nHe died at Palermo in 1834.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23126795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23126795", "title": "Public holidays in Åland", "text": "Public holidays in Åland\n\nPublic holidays in the Åland Islands include:\n"}
{"id": "3718137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718137", "title": "Ralph Stockman Tarr", "text": "Ralph Stockman Tarr\n\nRalph Stockman Tarr, S.B. (January 15, 1864 – March 21, 1912) was an American geographer.\n\nHe was born at Gloucester, Massachusetts, and educated at Harvard, where he graduated from the Lawrence Scientific School in 1891, and worked as an assistant in geology from 1890 to 1891. Beginning in 1892, he served as assistant in geology at Cornell, where he became professor of dynamic geology and physical geography from 1897 until his death.\n\nHe was Assistant United States Fish Commissioner 1882-3 while he was connected with the Smithsonian Institution, and Assistant Geologist for the Texas Geological Survey in 1888 and 1891. He was in charge of the 1896 Cornell expedition to Greenland largely to study glaciology while being attached to the Peary expedition's goal to retrieve a large iron meteorite.\n\nBesides acting as associate editor of the \"Bulletin of the American Geographical Society\" and the \"Journal of Geography\", he published:\n\nTwo posthumous publications were published: \"College Physiography\" (1914) and \"Alaskan Glacier Studies\" (1914), with Lawrence Martin.\n"}
{"id": "24489303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24489303", "title": "Reginald Golledge", "text": "Reginald Golledge\n\nReginald George Golledge (born 6 December 1937 in Dungog, New South Wales; died 29 May 2009 in Goleta, California) was an Australian-born American Professor of Geography at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He was named Faculty Research Lecturer for 2009. During his career he wrote or edited 16 books and 100 chapters for other books, and wrote more than 150 academic papers. \n\nGolledge was a pioneer in the field of behavioral geography. When behavioral geography divided into a humanistic and an analytical approach by the early 1970s, Golledge became the chief proponent of the latter one. In 1984 he became blind, and moved his focus to the geography of disability. Golledge was one of the developers (the others being psychologists Jack Loomis and Roberta Klatzky) of the UCSB Personal Guidance System.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2969449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2969449", "title": "Rissne", "text": "Rissne\n\nRissne is a neighborhood in the western part of Sundbyberg Municipality, Stockholm, Sweden. It borders to Stora Ursvik in the north, Hallonbergen in the west, Duvbo in the southwest, and in the west to Kista, the latter two within Västerort in Stockholm Municipality and has about 7500 inhabitants. The area belonged to what used to be Spånga municipality until its dissolution in 1949, when it for example together with Duvbo was transferred to Sundbybergs stad. The name comes from Risö, which was the name that the Vikings used. The Svea Artillery Regiment had its camp there until 1960. An apartment block was built 1982 to 1988. The street names in the area hints to the site’s military history. (Lavettvägen, Kavallerivägen, Pjäsbacken, Artillerivägen, and Skvadronsbacken) and on the many relics (including graves) contained in Rissne (Mjölnerbacken, Odalvägen, Valkyriavägen).\n\nThe residential area is located on a plateau in the middle of Rissne. Apartment blocks have been built around Rissne square and the large lawn in the center of the plateau and also on the nearby hills. The buildings consist largely of low to medium polish and brick houses on a courtyard setting with intermediate walking paths with a continuous construction since the 1980s. There are two smaller terraced areas (Duvboskogen and Grönkulla named by the constructor) they were built in the 2000s and later. The lack of thoroughfare makes traffic volume low in the area. In 2010 there were 3151 flats in the area of which 70% of them were allotted for rent and 30% of them were of condominium. Approximately sixty sculptures made by famous Swedish artists are placed in the residential area.\n\nThe area was inhabited as early as the Middle ages. Back then Rissne was nothing more than a rural consisting of Rissne farm, cropland and forest. The farm was mentioned in early medieval documents\n\nThe secretary of the Admiralty, Reinhold Goevert Leuhusen acquired the farm in 1640. During the 17th century Erik Dahlberg made a sketch of the farm, according to the sketch the farm-house had 4 floors. The courtyard was covered by Charles XI reduction and became crown property in 1692. Rissne farm was used for military purpose until 1811. Due to decay the top 2 floors was demolished because of the tenant Karl Edmund Bennet. Since 1983 the estate has been protected by heritage building decided by Sundbybergs municipality. The house was restored 1992.\n\nMounds in Rissne have been used for archaeological research. The height on the mounds and the gifts indicates that Rissne was inhabited by the high society.\n\nIn the northwestern Rissne Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB) has a large office complex in Bankhus 90. The smaller office complexes Valla Park and Rissne Office Center is located closer to Rissne square.\n\nRissne is the second largest (in terms of population) district in Sundbyberg Municipality, where Centrala Sundbyberg is the largest.\nAt the end of year 2011, 7,512 inhabitants lived in Rissne, which corresponds to 19.0% of the total inhabitants living in the municipality. Throughout urban planning it’s expected that the population of Rissne is going to rise above 10 000 inhabitants at the year of 2025. Year 2011 was 55,3% of the population born in a foreign country (72% from Europe) and 20,6% had parents that were born in a foreign country (which means that a total of 75.3% of the population had a foreign background according to the concept used by the Swedish authorities).\n"}
{"id": "1358667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358667", "title": "Service structure", "text": "Service structure\n\nA service structure is a structure built on a rocket launch pad to facilitate assembly and servicing. \n\nAn umbilical tower also usually includes an elevator which allows maintenance and crew access. Immediately before ignition of the rocket's motors, all connections between the tower and the craft are severed, and the bridges over which these connections pass often quickly swing away to prevent damage to the structure or vehicle.\n\nThe structures at the Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39 pads include a rotating service structure that is moved in place around the shuttle stack for the period of time that the space craft sits on the pad prior to launch, usually several weeks. That structure is rotated back out of the way several hours prior to the launch while the fixed service structure remains in place at all times. \n\nCertain rockets such as the Delta and the Saturn V use structures consisting of a fixed portion, formally called the umbilical tower and a mobile portion, which is moved away from the vehicle several hours before launch called mobile service tower/structure. The mobile portion is often called a gantry.\n\nThe 'White Room' is the small area used by NASA astronauts to access the spacecraft. The room takes its name from the white paint, which was used on the Gemini. The room was first used in Project Mercury, its use and white color (since Gemini) continued through subsequent programs up to and including the Space Shuttle program. \n\nIn this room astronauts make final preparations before entering the spacecraft such as donning parachute packs, putting on helmets and detaching portable air conditioning units.\n\nSimilarly, Soviet-and Russian-designed service structures such as those at the Baikonur Cosmodrome stand while servicing the vehicle. The entire structure pivots outward and downward out of the way..\n"}
{"id": "55884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55884", "title": "Triglav", "text": "Triglav\n\nTriglav (; , ), with an elevation of , is the highest mountain in Slovenia and the highest peak of the Julian Alps. The mountain is the pre-eminent symbol of the Slovene Nation. It is the centrepiece of Triglav National Park, Slovenia's only national park. Triglav was also the highest peak in Yugoslavia before Slovenia's independence in 1991.\n\nVarious names have been used for the mountain through history. An old map from 1567 named it \"Ocra mons\", whereas Johann Weikhard von Valvasor named it \"Krma\" in the second half of the 17th century. According to the German mountaineer and professor Adolf Gstirner, the name \"Triglav\" first appeared in written sources as \"Terglau\" in 1452, but the original source has been lost. The next known occurrence of \"Terglau\" is cited by Gstirner and is from a court description of the border in 1573. Early forms of the name \"Triglav\" also include \"Terglau\" in 1612, \"Terglou\" in 1664 and \"Terklou\" around 1778–89. The name is derived from the compound \"*Tri-golvъ\" (literally 'three-head'—that is, 'three peaks'), which may be understood literally because the mountain has three peaks when viewed from much of Upper Carniola. It is unlikely that the name has any connection to the Slavic deity Triglav. In the local dialect, the name is pronounced \"Tərgwò\" (with a second-syllable accent) in contrast to standard Slovene \"Tríglav\". The highest peak is sometimes also called Big Mount Triglav () to distinguish it from Little Mount Triglav (, ) immediately to the east.\n\nThe first recorded ascent of Triglav was achieved in 1778, on the initiative of the industrialist and polymath Sigmund Zois. According to the most commonly cited report, published in the newspaper \"Illyrisches Blatt\" in 1821 by the historian and geographer Johann Richter, these were the surgeon Lovrenz Willomitzer (written as \"Willonitzer\" by Richter), the chamois hunter Štefan Rožič, and the miners Luka Korošec and Matevž Kos. According to a report by Belsazar Hacquet in his \"Oryctographia Carniolica\", this happened towards the end of 1778, by two chamois hunters, one of them being Luka Korošec, and one of his former students, whose name is not mentioned.\n\nTriglav's height was first measured on 23 September 1808 by Valentin Stanič. The first to put the name of the mountain on a map, written as \"Mons Terglou\", was Joannes Disma Floriantschitsch de Grienfeld, who in 1744 published the map \"Ducatus Carniolae Tabula Chorographica\". The first map its name appeared on written as \"Triglav\" was \"Zemljovid Slovenske dežele in pokrajin\" (Map of Slovene Lands and Provinces) by Peter Kosler, completed from 1848 until 1852 and published in Vienna in 1861.\n\nDuring World War II, Triglav symbolically captured the primary drive by the Slovene resistance to the Fascist and Nazi armies. The Slovene Partisans wore the Triglav cap from 1942 until after 1944.\n\nTriglav was the highest peak of the now defunct Yugoslavia; it was both countries highest and most prominent peak and, together with the southern Vardar River (now in Republic of Macedonia), was the symbol of Yugoslavian \"brotherhood and unity\".\n\nAt the top of the mountain stands a small metal structure, the Aljaž Tower (). It acts as a storm shelter and a triangulation point. Along with Triglav, it is also a landmark of Slovenia and a symbol of the Slovenes and Slovene territorial sovereignty.\n\nThe tower's namesake was the priest, mountaineer and patriot Jakob Aljaž. In early 1895, he drew up, with a piece of chalk on the floor of his room in the parish of Dovje, plans for a cylindrical tower with a flag on its top. In April that year he purchased the summit of Triglav for the sum of one Austro-Hungarian gulden. Having done so, he secured himself the right to erect a building on the mountain top. The tower was constructed from iron and zinc coated sheet steel by Anton Belec from Šentvid near Ljubljana. He and four workers brought the parts of the tower to the summit of Triglav and put the tower together in only five hours on 7 August 1895. The opening took place that same day. Aljaž donated the shelter to the Slovene Alpine Society.\n\nIn the beginning, there were three four-legged chairs, a summit register, a spirit stove, and the image \"Triglav Panorama\" by Marko Pernhart in the tower. It was later repainted and renovated several times by Alojz Knafelc and others. In the Communist era, as the highest point of the former Yugoslavia, it was painted red and decorated with a red star. However, it has now more or less been restored to its original appearance. The star was removed shortly before the dissolution of Yugoslavia. On the proclamation of Slovene independence in June 1991, the flag of Slovenia was raised on top of the tower.\nIn 1895, due to a lack of space, Aljaž also commissioned the building of the Stanič Shelter. It is located below the top of Triglav and is named after the poet and mountaineer Valentin Stanič. The shelter has dimensions of and has room for 8 people sitting or 16 standing. Originally it also had a wooden door, benches, a table, and a chair. Its significance diminished after the Kredarica Lodge was erected in 1896.\n\nThe Triglav Glacier () is located below the summit on the karstified Triglav Plateaus (), part of the northeastern side of the mountain. Covering over at the end of the 19th century, the glacier had shrunk to by 1946, and after further shrinkage had fallen into two parts by 1992. It now covers an area of only 1–3 hectares, depending on the season.\n\nThe Triglav area is the setting of an old Slovene folk tale concerning a hunter seeking a treasure guarded by an enchanted chamois buck named \"Zlatorog\" (\"Goldhorn\", after its golden horns).\n\nThe earliest known depiction of Triglav is on the front page of the work \"Oryctographia Carniolica\", written by Belsazar Hacquet. It was a copper engraving made in 1778 by C. Conti after a drawing by Franz Xaver Baraga. Among later visual artists who depicted Triglav, the most well known are Anton Karinger (1829–1870) from Ljubljana, Marko Pernhart (1824–1871) from Klagenfurt, Valentin Hodnik (1896–1935) from Stara Fužina, Edo Deržaj (1904–1980) from Ljubljana, and more recently Marjan Zaletel (born 1945), living in Ljubljana.\n\nAmong the musical works related to Triglav, a special place is held for the poem \"Oh, Triglav, My Home\" (). It was written in 1894 by the priest and poet Matija Zemljič and quickly became very popular among Slovene mountaineers. In 2007, its first stanza, accompanied by a melody of Jakob Aljaž, became the official anthem of the Alpine Association of Slovenia. An instrumental version of the poem, written by Bojan Adamič, is part of the start and end credits of the annual ski jumping broadcasts from Planica.\n\nThe first Slovene-language full-length film, recorded in 1931 by Janko Ravnik, was titled \"In the Kingdom of the Goldhorn\" () and features an ascent by a group of students to the top of Triglav. The second Slovene full-length film, recorded the following year, was titled \"The Slopes of Mount Triglav\" (). It was directed by Ferdo Delak and was a romantic story featuring a wedding on the top of Triglav.\n\nSince 1968, Triglav has become a theme of avant-garde artists. The first instance was a manifestation by the art group OHO, called \"Mount Triglav\", which took place in December 1968 at Ljubljana's Congress Square. In 2004, the group IRWIN produced a series of paintings named \"Like to Like/ Mount Triglav\". In 2007, an artistic performance was held atop Mount Triglav by the artists Janez Janša (director), Janez Janša (visual artist) and Janez Janša (performance artist) called \"Mount Triglav on Mount Triglav\".\n\nA stylized depiction of Triglav's distinctive shape is the central element of the Slovene coat of arms, designed by the sculptor Marko Pogačnik, and is in turn featured on the flag of Slovenia. Alongside San Marino and Slovakia, Slovenia is the only other country in Europe and one of the few in the world to feature a mountain on its coat-of-arms. Formerly, it was featured on the coat of arms of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia.\n\nThe first to depict Triglav as the symbol of the Slovenes was the architect Jože Plečnik, who in 1934 put it besides other coats-of-arms of the nations of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia on the coat of the statue of the Mother of God in front of the parish church in Bled.\n\nDuring World War II, the stylised Triglav was the symbol of the Liberation Front of the Slovene Nation resistance movement. The distinctive three-pronged caps worn by Slovene Partisans during World War II were known as \"triglavkas\".\n\nA relief map of the mountain is the design on the national side of the Slovene 50 eurocent coin.\n\nThe former Slovene president Milan Kučan once proclaimed that it is a duty of every Slovenian person to climb Triglav at least once in their lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "25979764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25979764", "title": "Vienna microbreweries", "text": "Vienna microbreweries\n\nThe Viennese microbrewery (German: Wiener Brauhaus, Wiener Kleinbrauerei) is a typical institution of Vienna. These microbreweries serve their own beer to the public. They also serve food, in many cases traditional Austrian dishes. In many cases the actual brew equipment is in the center of the place and the tables for the customers are located around the equipment. Some microbreweries open in the late morning and offer both lunch and dinner, others open in the late afternoon. Notice: The term \"X-Bräu\" does not always mean that it is a real brew pub.\n\nThe order is by district.\nAmerican style microbrewery opened by David Beaver who is from Michigan. They feature 7 rotating house beers and 2 guest beers. The brewpub also serves classic American food.\nSeveral entries have been removed since they are not microbreweries or already closed. Please, only add real breweries here!\n"}
