{"id": "36912586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36912586", "title": "1658 in Norway", "text": "1658 in Norway\n\nEvents in the year 1658 in Norway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1122618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122618", "title": "1974 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1974 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1974 Monaco Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at Monaco on 26 May 1974. It was race 6 of 15 in both the 1974 World Championship of Drivers and the 1974 International Cup for Formula One Manufacturers. The 78-lap race was won by Lotus driver Ronnie Peterson after he started from third position. Jody Scheckter finished second for the Tyrrell team and Shadow driver Jean-Pierre Jarier came in third.\n\n"}
{"id": "44938208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44938208", "title": "1981 enlargement of the European Communities", "text": "1981 enlargement of the European Communities\n\nThe 1981 enlargement of the European Communities was the second enlargement of what is now the European Union, then the European Communities (EC). Greece acceded to the EEC on 1 January 1981. It is considered a part of the Mediterranean enlargement.\n\n"}
{"id": "44344798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44344798", "title": "1999 NFL Europe season", "text": "1999 NFL Europe season\n\nThe 1999 NFL Europe season was the 7th season in 9 years of the American Football league that started out as the World League of American Football. The Berlin Thunder replaced the England Monarchs for the 1999 season.\n\nFrankfurt 38-24 Barcelona\nSunday, June 27, 1999 Rheinstadion Düsseldorf, Germany \n"}
{"id": "42599181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42599181", "title": "1st Infantry Brigade (Hungary)", "text": "1st Infantry Brigade (Hungary)\n\nThe 1st Infantry Brigade was a formation of the Royal Hungarian Army that participated in the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia during World War II.\n"}
{"id": "54004600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004600", "title": "AIDSSH (Albania)", "text": "AIDSSH (Albania)\n\nThe Authority for Information on Former State Security Documents (AIDSSH) () is an independent, public institution in Albania, responsible for implementing the law relating to the collection, administration, processing and use of former state security documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "5634787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5634787", "title": "All to You", "text": "All to You\n\n\"All To You\" was the Austrian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2000, performed in English by The Rounder Girls.\n\nThe song was performed 24th (last) on the night, following Ireland's Eamonn Toal with \"Millennium of Love\". At the close of voting, it had received 34 points, placing 14th in a field of 24.\n\nThe song is an upbeat number, with the girls describing their feelings for their lovers - or rather, explaining that they can't describe them.\n\nDue to poor performances, Austria was not able to enter the 2001 Contest, however they were permitted to enter the 2002 edition. Thus, the song was succeeded as Austrian representative by Manuel Ortega singing \"Say a Word\".\n"}
{"id": "54589583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54589583", "title": "Anthem of the 21st of April", "text": "Anthem of the 21st of April\n\nThe Anthem of the 21st of April () was the anthem of the ruling military regime during the Greek military junta of 1967–74, \"de facto\" used as an unofficial co-national anthem along with the Hymn to Liberty. The anthem glorifies the \"national revolution\" begun by the regime, which took power with the Coup d'état of 21 April 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "6432012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6432012", "title": "Apiarius of Sicca", "text": "Apiarius of Sicca\n\nApiarius of Sicca was an African priest convicted by the Bishops of Africa of numerous unspecified crimes in the early 5th century AD, and excommunicated by Bishop Urbanus of Sicca Veneria. In 418 Apiarius appealed his convictions directly to Pope Zosimus (Term of Office: March 417 - December 418) by-passing the African Bishops appeals system. Pope Zosimus, citing the Nicene Canons, sent legates to assess the charges. The Canon citation: \"When a bishop thinks he has been unjustly deposed by his colleagues he may appeal to Rome, and the Roman bishop shall have the business decided by judices in partibus\"; was not of the Nicene Canons, but rather part of the Sardica Canons. The Bishops of Africa, not finding the statement in their copies of Nicene Canons, sought copies of the Nicene Canons from the Archbishops of Constantinople, Alexandria, and Antioch. \n\nPope Boniface I (Term of Office: December 418 - 423) took over the appeal by Apiarius of Sicca in 418 at the death of Pope Zosimus. In 419 the Bishops of Africa sent the copies of the Nicene Canons obtained from Alexandria and Constantinople to justify their position that the Nicene Canons did not permit Pope Zosimus actions.\n\nThe controversy over the right of a bishop to appeal directly to Rome outlasted Pope Boniface and was still the subject of correspondence during the term of Celestine I (Term of Office: 423 - 432), successor to Boniface. The disposition of the appeal of Apiarius of Sicca is not known.\n\n"}
{"id": "28402366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28402366", "title": "Arctic policy of the United States", "text": "Arctic policy of the United States\n\nThe Arctic policy of the United States refers to the foreign policy of the United States in regard to the Arctic region. In addition, the United States' domestic policy toward Alaska is part of its Arctic policy.\n\nSince March 30, 1867 (when the United States purchased Alaska from the Russian Empire), the United States of America has been one of the eight Arctic nations and one of the five Arctic Ocean littoral countries. The United States has been a member of the Arctic Council since its inception in 1996 and assumed the Chairmanship (from Canada) in April 2015. 4 of the Arctic Council's 6 Permanent Participant indigenous organizations have representatives in Alaska. The United States is also an observer of the Conference of Parliamentarians of the Arctic Region.\n\nSince 1880, the global temperature has risen 0.8°C; but the temperature in the Arctic has warmed twice as much, leading to much less sea ice coverage and greater accessibility to natural resources, transport passages and fisheries.\n\nThe goals stated in the United States Arctic Policy released in NSPD-66 on January 9, 2009 are as follows: Meet national security and homeland security needs relevant to the Arctic region; Protect the Arctic environment and conserve its biological resources; Ensure that natural resource management and economic development in the region are environmentally sustainable; Strengthen institutions for cooperation among the eight Arctic nations (the United States, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, the Russian Federation, and Sweden); Involve the Arctic's indigenous communities in decisions that affect them; and Enhance scientific monitoring and research into local, regional, and global environmental issues.\n\nOn May 10, 2013, the Obama White House released the National Strategy for the Arctic Region, emphasizing three areas: advancing U.S. security interests, pursuing responsible Arctic region stewardship, and strengthening international cooperation.\n\nCanada is the United States' closest partner in Arctic affairs, due to geographic proximity and similar Arctic policy directives. The countries work together on scientific research, including mapping the Arctic sea floor. Two significant disagreements are the border dispute in the Beaufort Sea and the legal designation (international or internal waters) of the Northwest Passage.\n\nThe current Arctic policy of the United States has its beginnings in the Nixon Administration. In December 1971, President Nixon produced National Security Decision Memorandum 144 to address the United States' stance toward the Arctic. The memo suggested that the development of the United States' Arctic policy focus on three key areas: minimize adverse risks to the environment; promote international cooperation in the Arctic; and provide for the protection of security interests in the region.\nIn 1984, the United States Congress passed the \"Arctic and Policy Act of 1984\" to provide for the national defense of the region, enhance commercial fishing endeavors, and fund environmental and climate research in the region. The United States remained largely quiet in the international arena with regard to Arctic policy until joining the eight other Arctic countries by signing the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy agreement in 1991. The main purpose behind this agreement was to coordinate the protection of the Arctic region by: researching the various pollutants in the region and sharing the data; assessing the environmental impacts of development activities; and control pollutants and their effects on the Arctic environment. The Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy was absorbed into the Arctic Council following the Yalta Declaration in 1997.\n\nIn May 2008, five of the Arctic nations adopted the Illulissat Declaration which incorporates the 'law of the sea'. The US has not ratified UNCLOS and is the only Arctic nation yet to join, even though the Clinton, Bush and Obama administrations have all favored ratification.\n\nThe Arctic Council was the face of United States Arctic Policy until the latest National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-66) was signed by President Bush on January 9, 2009. With the diminishment of Arctic sea ice, the increase in human activities in the region, and territorial considerations of the unclaimed Arctic have provided a new sense of urgency to the Arctic issue. This impetus is unique to the United States during this time because of climate change in the region.\n\nWhile the Arctic Council still remains the authoritative international body on Arctic issues, the United States has started to develop its own strategy toward addressing its resources and claims toward the region. US Arctic Region Policy Presidential Directive, a collaborative effort replacing the Clinton-era Arctic policy directive. NSPD-66 is the official, active Arctic policy being pursued by the Obama Administration and its departments. The policy's international aims are to support the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), promote participation in the Arctic Council, develop agreements with other Arctic countries on increased human activity in the region, and \"continue to cooperate with other countries on Arctic issues through the United Nations (U.N.) and its specialized agencies.\" The policy argues against the need for a treaty among Arctic nations similar to the Antarctic Treaty restricting commercial and military activities. The policy calls for the US to, \"assert a more active and influential national presence to protect its Arctic interests and project sea power throughout the region,\" and to secure free passage of vessels through the Northwest Passage and the Northern Sea Route.\n\nAt the March 29, 2010, \"Arctic Five\" meeting in Ottawa, United States Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, criticized Canada for not inviting the other three Arctic nations or indigenous groups. Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister, Lawrence Cannon, said the meeting was not intended to, \"replace or undermine the Arctic Council\".\n\nThe diminishment of Arctic sea ice has provided the strongest impetus for a more assertive United States policy in the Arctic region. The United States focuses on numerous facets of the Arctic region in promoting and explaining their reasoning for a stronger policy position in the region. As an Arctic country with territory at stake, the United States is continuously pushing for a larger influence in the region to pursue industry and energy development considerations. One of the tenets of NSPD-66 is the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), this would provide clarity and the appropriate framework for the United States to submit a claim to some area of the Arctic as the sea ice continues to melt. In addition, new passageways in commercial shipping may become available due to the breaking of ice.\n\nThe population influx in the Arctic region is also predicted to coincide with more commercial shipping, marine tourism, and the transportation of large passenger vessels. This poses coverage gaps to the US Navy and US Coast Guard search and rescue functions. Due to the non-military nature of the Arctic Council, the United States will also need to pursue separate military agreements with other Arctic countries to ensure a protected and secure region.\n\nThe US Arctic Policy Group is a federal inter agency working group comprising those agencies with programs and/or involvement in research and monitoring, land and natural resources management, environmental protection, human health, transportation and policy making in the Arctic. The APG is chaired by the Department of State and meets monthly to develop and implement US programs and policies in the Arctic, including those relevant to the activities of the Arctic Council.\n\nThe Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Task Force was initiated by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), and NOAA in 2009 and includes representatives from more than 20 federal agencies. President Obama has called on the Task Force to develop federal recommendations for adapting to climate change impacts both domestically and internationally.\n\nThe EOP is headed by the White House Chief of Staff. Entities within the EOP include: Council on Environmental Quality, National Security Council, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Science and Technology Policy, President's Intelligence Advisory Board, and others.\n\nThe CEQ's Interagency Ocean Policy Task Force released its Final Recommendations July 19, 2010. One recommendation was to create The National Ocean Council (NOC), which is co-chaired by the CEQ and the OSTP. The USARC, in conjunction with the Navy and under the aegis of the National Ocean Council, is developing an Arctic Strategic Action Plan.\n\nCongress established the Office of Science and Technology Policy in 1976 with a broad mandate to advise the President and others within the Executive Office of the President on the effects of science and technology on domestic and international affairs.The mission of the policy is to ensure that Federal investments in science and technology are making the most out of the contribution to economic prosperity, public health, environmental quality, and national security. It lightens up the process by which government programs in science and technology are resourced, evaluated, and coordinated. Maintain professional relationship between government officials and science representatives. This organization also co-chairs the National Ocean Council.\n\nThe State Department’s Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs (OES) includes the Office of Ocean and Polar Affairs (OPA), which is responsible for formulating and implementing US policy on international issues concerning the oceans, the Arctic, and Antarctica. Julie Gourley at the OES is the Senior Arctic Official representing the United States at Arctic Council meetings. In 2011, the OES's Deputy Assistant Secretary David Balton was the lead US negotiator for the Arctic Council's search and rescue initiative. On July 16, 2014, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry announced the appointment of Retired Admiral Robert Papp to Serve as U.S. Special Representative for the Arctic.\n\nIn September, 2016, the Department of State's International Security Advisory Board issued a report on Arctic Policy. The report calls for: 1) Continued U.S. leadership in the Arctic; 2) Speedy Law of the Sea treaty ratification; 3) Increased “presence” and “domain awareness”; 4) Increased and continued cooperation among the Arctic nations; 5) Adopting appropriate policies regarding Russian interests, policies, and activities in the Arctic; and 6) Strengthening possible ‘Transparency and Confidence Building Measures’ in the Arctic region.\n\nThe US Navy's Task Force Climate Change released the Navy Arctic Roadmap in November 2009 and the Navy Climate Change Roadmap in April 2010.\nAdmiral Gary Roughead believes overfishing and melting sea ice are increasing the importance of the Navy in the Arctic. He also favors the United States ratifying the United Nations Law of the Sea Treaty “so we have a seat at the table’’ and so the United States could “expand its sovereign rights to the increasingly accessible outer continental shelf areas of the resource-rich environment of the Arctic.’’ Navy Rear Admiral David Titley was heavily involved in Arctic Policy.\n\nThe latest version of the DoD's Arctic Strategy (2016) defines the following \"ways and means\" in which the DoD will use its resources to achieve its arctic objectives:\n\nThe National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) provides Arctic information and a set of indicators describing the current state of the Arctic ecosystem. NOAA predicts a nearly ice-free summer in the Arctic ocean before 2050.\n\nNOAA issued its Arctic Vision and Strategy in April, 2010. The Strategy delineates six main goals: to forecast sea ice, strengthen the understanding of science, improve weather forecasts, establish international partnerships, improve the management of coastal resources in the Arctic, and \"advance resilient and healthy Arctic communities and economies.\"\n\nThe Department of the Interior has arguably the most extensive and diverse set of Federal equities and responsibilities in the region, including protection of wildlife and habitat, federal trusteeship for Alaska Natives, and leasing responsibilities for onshore and offshore areas suitable for mineral development and production. The total federal lands estate in Alaska is nearly equal to the combined area of Texas and Wyoming, all managed by Department of the Interior bureaus including the Bureau of Land Management, the US Fish & Wildlife Service, and the National Park Service. President Obama's Executive Order 13580 created the Interagency Working Group on Coordination of Domestic Energy Development and Permitting in Alaska chaired by the Deputy Secretary of the Interior and including many federal agencies. Part of the Working Group's mandate was to develop \"a framework for making integrated Arctic management decisions\" and present a report to the President by 12.31.12. The report, titled \"Managing for the Future in a Rapidly Changing Arctic\" included input from industrial and commercial stakeholders, the State of Alaska, Tribal governments and Alaska Native organizations, municipal governments, conservation organizations, and federal agencies. The report was released to the public in March 2013, and called for sustained high-level leadership from the White House on integrated Arctic management; a strengthening of key partnerships in the region with the State of Alaska and Alaska Native tribal governments and organizations; improved stakeholder engagement in important decision processes in the region; and more coordinated, streamlined federal actions in regard to science and management, environmental evaluations, and important cultural and ecological areas. The report was well received by the full spectrum of stakeholders in the region, many of whom made statements of support for this \"call to action on a pressing issue of national importance.\" Alaska Senator Mark Begich described the report as \"required reading for every member of Congress\".\n\nThe Coast Guard is a large player in Arctic maritime affairs. On May 21, 2013 the \"U.S Coast Guard's Vision for Operating in the Arctic Region\" was released. The report is subtitled \"Ensure safe, secure, and environmentally responsible maritime activity in the Arctic.\"\n\nThe Office of Polar Programs (OPP) manages National Science Foundation funding for basic research in the Arctic and the Antarctic. The funds are provided as NSF grants to institutions to find any substantial results. OPP supports individual investigators or research teams and U.S. participation projects. Projects can involve investigators from many broad perspectives. OPP has two science divisions one each for the Arctic and the Antarctic. A third division manages the provision of logistic, support operations including field stations, camps, and laboratories. The United States is a leading nation in polar science, and research results have global significance.\n\nThe Department of Energy deals with pipeline issues and energy efficiency in Alaska.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Agriculture is active in Alaska through USDA Rural Development and the Rural Utilities Service.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Region 10 covers Alaska.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services includes the Indian Health Service: Alaska Area. Erosion and the melting of permafrost continue to present challenges. Some native villages are being forced to move, and the culture continues to evolve due to the changing landscape and the continuing migration of food sources.\n\nThe secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation chairs the Committee on the Marine Transportation System (CMTS), a Cabinet-level partnership of Federal departments and agencies with responsibility for the Marine Transportation System. Public comment on the CMTS U.S. Arctic Marine Transportation System Draft Report was closed April 22, 2013. A final draft is being developed for consideration by the CMTS Coordinating Board.\n\nSenator Lisa Murkowski is a strong proponent of ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. She introduced three Arctic bills in the 111th Congress: \n\nAfter participating in the 10th Conference of Arctic Parliamentarians in Iceland, Senator Murkowski sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in September 2012 suggesting that they work together to designate \"a senior political official to serve as the United States' Ambassador of the Arctic.\" The letter also calls for: strengthening the Arctic Council so that the Council will be viewed by non-Arctic entities as the primary forum for Arctic cooperation; greater participation by Arctic indigenous peoples in the Council’s work; and greater engagement by non-Arctic nations like Singapore, Japan, China and South Korea.\n\nOn August 3, 2009, Sen. Begich introduced the Inuvikput Package of Senate Bills 1560–1566:\n\nBecause Alaska makes the United States an Arctic nation, the state is directly involved in much Arctic research, security, and policy. 90% of the state-funded portion of the budget comes from oil tax revenue—the fisheries industry is also very significant.\n\nGovernor Parnell delivered a speech at a US Senate field hearing on Alaska's role in U.S. Arctic Policy on August 20, 2009. The Climate Change Sub-Cabinet (created in 2007) advises the Governor on Alaska climate change strategy.\n\nThe Alaska Arctic Council Ad Hoc Working Group is chaired by the Alaska Governor's DC office and includes representatives of the US Department of State, the State of Alaska, Native organizations, universities, the private sector, non-governmental organizations and federal agencies in Alaska. It meets monthly and provides a consolidated Alaskan viewpoint on Arctic issues to the Department of State and other federal policymakers and keeps Alaska informed of US policy issues in the Arctic and Arctic Council affairs.\n\nThe Alaska Region, with USGS and Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, hosts the Alaska Climate Change Executive Roundtable, a coalition of senior level executives of both federal and state resource management agencies from throughout Alaska that has been meeting regularly since the Climate Change Forum for Alaska in February 2007 to share information and facilitate cooperation among agencies.\n\nThe Alaska Department of Fish & Game assists with Arctic Policy in the concerns of Marine Environment Protection in the area of policy dealing with scientifically supported work groups. This department assists in controlling the amount of fishing to be done and when a season is to be opened or closed to protect the population of marine life.\n\nThe Alaska Department of Natural Resources' Division of Coastal and Ocean Management closed operations in July 2011.\n\nThe Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation's Division of Spill Prevention and Response (SPAR) works on the prevention, preparedness and response of oil spills within Alaska, including Arctic areas of the state. This team also assists in the conservation of arctic flora and fauna, protection of marine life, and sustainable development through the monitoring of oil.\n\nThe Alaska Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development's Division of Community and Regional Affairs (DCRA) actively provides various forms of assistance to Alaskan residents, most notably in smaller villages including those in Arctic regions.\n\nThe Alaska Northern Waters Task Force (NWTF) was tasked with facilitating the creation of a joint federal-state entity to coordinate US and Alaskan interests that result from the warming of the northern oceans. The Task Force released its final report January 2012. Per the Task Force's recommendation, the Alaska Arctic Policy Commission was legislatively created April 2012, and held its first meeting March 23, 2012 in Juneau. The Commission will carry on the work of the NWTF in more detail, and create an actionable Arctic policy for Alaska.\n\nIARPC (U.S. Interagency Arctic Research Policy Committee) consists of fifteen-plus agencies, departments, and offices across the US federal government and is chaired by the National Science Foundation. The IARPC agency helps set priorities for the future of Arctic research. IARPC develops the US Arctic Research Plan and coordinates US research programs to support US Arctic policy.\nThey work with Arctic Research Commission to formulate national Arctic research policies, discuss research programs and details for funding support. They write the five-year plan to implement national policy and responsible for the updates in policy. Coordinate multiagency budget documents and promote cooperative Arctic scientific research program. IARPC submits yearly accomplishments report to the congress.\n\nThe US Arctic Research Commission was established by an Act of 1984 (as amended, Public Law 101-609). Commission’s main purpose is to establish the national policy, priorities, and goals necessary to construct a federal program plan for basic and applied scientific research with respect to the Arctic, including natural resources and materials, physical, biological and health sciences, and social and behavioral sciences and to recommend Arctic research policy, and to communicate our research and policy recommendations to the President and the Congress. They also work with National Science and Technology Council as a responsible agency that support cooperation and collaboration through Federal Government. Commission’s also gives guidance to (IARPC) in the development of Arctic research projects. They also work on international level by interacting with international research organizations to obtain broadest view of Arctic research.\n\nThere are total seven commissioners appointed by the President. Four members are from academic institutions, two members are from private commercial activities in the Arctic and one member is the resident of the US Arctic. The Commission staff consists of an Executive Director, communication Specialist and Deputy Executive director. The Commission appoints advisers on as needed basis to advise on particular research projects. The Commission holds meetings and public hearings in Alaska to receive input. They also make site visits and field trips to the research facilities to acquire knowledge about ongoing projects. \nUSARC Report on Goals and Objectives for Arctic Research 2013–2014\n\nThe Arctic Research Consortium of the United States was formed in 1988 to identify and bring together the human and facilities resources of the Arctic research community in the United States. ARCUS makes foundation for important research, produces scientific reports with research community recommendations for arctic science priorities, and distributes information to the community. The purpose of ARCUS is to strengthen the foundations of Arctic research by providing leadership in advancing knowledge. It serves as a forum for planning studies of Arctic research, acting as a synthesizer of the scientific information relevant to geographical location and encouraging the public to attain more scientific education that will provide more opportunities of research in Arctic. ARCUS is a non-profit corporation consisting of institutions organized and operated for educational, professional, or scientific purposes. The ARCUS headquarters and staff are located in Fairbanks, Alaska.\n\n\n\nThe Arctic contains significant deposits of precious minerals, timber, and fish. Research plans to determine the extent of the US Outer Continental Shelf and the amounts of resources it contains is a primary directive of the US Arctic policy delineated in NSPD-66.\n\nThe Arctic environment is unique and changing. Despite the heavy research, the Arctic is still poorly understood. The need for sound scientific and socioeconomic information, Arctic environmental research, monitoring, and vulnerability assessments are top priorities. These priorities include sea ice and glaciers, thawing permafrost and coastal erosion, as well as the pollutants from the Arctic contaminating the region. As the temperature rises, contaminants locked in the ice and soils will be released into the air, water, and land. The increased human activity in the Arctic will lead to an increase of contaminants.\n\nNSPD-66 policy states that for \"environmental protection and conservation of natural resources, the Secretaries of State, the Interior, Commerce, and Homeland Security and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in coordination with heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies, shall respond effectively to increased pollutants and other environmental challenges; continue to identify ways to conserve, protect, and sustainably manage Arctic species and ensure adequate enforcement presence to safeguard living marine resources; seek to develop ways to address changing and expanding commercial fisheries in the Arctic; and intensify efforts to develop scientific information on the adverse effects of pollutants on human health and the environment and work with other nations to reduce the introduction of key pollutants into the Arctic.\"\n\nThe United States Geological Survey estimates that 22 percent of the world's oil and natural gas could be located beneath the Arctic. The estimate of oil availability to the US is in the range of 30 billion barrels while that of natural gas reserves could be 221 billion cubic feet.\n\nThe range of some sub-Arctic fish stocks is likely to extend into Arctic areas due to climate change, and decreasing ice-cover will likely lead to more fishing activity. Scientific understanding of Arctic fish populations is limited and needs to be studied before increased Arctic fishing occurs.\n\nIn May 2008, President Bush signed a joint resolution passed by Congress relating to Arctic Fisheries. The resolution stresses the need for the United States to work with other nations to conserve and manage future Arctic fisheries.\n\nThe NSPD-66 states,\"The United States supports the application in the Arctic region of the general principles of international fisheries management outlined in the 1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of December 10, 1982, relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks and similar instruments. The United States endorses the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the Arctic from destructive fishing practices and seeks to ensure an adequate enforcement presence to safeguard Arctic living marine resources.\"\n\nThe Arctic to north of the Atlantic, extensive commercial fisheries and international managerial mechanisms already exist. North of the Bering Strait, there are currently no significant commercial fisheries and no international management mechanisms.\n\nThe Arctic Fishery Management Plan went into effect December 3, 2009, closing the Arctic Management Area to commercial fishing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30950947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30950947", "title": "Bahrain light rail network", "text": "Bahrain light rail network\n\nThe Bahrain light rail network is a public transport project in Bahrain.\n\nSeveral different lines are planned:\n\nThe project was unveiled in 2008, with construction planned to start in 2009. However, construction has been repeatedly delayed. By December 2009, construction was expected to start in 2011. Consultants were prequalified in 2010; as of January 2010, the project was still awaiting budgetary approval but it was hoped that construction could begin before the end of 2012.\n\nThe first phase, including 24 km of light rail network, is expected to cost BD453 million. Subsequent phases will cost more.\n\n"}
{"id": "27872521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27872521", "title": "Beurre d'Ardenne", "text": "Beurre d'Ardenne\n\nBeurre d'Ardenne is a type of cow's milk Butter made in the Ardennes of Belgium.\n\nAs a traditional product of the area it received Belgian appellation d'origine by Royal decree in 1984, and received European \"PDO\" status in 1996.\n\nThe areas where it is produced are within Wallonia and include the provinces of Luxembourg, Namur and Liège.\n\nTo qualify, production must take place entirely in those areas, from milking of the cows, through to churning and, final maturation of the butter, and may be made by churning milk, cream or a mixture of both. The final product must be of at least 82% butterfat and butyric acid.\n"}
{"id": "16082895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16082895", "title": "Birgit language", "text": "Birgit language\n\nBirgit (also known as Bergit, Birgid, Berguid) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in southeastern Chad.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann. 2004. Das Birgit eine osttschadische SpracheVokabular. In: Gábor Takács (ed.), \"Egyptian and Semito-Hamitic (Afro-Asiatic) studies: in memoriam W. Vycichl\", 342–371. Leiden: Brill.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann. 2005. Le paradigme verbal en -U dans les langues chamito-sémitiques. In: Antoine Lonnet and Amina Mettouchi (eds.), \"Les langues chamito-sémitiques (afro-asiatiques)\", vol. 1, 65–80. Paris: Ophrys.\n\nMarti, Marianne, Calvain Mbernodji, and Katharina Wolf. 2007. L'enquete sociolinguistique des langues Birguit - Kadjakse - Masmedje du Tchad. \"SIL Electronic Survey Reports\" 2007-018. Dallas: SIL International. Online: http://sil.org/silesr/abstract.asp?ref=2007-018.\n"}
{"id": "15334323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15334323", "title": "Birmingham East (European Parliament constituency)", "text": "Birmingham East (European Parliament constituency)\n\nPrior to its uniform adoption of proportional representation in 1999, the United Kingdom used first-past-the-post for the European elections in England, Scotland and Wales. The European Parliament constituencies used under that system were smaller than the later regional constituencies and only had one Member of the European Parliament each. \n\nThe constituency of Birmingham East was one of them.\n\nIt consisted of the Westminster Parliament constituencies of Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham Erdington, Birmingham Hall Green, Birmingham Hodge Hill, Birmingham Northfield, Birmingham Selly Oak, Birmingham Small Heath, Birmingham Sparkbrook, and Birmingham Yardley.\n\n"}
{"id": "40308362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40308362", "title": "Blarney (code name)", "text": "Blarney (code name)\n\nBLARNEY is a communications surveillance program of the National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States. It started in 1978, operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and was expanded after the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe collection takes place at top-level telecommunications facilities within the United States, choke points through which most traffic will flow, including wireless. This type of surveillance is referred to as Upstream collection.\n\nBLARNEY was first brought to public view in a PRISM slide revealed by Edward Snowden. The FY 2013 budget for BLARNEY was $65.96 million.\n\nInitially it was assumed that BLARNEY was the program under which the NSA cooperated with AT&T and that among the tapping facilities were AT&T's Room 641A in San Francisco, California, revealed in 2006 by Mark Klein, and another in New Jersey. However, new NSA documents released on August 15, 2015 show that the cooperation with AT&T takes places under FAIRVIEW, and that Room 641A is probably part of that program, instead of BLARNEY.\n\nThe new documents about FAIRVIEW also show that this isn't a larger umbrella program comprising BLARNEY, OAKSTAR, STORMBREW and others, as was said by Thomas Drake. Those programs are very similar, but associated with different companies, and may have slightly different legal arrangements with the NSA. Arrangements with corporations are associated with the NSA's Special Source Operations division (SSO).\n\nBLARNEY operates under three legal authorities: NSA FISA, FBI FISA and section 702 FAA. Collection of data under the FISA authority requires a court order from the FISA Court (FISC) in which the identifiers (\"selectors\") for the target are mentioned. Although this process to acquire a court order is very time-consuming, BLARNEY collection under the FISA authority is the main contributor to the President's Daily Brief and accounts for over 11,000 product reports a year.\n\nTo gather intelligence, algorithms are used to sift through the communications, and forward on, for storage and possible analysis, those which are believed likely to contain foreign intelligence. The first stage of filtering is done by the telecoms themselves, at the request of the NSA. The filters are not always perfect, and sometimes purely domestic communications are caught.\n\nIn the event that domestic communications are swept up, the minimization procedures are applied. The procedures require that most \"incidental\" communications between U.S. persons be destroyed, with a few exceptions. The exceptions include: the content is encrypted, it contains foreign intelligence, or is evidence of a crime. This last exception allows the NSA to pass to the Drug Enforcement Administration's Special Operations Division (SOD) information relating to drug trafficking. The program has been likened to Project SHAMROCK, in which the NSA, and its predecessor organization were given daily microfilm copies of all telegrams entering and exiting the United States.\n\nBLARNEY is known to be associated with two SIGADs of the same name. The designation for PRISM (US-984XN) is very similar to the designations of the BLARNEY SIGADs: US-984 and US-984X. Accordingly, the speaker's notes of an NSA presentation that was released on August 15, 2015, say that \"PRISM falls under BLARNEY, but is just one access of many\".\n\"Note: SIGADs not otherwise designated are presumed to operate under the legal authority of Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act (FAA)\"\n\nGlossary\n\n"}
{"id": "57865328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57865328", "title": "Bloomberg Global Business Forum", "text": "Bloomberg Global Business Forum\n\nThe Bloomberg Global Business Forum is an annual event organized by Bloomberg Philanthropies, the charity founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The event is held during the annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly each September in New York City. The conference represents a 'handoff' of the annual meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative, the last of which was held during the 2016 presidential campaign.\n\nThe first Bloomberg Global Business Forum (GBF) took place in New York in 2017. The event \"was inspired\" by an earlier Bloomberg Philanthropies event, the U.S.-Africa Business Forum which was held in 2014 and 2016 and was co-sponsored by the U.S. Department of Commerce and Bloomberg Philanthropies. That event brought business leaders together with heads of state from every African nation. At the 2016 U.S.-Africa Business Forum, then-president Barack Obama said \"on so many key challenges that we face — our security, our prosperity, climate change, the struggle for human rights and human dignity, the reduction of conflict — Africa is essential to our progress. Africa's rise is not just important to Africa, it's important to the entire world.\"\n\nThe other precedent for the GBF is the annual meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative, a project of the Clinton Foundation. The CGI was held annually beginning in 2005 \"as a way to try to implement meaningful solutions to world problems such as climate change, world hunger and poverty.\" In August 2016, former president Bill Clinton announced that the CGI scheduled for the following month would be the last one.\n\nIn the days before the first Global Business Forum in September 2017, Bloomberg adviser and key GBF organizer Kevin Sheekey linked the event to the Clinton Global Initiative, saying that Clinton \"doesn't just happen to be the first speaker.\" Sheekey also said \"There's a bit of a handoff\" between the two events. In the global development industry, leaders also linked the Global Business Forum with CGI.\n\nThe GBF agenda addressed a range of global topics such as \"mitigating climate change, eradicating disease and alleviating poverty.\" The agenda also featured discussions on addressing the disruption caused by automation and exploring new models for global business.\n\nIn an op-ed published on the day of the Global Business Forum, Mike Bloomberg highlighted the importance of the private sector in U.S. foreign policy, saying \"it's important to remember that in a global economy, America's relationship with the world does not depend solely on the state of politics along Pennsylvania Avenue.\" Bloomberg argued that in a range of topics, \"from public health and safety to broadband access to anti-poverty efforts,\" government should collaborate with business \"because the private sector is often better at allocating resources productively, controlling costs, and using cutting-edge technology to solve problems.\"\n\nDuring the Global Business Forum, leaders offered several major announcements. World Bank President Jim Kim and the Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Patricia Espinosa announced a new joint platform to reduce the risk of climate investments called \"Invest4Climate.\" Also at the forum, California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr announced that Bloomberg, Espinosa and Indian business leader Anand Mahindra would co-chair his Global Climate Action Summit. Nigerian industrialist Aliko Dangote also announced an initiative to target one million Nigerian women for small grants using mobile banking.\n\nSpeakers at the 2017 Global Business Forum included former president Bill Clinton, Mike Bloomberg, Microsoft founder and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation cofounder Bill Gates, Alibaba Group founder and executive chairman Jack Ma, Apple CEO Tim Cook, PepsiCo chairman and CEO Indra K. Nooyi and NBA superstar LeBron James. Heads of state and global organization speakers included French President Emmanuel Macron, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde, former Joint Chiefs chair Adm. Mike Mullen, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and World Bank Group president Jim Kim.\n\nIn March 2018, speaking to the European Commission at the EU Sustainable Finance Day, French President Macron announced that he would be moving the next meeting of his One Planet Summit against climate change to New York to coordinate with the 2018 Global Business Forum, to be held September 26, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "6985758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6985758", "title": "Bosnian diaspora", "text": "Bosnian diaspora\n\nThe Bosnian diaspora consists of Bosnian emigrants of all ethnicities and their descendants in countries such as the United States, Canada, Germany, Sweden, Australia and elsewhere. There are an estimated 2,000,000 Bosnians living outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe Bosnian diaspora was the consequence of either voluntary departure, coercion and/or forced migrations or expulsions that occurred on several occasions since the 1870s:\n"}
{"id": "40576013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40576013", "title": "Boulevard Barbès", "text": "Boulevard Barbès\n\nThe Boulevard Barbès is a boulevard in the 18th arrondissement of Paris. It is named after French politician Armand Barbès. It was built in 1867 during Haussmann's renovation of Paris. It starts at the boulevard de la Chapelle and ends at the rue Ordener. It is 835 metres long and 35 metres wide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47292858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47292858", "title": "Campo (Venice)", "text": "Campo (Venice)\n\nA campo is a city square in Venice, Italy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9539890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9539890", "title": "Chilean transition to democracy", "text": "Chilean transition to democracy\n\nThe Chilean transition to democracy began when a Constitution establishing a transition itinerary was approved in a plebiscite. From 11 March 1981 to March 1990, several organic constitutional laws were approved leading to the final restoration of democracy. After the 1988 plebiscite, the 1980 Constitution, still in force today, was amended to ease provisions for future amendments to the constitution, create more seats in the senate, diminish the role of the National Security Council and equalize the number of civilian and military members (four members each).\n\nChristian Democrat Patricio Aylwin served from 1990 to 1994 and was succeeded by another Christian Democrat, Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle (son of Eduardo Frei Montalva), leading the same coalition, for a six-year term. Ricardo Lagos Escobar of the Socialist Party and the Party for Democracy led the Concertacion to a narrower victory in the 2000 presidential election. His term ended on March 11, 2006, when Michelle Bachelet of the Socialist Party took office. Center-right investor and businessman Sebastián Piñera, of the National Renewal, assumed the presidency on March 11, 2010, after Bachelet's term expired. Bachelet returned to the office on March 11, 2014, being succeeded by Piñera in the following term (2018-2022).\n\nPassed under tight military control in 1980, the Chilean constitution's legal dispositions were designed to lead to the convocation of all citizens to a plebiscite during which the Chilean people would ratify a candidate, proposed by the Chief of Staff of the Chilean Armed Forces and by the General Director of the Carabineros, the national police force, and who would become the President of Chile for an eight-year term. In 1980, this meant that the Chilean people were supposed to approve Augusto Pinochet's candidacy, assuring him popular legitimacy and the sanction of a vote. Should the people refuse the junta's chosen candidate, the military would relinquish political control to the civilians, convoking the following year presidential and parliamentary democratic elections, and thus putting an end to the military government. In 1987, Pinochet's government passed a law allowing the creation of political parties and another law allowing the opening of national registers of voters. If the majority of the people voted \"yes\" to Pinochet's plebiscite, he would have remained in power for the next eight years, but Congress would have been elected and installed on March 11, 1990, as in fact happened.\n\nAmong various causes of Pinochet's decision to resume this procedure, the situation in the Soviet Union, where Mikhail Gorbachev had initiated the glasnost and the perestroika democratic reforms, which would finally lead to the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and to the official end of the Cold War, is clearly an important factor. The Cold War had important consequences in South America, considered by the United States to be a full part of the Western Bloc, in contrast with the Eastern Bloc, a division born with the end of World War II and the Yalta Conference. Following the 1959 Cuban Revolution and the local implementation in several countries of Che Guevara's foco theory, the US waged a war in South America against the \"Communists subversives,\" leading to support in Chile of the right-wing, which would culminate with the coup of 1973 in Chile. In a few years, all of South America was covered by similar military dictatorships, called \"juntas\". In Paraguay, Alfredo Stroessner was in power since 1954; in Brazil, left-wing President João Goulart was overthrown by a military coup in 1964; in Bolivia, General Hugo Banzer overthrew leftist General Juan José Torres in 1971; in Uruguay, considered the \"Switzerland\" of South America, Juan María Bordaberry seized power in the June 27, 1973 coup. A \"Dirty War\" was waged all over the continent, culminating with Operation Condor, an agreement between security services of the Southern Cone and other South American countries to repress and assassinate political opponents. Militaries also took power in Argentina in 1976, and then supported the 1980 \"Cocaine Coup\" of Luis García Meza Tejada in Bolivia, before training the Contras in Nicaragua where the Sandinista National Liberation Front, headed by Daniel Ortega, had taken power in 1979, as well as militaries in Guatemala and in El Salvador. In the 1980s, however, the situation progressively evolved in the world as in South America, despite a renewal of the Cold War from 1979 to 1985, the year during which Gorbatchev replaced Konstantin Chernenko as leader of the USSR.\n\nAnother alleged reason of Pinochet's decision to call for elections was the April 1987 visit of Pope John Paul II to Chile, during which he visited Santiago, Viña del Mar, Valparaíso, Temuco, Punta Arenas, Puerto Montt and Antofagasta. Before the pontiff's pilgrimage to Latin America, during a meeting with reporters, he criticized Pinochet's regime as \"dictatorial.\" In the words of \"The New York Times\", he was \"using unusually strong language\" to criticize Pinochet and told the journalists that the Church in Chile must not only pray, but actively fight for the restoration of democracy in Chile. During his 1987 Chilean visit, the Polish pope asked Chile's 31 Catholic bishops to campaign for free elections in the country. According to George Weigel, he held a meeting with Pinochet during which they discussed the topic of the return to democracy. John Paul II would have allegedly pushed Pinochet to accept a democratic opening of the regime, and would even have called for his resignation. In 2007, Cardinal Stanisław Dziwisz, Pope John Paul II's secretary, confirmed that, during his visit with Pinochet, the Pope asked him to step down and transfer power over to civilian authorities. During his visit to Chile, John Paul II supported the Vicariate of Solidarity, the Church-led pro-democracy, anti-Pinochet organization. John Paul II visited the Vicariate of Solidarity's offices, spoke with its workers, and \"called upon them to continue their work, emphasizing that the Gospel consistently urges respect for human rights.\" Some have erroneously accused John Paul II of affirming Pinochet's regime by appearing with the Chilean ruler in his balcony. However, Cardinal Roberto Tucci, the organizer of John Paul II's pilgrimages revealed that Pinochet tricked the pontiff by telling him he would take him to his living room, while in reality he took him to his balcony. Tucci claims that the pontiff was \"furious.\"\n\nWhatever the case, political advertisement was legalized on September 5, 1987, and became a key element of the campaign for the \"NO\" to the referendum, which countered the official campaign which presaged a return to a Popular Unity government in case of a defeat of Pinochet. Finally, the \"NO\" to Pinochet won with 55.99% of the votes, against 44.01% of the votes. Thus presidential and legislative elections were called for the next year.\n\nFurthermore, in July 1989, a constitutional referendum took place after long negotiations between the government and the opposition. If approved, 54 constitutional reforms were to be implemented, among which the reform of the way that the Constitution itself could be reformed, the restriction of state of emergency dispositions, the affirmation of political pluralism, the strengthening of constitutional rights as well as of the democratic principle and participation to the political life. All parties in the political spectrum supported the reforms, with the exception of the small right-wing Avanzada Nacional and other minor parties, and the reforms were passed with 91.25% of the vote\n\nRepresenting the \"Concertación\" coalition which supported the return to democracy, gathering the Christian Democrat Party (PDC), the Socialist Party (PS), the Party for Democracy (PPD) and the Social Democrat Radical Party (PRSD), Christian Democrat Patricio Aylwin won a sweeping victory in the first democratic elections, in December 1989, since the 1970 election won by Salvador Allende. Patricio Aylwin had gathered around him 3,850,023 votes (55.17%), while the center-right supermarket tycoon Francisco Javier Errázuriz Talavera, who represented the UCCP party, managed to take 15.05% of the vote, which had as main effects to lower right-wing candidate Hernán Büchi's score to 29.40% (approximately 2 millions votes, almost half than Patricio Aylwin).\n\nThe \"Concertación\" coalition dominated Chilean politics for much of the next two decades. It established in February 1991 the National Commission for Truth and Reconciliation, which released in February 1991 the Rettig Report on human rights violations during Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship. This report, contested by human rights NGOs and associations of political prisoners, counted 2,279 cases of \"disappearances\" which could be proved and registered. Of course, the very nature of \"disappearances\" made such investigations very difficult, while many victims were still intimidated by the authorities, and did not dare go to the local police center to register themselves on lists, since the police officers were the same as during the dictatorship.\n\nThe same problem arose, several years later, for the Valech Report, released in 2004 and which counted almost 30,000 victims of torture, among testimonies from 35,000 persons. However, the Rettig Report did list important detention and torture centers, such as the Esmeralda ship, the Víctor Jara Stadium, Villa Grimaldi, etc. The registering of victims of the dictatorship, and then, in the 2000s, trials of military personnel guilty of human rights violations, would dominate the struggle for the recognition of crimes committed during the dictatorship by human rights NGOs and associations of political prisoners, whom many resided in exile.\n\nBeside implementing the Rettig Commission, Aylwin's government established a \"Comisión Especial de Pueblos indígenas\" (Special Commission of Indigenous People), whose report provided the intellectual framework of the \"Indigenous Law\" (\"ley indígena\") or law n° 19 253, promulgated on September 28, 1993, which recognized in particular the Mapuche people as inherent part of the Chilean nation. Other indigenous people officially recognized included Aymaras, Atacameñas, Collas, Quechuas, Rapa-Nui, Yámanas and Kawashkars. Despite this state proclamation of indigenous rights, conflicts brought by land-occupations and Mapuche's claims led to state repression and the use of the anti-terrorist law against Mapuche activists, a law voted by the military \"junta\".\n\nPreparing for the 1993 election, the Concertación held primaries in May 1993, opposing on its left-wing Ricardo Lagos (PPD) to Christian-Democrat Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, (PDC), the son of former President Eduardo Frei Montalva (1911–1982, President from 1964 to 1970). Eduardo Frei won these primaries by a large majority of 63%.\n\nThe right-wing, grouped in the Alliance for Chile, also held primaries opposing Sebastián Piñera (National Renewal, RN, the largest right-wing party at the time), who had supported the \"NO\" during the 1988 plebiscite on the return to civilian rule, to Arturo Alessandri Besa, former member of the National Party (PN, opposed to Eduardo Frei in the 1970 presidential election) and currently representant of the Independent Democrat Union (UDI). Alessandri won those, and thus represented the Alliance for Chile against the Concertación.\n\nOthers candidates included José Piñera, former Minister in the early 1980s who had implemented the law granting property of copper to the Chilean Armed Forces, who presented himself as an independent (6%); ecologist Manfred Max-Neef (5.55%), representative of the \"Left-Wing Democratic Alternative\" (which gathered the Communist Party (PCC), MAPU (part of the Popular Unity coalition of Allende) and the Christian Left Party); Eugenio Pizarro Poblete (less than 5%); and finally Cristián Reitze Campos of the left-wing Humanist Party (1.1%).\n\nOn 28 May 1993, the \"Boinazo\" took place, during which paratroopers surrounded the Chilean Army headquarters located close-by to the Palacio de la Moneda. The motive of the military uprising was the opening of investigations concerning the \"Pinocheques\", or checks received by Pinochet for a total amount of $3 million in the frame of kickbacks from an arms deal. But, unnoticed at the time, a few days before, Jorge Schaulsohn, President of the Chamber of Deputies, had also denounced irregularities during arms trade committed by the Chilean Army through the intermediary of the FAMAE (Factories and Arsenals of the Army of Chile) — much later connected to the Gerardo Huber case, who was assassinated the year before.\n\nFrei Ruiz-Tagle finally won the election in the first turn, held in December 1993, with an absolute majority of almost 58%, and more than 4 millions votes against Arturo Allesandri who gathered around 1,700 000 votes (24.4%). Eduardo Frei took office in March 1994 and presided for a 6-year term, until 2000. During his term, it was not possible to judge any military for his role during the dictatorship, while large sectors of the Chilean society remained \"Pinochetista\".\n\nFollowing an agreement between Pinochet and Andrés Zaldívar Larraín, president of the Senate, the latter voted to abolish the date of 11 September as a National Holiday which celebrated the 1973 coup. Supporters of Pinochet had blocked until then any such attempt. The same year, Pinochet traveled to London for an operation. Once there, he was arrested on the orders of Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón, provoking worldwide attention, not only because of the history of Chile and South America, but also because this was one of the first arrest of a dictator based on the universal jurisdiction principle. Pinochet tried to defend himself by referring to the State Immunity Act of 1978, an argument rejected by British judicial system. However, UK Home Secretary Jack Straw took the responsibility to release him on medical grounds, and refused to extradite him to Spain. Pinochet returned to Chile in March 2000. Upon descending the plane on his wheelchair, he quickly stood up and saluted the cheering crowd of supporters, including an army band playing his favorite military march tunes, which was awaiting him at the airport in Santiago. President Ricardo Lagos, who had just been sworn in on March 11, said the retired general's televised arrival had damaged the image of Chile, while thousands demonstrated against him.\n\nRepresenting the \"Concertación\" coalition for democracy, Ricardo Lagos had won the election just a few months before, by a very tight score of less than 200,000 votes (51.32%) against Joaquín Lavín (less than 49%), who represented the right-wing Alliance for Chile. None of the six candidates had obtained an absolute majority on the first turn held on December 12, 1999. Lagos was sworn-in on March 11, 2000, for a 6-year term.\n\nIn June 2000, the Congress voted a new law which granted anonymity to members of the armed forces who provide information on the \"desaparecidos\".\n\nMeanwhile, the trials concerning human rights violations during the dictatorship continued. Pinochet was stripped of his parliamentary immunity in August 2000 by the Supreme Court, and indicted by judge Juan Guzmán Tapia. Tapia had ordered in 1999 the arrest of five military men, including General Pedro Espinoza Bravo of the DINA, for their role in the Caravan of Death following the 11 September coup. Arguing that the bodies of the \"disappeared\" were still missing, he made jurisprudence which had as effect to lift any prescription on the crimes committed by the military. Pinochet's trial continued until his death on December 10, 2006, with an alternance (badword) of indictments for specific cases, lifting of immunities by the Supreme Court or to the contrary immunity from prosecution, with his health a main argument for, or against, his prosecution. The Supreme Court affirmed in March 2005 Pinochet's immunity concerning the 1974 assassination of General Carlos Prats in Buenos Aires, which had taken place in the frame of Operation Condor. However, he was deemed fit to stand trial for Operation Colombo, during which 119 political opponents were \"disappeared\" in Argentina. The Chilean justice also lifted his immunity on the Villa Grimaldi case, a detention and torture center in the outskirts of Santiago. Pinochet, who still benefited from a reputation of righteousness from his supporters, lost legitimacy when he was put under house arrest on tax fraud and passport forgery, following the publication by the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of a report concerning the Riggs Bank in July 2004. The report was a consequence of investigations on financial fundings of the September 11, 2001 attacks in the US. The bank controlled between USD $4 million and $8 million of Pinochet's assets, who lived in Santiago in a modest house, dissimulating his wealth. According to the report, Riggs participated in money laundering for Pinochet, setting up offshore shell corporations (referring to Pinochet as only \"a former public official\"), and hiding his accounts from regulatory agencies. Related to Pinochet's and his family secret bank accounts in United States and in Caraïbs islands, this tax fraud filing for an amount of 27 million dollars shocked the conservative sectors who still supported him. Ninety percent of these funds would have been raised between 1990 and 1998, when Pinochet was chief of the Chilean armies, and would essentially have come from weapons traffic (when purchasing Belgian 'Mirage' air-fighters in 1994, Dutch 'Léopard' tanks, Swiss 'Mowag' tanks or by illegal sales of weapons to Croatia, in the middle of the Balkans war.) His wife, Lucía Hiriart, and his son, Marco Antonio Pinochet, were also sued for complicity. For the fourth time in seven years, Pinochet was indicted by the Chilean justice.\n\nThe Chilean authorities took control in August 2005 of the Colonia Dignidad concentration camp, directed by ex-Nazi Paul Schäfer.\n\nOver 50 reforms to Pinochet's Constitution were approved in 2005, which eliminated some of the remaining undemocratic areas of the text, such as the existence of non-elected Senators (institutional senators, or senators for life) and the inability of the President to remove the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. These reforms led the President to controversially declare Chile's transition to democracy as complete. However, the anti-terrorist measures of it remained in force, and have been used against the Mapuches. Furthermore, the military still receives money from the copper industry.\n\nIn 2006, the \"Concertación\" again won the presidential election: Michelle Bachelet, Chile's first woman president, beat Sebastián Piñera (Alliance for Chile), and obtained more than 53% of the vote. Bachelet's first political crisis occurred with massive protests by student, who were demanding free bus fares and the waiving of the university admissions test (PSU) fee, as well as the longer-term demands, which included: the abolition of the Organic Constitutional Law on Teaching (LOCE), an end to municipalization of subsidized education, a reform to the Full-time School Day policy (JEC) and a quality education for all. The protests peaked on May 30, 2006, when 790,000 students adhered to strikes and marches throughout the country, becoming Chile's largest student demonstration of the past three decades.\n\nThe 2006–2007 Chilean corruption scandals were a series of events in which the Chilean governing \"Concertación\" was under investigations of corruption.\n\nIn June 2007, General Raúl Iturriaga, the former deputy director of the DINA, was sentenced to five years' imprisonment for the abduction of Luis Dagoberto San Martin in 1974. Iturriaga had been in hiding from the authorities for a number of years but was arrested in August 2007.\n\nThe CUT trade-union federation called for demonstrations in August 2007. These went on during the night, and at least 670 people were arrested (including journalists and a mayor, and 33 \"carabineros\" injured. The protests were aimed against the Bachelet's government free market policies. Socialist Senator Alejandro Navarro was injured by the police during the demonstrations, although it later emerged that he had hit and kicked police and is currently under investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee. Senators from the opposition have requested that Navarro and other congressmen who participated in the protest be removed from Congress for violating the constitutional article which bans congressmen from participating demonstrations which \"violate the peace\".\n\nIn August 2007, a BBC correspondent wrote that about three million workers, roughly half the workforce, earned the minimum wage of $260 (£130) a month. At the same time, Arturo Martínez, general secretary of the CUT, requested explanations from the government, and accused it of having stirred up the tension. Politicians from the center-right \"Alianza\" and from the governing center-left \"Concertación\" have in turn criticized the CUT for the violence of the protest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38022690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38022690", "title": "Clarisse House", "text": "Clarisse House\n\nThe Clarisse House is the official residence of the Prime Minister of Mauritius at 37, Riverwalk Vacoas, Plaines Wilhems. It is frequently used for governmental conferences, summits and other official purposes, including the Prime Minister's New Year Speech. The current occupant of this house is the present Prime Minister, Pravind Jugnauth. The Prime Minister's Office is located at Port Louis.\n\nThe house was originally built by Edmond de Chazal, he named it after his wife (née Claire Rouillard) 'Clary House'. The domains had an area of 5 acres and 88 perches.\n\n"}
{"id": "1091049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091049", "title": "Dube on 2", "text": "Dube on 2\n\nDube on 2 was a South African television comedy talk show and sketch comedy show hosted by Desmond Dube, and broadcast by SABC 2 from 2004 to 2007. Regular cast members include Lee Duru, John Lata, and (in the second season) Angela de Villiers, among others. South African celebrities—such as Ishmael, Simphiwe Dana, and Lebo Mathosa—made guest appearances on the show.\n"}
{"id": "6702472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6702472", "title": "Flag of the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic", "text": "Flag of the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic\n\nThe flag of the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic (, \"Flag Zakavkázskoj SFSR\") was adopted by the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic in the 1930s.\n\nPrior to this, the flag was red with the Cyrillic characters \"ЗСФСР\" in gold in a sans-serif font.\n"}
{"id": "5711645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5711645", "title": "In the Disco", "text": "In the Disco\n\n\"In the Disco\" was the Bosnia-Herzegovinian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004, performed entirely in English (the first time the country had not sung at least partly in one of its official languages) by Deen.\n\nAs Bosnia had not finished in the top ten in the previous Contest, the song was performed in the semi-final. Here, it was performed twenty-first (following Serbia and Montenegro's Željko Joksimović & Ad Hoc Orchestra with \"Lane Moje\" and preceding the Netherlands's Re-Union with \"Without You\"). It received 133 points to place 7th in the 22-song semi-final and qualify for the final.\n\nIn the final, it was performed twelfth (following Croatia's Ivan Mikulić with You Are The Only One and preceding Belgium's Xandee with \"1 Life\"). At the close of voting, it had received 91 points, placing 9th in a field of 24 and qualifying Bosnia for the final at the next Contest.\n\nThe song is an up-tempo Eurodisco number, with Deen expressing his desire to \"stay all night, in the disco\".\n\nIt was succeeded as Bosnian and Herzegovinian representative at the 2005 Contest by Feminnem with \"Call Me\".\n"}
{"id": "51411071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51411071", "title": "Intelsat 29e", "text": "Intelsat 29e\n\nIntelsat 29e, also known as IS-29e is a high throughput geostationary communications satellite designed and manufactured by Boeing on the BSS-702MP platform. It is the first satellite of the Epic service, and covers CONUS, Latin America and North America from the 50° West longitude, where it is replaced Intelsat 1R. It also replaced Intelsat 805 which was moved from 56.5° West to 169° East. It has a mixed C band, K band and K band payload with all bands featuring wide and the K also featuring spot beams.\n\nThe spacecraft was designed and manufactured by Boeing on the Boeing 702MP satellite bus. It has a launch mass of and a design life of more than 15 years. When stowed for launch, the satellite measures .\n\nIt is powered by two wings, with four panels each, of triple-junction GsAs solar cells, that span when deployed. Intelsat 29e can generate 15.8 Kw at the end of its expected life and has four Li-ion batteries.\n\nThis three axis stabilized platform has a bi-propellant propulsion system using NTO/NO. It has a Liquid Apogee Engine for orbit raising and and thrusters for station keeping. The propellant tanks hold approximately of NO and of NTO. This new series of geosynchronous satellites lack an Earth Sensor, and thus enter Earth pointing attitude based on the orbital position as determined by the star tracker.\n\nIts payload is the first high throughput Epic deployment, of the six planned as of January 2016. The Epic is characterized by the implementation of frequency reuse due to a mix of frequency and polarization in small spot beams. Not only applied to the classical HTS K band, but also applying the same technique in K band and C band. The Epic series also keep the use of wide beams to offer high throughput and broadcast capabilities in the same satellite.\n\nThe payload is designed and manufactured by Boeing based on the work of the WGS constellation. It most innovative feature of this fully digital payload, is that it enables to dynamically link two sites through a single satellite without needing to go through a ground station.\n\nIn the case of Intelsat 29e, the C band side has 14 physical transponders with a bandwidth 864 MHz K or 24 transponder equivalent. It covers South America in a wide beam. The K band has physical 56 transponders (249 transponder equivalent) for a total bandwidth of 9,395 MHz. The K spot beams cover the Americas and the North Atlantic route, while a wide beam can broadcast to North America and North Atlantic. The K band payload has 450 MHz of bandwidth on a global beam centered at its position.\n\nIn July 2009, Intelsat became the first customer of the Boeing 702MP platform, when it place an order for four spacecrafts, Intelsat 21, Intelsat 22, Intelsat 27 and what would become Intelsat 29e.\n\nOn June 7, 2012, Intelsat announced the Epic platform. It would improve available bandwidth due to the use of frequency reuse and polarization and feature spot and wide beams, enabling high bandwidth and broadcast applications on a backward compatible way. The first two satellites would be Intelsat 29e and Intelsat 33e. On September 4, 2012, Intelsat and Boeing announced that Intelsat 29e, the first Epic satellite, would be made by Boeing on the 702MP platform, completing the 2009 order of four such satellites.\n\nIn May 2013 Intelsat ordered a further four 702MP-based Epic satellites, Intelsat 32e, Intelsat 33e and two as of August 2016 unnamed spacecraft. And in July 2014 a sixth Epic was ordered, Intelsat 35e.\n\nDuring 2013, Intelsat signed a contract to launch Intelsat 29e aboard an Ariane 5. Brian Sing, was assigned as Senior Program Manager for the launch aboard the rocket.\n\nDuring June 2015, the payload was integrated and went through testing. First it was deployed and stowed back, then it went through sound environment and vibration testing, and finally deployment was tested again. On July 14, 2015, the payload integration to the satellite bus and its non-environmental testing was completed. It would then go through the environmental testing campaign which would start with thermal vacuum chamber tests. It is a Boeing design based on the work of the WGS constellation.\n\nOn December 10, 2015, Intelsat announced that the launch date for Intelsat 29e had been set for January 27, 2016.\n\nAfter four years of project development, Intelsat 29e arrived to the launch site aboard an Antonov 124 on December 11, 2015. At the site's Payload Processing Facility, Boeing technicians unpackaged the spacecraft and associated equipment and performed a quick fit check. On the second weeks of January, 2016, the satellite was fueled and installed in the rocket payload adapter. By January 21, the spacecraft had been moved to the Final Assembly Building where it was mated to the launcher rocket. On January 26, 2016 all checks were completed and the launch review for the next day was completed.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, at 23:20 UTC, an Ariane 5 ECA launched from the ELA-3 launch pad at the Guiana Space Center. Intelsat 29e, its only passenger, separated 30 minutes later, and the satellite first signals were received shortly afterwards by the Kumsan, South Korea, Ground Station. The next two days were spent evaluating the health of the satellite and determining the exact orbit, then a series of nine orbital maneuvers to raise the perigee to were started. This orbit circularization would consume approximately of propellant.\n\nWhen it reached its test position at 49.7° West, it deployed its antennas and solar panels. In a March 28, 2016 blog by Duy Nguyen, Senior Program Manager, it was announced that Intelsat 29e had successfully passed the 30-day payload in-orbit testing (PIOT) and was undergoing the first performance testing with an anchor customer. It had been particularly challenging because it was the first digital configurable payload for Intelsat, and they had to also test the ground segment for the first time.\n"}
{"id": "3329434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3329434", "title": "Jacobstads Wapen", "text": "Jacobstads Wapen\n\nThe Jacobstads Wapen is a modern replica of an 18th-century galeas built in Jakobstad, Finland, between 1988 and 1994. She is built according to blueprints by the Swedish warship architect Fredrik Henrik af Chapman dating from 1755, the oldest vessel blueprints found in Finland. She is classified by the Finnish national board of navigation as a passenger, special-purpose vessel. The 18th century galleon \"Jacobstads Wapen\" was sold off in Amsterdam.\n\nShe has been used as a symbol for Jakobstad but as of late has encountered financial problems. She participated in the festivities at the 300 year anniversary of St. Petersburg, Russia, in 2003. In 2005 it was discovered that some of the woodwork had deteriorated and is currently awaiting renovations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40421296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40421296", "title": "John F. Kennedys Plads", "text": "John F. Kennedys Plads\n\nJohn F. Kennedys Plads (\"John F. Kennedy's Square\") is located in central Aalborg, Denmark. Dedicated to the 35th President of the United States, it contains a horse and rider statue of Christian IX of Denmark. Reserved for pedestrians, the site is constructed of granite and concrete tiles. Aalborg Train Station, Aalborg Bus Terminal, Kennedy Arcade, and Park Hotel Aalborg are adjacent to the square.\n"}
{"id": "2328325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328325", "title": "Juneau International Airport", "text": "Juneau International Airport\n\nJuneau International Airport is a city-owned, public-use airport and seaplane base located seven nautical miles (8 mi, 13 km) northwest of the central business district of Juneau, a city and borough in the U.S. state of Alaska that has no direct road access to the outside world. The airport serves as a regional hub for all air travel, from bush carriers to a major U.S. air carrier, Alaska Airlines.\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2015-2019 categorized it as a \"primary commercial service (nonhub)\" airport based on 353,048 enplanements (boardings) in 2012. As per the Federal Aviation Administration, this airport had 378,741 passenger enplanements in calendar year 2008, 337,038 in 2009, and 344,057 in 2010.\n\nDuring World War II, Juneau Airport was used by the United States Army Air Forces as a transport link between the combat bases being established in the Aleutians and airfields in the Continental United States. It was also used by Air Transport Command and facilitated the transport of Lend-Lease aircraft to the Soviet Union via Nome (Marks Army Airfield).\n\nPan American World Airways (Pan Am) was one of the first major airlines to serve Juneau. In 1947, Pan Am was operating daily Douglas DC-4 propliner service to Seattle via a stop at the Annette Island Airport, which served Ketchikan at the time and also flew DC-4 service twice a week nonstop to Whitehorse in the Yukon Territory of Canada with continuing, no change of plane service to Fairbanks, Galena and Nome in Alaska. Pan Am later operated Douglas DC-6B and Boeing 377 Stratocruiser aircraft into the airport. During the 1950s, Pacific Northern Airlines served the airport with Douglas DC-4 and Lockheed Constellation propliners with daily service to Seattle via a stop at Annette Island as well as nonstop to Anchorage and Yakutat and direct to Cordova in Alaska.\n\nThe jet age arrived in Juneau during the early 1960s. In 1963, Pan Am was operating daily Boeing 707 jetliner flights to Seattle via a stop at Annette Island. By 1965, Pacific Northern was operating Boeing 720 jets nonstop to Seattle, Anchorage and Annette Island. In 1967, Pacific Northern was acquired by and merged into Western Airlines, which continued to operate jet service into the airport. By 1968, Western was operating daily nonstop Boeing 720B jet service to Seattle, Anchorage and Annette Island with one stop direct service to Los Angeles. By 1969, Alaska Airlines was operating Boeing 727-100 jet service into the airport on a daily basis with a round trip routing of Seattle - Sitka - Juneau - Yakutat - Cordova - Anchorage - Unalakleet - Nome - Kotzebue. Alaska Air has served Juneau for over 45 years and primarily operated Boeing 727-100, 727-200 and 737-200 jetliners into the airport (including the Boeing 737-200 passenger/freight Combi aircraft) in addition to Boeing 720 jetliners before switching to later model Boeing 737 jets. Besides operating jet service into Juneau, Alaska Airlines also flew smaller prop and turboprop aircraft from the airport in the past including the Convair 240, de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter and two versions of the Grumman Goose amphibian aircraft, being a piston powered model and a turboprop version with the latter being named the \"Turbo-Goose\" by the airline. Alaska Airlines began serving Juneau during the late 1960s following its acquisition of two local air service carriers, Alaska Coastal Airlines, which was based in Juneau, and Cordova Airlines.Other air carriers that served Juneau over the years included Wien Air Alaska and MarkAir, which had both been based in Alaska. Western Airlines also returned to Juneau after ceasing service during the early 1970s. In 1968, Wien was operating Fairchild F-27 turboprop flights into the airport three days a week on a routing of Juneau - Whitehorse - Fairbanks. By 1977, Wien was flying Boeing 737-200 jet service twice a week from the airport on a routing of Juneau - Whitehorse - Fairbanks - Anchorage and by 1979 the airline was operating daily nonstop 737-200 jet flights to Seattle and Anchorage. During the early and mid 1980s, Western was operating daily nonstop Boeing 727-200 service to Seattle. Following its acquisition of and merger with Western in 1987, Delta Air Lines continued to serve Juneau with daily nonstop Boeing 727-200 flights to Seattle and direct, one stop service to Los Angeles into the early 1990s. In 1995, MarkAir operated daily nonstop Boeing 737-400 jet service to Seattle and Anchorage. In 2014, Delta Air Lines returned to Juneau offering first seasonal, and then year round service before leaving the market again at the end of 2016 and now serves Juneau on a seasonal basis. Delta entering the market to compete with Alaska Air resulted in fares to Seattle being reduced almost by half.\n\nJuneau International Airport covers an area of 662 acres (268 ha) at an elevation of 25 feet (8 m) above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 8/26 with an asphalt surface measuring 8,857 by 150 feet (2,700 x 46 m). It also has one seaplane landing area designated 8W/26W, which measures 4,600 by 150 feet (1,402 x 46 m).\n\nFor the 12-month period ending December 31, 2017, the airport had 108,885 aircraft operations, an average of 298 per day: 79% air taxi, 12% general aviation, 8% scheduled commercial, and <1% military. At that time 275 aircraft were based at this airport: 87% single-engine, 1% multi-engine, <1% jet, 10% helicopter, and 1% military.\nAside from providing passenger service, Alaska Airlines also operates Boeing 737-700 jet freighter cargo flight service into Juneau.\n\nBecause of the extreme geography of Southeastern Alaska, land flat enough for airport facilities is at a premium. One of these few areas is the current location of the airport: the Mendenhall Wetlands State Game Refuge, a vastly diverse and ecologically critical region rich with plant life, small mammals, birds, several species of salmon, even black bears and bald eagles. The original airstrip was built in the 1930s, and no environmental impact analysis was performed at that time. The area currently housing the terminal and runways had to be filled in and part of the Gastineau Channel had to be dredged before the airport, in its current incarnation, could be built.\n\nThe airport is the only way in and out of the city, with exception of the Alaska Marine Highway and cargo ships traversing the Inside Passage. In the past, concerns have been raised over the safety of the airport, which is comparatively quite small, with the amount of air traffic it receives. In addition to frequent arrivals and departures from hubs such as Anchorage and Seattle/Tacoma, the airport also has daily and/or weekly service to smaller regional communities, a floatplane runway/docking area, and a heliport. Three major construction projects are planned at the airport within the next few years. An airport terminal renovation project will be the first comprehensive upgrade to the passenger facilities in over twenty years and will provide for better flow through the passenger screening process. The airfield maintenance facilities project will provide much needed room for storage and servicing of snow removal equipment. The runway safety area project will extend the runway at both ends and improve taxiways to meet Federal Aviation Administration requirements.\n\nOn September 4, 1971, Alaska Airlines Flight 1866, a Boeing 727-100, crashed into the easterly slope of a canyon in the Chilkat Range of the Tongass National Forest while on approach to Juneau International Airport. All 111 passengers and crew on board were killed. At the time it was the worst single airplane air disaster in United States history.\n\n"}
{"id": "4349574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4349574", "title": "Kaffee Alt Wien", "text": "Kaffee Alt Wien\n\nKaffee Alt Wien is a traditional Viennese café located at Bäckerstraße 9 in the Innere Stadt first district in Vienna, Austria. It was established in 1936 by Leopold Hawelka and his wife Josefine on the day after their wedding. They ran the café until 1939 at which time they moved to Dorotheergasse, where they opened a new coffee house, the famous Café Hawelka.\n\nThe Alt Wien is nowadays not one of Vienna's chic coffee houses, but instead rather smoky and gloomy, and the clientele often includes bizarre characters. Consequently, in 1976, a notable happening by the Viennese artist Gottfried Helnwein took place in the café. Since the 1980s, the Kaffee Alt Wien has developed into a night café.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34953519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953519", "title": "Kinshasa palace", "text": "Kinshasa palace\n\nKinshasa palace is a 2006 film.\n\nA man about whom we know very little searches for his brother who disappeared after leaving his children at the station. As he traces his steps through Paris, Kinshasa, Brussels, Lisbon and Cambodia, childhood memories flood back. Little by little, he metamorphoses until it’s difficult to tell him apart from his missing brother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27834679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27834679", "title": "Le Fils de-la-femme-mâle", "text": "Le Fils de-la-femme-mâle\n\nLe fils de la femme male is a novel by Ivorian author Maurice Bandaman. It won the Grand prix littéraire d'Afrique noire in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "69058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69058", "title": "List of countries and dependencies by population", "text": "List of countries and dependencies by population\n\nThis is a list of countries and dependent territories by population. It includes sovereign states, inhabited dependent territories and, in some cases, constituent countries of sovereign states, with inclusion within the list being primarily based on the ISO standard ISO 3166-1. For instance, the United Kingdom is considered as a single entity while the constituent countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands are considered separately. In addition, this list includes certain states with limited recognition not found in ISO 3166-1.\n\nAlso given in percent is each country's population compared with the population of the world, which the United Nations estimates at /1000000000 round 2 billion as of today.\n\nFigures used in this chart are based on the most up to date estimate or projections by the national census authority where available, and are usually rounded off. Where updated national data are not available, figures are based on the projections for 2018 by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.\n\nBecause the compiled figures are not collected at the same time in every country, or at the same level of accuracy, the resulting numerical comparisons may create misleading conclusions. Furthermore, the addition of figures from all countries may not equal the world total. A handful of nations have not conducted a census in over 30 years, providing high error margin estimates only.\n\nAreas that form integral parts of sovereign states, such as the countries of the United Kingdom, are counted as part of the sovereign states concerned. Not included are other entities, such as the European Union,\nthat are not sovereign states, and independent territories that do not have permanent populations, such as various countries' claims to Antarctica.\n\nNote: All dependent territories or constituent countries that are parts of sovereign states are shown in \"italics\" and not assigned a numbered rank.\n\n\nLists of countries by population\n\nContinental\n\n\nIntercontinental\n\n"}
{"id": "47723564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47723564", "title": "Michele Cachia", "text": "Michele Cachia\n\nMichele Cachia (, 30 September 1760 – 24 January 1839) was a Maltese architect and military engineer. He is also known for his role during the Maltese uprising of 1798–1800.\n\nMichele Cachia was born on 30 September 1760 in the town of Żejtun. He was the cousin of Antonio Cachia, another architect and engineer. In April 1784, he applied for the post of \"perito agrimensore\". Like his father and grandfather, Cachia also worked in the construction of the Żejtun Parish Church. He was also an adjutant within the Żejtun militia while Malta was ruled by the Order of St. John.\n\nCachia took part in the Maltese uprising of 1798–1800 against the French occupation of Malta. He designed a number of batteries for the insurgents, including the Corradino Batteries, Tal-Borg Battery and the Żejtun Batteries. In 1799, he also designed a gunpowder magazine at San Rocco Battery.\n\nBetween 1801 and 1821, Cachia lived in Floriana, a suburb of the capital Valletta. In 1802, he went to England as part of a delegation of Maltese people.\n\nCachia was responsible for the construction of the hospital in Rabat, Gozo. His most famous work is the portico of the Church of Our Lady of Divine Providence in Siġġiewi, which he designed after the church was damaged by a lightning strike in 1815 The church had been built in the 18th century to designs of Andrea Belli.\n\nCachia had a collection of notebooks containing personal notes about property in Valletta. 217 notebooks have survived, and they contain a lot of information about the city in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.\n"}
{"id": "8927698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8927698", "title": "Military Committee for National Salvation", "text": "Military Committee for National Salvation\n\nThe Military Committee for National Salvation (French, \"Comité Militaire de Salut National\", CMSN) was a military government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania that took power in 1979. It was installed by Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla, Ahmed Ould Bouceif and fellow officers, in an internal regime/military coup d'état on April 6, 1979, removing Col. Mustapha Ould Salek of the Military Committee for National Recovery (CRMN) from effective power. He was replaced by Mohamed Mahmoud Ould Louly in May 1979; Haidallah would later emerge as the main military strongman, and go on to assume full powers, only to be deposed by Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya. The CMSN remained as an institution until 1992, when Taya introduced a multi-party system - he himself lost power only in 2005.\n\nThe main achievement of the CMSN was to make peace with the Western Saharan Polisario Front, which had been fighting Mauritania since the government of President Moktar Ould Daddah invaded the country in 1975. The CMSN opted for complete withdrawal from the conflict, evacuating southern Rio de Oro (which had been annexed as Tiris El Gharbiya) and recognizing the Polisario as the representative of the Sahrawi people; this led to a crisis in relations with Morocco, which had similarly annexed the northern two-thirds of the country, and was also facing Sahrawi resistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "45028595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45028595", "title": "Ministry of Revenues and Duties", "text": "Ministry of Revenues and Duties\n\nThe Ministry of Revenues and Duties () was a government ministry of Ukraine.\n\nThe ministry was created on 24 December 2012 by a Decree of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and it merged the country's State Tax Service and the State Customs Service. Its first and only minister was Oleksandr Klymenko. On 1 March 2014 the ministry was liquidated. Its agencies were transferred to the Ministry of Finance.\n\nOn May 27, 2014 it was announced that the ministry will be reorganized into the State Fiscal Service and will be subordinated to the Ministry of Finances.\n\nThe building of this ministry contained a large jacuzzi; angelic fresco on the ceiling; a deluxe sauna and a \"salt room\" (with the floor and ceiling covered in salt); allegedly bare-knuckle boxing matches were held in a specially designed room for it in the building.\n\nSince 31 May 2014 Klymenko is wanted by the General Prosecutor of Ukraine for the creation of tax evasion procedures to significantly reducing the customs value of certain companies. An alleged example of this is the setting up of non-existing firms to whittle tax obligations. This and other alleged crimes are to have costed the state budget of Ukraine 6 billion Ukrainian hryvnia. Klymenko has denied all allegations against him and has called them \"groundless\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6703266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6703266", "title": "Nanjing Radio", "text": "Nanjing Radio\n\nNanjing Radio (Group), (Chinese: 江南广播网, Pinyin: Jiāngnán Guǎngbō Wǎng, translated as \"South River Broadcasting Station\") is a family of radio stations that serve the Nanjing China area. It is also associated with the Nanjing Television Broadcast Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43652955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43652955", "title": "Nepalese Military Academy", "text": "Nepalese Military Academy\n\nThe Nepalese Military Academy is an officer's training institute of Nepalese Army located at Kharipati, Bhaktapur. The mission statement of the academy is to \"commission proficient platoon commanders, who are professionally capable of fulfilling their assigned responsibilities skilfully with vigour\". It was founded on December 26, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "49839623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49839623", "title": "No. 92 Squadron RSAF", "text": "No. 92 Squadron RSAF\n\nNo. 92 Squadron RSAF is a squadron of the Royal Saudi Air Force that operates the McDonnell Douglas F-15S Strike Eagle from King Abdulaziz Air Base, Dhahran.\n"}
{"id": "13811030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13811030", "title": "Paddle doll", "text": "Paddle doll\n\nPaddle dolls are a type of female figurine found in Ancient Egyptian tombs, beginning in the Predynastic period and particularly in the Middle Kingdom (2040–1750 BC). Female statuettes made of clay, found in later burials, are considered a later development of these sometimes elaborately coiffured wooden dolls.\n\nPaddle dolls were often highly stylized, and archaeologists currently suggest that the emphasis on the breast, hips and pubic area - the sexual characteristics of the figure - symbolizes the sexual aspects of regeneration. This theory identifies the artifacts as fertility symbols placed in burials to guarantee eternal rebirth. Other theories assert that the dolls may have been placed in tombs to do jobs for the deceased in the Osirian afterworld, to protect the deceased or to provide entertainment. The latter hypothesis is bolstered by the burial of dolls often in groups with the accoutrements of dancers and musicians used by performing troupes (khener). Some wooden dolls exhibit extensive wear, suggesting they may have been played with and thus represent toys.\n\nSeveral types of paddle dolls have been discovered in tombs in Egypt. The dolls are made of wood, flat, and constructed in a shape has led the form to be called a 'paddle doll'. The dolls seemingly follow a convention for the female figure, emphasizing the hips and hair. The wooden figures are usually painted with a geometric pattern of lines and dots. These patterns may reproduce tattoos or ritual scarring in female Egyptian culture of the period or represent clothing or jewelry. Some have hair composed of unfired clay and faience beads strung on flax fiber, sometimes interwoven with squares of straw to imitate gold hair rings.\n\nA fine example of a paddle doll with hair constructed of string and sun-dried clay beads, found in a tomb in Ancient Egypt, is on display at the British Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "23217845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23217845", "title": "Porcelain Palace", "text": "Porcelain Palace\n\nPorcelain Palace is a large public toilet complex at the Foreigners' Street amusement park in the city of Chongqing, China.\n\nThe facade of the complex was inspired by ancient Egyptian art. A toilet complex to the south is in the distinctive style of the Spanish Catalan architect Antoni Gaudi. The complex contains a total of more than 1,000 toilets and urinals making it the largest toilet complex in the world.\n\nThe massive toilet edifice is more than in size and has been submitted by Chinese authorities to the Guinness Book of World Records.\n\nThe Porcelain Palace has been purged of artworks and facilities seen as vulgar by the Chinese authorities. The Love Land sex theme park attraction would have been near the Porcelain Palace and Foreigners' Street. This was due to be opened in 2009, but was demolished by the authorities before it actually opened.\n"}
{"id": "15183301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15183301", "title": "Primetime 24", "text": "Primetime 24\n\nPrimetime 24 (PT24) was a special package offered on C band satellite sent out to viewers who mainly live in remote and distant locations. The package consisted of local ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox affiliates on the East Coast: The service was broadcast via the AMC-3 satellite, encrypted using DigiCipher 2. Until 2012, the service was owned by Lorac Communications, based in Collingwood, Ontario, Canada.\n\nWhen Primetime 24 first started in 1992, the group originally consisted of:\n\n\nIn 1994, however, the two Chicago stations were replaced with WRAL-TV Raleigh, North Carolina for CBS and WSVN Miami for Fox; by 1997, PT24 dropped Fox, and WRAL, due to many pre-emptions of CBS programming, was replaced with WSEE-TV Erie, Pennsylvania, which has been PT24's CBS affiliate ever since. WABC and WXIA still remained the ABC and NBC (respectively) affiliates for PT24 through 2008; however, for a time, WABC was replaced with WJLA-TV of Washington, D.C. and later WKRN-TV of Nashville, Tennessee; WXIA was replaced with WNBC of New York City, and later was replaced by WTVJ in Miami. WABC was dropped in favor of WPLG on January 1, 2009, and Fox was restored by adding WUTV of Buffalo, New York.\n\nAt one point, PT24 offered a package called \"The Denver 5\", featuring that city's KMGH-TV (ABC), KCNC-TV (CBS), KUSA (NBC), KDVR (Fox), and even a PBS station, KRMA. At one point, WB affiliate KWGN-TV was added to the mix.\n\nStations on the West Coast were also included in the late 1990s and early 2000s, featuring Seattle, Washington's KOMO-TV (ABC), San Francisco's KPIX-TV (CBS), and Los Angeles' KNBC (NBC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32314931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32314931", "title": "Pulau Ayu", "text": "Pulau Ayu\n\nPulau Ayu, often called Pulau Aju, Ayau or simply Ajoe, is a small Indonesian island located in the Ayu Islands above the northern tip of the Waigeo Islands.\n\nPulau Ayu is part of the Raja Ampat regency of the West Papua geographical and administrative region of Indonesia.\n\nThe two major settlements on the island include Imbik Kuan and Ayu.\n\nThe island is surrounded by two large reefs.\n\nPulau Reni and Pulau Kanobe are two other small inhabited islands north of Pulau Ayu.\n\nAccess to the island is limited to small boats due to the reefs and the small size of the island.\n\nPulau Ayu and all the islands in the Ayu Archipelago were occupied by the Japanese Empire during World War II from 1942 until the end of the war in 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "51805214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51805214", "title": "René Héctor Émile Chazal", "text": "René Héctor Émile Chazal\n\nRené Héctor Émile Chazal was a French colonial administrator. He served as lieutenant governor of Mauritania from 21 November 1929 to 19 June 1931. French soldier and former governor of Mauritania Henri Gaden sharply criticized Chazal's appointment, writing, \"Chauzal knows nothing about Mauritania, nor the Moors, nor about any other populations of this type. While governor, Chazal imprisoned spiritual leader Yacouba Sylla, whom he considered a great threat. It is likely that Chazal was dismissed as lieutenant governor due to a pamphlet by Louis Hunkanrin that sharply criticized his approach to slavery.\n\n"}
{"id": "12913655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12913655", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Gokwe", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Gokwe\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Gokwe () is a suffragan diocese in the city of Gokwe in the ecclesiastical province of Harare in Zimbabwe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13219486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13219486", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Pointe-Noire", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Pointe-Noire\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Pointe-Noire () is a diocese located in the city of Pointe-Noire in the Ecclesiastical province of Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43578413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43578413", "title": "Russia at the 2014 European Athletics Championships", "text": "Russia at the 2014 European Athletics Championships\n\nRussia competed at the 2014 European Athletics Championships in Zürich, Switzerland, between 12 and 17 August 2014. A delegation of 93 athletes were sent to represent the country.\n"}
{"id": "1065301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065301", "title": "Softwin", "text": "Softwin\n\nSOFTWIN, founded in 1990 by Florin and Măriuca Talpeș, is a software company based in Bucharest, Romania with offices in Tettnang (Germany), Barcelona (Spain), Fort Lauderdale (United States), London (Great Britain) and Copenhagen (Denmark). SOFTWIN is a private company and is the producer of the \"BitDefender\" anti-virus engine.\n\nSoftwin competes in the antivirus industry against Avira, ESET, F-Secure, Kaspersky, McAfee, Sophos and Symantec among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "35018561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35018561", "title": "Sunrise FM (Ghana)", "text": "Sunrise FM (Ghana)\n\nSunrise FM is a public radio station in Koforidua, the capital town of the Eastern region of Ghana. It is located in Effiduase a suburb of the Koforidua township. The station is owned and run by the state broadcaster, the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation.\n"}
{"id": "28138772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28138772", "title": "Themisonium", "text": "Themisonium\n\nThemisonium was a city in the late Roman province of Phrygia Pacatiana Prima. \n\nIts bishopric was a suffragan of Laodicea in Phrygia, the capital and metropolitan see of the province.\n"}
{"id": "43730523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43730523", "title": "Torre Lúgano", "text": "Torre Lúgano\n\nThe Torre Lúgano is a residential building in Benidorm, Spain and measured 148 meters in height. It is the third highest building in Benidorm, and the ninth tallest building in Spain.\n\n"}
