{"id": "24309450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24309450", "title": "Adrian Molin", "text": "Adrian Molin\n\nAdrian Leopold Molin (5 March 1880 - 10 August 1942) was a Swedish far-right writer and political activist.\n\nBorn in Varberg, Molin attended the University of Gothenburg and received his doctorate from the institution in 1906. He then joined the right-wing \"Göteborgs Aftonblad\", then the \"Svenska Dagbladet\" before setting up his own paper in 1907, the \"Det nya Sverige\", which continued until 1926. The young Molin was a disciple of Rudolf Kjellén and a leading figure in the so-called 'Young Right' movement. Ideologically he was highly conservative socially but also anti-capitalist. Molin flirted with corporatism by supporting an occupational franchise as well as some state intervention designed to bring the working class into a national consensus. He combined these ideas with a hatred of both socialism and the Russian Empire.\n\nHis main political involvement was a founder and leading figure in the National Society Against Emigration, set up in 1907 to oppose the drain of Sweden's population to, mainly, the USA. In this capacity he advocated widespread home ownership and the settlement of northern Sweden to stem the flow of migrants from the country. He also supported the building of traditional rural dwellings based on the use of indigenous architecture as part of his fascination with traditional ruralism. Heavily influenced by the philosopher Vitalis Norström, he became highly pro-Germany and showed characteristics of an early form of fascism. \n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s his ruralism began to develop along lines reminiscent of the blood and soil rhetoric of the Nazi Party. Soon Molin became a supporter of Nazism and hoped to apply its principles to Sweden, although he dismissed the indigenous Nazi leader Birger Furugård as a 'parody' of the ideology. His own political activity was restricted to the National Youth League of Sweden, where he became a leading voice on the far right, Nazi wing. \n\nNear the end of his life Molin's enthusiasm for Adolf Hitler cooled as he became disillusioned with some of the excesses of Nazi Germany. However he retained his admiration for their anti-Semitism, hierarchical society and especially the ruralism endorsed by the likes of Richard Walther Darré. It was these themes, as well as his desire for a union of Sweden and Norway as a defensive move against the Soviet Union, that dominated his writings until his death in Lidingö.\n"}
{"id": "32578479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32578479", "title": "Agricultural Research Institute of Ontario", "text": "Agricultural Research Institute of Ontario\n\nThe Agricultural Research Institute of Ontario is a provincial Crown corporation, established in 1962, by the ARIO Act, to \"advocate areas of research for the betterment of agriculture, veterinary medicine and consumer studies\" and \"increase the production efficiency and marketing of agricultural products by stimulating interest in research\".\n\nIt is located adjacent to the University of Guelph campus.\n"}
{"id": "40708699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40708699", "title": "All-payer rate setting", "text": "All-payer rate setting\n\nAll-payer rate setting is a price setting mechanism in which all third parties pay the same price for services at a given hospital. The system does not imply that charges are the same for every hospital. It can be used to increase the market power of payers (such as private and/or public insurance companies) to mitigate inflation in health care costs. All-payer characteristics are found in the health systems of France, Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands. Maryland also uses such a model.\n\nSince the late 1970s, Maryland has operated an all-payer system for hospital services. An independent commission establishes the rate structure for each hospital. That eliminated hospital cost shifting across payers and spread more equitably the costs of uncompensated care and medical education and limited cost growth, but per capita Medicare hospital costs are among the country's highest. It appears that the system eliminated price competition between hospitals and led them to divert high-cost patients to alternative settings, where prices remained unregulated.\n\nMedicare's participation in the system is authorized by the Social Security Act and is tied to a growth limit in payment per admission. The Medicare waiver created incentives to increase the volume of services. Medicare pays higher rates for hospital services in Maryland than it does under the national prospective payment systems.\n\nOn January 10, 2014, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the State announced a new model that will focus on overall per capita expenditures for hospital services as well as on improvements in the quality of care and population health outcomes. For 5 years beginning in 2014, Maryland will limit the growth of per capita hospital costs to the lesser of 3.58% or 0.5% less than the actual national growth rate for 2015 through 2018. The change is forecast to save Medicare at least $330 million. 3.58% is Maryland's historical 10-year growth rate of per capita gross state product.\n\n"}
{"id": "2565422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2565422", "title": "Australian Women's National League", "text": "Australian Women's National League\n\nThe Australian Women's National League (AWNL) was an Australian political lobby group federation first established in 1904. It acted in many ways like a political party, with an extensive branch network and the capability to run its own candidates. It was a conservative organisation with four key declared objectives:\n\n\nThe AWNL was supported in its foundation by the Victorian Employers' Federation and by employer bodies in other states, but it quickly became independent from those male dominated groups, and formed an anti-socialist alliance with the Farmer's League in 1905. The group aimed to espouse anti-socialist ideas to Australian women who had been given the right to vote in Australian federal elections in 1902. \n\nLeading Melbourne establishment figure Janet, Lady Clarke, held a meeting at her home in August 1903 to discuss the formation of such a conservative women's movement. Months later in March 1904, Lady Clarke's sister Eva Hughes organised a meeting at the Melbourne Town Hall. It elected a provisional committee and elected Lady Clarke as its inaugural president\n\nOn 25 October 1907 the League conducted the first Pan-Australian Conference of Anti-Socialist Women's Organisations. The League played an important role in achieving women's suffrage (right to vote) throughout Australia. By 1908, it had 10,000 members in Victoria alone, and helped convince the male conservative members of parliament that women voters would not necessarily be left-wing in disposition. In 1909, Lady Clarke died and was succeeded as President by her sister Eva who stayed in charge until 1922.\n\nThe Liberal prime minister Alfred Deakin in 1912 described the lobby group as \"fierce and unceasing\" in their political demands. He continued \"So far – singlehanded – I have beat them and kept them at bay, but how long can this last?\"\n\nIt was a very active organisation with many suburban and rural branches. It published a monthly journal \"The Woman\". It ran many campaigns, including for greater education in \"domestic science.\" It organised Empire Day festivities in Melbourne for forty years and especially during World War I organised thousands of women to contribute to the war effort. In 1918 it launched \"Baby Week\" as an education campaign for families. It also conducted political education and training courses for its members to make them more effective campaigners.\n\nAt its peak in World War I, the AWNL had 500 registered branches and more than 54,000 members across Australia. Using its massive membership base as a platform for achieving its objectives, it was very active in electoral politics, initially supporting male candidates and forming an important part of conservative political efforts across Australia. They employed women as paid political organisers, raised large amounts of funds and actively supported candidates that sometimes had to go through a preselection process to attract the League's support.\n\nSome years after women had obtained the right to vote and to run for office, most of the first women candidates in Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria were members of the League. While they generally worked with conservative political parties, on occasion they did not. On one occasion when one of their favoured candidates in Queensland was not endorsed as they had demanded, they ran their own candidate, Irene Longman who became the first female member of the Legislative Assembly of Queensland in 1929.\n\nActions such as these, the vast size of the League and its highly skilled political operatives made it one of the most effective and feared political organisations in Australian politics at the time. Male journalists at the time complained about the power of the group \"Political godmothers rule UAP (United Australia Party) with haughty mien... the political fate of the electorate was controlled by women.\"\n\nIn 1944, the AWNL actively supported the newly created Liberal Party of Australia and merged with it in 1945. The League's leaders at the time – including Dame Elizabeth Couchman and future senator Ivy Wedgwood – negotiated a tough deal with Sir Robert Menzies which ensured that women were equally represented at throughout the structures of the Liberal Party, long before the era of affirmative action. It was agreed that the Liberal Party's would reserve certain positions for women, that there would be a Woman Vice-President of the Party and also a Federal Women's Committee, whose president would also sit on the Party's Federal Executive.\n\nMenzies regarded Couchman very highly and described \"She would have been the best cabinet minister I could have wished for.\"\n\nSome argue that the League had a major impact on the Liberal Party's direction leading up to the election in 1949, which they won convincingly. In a highly usual move at the time Liberal advertising specifically made reference to women and women's issues. Images of men and women (and in some cases of women alone) were used in political advertising for the first time on a major scale. Their opponents in the Australian Labor Party were largely silent on women's issues.\n\nWhile the organisation formally resolved to merge with the Liberal Party, some preferred to retain an autonomous group which continued with considerably reduced members and activity for a time.\n\nIn 2004 the Prime Minister of Australia, John Howard, spoke at a function commemorating the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the League, and paid tribute to its important role in the history of the Liberal Party and Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53887749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53887749", "title": "Biosurveillance", "text": "Biosurveillance\n\nBiosurveillance is an aspect of biodefense relating to the detection of bioterrorism threats.\n\nBioWatch is a US government program to detect biological agents present in the environment through a system of filters.\n"}
{"id": "36540769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36540769", "title": "Bosnian Movement of National Pride", "text": "Bosnian Movement of National Pride\n\nBosnian Movement of National Pride (, BPNP) is a nationalist political organization in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The organization was founded on 5 January 2009 by nationalists in Sarajevo. The movement acts in the entirety of Bosnia and Herzegovina through branches in the cities where they exist.\n\n\nThe logo of the movement resembles the coat of arms of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina with some additions like the sword in the middle of the logo. They refer themselves also sometimes as the \"National Front\" which is basically a common used name for the movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5907510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5907510", "title": "British Youth Council", "text": "British Youth Council\n\nThe British Youth Council (BYC) is a UK charity that works to empower young people and promote their interests. BYC, run by young people, exists to represent the views of young people to government and decision-makers at a local, national, European and international level; and to promote the increased participation of young people in society and public life. It is partly funded by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nThe British Youth Council was established by the Foreign Office of the British Government in preparation for the first World Assembly of Youth. Its original aim was to unite young people in Britain against the forces of communism just after World War II.\n\nIn 1963, the Council gained independence from the British Government and became a UK charity championing the opinions of young people.\n\nFrom the late 1960s, the Council expanded its work in connecting youth councils across the UK – a move championed by then staff member John Denham, former Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government.\n\nIn 1971, BYC organised the annual World Assembly of Youth event in Manchester where Prime Minister Edward Heath was the keynote speaker.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the organisation elected David Hunt as chair (now member of the House of Lords) as well as Janet Paraskeva (now First Civil Service Commissioner) and Peter Mandelson.\n\nBYC published the \"Youth Unemployment: Cause and Cures\" report. They also attended the 11th World Festival on Youth in Cuba where motions were passed on the human rights records of the USSR and USA. Delegates include Trevor Phillips, Paul Boateng and Charles Clarke MP.\n\nIn 1987 BYC Scotland closed due to funding cuts by the Government. The British Youth Council also had its Foreign Office grant withdrawn due to the changes in international relations. However, the Council continued topromote local youth councils and was involved in the UK's signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nIn the 1990s BYC worked with partners in campaigns to get young people registered to vote and on issues of young people's employment. They also worked in the field in youth policy and research, producing a number of journals and publications.\n\nNotable publications during this decade include ‘Never Had it So Good: The Truth about being young in nineties Britain’ (1996), and the 1998 report ‘State of the Young Nation’, which asked 1000 young people about their participation in society and their understanding of political processes.\n\nContinuing increase in BYC’s research, consultation and policy work culminated in 2000 with the biggest consultation with young people that the Government had ever commissioned on areas such as education, employment and young people having their say. The conclusion, 'Listening to the Unheard', led the formulation of the European White Paper on Youth which BYC co-ordinated as the UK members of the European Youth Forum.\n\nThe organisation celebrated its 60th birthday in 2008 by engaging ten young people to make a documentary film about British youth culture over the last 60 years; in particular, how young people have been able to influence society and democracy.\n\nAccording to its Annual Review 2008/09: “The BYC is led by young people, for young people aged 25 and under across the UK. We connect with our community of member organisations and network of Local Youth Councils to empower all young people, wherever they’re from, to have a say and be heard. Our take on training and volunteering and our powerful campaigns, both local and global, inspire young people to have a positive impact and make their voices count”\n\nThe British Youth Council’s vision is that all young people are respected, and able to influence and inform decisions which affect their lives or upon which they have strong opinions.\n\nThe British Youth Council’s four values are recognition, equality, diversity and participation.\n\nThe British Youth Council Board of Trustees is made up of 12 young people aged 16–25. These annually elected trustees employ 14 staff and 10 full-time volunteers, and manage a body of young campaigners and media spokespeople. The organisation is a registered charity, and a registered company limited by guarantee, in order to enable the appointment of directors under 18 years old.\n\nThe Council has over 250 members including national youth organisations, faith-based groups, and organisations representing minority groups of young people. In addition, the Council supports a network of 620 youth councils and youth forums, also run by young people.\n\nThe British Youth Council assists young people to represent themselves through activities such as Young People in Parliament Events, having their voices heard by politicians and policy makers. It sets up initiatives that celebrate young people's achievements such as the Royal Society of Arts Young Leader Awards.With support from the House of Commons, the British Youth Council established the Youth Select Committee which, in 2013, held an inquiry into the national curriculum with 11 young panel Members.\n\nThe Council supports young people to find volunteering opportunities and other opportunities for young people through its website, its membership base and through newsletters like the BYC Project and its Online Action Network. \n\nIt coordinates different youth-led networks such as the Local Youth Council Network, UK Youth Parliament & Young Mayors Network\n\nThe British Youth Council now manages Participation Works – a group of national charities working to ensure that every child and young person can influence decisions affecting their lives. They are working with the Children's Rights Alliance for England, The National Youth Agency, the National Council for Voluntary Youth Services, Save the Children (England) and formerly the National Children's Bureau.\n\nThe Council is a founding member of the UK Votes at 16 Coalition. The coalition consist of various organisations and political parties and is led by Children's Rights Alliance for England, the National Union of Students and the Scottish Youth Parliament.\n\nPrior to the 2015 General Election, the Council became a founding member of the UK branch of the League of Young Voters The League's steering group consists of Scottish Youth Parliament, Northern Ireland Youth Forum, Bite The Ballot and the National Union of Students. \nThe Council provides a range of training courses, many funded under schemes like Youth at the Table \n\nThe UK is separated into 12 regions: East Midlands, East of England, London, North East, North West, Northern Ireland, Scotland, South East, South West, Wales, West Midlands and Yorkshire and the Humber. Each hosts 3 annual conferences - known as conventions - which aim to promote and share good practice in Youth Voice work done by young people, including Members of Youth Parliament, Youth Councillors and Young Mayors.\n\nThe Yorkshire and Humber region consists of the Youth Councils of : \n\n\nThrough the support of the Youth York Unit Yorkshire and Humber, an initiative has been established wherein each area elects a representative to the Yorkshire and Humber Youth Voice Steering Group, which meets a minimum of 4 times each year to co-ordinate regional youth voice work and to work on cross-boundary issues such as transport. It is currently chaired by the regional Procedures Group member, Jack Hogan (with Brandon Green as Procedures Group Member-elect, term commencing January 2019) and 2 co-chairs, Kieron Franks and Rowie Maddison.\n\nSince it began, the Council has been involved in international work which aims to develop awareness of international issues and action, and to represent the UK at international events\n\nThe British Youth Council works closely with the British Council to promote participation overseas. It is a member of the European Youth Forum and Commonwealth Youth Exchange Programme and cooperates with other National Youth Councils in European through the BBCplus cooperation of National Youth Council's in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10599945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10599945", "title": "Canadian Women's Suffrage Association", "text": "Canadian Women's Suffrage Association\n\nThe Canadian Women's Suffrage Association, originally called the Toronto Women's Literary Guild, was an organization based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, that fought for women's rights.\nThe Toronto Women's Literary Guild was established in 1877 to fight for women's rights and for improved working conditions. Jessie Turnbull and Dr. Emily Howard Stowe, Canada's second licensed female physician, were founders. The guild had some success in improving access to higher education for women.\nIt was renamed the Canadian Women's Suffrage Association in 1883 with Jessie (McEwen) Turnbull as its first president.\n\nThe Toronto-based association worked towards opening up education to women, and allowing women to advance as professionals, particularly as doctors.\n\nAfter the association had been inactive for a while, the leaders founded the Dominion Women's Enfranchisement Association in 1889.\n\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "27879679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27879679", "title": "Community method", "text": "Community method\n\nThe Community method or Union method refers to decision making processes in the European Union which emphasize the roles of the supranational decision making bodies such as the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Court of Justice of the European Union. It can be contrasted with intergovernmental decision making processes used in the former second and third pillars of the Union in which the Commission and Parliament played more minor roles, and to intergovernmental cooperation outside of the formal EU processes, such as the Schengen Agreement before the Amsterdam Treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37067795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37067795", "title": "Controversy of The MDNA Tour", "text": "Controversy of The MDNA Tour\n\nAmerican singer Madonna was embroiled with a number of controversy during The MDNA Tour. It was her ninth concert tour, promoting her twelfth studio album, \"MDNA\" (2012). The tour has generated many newspaper headlines and news coverage for its use of fake firearms during performances, Madonna's nudity on stage, and her promotion of LGBT rights, freedom of speech and political issues.\n\nMadonna was threatened with a lawsuit in France for using an image of French far-right politician Marine Le Pen with a swastika on her forehead during a video interlude and also in Russia for her promotion of the rights of the LGBT community by giving free pink wristbands to people attending her concert.\n\nDuring the song \"Nobody Knows Me\" in her concert in Tel Aviv on May 31, 2012, during a morphing collage the face of French far-right politician and leader of the National Front Marine Le Pen appeared on the screen with a swastika superimposed on her forehead. The party threatened to sue Madonna should this happen during her concert in France on July 14, 2012, also known as Bastille Day, the French National Day. Le Pen also accused Madonna of kidnapping her adopted children from Malawi. Socialist French government spokesperson Najat Vallaud-Belkacem has also expressed her disappointment because this gained Marine Le Pen a worldwide audience (Mrs Vallaud-Belkacem did not disagree on the message).\n\nAt the performance in Nice, France at the Stade Charles-Ehrmann, many of Le Pen's supporters had covered up The MDNA Tour announcement posters with Le Pen's campaign posters. It was even speculated that French far right was to attend the show. However, Madonna removed the swastika from the video of \"Nobody Knows Me\" and replaced it with a question mark. A local party supporter Gael Nofri welcomed the change stating: \"As far as I know, Madonna has never changed a video clip. This is proof that our arguments were valid. This is excellent news.\" Nevertheless, after that performance, Madonna has used the original video clip. Madonna later defended her use of the swastika image, stating she did it to raise awareness of ever growing intolerance towards religious minorities and immigrants (the National Front is against immigration.)\n\nMadonna has been a strong supporter of U.S. President Barack Obama. She urged fans to vote for Obama and claimed that he is a \"Black Muslim\" which was largely seen as offensive since Obama is a Christian and has discussed about his faith in the past. Madonna clarified her statements by saying that she merely being ironic and said \"Yes, I know Obama is not a Muslim — though I know that plenty of people in this country think he is. And what if he were? The point I was making is that a good man is a good man, no matter who he prays to. I don’t care what religion Obama is — nor should anyone else in America.\" Madonna's support for President Obama has generally been met with cheers from her audience. However, when Madonna voiced her support for President Obama in the traditionally conservative state of Louisiana during her New Orleans performance, she was booed by the audience. Madonna tried to rectify the situation by saying to her audience, \"I don't care who you vote for. Do not take this great privilege for granted.\" \n\nIn her Los Angeles performance, Madonna dedicated her performance to Malala Yousafzai, a 14-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot by the Taliban for speaking out on her right to have an education. Madonna responded in the concert by saying \"This made me cry. The 14-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot on a school bus for writing a blog ... who wrote a blog about how important education was to her. The Taliban stopped her bus and shot her ... Do you understand the sickness and absurdity of this?\" Madonna went on to shout, \"Support education! Support the people who support women!\" Madonna showed the audience a written tattoo on her back with Malala's name on it.\n\nIn the first section of the show, Madonna performs with fake firearms during the first three songs. She begins with \"Girl Gone Wild\" holding a rifle and \"breaks\" the glass, of a confessional box, she later performs \"Revolver\" with female dancers dancing with automatic rifles. During the third song, \"Gang Bang\" she performed in a motel setting where she is seen shooting the male dancers who infiltrate her room with blood being splattered on the backdrops. In wake of the 2012 Aurora shooting, Madonna was urged to remove the use of firearms from the show. Authorities previously warned the singer about use of guns for the concert in Edinburgh, before the events in Colorado. However, the order was reinforced after the tragedy occurred. Madonna continued the show in Scotland as planned, with the use of the props. During the concert, she expressed her joy for first concert in the country, saying she could be onstage for three hours. She then joked, \"Due to your laws here they might pull the plug on me so if they cut us off suddenly, write to your local MP\".\n\nAlthough threatened, Scottish police did not interrupt the show. Activist group, Mothers Against Guns, released a statement stating Madonna \"should know better\". They further stated the use of the props are in bad taste, even more so after the Colorado shootings. The singer's camp responded saying, \"Madonna would rather cancel her show than censor her art. Her entire career, she has fought against people telling her what she can and cannot do. She’s not about to start listening to them now\".\n\nFollowing her concert in Denver, Colorado, many fans felt the pop star was being \"insensitive\" to the community with the use of firearms in the first act. Many concert-goers tweeted the act was \"too dark\" and \"satanic\", causing them to leave the show. To comment on the story, Liz Rosenberg released the following statement: \"It's like taking out the third act of Hamlet. Madonna does not make things pretty and tie them up with a bow\". After the controversy in Denver, many fans felt Madonna would not return to the city to perform.\n\nWhile performing her song \"Human Nature\" in her concert in Istanbul on June 7, 2012, Madonna briefly exposed her right breast to the audience, before covering it up again. \"The Sun\" notes, \"Her actions may have been offensive to some members of her audience, as Turkey is a traditionally Islamic country, with a largely Muslim population\" before noting that \"Perhaps fans shouldn't have been surprised - as she did warn them, writing No Fear on her back. Amy Odell from BuzzFeed said that criticizing the gesture based on her age sends \"a very archaic message\", adding that \"Women who are 53 still have breasts and... sex drives!\". Three days later, \"The Sun\" published an article entitled, \"Madonna was right to bare her boob at 53.\" Three readers of the publication recreated the pose, photographed it, and sent it in to the publication to show their support for Madonna \"as a positive role model for older women.\" While some initially claimed Madonna as \"clingy\" and \"desperate\", Sarah Angotti, also 53, counters, \"I felt nervous when I pulled my bra down but that’s only natural — Madonna probably did too. But then I felt empowered, it was an incredible feeling.\" She goes on to say about Madonna, \"She looks incredible now — better than a woman half her age and better than many of the young girls in the charts now\" before commenting on the criticism of Madonna exposing her breast as a parent, \"If she is a good mother that’s all that matters.\" Tina Shaw, also 53, argues Madonna \"will not change\" despite a double-standard between men and women, opining, \"Women always seem to get the most flack when it comes to controversial situations. If it was a 53-year-old famous guy flashing his six-pack on stage, everyone would say, 'Wow, what a lad' but because it’s a woman everyone is saying, 'What an old bag'\". Lastly, Sue Scadding, 53 as well, negates the controversy, pointing out that \"there are topless women out on the beach every day and nobody bats an eyelid...I mean, it’s only a nipple for goodness sake\".\n\nMadonna's second show in Paris at L'Olympia was met with overwhelmingly negative reviews from fans and critics, with most of the criticism centering on the fact that the concert lasted only 45 minutes, even though the tickets had been sold at the same price as for the others full stage MDNA Tour shows and fans had not been alerted of the abbreviated format of the show. Responding to the criticism, Madonna's publicist declared that her past club shows \"were never more than 45 minutes\", adding that the concert was \"planned as a heartfelt thank you to France which she expressed at the start of the show\" and also, the show cost Madonna nearly $1 million to produce and keeping the prices at $100 involved a \"tremendous effort\". According to TMZ, the riot at Madonna concert in Paris had nothing to do with her brief performance but with around 10 \"fans\" in the audience who overheard yelling about Marine Le Pen. However, several French news outlets reported that the backlash against Madonna's performance was started by a considerable number of fans rather than an isolated group of Marine Le Pen supporters.\n\nMadonna's Russian shows in Moscow and Saint Petersburg were met with great controversy. Asked her stance on the arrest of feminist punk-rock band Pussy Riot, Madonna responded: \"I'm against censorship, and my whole career I've always promoted freedom of expression and freedom of speech so I think what's happening to them is unfair. And I hope that they don't have to serve 7 years in jail; that would be a tragedy. I think art should be political, that art, historically speaking, always reflects what's going on socially. So for me it's hard to separate being an artist and being political.\" During her Moscow show, Madonna gave a speech in support of the band, saying \"...My dream, and my prayer, is that everyone in the world has the right to express their opinions and still be treated as human beings. I know there are many sides to every story, and I mean no disrespect to the Church, or the government, but I think that these three girls -- Nadezhda, Yekaterina, and Maria -- have done something courageous. I think that they have paid the price for this act. And I pray for their freedom.\" Madonna later appeared on stage with a temporary tattoo that said \"Pussy Riot\" on her back in place of the usual \"No Fear\" slogan, and performed \"Like a Virgin\" donning a balaclava covering her face, the band's trademark. It was considered an artistic statement against the oppression of the band's freedom of speech.\n\nThe response was largely positive. Many media outlets lauded Madonna's efforts, and other artists joined her in support of the band, among them Yoko Ono, Paul McCartney and Peter Gabriel. Pussy Riot themselves tweeted: \"DEAR MADONNA! We love you and you just might be changing Russia's history right now. Thank you and a thousand prayers in return!\" Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, however, wrote an expletive-ridden Twitter post lambasting Madonna for backing the band: \"With age, every ex-slut tends to lecture everybody on morality. Especially during world tours and concerts.\" Madonna's second Russian date in Saint Petersburg was consequently met with terrorist threats, prompting the U.S. Embassy to issue a warning to those in attendance. Madonna's spokesperson Liz Rosenberg responded that the concert would go on as scheduled and that Russian authorities would step up security for the date.\n\nFollowing threats of arrest by Russian officials if she spoke in support of gay rights and opposed the recent anti-gay law which prohibits \"public actions aimed at propaganda of sodomy, lesbianism, bisexuality, and transgenderism among minors\", Madonna responded, on March 21, in a letter on her website:\n\nOn August 18, Pussy Riot members were found guilty and sentenced to two years in prison. In response, Madonna wrote on her website in further support of the band: \"I protest the conviction and sentencing of Pussy Riot to a penal colony for two years for a 40 second performance extolling their political opinions. Even if one disagrees with the location or how they chose to express themselves, the sentence is too harsh and in fact is inhumane. I call on all those who love freedom to condemn this unjust punishment. I urge artists around the world to speak up in protest against this travesty. They've spent enough time in jail. I call on ALL of Russia to let Pussy Riot go free.\" Madonna also continued to back and defend Pussy Riot and preach for equality and freedom.\n\nFollowing her tour in Europe, Madonna returned to the United States to perform. Madonna urged her U.S. fans to appreciate their freedom of speech and claimed, \"I've seen some scary things. I've seen people being locked up and put in jail for speaking their minds, for being gay, for not practicing the right religion, for not dressing the proper way. Yeah, it's scary. But what it made me realize is how lucky I am to be living here in America. It doesn't mean that this is the perfect country. We have a long way to go.\" \n\nBefore the show, Madonna released pink wristbands to audience members in support of the LGBT community. In addition, hundreds brought rainbow flags to the show and waved them throughout. Madonna stopped in the middle of the show to speak on the issues at hand: \"...I feel that people are becoming more and more afraid of people who are different. People are becoming more and more intolerant, but we can make a difference...we don't have to do it with violence, but love.\" She continued, noting Martin Luther King, Jr. as a fighter for the equal rights of African Americans, and stating, \"I am here to say that the gay community and gay people here, and all around the world, have the same rights, to be treated with dignity, respect, tolerance, compassion, and love.\" She then asked the audience to raise their wristbands with her to show their \"love and support of the gay community.\" She concluded, \"for people quoting the Bible, and using God as a defense mechanism: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, and Moses preached this—it's in every Holy book—'love thy neighbor as thyself'. You can not use religion, or God's name, to treat other people badly. So let's go out into the world, and spread this message of love, and live our lives without fear. Amen.\"\n\nThough her speech was met with much praise from the media, on August 17, it was announced that anti-gay Russian campaigners would sue Madonna for $10.4 million, arguing that she was promoting \"homosexual propaganda\" which was against the law, and allegedly \"insulted their feelings when she spoke out for gay rights\" at the concert. According to one of the 10 activists who filed the lawsuit, \"She (Madonna) had been warned with words that she should behave in line with the law and she ignored it. So we will speak in the language of money...maybe someone does not see the link but after Madonna's concert maybe some boy becomes gay, some girl becomes lesbian, fewer children are born as a result and this big country cannot defend its borders—for me it causes moral suffering.\" On November 12 the claims were fully rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "41870283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41870283", "title": "Corruption in Georgia", "text": "Corruption in Georgia\n\nCorruption in Georgia had been an issue in the post-Soviet decades. Before the 2003 Rose Revolution, according to \"Foreign Policy\", Georgia was among the most corrupt nations in all Eurasia. The level of corruption abated dramatically, however, after the revolution. In 2010, Transparency International (TI) said that Georgia was “the best corruption-buster in the world.” Low-level corruption has been virtually eliminated in recent years. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 46th place out of 180 countries.\n\nIn January 2012, the World Bank called Georgia a “unique success” of the world in fighting corruption. Philippe Le Houérou said that “Georgia’s experience shows that the vicious cycle of endemic corruption can be broken and, with appropriate and decisive reforms, can be turned into a virtuous cycle.” Georgia is “the only post-Soviet state in the past decade to have made a breakthrough” in addressing corruption, according to \"Foreign Policy\".\n\nCouncil of Europe's Group of States Against Corruption in its fourth evaluation round noted that Georgia has largely succeeded in eradicating petty corruption, however it is also argued that corruption has changed shape in Georgia in recent years. For example, a ‘clientelistic system’ has emerged where the country’s leadership ‘allocates resources in order to generate the loyalty and support it needs to stay in power\n\nAs recently as 2003, according to the World Bank, corruption was an everyday part of Georgian life, with citizens reporting bribery as a regular occurrence. That changed with the 2003 Rose Revolution, which ousted President Shevardnadze, and which is widely considered a reaction to the corruption and poor governance under Shevardnadze. After Mikheil Saakashvili won 96% of the vote in the 2004 elections, he instituted drastic anti-corruption reforms. This including firing the entire Ministry of Education staff. Georgia adopted the anti-corruption mechanisms of nations with successful anti-corruption efforts, such as Italy's anti-Mafia efforts, and German police training. As part of the post-revolutionary effort to crack down on corruption, films showing the arrests of senior government officials on corruption charges were broadcast to the public in order to make clear the seriousness of the effort.\n\nIn 2004, Georgia's corruption perception score improved more dramatically than that of any other country. In that year, 60% of respondents expected corruption levels to decrease during the next three years. In 2005, however, that figure dropped to 38%. The government's “zero-tolerance” policy has dramatically changed the situation, leaving the country tied with most advanced European nations in all governance indicator. The country has routinely seen impressive results in varying governance indicators.\n\nWhile the Saakashvili government’s efforts all but eliminated petty corruption in the public sector, however, particularly in the police department, tax collection administration, customs bureau, public services, and education sectors. some critics dispute the claim that corruption was eliminated, maintaining instead that there was a shift from “rampant petty bribery to more clientelistic forms of corruption.” Indeed, according to some sources, many forms of corruption have remained common in Georgia. For example, executive power, combined with a weak judiciary and media, make abuse of power at every level of government a possibility and allow top officials to operate with near impunity.\n\nMoreover, while Transparency International Georgia's 2011 National Integrity System Assessment credited the post-2004 reforms with making the executive branch and law enforcement stronger and more efficient, as well as with strengthening the fight against petty bribery and certain other types of corruption, TI Georgia noted that some executive agencies were insufficiently accountable and transparent, that news media had not devoted enough resources to investigating corruption, and that the country's 2010 anti-corruption policy lacked a coherent framework based on a thorough analysis of the challenges. TI Georgia also charged the Anti-Corruption Council, created in 2008, with poor monitoring and evaluation of the plan’s implementation.\n\nThe World Bank has described Georgia's underground economy as the world's largest relative to the scale of the country's official economic activity.\n\nThanks to strong enforcement, low-level civil-service graft has all but disappeared since Saakashvili became president. To be sure, some government funds, such as the president's funds, continue to operate with insufficient accountability. Bonuses are paid by government agencies on an arbitrary basis. A 2011 report indicated that political leaders have used public resources to maintain their party's rule of the political system. Also, strong patronage networks endure, and its common for public officials to blend their position with private enterprise.\n\nTransparency International has identified the government’s influence on regulatory bodies as opening up opportunities for corruption. The National Communications Commission has been charged with selectively enforcing regulations, for example in awarding and denying broadcast licenses, and has not enforced the rule against government bodies with broadcast licences or government bodies that sponsors media entities.\n\nFurthermore, the oversight of the public budget is weak, and as of 2011 the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other government bodies had yet to institute internal auditing. TI Georgia has criticized the Ministry of Internal Affairs for excessive surveillance of private electronic communications and for placing its officers illegally in independent government agencies.\n\nThe legislature and judiciary, as well as the media and civil society, are weak in comparison to the executive. Transparency and accountability are weaker in local Georgian governments than in the national government. Unsalaried city council members are exempt from integrity rules that apply to national officials.\n\nThere is little corruption in the public procurement sector. Despite a highly transparent system procurement, certain exceptions and loopholes make no-bid state contracts possible. As of 2012, indeed, 45% of state contracts were awarded without a bidding process taking place.\n\nMoreover, licenses in certain sectors have been awarded under less than fully competitive and transparent conditions. One such sector is mining. Another is media. For example, when the management rights for a TV broadcasting tower in Tbilisi were sold at auction, the winner of the auction, who had no background in telecommunications, was selected beforehand. Also, firms with ties to a former defense minister were granted exclusive rights to outdoor advertising in the capital and a license to run the national lottery. Also, some state-owned assets have been sold without competitive bidding, sometimes for less than market value. Similarly, in 2011, the Tbilisi City Hall awarded management rights to a public park to a firm owned by a City Council member.\n\nThere is relatively little corruption in the taxation system. Only rarely are companies asked to pay bribes or extra payments in connection with taxes. Tax officials are, however, subject to a degree of executive interference. Supporters of opposition parties, for instance, have been known to be harassed by the tax police.\n\nCorruption is rare in the customs service. A 2014 report noted that Georgia had reduced the number of customs facilities and simplified the procedures for clearance, so that importing and exporting involve fewer documents and less expense than elsewhere in the region.\n\nBefore 2003, virtually any government transaction required some amount of bribe for processing. Nearly all bureaucrats and officials were said to abuse their power for personal gain. In 2013, the percentage of respondents to the Global Corruption Survey who said they had a bribe for public services was only 4%.\n\nIn 2011, two businessmen from Israel, Ron Fuchs and Ze'ev Frenkiel, were imprisoned for offering a bribe to the Prime Minister, but were pardoned later that year, supposedly for humanitarian reasons. On the same day that the pardon was made public, the Ministry of Justice announced a settlement with their firm, Tramex, that involved a $73 million reduction in an arbitration award against Georgia. The timing was viewed as suspicious, but the government insisted it was purely coincidental.\n\nExperts say that the government exerts “undue influence” on the electorate, with state officials inappropriately using official resources to influence voters. Before the 2012 parliamentary elections, campaign contributions by corporations were made illegal, but this move was viewed not as an anti-corruption measure but as a means of maintaining the ruling party's advantage. Indeed, the new rules were used largely to intimidate the opposition. Also, some contributions during the 2012 election cycle that were nominally made by individuals were in fact corporate donations in disguise. In addition, there are indications that campaign donations made by persons representing companies with government contracts were essentially kickbacks. Contribution disclosure rules were later introduced to address this issue, but the State Audit Office seems insufficiently able to willing to do its part to ensure compliance with the new rules.\n\n\"The Economist\" complained in 2012 about new limits on political contributions that sought to curb the influence of Georgia's richest man and an opponent of the government, Bidzina Ivanishvili.\n\nPolice corruption is not a major problem in Georgia. Corruption among traffic police was a major problem before the Rose Revolution; after Saakashvili became president, 16,000 traffic police officers were fired quickly and unceremoniously.\n\nAccording to one respected source, corruption is not a major problem in the judicial sector Transparency International has stated that while bribery is in fact rare in the Georgian judiciary, judges are widely viewed by the Georgian people as corrupt. In 2013, for example, 51% of respondents said the judiciary was corrupt or extremely corrupt. The Prosecutor’s Office no longer has the strong influence over the judiciary that it enjoyed before 2012.\n\nAfter the recession of the early 1990s, professors were earning so little that they required bribes to get by. Usually they supplemented their income by charging “fees” for admissions exams, as a result of which applicants to Tbilisi State University could pay up to a $30,000 bribe to ensure admission and get the highest grades. This changed in 2002, when the World Bank instituted a National Assessment and Examinations Center that developed rigorous assessment examinations. Consequently, students who have taken the exams over the last decade, reported \"Foreign Policy\" in 2015, owe their success to their thorough education and not any patronage systems.\n\nThe media are one sector in which opportunities for corruption have risen under Saakashvili. His regime has been behind the takeover of leading media by loyal business interests, as a result of which criticism of the authorities has “gradually disappeared” from TV, along with investigative programs.\n\nThe Business Anti-Corruption Portal has stated that corruption constitutes a low risk for companies looking to do business in Georgia and that it is easier to start a business than in almost any other nation, due to the increased transparency and efficiency in receiving licenses and permits. Indeed, the business environment in Georgia has been greatly improved in recent years owing to the introduction of comparatively low income taxes and more liberal regulation. There are, however, several issues that companies have to deal with, such as the lack of judicial independence, the lack of enforcement of intellectual property rights, and selective enforcement of economic law.\n\nThere continues to be an overlap between government and business interests. Many persons with close government ties have become very rich, many public officials have acquired sizable fortunes shortly after leaving government service, and some wealthy businessmen who have been elected to parliament have been able to use their position to benefit their firms. In addition, according to a 2013 report, the owners of some companies have been forced, on occasion, to make gifts to the government, or even relinquish ownership of the business. Also, the extensive process of privatizing state assets has been lacking in transparency, and has in many cases been conducted under “suspicious circumstances.”\n\nIt is believed that some firms have been awarded government contracts in return for campaign donations to the incumbent party, and have been discouraged for contributing to the opposition. As a result of such practices, the ruling party's campaign coffers have been 10 to 20 times larger than those of all other parties combined.\n\nTransparency International has identified three “problematic” issues connection with doing business in Georgia: “the significant shadow economy, preferential treatment in contract awarding, and the lack of transparency in the wave of privatisation.” In 2008, 52% of companies told the World Bank that they had been obliged to compete with unregistered companies for government contracts. As of 2013, bribery was still a factor in the awarding of government contracts.\n\nBecause of corruption, the rate of deforestation is very high.\n\nEconomic reform and anti-corruption were placed at the top political agenda of the Georgian government led by former President Saakashvili. Since 2004, Georgia had made tremendous progress in the clamp down on corruption and reinstatement of good governance. The total dissolution of the corrupt traffic police in 2004 and the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Interagency Council in 2008 were successful examples of the reform. Low-level corruption has been virtually eliminated in recent years. Both the OECD and the World Bank praised Georgia's unique success in combating corruption.\n\nThe World Bank, for example, attributed Georgia's success at fighting corruption to the following factors: “exercising strong political will; establishing credibility early; launching a frontal assault; attracting new staff; limiting the state’s role; adopting unconventional methods; coordinating closely; tailoring international experience to local conditions; harnessing technology; using communications strategically.” The lesson of Georgia's success at fighting corruption, according to \"The Economist\", is that “[l]eadership and political will are all important,” as is “establishing early credibility.” Ending corruption in Georgia was part of an almost-libertarian effort to minimize the size of the state, creating fewer opportunities for graft. The young and largely western-educated new staff of the government receives a high enough salary to dissuade the temptation of corruption.\n\nThe Interagency Council for Combating Corruption, formed in 2008, consists of members of various government agencies, civil-society groups, and business associations, and is responsible for coordinating, strategizing, and monitoring the fight against corruption. The Ministry of Justice's effectiveness is considered questionable because of limited resources. The Internal Affairs Ministry's Anti-Corruption Department, formed in 2012, is responsible for fighting corruption.\n\nThe State Audit Office (SAO) is responsible for reviewing public spending, but it lacks resources to audit in sufficient depth and has been too closely tied to the political establishment. In 2012, the SAO did not enforce campaign-finance rules objectively. In fact the SAO's head and deputy head resigned from the SAO to run as ruling-party candidates for parliament in that year. On the other hand, the current SAO head has no links to the new ruling government.\n\nThe State Procurement and Competition Agency, which coordinates and monitors public contracts, has also been praised for its transparent approach to public procurement. Since 2013, Georgia has published online all public contracts, with a few exempted for national security reasons or because of specific exceptions, such as that applied to Georgian Railways. Critics of proposed procurement contracts can file appeals online.\n\nThe improvement of law enforcement since 2004 has had a significant impact on anti-corruption efforts. According to the 2011 National Integrity System Assessment, law-enforcement agencies are among Georgia's strongest institutions, although the assessment also criticized these agencies' low transparency and accountability levels.\n\nGeorgia's strong civil-society organizations, while underfunded and dependent almost totally on foreign aid, have played a role in encouraging anti-corruption reforms, such as promoting improvements in campaign-finance law, and in monitoring fulfillment of the country's international anti-corruption commitments. TI Georgia has praised the Civil Service Bureau (CSB) for improving the system of asset disclosure.\n\n"}
{"id": "42392657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42392657", "title": "Dame Blanche (resistance)", "text": "Dame Blanche (resistance)\n\nLa Dame Blanche (French; literally \"The White Lady\") was the codename for an underground intelligence network which operated in German-occupied Belgium during World War I. It took its name from a German legend which stated that the fall of the Hohenzollern dynasty would be announced by the appearance of a woman wearing white.\n\nThe \"Dame Blanche\" network was founded in 1916 by Walthère Dewé, an engineer working in a telegraph and telephone company in Brussels. The decision resulted from the arrest and execution of Dewé's cousin, Dieudonné Lambrecht, who had himself founded an intelligence network codenamed \"Lambrecht\". In order to save the group, Dewé took control and developed it under the name \"Dame Blanche\". \n\nThe network was at first affiliated to the British military intelligence service Cameron Folkstone. After constant infiltration by German counter-espionage it reverted to MI6 at Rotterdam where they were handled by Captain Henry Landau. After the end of the war, Mansfield Smith-Cumming, head of MI6, estimated that \"Dame Blanche\" had supplied as much as 70 percent of all military intelligence collected by Allied intelligence services world-wide, not merely that from German-occupied Belgium and northern France.\n\nBy the end of the war, its 1,300 agents covered all of occupied Belgium, northern France and, through a collaboration with Louise de Bettignies' network, occupied Luxembourg. The network was known for its high proportion of female members; women may have made up as much as 30 percent of its total personnel.\n\nDuring the second German occupation of Belgium in World War II, Dewé used the experience of the \"Dame Blanche\" network to start a new network, codenamed Clarence. He was shot and killed while trying to avoid capture by the Germans in 1944.\nA monument to the Dame Blanche resistance organization has been built near the city of Liège. It is the Chapelle Saint-Maurice (mémorial Walthère Dewé), Rue Coupée 94, Liège, Belgium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6151463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6151463", "title": "Department of Agrarian Reform (Philippines)", "text": "Department of Agrarian Reform (Philippines)\n\nThe Philippines' Department of Agrarian Reform (, abbreviated as DAR or KRP) is the executive department of the Philippine Government responsible for the redistribution of agrarian land in the Philippines.\n \n\n"}
{"id": "37864391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37864391", "title": "Fabián Nsue", "text": "Fabián Nsue\n\nFabián Nsue Nguema is the most prominent human-rights lawyer in Equatorial Guinea which, under Teodoro Obiang, has been referred to as one of the most repressive regimes in Africa. He is a member of Equatorial Guinea's only legal opposition party, Unión Popular (UP), which frequently denounces human rights violations, and of which he has served as secretary-general. He has defended a number of political prisoners in trials.\n\nNsue has provided legal assistance in a number of high-profile cases.\n\nNsue represented a group of persons who were allegedly involved in an attempted coup in March 2004. “There was no attempted coup d'etat in this country,” one of the defendants said during the November 2004 trial. “I had to tell these people what they wanted. It was the only way to stay alive.” An International Bar Association observer reported that the trial “fell far short of international fair trial standards.” The court ignored the defendant's allegations of torture; the government failed to notify defendants before trial of the charges against them, and denied them legal representation until three days before the trial began. The only evidence presented by the prosecution to support its charges were statements made by the defendants under duress. Nsue's request to visit the eight defendants sentenced in the case was rejected in April 2005 by the Supreme Court. \n\nIn 2005, he and a colleague at his law firm were disbarred for a year by the Bar Association of Equatorial Guinea, which charged them with unspecified acts of misconduct. This came in the wake of Nsue's defense of the accused coup plotters in March 2004. The Bar Association did not give Nsue prior notice of the charges against him or given an opportunity to defend himself against any charges. The International Bar Association called the disbarment “purely political” and described the Bar Association's decision as having “reportedly [been] made in conjunction with the Government.” IBA Executive Director Mark Ellis said that the disbarment “and the manner in which this has been handled by the Bar Association in Equatorial Guinea is very worrying. This method of intimidation means that lawyers will be reluctant to take on politically sensitive cases for fear of being associated with their client. The administration of justice in Equatorial Guinea continues to be of grave concern to the IBA.”\n\nNsue represented Simon Mann, a British citizen who was jailed in 2008 for plotting to overthrow the president. According to the Human Rights Foundation, Nsue “defended Weja Chicambo, a former prisoner of conscience and the founder of an 'illegal' opposition party.” \n\nHe was also the defense lawyer for four UP members who were accused of having assaulted the Presidential Palace in February 2009, even though, according to the Human Rights Foundation, “the four men were in exile in Benin when the attack occurred.” (The four men “were later tracked down, brought back to Equatorial Guinea, tortured, and executed,” Over the course of his career, he has frequently been harassed by the government of Equatorial Guinea. \n\nNsue complained in May 2011 that he had been under investigation by unknown persons in recent weeks and that a total of four memory sticks had been taken from his office on two different occasions.\n\nIn April 2002, according to Amnesty International, he “was arrested as he was about to defend a group of political prisoners who were subsequently adopted as prisoners of conscience by Amnesty International. In July 2002, he was tried for defamation of President Obiang and sentenced to one year in prison.” He was confined for five months in Black Beach prison in Malabo, described by Human Rights Foundation as “a place with a reputation so grim that it earned Nsue's home country of Equatorial Guinea the nickname of 'the Auschwitz of Africa' back in the 1970s.” In prison, Nsue was tortured. Amnesty International designated him as a prisoner of conscience.\n\nNsue's client Augustín Esono Ngoso was arrested on or around October 16, 2012, allegedly because of his supposed ties to the non-governmental organisation Transparency International France, which had been investigating corruption on the part of Obiang and his son. Nsue immediately began trying to secure permission to see Esono. On October 22, police superintendent Liborio Mba told Nsue he could visit Esono at Black Beach. Around midday, Nsue went to the prison, but was not granted immediate access to his client. During the day he had phone contact with his wife, but he failed to return home that night, and the next day his wife contacted the investigative court and went to the prison, where she was turned away and told that her husband was not there, even though his car was still in the parking lot. \n\n“Fabian Nsue’s disappearance while visiting a prison is of grave concern,” said Daniel Bekele, Africa director at Human Rights Watch. “The government needs to urgently investigate the situation, determine whether he is being held in secret detention, contrary to national and international law, and publicly clarify his whereabouts.”\n\n“Nsue’s career as a lawyer has been dedicated to fighting injustice and upholding the law, even in the face of harsh government repression,” said Tutu Alicante, executive director of EG Justice, a US-based group that advocates for human rights in Equatorial Guinea. “The authorities must fully respect his rights and clarify his whereabouts without delay.” \n\nIn fact he had been detained at the prison and held incomunicado there with no bed or bathroom, but was not tortured. On October 24, his wife was informed of this but was not allowed to see him. While in Black Beach prison, Nsue was told that Esono had implicated him in “an attempt to destabilise the country.” He was not given additional details about this claim. \n\nOn October 25, Nsue and other detainees were moved to the Comisaria Central (Central Police Station) in Malabo, where he was held in a large cell with many other detainees and was free to move about. His wife was permitted to visit him daily and to take him food.\n\nNsue endured nine days of solitary confinement in a dark cell. He and three other detainees were released without charge on the evening of October 30. He was released in the presence of the United States Ambassador, who had lobbied for his freedom. Esono Nsogo remained imprisoned.\n\nNsue told the Voice of America in 2008 that Equatorial Guinea is “a criminal state run mostly by greedy illiterates” and that “even though there has been international attention on the problem of human rights in Equatorial Guinea, he thinks the situation is getting worse.” Describing “weekly arbitrary arrests, indefinite detentions without trial, and dozens of political prisoners,” he complained that judges “do not have proper training or independence” and that “authorities use alleged coup attempts to crack down on basic freedoms even more.”\n\n"}
{"id": "7224034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7224034", "title": "Haq Movement", "text": "Haq Movement\n\nThe Haq Movement for Liberty and Democracy () is an opposition political organization in Bahrain founded in November 2005 with Hasan Mushaima as its secretary general. Several of its leaders were previously in the leadership of the Al Wefaq society, but it also contains others, Ali Rabea, a secular nationalist and former member of parliament previously associated with the National Democratic Action Society, and Shaikh Isa Al Jowder, a Sunni cleric.\n\nHaq opposed participation in the parliamentary elections because it considers the 2002 Constitution of Bahrain to be illegal and unilaterally imposed by King Hamad ibn Isa Al Khalifah, replacing the 1973 Constitution.\n\nHaq called on the United Nations on 15 November 2006 to investigate allegations that a secret government grouping has been conspiring to fuel sectarian tensions and rig the results of upcoming parliamentary and municipal elections. In a letter addressed to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and delivered to Sayed Aqa, the UN Development Programme's (UNDP) Bahrain coordinator, Haq called for the forming of an international fact- finding committee to scrutinize the claims made in an August report by the Gulf Centre for Democratic Development (GCDD).\n\nThe 240-page report, dubbed Bandar Gate after its co-author Salah Al Bandar - a Briton of Sudanese origin who was deported in September to Britain after its publication - alleged that a ring masterminded by a government minister was secretly planning to manipulate the demographic makeup of the country, through the selective granting of citizenship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5234177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234177", "title": "Heat therapy", "text": "Heat therapy\n\nHeat therapy, also called thermotherapy, is the use of heat in therapy, such as for pain relief and health. It can take the form of a hot cloth, hot water bottle, ultrasound, heating pad, hydrocollator packs, whirlpool baths, cordless FIR heat therapy wraps, and others. It can be beneficial to those with arthritis and stiff muscles and injuries to the deep tissue of the skin. Heat may be an effective self-care treatment for conditions like rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nHeat therapy is most commonly used for rehabilitation purposes. The therapeutic effects of heat include increasing the extensibility of collagen tissues; decreasing joint stiffness; reducing pain; relieving muscle spasms; reducing inflammation, edema, and aids in the post acute phase of healing; and increasing blood flow. The increased blood flow to the affected area provides proteins, nutrients, and oxygen for better healing.\n\nMoist heat therapy has been believed to be more effective at warming tissues than dry heat, because water transfers heat more quickly than air. Clinical studies do not support the popular belief that moist heat is more effective than dry heat. Moist heat results in the perception that the tissue is heated more deeply. In fact, recent studies indicate that vasodilation, the expansion of the blood capillaries (vessels) to allow more blood flow, is improved with dry heat therapy. Expansion of the blood capillaries is the primary objective of heat therapy. Heat therapy increases the effect on muscles, joints, and soft tissue. Heat is typically applied by placing a warming device on the relevant body part.\n\nNewer breeds of heat therapy devices combine a carbon fiber heater with a cordless rechargeable lithium battery and are built into the specific body wrap (\"i.e.\", shoulder wrap or back wrap) for targeted heat therapy. Such devices can be used as alternatives to chemical or plugged-in heating pads, but have not been shown to improve the clinical benefit. All devices primarily provide heat to promote vasodilation.\n\nInfrared radiation is a convenient system to heat parts of our body. It has the advantage over direct contact in that radiation can heat directly the area where the blood capillaries and neuron terminals are. When heat comes from a direct contact source it has to heat the external layer of the skin, and heat is transferred to the deeper layer by conduction. Since heat conduction needs a temperature gradient to proceed, and there is a maximum temperature that can be safely used (around 42 °C), this means lower temperature where warming is needed.\n\nInfrared (IR for short) is the part of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum comprised between 0.78 μm and 1 mm wavelength. It is usually divided into three segments:\n\nIR-A, from 0.78 to 1.4 μm.<br>\nIR-B, from 1.4 to 3 μm.<br>\nIR-C, from 3 μm to 1 mm.\n\nIR radiation is more useful than the visible radiation for heating our body, because we absorb most of it, compared to a strong reflection of visible light. Penetration depth of infrared radiation in our skin is dependent of wavelength. IR-A is the most penetrating, and reaches some millimeters, IR-B penetrates into the dermis (about 1 mm), and IR-C is mostly absorbed in the external layer of the epidermis (stratum corneum). For this reason the infrared lamps used for therapeutic purposes produce mainly IR-A radiation.\n\nHeat creates higher tissue temperatures, which produces vasodilation that increases the supply of oxygen and nutrients and the elimination of carbon dioxide and metabolic waste.\n\nHeat therapy is useful for muscle spasms, myalgia, fibromyalgia, contracture, bursitis.\n\nMoist heat can be used on abscesses to help drain the abscess faster. A study from 2005 showed heat therapy to be effective in treating leishmaniasis, a tropical parasitic skin infection. \n\nHeat therapy is also sometimes used in cancer treatment to augment the effect of chemotherapy or radiotherapy, but it is not enough to kill cancer cells on its own. \n\nHeat therapy is contraindicated in case of acute injury and bleeding disorders (because of vasodilation), tissues with a severe lack of sensitivity, scars and in tissues with inadequate vascular supply (because of increased metabolic rate and demand which a tissue with poor blood supply may fail to meet resulting in ischemia).\n\nThe use of Heat therapy for deep-seated tissue can be treated with shortwave, microwave, and ultrasonic waves. This produces a high temperature that penetrates deeper. Shortwave produces a 27MHz current, microwaves use 915 and 2456 MHz, and ultrasound is an acoustic vibration of 1MHz. The way ultrasonic waves work is they selectively superimpose the incoming wave and increase the energy for absorption, and the significant part of the longitudinal compression gets converted into shear waves. When they are rapidly absorbed, the interface between soft tissue and bone is selectively heated. \n\nHeat therapy can be used for the treatment of headaches and migraines. Many people who suffer from chronic headaches also suffer from tight muscles in their neck and upper back. The application of constant heat to the back/upper back area can help to release the tension associated with headache pain. In order to achieve heat therapy for headaches, many use microwaveable pads which can often overheat, potentially leading to injury, and lose their heat after a few minutes. Some new products use heated water, running through pads, to maintain a constant temperature, allowing headache sufferers to use hands-free heat therapy in the treatment of their headache pain.\n\nThermotherapy increase the extensibility of collagen tissues. Using heat, it can relieve the stiffness in joints in different cases. Shortwave and Microwave heat application may reduce muscle spasms, and selective heating with microwaves can accelerate absorption of hematomas. This will, in turn, allow the stiff muscle to stretch. Ultrasounds are not absorbed significantly in homogenous muscle. Heat therapy using hyperthermia has been used to treat cancer in combination with ionizing radiation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48840633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48840633", "title": "Honours of war", "text": "Honours of war\n\nThe honours of war are a set of privileges that are granted to a defeated army during the surrender ceremony. The honours symbolize the valor of the defeated army, and grew into a custom during the age of early modern warfare. Typically a surrendering garrison was permitted to march out with drums beating and flags flying, after which they would become prisoners of war.\n\nWhen \"full honours of war\" are granted, the defeated army may march out with its flags flying, drums beating, and bayonets fixed. During the matchlock era, musketmen would light their matches on both ends and place musketballs in their mouths. As the defeated army marches past, its band can play a tune of its own choice, customarily an enemy tune. However, there is no requirement that the defeated army select an enemy tune, and the British army at the Battles of Saratoga (1777) marched out to the tune of The British Grenadiers.\n\nAfter the march-past, the defeated army will stack its arms and turn over any government property to the victor. However, officers may keep their sidearms and personal baggage. The defeated army may also take a couple of cannons with them, along with a symbolic supply of ammunition.\n\nIt is common for commanders to withhold the honours of war in retaliation for some other incident. The American defenders had been refused the honours of war when they surrendered after the Siege of Charleston (1780). When negotiating the surrender of a British army at Yorktown a year later, American General George Washington insisted: \"The same Honors will be granted to the Surrendering Army as were granted to the Garrison of Charles Town.\" As a result, the British had to march with flags furled and muskets shouldered, and the surrender articles insisted that the band play \"a British or German march.\"\n\nThe honours of war are considered to be a symbolic recognition of a valiant defense. Therefore, a victorious general may also refuse to grant the honours of war if he feels that the enemy has given up too easily. For example, after the British commander was killed by a cannonball at the Battle of Fort Oswego (1756), his replacement quickly decided to surrender. The French General Montcalm refused to grant honours of war to the British because he felt that they had not put up enough of a fight.\n\nThe honours of war became traditional in the age of early modern warfare, when sieges were more common, and logistical challenges made it difficult to corner a defeated enemy after a battlefield victory. However, the practice continued into the age of industrial warfare. After the Siege of Metz (1870), the Prussians offered honours of war to the capitulating French army, but the French general Bazaine refused to accept them. In World War II, the Germans granted the honours of war to the defeated French garrison at the Siege of Lille (1940), and the British granted the honours of war to the defeated Italian army at the Battle of Amba Alagi (1941).\n\nThe honours of war remain part of the laws of war, although terms such as the retention of cannons have become obsolete. The 2015 Law of War Manual from the United States Department of Defense specifies that:\n"}
{"id": "29582950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29582950", "title": "In re Summers", "text": "In re Summers\n\nIn re Summers, 325 U.S. 561 (1945), is a 5-to-4 ruling by the United States Supreme Court which held that the First and Fourtheenth amendment freedoms of a conscientious objector were not infringed when a state bar association declined to admit him to the practice of law. The Illinois Constitution required citizens to serve in the state militia in time of war, and all lawyers admitted to the bar were required to uphold the state constitution. Petitioner Clyde Summers could not uphold that constitutional requirement due to his religious beliefs, and the Supreme Court upheld the denial of his license of practice.\n\nClyde Summers entered the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign at the age of 16, earning a Bachelor of Science in Accounting in 1939 and a Juris Doctor (\"cum laude\") in 1942. While an undergraduate and law student, Summers became active in the Methodist Student Movement and a believer in the social gospel.\n\nThe United States entered World War II on December 8, 1941. Summers, opposed to the use of force, declared himself a conscientious objector. In 1942, Summers sought admission to the Illinois State Bar Association, a prerequisite to the practice of law in the state of Illinois. The bar association admitted he was of high moral character and exhibited excellent knowledge of the law, but in January 1943 denied him admission due to his conscientious objector status. Article 12 of the Illinois constitution required citizens to serve in the state militia in time of war, and all lawyers admitted to the bar were required to uphold the state constitution. However, Illinois had not drafted citizens into its state militia since 1864, Article 12 prohibited the drafting of conscientious objectors into the militia during peacetime, and the article permitted conscientious objectors to engage in work of significant national importance during war in lieu of military service. Nonetheless, Summers could not uphold the relevant constitutional requirement due to his religious beliefs, the bar association said.\n\nWith representation by the American Civil Liberties Union, Summers sued, alleging that the bar association's actions had infringed his First and Fourteenth amendment rights. The Supreme Court of Illinois held that 1) The courts had no jurisdiction over the issue, and thus no \"case or controversy\" existed under Article Three of the Constitution; and 2) The bar association had not discriminated against Summers on the basis of his religion but rather on the basis of his ability to uphold the military service section of the Illinois state constitution.\n\nSummers appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, and which granted certiorari.\n\nAssociate Justice Stanley Forman Reed wrote the decision for the majority, joined by Chief Justice Stone and Associate Justices Frankfurter, Jackson, and Burton.\n\nReed first reviewed the case proceedings. Regarding the \"case or controversy\" aspect of the issue, Reed concluded that the admission of a lawyer to the bar was \"a ministerial act which is performed by virtue of the judicial power, such as the appointment of a clerk or bailiff or the specification of the requirements of eligibility or the course of study for applicants for admission to the bar, rather than a judicial proceeding.\" However, under \"Osborn v. Bank of the United States\", 22 U.S. 738 (1824), because the judicial power is invoked, this allows a case to arise. But was there a controversy? For a controversy to exist, Reed said, it must follow the rule laid down in \"Muskrat v. United States\", 219 U.S. 346 (1911), which held that there must be actual disagreement and merely a hypothetical or potential disagreement. The record in \"In re Summers\" was incomplete and the response for petition of certiorari from the Illinois Supreme Court was oddly formed, leaving the issue of a controversy muddied. But the majority concluded that since the bar association committee had formed at the request of the Illinois Supreme Court and that court had acted on Summers' petition for relief, a true controversy existed. Without discussion, Reed furthermore asserted that denial of the right to practice law is a controversy, and a denial of that right by a state court triggers federal jurisdiction under Article Three of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nIn addressing Summers' conscientious objector claim, Reed denigrated Summers as a \"religionist.\" Reed next asserted that the Fourteenth Amendment applied only to federal rights, not to purely state-guaranteed rights such as the right to practice law. But were Summers' First Amendment rights implicated? The majority concluded they were not. Reed asserted that the Illinois Supreme Court had not discriminated against Summers on the basis of his religion, but rather on his ability to uphold the Illinois Constitution's requirement that he serve in the militia:\nReed reviewed Summers' beliefs, noting that he had been certified a conscientious objector by the federal government, his beliefs were religiously founded, and his beliefs were sincerely held. But the Illinois Supreme Court had held that Summers would not serve in the militia if drafted, a claim which Summers had failed to challenge.\n\nBut these pacifist religious beliefs were not protected by the First Amendment, Reed said. Relying on \"Hamilton v. Regents of the University of California\", 293 U.S. 245 (1934), he declared conscientious objection a \"grace of Congressional recognition\" and noted that the state of Illinois recognized no such rights.\n\nThe judgment of the Illinois Supreme Court was affirmed.\n\nAssociate Justice Hugo Black wrote a dissent, in which he was joined by Associate Justices Douglas, Murphy, and Rutledge.\n\nBlack bluntly phrased the issue in terms starkly different than the majority's: \"It has denied him a license on the ground that his present religious beliefs disqualify him for membership in the legal profession.\" Black reviewed Summers' qualifications for the bar, which were exceptionally high and otherwise undisputed. He also reviewed the foundation for Summers' deep religious convictions and opposition to the use of force.\n\nBlack found the majority's distinction between upholding the Illinois Constitution and discriminating against Summers' religious beliefs \"circuitous\". The Illinois Constitution, he said, would discriminate against entire religions, and could lead to the inescapable conclusion that the state could bar a conscientious objector from a wide range of constitutional protections merely by refusing to grant these protections to nonresistors. He wrote:\nBlack concluded that the Illinois Constitution's requirement was essentially a \"test oath,\" an oath designed to test one's loyalty before any illegal act had actually occurred. But, relying on \"Cummings v. Missouri\", 71 U.S. 277 (1867) and \"Ex parte Garland\", 71 U.S. 333 (1866), Black said that test oaths were anathema to the Constitution. \"This feeling was made manifest in Article VI of the Constitution, which provides that 'no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.'\" Illinois has the power to draft its citizens, and to punish them for refusing to serve in its militia, Black said, but it does not have the right to assume beforehand that Summers would take the bar association oath in bad faith and fail to fulfill it at some indeterminate time in the future. This thinking had been rejected by Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. in his dissent in \"United States v. Schwimmer\", 279 U.S. 644 (1929), and by Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes in his dissent in \"United States v. Macintosh\", 283 U.S. 605 (1931), and Black embraced their views. Finally, Black noted that Illinois had not imposed a draft since 1864 and that the majority was engaging in mere speculation about imposing one in the future. There was no violation of the oath, and no actual inability to uphold the state constitution, Black concluded. \"<nowiki>[T]</nowiki>he probability that Illinois would ever call the petitioner to serve in a war has little more reality than an imaginary quantity in mathematics. I cannot agree that a state can lawfully bar from a semi-public position a well qualified man of good character solely because he entertains a religious belief which might prompt him at some time in the future to violate a law which has not yet been and may never be enacted.\"\n\nBlack would have overturned the decision of the Illinois Supreme Court.\n\nChief Justice Stone cast the deciding vote in the case. Although his vote contradicted the vast majority of his previous \"freedom of religion\" votes and decisions, Stone's reasons for deciding against free exercise in this case are not recorded.\nThe Court's ruling in \"In re Summers\" has been sharply criticized. Despite Justice Reed's stated respect for Summers' religious beliefs, Reed denigrated him as a \"religionist\" (someone whose beliefs are not thought through and imfirmly held). Reed also imposed his own theology on the Christian Bible, openly criticizing Summers for misinterpreting its tenets and for practicing (rather than merely reading) it. One historian has said that \"Justice Stanley Reed's majority opinion <nowiki>[is]</nowiki> lacking in anay analysis of the serious constitutional issue involved\". A legal scholar has said that Reed's decision is \"merely\" that Illinois had the right to interpret its oath however it chose.\n\nThe dissents of Holmes in \"Schwimmer\", Hughes in \"Macintosh\", and Black in \"In re Summers\" have since become the majority view of the Supreme Court. \"Schwimmer\" and \"Macintosh\" were overruled in \"Girouard v. United States\", 328 U.S. 61 (1946). But even though the cases which formed the basis of the decision in \"In re Summers\" were disavowed, the Court reaffirmed \"Summers\" in 1950 in \"American Communications Association v. Douds\", 339 U.S. 382 (1950). \"In re Summers\" became the basis for the Court to uphold a number of loyalty oath cases during the Cold War.\nSummers later was admitted to the New York State Bar Association and became one of the most respected legal educators in the United States. He was highly influential in the field of labor law, and was considered the nation's leading expert on union democracy. \"What Louis Brandeis was to the field of privacy law, Clyde Summers is to the field of union democracy,\" wrote Widener University School of Law professor Michael J. Goldberg in the summer of 2010. \"Summers, like Brandeis, provided the theoretical foundation for an important new field of law.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49869200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49869200", "title": "In the Red (TV series)", "text": "In the Red (TV series)\n\nIn the Red is a three-part BBC Two black comedy-crime drama 1998 series featuring Warren Clarke as BBC Reporter George Cragge and Alun Armstrong as Police Superintendent Frank Jefferson, investigating a series of murders of London bank managers, a small political party contesting a by-election, and a plan to overthrow the Director-General of the BBC.\n\nThe series was adapted by Malcolm Bradbury from Mark Tavener's novel of the same name (Hutchinson, 1989), which had been inspired by the writer's early experiences working for the BBC and the Liberal Party.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of the series, the characters of Charles Prentis, played by Stephen Fry, and Martin McCabe, played by John Bird, who also appeared in the radio adaptation of the book (BBC Two, 1995-1999), were featured in their own spin-off series \"Absolute Power\" (BBC Radio 4, 2000-2006/BBC Two, 2003-2005), which was also created and written by Tavener.\n"}
{"id": "21938704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21938704", "title": "International Institute of Administrative Sciences", "text": "International Institute of Administrative Sciences\n\nCreated in 1930, the International Institute of Administrative Sciences (IIAS) is an International Association with Scientific Purpose whose seat is in Brussels. As a non-governmental international organisation its activities are centred on the study of public administration and it provides a forum in which comparative studies – including both practical experiences and theoretical analyses of experts in public administration worldwide and from all cultures – are presented and discussed. The Institute is interested in all questions related to contemporary public administration at the national and international level.\n\nEach year IIAS holds three conferences in three countries around the world, is host for seven-hundred plus delegates, publishes approximately 10 books, publishes four issues of its prestigious International Review of Administrative Sciences (in three editions English, French and Mandarin Chinese), \nleads and coordinates activities among its ninety Member States and National Sections.\n\nA specialised organisation: \n\nThree regional organisations: \neach of which conducts study, research and networking.\n\nThe IIAS count members from every regions of the world as well as several international organisations.\n\nThe membership is divided into different categories:\n\nany non-governmental international organisation \n\nThe management bodies of the International Institute of Administrative Sciences are:\n\n\nThe Council of Administration ensures the management and direct control of the affairs of the Institute, decides on the proposal of the Programme and Research Advisory Committee the Institute's programme of activities, and establishes the Institute's annual budget in accordance with the directions of the Council of Administration. Its President, who also holds the title of President of the International Institute of Administrative Sciences, is Prof. Dr. Geert Bouckaert KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.\n\nThe General Assembly lays down the general policy governing the work of the Institute and defines the methods of operation of the various services of the Institute. It approves the budget and adopts the statement of accounts on the basis of the report of the auditor that it appoints. The members of the Council of Administration are representatives from Member States, National Sections and International Organisations (please see the list of IIAS Members) convene under the chairmanship of the IIAS President.\n\nGeneral Directorate is the day-to-day management body in Brussels and is led by Mr. Sofiane Sahraoui, Director General.\n\n"}
{"id": "30273440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30273440", "title": "Internet Party (Spain)", "text": "Internet Party (Spain)\n\nThe Internet Party (Partido de Internet in Spanish) is a political party founded in 2009 in Spain that tries to develop a liquid democracy system within the current legal system. The Internet Party has no ideology. They support an open list system where the elected members act representing the decisions taken by citizens in the Internet platform.\n\nDuring the Spanish general election 2011, the Internet Party presented 8 candidates in the electoral district of Cádiz and received 603 votes (0.09%).\n\n"}
{"id": "43650416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43650416", "title": "Karen Robson (sociologist)", "text": "Karen Robson (sociologist)\n\nKaren Robson (born 1973) is an Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology at McMaster University, and the Ontario Research Chair in Educational Achievement and At-Risk Youth. Robson is noted for her work on statistics, youth policy in a European context and the role of information technology and television on various social groups.\n\nRobson holds a PhD in applied social and economic research from the University of Essex in England, during which she worked on a UNICEF funded project which examined the correlates of young parenthood the European Union \n\nRobson has worked as a Research Officer at the Institute of Social and Economic Research. She has worked with UNICEF and the UK Department of Health, examining the correlates of young parenthood the European Union and the differences in the socioeconomic disadvantages of early mothers by ethnic groups in Britain. Robson joined the Department of Sociology at York University in 2004 and has held short post-doctoral positions at the Centre for Research on the Wider Benefits of Learning at the Institute of Education between 2006 and 2007, and The Geary Institute at University College Dublin between 2007 and 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "46378908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46378908", "title": "McAfee Institute", "text": "McAfee Institute\n\nMcAfee Institute LLC., is a privately held online education company in the U.S. providing professional development and training in the areas of cyber investigations, intelligence, law enforcement, loss prevention, fraud investigations, deception detection, and leadership.\nThe McAfee Institute is best known as a professional certification body which administers several board certifications for the intelligence and investigative sectors. Topics available for training include cryptocurrency investigations, cyber intelligence and investigations, counterintelligence, human trafficking, workplace violence, active shooter, organized retail crime, leadership, incident response, digital forensics, fraud, deception detection and more.\n\nFounded in 2010, the McAfee Institute is a professional certification and training organization focused on the intelligence and investigative sectors. \n\nBy 2018, the McAfee Institute has grown to offer several industry recognized board certifications. The Governing Board of McAfee Institute oversees the certification affairs of the organization, contributes to the global standards of our certifications and helps to institute policy and actions by the membership during meetings or by ballot. The Governing Board consists of some of the worlds best in Federal, Local & State Law Enforcement, Intelligence, Loss Prevention, Cyber Security & Private Investigation from around the globe.\n\nThe McAfee Institute has partnered with the Dept of Homeland Securities National Initiative for Cybersecurity Careers and Studies (NICCS) and is listed on their site as a provider of professional certifications in this space. The McAfee Institute is also partner with and recognized by ILEETA The International Law Enforcement Educators and Trainers Association.\n\nMcAfee Institute is certified to operate with the Missouri Dept of Education as a proprietary school. The central focus of the Proprietary School Certification Program is consumer protection. This is accomplished through the establishment of standards for school operation and monitoring of those operations to ensure students are treated in a fair and equitable manner and receive education and training consistent with the published objectives of the instructional programs and the school.\n\nMcAfee Institute is a CPE Sponsor with the National Registry of CPE Sponsors is a program offered by the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) to recognize CPE program sponsors who provide continuing professional education (CPE) programs in accordance with nationally recognized standards. \n\nThe McAfee Institutes resident based (in-person) certification training programs have been approved through the Veterans Administration for G.I. Bill Benefits, effective November 12, 2018.\n\nMcAfee Institute exams are approved for reimbursement through the VA if you are eligible. There is no limit to the number of exams you may take, or number of times you may take the same exam. And, VA will pay for exams even if you fail them.\n\nMcAfee Institute programs are approved for POST continuing education credits with the following POST. \n\nMissouri Peace Officer Standards and Training (CLEE)  \n\nMcAfee Institute's is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri.\n\nThe majority of McAfee Institute faculty are not M.I. employees, but industry professionals and respected experts in the field of intelligence and investigations. The faculty is organized into six different levels: Certified Instructors, Mentors, Adjunct Instructors, & Senior Instructors.\n\nThe institute provides following certifications:\n\n\nRetired Credentials for 2018\n\n"}
{"id": "22530105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22530105", "title": "Ministry of Health (Tajikistan)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Tajikistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Health is a government ministry that governs and manages healthcare and the health industry in Tajikistan, including the nation's public health system. The Ministry was founded in 2006 and is located in Dushanbe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844468", "title": "Minority Front", "text": "Minority Front\n\nThe Minority Front is a political party in South Africa. Though the party aims to represent all minorities of South Africa, its support comes mainly from South Africa's Indian community. Its largest base of political strength is in the province of KwaZulu-Natal, especially the city of Durban which is the cultural and demographic centre of South Africa's Indian community. It was led by the charismatic Amichand Rajbansi until his death in December 2011.\n\nIt was formed as a successor to the National People's Party, which was an important party led by Rajbansi in the Indian-only House of Delegates in the Tricameral Parliament.\n\nAfter his death, Rajbansi's widow, Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi, was appointed as leader in January 2012. A leadership and family battle erupted when an attempt was made to replace Thakur-Rajbansi as leader, with Amichand Rajbansi's son, Vimal, and first wife, Asha Devi Rajbansi, asking her to step down, and a breakaway conference (not recognized by the IEC) elected Roy Bhoola, who Thakur-Rajbansi had attempted to remove from public office. Thakur-Rajbansi was declared the undisputed leader in December 2013 after the parties settled their disputes in a confidential agreement.\n\n! Election\n! Total votes\n! Share of vote\n! Seats \n! Government\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n\n! rowspan=2 | Election\n! colspan=2 | Eastern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Free State\n! colspan=2 | Gauteng\n! colspan=2 | Kwazulu-Natal\n! colspan=2 | Limpopo\n! colspan=2 | Mpumalanga\n! colspan=2 | North-West\n! colspan=2 | Northern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Western Cape\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! 1994\n! 1999\n! 2004\n! 2009\n! 2014\n\n! Election\n! Votes\n! 1995-96\n! 2000\n! 2006\n! 2011\n! 2016\n"}
{"id": "41175898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41175898", "title": "Molad: The Center for the Renewal of Israeli Democracy", "text": "Molad: The Center for the Renewal of Israeli Democracy\n\nMolad: The Center for the Renewal of Israeli Democracy (מולד) is a progressive Israeli think tank established in 2012 in Jerusalem. The Center's website describes it as \"dedicated to the fundamental political and social issues of Israeli life\".\n\nMolad was created in 2012, and its work is divided into three content categories: security and state, citizenship, and socio-economics. Its founders are Avraham Burg, Assaf Sharon and Avner Inbar. Its executive director is Liat Schlesinger, and its academic director is Dr. Assaf Sharon.\n\nAccording to a 2012 article in \"Haaretz\", Molad is \"committed to leftist renewal\" in Israel and believes that \"the left must present reliable, comprehensible policy on key issues, a policy aimed at reviving the left as a credible, viable political force.\" Its political views are progressive.\n\nSince its founding, the Center's senior fellows have included high-profile Israeli academics and politicians including Professor of Law Chaim Gans, \nBezalel Academy of Art and Design President Eva Illouz, Talia Sasson, author of the Sasson Report. Fellows include economists such as Israel Prize winner Dr. Menahem Yaari and Aix Group co-founder Arie Arnon.\n\nMolad partnered with the Center for American Progress in organizing a symposium addressing U.S. and Israeli foreign policy and regional security in the Middle East, on 1 April 2014.\n\nMolad is opposed to Israeli settlements in the West Bank. One Molad representative has called the settlement movement a geographical failure, and another stated that the reversibility of the settlements is highly possible. It produced a 2012 report concluding that Israel does not have a \"Hasbara\", or \"PR\", problem, but that its image is instead harmed by poor policy.\"\n\nAlso in 2012, Molad published another report recommending the revival of the Arab Peace Initiative. It supported Chuck Hagel's nomination for U.S. Secretary of Defense.\n\nThe organization published a report in June 2013 which states that the proposed Basic Law declaring Israel the \"nation-state of the Jewish people\" is “both illegitimate and dangerous” and “undermines the original values of Zionism.” According to the report: \"It is illegitimate because its formulators and backers are attempting to… decide on issues of profound controversy regarding identity, culture, and society.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "305300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305300", "title": "National Revolutionary Army", "text": "National Revolutionary Army\n\nThe National Revolutionary Army (NRA), sometimes shortened to Revolutionary Army (革命軍) before 1928, and as National Army (國軍) after 1928, was the military arm of the Kuomintang (KMT, or the Chinese Nationalist Party) from 1925 until 1947 in the Republic of China. It also became the regular army of the ROC during the KMT's period of party rule beginning in 1928. It was renamed the Republic of China Armed Forces after the 1947 Constitution, which instituted civilian control of the military.\n\nOriginally organized with Soviet aid as a means for the KMT to unify China during the Warlord Era, the National Revolutionary Army fought major engagements in the Northern Expedition against the Chinese Beiyang Army warlords, in the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945) against the Imperial Japanese Army and in the Chinese Civil War against the People's Liberation Army.\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War, the armed forces of the Communist Party of China were nominally incorporated into the National Revolutionary Army (while retaining separate commands), but broke away to form the People's Liberation Army shortly after the end of the war. With the promulgation of the Constitution of the Republic of China in 1947 and the formal end of the KMT party-state, the National Revolutionary Army was renamed the Republic of China Armed Forces, with the bulk of its forces forming the Republic of China Army, which retreated to the island of Taiwan in 1949.\n\nThe NRA was founded by the KMT in 1925 as the military force destined to unite China in the Northern Expedition. Organized with the help of the Comintern and guided under the doctrine of the Three Principles of the People, the distinction among party, state and army was often blurred. A large number of the Army's officers passed through the Whampoa Military Academy, and the first commandant, Chiang Kai-shek, became commander-in-chief of the Army in 1925 before launching the successful Northern Expedition. Other prominent commanders included Du Yuming and Chen Cheng. The end of the Northern Expedition in 1928 is often taken as the date when China's Warlord era ended, though smaller-scale warlord activity continued for years afterwards.\n\nIn 1927, after the dissolution of the First United Front between the Nationalists and the Communists, the ruling KMT purged its leftist members and largely eliminated Soviet influence from its ranks. Chiang Kai-shek then turned to Germany, historically a great military power, for the reorganization and modernization of the National Revolutionary Army. The Weimar Republic sent advisors to China, but because of the restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles they could not serve in military capacities. Chiang initially requested famous generals such as Ludendorff and von Mackensen as advisors; the Weimar Republic government turned him down, however, fearing that they were too famous, would invite the ire of the Allies and that it would result in the loss of national prestige for such renowned figures to work, essentially, as mercenaries.\n\nWhen Adolf Hitler became Chancellor in 1933 and disavowed the Treaty, the anti-communist Nazi Party and the anti-communist KMT were soon engaged in close cooperation. with Germany training Chinese troops and expanding Chinese infrastructure, while China opened its markets and natural resources to Germany. Max Bauer was the first advisor to China.\n\nIn 1934 Gen. Hans von Seeckt, acting as advisor to Chiang, proposed an \"80 Division Plan\" for reforming the entire Chinese army into 80 divisions of highly trained, well-equipped troops organised along German lines. The plan was never fully realised, as the eternally bickering warlords could not agree upon which divisions were to be merged and disbanded. Furthermore, since embezzlement and fraud were commonplace, especially in understrength divisions (the state of most of the divisions), reforming the military structure would threaten divisional commanders' \"take\". Therefore, by July 1937 only eight infantry divisions had completed reorganization and training. These were the 3rd, 6th, 9th, 14th, 36th, 87th, 88th, and the Training Division.\n\nFor a time, during the Second Sino-Japanese War, Communist forces fought as a nominal part of the National Revolutionary Army, forming the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army units, but this co-operation later fell apart. Throughout the Chinese Civil War the National Revolutionary Army experienced major problems with desertion, with many soldiers switching sides to fight for the Communists.\n\nTroops in India and Burma during World War II included the Chinese Expeditionary Force (Burma), the Chinese Army in India and Y Force.\n\nAfter the drafting and implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of China in 1947, the National Revolutionary Army was renamed as the Republic of China Armed Forces.\n\nAt the apex of the NRA was the National Military Council, also translated as Military Affairs Commission. Chaired by Chiang Kai-Shek, it directed the staffs and commands. It included from 1937 the Chief of the General Staff, General He Yingqin, the General Staff, the War Ministry, the military regions, air and naval forces, air defence and garrison commanders, and support services.\n\nThe NRA throughout its lifespan recruited approximately 4,300,000 regulars, in 370 Standard Divisions (正式師), 46 New Divisions (新編師), 12 Cavalry Divisions (騎兵師), eight New Cavalry Divisions (新編騎兵師), 66 Temporary Divisions (暫編師), and 13 Reserve Divisions (預備師), for a grand total of 515 divisions. However, many divisions were formed from two or more other divisions, and were not active at the same time.\n\nAlso, New Divisions were created to replace Standard Divisions lost early in the war and were issued the old division's number. Therefore, the number of divisions in active service at any given time is much smaller than this. The average NRA division had 5,000–6,000 troops; an average army division had 10,000–15,000 troops, the equivalent of a Japanese division. Not even the German-trained divisions were on par in terms of manpower with a German or Japanese division, having only 10,000 men.\n\nThe United States Army's campaign brochure on the China Defensive campaign of 1942–45 said:\n\nThe NRA only had small number of armoured vehicles and mechanised troops. At the beginning of the war in 1937 the armour were organized in three Armoured Battalions, equipped with tanks and armoured cars from various countries. After these battalions were mostly destroyed in the Battle of Shanghai and Battle of Nanjing. The newly provided tanks, armoured cars, and trucks from the Soviet Union and Italy made it possible to create the only mechanized division in the army, the 200th Division. This Division eventually ceased to be a mechanized unit after the June 1938 reorganization of Divisions. The armoured and artillery Regiments were placed under direct command of 5th Corps and the 200th Division became a motorized Infantry Division within the same Corps. This Corps fought battles in Guangxi in 1939–1940 and in the Battle of Yunnan-Burma Road in 1942 reducing the armored units due to losses and mechanical breakdown of the vehicles. On paper China had 3.8 million men under arms in 1941. They were organized into 246 \"front-line\" divisions, with another 70 divisions assigned to rear areas. Perhaps as many as forty Chinese divisions had been equipped with European-manufactured weapons and trained by foreign, particularly German and Soviet, advisers. The rest of the units were under strength and generally untrained. Overall, the Nationalist Army impressed most Western military observers as more reminiscent of a 19th- than a 20th-century army.\n\nLate in the Burma Campaign the NRA Army there had an armored battalion equipped with Sherman tanks.\n\nDespite the poor reviews given by European observers to the European-trained Divisions, the Muslim Divisions of the National Revolutionary Army, trained in China (not by westerners) and led by Ma Clique Muslim generals, frightened the European observers with their appearance and fighting skills in battle. Europeans like Sven Hedin and Georg Vasel were in awe of the appearance Chinese Muslim NRA divisions made and their ferocious combat abilities. They were trained in harsh, brutal conditions. The 36th Division (National Revolutionary Army), trained entirely in China without any European help, was composed of Chinese Muslims and fought and severely mauled an invading Soviet Russian army during the Soviet Invasion of Xinjiang. The division was lacking in technology and manpower, but badly damanged the superior Russian force.\n\nThe Muslim divisions of the army controlled by Muslim Gen. Ma Hongkui were reported by western observers to be tough and disciplined despite having diabetes. Ma Hongkui personally drilled with his troops, and engaged in sword fencing during training.\n\nWhen the leaders of many of the warlord and provincial armies joined with the KMT and were appointed as officers and generals, their troops joined the NRA. These armies were renamed as NRA divisions. The entire Ma Clique armies were absorbed into the NRA. When the Muslim Ma Clique General Ma Qi joined the KMT, the Ninghai Army was renamed the National Revolutionary Army 26th Division.\n\nThe unit organisation of the NRA is as follows: (Note that a unit is not necessarily subordinate to one immediately above it; several army regiments can be found under an army group, for example.)\nThe commander-in-chief of the NRA from 1925 to 1947 was Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nMilitary Affairs Commission\n\nDuring the Xinhai Revolution and the Warlord Era of the Republic of China (1912–1949), \"Dare to Die Corps\" () or \"Suicide squads\" were frequently used by Chinese armies. China deployed these suicide units against the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\n\"Dare to Die\" troops were used by warlords in their armies to conduct suicide attacks. \"Dare to Die\" corps continued to be used in the Chinese military. The Kuomintang used one to put down an insurrection in Canton. Many women joined them in addition to men to achieve martyrdom against China's opponents.\n\nA \"dare to die corps\" was effectively used against Japanese units at the Battle of Taierzhuang. They used swords.\nSuicide bombing was also used against the Japanese. A Chinese soldier detonated a grenade vest and killed 20 Japanese soldiers at Sihang Warehouse. Chinese troops strapped explosives like grenade packs or dynamite to their bodies and threw themselves under Japanese tanks to blow them up. This tactic was used during the Battle of Shanghai, where a Chinese suicide bomber stopped a Japanese tank column by exploding himself beneath the lead tank, and at the Battle of Taierzhuang where dynamite and grenades were strapped on by Chinese troops who rushed at Japanese tanks and blew themselves up. In one incident at Taierzhuang, Chinese suicide bombers obliterated four Japanese tanks with grenade bundles.\n\nDuring the Chinese Civil War the National Revolutionary Army (NRA) was known to have used penal battalions from 1945 to 1949. A unit made up of deserters and those accused of cowardice, the penal battalion was giving such tasks as scouting ahead of the main forces to check for ambushes, crossing rivers and torrents to see whether they were fordable, and walking across unmapped minefields.\n\nThe military was formed through bloody and inhumane conscription campaigns . These are described by Rudolph Rummel as:\nThis was a deadly affair in which men were kidnapped for the army, rounded up indiscriminately by press-gangs or army units among those on the roads or in the towns and villages, or otherwise gathered together. Many men, some the very young and old, were killed resisting or trying to escape. Once collected, they would be roped or chained together and marched, with little food or water, long distances to camp. They often died or were killed along the way, sometimes less than 50 percent reaching camp alive. Then recruit camp was no better, with hospitals resembling Nazi concentration camps like Buchenwald.3 Probably 3,081,000 died during the Sino-Japanese War; likely another 1,131,000 during the Civil War--4,212,000 dead in total.\n\nChinese weapons were mainly produced for the National Revolutionary Army in the Hanyang, Guangdong and Taiyuan Arsenals.\nFor regular provincial Chinese divisions the standard rifles were the Hanyang 88 (copy of Gewehr 88). Central army divisions were typically equipped with the Chiang Kai-shek rifle (copy of Mauser Standard Model) and Czechoslovakian vz. 24. However, for most of the German-trained divisions, the standard firearms were German-made 7.92 mm Gewehr 98 and Karabiner 98k. The standard light machine gun was a local copy of the Czech 7.92 mm Brno ZB26. There were also Belgian and French light machine guns. Provincial units generally did not possess any machine guns, while Central Army units had one LMG per platoon on average. The German-trained divisions ideally had 1 LMG per squad. Surprisingly, the NRA did not purchase any Maschinengewehr 34s from Germany, but did produce its own copies of them. Heavy machine guns were mainly locally-made Type 24 water-cooled Maxim guns (which were the Chinese copies of the German MG08), and Type 30 M1917 Browning machine guns chambered for the standard 8mm Mauser round. On average, every Central Army battalion would get one heavy machine gun (about a third to half of what actual German divisions got during World War II). The standard sidearm for NCOs and officers was the 7.63 mm Mauser C96 semi-automatic pistol, or full-automatic Mauser M1932/M712 machine pistol. These full-automatic versions were used as substitutes for submachine guns (such as the MP 18) and rifles that were in short supply within the Chinese army prior to the end of World War II. Throughout the Second Sino-Japanese War, particularly in the early years, the NRA also extensively used captured Japanese weapons and equipment. as their own were in short supply. Some élite units also used Lend-Lease US equipment as the war progressed.\n\nMajor Chinese Arsenals:\nGenerally speaking, the regular provincial army divisions did not possess any artillery. However, some Central Army divisions were equipped with 37 mm PaK 35/36 anti-tank guns, and/or mortars from Oerlikon, Madsen, and Solothurn. Each of these infantry divisions ideally had 6 French Brandt 81 mm mortars and 6 Solothurn 20 mm autocannons. Some independent brigades and artillery regiments were equipped with Bofors 72 mm L/14, or Krupp 72 mm L/29 mountain guns and there were 24 Rheinmetall 150 mm L/32 sFH 18 howitzers (bought in 1934) and 24 Krupp 150 mm L/30 sFH 18 howitzers (bought in 1936). At the start of the war, the NRA and the Tax Police Regiment had three tank battalions armed with German Panzer I light tanks and CV-33 tankettes. After defeat in the Battle of Shanghai the remaining tanks, together with several hundred T-26 and BT-5 tanks acquired from the Soviet Union were reorganised into the 200th Division.\n\nInfantry uniforms were basically redesigned Zhongshan suits. Puttees were standard for soldiers and officers alike, since the primary mode of movement for NRA troops was by foot. Troops were also issued sewn field caps. The helmets were the most distinguishing characteristic of these divisions. From the moment German M35 helmets (standard issue for the Wehrmacht until late in the European theatre) rolled off the production lines in 1935, and until 1936, the NRA imported 315,000 of these helmets, each with the Blue Sky with a White Sun emblem of the ROC on the sides. These helmets were worn by both elite German-trained divisions and regular Central Army divisions. Other helmets included the French Adrian helmet, the British Brodie helmet and later the American M1 helmet. Other equipment included straw shoes for soldiers (cloth shoes for Central Army), leather shoes for officers and leather boots for high-ranking officers. Every soldier was issued ammunition for his weapon, along with ammunition pouches or harness, a water flask, combat knives, food bag, and a gas mask.\nSpears and swords in addition to rifles were used by the Muslim Ma Clique sections of the National Revolutionary Army, who were renowned for their fine cavalry. The Muslims had an assortment of rifles, German, British, Russian and others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58812372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58812372", "title": "Nationalist Youth of Catalonia", "text": "Nationalist Youth of Catalonia\n\nNationalist Youth of Catalonia (\"Joventut Nacionalista de Catalunya\", JNC) is the youth organisation of the Catalan European Democratic Party (PDeCAT), founded in 1980 as the youth group of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia (CDC). Sergi Miquel (also a PDeCAT member of Congress for Girona is the general secretary since 2015.\n\nJNC was founded on april 1980 in Platja d'Aro by young members of CDC, refounded in 2016 as the PDeCAT. The organization gradually evolved to independentist positions, which also influenced the political orientation of CDC.\n\n"}
{"id": "57840204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57840204", "title": "Nicolas Blancho", "text": "Nicolas Blancho\n\nNicolas Andrev Blancho (called \"Abu Ammar Abdullah\" or \"Abdallah\"), born on 12 September 1983 in Biel, originates from Rüeggisberg. He is President of the Islamic Central Council of Switzerland (ICCS).\n\nFunded by Qatar, and associated with a member of the House of Al Thani, Blancho is the subject of several controversies, including spreading jihadist propaganda, anti-semitism, attempting to obtain a weapon, and praising the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nAccording to a report by the \"Weltwoche\", Blancho grew up in Biel as a nonbeliever in a family of liberal thought. After secondary school, he first began an apprenticeship in print production. He converted to Islam at the age of 16. He left the apprenticeship, continued high school and studied law and Islamic studies at the University of Bern in 2007.\n\nIn 2004, Blancho founded the company \"Alquds Food GmbH\", importing food especially from Tunisia. The company was liquidated in 2007. In 2006, he founded with Abdul Hamid Al-Fayek the food import and export company \"A & B Tradex GmbH\", which was then liquidated in 2013.\n\nBlancho is fluent in German, French and Arabic. He is \"de facto\" polygamous, in spite of the ban of polygamy in Swiss law. He married officially a Yemeni woman and then got married with a woman of Kosovo according to Islamic law. According to sources close to ICCS, he has at least a third wife.\n\nBlancho follows a Salafist form of Islam, which excludes a modern interpretation of the scriptures. He described lapidating as \"an element, a value of my religion\". Since 2003, Nicolas Blancho has been known for his fight to introduce the Sharia law in Switzerland.\n\nBlancho is founder and chairman of the ICCS, together with Qaasim Illi, who was condemned in 2005 for pornography (coprophilia) and anti-semitism.\n\nOver the years, Blancho accumulated many debts, for a total amount of 200,000 Swiss francs, according to a press article published in November 2017. This amount comprises the debts of his bankrupt companies, but also unpaid tax bills, health insurance premiums, contributions to social insurance and car repair bills.\n\nAccording to politician Henri-Charles Beuchat, it is highly probable that Blancho receives social assistance from the municipality of Bern.\n\nThe press characterises Blancho, much like the members Islamic Central Council of Switzerland, as a minority of dangerous radicalised Islamists. Other newspaper articles highlight his links with terrorism.\n\nThe public prosecutor of Switzerland opened an investigation in November 2016 against Blancho and Qaasim Illi following the publication of a video jihadist propaganda. Another recording suggests he supports the Islamic State group.\n\nIn May 2018, the Federal Court of Switzerland confirmed a decision of the police of Bern not to allow Blancho to carry a gun. “There were concrete indications the complainant himself could jeopardize third parties”, said a lower court in Bern, where Blancho appealed the decision.\n\nAccording to \"Le Temps\", the Swiss Federal Intelligence Service (FIS) is investigating the links between Blancho and Islamists based in Qatar deemed close to al-Qaeda, such as Abdulrahman al-Nuaimi and Ali Abdullah al-Suwaidi.\n\nBlancho is financially supported by Qatar.\n\nHe heads the Swiss associations Aziz Aid and Qoranona with Abdulaziz Abdulrahman H.A. Al-Thani, a senior member of the Qatari ruling family, the House of Al Thani.\n\nIn a YouTube interview, Blancho also thanks the Sheikh Thani Bin Abdullah Foundation for Humanitarian Services for its financial support.\n"}
{"id": "23087477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23087477", "title": "Nuclear-Free Future Award", "text": "Nuclear-Free Future Award\n\nSince 1998 the Nuclear-Free Future Award (NFFA) is an award given to anti-nuclear activists, organizations and communities. The award is intended to promote opposition to uranium mining, nuclear weapons and nuclear power.\n\nThe NFFA is a project of the Franz Moll Foundation for the Coming Generations and gives out awards in three categories: Resistance ($10,000 prize), Education ($10,000 prize) and Solutions ($10,000 prize). Additional optional categories are Lifetime Achievement and Special Recognition (contemporary work of art). The award ceremonies take place all around the world.\n\nThe NFFA is financed by donations, charity events, and benefit auctions.\n\nThe Nuclear-Free Future Award Laureates:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4793652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4793652", "title": "PMU 18 scandal", "text": "PMU 18 scandal\n\nThe PMU 18 scandal is a multi-million dollar political corruption scandal that involved accusations of embezzlement, bribery, nepotism, and gambling at the Vietnamese Ministry of Transport (\"Bộ Giao thông Vận tải\", GTVT) at the beginning of 2006. The scandal received extensive press coverage in Vietnam, a rarity in the one-party state. It generated a great public outcry in Vietnam and controversy in other countries and at organizations that provided Official Development Assistance (ODA) to the country. Due to the scandal, Transport Minister Đào Đình Bình was forced to resign and his deputy was arrested. The scandal became a major issue leading up to the Tenth National Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam, when the government leadership was being reviewed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the scandal, the Vietnamese government clamped down on journalists reporting on the case. Two prominent journalists were tried and convicted of \"abusing democratic freedoms\" and propagating \"false information\". Two police officers involved in the case were also convicted of \"disclosing work secrets\".\n\nProject Management Unit 18 (PMU-18) is a bureau within the transportation ministry for road construction and other infrastructure projects. It has a budget of 2 billion USD, which includes funds from overseas donors, notably Japan, the European Union, Australia and the World Bank.\n\nIn early January 2006, , Executive Director of PMU-18, was detained, and it was announced that 1.8 million dollars had been embezzled to gamble on football matches. He was also accused of using the payouts to pay for prostitutes. The police found files inside the unit's computers revealing that over 200 employees at the unit had participated in the gambling. He is also under investigation over the procurement of luxury vehicles for other government officials.\n\nDeputy Transport Minister Nguyễn Việt Tiến, a former head of PMU-18, was soon also detained and his home was searched.\n\nThe scandal affected many high-ranking officials. It was revealed that Bùi Tiến Dũng attempted to bribe officials after his arrest. People in the Prime Minister's office were investigated and the General Secretary's son-in-law was also implicated. A vice chief of police was implicated and withdrew his name from the list of delegates to the National Congress.\n\nIn early April 2006, Transport Minister Đào Đình Bình resigned, accepting responsibility for the embezzlement of millions of dollars of state money by his staff. This took place days before the opening of the Tenth National Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam.\n\nIn March 2008, charges against Nguyễn Việt Tiến were dropped and his Communist Party membership was later reinstated.\n\nThe scandal is notable in that the press was initially allowed to report on the issue in great depth. Several years earlier, such topics were taboo in the Vietnamese press, as the Communist Party keeps a tight grip on the media. Major newspapers openly ridiculed the officials involved and called for their resignations. Some observers attribute this to internal conflicts within the party between reformers and hardliners. Others see this as a normal occurrence before every National Congress and expect things to return to normal after the Congress ends.\n\nIn mid-2007, police questioned dozens of journalists who covered the case for the sources of certain published information. In May 2008, two reporters were arrested for \"abuse of power for personal gain\" while reporting about the scandal. In addition, several senior police officers involved with the case, including the major general in charge, were indicted for revealing certain information about the case to the press. The arrests unleashed a torrent of protests from journalists and bloggers in Vietnam, leading to a highly unusual confrontation between the state-controlled press and the communist government. However, several days later, the newspapers were silent on the topic, and newspapers that continued to report it reportedly received warnings from the authorities.\n\nIn October, the journalists were convicted of \"abusing democratic freedoms\" and propagating \"false informations\" and the police officers were convicted of \"disclosing work secret\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45660540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45660540", "title": "Party funding in Israel", "text": "Party funding in Israel\n\nParty funding in Israel covers all funds which are raised and spent to influence political competition between Israeli parties, especially the campaigns for national (Knesset) and municipal elections as well as the routine operation of party organizations. Ever since the Yishuv. the pre-state formation of Jewish life in Eretz Israel, political parties have been the foremost organizations of the polity.\n\nAlthough it is widely believed that Israel is \"the most expensive democracy per voter in the world\" authors rarely provide summaries of the overall expenses for party competition. In 1960 Alexander Heard mentioned more than US-$5.00 per voter. Arnold Heidenheiomer (1963) allocated an index value of 20.50 (both the highest values in their sample). In 1984 Howard Penniman reported US-$4.34 per citizen (much lower than Venezuela's US-$20.35). Based on data for the 1990s a German study ranked Israel together with Austria, Italy and Japan among the top spenders on party politics.\n\nFor the period between 1973 and 1992, Mendilow assumes a relative decline of ongoing expenses as compared to the escalation of campaign spending. Between 1973 and 1984, current operations of parties amounted to US-$2.8 and US-$7.0 million. If the legal spending limit was equal to actual campaign spending, US-$26 million per year were needed for current operations in 1989.\n\nBoth in election and non-elections years, parties incur different kinds of expenditure. During non-election periods, most party funds are spent on salaries for paid party workers and expenses for permanent offices. Over time, the outlay for public meetings in Israel has declined, whereas the importance of advertising and media has grown considerably. However, on election day, Israeli parties continue to spend on taxis to bring voters to the polls and to pay for party workers' food and time. \"Such expenses can amount to between 25 and 33 per cent of campaign expenses.\"\n\nParty membership used to be a major source of funding when a high percentage of the adult population were members of a political party. However, just like in other democracies) party membership has decreased. In 1969 still 18 per cent of the citizens retained a membership, in 1990 there were roughly just 7 per cent left. The share of party income from membership was less than 10 per cent of the total then.\n\n\"Individual contributions to general elections are permitted as long as they originate from donors who are Israeli citizens and residents above the age of eighteen,\" provided the donation does not exceed NIS 50,000 and it is not anonymous. A report in \"Haaretz\" contends that somehow non-residents made political contributions in 2015.\n\nIn 1969, Israel had started to provide public funding for party activity. This source of revenue has increased its importance ever since. Between 1975 and 1984, public subsidies had covered about 85 per cent of declared annual routine expenses.\n\nPublic law stipulates a variety of rules for the flow of money in politics. Israeli laws restrict both donations and expenses. Most of the rules concern political parties. However, as candidates run their own campaigns in party primaries, these under surveillance for 30 days, too. For candidates in primaries donations by foreign individuals are permitted. Applicable are the Political Parties (Financing) Law, 5733-1973, and the Parties Law, 5752-1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36732448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36732448", "title": "Paul Gilding", "text": "Paul Gilding\n\nPaul Gilding is an Australian environmentalist, consultant, and author. Gilding, a former executive director of Greenpeace International, and a Fellow at University of Cambridge’s Institute for Sustainability Leadership, is the author of \"The Great Disruption: Why the Climate Crisis Will Bring On the End of Shopping and the Birth of a New World\" (2011). In 2012, Gilding delivered a presentation on the thesis of his book at the 2012 TED conference titled \"The Earth is Full\", which earned him press attention. He lives in southern Tasmania with his wife and children.\n\nGilding started his career as an activist in his early teens, focusing on South African \"apartheid\" and Aboriginal land rights. While serving in the Australian Air Force, he also became involved in the nuclear disarmament movement. According to an interview on \"AlterNet\", Gilding's experience in anti-nuclear politics led to a greater awareness of environmental issues and led him to join Greenpeace in the 1980s, becoming involved in direct actions against corporate polluters. Between 1989 and 1994, Gilding served as the executive director of Greenpeace Australia and, later, Greenpeace International.\n\nGilding serves on the advisory board of The Climate Mobilization, a grassroots advocacy group calling for a global economic mobilization against climate change on the scale of the American home front during World War II, with the goal of 100% clean energy and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.\n\nIn \"The Great Disruption\", Gilding posits that the ongoing financial crisis is a symptom of human civilization growing beyond Earth's ability to support it, and is tied to the threat posed by climate change and other forms of environmental degradation. Because of this, Gilding calls for an end to the whole concept of exponential economic growth, which he blames for the consumption and waste that has led to both the economic and ecological crises facing mankind and modern civilization.\n\nFurthermore, in a departure from many environmental writers — such as James Lovelock, Clive Hamilton, Richard Heinberg and James Howard Kunstler — Gilding argues that people will work together through the climate crisis and that humanity as a whole will eventually act in time to save civilization, \"albeit\" too late to prevent catastrophic consequences; Gilding bases this argument on the ingenuity of past generations in the midst of crisis, particularly World War II. Gilding also believes that the global economy will fully embrace sustainable energy when societies fully accept the reality of climate change and abandon fossil fuel resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19303260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19303260", "title": "People's Liberation Army, Nepal", "text": "People's Liberation Army, Nepal\n\nPeople's Liberation Army, Nepal () was the armed wing of the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) (CPN(M)). The PLA was founded in 2002, in the midst of the Nepal Civil War initiated by the Maoists in 1996. The chief commander of the PLA during the war was Prachanda (Pushpa Kamal Dahal). On September 12, 2008, Nanda Kishor Pun was appointed new chief commander of the PLA, as Prachanda had become Prime Minister of Nepal. This move was in line with a pledge issued by the CPN(M), issued prior to the 2008 Constituent Assembly election, that their members elected to the Assembly would leave their PLA positions.\n\nFollowing the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, the PLA soldiers stay in cantoments. The CPA stipulates that PLA and the Royal Nepal Army should be integrated. The government of Dahal claims the PLA-NA integrations will be completed by six months.\n\nAfter the negotiations with Government of the king broke down, CPN(M) decided changing their strategy. Meanwhile Maoist senior leader C.P. Gajurel was arrested on August 20, 2003 at Chennai International Airport. In January and February 2004 CPN(M) suffered a big setback and lost more than 80 armies attacking different regions of Nepal. There was a pressure from international side, the human rights organization for the brutal killings and kidnappings of civil countrymen during the insurgency. Issuing a press statement on March 16, 2004 Chairman Prachanda said, \"Our party has been committed to the fundamental norms of human rights and the Geneva convention since the start of the people’s war. Anyone who without prejudice judges the facts of the eight years can find our People’s Liberation Army has been showing respectful behaviour, treatment to the injured and releasing the prisoners of the war in good condition.\"\n\nDuring this period the party changed their military tactics, strategic offence. The PLA was immediately instructed to coverage at Thawang in Rolpa to prepare for a major offensive. The foremost responsibility was provided to the Western command of the PLA. The People’s Liberation Army from the brigades at Mangalsen, Gorahi-Satbaria, Lise-Gam and Basu Memorial were in Thawang by 8 March. All the PLA men were introduced with the war strategy and instructed for a major attack, the one in the last years of history of the people’s war. The responsibility of executing the plan was entitled to Diwakar, a senior Maoist leader which was believed to be worked out by chairman Prachanda. Between March 8 and 11, PLA commanders Diwakar and Pasang (current commander-in-chief of PLA) built sand models to illustrate the war strategy.\n\nOn March 12, the armed forces began moving towards the east with nearly about 3000 combatants. With a heavy preparation of arms, lodging, medicine, the PLA were into their destination. From Rolpa, the PLA made their way to Baglung through Rukum. Commander Pasang was in regular contact with chairman Prachanda. Before reaching Beni, the headquarters of Myagdi district, the PLA was given a final briefing about the war operation. The PLA attacked at 11 pm, March 20. The battle lasted throughout the night till 10 am, the next day. The Royal Nepal Army claimed killing of about 500 Maoist combattants. But opposing the claim, a statement released by Comrade Biplav claimed the killing of about 120 RNA and 26 policemen. 33 people include RNA soldiers, policemen and CDO with Deputy Superintendent of Police was taken prisoners by the PLA. CPN(M) proposed the releasing of their senior leaders Matrika Yadav, Suresh Ale Magar, Tilak Sharma and others in account of releasing the prisoners.\n\nChairman Prachanda vowed to continue the people’s war. He highlighted the attacking of PLA to the army barracks. Describing that the attack as a successful operation, chairman Prachanda claimed that it had blown away the myths about the RNA being trained with foreign forces was invincible.\n\nAccording to UNMIN, the PLA has around 19,600 confirmed fighters residing in different cantonments over the past 3 years. The ones who were found to be unqualified during the verification process have been removed from the cantonments recently under an agreement of UNMIN (United Nations Mission in Nepal) peronnel, the Nepalese government and the party.\n\n\nThe Nepali Maoist party's ambitious plan to fuse its People’s Liberation army with the latter's arch enemy, the Nepal Army, has come unstuck yet again with the opposition party refusing to toe the former rebels' line. Prime Minister Prachanda, who till two months ago was also the supreme commander of the guerrilla People's Liberation Army, had announced that a special committee would be formed to begin the controversial reintegration process. However, the panel could not be formed as the opposition, former Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala's Nepali Congress raised the voice of dissentt the meeting of four major parties shooting down the Maoist proposal that the committee should be headed by a Maoist representative.\n\nNC leaders have also begun protests against what they say is a move by the Maoists to appoint Nanda Kishor Pun 'Pasang', the chief of PLA after Prachanda stepped down, as the chief of the re-shuffled army. Due to the infighting among the two biggest parties, Prachanda, for the second time Thursday, put off the scheduled cabinet meeting that was to have announced the formation of the committee. More homework and parleys among the parties need to be done, the embattled Maoist chief told the news media. The merger of the PLA with the Nepal Army remains one of the biggest blocks in the ongoing peace process in Nepal.\n\nOver 50,000 PLA fighters are leading a grim life in cantonments for nearly two years, hoping for eventual state recognition by being included in the state army. The merger was a key condition of the peace pact signed by the Maoists in 2006, which paved the way for their relinquishing [arms and the restoration of peace in insurgency-racked Nepal.\nThe NC, which was the ruling party in 2006, had agreed to the condition. Now however, smarting under a poll defeat, it has begun opposing the integration, saying the PLA was a political motivated that could not be trusted to be non-partisan. The army is also opposing the merger. The army chief, Gen. Rukmangud Katawal, has said that the army would accept only those who met international recruitment norms. The Nepalese army showed a disagreement to the Maoist proposal since long back, when this issue of merger was put forward. CPN(M) clearly denies a complete peace process without the integration of the two forces and creating a ‘new’ national army.\n\nThe integration process was started in November 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3432168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3432168", "title": "Production sharing agreement", "text": "Production sharing agreement\n\nProduction sharing agreements (PSAs) are a common type of contract signed between a government and a resource extraction company (or group of companies) concerning how much of the resource (usually oil) extracted from the country each will receive.\n\nProduction sharing agreements were first used in Bolivia in the early 1950s, although their first implementation similar to today's was in Indonesia in the 1960s. Today they are often used in the Middle East and Central Asia. \n\nIn production sharing agreements the country's government awards the execution of exploration and production activities to an oil company. The oil company bears the mineral and financial risk of the initiative and explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as required. When successful, the company is permitted to use the money from produced oil to recover capital and operational expenditures, known as \"cost oil\". The remaining money is known as \"profit oil\", and is split between the government and the company. In most of the production sharing agreements, changes in international oil prices or production rate affect the company's share of production.\n\nProduction sharing agreements can be beneficial to governments of countries that lack the expertise and/or capital to develop their resources and wish to attract foreign companies to do so. They can be very profitable agreements for the oil companies involved, but often involve considerable risk.\n\nThe amount of costs recoverable is often limited to an amount called \"cost stop\". If the costs incurred by the company are bigger than the cost stop, the company is entitled to recover only the costs limited to the cost stop. When the costs incurred are smaller than the cost stop, the difference between the costs and the cost stop is called \"excess oil\". Usually, but not necessarily, the excess oil is shared between the government and the company according to the same rules of the profit oil. If the recoverable costs are higher than the cost stop the contract is defined as \"saturated\".\n\nThe cost stop gives to the government the guarantee the recover part of the production (as long the price of the crude produced is higher than the cost stop), especially during the first years of production when the costs are higher. Since the beginning of the 80's all major contracts include invariable a clause of cost stop. The cost stop can be a fixed amount, but in most case it is a percentage of the cost of the crude.\n\nFirst implemented in Malaysia, the risk sharing contracts (RSC) departs from the production sharing contract (PSC) first introduced in 1976 and most recently revised last year as the enhanced oil recovery (EOR) PSC which ramps up recovery rate from 26% to 40%. As a performance-based agreement, it is developed in Malaysia for the Malaysian people and private partners to both benefit from successfully and viably monetizing these marginal fields. At the Center for Energy Sustainability and Economics' Production Optimisation Week Asia Forum in Malaysia on 27 July 2011, Finance Deputy Minister YB. Sen. Dato' Ir. Donald Lim Siang Chai expounded that the trail-blazing RSC calls for optimal delivery of production targets and allows for knowledge transfer from joint ventures between foreign and local players in the development of Malaysia’s 106 marginal fields, which cumulatively contain 580 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) in today’s high-demand, low-resource energy market.\n\nPerformance-based agreements like the Berantai RSC have a tighter focus on production and recovery rates as compared with production sharing contracts favoured by oil majors. This emphasis on optimising production capacities in marginal fields can be extended to contracts governing recovery of main oilfields in an industry of rapidly depleting resources. Currently, Petronas’ recovery factor is about 26% for main oilfields, which can be further improved with optimised production techniques and knowledge exchange. \n\n\nAccording to think tank, Arc Media Global, while efficient, the RSC is essentially a contract that significantly increases an operator’s risks of exposure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519222", "title": "Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, 1949", "text": "Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, 1949\n\nThe Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, Act No 55 of 1949, was an apartheid law in South Africa that prohibited marriages between \"Europeans\" and \"non-Europeans\". It was among the first pieces of apartheid legislation to be passed following the National Party's rise to power in 1948. Subsequent legislation, especially the Population Registration and Immorality Acts of 1950, facilitated its implementation by requiring all individuals living in South Africa to register as a member of one of four officially defined racial groups and prohibiting extramarital sexual relationships between people of different races.Edit\n\nMixed race relationships occurred in South Africa as far back as 1652, and often took place between Dutch colonizers and indigenous South African women. Mixed marriages did not become completely taboo until the rise of the National Party in 1948.  However, in the years immediately preceding the passing of this Act, mixed marriages accounted for just a small fraction of all marriages in South Africa, and occurred almost evenly between the four defined racial groups (Black, Coloured, White, and Asiatic).\n\nEnforcement of the act was left to the police, who often followed people to their homes to ensure they were not in violation and raided the homes of those believed to be in a mixed marriage. The act applied to all mixed marriages between South Africans, so even marriages which took place in another country were not recognized within South Africa. The punishment for people found to be in a mixed marriage involved arrest and a jail sentence. Anyone who knowingly officiated a marriage that violated the act was also subject to a punishment: a fine was imposed not exceeding 50 pounds. Anyone who was found to have lied to an officiant was also subject to the legal punishment for perjury. \n\nSome of the social consequences of entering into a mixed-race marriage included being ostracized from or ridiculed by one's family and community. One example is a white South African sex worker named Ethal, who indicated that she felt more accepted by her peers when she was a sex worker than when she married an black African man.\n\nThe Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Amendment Act of 1968 updated the original legislation to invalidate interracial marriages involving a South African citizen that were contracted in other countries.\n\nThe Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act was repealed by the Immorality and Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Amendment Act, 1985, which was passed during the presidency of P. W. Botha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41589", "title": "Protective distribution system", "text": "Protective distribution system\n\nA protective distribution system (PDS), also called \"protected distribution system\", is a US government term for wireline or fiber-optics telecommunication system that includes terminals and adequate acoustical, electrical, electromagnetic, and physical safeguards to permit its use for the unencrypted transmission of classified information. At one time these systems were called \"approved circuits\".\n\nA complete protected distribution system includes the subscriber and terminal equipment and the interconnecting lines.\n\nThe purpose of a PDS is to deter, detect and/or make difficult physical access to the communication lines carrying national security information.\nA specification called the National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction (NSTISSI) 7003 was issued in December 1996 by the Committee on National Security Systems.\nApproval authority, standards, and guidance for the design, installation, and maintenance for PDS are provided by NSTISSI 7003 to U.S. government departments and agencies and their contractors and vendors. This instruction describes the requirements for all PDS installations within the U.S. and for low and medium threat locations outside the U.S.\nPDS is commonly used to protect SIPRNet and JWICS networks.\nThe document superseded one numbered NASCI 4009 on Protected Distribution Systems, dated December 30, 1981, and part of a document called NACSEM 5203, that covered guidelines for facility design, using the designations \"red\" and \"black\".\n\nThere are two types of PDS: hardened distribution systems and simple distribution systems. \n\nHardened distribution PDSs provide significant physical protection and can be implemented in three forms: hardened carrier PDSs, alarmed carrier PDSs and continuously viewed carrier PDSs.\n\nIn a hardened carrier PDS, the data cables are installed in a carrier constructed of electrical metallic tubing (EMT), ferrous conduit or pipe, or rigid sheet steel ducting. All of the connections in a Hardened Carrier System are permanently sealed completely around all surfaces with welds, epoxy or other such sealants. If the hardened carrier is buried under ground, to secure cables running between buildings for example, the carrier containing the cables is encased in concrete.\n\nWith a hardened carrier system, detection is accomplished via human inspections that are required to be performed periodically. Therefore, hardened carriers are installed below ceilings or above flooring so they can be visually inspected to ensure that no intrusions have occurred. These periodic visual inspections (PVIs) occur at a frequency dependent upon the level of threat to the environment, the security classification of the data, and the access control to the area.\n\nAs an alternative to conducting human visual inspections, an alarmed carrier PDS may be constructed to automate the inspection process through electronic monitoring with an alarm system. In an Alarmed Carrier PDS, the carrier system is “alarmed” with specialized optical fibers deployed within the conduit for the purpose of sensing acoustic vibrations that usually occur when an intrusion is being attempted on the conduit in order to gain access to the cables.\n\nAlarmed carrier PDS offers several advantages over hardened carrier PDS:\n\n\nLegacy alarmed carrier systems monitor the carrier containing the cables being protected. More advanced systems monitor the fibers within, or intrinsic to, the cables being protected to turn those cables into sensors, which detect intrusion attempts.\n\nDepending on the government organization, utilizing an alarmed carrier PDS in conjunction with interlocking armored cable may, in some cases, allow for the elimination of the carrier systems altogether. In these instances, the cables being protected can be installed in existing conveyance (wire basket, ladder rack) or suspended cabling (on D-rings, J-Hooks, etc.).\n\nA Continuously Viewed Carrier PDS is one that is under continuous observation, 24 hours per day (including when operational). Such circuits may be grouped together, but should be separated from all non-continuously viewed circuits ensuring an open field of view. Standing orders should include the requirement to investigate any attempt to disturb the PDS. Appropriate security personnel should investigate the area of attempted penetration within 15 minutes of discovery. This type of hardened carrier is not used for Top Secret or special category information for non-U.S. UAA.\nUAA is an Uncontrolled Access Area (UAA). Like definitions include Controlled Access Area (CAA) and Restricted Access Area (RAA). A Secure Room (SR) offers the highest degree of protection.\n\nTherefore from the least protected (least secure) to the most protected is as follows:\n\nUAA\nRAA\nCAA\nSR\n\nSimple distribution PDSs are afforded a reduced level of physical security protection as compared to a hardened distribution PDS. They use a simple carrier system and the following means are acceptable under NSTISSI 7003: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1381812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381812", "title": "Reflation", "text": "Reflation\n\nReflation is the act of stimulating the economy by increasing the money supply or by reducing taxes, seeking to bring the economy (specifically price level) back \"up\" to the long-term trend, following a dip in the business cycle. It is the opposite of disinflation, which seeks to return the economy back \"down\" to the long-term trend.\n\nReflation, which can be considered a form of inflation (increase in the price level), is contrasted with inflation (narrowly speaking) in that \"bad\" inflation is inflation \"above\" the long-term trend line, while reflation is a recovery of the price level when it has fallen \"below\" the trend line. For example, if inflation had been running at a 3% rate, but for one year it falls to 0%, the following year would need 6% inflation (actually 6.09% due to compounding) to catch back up to the long-term trend. This higher than normal inflation is considered reflation, since it is a return to trend, not exceeding the long-term trend.\n\nThis distinction is predicated on a theory of economic growth where there is long-term growth in the economy and price level, which is widely accepted in economics. Just as disinflation is considered an acceptable antidote to high inflation, reflation is considered to be an antidote to deflation (which, unlike inflation, is considered bad regardless of its magnitude).\n\nIt can refer to an economic policy whereby a government uses fiscal or monetary stimulus in order to expand a country's output. This can possibly be achieved by methods that include reducing tax, changing the money supply, or even adjusting interest rates.\n\nOriginally it was used to describe a recovery of price to a previous desirable level after a fall caused by a recession. Today it also (in addition to the above) describes the first phase in the recovery of an economy which is beginning to experience increasing prices at the end of a slump. With rising prices, employment, output and income also increase till the economy reaches the level of full employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "12497471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12497471", "title": "Regency Act 1830", "text": "Regency Act 1830\n\nThe Regency Act 1830 (1 Will.4 c.2) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed to cater for the event that King William IV died while the next person in line to the throne was not yet aged 18. It provided for a regency until the new monarch reached the age of 18, and also would have enabled a posthumous child of King William IV to replace Queen Victoria on the throne. However, the Act never came into force, because William was not survived by a legitimate child and Victoria became queen at the age of 18 in 1837.\n\nWhen William IV became king in June 1830 he had no legitimate children who could inherit the throne on his death. Aged 64, he was the oldest person to ascend the British, English, Scottish or Irish thrones. His next younger brother, Prince Edward, had died in 1820 and so the next person in line to the throne was Edward's 11-year-old daughter, Princess Victoria. Therefore, it was necessary to pass a law to provide for the government of the United Kingdom in case Victoria became queen while still under age, or in case William had a child who ascended while under 18. Parliament also decided to change the law about what would happen if William's wife, Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen, gave birth to his child after he died and Victoria had already become queen.\n\nThe Act stated that if Victoria became queen while still a minor, then her mother, the Duchess of Kent, would become regent until Victoria was 18. However, if William had a legitimate son or daughter then that person would become king or queen instead of Victoria, and its mother, Queen Adelaide, would be regent. In either case, whoever was regent would exercise all the powers of the monarchy, except that the regent was prohibited from giving royal assent to a bill to change the line of succession to the throne, or a bill to repeal or alter the Act of Uniformity 1662 or the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707.\n\nIf William was not survived by a legitimate child when he died, and Victoria became queen, but then afterwards Adelaide gave birth to William's child, the Act stipulated that William's child was to immediately and automatically become monarch, replacing Victoria. If this happened then Adelaide would become regent until the new monarch was 18.\n\nWhoever was monarch was prohibited from marrying without the regent's permission until they were 18. Anyone who married the monarch without permission, or who assisted in the marriage, would be guilty of high treason.\n\nIf the regent married a Roman Catholic, married a foreigner without permission, or left the United Kingdom, then she would forfeit her office.\n\nThe Act consisted of 12 sections:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39109063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39109063", "title": "Royal Border Guard (Albania)", "text": "Royal Border Guard (Albania)\n\nThe Royal Border Guard () was a border protection force of the Royal Albanian Army responsible for protecting Albania's territorial borders from smuggling activities and foreign interference.\n\nShortly after the establishment of Albania's borders was officially recognised at the Ambassadors Conference in Paris on 30 July 1926, the need for a border protection force suddenly emerged. The Royal Border Guard was created on 25 February 1929. It was a military-financial organization which was tasked with stopping, suppressing and preventing smuggling and criminal activity along the country's newly formed borders. Its operations continued until 7 April 1939, the day Albania was invaded by Fascist Italian Forces.\n\nThe force consisted of five battalions (commanders listed as of April 7, 1939):\n\nThe Border Guard had a statutory strength of 91 officers, 222 NCOs and around 1,500 men, in 14 companies of 48 platoons subdivided into 119 squads, and probably had more or less that strength on the eve of the invasion. The Guard was more of a fiscal or customs police than a military arm, and was incorporated into the Italian \"Guardia di Finanza\" after the invasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "16371531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16371531", "title": "Slovene Union", "text": "Slovene Union\n\nThe Slovene Union (, , SSk) is a centrist political party in Italy representing the Slovene minority in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region. Its Slovenian language name means literally \"Slovene Community\", but the denomination \"Slovene Union\" is used in other languages.\n\nThe party was founded in the 1960s to represent the anti-communist Slovenes in the Italian Julian March (provinces of Trieste and Gorizia). It the 1970s and 1980s, it extended its presence also to Venetian Slovenia and Canale Valley in the Province of Udine. It has been considered to be close to the Catholic Church and has drawn its support from various Slovene Catholic institutions in Italy, such as the Hermagoras Society and the Council of Slovene Organizations.\n\nSince 2007, the SSk is affiliated to the Democratic Party (PD). The relation between the two parties is regulated by an \"agreement of federation\", which guarantees the full autonomy of the SSk.\n\nThe SSk was founded in 1962 with the merger of several Slovene anti-communist political organizations that had functioned since 1945 in the Italian part of the Julian March (Venezia Giulia), that is in the provinces Gorizia and Trieste (until 1954 Zone A of the Free Territory of Trieste). These organizations included the Slovene Christian Social Union (\"Slovenska krščansko socialna zveza\", SKSZ), led by Engelbert Besednjak and Avgust Sfiligoj; the liberal Slovene Democratic Union (\"Slovenska demokratska zveza\", SDZ), led by Josip Agneletto and Andrej Uršič; and the social-democratic Group of Independent Slovenes (\"Skupina neodvisnih Slovencev\", SNS), led by Josip Ferfolja, Frane Tončič and Dušan Rybář. All these groups shared an anti-fascist ideology, they were opposed to Italian nationalism and centralism, as well as to the Communist regime of the nearby Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Coming from different ideological background, but sharing similar programs, these groups soon established a close collaboration, creating many joint lists in municipal and provincial elections. Between 1947 and 1954, a unitary action was hindered by the fact that the Slovene minority was split into two separate political realities, one in the Republic of Italy and the other in the Free Territory of Trieste.\n\nThe SSk has taken part in nearly all general, regional and municipal elections in Friuli-Venezia Giulia since the 1963 general election. Beginning from the late 1960s, it frequently formed alliances with Christian Democracy. Since its foundation, the SSk has maintained close relations with the South Tyrolean People's Party and the Valdostan Union. In the 1992 general election the SSk formed a joint list with the Valdostan Union, the Union for South Tyrol, the Sardinian Action Party, and some smaller regional parties; this effort produced a seat in the Chamber of Deputies and one in the Senate of the Republic, but none of them was for the SSk.\n\nSince the beginning of the so-called Italian Second Republic, the SSk has been in alliance with centre-left coalitions, such as The Olive Tree, and had been an associate party of the Italian People's Party, Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy, and finally the Democratic Party.\n\nThe party has been represented in the Regional Council from 1975 through 1993, and then again since 2003. In the 2013 regional election the SSk won 1.4% of the vote (4.7% in the Province of Trieste and 2.8% in the Province of Gorizia), resulting in the re-election of its regional councillor.\n\nThe party is particularly strong in rural areas on the border with Slovenia in the Provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. In the 2013 regional election it was the most voted party in the municipalities of Monrupino (55.9%), San Floriano del Collio (53.1%) and Savogna d'Isonzo (42.0%), and had a good showing also in San Dorligo della Valle (22.5%), Sgonico (22.2%), Doberdò del Lago (19.8%) and Duino-Aurisina (17.1%). Since the 2000s, the party has gathered some support also in the Province of Udine, especially in the so-called Venetian Slovenia: in 2013 it garnered 19.4% of the vote in Drenchia, 10.8% in Malborghetto Valbruna, and 7.5% in Resia. In big cities, the party reached 5.3% in Gorizia and 3.2% in Trieste. In the municipal and provincial elections of 2011, the candidates of the Slovene Union ran on the list of the Democratic Party, except for the Provincial Council of Trieste, where they ran separately and gained 3.4% of the vote.\n\nThe party has an official newspaper, called \"Skupnost\" (\"Community\"). The weekly journal \"Novi glas\" (\"The New Voice\"), published in Gorizia by the Hermagoras Society is also generally supportive of the party's program, policies and ideology, although it is sometimes critical towards its actions.\n\nSeveral public figures of the Slovene minority in Italy have been public supporters of the Slovene Union, including the authors Boris Pahor and Alojz Rebula, historian Jože Pirjevec, journalist, editor and historian Ivo Jevnikar and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3608055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608055", "title": "Sociology of gender", "text": "Sociology of gender\n\nSociology of gender is a prominent subfield of sociology. Social interaction directly correlated with sociology regarding social structure. One of the most important social structures is status. This is determined based on position that an individual possesses which effects how he/she will be treated by society. One of the most important statuses an individual claims is gender. Public discourse and the academic literature generally use the term \"gender\" for the perceived or projected (self-identified) masculinity or femininity of a person.\n\nThe term \"gender role\" was coined by John Money in a seminal 1955 paper where he defined it as \"all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman.\"\n\nA person's gender is complex, encompassing countless characteristics of appearance, speech, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Societies tend to have gender systems in which everyone is categorized as male or female. Some societies include a third gender role; for instance, the Native American Two-Spirit people and the Hijras of India. There is debate over the extent to which gender is a social construct or a biological construct .\n\nDuring the 1970s, there was no consensus about how the terms were to be applied. In the 1974 edition of \"Masculine/Feminine or Human\", the author uses \"innate gender\" and \"learned sex roles\", but in the 1978 edition, the use of \"sex\" and \"gender\" is reversed. By 1980, most feminist writings had agreed on using \"gender\" only for socioculturally adapted traits.\n\nLiberal feminism is the belief that individuals should be free to develop their own talents and pursue their interests. Individuals seek to expand equality by removing the barriers in society. Socialist feminism thinks that capitalism strengthens patriarchy by concentrating wealth and power in the hands of a few. The traditional family structure should be replaced by a collective revolution. In Radical feminism, they believe that patriarchy is so deeply rooted in society that even a sociological revolution would not end it; Society must eliminate gender itself.\n\nIn English, both \"sex\" and \"gender\" are used in contexts where they could not be substituted (sexual intercourse; anal sex; safe sex; sex worker; sex slave). Other languages, like German, use the same word \"Geschlecht\" to refer both to grammatical gender and to biological sex, making the distinction between \"sex\" and \"gender\" advocated by some anthropologists difficult. In some contexts, German has adopted the English loan-word \"gender\" to achieve this distinction. Sometimes 'Geschlechtsidentität' is used as gender (although it literally means \"gender identity\") and 'Geschlecht' as sex (translation of Judith Butler's \"Gender Trouble\"). More common is the use of modifiers: \"biologisches Geschlecht\" for \"sex\", \"Geschlechtsidentität\" for \"gender identity\" and \"Geschlechterrolle\" for \"gender role\" etc.\n\nMedia criticism is a reflection of the gender inequality in society through print, advertisements, television and music. Media influences and reinforces the idea of The Beauty Myth as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book, The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, which refers to unrealistic standards of beauty for women. Some argue that the mainstream media perpetuates the idea of hetero-masculinity by portraying men as dominant. Some also argue that the media objectifies and oppresses women, and men who don't fall into the heteronormative category.\n\nThrough the media, men are taught to be ultra-masculine by being desensitized, violent, and physically strong. Other forms of media that often portray the ultra-masculine figure are advertisements, specifically beer commercials. These forms encourage men to oppress other men if they do not fit the ideals of heteromasculinity.\n\nObjectification of women refers to instances in the media in which women may be viewed as, or directly compared to, insentient objects that can be acquired and/or possessed. This can be examined in the context of advertisements, where objects may be anthropomorphized and given feminine qualities or aspects of the female form. Some studies indicate that widespread objectification of women in the media may have significant repercussions on society, such as low self-esteem and/or eating disorders among women.\n\nSocialization theory offers a straightforward account of the acquisition of gendered identities. Infants are seen as blank slates, waiting to be written down on by their environment. Through their interactions with people close to them and exposure to the values of their society, infants learn what sex is attributed to them and what roles they are expected to learn. Reinforcement (through rewarding gender-appropriate behavior and punishing what may seem as deviant behavior) socializes children into their genders. Parents, for example, are far more likely to engage with their sons in rough physical play than they are with their daughters, and it has been argued that long-term consequences may follow (in this case, a head start for boys in the development of physical violence and aggressiveness.)\n\nParents and family can influence the way that a child develops their view of gender. These types of influences can include parental attitudes and difference of treatment regarding male and female children. Researcher Susan Witt claims that parents also expose children to gender from the time they are born via specific toys, colors, and names associated with genders in the binary. Witt suggests that parental attitudes about gender can differ from male to female children and that these attitudes develop quickly after a child's birth.\n\nAuthor Susan Grieshaber, in \"Constructing the Gendered Infant\", suggests that attitudes regarding pregnancy change after parents find out the sex of their child, subsequently changing parental attitudes towards the unborn child. According to Grieshaber's theory, once parents determine the sex of their unborn child, they assume a gender while planning for the child's arrival. Because of this, Grieshaber claims that infants are born into a gendered world where they never know anything other than the gender traits that are assumed due to their sex. Dr. Kara Smith utilizes similar theory throughout the analysis of her pregnancy journals kept throughout her second pregnancy. Smith concluded that her attitude towards her child changed after learning that her child’s sex was male. Smith's claim is reflected in changes in tone of voice when talking to the unborn child as well as differences in physical touch of her stomach throughout the rest of her pregnancy. Another theory of gender socialization, discussed by Susan McHale, is that the gender roles and attitudes of older siblings can impact the gender roles adopted by younger children. Throughout the findings of McHale's study, it is maintained that parents still have the most familial influence on childhood socialization.\n\nBy the time children reach the age of three, many will have acquired a firm sense of themselves as male or female, a gender identity that remains throughout life. In addition, many pre-schoolers develop a firm awareness of gender stereotypes, insisting that certain activities or items of clothing are not for girls and others not for boys. Yet gender identity does not automatically follow from biological sex.\n\nAdults respond differently to communicative efforts of boys and girls. A study of infants aged 13 months found that when boys demand attention - by behaving aggressively, or crying, whining or screaming - they tended to get it. By contrast, adults tended to respond to girls only when they used language, gestures, or gentle touches; girls who used attention-seeking techniques were likely ignored. There was little difference in the communicative patterns at the start of the study, but by the age of two, the girls have become more talkative and boys more assertive in their communicative techniques.\n\nThe norms that are taught throughout childhood are influential in an individual's life because the ideas about gender that are typically taught by parents in early years are reinforced outside of the home. A study done by Dr. Mick Cunningham states that the normative behaviors and attitudes that children observe can influence the way that these children grow up to structure their own households in adulthood. Normative gender roles can be reinforced outside of the household, adding power to these hegemonic ideas about gender. An analysis of children’s books in the twenty-first century, by Janice McCabe, suggests that this particular avenue of children’s media symbolically annihilates females, representing them about half as often as that of males. Underrepresentation such as this can affect children and their views of gender. Children’s TV networks, such as Disney, Nickelodeon, and Cartoon Network have demonstrated a disproportional representation of males and females on their respective shows in a study done by Beth Hentges and Kim Case. According to Hentges and Case, there are less female characters across all three children’s networks; however, there is more propagation of stereotypical gendered behavior on Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon than that of Disney.\n\nSome children are raised in atypical households that challenge normative gender roles. In Jada Tidwell's study, she observes the play of children who come from households with lesbian feminist mothers (both single mothers and couples). Tidwell's observations consisted of both individual play as well as play integrated with the mothers. As a result of these observations, Tidwell asserts that atypical environments can affect children’s lives and ideas. According to Tidwell, households that challenge hegemonic cultural ideas ultimately give children a different perspective of gender than those of children raised in heterosexual, two parent households. In the families studied by Jada Tidwell, children reported ideas that both endorsed and challenged stereotypical gender roles at times. In a different study, Abbie Goldberg observed toddlers from various types of households and how these children engaged in play. Goldberg's findings suggest that children whose parents are of the same gender tend to play in ways that are less adherent to stereotypical gender roles than children from heterosexual households. Susan Witt, in her article “Parental Influence on Children’s Socialization to Gender Roles’, advocates for androgynous gender roles in parenting, arguing that environments are more open minded about gender and encouraging to both their sons and daughters.\n\nOne of the most influential of the psychoanalytic theories of gender identity is the perspective developed in the book The Reproduction of Mothering. Its author, Nancy Chodorow, traces the implications for emotional development by linking them with the way mothers usually care for their infants in their formative years, while fathers are more emotionally distant. The development of an identity takes place as the infant gets more and more separated from his/her mother, with whom the infant is initially psychically merged. This process however operates differently for boys and girls. Girls can separate gradually, maintain a continuous sense of relationship with the mother, who is after all experienced as alike. For boys, on the other hand, separating from the mother, who is experienced as different, involves repressing the feminine aspects of themselves and rejecting their tenderness that was central to that early relationship. Boys' sense of maleness, according to Chodorow, is achieved at a great emotional cost.\n\nConsequently, men grow up to have a more autonomous sense of self, and to be more independent, more instrumental and competitive in their dealings with others. They are also more likely to have difficulty expressing their emotions and to be anxious about intimacy. Women, on the other hand, have more ability and more need to sustain relationship with others.; they have greater empathy with others. They have difficulty however in maintaining the boundaries of an independent and autonomous self.\n\nChodorow however believes that these patterns aren't inevitable. Changes in the social arrangements for care of children such as dual parenting, which would involve fathers in emotional intimacy with their children, can break the cycle.\n\nBefore industrialization, economic activity, which centered around agricultural work, crafts and so on, was organized by households. Household members, whether male or female, young or old, contributed to the family's livelihood. Although women might do some types of work and men others, depending on region and class, the distinction between men as breadwinners and women as housewives didn't characterize pre-industrial divisions of labor.\n\nIndustrialization shifted much productive activity to factories, shops and offices. This separation of work from home signaled a profound change in gender relations and gender discourse. The home came to be understood not as the site of a family enterprise, but as a refuge from the world of work. Women were defined as the keepers of the home, as it was seen as their nature to create harmony and virtue rather than services and goods. Preindustrial society relied on gendered roles in the workforce to create equilibrium between men and women. Men were assigned the hunter role while women were assigned the domestic roles. Men were expected to supply food and shelter for the family while women were the caretakers for the children and their household. As centuries passed, this continued and created a divide in gendered roles in labor. Women remained dependent on men to provide, this dependence led to male roles being more valued in society which still remains in the 21st century.\n\nSome research has found that, in classroom settings, male students tend to talk more, and longer, than female students. This was determined to be particularly noticeable when the instructor is male.\n\nSimilar results were found previously in hospitals by Erving Goffman in 1961, university discussion groups by Elizabeth Aries in 1972, and in corporate settings by Rosabeth Kanter in 1977.\n\nWomen and men experience different types of mobility within the workplace. Women tend to experience a glass ceiling, an invisible barrier that prevents them from moving up the corporate ladder. Men in jobs traditionally held by women, such as nursing, elementary school teaching, and social work, experience a \"glass escalator\" effect in which they are able to quickly ascend the job hierarchy to become managers and principals. There also tends to be a gender pay gap between men and women, with women earning 77% as much as men.\nOne cause of the gender pay gap may be due to occupational segregation, which pushes men and women towards gender-specific forms of employment, rather than pay discrimination. Another cause is the double burden, a phenomenon in which women perform most of the unpaid childcare and household work despite being otherwise employed for pay. A third cause is occupational sexism, one part of which favors men for promotions due to their traditional breadwinner status. The 2001 class action lawsuit, Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., charged Wal-Mart with sexist hiring and promotion practices.\n\nIn addition, the emergence of transgender individuals in the workplace has begun to disrupt the gender binary of male and female. By creating a hybrid gender identity, the transgender community suggests notions of movement toward postgenderism.\n\nIntersectionality is a Neo-Marxist concept stemming from a critical theory social analysis of class, race, and gender. The theory of intersectionality argues that forms of \"inequality, oppression, and privilege\" are shaped by interconnected axes of identity, and are mutually reinforced by social interactions and by social, political, and economic structures, such as capitalism, patriarchy, and institutionalized heteronormativity. The theory of Intersectionality argues that race, class, gender, and other markers of identity are social constructions. This theory argues against the assumption that systems of power relations are normative and can hold individuals accountable for their own character and efforts.\n\nWest & Fenstermaker in their 1995 article \"Doing Difference\" offer that models that conceive gender, race and class as distinct axes are highly limiting in their understanding of the whole experience or identity of an individual. For example, they critique the additive model, in which the whole will never be greater (or lesser) than the sum of it parts. By analyzing each identity marker as an individual characteristic, we ignore the effect of the interconnection of these markers.\n\nAdditional sociologists have written about the intersectionality of class, race, and gender. Joan Acker outlines four gendered processes of intersectionality. The first includes procedures that create hierarchies based on gender and race. Another is the process in which social images and ideas condone gendered institutions. The third is a process of interaction between individuals and groups that, through communication, creates gender. The fourth is the internal labeling of the self and others to gendered personas. Evelyn Nakano Glenn critiques both the patriarchy model of gender, which ignores racial differences among oppressed women, and the internal colonialism model, which focuses on minority populations in general, ignoring gender differences.\n\nEmbodiment may be defined as the ways in which cultural ideals of gender in a given society create expectations for and influence the form of our bodies. There is a bidirectional relationship between biology and culture; by embodying societally determined gender roles we reinforce cultural ideals and simultaneously shape, both temporarily and permanently, our bodies, which then perpetuates the cultural ideal. While there is actually more variation in body type within the male and female sexes than there is between the two sexes, embodiment exaggerates the perceived bodily differences between gender categories.\n\nSocial embodiment, for both men and women, is variable across cultures and over time. Examples of women embodying gender norms across cultures include foot binding practices in Chinese culture, neck rings in African and Asian cultures, and corsets in Western cultures. Another interesting phenomenon has been the practice of wearing high heels, which shifted from a masculine fashion to a feminine fashion over time. In the United States, the ideal body image and dimensions have changed for both women and men, with the body ideal female body shape becoming progressively slimmer and the body ideal for men becoming progressively larger.\n\nThese differences are epitomized in the example of children's toys; G.I. Joe dolls depict the physical ideals for boys and Barbie dolls embody the ideals for girls. The Beauty Myth, as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, refers to the unattainable standard of beauty for women, which sustains consumer culture. In contrast, men's bodies are also \"dictated\" by cultural ideals of gender, as is evident in consumer culture—especially beer commercials—in which men are portrayed as outdoorsy, tough, strong, and \"manly.\"\n\nSexuality encompasses both sexual behavior and sexual desire. However, Heteronormativity structures social life so that Heterosexuality is always assumed, expected, ordinary and privileged. Its pervasiveness makes it difficult for people to imagine other ways of life. Mass media works to glorify heterosexuality, which in turn lends to its pervasiveness and to its power. Both ordinary and exceptional constructions of heterosexuality work to normalize heterosexuality; thus, it becomes difficult to imagine anything other than this form of social relationship or anyone outside of these bonds.\n\nThere is a common perception of heterosexuality as the \"natural\" emotional and sensual inclination for Human sexuality. Furthermore, marital heterosexuality occupies the largely invisible core of normative and desirable sexuality, while all other sexualities are marginalized and considered perverse and unnatural. Alfred Kinsey created a Heterosexual-Homosexual Rating Scale called the Kinsey Scale, which challenges the common perception of Human sexuality as strictly binary and directly linked to Gender. Drag queens are an example of \"troubling\" gender, complicating the understanding of sexuality in our society by causing people to think outside the binary of male/female.\n\nFriedrich Engels argued that in hunter-gatherer societies the activities of men and women, although different, had the same importance. As technological advances let to productive surplus, social equality and communal sharing gave way to private property and ultimately class hierarchy. With the rise of agriculture, men gained significant power over women. With surplus wealth to pass on to their heirs, upper class men wanted to ensure their sons were indeed theirs, which led them to control the sexuality of women. The desire to control property brought about monogamous marriage and family. Women were taught to remain virgins until marriage and remain faithful to their husbands thereafter, and to build their lives around bearing and raising one man's children.\n\nMasculinity is a performed gender identity. Contrary to popular perception, it is not the same as sex or sexual orientation. The contents and practices of masculinity are socially constructed and reproduced through daily interaction, especially on a more micro scale. Theorists West & Zimmerman emphasized that gender is maintained through accountability. Men are expected to perform masculinity to the point that it is naturalized. Thus, a man's status depends on his performance. It is important to note, however, that masculinity can be performed by any sex.\n\nThe dominant form of masculinity in a society is known as hegemonic masculinity. Men are constantly performing this to prove their status as men. It is not really possible to reach it, especially as peers are in constant surveillance of each other, looking for flaws in their performance. Hegemonic masculinity is constructed in opposition to femininity and is dominant to all other gender identities (including alternative masculinities). Men are socialized from birth to perform it, especially through behavior and symbolism. One of the prominent behaviors is aggression in order to protect one's reputation. An example of symbols used would be clothing.\n\nSociologist Michael Kimmel describes three cultures that support masculinity (especially in young men) in his 2008 book, \"Guyland\":\n\nSome of the prominent attitudes and behaviors of western hegemonic masculinity are: power, sexual dominance and activity, wealth, aggression, independence, and lack of emotion. Less extreme sexual harassment is often seen as normal behavior. Exemplifying control theory, the norms of masculinity are so rigidly ingrained that men find little room to escape and end up constantly reproducing them.\n\nHegemonic masculinity is often reproduced and reinforced through media and culture. \"Media representations of men…often glorify men's use of physical force, a daring demeanor, virility, and emotional distance.\" Contemporary rap music is a striking example of masculinity on display. Rappers boast about their sexual conquests of women (emphasizing heterosexuality as well), wealth, power and violence.\n\nGender-based violence is the physical, sexual or emotional harm or suffering enacted upon an individual as contextualized by societal gender norms. Violence affects the lives of millions worldwide, in all socio-economic and educational classes. It cuts across cultural and religious barriers, impeding the right of many to participate fully in society. Violence is about power, control, and domination. Systems of inequality and oppression interact positioning certain groups as particularly vulnerable to violence. Gendered violence takes place within a socially constructed power dynamic in which one ideology (masculinity) dominates another (femininity). What it means to be a woman in society is influenced and ascribed by the media, which acts a \"powerful educational force\". The media glamorizes violence against women cultivating a \"toxic cultural environment\" in which women are institutionally positioned as inferior and worthy objects of violence.\n\nMen are disproportionally the offenders, and women disproportionally the victims. Those that commit violent crimes are overwhelmingly male—rape (98%), armed robbery (92%), drunk driving (90%), murder (88%), aggravated assault (87%), arson (86%), and family violence (83%). According to Michael Kimmel, hegemonic masculinity creates a culture of entitlement, silence, and protection, which effectively normalizes violence against women and silences victims of violence.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence defines three social arenas in which violence commonly takes place (1) in the family—including domestic violence, infanticide, and traditional practices such as female genital mutilation, foot binding, and bride burning; (2) in the community—including rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and commercialized violence such as sexual slavery, labor exploitation, female migrant workers; and (3) by the State—including violence against women in detention, and in situations of armed conflict such as systematic war rape. In order to address and end gendered violence, solutions must address both the root causes and interpersonal manifestations of gender roles and power relations in order to ensure a balance of power at all levels of society.\n\nGlobalization refers to the increasingly global relationships of culture, people and economic activity. Globalization impacts female equality on a large and international scale, both negatively and positively. With continuous changes in international relations, the perception of feminism in Western and Nonwestern societies is frequently revised. It is important to be wary of Western bias in sociological accounts of global feminism, as Modern Western society is not always due credit for feminist reform in other cultures and countries.\n\nFeminist sentiments – or a push for gender equality – emerge as a result of the nation-specific circumstances, not according to the exported beliefs of Western society. Advances in female equality and status are often not the result of national groups or corporations, but of individuals and small groups.\n\nOne of the results of globalization is the increased use of female factory workers in nonwestern countries. In Mexico, the female worker is ideal because she is seen as docile and inexpensive labor. Stereotypical feminine traits such as beauty, domesticity, and docility are exaggerated and exploited for the production of goods. These gender traits then frame the behavior of the women beyond the occupational realm. Despite increasing feminism, the lack of economic and social mobility prevents women in many nations from having equal status in society.\n\nOne of the solutions to erasing gender inequalities globally, is to provide resources and funds to impoverished women who will in turn use them for education as well as business ventures. The global economy could benefit drastically from incorporating educated women into the workforce.\n\nThroughout history, and around the world, the idea of a third gender has existed. In Native American culture, the two spiririt had gender roles different from men and women. The muxe of southern Mexico are males who identify as neither male or female. In Samoa the Fa'afafine are biological males who identify as females. The hijra are biological males who identify as women. They are considered outsiders in their communities and have formed their own language. In the United States, the concept of a third gender is beginning to gain traction. California now allows for drivers licenses to have the gender \"non-binary\", see genderqueer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32130474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32130474", "title": "Solitary Watch", "text": "Solitary Watch\n\nSolitary Watch is a web-based project aimed at bringing the widespread use of solitary confinement into the light of the public square. Its mission is to provide the public—as well as practicing attorneys, legal scholars, law enforcement and corrections officers, policymakers, educators, advocates, people in prison and their families—with the first centralized source of unfolding news, original reporting, firsthand accounts, and background research on solitary confinement in the United States.\n\nIn December 2009, Solitary Watch launched its website. Overseen by journalist James Ridgeway and writer/editor Jean Casella, the website features original reporting, an archive of resources and information, and the \"Voices from Solitary\" Project which collects firsthand stories from men and women who have served time in solitary confinement. Within its first nine months, the website attracted over 100,000 visitors. Articles posted on the website have been picked up by many major news outlets, including CounterPunch, and Al Jazeera. David Bruck is involved with the project.\n\nAs of 2015, Solitary Watch has collected over 100 memoirs, essays, stories, poems, and blogs written by current and former men and women held in solitary confinement.\n\n\"Hell Is a Very Small Place: Voices from Solitary Confinement\". Edited by Jean Casella, James Ridgeway and Sarah Shourd. Published by The New Press on February 2, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "18930957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18930957", "title": "Superclass (book)", "text": "Superclass (book)\n\nSuperclass: The Global Power Elite and the World They Are Making is a book about global governance by American author David Rothkopf, released in March 2008 by publisher Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The book claims that the world population of 6 billion people is subject to the immense influence of an elite (i.e. The Superclass) of six thousand individuals.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, governments of the great powers provided most of the superclass, accompanied by a few heads of international movements (i.e., the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church) and entrepreneurs (Rothschilds, Rockefellers). According to Rothkopf, in the early 21st century, economic clout — fueled by the explosive expansion of international trade, travel and communication — rules. Further, the nation-state's power has diminished shrinking politicians to minority power broker status. Leaders in international business, finance and the defense industry not only dominate the superclass, they move freely into high positions in their nations' governments and back to private life largely beyond the notice of elected legislatures (including the U.S. Congress), which remain abysmally ignorant of affairs beyond their borders. He proposes that the superclass' disproportionate influence over national policy is constructive but always self-interested, and that across the world, few object to corruption and oppressive governments provided they can do business in these countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34709200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34709200", "title": "The Green Deal", "text": "The Green Deal\n\nThe Green Deal was a UK government policy initiative that gives homeowners, landlords and tenants the opportunity to pay for energy efficient home improvements through the savings on their energy bills. At the heart of the Green Deal is the rule that savings on bills will exceed the cost of the work. By meeting this 'Golden Rule', consumers will be able to receive energy savings for free. Consumers will then pay back the cost of such improvements through the expected savings in their energy bills. There were 45 different types of improvements available under the Green Deal, ranging from loft and cavity wall insulation, innovative hot water systems and condensing boilers to more costly measures such as solar thermal energy or solid wall insulation.\n\nThis was a unique financial structure with no debtor, instead the burden stayed with the property no matter the tenant. This means new tenants or owners become liable for the payments for the energy efficiency improvements, requiring new legislation in English law. Government estimates say that a typical three bedroom semi-detached house could save £270 a year from solid wall insulation. \n\nIt was hoped the Green Deal would lead to the renovation of the UK's housing stock with an estimated 14 million homes seeing energy efficiency improvements ranging from; double glazing, cavity wall and loft insulation through to gas and oil boilers, and renewable technologies such as solar PV, solar thermal and heat pumps.\n\nIt was given a 'soft' launch by the Department of Energy and Climate Change on 1 October 2012 to permit improvements for energy saving measures for properties in Great Britain and was officially launched in January 2013. Following this, the first Green Deal Plans were available from 28 January 2013. The registers of Green Deal Installers, Green Deal Assessors, Green Deal Advisers and Green Deal Providers became active at the launch in October 2012. In its first six months 38,259 Green Deal assessments had taken place. However, only four Green Deals had been taken out due to the finance not available until Green Deal Plans formalised on 28 January 2013.\n\nGreen Deals were repaid at a rate no more than 6.92% fixed rate unsecured over the life, up to 25 years - this lower rate and duration are unprecedented in high street finance or available loans. The finance were mistakenly compared to home loans of similar duration, but had limited periods of fixed rates of 5 years or less, and secured against the house. Surveys found little awareness among the general public for the Green Deal. The mistakenly perceived high interest rates and charges of the scheme were heavily criticised.\n\nLack of demand for the Green Deal was partly due to the ECO grant programme, which gave homeowners substantial grants in competition to the Grean Deal. This left the energy efficiency industry struggling, the lack of demand has led one company, Domestic & General Insulation, to completely withdraw from the market and will likely lay off 600 staff.\n\nIn 2014 a second Green Deal was launched, as grants rather than the loans which had underpinned the original scheme On 1 May, the Government announced the new Green Deal Home Improvement Fund (GDHIF), a new energy efficiency incentive available to households in England and Wales for taking measures to improve the energy efficiency in their homes. The households will be eligible to claim up to £7,600 for improving their homes. The Incentive went live on 9 June 2014.\n\nWhile the Department of Energy and Climate Change reached its target for the schemes to improve 1 million homes by March 2015, it also made the decision in July 2015 following the election of Conservative Government The Energy Secretary Amber Rudd announced the Green Deal would be scrapped . There was no opposition to the scheme being scrapped but there was concern that there was no replacement scheme. In total 15,000 Green Deals had been issued. Former Climate Change Minister Greg Barker stated he was confident that the private sector would pick up the slack from the withdrawal of Government funding\n\nHomeowner would make energy-saving improvements to your home or business without having to pay all the costs up front through the Green Deal. \n\nFirst, an assessment by a government registered assessor of the property to see what improvements can be made and how much it could save on energy bills.\n\nSecondly, homeowner would choose a Green Deal provider to carry out the work. Only work that would reduce the energy bill highlighted by the assessor would qualify. \n\nThirdly, A Green Deal plan is signed. This is a contract between homeowner and the provider stating what work will be done and how much it will cost. The provider will then arrange for a Green Deal installer to do the work. The funding for these measures is then issued by The Green Deal Finance Company (GDFC)\n\nLastly, once the work was complete, the homeowner or tenant would pay off the cost in instalments through their electricity bill. \n\nGemserv has been contracted as the scheme administrators for the Green Deal Oversight and Registration Body (GD ORB), alongside its role of operating the Microgeneration Certification Scheme(MCS) and the Biomass Suppliers List (BSL). The GD ORB manages scheme administrative functions, such as maintaining the public registers of authorised participants and participant helpdesk; as well as working alongside industry and government to further develop and share best practice in operational processes, and raising awareness about consumer protection issues.\n\n\"Initial list of improvement measures available under the Green Deal;\"\n\nHeating, ventilation and air conditioning\n\n\nBuilding fabric\n\n\nLighting\n\n\nWater Heating\n\n\nFenestration\n\n\n\"A further 15 Green Deal measures have been confirmed and include;\"\n\n\nThe Green Deal was included in the Energy Act 2011 and came into force on 1 October 2012. DECC announced a list of pioneer Green Deal providers in April 2012. Twenty two providers, including three of the biggest six energy companies and B&Q, (the only high street name) have signed a declaration stating they intend to become Green Deal Providers, once DECC had appointed the Green Deal Oversight Body. Other expected providers such as Tesco, Marks and Spencer and the other three major energy companies were missing from the list. Fears of low take up of the Green Deal has led Government to budget £200 million to encourage early uptake. The policy caused a rift in the Coalition Government in April 2012. Senior Conservative ministers, including Eric Pickles ( Communities and Local Government Secretary), called for the scheme to be scrapped as it could cost the so-called \"squeezed\" middle, thousands of pounds. \n\nThe building industry has raised concern about the lack of stimulus to drive demand for the uptake of the Green Deal. Other worries include its limited projected coverage to consumer protection, its treatment of non-domestic buildings and lack of competition among suppliers. Government has confirmed the Green Deal for business has been put on hold for the foreseeable future.\n\nThere has also been doubts cast over whether the central tenet of the scheme - the so-called \"Golden Rule\" whereby the cost of repayments never outweighs the savings on the bill - will actually be successfully implemented. \n\nWhile The Green Deal is primarily concerned with buildings' energy efficiency, it is often associated with reducing carbon emissions, and mitigating climate change. However, the effects of Jevons Paradox, and cash savings being spent on other products and services with associated carbon footprint, means that The Green Deal may not reduce carbon emissions, unless there is a corresponding supply-side constraint, keeping coal, oil and gas underground.\n\nThe choice of Gemserv as the certification body has also provoked criticism as it is owned by the 6 largest energy companies in the UK and so will act as a barrier to small businesses being certified and thus benefiting from the green deal. This would undermine DECC objective of promoting green growth with the scheme.\n\nDavid Cameron has defended the Green Deal, stating that despite the lack of interest from the general public and a slow take-up, the policy was never intended to start with a big bang, but rather to build slowly. Nevertheless, the government has invested heavily in generating early uptake by consumers.\n\nThere have also been issues with conmen posing as Green Deal assessors. Trading standards officers have reported that cold callers are posing as Green Deal assessors while charging \"administration fees\"\n\nThe scheme has faced heavy criticism that it will do nothing to combat the rising levels of fuel poverty in the UK. As with the closure of the Warmfront scheme the UK no longer has any policies specifically targeted at lowering fuel poverty. The Government's impact assessment estimates that the Green Deal will lead to 125,000 to 250,000 households being lifted out of fuel poverty by 2023.\n\nThe 7% interest rate of the Green Deal Plan has been extensively criticized since it was revealed at the scheme's launch, as it is higher than available high street home-loans. Although the Green Deal Plan was a fixed rate for the life of the energy improvement (up to 25 years) and unsecured, it was compared to secured home loans of similar life but only short periods of fixed interest rate. This hysteria led to some Green Deal providers such as Npower raising concerns about the high rates, adding that, unless they were reduced, the scheme would fail. The high interest rate has raised concerns that the Green Deal will not meet its golden rule.\n\nIf you move into a property with a Green Deal, the landlord or seller must show you a copy of the Energy Performance Certificate - this will explain what improvements have been made and how much you’ll need to repay. The person who pays the electricity bill pays the money back - so if you’re a tenant in a rented property, you’ll be paying back the costs, not the landlord. This is because the tenant can expect to benefit from lower energy costs.\n\nThe Council of Mortgage Lenders have issued guidelines, but have stated \"Lenders will make their own individual commercial decisions in response to the Green Deal, and these may vary.\" \n\nBuro Happold, in a report on the Green Deal, suggested there should also be more information on its wider implications, such as how it impacts fuel poverty, property value and re-saleability. The researchers also warn that the as yet unknown impact on the resale value of homes from refurbishments and Green Deal debts attached to the property could deter uptake.\n\nResearch studies by Prof Chris Goodier of Loughborough University and Prof Li Shao of the University of Reading highlighted potential risks of overheating in dwellings via over insulting households. The Green Deal had two measures built in to ensure this would not occur, firstly, the \"Golden Rule\" and secondly, each measure must be assessed through Energy Performance Certificate.\n\nThe Green Deal Home Improvement Fund (GDHIF) is a new incentive scheme open to all householders in England and Wales wanting to improve the energy efficiency of their homes.\n\nThe scheme allows Householders to choose one or both of the two core offers available and may also be eligible to claim up to £7,600 as a bundled package. The policy closed to new applications on 24 July 2014\n\nCore Offer 1\n\nUp to £1,000 for installing two energy saving improvements from the list of 12 eligible measures below:\n\nCore Offer 2\n\nUp to 75% of the total cost of the installation of internal or external solid wall insulation, up to a maximum value of £6,000, making this high carbon saving improvement much more affordable.\n\nCore Offer 3\n\nHouseholders can also claim a refund of up to £100 for a Green Deal Assessment Report (GDAR) that is less than 24 months old when they do work in this scheme.\n\nCore Offer 4\n\nAn additional bonus of up to £500 for homebuyers who have bought a home in the last 12 months prior to application.\n\nRequirements\n\nTo be eligible for the GDHIF scheme offers householders must satisfy the following incentive criteria:\n\nThis scheme closed on 24 July, due to overwhelming demand. In October 2014 however, the Government announced an additional £100m of funding would be made available for the GDHIF phase 2 although further details are yet to be revealed.\n\nThe Green Deal Finance Company (TGDFC) was a £14 billion industry led consortium with over 50 members from across the industry, both public and private sector. The Company was incorporated in March 2012 as a not-for-profit mutual limited by guarantee. It is a national aggregator designed to make finance available to all accredited Green Deal Providers on an equal and open basis. By operating at a national level, it intends to minimise the operating and administration costs of Green Deals and will aim to access the cheapest sources of finance in the market at the highest possible credit rating. It worked closely with the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) and the Green Investment Bank, together with a number of Local Authorities, with a view to maximising its assistance to the Green Deal market .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9958448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9958448", "title": "Ticket (election)", "text": "Ticket (election)\n\nA ticket refers to a single election choice which fills more than one political office or seat. For example, in Guyana, the candidates for President and Parliament run on the same \"ticket\", because they are elected together on a single ballot question — as a vote for a given party-list in the Parliamentary election counts as a vote for the party's corresponding presidential candidate — rather than separately.\n\nA ticket can also refer to a political party. In this case, the candidates for a given party are said to be running on the party's ticket. \"Straight party voting\" (most common in some U.S. states) is voting for the entire party ticket, including every office for which the party has a candidate running. Particularly in the era of mechanical voting machines, it was possible to accomplish this in many jurisdictions by the use of a \"party lever\" which automatically cast a vote for each member of the party by the activation of a single lever. Ticket Splitters are people who vote for candidates from more than one political party when they vote for public offices, voting on the basis of individual personalities and records instead of on the basis of party loyalties.\n\nWhile a ticket usually does refer to a political party, they are not legally the same. In rare cases, members of a political party can run against their party's official candidate by running with a rival party's ticket label or creating a new ticket under an independent or \"ad hoc\" party label depending on the jurisdiction's election laws. Depending on the party's rules, these rogue members may retain the membership of their original party. Thus two individuals from one political party can oppose each other under different tickets. This was the case for Taiwanese politician James Soong, who withdrew from the Kuomingtang and ran against its official candidate, Lien Chan, for election as President in the 2000 elections; In the subsequent election in 2004, Soong ran as Lien's running mate.\n\nPolitical party factions may also sponsor tickets in primary elections. When that occurs, several candidates, usually one for each office for which the party's nomination is being contested in the primary, endorse one another and may make joint appearances and share advertising with the goal of securing the party's nomination for the office each is seeking for all ticket members. This system was frequently seen in the \"Solid South\" era in the Southern United States when there was no effective two party system and victory in the Democratic Party primary was considered to be \"tantamount to election\".\n"}
{"id": "43103609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43103609", "title": "UAE International Award for Poets of Peace", "text": "UAE International Award for Poets of Peace\n\nThe UAE International Award for Poets of Peace was launched on 1 May 2014 at the International Humanitarian City (IHC) in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is the first award of its kind, bridging a multitude of nationalities and languages in which poets will present their sonnets, spreading a message of peace around the world.\nThe global award plan at using poetry to disseminate consciousness amongst people about the importance of peace and raises further awareness for humanitarian work around the world.\nThe Award has the following objectives:\n\nThe Award has the following vision:\n\n"}
{"id": "41207361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207361", "title": "USSR anti-religious campaign (1970s–1987)", "text": "USSR anti-religious campaign (1970s–1987)\n\nA new and more aggressive phase of anti-religious persecution in the Soviet Union began in the mid-1970s after a more tolerant period following Nikita Khrushchev's downfall in 1964.\n\nYuri Andropov headed the campaign in the 1970s when it began to rise.\n\nThis new persecution was following upon the 1975 amendments to the 1929 anti-religious legislation and the 25th party congress. The CC resolution in 1979 would play a key role in this period as well. The intensification of anti-religious activities had continued since the early 1970s; between 1971-1975 over 30 doctoral and 400 magisterial dissertations were defended on the subjects of atheism and criticism of religion. In 1974 there was a conference in Leningrad dedicated to 'The Topical Problems of the History of Religion and Atheism in the Light of Marxist–Leninist Scholarship'.\n\nThis persecution, like other anti-religious campaigns in the USSR's history, was used as a tool to eliminate religion in order to create the ideal atheist society that Marxism–Leninism had as a goal.\n\nAfter Khrushchev left office, the anti-religious campaign led under him was criticized. The same anti-religious periodicals that had participated in the campaign criticized the articles of past contributors.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda in those years was criticized for failing to understand that causes of religious of belief as well as similarly failing to understand that religion did not simply survive as a legacy of the past but that it continued to attract new people to it. It was criticized for reducing religion to simply a mass of swindling of credulous fools and failing to acknowledge the notion of faith. It was criticized for misrepresenting religious societies as being composed of evil and immoral people who were working against the Soviet Union. It was also criticized for misrepresenting believers as mentally handicapped enemies who were worthy of all contempt.\n\nIt was criticized for being counter-productive, immoral (by telling lies about believers and encouraging hatred for them thereby) and for being false. The propaganda had not adequately explained why people really practiced religion nor had it given an accurate portrayal of what occurred. Many criticized it for having done more harm than good, because rather than eliminating religious belief, it instead simply pushed it underground where the state would have more difficulty trying to control it. The persecution had also attracted popular sympathy for believers, both in the USSR and abroad, as well as to increase interest in religious faith among non-believers.\n\nThere were calls that atheism should not be forced down upon people, but rather should be accepted voluntarily.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda after Khrushchev employed a more moderate tone.\n\nThe official line that believers’ feelings should not be insulted continued to be widely violated in practice. The antireligious propaganda after Khrushchev was still very much influenced by the policy set down by the 21st CPSU congress in 1959.\n\nThe Soviet press began to sound an alarm in 1972 on account of Communist party and Komsomol members who were not only participating in religious rites, but even initiating them.\n\nThe volume of anti-religious literature grew in the 1970s, partly due to a hardening general line towards religion formed as a result of more people turning to religion. The press and special conferences complained about the insufficiency of atheistic propaganda. The anti-religious education in the school system was accused of laxity.\n\nFaculties and departments were created for training atheist lecturers in the regions of Moscow, Leningrad, Lipetsk, Gorky and in the Tatar ASSR; permanent seminars existed for the same purpose in Ukraine, Moldavia and Lithuania. All of the state work, however, was found insufficient to counter the influence of religion, especially among youth, who were believed to be finding the atheistic material unconvincing and of low quality. In some areas, such as Uzbekistan, the quality of the propaganda allegedly declined. The establishment was troubled by the growing indifference and apathy among the youth for atheism as well as anti-religious propaganda.\n\nThe church was seen as an increasing threat, especially with regard to its historic claims of developing the Russian nation. At the same time, the anti-religious propaganda came to increasingly distinguish between the supposed loyal majority of believers and the enemies of the state who occupied the fringes of religion.\n\nThe atheistic journal 'Problems of Scientific Atheism' (Voprosy nauchnogo ateizma) in the late 1970s began to question the explanation that the perseverance of religious beliefs in the USSR was simply a survival of the pre-revolutionary past. This was because the vast majority of believers were born and raised after the October revolution, as well as the fact that religion had showed surprising vitality despite the decades of efforts to stamp it out. The number of believers who were well-educated Soviet citizens (rather than uneducated and backward) was also a challenge for old theories of religion being a result of intellectual ignorance. The journal criticized the old Marxist notion that religion would die away with the disappearance of a class society.\n\nIn the post-Khrushchev years, the leading anti-religious periodical ‘Science and Religion’ adopted a new approach wherein it adopted a dialogue with believers by printing portions of letters to the periodical and then responding to them. Typically the periodical preferred to print believers’ letters that contained assertions that were easier to argue against. For example, a believer might write a letter that argued God must have existed because many people believed in Him and they couldn’t all have been wrong, and the periodical would then respond by noting that there were many cases in history wherein many people believed something that was discovered to be false, such as a flat Earth or even the pagan religions that came before Christianity.\n\nAmong justifications used for not printing everything believers’ wrote included the argument that believers would not print atheist material in their publications, that by doing so it would help disseminate religious propaganda and also because believers wrote things that bordered on criticism of the state. The publications that believers were permitted to print were limited to be far smaller in circulation than the atheistic propaganda, and the material that was permitted to be printed by believers was also often dictated by the state.\n\nThe atheistic side possessed almost a monopoly on the media and it had relative impunity to tell lies, which believers were not permitted to expose.\n\nThere continued to be criticisms of the mass of anti-religious propagandists employed by the USSR for being uneducated about religion and failing to produce effective arguments that convinced believers. However, the volume and quality of more serious critical studies of theology, church history and believers greatly increased after Khrushchev, although it retained much bias. Primitive clichés, insults and name-calling that had been regurgitated over and over again for decades continued to be the main method of anti-religious propaganda. A critical problem with the more serious studies was that by doing serious critiques of religion, this could be interpreted as admitting religion's respectability, which was not a view that the Ideological Commission of the CPSU Central Committee was willing to tolerate.\n\nThere was a Marxist hypothesis that prehistoric primitive humans possessed no religion that was advocated as truth. The atheist propaganda argued that people turned to religion as a result of some tragedy in life, loneliness or lack of compassion from others.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda was fond of depicting kind, compassionate and good atheists, while contrasting them with believers who were depicted as fanatical, intolerant and heartless (e.g. for breaking up marriages when one partner was a non-believer). They were blamed for counterfeiting miracles and promoting anti-Sovietism. The teachings of Christianity were partly blamed for this by allegations that their teaching of humility deprived people of courage and freedom. In one instance, a female Christian writing to propagandist Osipov claimed that there was more intolerance and drinking than in previous years, and she blamed the state for provoking this.\n\nA growing interest among the Russian population in its national culture and history, including iconography and religious art, growing nationalism coupled with renewed interest in Orthodoxy as \"Russia's church\", as well as a number of conversions to Christianity that began with interests in these topics, prompted the Soviet media to argue that culture and religion were not linked, and that religion had bastardized Russian art and culture. The media further argued that the religious art of previous ages (including the work of Andrei Rublev or Theopanes the Greek) was simply expressing humanistic and secular concepts through the only way that such things were permitted to be depicted. ‘Science and Religion’ printed pictures of religious artwork which they interpreted according to secular values.\n\nThe atheist press also criticized museum guides in religious buildings that had been converted to museums, for giving uncritical theological dimensions to what they presented, such as explaining the theology of icons and their function in the Orthodox church, explaining the theological symbolism of the liturgy, the purpose of monastic life and for uncritically explaining the lives of the saints. The press called on them to explain ‘the class character’ of religion and give secular explanations of religious art and that they should emphasize the negative aspects of church history and not the positive. In a similar vein, the atheist press often published stories about episodes in Russian history that portrayed believers and the Church in a negative light in order to emphasize the point that Christian morals are deficient and that the Church is immoral.\n\nScientific means were used to support atheism by placing holy water under a microscope and determining it to be identical to normal water, the corpses of saints were exhumed to show that they did in fact experience deterioration, while exhibits at atheist museums showed Noah's ark to be impossible even in concept due to the fact that the number of different animal species on the earth could not fit within the dimensions in Genesis.\n\nThe press avoided attacking the Church establishment, but directed the blunt of its attacks against actively evangelizing believers and on banned religions.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda tried to depict a connection between religious dissent and foreign intelligence services as well as with anti-communist Russian émigré organizations such as NTS. Caches of religious literature confiscated by Soviet customs officials reportedly were subversive and were alleged to be widely accepted among believers. Marxist ideology held that religion was intrinsically hostile to communism, and therefore believers could not be trusted to be sensitive to the ideological threat posed from the West. They even may have felt affinities for the West, and cooperation between the Vatican or other western Christian establishments with the CIA, or the radio messages by Orthodox priests broadcast through Voice of America, also influenced the interpretation to see believers as untrustworthy. Believers were in this manner depicted as the ‘weak link’ in the Soviet defense line.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda cited cases of conflicts in schools involving religion, which were always blamed on the believers for continuing to hold on to religion (e.g. a schoolchild who committed suicide due to the labeling and contempt against him as a believer in the education system, and the press blamed this on his parents and priest for fostering religion in him, thus incurring the contempt). It also claimed that believers made poorer students and were less successful in academic pursuits than atheists.\n\nProfessors at theological schools, and all clergy as well as laity working for the Department of External Ecclesiastical Relations of the Church were taxed similarly to all Soviet employees in recognition of their contribution to a positive Soviet image abroad.\n\nP. Kurochkin, one of the leading Soviet religiologists, argued that eliminating religion should be accompanied by a replacement with communist morality, otherwise the deprival of religion will simply be replaced with moral decline, consumerism and lechery.\n\nFurov, the CRA, vice-chairman wrote a report ca. 1975 (smuggled to the west 1979) wherein he claimed the existence of ‘irrefutable evidence’ of a decline in religion in the USSR. His evidence was a decrease in Orthodox clergy from 8252 in 1961 to 5994 in 1974 (he did not cite the pre-Khruschev figure of 30,000 in 1958). In his conclusion that this was a natural decline he did not take account for the masses of priests who were de-registered, imprisoned, executed, etc. The CRA had also during this period prevented more clergy from being registered or enrolling at seminaries. Furov's report provided a great deal of information about the church. He cited cases of people prevented from attending theological institutes including people who would have been greatly embarrassing to the state had they become clergy (e.g. children of highly placed Soviet leaders). With the slow erosion of the Church's institutional strength, the extinction of the Church as an institution seemed possible.\n\nOnly 4% of parents attended church in 1970 and many of them did not bring their children with them.\n\nThere were rumours in the late 1970s that a comprehensive scientific study was done by Pisarov that blatantly contradicted the official figures of people abandoning religion, but was never published for that reason.\n\nMany Soviet youth turned to religion, and concern was expressed over this attraction, which was believed by Soviet authorities to be caused by the art, architecture and music of the Church, as well as that the church's separation from political and material power by the state had removed previously negative associations with religion. This view held that the youth saw the church as preserving a cultural-historical role that had been now purified from its ugly past.\n\nFor a long period the Soviet press refused to report on this growth of religion among the youth and claims of it occurring were brushed aside as false. Readers’ letters to atheist journals that stressed the reader's concern over this growth contradicted these claims. In the 1970s a special irregular publication called ‘The World of Man’ issued by the Komsomol monthly ‘The Young Guard’ (Molodaia guardiia) was created as an answer to this threat. In this journal, religion was compared with Nazism by stressing the religious components of Nazism, and it re-interpreted Russian history through distortions such as claiming that Pushkin was an atheist and claiming such things as that Gogol's mind was harmed by religious influence. It answered letters from young Komsomol who stated things like that they didn’t think there was any harm in their Komsomol friends getting married in a church, and in response the publication decried the influence of religion penetrating the lives of Soviet youth. This propaganda alleged that the growing interest among youth was a plan of Western ideological subversion, Western broadcasts and Western religious organizations that smuggled religious literature into the USSR.\n\nAt the June 1983 CPSU Central Committee Plenum, General Secretary KU Chernenko declared that the West was trying to cultivate religiosity in the USSR as a method of subversion.\n\nA notable example of some of the press campaign directed in response to this phenomenon was the story of Sasha Karpov published in ‘Science and Religion’. The story was designed to show that young educated Soviets who became religious were hypocrites looking for fame and distinction in originality in society, without possessing any qualities that would give them the same prestige in normal Soviet life. Sasha's mother was described as a biology teacher at a rural school, who was cold and had no warmth or interest in her children. Sasha's divorced father was an alcoholic who also did not care for his children. After Sasha's mother retired from teaching she retired to a village with a functioning Orthodox church and became a pious laywoman, telling her children that she had always been a believer, but just never didn’t mention it (‘Science and Religion’ failed to mention that she would have lost her teaching job if she had mentioned it). Sasha, left on his own, then decides he wants to prove himself and he attempts singing, writing poetry, and studying to become a teacher. His artistic skill proves to be poor and the latter career frightens him with its hard work and modest life, and so he instead becomes a singing hippy. He comes across a priest eventually who hires him as a church reader and singer. Six months later he then leaves the priest, but not before he gets the priest's list of acquaintances in Moscow. One of such acquaintances he travels to, and finds a couple of young physicists (husband and wife) with an apartment full of icons and Russian artifacts. They like Sasha and consider him a seeker of Truth, and he adopts their religious habits (e.g. Crossing themselves facing the icons, praying before meals, etc.) Eventually he decides to join a monastery where he is told his voice and musical talent will let him do choral singing as his monastic duty. The article stressed that Sasha wore his cassock whenever he went to visit friends and relatives in Moscow in order to shock and impress them, and that everything in life is turned into a fraud through such choices.\n\nYoung people, especially if they were educated, were actively persecuted for practicing religion, and especially if they did so openly, or participated in Christian study groups or choirs. People who were part of such groups could be arrested and even placed in \"psychiatric prisons\". Placing the religious youth in psychiatric hospitals was based on the principle that any person who had gone through the atheistic education from kindergarten to university and yet remained religious (or even worse, if he converted), could be considered to have a kind of psychological disorder.\n\nThe 19th Komsomol congress in 1982 ordered all local committees 'to perfect that atheistic upbringing of the young generation, to profoundly expose the anti-scientific essence of religious ideology and morals'. It also called for a 'fuller use of the cinema, the theatre, institutions of culture and libraries for the scientific-atheistic propaganda' and to 'improve individual atheistic work with children and teenagers, especially with those stemming from religious families; recruit young teachers, pioneer and Komsomol workers for this work... Educate militant atheists, form active atheistic public opinion, do no leave without an exacting reprimand every case of the Komsomol members' participation in religious rites'.\n\nOfficial journals in 1982 raised more alarm about growing apathy towards Marxism and ideology among Soviet youth. This was blamed on 'bourgeois philosophers' who charged the Marxist–Leninist ideology with responsibility for bad science, and who blamed the state for violating freedom of research and academic autonomy. The journal 'Voprosy filisofi' on the sixtieth anniversary of Lenin's 1922 article 'On the Importance of Militant Materialism' even claimed that the state's antireligious struggle was still quite weak and needed improvement.\n\nThe state's allowance of expansions to existing seminaries bore fruit, and by the early 1980s, the student population at these institutions had grown to 2300 day and extramural students (it had been 800 in 1964).\n\nSoviet Statistics from the late 1960s claimed that more people were leaving the Orthodox Church to join other sects than vice versa. There were Orthodox Christians who also formed independent communities that were separated from the official hierarchy.\n\nSeveral religions had been completely outlawed and practicing members of them could be arrested if caught. These included Eastern Catholics, Jehovah's Witnesses, Russian Jehovists, Buddhists (Buriats and Kalmuks were permitted to be Buddhists but no one else), Pentecostals and the unofficial or ‘Initiative’ Baptists (Baptists who had broken from the Baptist community in 1962 because they did not accept state control of their church). Any religion that was not registered with the Soviet government was automatically considered illegal and the state could pursue a policy of open persecution of these groups (for other religions it was a hidden policy using other guises). Lack of registration resulted both from the Soviet government refusing to register certain groups and also as a result of certain groups refusing to be registered as well as to then accept some degree of Communist influence through registration.\n\nThe Soviet government had an official policy that the Jehovah's Witnesses would not be persecuted if they registered with the state. At the same time Soviet propaganda constantly maligned the group as a subversive organization. A large amount of space in the anti-religious press was devoted to attacking Jehovah's Witnesses and Jehovists during the course of 1983-1985, which suggests growth in the movement in these years. At least fifteen of their activists were arrested in 1984, of which seven received prison sentences.\n\nThe Russian Jehovists were a sect similar to the Jehovah's Witnesses, founded by Russian artillery Captain, NS Il’insky in the 19th century. It was characterized by its radical condemnation of all state power as the kingdom of Satan, which was a message that attracted many people in the USSR, leading to the growth in the movement.\n\nIn the early history of the state, Buddhist communities had tried to reform their religion in the face of Communism. Prominent Buddhists proclaimed that Buddha lived in Lenin, and that Buddha in Lenin had founded Communism.\nAfter Khrushchev, Buddhists were subjected to a wave of attacks after some Eastern bloc intellectuals converted to Buddhism. In 1972 a leading Buddhist and Tibetan scholar in the USSR, Bidia Dandaron, was arrested and sentenced to five years’ hard labour. He was a secret Buddhist monk, lama and teacher and was hated by the regime for converting a number of intellectuals to Buddhism. He was charged in the press for supposedly organizing drunken orgies under the guise of religious meetings, taking bribes, cultivating adoration of himself and corrupting youth. Several of his associates and students were arrested with him. Dandaron had already spent almost twenty years in prison under Stalin, and most of the charges were thrown out in court, however, he was still given his sentence of five years. The judge at his trial claimed \"If it were in my power I would send all religious believers to Kolyma\". Four of his students who were active research scholars and teachers were sent to psychiatric institutions and eight other students of his lost their employment.\n\nHindu groups in Kranoiarsk in Siberia were disbanded in 1981–1982, and their leader, E. Tretiakov, was sent to prison for ‘parasitism’.\n\nMany Soviet intellectuals found their way to Christianity by first experimenting with Eastern religions.\n\nOne of the leaders of the unofficial Baptists had a campaign of character assassination against him in the press after a supposed adulterous love affair he had in Siberia, which also played upon the conclusion that the underground Baptists as a whole were immoral lechers (the press never mentioned the reason why he was in Siberia, however; he was in an administrative exile).\n\nPersecution was stepped up in the 1970s against the Initiative Baptists. The official Baptist church was treated comparatively well, with allowance of genuine debates in its congresses, and allowance to vote against decisions or candidates promoted by the state (even succeeding once in electing their own candidate instead). The official baptists were allowed to open many new churches (exceeding per capita numbers for the Orthodox). This preferential treatment was designed to strike at the baptists who had broken off in order to give them the message that there was no point in remaining in opposition.\n\nThe Initiative Baptists had a position that they would accept state registration but only if it did not involve control of their religion. The Soviet government refused to accept these terms, and the group was persecuted. Initiative Baptists who tried to give religious instruction to children or organize youth groups were arrested. Eugene Pushkov, an initiative Baptist, was arrested for these and other reason in 1980, and after his release in 1983, he was asked to cooperate with the KGB as an informer, but he refused, which led to his re-arrest shortly thereafter and a sentence of four years, which he appealed, and after hearing his appeal, he was given an eight-year sentence.\n\nMany Baptists were arrested under charges of breaking the laws against performance of religious activities outside of officially recognized church structures. 202 baptists were arrested for this reason in mid-1967, of which 190 were sentenced to imprisonment. The number of initiative Baptists in the camps went from 79 in 1979, to 120 in 1981, to 165 in 1982 and to over 200 in 1984. Many of the buildings they used for prayers were destroyed. In one instance, in Chervotsy in the western Ukraine, a huge tent was raised by Initiative Baptists, which was visited by the militia. The militia forbade people to come to the tent, stating that there were land mines placed in the tent, and the tent was soon after destroyed.\n\nMalicious sadism was present in some of these closures for the Initiative Baptists as it was also present for closures for other religions. For example, in the city of Issyk in Alma-Ata province, the local government suggested to the local initiative Baptist group in 1974 that they should build a permanent house of worship, the community happily did this. In 1976, the authorities then ordered the believers to wreck the building they had constructed, which they refused to do. The state then took the opportunity to arrest the minister for breaking the law and then confiscated the building.\n\nThe Baptists ran an illegal press called the \"Khristianin Publishers\". One of their presses was found by KGB near Riga in October 1974 and those who ran it were sentenced to long terms of hard labour. Their underground publishing continued, however, and they boasted of having published nearly half a million Gospels in ten years.\n\nFifty of their members were imprisoned in 1981, and seventy-three in 1982. A total of 165 of their members were in prison and camps by the end of 1982.\n\nThe Baptists ran illegal children and youth camps for many years. The state made great efforts at trying to eliminate religious instruction to minors.\n\nGeorge Vins, the former Council Secretary of the Initiative Baptists was imprisoned and expelled to the United States in 1979. After he left, it was alleged that he was sending instructions from the USA back through the USSR to protest Soviet legislation. P. Rumachik, another Initiative Baptist leader, was released from prison in 1977, and was alleged to have been caught by the KGB in 1980 for running clandestine printing shops. The Initiative Baptists ran underground printing presses, which greatly irritated the state. Rumachik was linked with Vins, and sentenced to five years’ hard labour. This affair was further linked to an Initiative Baptist pastor named Dimitry Miniakov who was arrested in 1978 for supposed collaboration with the Germans in World War II.\n\nPentecostals had merged with the Baptists in 1945, but when the split in the Baptists occurred in 1961-62, many Pentecostals left the official church and did not join the initiative Baptists. They became more prominent in the 1960s and 1970s, and in some areas they successfully achieved registration with the CRA, but about half of their community refused to register because of their refusal to accept Soviet bans on spreading religion to youth or children, bans on prayer meetings, as well as bans on preaching, missionary and charity work as well the practice of their key religious rites. The renegades suffered fines and arrests for breaking these rules, and they were also persecuted for refusing to take part in the Soviet military except in engineering or medical corps. They were subject to many raids and their religious literature was confiscated. In 1971 there was an incident in Chernogorsk where they were dispersed with a firehose. A number of people of German background belonged to this sect, and some of them attempted to emigrate, but were persecuted for attempting to do so. A group of such Pentecostal were tried in April 1985 for going on a hunger strike until they were allowed entry to West Germany, and their leader was sentenced to five years in a labour camp.\n\nAn extremist religious group broken off from the Ukrainian Rite Catholics called Pukutnyky had appeared in the mid-1950s and was illegal. It was attacked in the press for supposedly counterfeiting signs from God that declared the end of the world, as well as for terrorizing people who left their sect by burning their houses.\n\nEastern Rite Catholics (Uniates) had been outlawed in the USSR since 1946. After they were made illegal at that time, seven of their bishops and two thousand of their priests who refused to discontinue their tradition were sent to concentration camps or imprisoned. These churches continued to exist underground up to the fall of the Soviet Union. The state was officially opposed to these groups because of their strong association with nationalist identities. The state mercilessly persecuted them, and constantly raided their places of worship. Many eastern-rite catholic clergy were released in the 1950s following Stalin's death. Problems with regard to strong resistance to the state on account national identification with religion were found among Muslims in Central Asia.\n\nIn 1924 at the Fifth Congress of the Seventh Day Adventists in Russia, the leaders of the Adventist community declared Lenin's socialism a blessing and that Lenin was a leader chosen by God; they also proclaimed their full support and dedication to Marxism. After this congress, there was a significant split in the Adventist community when a portion of the community formed what was called the ‘True and Free’ Adventists. This breakdown was further amplified in 1928 at their congress when the leaders of the official Adventists declared it the duty of Adventists to serve in the Red Army and to bear arms. The breakaway group became subject to continual and vicious persecutions down to the fall of communism. Its leader, VA Shelkov served three sentences in prisons totally 23 years prior to his fourth and final sentence in 1979 during, which imprisonment he died. Shelkov was an excellent organizer of his underground community, and the sect continued to survive as well as to print bibles or other religious tracts, despite constant raids and imprisonments. A wave of arrests of this group occurred in 1978–1979, when the authorities unsuccessfully conducted a national search to find their printing press. The community did not have any religious buildings, but gathered in private quarters for prayers on Saturdays, which allowed this sect to keep itself hidden more easily.\n\nSoviet scholars estimated that 10 to 25% of the traditional Muslim minority in the USSR were still active believers, but this was contradicted by Western observers and Soviet Islamic leaders who claimed that almost all of the traditional Muslim minority were active believers. In 1965 an investigation into mosque attendance in the Kazakh SSR revealed that 10% of worshippers were Komsomol members. A further study in 1985 found that 14 percent of the Uzbek Communist Party and 56 percent of the Tajik Communist Party were believing Muslims.\n\nA considerable amount of reconciliation existed between Muslims in the USSR and the state. There was support for the Soviet system in the Muslim community for adopting laws dictated by Allah through Muhammad, even though the government were atheists.\n\nCircumcisions, like Christian baptisms, were often done in secret.\n\nSufi groups had been outlawed, and the state organized 4 bodies to oversee Islamic activities in the USSR. Three of these were for Sunni Muslims (based in Makhachkala, Tashkent and Ufa) and the fourth was for Shi'ite Muslims (based in Baku). These bodies reported directly to the CRA. A Madrasah in Bukhara as well as an Islamic Institute in Tashkent were permitted to exist and trained Islamic clergy. In great contrast to other faiths in the USSR, the Muslim clergy could leave the country in order to receive training.\n\nAn example of Soviet perspective on Islam is what is written in a Soviet grammar book that had the following answers to a series of questions on Islamic practices:\n\nA: The Mullah reads the Qur'an and when someone dies he reads prayers.\n\nQ: What does he read about in the Qur'an?\n\nA: We do not know.\n\nQ: Does he himself understand what he reads?\n\nA: No.\n\nQ: Does he read the prayers for nothing?\n\nA: No, he gets money for this.\n\nIn 1984 there were 1100 mosques functioning in the country, which fell far below the requirements of the population.\n\nLike other religions, large amounts of illegal underground activities took place among Muslims who operated underground presses, organized unofficial Islamic communities and pilgrimages to local holy places. The Hajj to Mecca was nearly impossible for most Soviet Muslims, and only a handful (around 60) were officially permitted to go each year and they were tasked beforehand with presenting a positive Soviet image abroad.\n\nProblems with regard to strong resistance to the state on account national identification with religion were found among Muslims in Central Asia. The clear ethnic linkage between Islam and certain ethnic groupings made it difficult for the state to wipe out the religion due to their attacks provoking nationalist feelings among the ethnic groupings.\n\nThe state tried to showcase its (supposedly) positive treatment of Muslims in propaganda campaigns in the third world in order to gain support for Soviet interests. The events of the revolution in Iran in the late 1970s as well as the growing Islamic opposition to the USSR in the war in Afghanistan, led to the USSR launching a new crackdown on Islam in its last decade, with arrests of Muslims who attempted to disseminate religious literature.\n\nFollowing the collapse of communism, in many Muslim areas the collapse was celebrated and Muslim leaders tried to educate the population about Islam.\n\nOld Believer sects (Orthodox who had split from the Orthodox church in the 17th century) were still treated as anti-social and criminal institutions. Many distortions of them still occurred in the official press after Khrushchev. A sect called Skrytniki (concealers) led by Khristofor Zyrianov was accused of engaging in mass suicides through self-immolation in the woods of Northern Russia in the pre-war period. Zyrianov had been suspected of this at the time and was oddly given a brief sentence of administrative exile in 1932 (which may make the allegations to be probably untrue, since if he really did this, he would have been shot).\n\nA novel was published in ‘Science and Religion’ supposedly based on a true story that concerned an Old Believer sect called the ‘True Orthodox Wanderers’. In the story, a young Moscow Komsomol girl comes under the influence of a regular Moscow Orthodox priest who sends her to an underground Siberian skete with a pious woman. There, the girls is taught to do future missionary work and to take secret monastic vows. She is treated to severe fasting, hatred of the world, despotic exploitation, banning of all literature but the bible and some theological tracts, living in a cellar without seeing the sun, absence of smiles or friendliness, and rudeness. This atmosphere was presented as an accurate depiction of life in the Old Believer sects. Eventually the girl is rescued by her Sherlock Holmes-like and heroic Komsomol friends.\n\nOften the official propaganda failed to make a distinction between these sects and the regular Orthodox church. This may have been deliberate in order to tie up the Orthodox with the supposed crimes of the sects.\n\nThe Old believers attempted to have many churches reopened, but they were unsuccessful. There was a Samizdat report in 1969 that an Old Believer priest was murdered by the KGB for refusing to work for them.\n\nBefore the war, Catholic areas in the Ukraine and in Belarus stubbornly defended their faith in the 1930s and the anti-religious institutions complained of the great influence that Catholic priests had over the local people.\n\nMost Roman Catholics in the USSR lived in areas that had been annexed during World War II, which meant that most of them escaped much of the pre-war persecutions. This meant that the Catholic Church had proportionally more functioning churches and seminaries that could be attacked in the post-war persecutions than the Orthodox church. In Lithuania two of the three seminaries were closed, and the clergy was reduced from 1500 to 735 serving 628 churches.\n\nOrganized persecutions developed against the Roman Catholic Church in Lithuania. Priests were harassed and imprisoned for catechesis to children, since this was considered organized religious instruction to minors (banned in 1918). Lithuanian bishops, Steponavichus and Sladkiavichus were exiled. Teachers could be fired for their religious views, and many catholic churches were demolished. The church of St Kazimir was turned into a museum of atheism, the Vilnius cathedral became an art gallery, the church of the Resurrection in Kaunas became a radio-making factory, and the Jesuit Cathedral in Kaunas became a sports hall. The Klaipeda cathedral, which had been built after many years of petitioning in 1961, was closed and confiscated.\n\nThe authorities in Lithuania, as in other parts of the country, also resisted attempts to reverse Khrushchev's acts against religion. A church in the village of Zhaleyi, which was closed in 1963, was turned into a flour mill in 1978. The local miller, however, refused to work in it, and the mill was forced to be run only four hours a week. Petitioners failed to achieve results when they asked to re-opened.\n\nThe state encountered a major problem in its campaign in Lithuania, however, because like in Poland, there was a strong national identification of the Lithuanians with the Roman Catholic Church and the persecutions received national resistance as well as publicity. Thousands of Lithuanians protested the antireligious campaign in their country. A petition of 148,149 signatures was printed as a book that was sent to Brezhnev. In 1977, a petition was signed by 554 of the over 700 Roman Catholic priests in Lithuania, and the state reacted very cautiously by arresting and sentencing only a few priests among the signatories.\n\nRoman Catholicism in the Western Ukraine also put up a strong resistance to Soviet attempts to curtail it.\n\nA lack of such an atmosphere in Russia in defence of the Orthodox church allowed for the regime to pursue less tolerant positions there.\n\nIn areas where Catholics were only a small minority such as in Belarus or Moldova, the state found it much easier to attack their community. In Moldova, every catholic church was closed except for a small chapel in Kishinev. The priest in this church was forced to only use German or Polish during the masses, which deprived it of seeking potential converts among the local population. He was also denied permission to visit the rural communities. In the largest of such communities in Rashkovo, the church was wrecked on Christmas Day 1977 by a detachment of militia, and the religious activists who were guarding the church were temporarily arrested.\n\nRoman Catholic Bishops in Lithuania were denied the right to visit the Vatican in 1986 and Pope John Paul II was not allowed to visit Lithuania in 1987 on the 600th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of union between Lithuania and Poland which led to Lithuania's conversion.\n\nBy the 1980s the number of legally authorized synagogues in the Soviet Union had dropped to 50 and rabbinical training had long been stopped.\n\nIn order to print their own material, believers often used ‘samizdat’ (do-it-yourself press), which became increasingly widespread in the later years of the USSR. Samizdat was illegal publishing of works carried out by religious groups, dissidents, and many others who wanted to avoid the official censors.\n\nFor believers this often took the form of some text from the scriptures, prayers or writings of the church fathers, which were handwritten with an attached instruction to make nine more copies and to send these copies to other addressees, or else God would punish them (and those addressees would then copy and send another nine, and so on). The state employed historical revisionism of its history, and therefore accounts of the state's crimes had to be printed in Samizdat. Some of the most popular of samizdat letters contained excerpts from the book of revelations.\n\nThese letters were known about by the state (who sometimes even produced fake samizdat that was spread among believers in order to sow distrust among them) and they were viciously attacked by the atheist press, for supposedly containing all sorts of evil anti-soviet and hateful writings, as well as for being used in an inhuman manner (e.g. The journal ‘Science and Religion’ reported many supposed situations where the letters arrived in the middle of a family tragedy wherein they could duplicate the letters but in agony they try to fulfill the instruction out of fear of divine punishment by getting a child to do it, who therefore becomes traumatized by being exposed to religious propaganda).\n\nAttempts to import religious literature from the West were treated as anti-Soviet subversion. Jehovah's Witness literature was treated likewise.\n\nIn April 1982 five young Orthodox Christians were arrested in Moscow for having illegally possessed a Xeroxing machine that they used to print thousands of religious books and brochures, which they allegedly sold for a profit. It was disproved in court that they had made profit from the enterprise, but they were sentenced to 4 and 3 year sentences. Further searches of their associates revealed more caches of religious literature.\n\nTwo new decrees issued by the RSFSR Supreme Soviet on 18 March 1966 (219 and 220) assigned penalties of fines for people who organized religious meetings for youth and children or for failing to register a religious community, and also assigned a penalty of imprisonment for people who repeatedly violated this law.\n\nIn the late 1960s most of the human rights movements in the Soviet Union developed under the slogan of defence of Soviet legality and demanded that Soviet officials respect their own laws (since the acts used in the persecutions were often technically illegal under Soviet law). Internal instructions were used as a basis for much of the persecutions, however, and they usually trumped Soviet law in practice.\n\nIn 1975 the Council for Religious Affairs (CRA) was given an official legal supervision role over the church (prior to this it had unofficial control). Every parish was placed at the disposal of the CRA, which alone had the power to grant registration. It was illegal for a religious community to practice their faith without CRA approval (including public prayers, meeting together, etc.) Until a religious community was registered was the CRA, it could not practice its faith. In order to be registered it needed to submit a petition to the local government which would then send it to the CRA with its own comments and recommendations within a period of no longer than one month. The CRA, however, could take as much time as it chose before it came to the decision of registering a parish. This greatly weakened the church, which earlier had only needed to deal with local government with which it had the power to appeal. The new policy was designed to more greatly strangle the Church. This was accompanied by intimidation, blackmail and threat to the clergy, and as a whole it was meant to demoralize the Church.\n\nThis legislation did, however, strengthen the church by admitting the Church's legal status to build and own secular buildings for residence or administrative use, or for the production of articles necessary for the given religious cult.\n\nThe Soviet Constitution of 1977 was sometimes interpreted by authorities as containing a requirement for parents to raise their children as atheists. This had been preceded by the new family legislation in 1968 and the laws on national education in 1973. These laws maintained that it was the duty of parents to raise their children as communists and atheists. The family code allowed for courts to deprive parents of their rights over their children if they failed in this task, and the constitution implied this as well. These legal restrictions were only enforced selectively when the authorities chose to do so.\n\nThe 1977 constitution in Article 124 also replaced the terminology 'freedom of antireligious propaganda' (from the old constitution) with the new phrase 'freedom of atheistic propaganda'. This was interpreted as a difference between a negative approach of destroying religion and a positive approach of replacing it with an atheistic culture.\n\nThe CPSU Central Committee in 1979 called for the implementation of concrete measures for the escalation of atheistic education, and to 'raise the responsibility of communists and Komsomol members in the struggle against religious superstitions'. This was seen as signal to intensify anti-religious propaganda by CP organizations, the mass media, higher and secondary schools, as well as institutions of culture and scientific research.\n\nThe Moscow Patriarchate successfully applied pressure in order to get revision of some of the anti-religious legislation. In January 1981, the clergy were requalified in their tax status from being taxed as a private commercial enterprise (as they were before) to being taxed as equal to that of medical private practice or private educators. This new legislation also gave the clergy equal property and inheritance rights as well as the privileges that were granted to citizens if they were war veterans. The parish lay organization of 20 persons who owned the parish was granted the status of a legal person with its appropriate rights and the ability to make contracts (the church had been deprived of this status by Lenin in 1918). For the first time in many years, religious societies could legally own their houses of worship. There was still some ambiguity left in this legislation, however, which allowed room for re-interpretation if the state wished to halt 'uncontrolled' dissemination of building new churches.\n\nThe CC issued another resolution in 1983 that promised for ideological work against religion to be the top priority of party committees on all level.\n\nReligious societies were given control over their own bank accounts in 1985.\n\nThis legislation in the 1980s marked a new attitude of acceptance towards religion by a state that decided that best it could do was simply to minimize the harmful impact of religion. While the state tried to intensify persecution during the 1980s, the church came to see this increasingly as merely rearguard attacks by an ideologically bankrupt, but still physically powerful, enemy. The top party leaders refrained from direct involvement in the new offensive, perhaps due to an uncertainty over their potential success and a desire to have some manoeuvrabality according to a desire to avoid antagonizing believers too much on the eve of the millennial anniversary of Russia's conversion to Christianity.\n\nReligious bodies could still be heavily infiltrated by state agents, due to the power of local governments to reject elected parish officials and install their own people in the lay organization that owned the parish, which meant that even if they had ownership over their churches, it was still effectively in the state's hands. The largest gain of this new legislation, however, was that children of ten years of age and over could actively participate in religious ritual (e.g. service as acolytes, psalmists, in choirs) and that children of any age could be present inside a church during services as well as receive communion.\n\nSoviet psychiatric practice considered that highly educated people who became religious believers at a mature age, especially if they came from atheist families, suffered from a psychotic disorder. This diagnosis was especially used for monks or nuns as well as for well-educated preachers. This practice allowed for popular monks and nuns (or other believers) who otherwise could not be plausibly charged with any other crime, to be removed and sent to psychiatric facilities. Since their faith was considered to be a mental disorder, people who were given this treatment were given immediate release if they renounced their faith in God and therefore had become \"cured\".\n\nParticular cases of this that are known include:\n\nThe religious nationalist was interred for two and half months in 1962 in a psychiatric hospital that administered insulin shock therapy to cure him of his religious belief. He was interred again in 1969 for a few weeks after which he was released as a result of public attention of his incarceration.\n\nFr Iosif Mikhailov of Ufa who was sent to the Kazan psycho-prison in 1972 and remained there for up to at least the last years of communism.\n\nValeria (Makeev), a nun at the same facility from 1978 up to at least the last years of communism. She was initially accused of black-marketing (for selling religious articles to believers), but when the case for this failed to materialize, she was instead diagnosed as psychotic.\n\nFr Lev Konin was sent to psycho-prison several times before he was expelled to the West in 1979. He had contacts with Leningrad students and had spoken at an unofficial religio-philosophic seminar of young Soviet intellectuals in Leningrad.\n\nYurii Belov, a student of history and literature, was sent to the Sychevcka psycho-prison and was told in 1974 by a representative of the central Moscow Serbsky Institute of Forensic Medicine: ‘In our view religious convictions are a form of pathology, hence our use of drugs’.\n\nA 33-year-old doctor, Olga Skrebets with a PhD in medical sciences, was diagnosed with an early stage of schizophrenia and sent to a hospital in Kiev in 1971 after she had withdrawn from CPSU membership for religious reason.\n\nThe 44-year-old Baptist, Alexander Yankovich, had engaged in unofficial writing and duplication of religious literature from 1957 to 1976. In 1976 he was arrested and declared insane.\n\nEvgenii Martynov, a thirty-five-year-old Pentecostal civil engineer was sent to the Cherniakhovski psycho-prison in 1978.\n\nVasilii Shipilov, an Orthodox layman, was sentenced to ten years’ hard labour in 1939 at the age of 17 for being a student at an underground seminary. In 1949, after his release, he roamed Siberia and proclaimed the Kingdom of God as well as criticized Stalin's abuses. He was soon rearrested and declared insane. He spent most of the period between 1950-1979 in psycho-prisons, where he was subject to constant beatings and mockery of his religion.\n\nA twenty-year-old history student named Galliamov was baptized when he was eighteen and had spent the summer of 1978 as a pilgrim at the few remaining monasteries. He was diagnosed a ‘psychopath of mixed type’ and subjected to high doses of neuroleptics, causing him nausea, high fever and heart attacks. He was released after two months and warned by the doctor to stop visiting monasteries or else his condition might evolve into schizophrenia.\n\nOne of the most blatant of such cases occurred in 1976 to 25-year-old Moscow intellectual, Alexander Argentov, a neophyte Orthodox Christian from an atheistic family. He had founded the Moscow-based religio-philosophic seminar in 1974, headed by Alexander Ogorodnikov (a graduate student of cinematography that was expelled from the institute along with others for trying to produce a film about religious life among Soviet youth). This seminar declared itself the successor of the religio-philosophic societies of Moscow and Leningrad that had been dispersed in the 1920s. The seminar began to be harassed in earnest in 1976 after it had grown considerably and shown much vitality, as well as established itself in Ufa (Bashkiria), Leningrad, L’vov (Ukraine), Minsk and Grodno (Belarus). Argentov and others were arrested and locked up in psychiatric institutions. Argentov's religious belief was diagnosed as a psychotic disorder. Powerful neuroleptics were administered to him for two months before he was released after wide publicity and protests of his case which reached outside the USSR.\n\nThere were no radical revisions of official state policies after Khrushchev (much of his campaign was carried out under secret unpublished instructions anyway). Most of the closed churches would remain closed and none of the closed seminaries or monasteries would be reopened. Believers tried unsuccessfully to reopen many churches. In the late 1970s and into the 1980s the state did begin to allow more churches to be built and reopened.\n\nThose convinced of religious crimes in the Soviet Union were given especially harsh treatments and were classed (along with political dissidents) as \"especially dangerous state criminals\", which disqualified them from amnesty or leniency. Religious crimes such as circulating a petition or organizing religious classes for children could be punished with strict terms in concentration camps (assault, robbery and rape had lesser sentences in the USSR) and could not be considered for parole without a formal confession.\n\nIn the entire region of Sakha-Yakutia (about half the size of the continental United States) there was only one functioning church left open after Khrushchev until the fall of communism, which meant that many believers needed to travel up to 2000 kilometres in order to get the nearest church.\n\nThe following are examples of situations known to history of these activities. In the city of Chernigov, the cathedral was closed in 1973 and only a small wooden church remained. The believers had been petitioning for a new church since 1963, but never received anything until the fall of communism. In the city of Gorky, there were only three small churches remaining to serve an estimated population of 100,000 believers (out of 40 pre-1917, when the population of Gorky was 1/15 what it was in the 1970s). The believers had been petitioning for some churches to reopened since 1967, and the petitioners were subject to professional demotions, and their demands were ignored. In the town of Naro Fominsk in the Moscow Province petitions began in 1968 to open a church. There had been no church in the vicinity of the town since the 1930s. Their petitions were ignored and given negative replies. The local atheist press claimed that no new church could be given since the existing church was going to be transformed into a museum and the press claimed there were not enough practicing Christians in the city to merit it (there were in fact 1443 signatories to the petition). The atheist press also claimed that this petition was being issued by evil people who were trying to heat up religious fanaticism and gain a cushy job at a new church. The believers presented their case in court, but were unsuccessful.\n\nA notorious church closure occurred in 1968 in the rural town of Kolyvan in the vicinity of Novosibirsk. The church of Alexander Nevsky in that town was built in the 18th century and was one of the oldest architectural monuments in the region. The local CRA plenipotentiary, Nikolaev, had been boasting for years that he would turn the church into a museum. The local fire department requested that a special water reservoir should be built next to the church to protect it from fire, and the church council complied with this request, by digging the reservoir. Shortly afterwards, the local militia declared this to be an illegal construction and confiscated the building materials from the church council so that they could not complete building the reservoir. Then the Soviet government declared the church to be unsafe due to a lack of a water reservoir, and ordered the church to be closed. In 1974, the historic church was dismantled and its pieces were sold. The local community tried to continue having services without a priest in the watchman's house in the church yard, but this was met with harassment and short arrests of the organizers. Nikolaeve eventually agreed to give them a twenty square-metre basement to hold services for their congregation of 200.\n\nAnother notorious closure occurred in 1979 in the town of Rechitsa in Belarus. The church was too small for the congregation and they requested to enlarge it. They received permission and began to do construction at their own expense. Once they finished the expansion, the building was declared a fire hazard and closed, militia guards were placed in front of it to prevent believers from using it.\n\nAn 18th-century church in the village of Mshany in Lvov diocese was closed in March 1978 and turned into grain storage. In 1979, believers surrounded the church and tried to physically prevent grain from being stored in the church. The militia was dispatched to disperse them and one woman was arrested. The believers launched unsuccessful petitions on behalf of the church.\n\nIn the village of Znosychy near Rovno in Volhynia, there was a church that had been deprived of a priest for several years, and which had been taken care of by its congregation who also gathered there for prayers. In 1977 the authorities tried to demolish the church but were stopped by resistance from the local community, and instead they tried to store grain inside the church. In response, the local village went on strike, and the authorities decided to remove the grain. On 25 April 1979 the entire population of Znosychy was ordered to work in an adjacent village, while the children were locked up in school, and during this time the church was demolished. Afterwards, believers began to gather at the site of the former church for prayers and pilgrims would come to the village. The authorities responded by putting up patrols and barriers around the village to prevent visitors. The believers also began to decorate pine trees around the church and pray under them. The authorities responded by cutting down the trees.\n\nIn two other villages in Rovno, the local population tried to reopen churches closed under Khrushchev. In one of these in 1973, while the believers were at work, the authorities dismantled the domes and stored grain in the church. The population protested furiously and the grain was removed. In 1978, after years of complaints, an official commission arrived to investigate, but they were told that believers were a tiny minority in the area by the local authorities and the commission left. In the other village, in 1973 the believers made vain appeals to re-open their churches, but they were told in reply to go to another town for services. In the autumn of 1978, a CRA representative came and promised to give them their church back, and in the meantime the local authorities asked the villagers to sign a pledge not to let their pigs roam the village streets. The villagers signed the document without reading it, and it turned out to be pledge that no one wanted a church in the village. The document was then used by the district authorities to justify their refusal to accept any more pleas to reopen the church.\n\nMany more examples beyond these exist.\n\nIn 1983 at least over 300 of all religions were in some sort of imprisonment solely for practicing their faith. Other estimates are far higher and this figure does not include the masses of believers who were subject to administrative harassment and persecutions from day to day. These figures of course are little in comparison, however, with what occurred earlier in the USSR's history.\n\nThese persecutions could result from acts of charity (which were still illegal according to the 1929 legislation). Such illegal acts of charity could include bishops who secretly gave money to poorer parishes that could not pay for their repairs, clergy and parish staff who gave money to poor parishioners, giving money to parishioners who suffered loss of homes from fires, or believers giving public dinners to people, including pilgrims.\n\nThey could result from group pilgrimages to holy places (which was also still illegal). These pilgrimages were subjected to very brutal attacks by militia and Komsomol voluntary aides leading to physical injuries and the state claimed that they were organized by either fanatic believers or opportunists trying to make income.\n\nPersecutions could also result from either worship or performance of religious rites in private dwellings, or doing it in churches without reporting them to the state. There was official pressure against people getting baptism and there were often practical difficulties of obtaining a baptism in areas without churches. Few couples had traditional Christian marriage ceremonies. Religious rites were sometimes done secretly in order to protect believers from harassment at work or in school, since the record books that churches had to keep were regularly inspected by the KGB. The state reported that such activities were done by priests who were trying to earn extra income from unrecorded donations. This paradigm was cited by Feodosii, the former bishop of Poltava in his 1977 letter to Brezhnev where he stated that most adults who converted to Orthodoxy went to retired priests for baptisms, because they could perform baptisms without having to enter the names of the newly baptized into the registry. The provincial CRA official found out about this and demanded that every baptismal candidate be reported, after which CRA agents would attempt to create many problems at the candidate's place of work or study in order to dissuade him from receiving baptism. The Bishop refused to cooperate with this.\n\nThe Komsomol was still engaged in vandalism of churches and harassment of believers during this period (as it was during the 1930s when it was also criticized for laxity).\n\nPriests and bishops who did not completely subordinate themselves to the state and/or who engaged in religious activities outside of the routine performance of religious rites, were considered to be enemies of the state. Bishops criticized for 'high religious activity' were moved around the country. The Council for Religious Affairs claimed to have gained control of the Patriarch's Synod, which was forced to co-ordinate its sessions and decisions with the CRA.\n\nThe widespread persecution of clergy under Khrushchev was replaced with a more selective persecution of simply the most dedicated priests, especially if they attracted young people, or offered pastoral guidance. The CRA had a policy to appoint priests who were not wanted, and the state continued to find means to shut down churches. At the same time, however, the CRA claimed that the church's position was improving under newly passed legislation.\n\nThe church hierarchy could have no disciplinary powers. While the state allowed for freedom of sermons and homilies, this freedom was limited in that they could only be of an 'exclusively religious character' (in practice this meant that clergymen who preached against atheism and the state ideology were not protected). All of the anti-religious legislation was designed to make the church as passive as possible. Lukewarm clergy were tolerated while clergy with a missionary zeal could be deregistered. This was in accordance both with Lenin's teaching that immoral or even criminal priests should be preferred over active and popular ones, and it was also in accordance with a secret 1974 CRA resolution ‘On the State of Supervision over the Activities of the Theological Educational Establishments of the Russian Orthodox Church’ in which it was resolved to study seminary candidates, to take measures to prevent ‘fanatical’ (i.e. actively religious) people from entering seminaries as teachers or students, to elevate the sense of citizenship among teachers and students, as well as to enhance political education for teachers and students so as to give them ‘profound patriotic convictions’.\n\nA massive number of cases could be cited of clergy who were persecuted for being dedicated priests. Examples include:\n\nVasilii Boiko, a young Kiev priest, lost his position as the choir director at the Virgin Mary Protection church in Kiev for organizing a youth choir, consisting of recent converts and reverts. The choir was disbanded and he was sent as a reader to a provincial church.\n\nZdriliuk, a young Kiev engineer and convert to Orthodoxy, was privately ordained a priest after passing theological examinations. Three years after his ordination he was de-registered following a police search of his house that revealed a cache of religious literature as well as his distribution of such literature to believers.\n\nPaganism was reported to have re-appeared in areas where the church had been eliminated.\n\nCases of less preferential treatment occurred in the cases of believers who had greater educational or professional levels. Party members, administrative personnel of the high and middle executive categories, teachers and professors of all types, army officers and personnel of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other such people would incur direct persecution for baptizing their children. Often they had to find priests who would agree to do perform the sacrament secretly. Peasants and workers rarely suffered the same degree of consequences for engaging in religious activities. The uneducated and elderly in the post-Khrushchev years were generally left alone.\n\nAlmost no new clerical ordinations were allowed in the Ukraine during this period. There were bans on home-educated candidates as well. Unsuccessful candidates to seminaries anywhere in the country could face all sorts of harassment and persecution.\n\nArchbishop Feodosii reported in his account that he refused to cooperate with the local plenipotentiary when the latter wanted to close churches, and after this he was transferred to the north-Russian diocese of Vologda where there was only 17 open churches. The Archbishop listed a number of direct and indirect persecutions employed by the CRA almost daily. Included among such things were methods like him being attacked for sending priests to replace sick priests during a Sunday liturgy without permission, and temporarily depriving the replacement priest of registration. Attempts to replace structures falling into dilapidation with better ones resulted in the new brick structures being torn down by militia and komsomol. The Bishop was criticized for supporting petitions to Moscow. He also cited CRA pressure to raise peace fund contributions and historical monuments contribution, from 36,210 roubles in 1968 to 161,328 roubles in 1976 (while the diocese only received 124,296 roubles in donation). Parishes had to increase their donations in order to meet this, and eventually the diocese fell into debt. This resulted in more parishes being closed for lack of funds.\n\nHarassment of pilgrims and monasteries increased in the early 1980s.\n\nTwo priests named Nikolai Eshliman and Gleb Yakunin received worldwide fame after issuing a brave memoranda to the Soviet government and to Patriarch Alexii in 1965, which protested the persecution, the forced closure of churches and the inactivity of the Patriarchs and bishops in defending the church. Shortly afterwards the atheist press conducted a campaign of character assassination. They claimed that Yakunin had become a priest for purely pecuniary reasons. Yakunin and Eshliman had, like many other Christian evangelists in the USSR, attempted to acquire illegal religious publications, including from the west. This fact allowed the state to then brand the men as well laity connected with them as criminals, black-marketeers and even being connected with Western intelligence services (who were allegedly sending religious and theological literature into the USSR for purposes of ideological subversion).\n\nOn 15 November 1966, the church of the Holy Trinity was demolished in Leningrad.\n\nA notable case was reported in Samizdat documents concerning Vladimir Rusak (a.k.a. Vladimir Stepanov), a Russian Orthodox deacon and a graduate of the Moscow Theological Academy who had worked as one of the editors of the Journal of Moscow Patriarchate. In 1980 he complete a manuscript about the history of the Russian church under the Soviet Union, which was critical of the state. His immediate superior, Archbishop Pitirim, discovered this and ordered him to destroy it, but he refused, and he was sent to Vitebsk in Belarus to serve a church there. On 28 March 1982 he gave a sermon at a Passion service on the Passion of Christ and the suffering of the church in the world, and he claimed that a persecuted Church was spiritually stronger and closer to God than a triumphant Church, and in this context he condemned the post-Constantine legacy of national and state churches, and he praised the Bolshevik Revolution for having once again raised persecution against the Church, which therefore purified the Church of all but those who were truly dedicated to it. In the same sermon he discussed the persecutions of the state and condemned the hierarchy for disowning the martyrs, to whom he claimed the Church owed its survival. He told the parishioners not to lose heart in the wake of the atheist persecution, and that one should not expect both an easy life on earth and a reward in heaven. After this sermon, he was de-registered and sent to a monastery, and his superiors said they could do nothing to help because of KGB pressure upon them. He was recommended to get a secular job, because there was no longer any position in the church that would be allowed to him.\n\nFr Dimitry Dudko was a popular preacher and catechist in Moscow, who prepared hundreds of adults for baptism. He began to hold question-and-answer sessions instead of regular sermons at this church, and this made him very popular among people but very unpopular among the authorities. He was one of the most influential religious dissidents of the time. Under their pressure he was forced to be removed in 1973 to the rural parish of Kabanovo, eighty kilometres outside of Moscow. Foreigners who visited his church in Moscow could not go to that area, but many people began flocking to his new church. In December 1975 the local soviet forced the church council to dismiss Fr. Dimitry from this parish, and thereafter he was transferred to another rural parish in the vicinity of Moscow. At that parish he began to create a well-knit church community and published a mimeographed bulletin (the first time this was used in Russia since the 1920s). In his writings and sermons he attacked atheism and blamed it for moral decline and rising alcoholism. In January 1980 he was arrested and within six months he appeared on state TV with a speech of apology wherein he condemned his past behaviour. The state magnanimously forgave him and allowed him to return to his pastoral duties, and much of his previous following deserted him.\n\nFr Vasilii Romaniuk of the village of Kosmach in the Carpathians was criticized for organizing illegal carol-singing youth groups and visiting believers’ homes during Christmas-time. The CRA claimed that he was trying to earn extra money through donations. Four years after this, he was arrested and given 10 years in jail, a labour camp and enforced internal exile for appending his signature on behalf of a Ukrainian nationalist named Valentyn Moroz. He has been sentenced in 1944 to ten years of hard labour in Siberia. He attended pastoral courses and was ordained a deacon in 1959, but the local CROCA plenipotentiary refused to allow him ordination to the priesthood. In 1964, he became a priest, and acquired a good reputation among believers as well as a bad reputation among the authorities, the latter of which harassed him continually. He was forced to change six parishes, before being arrested in 1972 for the aforementioned crime involving Moroz.\n\nFr Pavel Adelgeim was arrested in December 1969 in Kagan in Uzbekistan where he served as rector of the only local Orthodox church. He was accused of having attracted children and teenagers to the church. He was also accused of being a sadist who beat his wife and the young girls who came to his church. He had produced writings that criticized the legal status of religion in the USSR, criticizing the official ideology, and he had also had contacts with Eshliman and Yakunin. He was sentenced to three years hard labour, and he lost one of his legs during his time in the camp. After his release he became priest in the Uzbek town of Fergana. The previous pastor of the church he came to had been expelled by the parishioners for corruption with parish finances, inappropriate observation of religious rituals and other problems. The CRA, however, thought that this priest should remain and the more popular Fr Pavel was deprived of his registration in order to replace him.\n\nGleb Yakunin, a famous priest who had gathered information on persecutions that he sent to Western journalists and churches in the West, was arrested in 1979 for anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda; he was sentenced to five years in a strict regime labour camp followed by another five years of internal exile. His position on the unofficial committee that was sending these reports was inherited by Fr Vasilii Fonchenkov and Fr Nikolai Gainov, the latter of whom lost his teaching position at the Moscow theological academy and was soon after transferred to a rural parish outside of Moscow, which made his work on the committee impossible. This committee, while organized by Orthodox priests, sent reports on behalf of all Christians in the USSR.\n\nFr Alexandr Pivovarov, a very popular and dedicated Siberian priest, was arrested in 1983 and given a three and a half year sentence for distributing free religious literature, which he had acquired from secret Christian printers who were also arrested and sentenced.\n\nFr Pavel (Lysak) was expelled from the Moscow Theological Academy at the Trinity St Sergius Monastery in 1975. He was also deprived of residence rights in Moscow province, where many of his spiritual children lived. Soviet law allowed him to visit Moscow on three-day visits, and he took full advantage of this, but neighbours of the apartment that he lived at in Moscow were intimidated by the KGB to denounce him in such a way that he could be found guilty of breaking the law, and in 1984 he was arrested and sentenced to ten months in a labour camp.\n\nOne of the most appalling cases was reported to have occurred in the summer of 1983 in the Caucasus sixty kilometres outside of Sukhumi where an unregistered monastic community was discovered and dispersed. Eighteen of the monks, however, hid themselves in a narrow cave and continued their community. The authorities brought barrels filled with an incendiary mixture, dumped them at the mouth of the cave and set them on fire, so that the eighteen were burned to death.\n\nFr Nikolai Ivasiuk, in the city of Chardzhou in Turkmenistan, was found murdered on 17 December 1978. His hair was torn out, his eyes were removed, his body had been burned and there were knife wounds as well as carvings on him. The previous night believers reported having seen a car pull up with six militiamen leaving the car and entering the house. The murderers were not found in any following investigation.\n\nIn Vilnius in Lithuania, a very popular Catholic priest named Bronius Laurinavičius was reportedly thrown by four men onto a thoroughfare where he was killed by an approaching truck. Less than a year later, a lay dissident activist, Valeri Smolkin was told by the KGB to emigrate or else he would share Bronius’ fate.\n\nIn October 1981 at the Holy Virgin Protection Convent in Kiev, on the patronal feast day when there were masses of pilgrims, there was a police raid. This convent was often subject to such harassment and administrative fines, and police raids often came to capture overnight pilgrims.\n\nThe famous Pskov Monastery of the Caves was successfully infiltrated by the KGB when their informer Gavriil became abbot of the monastery after the death of his predecessor. Gavriil then began throwing out pilgrims, harassing revered monks for giving counsel or hearing confession, and he forbade group prayers. The Patriarch received many complaints about him and ordered his removal, but the Soviet Government rescinded the order and insisted he remain in place. Gavriil in 1983 was reported for having conducted violent beatings of the monks and pilgrims.\n\nThe Trinity St Sergius Lavra in Zagorsk had forty of their monks expelled between 1975-1980. These monks were popular among pilgrims as spiritual advisors and confessors, which led to their expulsion.\n\nOf all of the monastic communities, however, the Pochaev Lavra continued to suffer some of the worst persecutions to be reported. The Soviets had granted permits to very few novices to enter this monastery in order to keep down the number of the monks. In 1979 the monastery launched a petition to request the return of the land that had been confiscated under Khruschev, as well as to let it accept more novices. The confiscated land had been turned into a museum of atheism and a polyclinic. The authorities responded to this petition by launching more searches and expulsions of pilgrims as well as the expulsion of ten novices. The highly revered spiritual father Amvrosii was expelled in 1981, and his library, which contained samizdat and religious literature, was investigated by the KGB. This was followed by the arrest of more monks, one of whom, Archimandrite Alimpi, was beaten to death, and another named Pitirim became mentally ill as a result of beatings.\n\nThe aforementioned Argentov seminar continued to be harassed after its leadership was sent to psychiatric institutions. The new chairman Alexander Ogordnikov was forced to resign his janitor's job after it was discovered he had used his janitor's hut for seminar meetings. The authorities prevented him from getting a new job, and in 1979 he was arrested and sentenced to one year's hard labour for parasitism. While he was still at the camp at the end of his term, he was re-tried and accused of anti-Soviet propaganda; he was sentenced to an additional six years’ hard labour followed by another five years of internal exile.\n\nThe seminar increased in popularity and numbers, however. It expanded to Kazan, Odessa and Smolensk after Ogordonikov's arrest. In February 1979 there was a joint conference of the Leningrad and Moscow seminars. The regime reacted with various forms of unofficial harassment, including a severe anonymous beating of one of its members. This was followed by numerous KGB warnings, raids, termination of jobs and temporary arrests of the whole membership. Tat’iana Shchipkova, a professor of French and Latin at the Smolensk Pedagogical Institute and the seminar's representative in Smolensk, lost her teaching position in July 1978 and several who had attended the seminar who were students were expelled. She was deprived of her doctoral degree by the end of August 1978 on political grounds. In January 1980 she was sentenced to three years’ hard labour after she had slapped a Komsomol member on the face during a raid of a seminar meeting. Other notables arrests included Sergei Ermolaev and Igor Poliakov who were sentenced respectively to four and three-and-a-half-years’ hard labour in September 1979 for shouting anti-Soviet slogans. In April 1980, member Viktor Popkov and Vladimir Burtsev were sentenced to eighteen months’ hard labour for allegedly counterfeiting documents. Shortly afterwards, seminar leader Vladimir Proesh was sentenced to five years’ hard labour in strict regime camps followed by three years of internal exile. Just before his term ended, he was given an additional three years’ labour camp in October 1983. This long series of arrests resulted in the seminar being effectively shut down.\n\nThe 53-year-old writer and journalist, Zoia Krakhmal’nikova was a former member of the Soviet Union of Writers. She had converted to Orthodoxy as an adult and published religious samizdat. She published excerpts of the writings of the Church Fathers as well as modern Orthodox theologians, articles by converts, excerpts from the lives of the saints, and post-1917 Russian religious writing. There was very little political element in her writing beyond short biographical notes of people who had been killed by the Soviets. She was arrested and tried on 4 August 1982 and put on trial on 1 April 1983 after a long series of investigations. She was sentenced to one year in prison, followed by five years of internal exile under surveillance.\n\nA baptist named Valerii Barinov wrote and recorded a Christian rock opera entitled ‘The Trumpet Call’ around 1982. In January 1983, he and his friend Sergei Timokhin sent a petition to be able to give legal religious concerts. In response, the Soviet press launched a campaign of character assassination. In March 1984, the two were detained in Murmansk and accused of trying to cross the border to Scandinavia. Barinov was sentenced to two and a half years’ hard labour. Barinov declared a hunger strike and requested either emigration or to be declared innocent. The authorities force-fed him. He was released in September 1986.\n\nIn 1985, 'The Trumpet Call' was translated into English and re-recorded by British bass guitarist Dave Markee under the moniker The Dave Markee Band. The album was released in the U.S. on Fortress Records, a division of the Christian rock label Refuge Records. As of this writing, clips from that recording are available for listening at YouTube's web site.\n\nIn the years leading up to the 1988 millennial anniversary of Russia's conversion to Christianity, the church and the state fought over the meaning of the event and the role of the Church in Russia's history as well as culture. The state returned some of the most valued of religious sites in the country to the Church as a gesture of goodwill (such as the ancient monastery of St Daniel in Moscow that had been used as a juvenile prison, a warehouse and a factory, with the church sanctuaries deliberately used as public lavatories; the church would pay 5 millions roubles to rebuild it).\n\nA campaign ran through the media that the Church had no legitimate claim to being the source or champion of Russian culture and the development as well as survival of the Russian nation. This was a painful subject for Soviet propaganda, due to the USSR's own poor historical record as well as its wholesale destruction of cultural monuments, churches, monasteries and other elements of Russia's heritage. The media, however, nevertheless presented the Soviet state as a champion of the preservation of old cultural and historical monuments, and condemned acts of vandalism against them. The media accused the Church of capitalizing on the anniversary in order to attract attention.\n\nSoviet writers and academics tried to downplay the old thesis that the Slavs had little culture prior to Christianization, and they tried to promote the pagan culture of the country before Christianization as already developed. The 988 date was also downplayed by claiming that the Christianization of the country occurred over a few centuries and that that date was simply when Prince Vladimir forcibly baptized the Kievites. It was also downplayed by inventing (out of thin air) that the city of Kiev had its 1500th anniversary which was celebrated in 1980-82. They blamed Christianity for freezing Russian culture and that Christianity destroyed the cultural heritage of antiquity. The pre-Christian Kievan state was presented as a world power that benefitted little from Byzantium's influences. Ivan the Terrible was presented as inspired by Christian theology. It was denied that Christianity had introduced monogamy. The role of monasticism in Russia's history was belittled and blackened.\n\nThey blamed the Church for a reactionary role in the development of secular culture. The church was also criticized for an alleged lack of patriotism as well as collaboration with invaders of Russia. Russian history was re-written accordingly in order to fit this argument with regard to the Tatars, Poles and Germans. Good facts in favour of the Church were ignored, while largely only the negative facts were emphasized. The church was accused of misinforming people of the past, and church historians and theologians could be held criminally responsible.\n\nThe Church's role in history was admitted to be significant, but only in that it was used to strengthen the oppressing classes by teaching the masses to be docile. It was admitted to be progressive only in that it helped progress the supposedly feudal society of Kievan Russia as long as feudalism was a progressive force.\n\nBy 1987 the number of functioning churches in the Soviet Union had fallen to 6893 and the number of functioning monasteries to just 18.\n\nThe Church and the government remained on unfriendly terms until up to the fall of communism. In practice, the most important aspect of this conflict was that openly religious people could not join the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which meant that they could not hold any political office. However, among the general population, large numbers remained religious. In 1987 in the Russian SFSR, between 40% and 50% of newborn babies (depending on the region) were baptized and over 60% of all deceased received Christian funeral services.\n\nArrests and persecution of believers continued under Gorbachev, although some who had been arrested previously were released. The volume of antireligious propaganda did not decrease under Gorbachev in contrast to the general Soviet literary and cultural scene. This received reprimands from the party ideological department as well as a counter-campaign in the antireligious press wherein such writers were criticized.\n\nGorbachev's government reversed the pattern of his predecessors, however, with regard to creating a fund to protect and restore historical monuments including religious monuments and to educate the nation in a spirit of love and respect for its national history and culture. At the chair of this fund, a practicing Christian was placed and he was permitted to defend Christian culture and the positive role of the Church in the nation's history. Historic accounts of the state's many crimes against religious believers were allowed to be openly published in the final years of the USSR. Another breakthrough that occurred in the final years was the allowance of Christians to respond to atheist attacks in the press, and some Christian writers took the opportunity to criticize the atheist propagandists in the national media. In the national media some articles were printed that argued the decline of Soviet society resulted from a loss of the traditional family, which was held together by Christian ethics and traditions. He also adopted a new religious policy in the last years of the Soviet regime as a result of his own pragmatism, the need for international support and his desire to gain more supporters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32291", "title": "Universal House of Justice", "text": "Universal House of Justice\n\nThe Universal House of Justice () is the nine-member supreme ruling body of the Bahá'í Faith. It was envisioned by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, as an institution that could legislate on issues not already addressed in the Bahá'í writings, providing flexibility for the Bahá'í Faith to adapt to changing conditions. It was first elected in 1963, and subsequently every five years, by delegates consisting of the members of Bahá'í National Spiritual Assemblies throughout the world.\n\nThe Universal House of Justice, as the head of the religion, has provided direction to the worldwide Bahá'í community primarily through a series of multi-year plans, as well as through annual messages delivered during the Ridván festival. The messages have focused on increasing the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies, translating Bahá'í literature, establishing Bahá'í Centres, completing Bahá'í Houses of Worship, holding international conferences, and developing educational systems to enhance literacy, the role of women, spirituality for children and youth, family life, social and economic development, and communal worship. The Universal House of Justice has also played a role in responding to systemic persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran by garnering worldwide media attention.\n\nThe books and documents published by the Universal House of Justice are considered authoritative and its legislative decisions are considered infallible by Bahá'ís. While empowered to legislate on matters that are not explicitly stated in the Baha'i holy writings, the Universal House of Justice has, since its inception, limited its exercise of this function. \n\nThe Seat of the Universal House of Justice and its members reside in Haifa, Israel, on the slope of Mount Carmel. The most recent election was 29 April 2018. Although all other elected and appointed roles in the Bahá'í Faith are open to men and women, membership on the Universal House of Justice is male-only, providing an exception to the basic Bahá'í principal of the equality of men and women. The Bahá'í writings do not give a reason for this exception, but that the reason will become clear with time.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, in his book the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" first ordains the institution of the House of Justice and defines its functions. The institution's responsibilities are also expanded on and referred to in several other of Bahá'u'lláh's writings including in his \"Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh\". In those writings Bahá'u'lláh writes that the Universal House of Justice would assume authority over the religion, and would consider matters that had not been covered by himself; he stated that the members of the institution would be assured of divine inspiration, and have the regard for all peoples and safe-guard their honour.\n\nLater, `Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh's son and successor, in his Will and Testament, elaborated on its functioning, its composition and outlined the method for its election. He wrote that the Universal House of Justice would be under Bahá'u'lláh's protection, that it would be freed of error, and that obedience to it would be obligatory. `Abdu'l-Bahá first used the term \"Universal House of Justice\" to distinguish the supreme body from those local 'Houses of Justice' to be established in each community, and the secondary 'Houses of Justice' (current Bahá'í national spiritual assemblies). He also stated that the institution's decisions could be by majority vote, but that unanimous decisions were preferred, and that it would be elected by the members of the secondary Houses of Justice. He also confirmed Bahá'u'lláh's statements that its membership would be confined to men, and that the reason behind this decision would become apparent in the future.\n\nWhile both `Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, heads of the religion after Bahá'u'lláh, considered establishing the Universal House of Justice, they both declined to do so. Shoghi Effendi's reason was due to his belief in the weakness of the existing Bahá'í institutions — there were a very limited number of national spiritual assemblies and local spiritual assemblies. Thus during his lifetime, Shoghi Effendi prepared for the election of the Universal House of Justice, by establishing a strong administrative structure at the local and national levels. In 1951 when there were 9 national spiritual assemblies, Shoghi Effendi appointed members to the International Bahá'í Council, and described it as an embryonic international House of Justice. After Shoghi Effendi's unexpected death in 1957, the Hands of the Cause directed the affairs of the religion and announced that the election of the Universal House of Justice would occur in 1963 at the end of the Ten Year Crusade, an international teaching plan instituted by Shoghi Effendi.\n\nIn 1961 the International Bahá'í Council was changed to an elected body, with members of all National Spiritual Assemblies voting for its members. Then in April 1963 the first Universal House of Justice was elected, six years after the passing of Shoghi Effendi, by 56 national spiritual assemblies. The date of the election coincided with the completion of the Ten Year Crusade and also with the first centenary anniversary of the public declaration of Bahá'u'lláh in the Garden of Ridván in April 1863. Since then the Universal House of Justice has acted as the head of the religion; in 1972 it published its constitution.\n\nThe Universal House of Justice is elected through secret ballot and plurality vote in a three-stage election by adult Bahá'ís throughout the world. The House of Justice is elected without nominations or campaigning and all adult male members of the Bahá'í Faith are eligible for election to the House. The body is elected every five years during a convention of the members of the various National or Regional Spiritual Assemblies (NSAs) across the world. Each member of the various NSAs, who were themselves elected by the Bahá'ís of their country, votes for nine adult male Bahá'ís. Absentee ballots are mailed or carried by delegates. The nine people who have the most votes are elected onto the Universal House of Justice. Women are not eligible for election to the Universal House of Justice. `Abdu'l-Bahá stated that the wisdom for this will become clear in the future, and that women and men are spiritually equal. For more on this issue see Bahá'í Faith and gender equality.\n\nThe most recent full election was on 29 April 2018.. \n\nThe Universal House of Justice today guides the growth and development of the global Bahá'í community. The general functions of the Universal Houses of Justice, as stated by Bahá'u'lláh include to promulgate the cause of God, to preserve the law, to administer social affairs, to educate the people's souls, to guarantee the education of children, to make the world prosperous, and to care of the elderly and the ill who are in poverty. According to its constitution, the Universal House of Justice itself states that \"The provenance, the authority, the duties, the sphere of action of the Universal House of Justice all derive from the revealed Word of Bahá'u'lláh which, together with the interpretations and expositions of `Abdu'l-Bahá and of Shoghi Effendi ... constitute the binding terms of reference of the Universal House of Justice and are its bedrock foundation.\" Some of the powers and duties according to the constitution include:\n\nFurthermore, the Universal House of Justice is instructed by Bahá'u'lláh to exert a positive influence on the general welfare of humankind, to promote a permanent peace among the nations of the world, ensure the \"training of peoples, the up building of nations, the protection of man and the safeguarding of his honour\". The Universal House of Justice is supported by the elected national and local governing bodies of the Bahá'í Faith, (the National Spiritual Assemblies and Local Spiritual Assemblies respectively). It has, furthermore, created several appointed institutions to support its work around the world; among these are the Continental Board of Counsellors and the International Teaching Centre.\n\nThe Universal House of Justice is also given the responsibility of adapting the Bahá'í Faith as society progresses, and is thus given the power to legislate on matters not explicitly covered in the Bahá'í sacred texts. While the Universal House of Justice is authorized to change or repeal its own legislation as conditions change, it cannot dissolve or change any of the laws which are explicitly written in the sacred texts. Shoghi Effendi has written:\nIn the same book, Shoghi Effendi mentions that certain issues were left intentionally for the House of Justice to apply and legislate on as time progressed:\n\nWhile being empowered to legislate on matters, the Universal House of Justice has, since its inception in 1963, been limited in its exercise of this function. Instead it has generally provided guidance to Bahá'ís around the world; this guidance has generally been through the form of letters and messages, much like Shoghi Effendi's communications. Many of these letters have been published in compilations and are regarded as divinely empowered and authoritative; its legislative decisions are considered infallible to Bahá'ís. The letters cover a range of subjects including teaching, prayer, family life, education and Bahá'í administration. Each year on the first day of Ridván (which may be on April 20 or 21 depending on the dating of Naw-Rúz) the Universal House of Justice addresses a message to the worldwide Bahá’í community, known as Ridván messages.\n\nThe institution has also collected and published extracts from the writings of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá. In 1992 they published the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh's book of laws in English, and further translations have since been published. During these endeavours, they established departments of research and archives at the Bahá'í World Centre, and, as of 1983, have collected over 60,000 letters of Bahá'u'lláh, `Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. These collected works have been used as a base in the deliberations of the Universal House of Justice.\n\nAll of the current members of the Universal House of Justice previously served as members of the International Teaching Centre. They are:\n\n\nThe initial election in 1963 drew five members from the International Bahá'í Council, two from the National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the United States, one from the NSA of Britain, and one from the NSA of India.\n\nMembers are entered in the table under the year when they were first elected. Starting with the first election in 1963, regular elections of the entire membership have occurred every five years, and there have been five by-elections, noted in the table with \"italics\", in 1982, 1987, 2000, 2005 and 2010. All members have continued to serve after re-election in subsequent conventions. Amoz Gibson, Charles Wolcott, and Adib Taherzadeh died while in office while the other former members were allowed to retire.\n\n"}
{"id": "44702471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44702471", "title": "Wage Earner’s Suffrage League", "text": "Wage Earner’s Suffrage League\n\nThe Wage Earner’s Suffrage League was a suffrage organization founded in New York in 1911 that sought to bridge politics and labor towards the end goal of achieving women’s suffrage and ultimately disbanded in 1912. The Wage Earner’s League is an example of a predominately female led effort to bring working women into the suffrage movement to gain political momentum and influence.\n\nThe Wage Earner’s Suffrage League was a result of the differing opinions within the Socialist Party and the lack of representation of working women within the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). Following hostilities amongst members, the Socialist Party leaders convened in a party conference in December 1909 seeking a rapprochement between suffragism and Socialism. One of the issues discussed was the path of involvement Socialist suffragist should take. The National American Woman Suffrage Association was proving to be an atmosphere uncongenial to working women, while members such as Leonora O’Reilly and Rose Schneiderman injected new vigor into organizing and sought to break from its traditions. Socialist suffragists represented by Rose Schneiderman and Leonora O’Reilly pressed for the Socialist party to allow working women to freely choose their potential supporters outside of the Socialist Party. Opposing the view of Schneiderman and O'Reilly, several other Socialist suffragists called for Socialist-controlled suffrage work. Due to political alliances, the faction within the Socialist Party headed by Schneiderman and O’Reilly was defeated at the party conference in 1909 as it was decided to pursue suffrage from within the framework of Socialist Party.\n\nFollowing their defeat at the Socialist Party conference in 1909, utilizing the assistance of Mary Ritter Beard of the National Woman's Party, Rose Schneiderman and Leonora O'Reilly withdrew to form a separate suffrage organization run by, and for, factory workers seeking to enable working women to utilize the political resources of their choosing. Rose Schneiderman and Leonora O'Reilly officially founded the Wage Earner’s League for Woman Suffrage on March 22, 1911 in New York City. This organization sought to utilize the support of the mainstream suffrage movement in a pragmatic effort to attain the vote for women. Among the organization’s cofounders were waistmakers Clara Lemlich and Mollie Schepps, and laundry worker Margaret Hinchey. The oldest of the founders, Leonora O'Reilly, was elected the president of the Wage Earner’s League while the famed organizer of the New York shirtwaist strike of 1909, Clara Lemlich, was elected its vice president and would serve as the organization’s chief organizer.\n\nThe Wage Earner’s Suffrage League prioritized giving a political voice to wage-earning women and sought to keep organizational control firmly within their hands, while also reaching out to immigrants and non-wage-earning women. The league’s founders agreed upon the principle framework of allowing only workers to become full voting members, ensuring the league would be for, and ran by, workers. Although it restricted full membership solely to workers, the Wage Earners Suffrage League did not reject the participation of other women altogether. Although it did not reject their participation, it did restrict their membership capacity, not allowing them to hold any sway in regard to the shaping of the league’s campaigns, literature, or speeches. Resulting from the league’s leaders heavy focus upon factories and immigrant neighborhoods as grounds for its outreach, the organization’s membership was decidedly working-class. While the majority of the league’s membership was from within the working-class, its small amount of non-working-class members provided most of the financial support that constituted the league’s budget. These non-working class members were termed not as members, but allies, and were permitted to attend the league’s meetings and assist with the league’s work. The Wage Earner’s Suffrage League chose was an affiliate with the National American Woman Suffrage Association. The Wage Earner’s Suffrage League identified itself as the labor wing of the National American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nThe league proved successful in spreading its message to unaffiliated working women, due in part to the league’s leaders targeting the same women workers they were unionizing and also to the ability of chief organizer Clara Lemlich, who was a skilled and passionate speaker, and often recited her speeches in Yiddish. The Wage Earner’s Suffrage League targeted both housewives ad wage-earning women through leaflets and pamphlets it distributed. These leaflets utilized rhetoric characterized by directness. Leaflets asked direct questions such as “Why are you paid less than a man? Why do you work in a firetrap? Why are your hours so long? Because you are a woman and have no vote. Votes make the law. Votes enforce the law. The law controls conditions. Women who want better conditions must vote.” The rhetoric utilized by the league framed suffrage as the key to the solving the issues facing wage-earning women. During the league’s first year, Leonora O'Reilly, Clara Lemlich, and Mollie Schepps spoke on a regular basis outside factories, as the shifts of workers were changing. The Wage Earner’s Suffrage League also passed out handbills in a direct outreach to working-class housewives seeking to publicize Suffrage Week from September 1–9, 1911. This handbill asked women questions such as, “Would you ensure child welfare for all children everywhere or only your own at home? Do you want pure food from cow to kitchen or in the kitchen only? Don’t you think equal pay for all women who toil should be a given rather than a privilege?” The reaction to the league’s distributed items, such as leaflets or handbills, is unknown due to the lack of any recorded responses. The league did not have the financial support to print more than an occasional leaflet or handbill, and this financial limitation led the league to rely not on printed materials, but on spoken word through its passionate orators. The league relied upon funding not only from its internal allies, but also the financial support of the middle class group the College Equal Suffrage League. The league held its meetings mainly outdoors and relied heavily on crowded New York street corners as its primary organizing tool. The league’s leaders, O’Reilly, Lemlich, and Schepps, also spoke at night in worker neighborhoods in an effort to target housewives returning from their shopping. The league made conscious efforts to reach out to wage-earning women as much as housewives, resulting in a general increase in pro-suffrage enthusiasm.\n\nThe Wage Earner’s Suffrage League’s largest public effort was that of the rally held at Cooper Union in 1912. The league staged a protest of the New York State legislature’s failure to issue a formal endorsement of women’s suffrage during the state legislature’s suffrage debate. Mary Ritter Beard of the National Woman’s Party had suggested that O'Reilly gather the leaders of the Wage Warner’s Suffrage League and respond to the statements made against suffrage. The league seized the opportunity to generate widespread interest and support, leafleting the factory districts in the weeks leading up to the rally. Mary Beard's suggestion resulted in the \nrally not being structured as speakers delivering speeches, but rather as several prominent wage-earning women issuing a direct and formal response to the arguments presented by state senators speaking out against suffrage. On the night of April 22, 1912 Cooper Union filled with an overflowing crowd of thousands, composed almost entirely of wage-earning women. The speakers at the Cooper Union rally reinforced the need for women’s independence in their individual responses. These responses centered upon statements made by senators regarding the protection of women from the vote, citing the need to preserve marital harmony, female morality, and femininity. Mollie Schepps recounted the treatment striking waistmakers received from the New York City police and judges, emphasizing its brutality and attacked the notion that equal wages between the sexes would erode the sanctity of marriage. Clara Lemlich attacked the notion that the vote was a burden and sought to respond to the notion that it would corrupt female morality.Rose Schneiderman issued a speech expanding upon varying notions of femininity and utilized a class-based approach to recommend that working women define femininity on their own terms. These speeches made by Schneiderman, Lemlich, and Schepps combined to offer a working class critique of female behavior presented through a growing perception of industrial feminism. Each speech sought to break down the argument of those opposing suffrage in an effort to highlight their manipulation of class and gender to oppress women. The Wage Earner’s Suffrage League presented the solution to ending this manipulation, framed as the vote, as they recommended that only suffrage could bring women full independence and allow them access to political power.\n\nThere are no further records of the Wage Earner’s Suffrage League’s existence following the rally at Cooper Union on April 22, 1912. According to historian Annelise Orleck, the dissipation of the league is believed to have come as a result of a combination of factors ranging from the organization lacking a full-time organizer, funding drying up, the firing of Clara Lemlich, and the departure of Rose Schneiderman to work for another suffrage organization in the summer of 1912. In its short existence, the Wage Earner’s Suffrage League sought to bring the suffrage movement and the labor movement together in an effort to give working women educative lessons through their political participation.\n\n"}
