{"id": "47891463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47891463", "title": "5-oxo-eicosatetraenoic acid", "text": "5-oxo-eicosatetraenoic acid\n\n5-Oxo-eicosatetraenoic acid (i.e. 5-oxo-6\"E\",8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetraenoic acid; also termed 5-oxo-ETE and 5-oxoETE) is a Nonclassic eicosanoid metabolite of arachidonic acid and the most potent naturally occurring member of the 5-HETE family of cell signaling agents. Like other cell signaling agents, 5-oxo-ETE is made by a cell and then feeds back to stimulate its parent cell (see Autocrine signaling) and/or exits this cell to stimulate nearby cells (see paracrine signaling). 5-Oxo-ETE can stimulate various cell types particularly human leukocytes but possesses its highest potency and power in stimulating the human eosinophil type of leukocyte. It is therefore suggested to be formed during and to be an important contributor to the formation and progression of eosinophil-based allergic reactions; it is also suggested that 5-oxo-ETE may also contribute inflammation, cancer cell growth, and other pathophysiological responses.\n\nIn the most common means for its production, cells make 5-oxo-ETE in a four step pathway that involves their stimulus-induced activation of the following pathway: a) the release of arachidonic acid (i.e. 5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z-eicosatetraenoic acid) from its storage sites in membrane phospholipids due to the activation of phospholipase A2 enzymes; b) oxygenation of this arachidonic acid with by activated arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (ALOX5) to form 5(\"S\")-hydroperoxy-6\"E\",8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetraenoic acid (5(\"S\")-HpETE); c) reduction of this 5(\"S\")-HpETE by ubiquitous cellular peroxidases to form 5(\"S\")-hydroxy-6\"E\",8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetraenoic acid (5(\"S\")-HETE); and (d) the oxidation of 5(\"S\")-HETE by a microsome-bound nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP)-dependent dehydrogenase enzyme viz., (5-Hydroxyeicosanoid dehydrogenase or 5-HEDH) to form 5-oxo-ETE: \n\na) Phospholipid-bound arachidonic acid → free arachidonic acid\n\nb) Free arachidonic acid + O → 5\"(S\")-HpETE\n\nc) 5\"(S)\"-HpETE → 5(\"S\")-HETE\n\nd) 5\"(S)\"-HETE + NADP formula_1 5-oxo-ETE + NADPH\n\n5-HEDH has little or no ability to metabolize the \"R\" stereoisomer of 5(\"S\")-HETE viz., 5(\"R\")-HETE, to 5-oxo-ETE. Furthermore, it acts in a fully reversible manner, readily converting 5-oxo-ETE back to 5(\"S\")-HETE. Since cells typically maintain very high levels of NADPH compared to their NADP levels, they generally have little or no ability to convert 5(\"S\")-HEE to 5-oxo-ETE, and when confronted with 5-oxo-ETE rapidly metabolize it to 5(\"S\")-HETE. However, cells undergoing aging, senescence, apoptosis, oxidative stress, or other conditions that raise their levels of reactive oxygen species (e.g. superoxide anion, oxygen radicals, and peroxides) either physiologically (e.g. human phagocytes engulfing bacteria) or pathologically (e.g. oxidatively challenged B-lymphocytes) use up NADP, have low NADPH/NADP ratios, and therefore readily convert 5(\"S\")-HETE to 5-oxo-ETE. Thus, many pathological conditions oxidative stress such as occurs in rapidly growing cancers may be important promoters of 5-oxo-ETE accumulation in vivo.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE can also be made form either 5(\"S\")-HpETE (and possibly 5(\"R\")-HpEPE) by the action of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes such as CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, and CYP2S1. from 5(\"S\")-HETE (and probably 5(\"R\")-HETE) by the non-enzymatic attack with heme or various other dehydrating agents; It may also form by the conversion of 5-(\"S\")-HpETE or 5(\"R\")-HpETE to 5-oxo-ETE due to the action of a mouse macrophage 50-60 kilodalton cytosolic protein. The contribution of the latter three pathways to the physiological production of 5-oxo-ETE has not been fully evaluated.\n\nAn isomer of 5-oxo-ETE, 5-oxo-(7\"E\",9\"E\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\")-eicosatetraenoic acid, forms non-enzymatically as a byproduct of hydrolyses of the 5-lipooxgenase metabolite, Leukotriene A4. This byproduct differs from 5-oxo-ETE not only in the position and geometry of its double bounds but also in its activity: it stimulates human neutrophils apparently by acting on one or more LTB4 receptors rather than OXER1.\n\nHuman neutrophils, monocytes, eosinophils, B-lymphocytes, dendritic cell, platelets, airway epithelial cells and smooth muscle cells, vascular endothelial cells, and skin keratinocytes have been found and/or suggested to make 5-oxo-ETE from endogenous or exogenous 5-HETE, particularly under conditions of oxidative stress; cell lines derived from human cancers such as those from breast, prostate, lung, colon, and various types of leukemia have likewise been shown to be producers of 5-oxo-ETE.\n\nCells of one type may release the 5(\"S\")-HETE that they make to nearby cells of a second type which then oxidize the 5(\"S\")-HETE to 5-oxo-ETE. This transcellular production typically involves the limited variety of cell types that express active 5-lipoxygenase, lack HEDH activity because of their high levels of NADPH compared to NADP levels, and therefore accumulate 5(\"S\")-HETE, not 5-oxo-ETE, upon stimulation; this 5(\"S\")-ETE can leaves these cells, enter various cell types that possess 5-HEDH activity along with lower NADPH to NADP levels, and thereby is converted to 5-oxo-ETE. This transcellular production of 5-oxo-eicosatetraenoates has been demonstrated in vitro with human neutrophils as the 5(\"S\")-HETE producing cells and human PC-3 prostate cancer cells, platelets, and monocyte-derived dendritic cells as the oxidizing cells. It is theorized that this transcellular metabolism occurs in vivo and provides a mechanism for controlling 5-oxo-ETE production by allowing it to occur or be augmented at sites were 5-lipoxygenase-containg cells congregate with cell types possessing 5-HEDH and favorable NADPH/NADP ratios; such sites, it is theorized, might include those involving allergy, inflammation, oxidative stress, and rapidly growing cancers.\n\nAs indicated in the previous section, 5-oxo-ETE is readily converted to 5(\"S\")-HETE by 5-HEDH in cells containing very low NADPH/NADP ratios. Human neutrophils, an important model cell for investigating 5-oxo-ETE production, take up 5-oxo-ETE and reduce it to 5(\"S\")-HETE; they also form appreciable amounts of 5(\"S\"),20-dihydroxy-ETE and small amounts of 5-oxo,20-hydroxy-ETE probably by the action of the ω-hydroxylase cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP453A on 5(\"S\")-HETE and 5-oxo-ETE, respectively. The cells also incorporate the 5(\"S\")-HETE product of 5-oxo-ETE but little or no 5-oxo-ETE itself as an ester into their various phospholipid and glycerolipid pools; however, isolated neutrophil plasma membranes, which lack appreciable 5-HEDH activity, do esterify 5-oxo-ETE into these lipid pools.\n\nSeveral other pathways can metabolize 5-oxo-ETE. First, human eosinophils use Arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase-1 (or possibly Arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase-2 to metabolize 5-oxo-ETE to 5-oxo-15-(\"S\")-hydroperoxy-ETE which is rapidly reduced to 5-oxo-15(\"S\")-hydroxy-ETE; 5-oxo-15(\"S\")-hydroxyl-ETE is about one-third as potent as 5-oxo-ETE in stimulating cells. Second, human platelets use 12-lipoxygenase to metabolize 5-oxo-ETE to 5-oxo-12(\"S\")-hydroperxy-eicosatetraenoat which is rapidly converted to 5-oxo-12(\"S\")-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoate (5-oxo-12)\"S\")-hydroxy-ETE); 5-oxo-12(\"S\")-hydroxyl-ETE is a weak antagonist of 5-oxo-ETE. Third, mouse macrophages use a) a cytochrome P450 enzyme to metabolize 5-oxo-ETE to 5-oxo-18-hydroxy-ETE (5-oxo-18-HETE) which is either attacked by a 5-keto-reductase (possibly 5-HEDH) to form 5,18-dihydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (5,18-diHETE) or by a Δ6-reductase to form 5-oxo-18-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid (5-oxo-18-HETrE) which is then reduced by a 5-keto-reductase (possibly 5-HEDH) to 5,18-dihydroxy-eicosatetrienoic acid (5,18-diHETrE); b) a cytochrome P450 enzyme converts 5-oxo-ETE to 5-oxo-19-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (5-oxo-19-HETE) which is then either reduced by a keto reductase (possibly 5-HEDH) to 5,19-dihydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (5,19-diHETE) or by a Δ6 reductase to 5-oxo-19-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid (5-oxo-19-HETrE); or c) leukotriene C4 synthase to metabolize 5-oxo-ETE to 5-oxo-7-glutathionyl-8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid (FOG7). FOG7 simulates cells by a different mechanism than 5-oxo-ETE; the biological activity of the other mouse-derived metabolites has not been reported.\n\nStudies in human neutrophils first detected a plasma membrane-localized site which reversibly bound 5-oxo-ETE and had the attributes of a Gi alpha subunit-linked G protein-coupled receptor based on the ability of 5-oxo-ETE to activate this class of membrane G proteins by a pertussis toxin-sensitive mechanism. Subsequently, this receptor was cloned by several groups who termed it the oxoeicosanoid receptor 1 (OXER1), OXE, OXE-R, hGPCR48, HGPCR48, or R527 (its gene is termed \"OXE1\" or \"OXER1\"), and found it coupled with and activated the G protein complex composed of the Gi alpha subunit (Gαi) and G beta-gamma complex (Gβγ). Based on the presence of its mRNA, the OXER1 mRNA is highly expressed in human blood eosinophils, neutrophils, spleen, lung, liver and kidney and at lower levels in human basophils, monocytes, lung macrophages, various cancer cell lines, and an adrenocortical cell line. Orthologs of OXER1 are found in various mammalian species including cats and opossums as well as several species of fish; however, mice and rats lack a clear ortholog of OXER1. When bound by 5-oxo-ETE or other 5-HETE family member, OXER1 triggers this G protein complex to dissociate into its Gαi and Gβγ components, with Gβγ being responsible for activating many of the signal pathways that lead to the cellular functional responses elicited by the 5-HETE family of agonists. The cell-activation pathways stimulated by OXER1 include those evoking rises in cytosolic calcium ion levels as well as those activating MAPK/ERK, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, cytosolic Phospholipase A2, PI3K/Akt, protein kinase C beta (PKCβ), and (PKCε). Most actions of the 5-HETE family of agonists appear mediated by OXER1. Some of their actions, however, appear to be OXER1-independent, as indicated below.\n\nMouse MA-10 cells respond to 5-oxo-ETE but lack OXER1. It has been suggested that these cells' responses to 5-oxo-ETE are mediated by an ortholog to OXER1, mouse niacin receptor 1, Niacr1, which is a G protein-coupled receptor for niacin, or, alternatively, by one or more of the mouse hydroxycarboxylic acid (HCA) family of the G protein-coupled receptors, HCA1 (GPR81), HCA2 (GPR109A), and HCA3 (GPR109B), which are G protein-coupled receptors for fatty acids.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE and 5-oxo-15(\"S\")-hydroxy-ETE but not 5-hydroxy members of the 5-HETE family such as 5-(\"S\")-HETE activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation does not proceed through OXER1; rather, it involves the direct binding of the oxo analog to PPARγ with 5-oxo-15-(\"S\")-hydroxy-ETE being more potent than 5-oxo-ETE in binding and activating PPARγ. The Activation of OXER1 receptor and PPARγ by the oxo analogs can have opposing effects on cell function. For example, 5-oxo-ETE-bound OXER1 stimulates whereas 5-oxo-ETE-bound PPARγ inhibits the proliferation of various types of human cancer cell lines; this results in 5-oxo-ETE and 5-oxo-15-(\"S\")-HETE having considerably less potency than anticipated in stimulating these cancer cells to proliferate relative to the potency of 5-(\"S\")-HETE, a relationship not closely following the potencies of these three compounds in activating OXER1.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE relaxes pre-contracted human bronchi by a mechanism that does not appear to involve OXER1 but is otherwise undefined.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE is a potent in vitro stimulator and/or enhancer of chemotaxis (i.e. directional migration) and, depending on the cell type, various other responses such as degranulation (i.e. release of granule-bound enzymes), oxidative metabolism (i.e. generation of reactive oxygen species), and production of mediators such as various arachidonic acid metabolites and platelet-activating factor in human eosinophils, basophils, neutrophils, and monocytes. Furthermore, the injection of 5-oxo-ETE into the skin of humans causes the local accumulation of circulating blood cells, particularly eosinophils but also to lesser extents neutrophils and monocyte-derived macrophages. The activity of 5-oxo-ETE on the two cell types known to be involved in allergy-based inflammation, eosinophils and basophils, suggests that it may be involved in promoting allergic reactions possibly by attracting through chemotaxis these cells to nascent sites of allergy and/or through stimulating these cells to release granule-bound enzymes, reactive oxygen species, or other promoters of allergic reactions. 5-Oxo-ETE's activity on human cells involved in non-allergic inflammatory diseases viz., neutrophils and monocytes, as well as its ability to attack these cell types to the skin of humans suggest that 5-oxo-ETE may also be involved in the broad category of non-allergic inflammatory diseases including those involving host defense against pathogens.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE contracts smooth muscle and organ-cultured bronchi isolated from guinea pigs but relaxes bronchi isolated from human lung; the relaxation of human bronchi caused by 5-oxo-ETE may not involve its OXER1. These results suggest that 5-oxo-ETE is not directly involved in the bronchoconstriction) that occurs in eosinophil-based allergic asthma reactions in humans.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE (or other 5-HETE family member) stimulates the growth and/or survival of human cell lines derived from cancers of the prostate, breast, lung, ovary, colon and pancreas These preclinical studies suggest that 5-oxo-ETE (or other 5-HETE family member) may contribute to the cited cancers progression in humans.\n\n5-oxo-ETE stimulates human H295R adrenocortical cells to increase transcription of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein messenger RNA and produce aldosterone and progesterone by an apparent OXER1-dependent pathway.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE induces an isotonic volume reduction in guinea pig intestinal crypt epithelial cells.\n\n5-Oxo-ETE and another potential mediator of human allergic reactions, platelet-activating factor, act in synergy in stimulating human eosinophils and neutrophils: the combined agents elicit responses that are greater than the simple sum of their individual actions and do so at relatively low. 5-Oxo-ETE also greatly increases the potencies of complement component 5a, LTB4, and FMLP in stimulating human eosinophils to degranulate and its degranulating activity is greatly increase by pretreating human eosinophils with granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor or human neutrophils with either the latter cytokine or with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, tumor necrosis factor α, or various nucleotides including ATP. Pretreament of eosinophils with interleukin 5 (a key mediator in eosinophil activation) also increases their in vitro chemotactic response to 5-oxo-ETE. 5-Oxo-ETE also acts in synergy with two chemokines, CCL2 and CCL8, in stimulating monocyte chemotaxis. The interactions of 5-oxo-ETE with these mediators of allergy (e.g. platelet-activating factor, interleukin 5) in eosinophils further suggests that it plays a role in allergic diseases while its interactions with mediators of inflammatory reactions (e.g. tumor necrosis factor α, the colony stimulating factors, and the two CCL chemokines) in neutrophils and monocytes further suggest that it plays a role in inflammatory responses and host defense mechanisms.\n\nEssentially all of the studies on 5-oxo-ETE's activities and target cells, similar to those on other members of the 5(\"S\")-HETE family of agonists, are best classified as pre-clinical development studies: they have not yet been determined to be important in human pathophysiology. Translation studies are needed to learn if the preclinical studies implicating 5-Oxo-ETE and other 5(\"S\")-HETE family members in allergic diseases, inflammatory diseases, cancer, steroid production, bone remodeling, parturition, and other pathophysiological events, as outlined here and on the 5-HETE page, are relevant to humans and therefore of clinical significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "21427063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21427063", "title": "Africa Cataract Project", "text": "Africa Cataract Project\n\nThe Africa Cataract Project (ACP) is a mission of Turkish NGO IHH in Africa to prevent blindness. The project aims at performing 100.000 free cataract surgery operations in ten African countries: Sudan, Ethiopia, Somalia, Chad, Niger, Togo, Benin, Ghana, Mali, and Burkina Faso. Volunteer Turkish surgeons and nurses take part in the project and travel to African countries for surgery. One of the objectives of the program is to offer free eye care for needy people. The Turkish International Cooperation and Development Agency and Turkey's and Sudan's Ministries of Health are supporting the project. All surgeries are broadcast live on the project website and the IHH website.\n\nAfrica Cataract Project offers a training program for local African surgeons on phaco technology which is not well known in Africa yet. \n\n"}
{"id": "2522902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522902", "title": "American Medical Student Association", "text": "American Medical Student Association\n\nThe American Medical Student Association (AMSA), founded in 1950 and based in Washington, D.C., is the oldest and largest independent association of physicians-in-training in the United States. AMSA is a student-governed, national organization. They have a membership of 68,000 medical students, premedical students, interns, medical residents and practicing physicians from across the country. \n\nAMSA's action committees and interest groups help expose medical students to information on subjects not generally covered in traditional curricula, and is the only major national medical organization in the US that accepts no sponsorship or funding from any pharmaceutical company.\n\nIn November 2007, AMSA leaders decided upon four strategic priorities:\n\nThe American Medical Student Association (AMSA) was founded in 1950, as the Student American Medical Association (SAMA), under the auspices of the American Medical Association (AMA). The main purpose of the organization was to provide medical students a chance to participate in organized medicine.\n\nThe late 1960s saw dramatic changes in the organization's objectives and philosophy. In 1967, AMSA established its independence from the AMA, became student-governed, and began to raise its own voice on a variety of socio-medical issues, including civil rights, abortion rights, universal health care and Vietnam.\n\nIn a collaboration with medical educators that began in 1968, AMSA proposed numerous reforms and model curricula, to transform medical education in order to make the profession more responsive to community and societal needs. AMSA was also instrumental in the introduction of the original Family Practice Act of 1970, and supported legislation establishing the National Health Service Corps.\n\nAMSA has led a campaign to reform medical resident work hours, long a controversial issue in the field. In 2001 AMSA joined the Committee of Interns & Residents and Public Citizen in filing a petition with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration asking for federal oversight of resident work hours as a matter of workplace safety. AMSA authored the Patient and Physician Safety and Protection Act of 2005, introduced by Senator Jon Corzine (S. 1297) and Representative John Conyers (H.R.1228). AMSA and the Committee of Interns & Residents also jointly maintain a website advocating for work hours reform called Hours Watch that presents the latest scientific research on the topic.\n\nIn addition to sponsoring events highlighting prospects for universal health care, medical technology and HIV/AIDS, AMSA also has organized the PharmFree Campaign to educate and train its members to interact professionally and ethically with the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nIn September, 2005, AMSA led the National Conference on the Financing of Undergraduate Medical Education, an event that brought together legislators, medical organizations, medical students and others to address skyrocketing medical debt.\n\nEach spring, AMSA's Annual Convention brings together nearly 1,500 physicians-in-training and leaders in medical education and health policy.\n\nThe location of the convention alternates from year to year between the DC metro area and other locations. At the Convention, are renowned Keynote Speakers and many healthcare related exhibitors.\n\nAlso, at convention the House Of Delegates (HOD) meets. The HOD is where AMSA's members take ownership of the Association. As AMSA's official policy-making body, the HOD is a delegation of AMSA members from each local medical chapter who meet once a year at the Annual Convention to vote on AMSA's policies and to elect our national officers. The HOD is open to all members of AMSA to speak and vote. The members debate the issues, make the amendments and cast the votes that shape AMSA's policies. Any member of AMSA has the ability to write and submit resolutions to the HOD.\n\nAMSA has ten Action Committees (AC's). While the Board of Trustees governs the organization, the Action Committees produce ideas and projects. They promote these areas of interest and associated projects to AMSA members on national, regional and local levels and are integral in helping AMSA maintain its view of medicine.\n\n\nIn 2008, IFMSA-USA merged with AMSA. IFMSA-USA used to be the US representative to the International Federation of Medical Students' Associations (IFMSA). Since the merger, AMSA now is able to offer international exchanges for research and clinical electives to nearly 70 countries through SCORE and SCOPE respectively. The exchanges are available to medical student members. Research exchanges are also available to select pre-med members. AMSA also now sends a delegation of students to the semi-annual IFMSA General Assemblies (GA) of IFMSA.\n\nThe PharmFree project, established by the AMSA in 2002, was created from the belief that the medical profession needs more detachment from pharmaceutical firms. Spending on marketing to physicians, which includes gifts to med students, rose from $12.1 billion in 1999 to $22 billion in 2003. Based on the premise that taking gifts from pharmaceutical companies creates a conflict of interest for doctors, AMSA now urges both students and practising physicians to 'just say no' to all personal gifts from Pharmaceutical companies.\n\nThe PharmFree campaign has included a march on Pfizer offices in New York City, where members assembled at the firm's front doors and dumped thousands of pens marked with the company's logo on the doorstep. Additionally, under the leadership of then-President Leana Wen, AMSA started the Counterdetailing Campaign in 2005 to encourage physicians-in-training to educate practicing physicians about alternative sources of information regarding pharmaceuticals. As \"detailing\" is the concept of drug representatives selling biased information to physicians, AMSA came up with the concept of \"counterdetailing\" as an opposing concept, for students to bring physicians evidence-based sources of information. In May 2007, AMSA released the PharmFree Scorecard, the first to evaluate medical schools according to their pharmaceutical interaction policies. Of all the medical schools in the United States, five received a grade of “A,” which translates into comprehensive school policy that restricts pharmaceutical representatives to both the medical school campus and its academic medical centers. Forty schools received an “F” for their lack of policies or encouraging physicians-in-training to obtain information from drug representatives.\n\nAllies and supporters of this campaign include No Free Lunch, AARP, Consumers Union, the Medical Letter, and the National Physicians Alliance.\n\nAMSA Academy is a training ground for physician leaders, established by and for students. The Academy strives to empower medical students to effect change in medicine. Combining didactic with experiential learning, AMSA Academy courses take medical students through the core competencies of leadership and project implementation, while building on key principles of important topics in medicine.\n\nEach program fosters the value of health care must be patient-centered, effective, efficient, safe, equitable, and timely, as identified by the Institute of Medicine. AMSA identifies their mission as training physician leaders in order to transform the face of medicine.\n\nThe Foundation was established by AMSA in 1964 as a means to address issues in medical education and to provide low cost small emergency loans to medical students in need. In 1974, the Board of Trustees of the Association and the Board of Directors of the Foundation decided to broaden its role. Since then, the Foundation has functioned as the programming arm of AMSA.\n\nDuring its history, the AMSA Foundation has developed a national reputation for designing and conducting quality and innovative programming. It has managed over $75,000,000 of grant and contract funds during this period. Much of the organization's early work was performed under contract with the U.S. Public Health Service. From 1971 through 1980, the AMSA Foundation was the primary recruiter of physicians for the National Health Service Corps, Bureau of Medical Services and the Indian Health Service.\n\nThe AMSA Foundation has also worked extensively with private foundations and corporations on programs designed to augment physician development and innovations in medical education. The organization was one of the original innovators of interdisciplinary health team training for medical and health professions students-an initiative that has continued to this day. AMSA has also launched programs in primary care, complementary and alternative medicine, international health, health policy, HIV/AIDS education, substance abuse prevention, breast cancer prevention, health services management and end of life care for medical and other health professions students.\n\nAMSA was always led by students. The National President is elected by members to serve a one-year term during which he/she is based in AMSA's Reston offices. The President takes a year's leave from medical school in order to serve AMSA and its mission.\n\nAMSA also has staff that work in its Reston offices, including an executive director. In 2006, AMSA's long-time executive director, Paul R. Wright, retired.\n\nPast AMSA presidents have gone on to many leadership positions in the government and in academia.\n\nTo celebrate AMSA's 60th anniversary, a new logo was designed to commemorate the occasion. Importantly, the Rod of Asclepius has been incorporated into a shield, beside which \"AMSA\" is spelled out (using a custom font which differs from the original logo). The letters AMSA rest upon the fully spelled out name of the organization, using the font \"Today.\"\n\nThe crest contains four colours; from top right clockwise, they are and represent:\n\nThere is also a blazon as to the usage of the logo, including size, dimensions and colours. These can be found at AMSA's website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53700543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53700543", "title": "American Occupational Therapy Foundation", "text": "American Occupational Therapy Foundation\n\nThe American Occupational Therapy Foundation (AOTF) is a charitable, scientific and educational non-profit organization founded in 1965. Its purpose is to advance the science of occupational therapy to support people's full participation in meaningful life activities. The foundation is governed by a board of trustees and awards grants for scientific research and scholarships. It also publishes a scientific journal OTJR, Occupation, Participation and Health, indexed by the National Library of Medicine and others. It is based in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "8448476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8448476", "title": "Aortocaval compression syndrome", "text": "Aortocaval compression syndrome\n\nAortocaval compression syndrome is compression of the abdominal aorta and inferior vena cava by the gravid uterus when a pregnant woman lies on her back, i.e. in the supine position. It is a frequent cause of low maternal blood pressure (hypotension), which can be result in loss of consciousness and in extreme circumstances fetal demise.\n\nAortocaval compression is thought to be the cause of supine hypotensive syndrome. Supine hypotensive syndrome is characterized by pallor, tachycardia, sweating, nausea, hypotension and dizziness and occurs when a pregnant woman lies on her back and resolves when she is turned on her side.\n\nThe aorta and inferior vena cava are central vessels, the largest artery and vein. They supply blood to the heart, and the rest of the body. Thus, when there is compression due to the weight of the fetus, signs of shock (sweating, pallor, fast and weak pulse) may be experienced. Patients should be placed in a left lateral recumbent position and emergency help summoned immediately.\n\n"}
{"id": "5173548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5173548", "title": "Aparicio Méndez", "text": "Aparicio Méndez\n\nAparicio Méndez Manfredini (August 24, 1904 – June 27, 1988) was a Uruguayan political figure. He was a de facto President of Uruguay from 1976–1981 as a non-democratically elected authority of the Civic-military dictatorship (1973–1985).\n\nBorn in the northern city of Rivera, Méndez was a member of the National Party, traditionally strong in the interior of the country from whence he originated. He built up a reputation as an expert in administrative law.\n\nMéndez served as Health Minister from 1961–1964.\n\nIn addition to his political life, Méndez was a close personal friend of the Spanish classical guitarist Andrés Segovia. Segovia lived in Montevideo during the 1940s, and came into contact with Méndez during this time. Segovia composed two original pieces for Méndez, the Anecdote #4 (published in \"Guitar Review Magazine\" in 1947), and the Preludio #8 (subtitled \"on a theme by Aparicio Méndez\") which was published by Edizioni Musicali Bèrben in 1998.\n\nMéndez was one of various civilian political figures who participated in the civilian-military administration which took office following President Juan Maria Bordaberry's coup in 1973 at a time of great social tension. It was as one who had built a reputation for reliability with its military participants that he subsequently served as President for five years.\n\nIn 1980, Méndez's government held a constitutional referendum, the free nature of which was underlined by the fact that the electorate rejected the government's proposals.\n\nMéndez died in Montevideo in 1988. Some would argue that, in agreeing to serve as President with military support, Aparicio Méndez was effectively repudiating the principles of the National Party with which he had been associated. Others would point out that Méndez was far from alone among the various civilian party political figures who participated in the Civic-military dictatorship (1973–1985), and that he presided over a free referendum.\n\n"}
{"id": "30510768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30510768", "title": "Capital punishment in South Africa", "text": "Capital punishment in South Africa\n\nCapital punishment in South Africa was abolished on 6 June 1995 by the ruling of the Constitutional Court in the case of \"S v Makwanyane\", following a five-year and four-month moratorium since February 1990.\n\nThe standard method for carrying out executions was hanging, sometimes of several convicts at the same time. Mandatory death penalty for murder was abolished in 1935. At the same time, criminal justice saw an increased racialisation in disfavour of the non-white majority, who represented the vast majority of accused and convicted in capital cases. Hanging was maintained following the instatement of a republic in 1961. At approximately the same time South Africa saw mounting international criticism against purposely political executions of anti-apartheid activists convicted of violent crimes, mainly of blacks, but in some cases of whites, such as John Frederick Harris in 1965.\n\nThe 1980s saw a rapid increase in the number of executions; 164 in 1987 alone (an official tally higher than that of any other country, including the People's Republic of China and Iran). Since 1959, the South African government officially performed 2,949 hangings (14 of women), including 1,123 in the 1980s. Out of more than one hundred South Africans executed in 1988, only three were white. Despite the grim statistics, not all capital cases ended with execution; of 83 black South Africans convicted of killing whites between June 1982 and June 1983 some 38 were hanged, as well as one white convicted of killing a white (out of 52). Executions were carried out in Pretoria Central Prison; condemned prisoners were held in a section of the prison called \"The Pot\".\n\nThe last execution carried out by the South African government was the hanging of Solomon Ngobeni in November 1989. The last woman executed was Sandra Smith on 2 June the same year along with her boyfriend Yassiem Harris, in all cases following a murder conviction. In February 1990, a moratorium was declared by President De Klerk. Two further executions were, however, carried out in the nominally independent \"homelands\" of Boputhatswana and Venda in 1990 and 1991 respectively.\n\nAlthough the death penalty was abolished in 1995, opinion polls suggest significant public support for its reinstatement. A 2014 poll in South Africa found that 76 percent of millennium generation South Africans support re-introduction of the death penalty.\n\nThere are a number of parties in South Africa that currently support the return of the death penalty. They are the National Party South Africa, the African Christian Democratic Party, Economic Freedom Fighters and the National Conservative Party of South Africa.\n\n2018 saw growing calls for the return of the death penalty. On 20 July the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) stated that the time had come to discuss the possibility of reinstating the death penalty in South Africa, and on the 8th of August the National Freedom Party called for the restoration of the death penalty in South Africa after the death of Khensani Maseko, in a call similar to that of the IFP weeks before.\n\n"}
{"id": "3261686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261686", "title": "Chilean pharmaceutical policy", "text": "Chilean pharmaceutical policy\n\nThe Chilean Pharmaceutical Policy was an attempt in the 1960s and 1970s to introduce a rational national pharmaceuticals policy. Chile was perhaps the first country in the world to introduce the concept of a limited number of essential drugs. \n\nIn 1965 the government of President Eduardo Frei took measures to rationalise drug supply and use and in 1967, a national formulary with a limited list of drugs came into being. In 1970, Salvador Allende was elected to power and rationalisation of the pharmaceutical supply system continued. \n\nThe next step was to organise centralised bulk procurement. The first international tender for raw materials was called in 1971. However, the pharmaceutical industry struck back: in the three months following the call for tender, widely used drugs, including analgesics and antibiotics, disappeared from the market. The manufacturers had cut their production. They agreed to replenish the market within one week only if the international tenders were called off. \n\nIn 1972, the government was forced to succumb and called off the tenders. In 1973, the government of Allende was toppled and the first essential drug programme hitherto known was dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "11908801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11908801", "title": "Chukwu octuplets", "text": "Chukwu octuplets\n\nThe Chukwu octuplets were the first set of octuplets live-born in the United States in recorded history. The birth happened in 1998.\n\nThe six girls and two boys were born in December 1998 at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston, Texas. Their parents — mother, Nkem Chukwu (then 27) and father, Iyke Louis Udobi (then 41) — are both Nigerian-born American citizens.\n\nAll weighed under two pounds at the time of birth. The first born, Ebuka, was delivered on December 8, 15 weeks premature. The remaining 7 octuplets were born by Caesarean section on December 20, 13 weeks premature. The smallest of the octuplets, Odera, died on December 27, a week after birth (she was the lightest of the 8 babies, weighing just over 300 grams (10 oz). The obstetrician was Brian Kirshon, a well-known physician practicing in Houston.\n\nThe seven remaining octuplets celebrated their 10th birthday in Houston on December 20, 2008, in the company of volunteers who helped in their early years. The five girls and two boys are reported to be \"normal, active and bright fourth-graders.\"\n\nThe babies were named as follows:\n\nEarly January 2009, Nkem Chukwu and her husband, Iyke Louis Udobi, appeared January 27, 2009, for the first time in 10 years on national TV on ABC's \"Good Morning America\" in a prerecorded segment where they commented on the birth of the new Suleman octuplets. The next day, January 28, 2009, the whole family along with grandmother Janet Chukwu appeared on NBC's \"The Today Show\", which was the first time the octuplets appeared on national television since their first birthdays. Later that day, they were whisked to the Associated Press (AP) World Headquarters for a TV interview for the world newswires. On Monday February 2, they also appeared on the \"Larry King Live\" show in a segment titled \"Octuplet Outrage\" focusing on the worldwide coverage generated by Nadya Suleman's 14 children and the ethical and medical controversy. On February 9, 2009, Nkem and Iyke Chukwu appeared on Radio One's talk show \"The Mo'Nique show\". They also appeared Sunday February 15, 2009, on a local TV segment on KHOU-TV, Houston, Texas, on a family update. They also appeared on CNN's AC360 on February 18, 2009. The family Publicist, Kemi Omololu-Olunloyo, told media that Nkem Chukwu only wanted to address the health and well-being of the Suleman octuplets rather than the controversy about the number of children Suleman had. Nkem Chukwu later addressed the Nadya Suleman octuplet row with Randi Kaye of CNN's \"Anderson Cooper 360\" show on February 18, 2009.\n\nOn February 2, 2009, Nkem Chukwu released the statement:\n\nThe Chukwu octuplets embarked on a world tour themed \"Promoting Healthy Families\". The tour, which began in mid-2009 and included the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, England ,and the parents' native Nigeria, included visits to TV talk shows, health clinics, summer camps, and supermarket seminars on large families for the children and speaking engagements at prenatal and postnatal clinics for Nkem. In a March 18, 2009, interview in \"The Daily Sentinel\", Iyke Louis and Nkem stated said that they did not intend to have so many children but accepted the children as a gift from God. Several projects are in the works for the Chukwus, including a book, magazine deals, and even a possible documentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "5310412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5310412", "title": "David Sharp (mountaineer)", "text": "David Sharp (mountaineer)\n\nDavid Sharp (15 February 1972 – 15 May 2006) was an English mountaineer who died near the summit of Mount Everest. His death caused controversy and debate, because he was passed by a number of other climbers heading to and returning from the summit as he was dying, although a number of others did try to help him.\n\nSharp had previously summitted Cho Oyu and was noted as being a talented rock climber, who seemed to acclimatize well, and was known for being in good humor around mountaineering camps. He had appeared briefly in season one of the television show \"\", which was filmed the same season as his ill-fated expedition to Everest.\n\nHe had a degree from the University of Nottingham and pursued climbing as a hobby. He had worked for an engineering firm and took time off to go on adventures and climbing expeditions, but had been planning to start work as a school teacher in the autumn of 2006.\n\nDavid Sharp was born in Harpenden, near London, and later attended Prior Pursglove College and the University of Nottingham. He graduated with a Mechanical Engineering degree in 1993. He worked for the Global security company QinetiQ. In 2005 he quit this job and took a teacher training course, and was planning to start work as a teacher in the autumn of 2006. David Sharp was also an experienced and accomplished mountaineer, and had climbed some of the world's tallest mountains including Cho Oyu in the Himalayas. Sharp was more of a purist related to mountaineering, and did not believe in using a guide for mountains he was familiar with, local climbing assistance or artificial enhancements, such as high altitude drugs or supplementary oxygen, to reach the top of a mountain.\n\nWhile growing up in England, Sharp climbed Roseberry Topping. At university, he was a member of the Mountaineering Club.\n\nSharp also took a six-month sabbatical from his job to go on a backpacking trip through South America and Asia.\n\nIn May 2002, Sharp summited the Cho Oyu with Jamie McGuinness and Tsering Pande Bhote. Cho Oyu is the sixth highest peak in the world and is near Mount Everest. The leader of the Cho Oyu expedition, impressed with Sharp's strength, acclimatization abilities, and rock climbing talent, invited him to join an expedition to Everest the next year.\n\nIn 2001, Sharp went on an expedition to Gasherbrum II, an mountain located in the Karakoram, on the border between Gilgit–Baltistan province, Pakistan, and Xinjiang, China. The expedition, led by Henry Todd, did not summit due to bad weather.\n\nIn 2002, Sharp went on an expedition to Cho Oyu, an peak in the Himalayas, with a group led by Richard Dougan and Jamie McGuinness of the Himalayan Project. They did make it to the summit, but one member died from falling into a crevasse; this opened up a slot on the group's trip to Everest the next year. Dougan regarded Sharp as a strong climber, but noted that he was tall and skinny, possessing a light frame with little body fat; in cold-weather mountaineering, body fat can be critical to survival.\n\nSharp's first Mount Everest expedition was in 2003 with a group led by British climber Richard Dougan. The party also included Terence Bannon, Martin Duggan, Stephen Synnott, and Jamie McGuinness. Only Bannon and McGuinness reached the summit, but the group incurred no fatalities. Dougan noted that Sharp had acclimatized well and was their strongest team member. In addition, Sharp was noted for being a pleasant person at camp and had a talent for rock climbing. However, when Sharp started to get frostbite on the group's ascent, most of the group agreed to turn back with him from the summit.\n\nDougan and Sharp helped a struggling Spanish climber who was heading up at that time, and gave him some extra oxygen. Sharp lost some of his toes to frostbite on this climb (including the big toe on his left foot), which led him to buy top-of-the line Millet boots for the 2004 season.\nIn 2004, Sharp joined a Franco-Austrian expedition to the north side of Mount Everest, climbed to , but did not reach the summit. Sharp could not keep up with the others and stopped before the First Step. The expedition's leader was Hugues d’Aubarede, a French climber who was later killed in the 2008 K2 disaster (his third attempt to climb that mountain), but who became, on this 2004 expedition, the 56th French person to summit Everest. D'Aubarede's group reached the summit on the morning of 17 May and included Austrians Marcus Noichl, Paul Koller, and Fredrichs \"Fritz\" Klausner as well as Nepalis Chhang Dawa Sherpa, Lhakpa Gyalzen Sherpa, and Zimba Zangbu Sherpa (also known as Ang Babu). When Sharp died in 2006, d'Aubarede was on an expedition to K2.\n\nD'Aubarede said Sharp disagreed with him that it was wrong to climb alone and to attempt summiting without using supplementary oxygen. This is confirmed by Sharp's emails to other climbers in which he stated he did not believe in using extra oxygen. He joined four climbers on this expedition, so Sharp relented on that point of disagreement, but only for a time, as he would return in 2006 for his solo attempt. As a result of his 2004 attempt, Sharp incurred frostbite on his fingers during the expedition.\n\nTwo years later during the 2006 climbing season, Sharp returned to Everest a third time in an attempt to reach the summit on a solo climb arranged through Asian Trekking. However, the attempt ultimately cost him his life on 15 May 2006. Sharp was climbing alone, and had intended to attempt reaching the summit without using supplementary oxygen, which is considered to be extremely risky even for very strong acclimatized mountain climbers or Sherpas. However, Sharp apparently did not consider it a challenge to climb Everest with supplementary oxygen.\nSharp was climbing with a bare-bones \"basic services\" package from Asian Trekking that cost Sharp only about US$7,000 which does not offer support after a certain altitude is reached on the mountain or a Sherpa to climb with as a partner, although this option was available to Sharp for an additional fee. He was grouped with 13 other independent climbers – including Vitor Negrete, Thomas Weber, and Igor Plyushkin who also died attempting to summit that year – on the \"International Everest Expedition\". This package only provided a permit, a trip into Tibet, oxygen equipment and then transportation, food, and tents up to the Mount Everest \"Advance Base Camp\" (ABC) at an elevation of about . The group Sharp was with was not really an \"expedition\" and had no leader, although it is considered good climbing ethics that members of the group make some effort to keep track of each other.\n\nBefore Sharp booked his trip with Asian Trekking, his friend Jamie McGuinness, an experienced climber and guide, had invited him to join his organized expedition for only US$1,000 more than Sharp was paying Asian Trekking. Normally, McGuinness's expedition fee ranged from US$20,000 to $30,000, and Sharp would have realized a discount of more than US$10,000. Sharp acknowledged this as a good deal, but he would be tied into working with a group and would not be able to do things independently and climb at his own pace, so he declined the offer. Critically, Sharp opted to climb alone without a climbing Sherpa, without sufficient supplementary oxygen (reportedly only two bottles, which is only enough for about 8 to 10 hours of climbing at high altitude) and without even a radio to call for help if he did encounter problems.\n\nSharp was transported by vehicle to the Base Camp and then his equipment was transported by yak train to the Advance Base Camp, as part of the Asian Trekking \"basic services\" package, where he remained for five days to acclimatize to the altitude. He then began making several trips up and down the mountain to set up and stock his upper camps and further acclimatize himself. Sharp likely set out from a camp high on the mountain below the northeast ridge to make a summit attempt during the late evening of 13 May 2006, and reportedly only had a very limited supply of supplementary oxygen he intended to use only in an emergency. Sharp either reached the summit or turned back near the summit to descend very late in the day on 14 May 2006, and was forced to camp out exposed, or \"bivouac\", during his descent in the dark at about under a rock overhang known as Green Boots' Cave. There he was overcome by the elements without any remaining supplementary oxygen, possibly combined with equipment problems, on one of the coldest nights of the season.\n\nSharp's predicament was not immediately known for several reasons: he was not climbing with an expedition that would monitor climbers' locations; he had not told anyone beforehand of his summit attempt (although other climbers spotted him on his ascent); he did not have a radio or satellite phone with him to let anyone know where he was or that he was in trouble; and two other more inexperienced climbers from his group went missing at around the same time. One of the two missing climbers was Malaysian Ravi Chandran, who was eventually found but required medical attention after getting frostbite.\n\nSome members of the group of climbers Sharp was with, including George Dijmarescu, figured out that Sharp was missing when he did not return later in the evening on 15 May 2006 and there were no reports of anyone seeing him. However it was not known where he could be. Sharp was a more experienced climber who had previously turned around attempting to summit when he started experiencing problems, and it was surmised that Sharp likely crawled into an unoccupied tent at one of the higher camps or decided to bivouac somewhere higher up on Everest, so his failure to return to camp did not initially cause serious concern. High-altitude bivouacs are known to be very risky, but are sometimes recommended in certain extreme situations; Mike Rheinberger and Mark Whetu had summited and successfully camped at high altitude just below the summit in 1994, as documented in the 1995 film \"Mount Everest – The Summit of Dreams\". However, Rheinberger became overcome by altitude sickness and died during the descent on the following day, and Whetu barely made it down, suffering from severe frostbite.\n\nSharp may have decided to bivouac or just rest at Green Boots' Cave due to the extreme cold and exhaustion, combined with problems with his equipment and no supplementary oxygen. He was likely also suffering some degree of altitude sickness due to a lack of supplementary oxygen. He was never able to get up and continue his descent, even with the help of other climbers and supplementary oxygen later in the morning on 15 May 2006, and he subsequently died in Green Boots' Cave.\n\nThe top of Everest is nearly 9000 m above sea level. The peak was officially recognized in 2010 to be at an elevation of with the usual presence of snow and ice. Above about , which is approaching the cruising altitude of pressurized commercial jetliners, the air pressure is so low that the amount of available oxygen to breathe is less than one-third than at sea level, and there are significantly lower ambient air temperatures. The lack of oxygen, in addition to the extreme cold, leaves climbers bewildered and very weak, makes them very susceptible to hypothermia or getting frostbite, and can cause them to succumb to altitude sickness (or Acute Mountain Sickness leading to HAPE or HACE) and pass out.\n\nEven using supplementary oxygen (with a mask connected to a tank of oxygen) only partially compensates for the thin air, and the only way that climbers experiencing the effects of altitude sickness can recover is to descend much lower as quickly as possible with supplementary oxygen. Above about is considered to be uninhabitable for any period of time as, physiologically, the human body is unable to survive such hypoxic conditions, much less adapt to them. Many climbers lose their lives due to the debilitating effects of very limited oxygen at high altitudes, and since the rescue of someone who is not mobile at high altitudes is extremely difficult, it is potentially fatal for the rescuer and the climber. Even for someone in trouble who is able to walk at high altitudes, rescue can be a monumental undertaking given that simple tasks, such as picking up a wrapper, can be a significant effort. However, the rescue of a stricken climber at high altitudes is sometimes possible, as the cases of Lincoln Hall and Usha Bista illustrate.\n\nIn late May 2006 Lincoln Hall (another Asian Trekking client) was rescued from a height of about on the northeast ridge, after being left by the four climbing Sherpas who were trying to rescue him. The Sherpas were running out of oxygen and could not get him down before nightfall, as at that time Hall was not mobile. After surviving the night (which was about 25 degrees Celsius warmer than the night of Sharp's bivouac), and regaining consciousness, Hall was rescued on the following day – involving over a dozen rested climbing Sherpas, about 40–50 bottles of oxygen for Hall, and taking over 20 hours. Hall descended in reasonably good health although suffering from frostbite and the lingering effects of altitude sickness. Hall ultimately lost the tips of his fingers and a toe to frostbite, but otherwise eventually fully recovered. However, similar to other successful high altitude rescues, Hall was able to walk even though he was suffering from exposure and altitude sickness.\n\nAlso, on 21 May 2007 Canadian climber Meagan McGrath initiated the successful high-altitude rescue of Nepali Usha Bista who was suffering the effects of altitude sickness on the south side of Everest at a height of about , just above the high camps at the South Col around high. McGrath realized Bista was in trouble and flagged down two other climbers to start assisting Bista, and called down to the high camps for additional climbers to assist. However, it was daytime and Bista was initially mobile. In addition, unlike where Sharp and Hall became incapacitated (around the First Step and above the Exit Cracks on the north side of Everest), Bista was discovered in trouble at a location where there were not very technical sections below to reach a higher camp where additional help was available. The rescue climbers were eventually able to help Bista descend down and then put her in a sleeping bag to drag her down to a location where further help was available.\n\nHowever, other rescue attempts of stricken climbers high on Everest who were not mobile have resulted in not only the death of the stricken climber, but also resulted in the death of those attempting to rescue them. For example, in 1996 climber Doug Hansen became incapacitated during a descent at a high elevation on the south side of Everest. Rob Hall, an experienced Everest climber and expedition guide with Hansen, was able to assist Hansen down to a point below the base of the Hillary Step on the south side around the South Summit, but could not continue due to Hansen being immobile and a severe storm, combined with Hall being exhausted and likely suffering from exposure from helping Hansen down, even though they had supplementary oxygen. Hall refused to leave Hansen, and instead requested that additional supplementary oxygen be brought up to them. Fellow expedition guide Andrew Harris, who was lower on the mountain, turned around in an attempt to reach Hansen and Hall with additional supplementary oxygen. However, the rescue attempt was not successful and resulted in death of Hansen, Hall and Harris.\n\nFor stricken climbers above some experienced climbers have said that if you cannot walk at such a high altitude, you might as well be on the moon in terms of a possible successful rescue. That is why the area above is referred to as the \"death zone\". Even attempting to move a dead climber's body takes significant effort, and the recovery of a dead climber's body at high altitude is a monumental effort at a very slow pace. The recovery sometimes must be abandoned, and risks the lives of those attempting the recovery since these attempts have resulted in additional deaths while just attempting to move a dead climber's body. That is why bodies of dead climbers high on Everest are left where they died or just moved off the main climbing routes.\n\nAlso, the human body's response to increasingly high altitudes is difficult to predict, regardless of prior instances of functioning at lower altitudes or previous experience at high altitudes. For example, Igor Plyushkin, a Snow Leopard award-winning climber (having summited all five mountains in the former Soviet Union), died on 22 May 2006 while attempting to summit Everest, despite being with a group who gave him extra oxygen and medicine at just . Another climber, Brazilian mountaineer Vitor Negrete, died on 19 May 2006, having written about his difficulties on his blog. Negrete had summited Everest In 2005, and was attempting to do so again, but without the aid of extra oxygen. Negrete was aware that Sharp had died as he set out on his own fatal summit climb. Just days after Sharp's demise, and after several unfortunate occurrences, he reached the summit alone — without oxygen, a sherpa, radio, or a satellite phone — but died during his descent. The fate of climbers like Negrete illustrates why climbers are advised to bring a radio, use bottled oxygen at higher altitudes and have at least one climbing partner: altitude sickness can occur suddenly and without warning, leaving a climber disoriented and \"nutty\".\n\nThe high altitudes of Everest can have a dramatic effect on the human body. One climber who summited Everest in 2016 described his coming back down this way:\n\nThere are significant risks associated with climbing into the \"death zone\" of Everest, which has claimed many lives, as well as many limbs. One survivor of the 1996 Mount Everest disaster, Beck Weathers, was left on the mountain exposed at a high altitude on the south side of Everest because he was overcome by the elements and initially could not walk any further or be rescued after descending to about during a storm following an unsuccessful summit attempt. He miraculously woke up later and was able to stumble into a nearby camp. Although it was a monumental effort to bring him further down the mountain and airlift him off the mountain by helicopter where that was possible at a lower altitude, he would ultimately lose his nose, parts of both feet and his hands due to frostbite, but he did survive. Afterwards, Weathers said that his view on climbing Everest had changed \"fairly dramatically. If you don’t have anyone who cares about you or is dependent on you, if you have no friends or colleagues, and if you’re willing to put a single round in the chamber of a revolver and put it in your mouth and pull the trigger, then yeah, it’s a pretty good idea to climb Everest.”\n\nIt is believed that Sharp set out to make a summit attempt during the evening of 13 May 2006. His high camp was just below the Northeast Ridge, and he needed to first climb what is referred to as the \"Exit Cracks\", and then traverse the Northeast Ridge including the Three Steps before being able to reach the summit, and then climb down to return to his high camp.\n\nAmerican climber and Himex guide Bill Crouse and his group encountered someone, later believed to be Sharp, at the base of the Third Step in the afternoon on 14 May 2006 as they descended from the summit, and then later during their descent saw him higher on the mountain. Other climbers had also observed a lone climber, later believed to be Sharp, beginning his ascent along the northeast ridge on the way up to the summit late in the day on 14 May 2006. Back at base camp, other climbers who knew Sharp felt he was experienced enough to turn back if he became fatigued or had a problem, as he had done in previous expeditions.\n\nSharp likely either reached the summit very late in the day on 14 May 2006 and then began to descend, or he turned back near the summit to descend very late in the day on 14 May 2006. Due to how late in the day Sharp was descending along with other potential problems, such as issues with his equipment (problems with his head lamp descending in the dark as well as frozen oxygen supply equipment reported by others later), along with potential exhaustion and running out of oxygen, Sharp apparently had to seek shelter on his way back down. The extreme cold that day, fatigue, lack of oxygen and darkness likely made a descent to the high camp very dangerous or just not possible for Sharp due to the circumstances.\n\nSharp ultimately died under a rock overhang below the summit along the Northeast Ridge known by climbers as \"Green Boots' Cave\" near the First Step at along the northeast ridge approach to the summit, sitting with arms clasped around his legs, next to and to the right of a green-booted body, who is commonly believed to be Indian climber Tsewang Paljor who died 10 years earlier in the same place in 1996, under somewhat similar circumstances related to seeking shelter in the harsh environment near the top of Everest, and whose body remained on the mountain. The overhang or \"cave\" at about is located alongside the main northeast climbing trail approximately below the summit and approximately above the high camps, commonly called Camp 4 above ABC, with the high camps located below the \"Exit Cracks\" that are just before the beginning of the Northeast Ridge route up to the summit.\n\nThe first climbers to actually encounter Sharp in the early morning on 15 May 2006 just after midnight in \"Green Boots' Cave\" were climbers making their summit push for later that day. Most of the climbers either did not notice Sharp in the dark, thought he was just another one of the dead bodies encountered climbing Everest, or thought he was almost dead and beyond help at such an extreme altitude to even attempt a rescue. After climbers on the northern Tibetan side of Everest passed the rock overhang or \"cave\" in which Sharp lay incapacitated, in the early morning on 15 May 2006 and later that day during their descents, they returned with a series of accounts and events that resulted in international media attention focused on Sharp's death and the climbers who saw him there.\n\nHimex (a truncated version of the full name \"Himalayan Experience\") organized several teams to climb Everest during the 2006 climbing season expedition. The first team was guided by mountain climber and guide Bill Crouse. At about 01:00 on 14 May 2006, Bill Crouse's expedition team passed by David Sharp on his way up to the summit during their own ascent. They passed at a location on the common North route by a spot known as the \"Exit Cracks\" This is on the north route above the last camps, or high camps, for groups on the ascent prior to reaching and then traversing what is referred to as the Northeast Ridge which includes ascending several \"steps\" prior to reaching the summit of Everest.\n\nAround 10:00 on the morning of 14 May 2006, Crouse's Himex team reached the summit, as recorded by the Himalayan Database. When Crouse's team descended, they saw Sharp again at the base of the Third Step around 11:00 on 14 May. By the time Crouse's expedition had descended to the Second Step, more than one hour later, they looked back to see that Sharp was above the Third Step, but was climbing very slowly and had only moved about .\n\nAnother source of reports about Sharp was a team of Turkish climbers. They left their high camp in the evening on 14 May 2006 at about 10:30 pm to attempt reaching the summit, and were essentially traveling in three separate groups. Late in the evening on 14 May to early morning on 15 May, the Turkish team members encountered Sharp in the dark while ascending. The first group encountered Sharp at around midnight, noticed he was alive but thought that he appeared to just be a climber taking a short break, and Sharp waved those Turkish team members on. Some time later the others who noticed Sharp thought he was just another dead climber high on the mountain, which are encountered high up on Everest where recovery of a dead climber's body is almost impossible due to the conditions. It is thought Sharp fell asleep between these two times. That Sharp wanted to sleep was noted by other climbers who encountered him later on, and a quote telling people that he wanted to sleep was reported in some news media stories.\n\nSome of the Turkish team summited early in the morning on 15 May 2006, and some of the team turned back near the summit due to difficulties one of the team members was having. The Turkish team members who turned back encountered Sharp again at about 7:00 am. One of them was the Turkish team leader, Serhan Pocan, who had previously passed Sharp in the night and thought Sharp was a climber who had recently died. In the daylight Pocan realized that Sharp was actually alive when he noticed movement of one of Sharp's arms, and also that Sharp was in serious trouble.\n\nThey observed that Sharp had no oxygen left, had serious frostbite and that some limbs were frozen. At that time, two of the Turkish team members stayed and attempted to assist him by giving him something to drink and tried to help him move. However, these members of the team were now running out of oxygen, so they left with the intent to get more oxygen and then return. The Turkish team's initial effort to help was complicated by their own problems trying to get Burçak Özoğlu Poçan down safely; she was a climber in their group having medical problems. The team leader placed radio calls to the rest of the team coming down from the summit about Sharp, and then continued descending with the Turkish climber who needed help. At about 8:30 am two other members of the Turkish team descending cleaned out Sharp's iced up mask to try and give him some oxygen, but they started to run out of oxygen themselves and had to descend. The remaining Turkish team members later attempted to further help Sharp along with other Himex expedition members.\n\nThe vanguard of the second team of Himex climbers included Max Chaya, New Zealand double-amputee Mark Inglis, Wayne Alexander (who designed Inglis' prosthetic climbing legs), Discovery cameraman Mark Whetu, and experienced climbing guide Mark Woodward along with their Sherpas including renowned climbing Sherpa Phurba Tashi. The team left their high camp around late in the evening near midnight on 14 May 2006, with Chaya and the Sherpa he was climbing with out in front by about a half hour.\n\nAt about 1:00 am in the bitterly cold early morning of 15 May 2006, Woodward and his group (including Inglis, Alexander, Whetu and some Sherpas) encountered Sharp, who Woodward knew shouldn't be there. He wasn't conscious or moving, and had severe frostbite, but they could see that he was breathing. Woodward noticed Sharp had thin gloves and no oxygen, and indicated that they yelled at Sharp to get up, get moving and follow the headlamps back to the high camps. Woodward shined a headlamp in Sharp's eyes, but Sharp was unresponsive.\n\nWoodward thought he was almost dead and in a hypothermic coma, commenting, \"Oh, this poor guy, he's stuffed\", and that Sharp couldn't be rescued due to his condition and the impossibility of even attempting a night-time rescue. Alexander commented, \"God bless... Rest in peace\", before the group moved on after Woodward attempted to radio their advanced base camp about Sharp but got no reply. Woodward noted that it was not an easy decision to make, but his chief responsibility was the safety of his team members (and stopping in the extreme cold at that time would have risked the lives of his team who would have also been susceptible to hypothermia or frostbite), without the possibility of even being able to attempt a rescue due to the darkness. Woodward further noted that deciding to move on was one of the hard calls one has to make in mountaineering at in the death zone, given the conditions and the severe cold (due to an atmospheric low near the top of Everest that day), with Sharp being almost dead in a hypothermic coma, and that at that elevation, one has to be conscious and able to walk to even attempt a rescue.\n\nMaxime Chaya reached the summit at around 6:00 am on 15 May 2006. During his descent Chaya and the Sherpa he was with, Dorjee, encountered Sharp a little after 9:00 am, noticed he was shivering, and tried to help him; he also notified the Himex expedition manager Russell Brice over the group's radio. Chaya had not seen Sharp in the darkness of the ascent, but Chaya and Dorjee did try to help on the way down when they saw him in the daylight shivering. Chaya observed that Sharp was unconscious but was shivering severely, and was wearing a thin pair of wool gloves with no hat, glasses or goggles. Sharp was severely frostbitten, and had frozen hands and legs, and he found only one oxygen bottle with the gauge on empty.\n\nAt one point Sharp stopped shivering leading Chaya to believe he had died; then some time later he started shivering again. They attempted to give him oxygen, but there was no response, and after about an hour Brice advised Chaya that he was running out of oxygen and that there was nothing he could do, so he needed to come down. Later, Chaya told the \"Washington Post\": \"it almost looks like he [David Sharp] had a death wish\" and noted some issues with Sharp's climb: he went alone, tried to summit too late in the day, and had too little bottled oxygen and no radio.\n\nSoon after Chaya descended, some of the others from the second Himex group and a Turkish group encountered Sharp again during their descent and also attempted to help him as they overheard Chaya's radio calls that Sharp was still alive and shivering. Phurba Tashi, the lead Sherpa for Himex, and a Turkish Sherpa gave Sharp oxygen from a spare bottle they found, patted him to try to get circulation going and tried to give him something to drink. At one point Sharp was able to mumble a few sentences. The group tried to get Sharp to his feet, but he kept collapsing and wasn't able to stand even with assistance. They moved Sharp into the sunlight and then descended. It took the two strongest Sherpas about 20 minutes just to move Sharp about four steps into the sunlight, so they were not going to be able to get Sharp down.\n\nFollowing David Sharp's death, Mark Inglis was initially severely criticized by the media and others, including Sir Edmund Hillary, for not helping Sharp. Inglis stated in an interview on 23 May 2006 that Sharp had been passed by 30 to 40 other climbers heading for the summit who made no attempt at a rescue, but that he was criticized for not helping Sharp, even though he was a double amputee and was probably the least likely person to have been able to help anyone, simply because he was more well known. Inglis said he believed that Sharp was ill-prepared, lacking proper gloves and oxygen, and was already doomed by the time of their ascent. He also initially stated, \"I... radioed, and Russ [expedition manager Russell Brice] said, 'Mate, you can't do anything. He's been there x number of hours without oxygen. He's effectively dead.' Trouble is, at 8500 meters it's extremely difficult to keep yourself alive, let alone keep anyone else alive\".\n\nStatements by Inglis suggest that he believed that Sharp was probably so close to death as to have been beyond help by the time the Inglis party passed him during his group's ascent and the reported radio calls to their base camp. However Brice, who was initially criticized for reportedly advising Inglis during his ascent to move on without assessing the situation at that time or the possibility of rescue for Sharp, denies the claim that any radio call was received about the stranded climber until he was notified some eight hours later by the Lebanese climber Maxime Chaya, who had not seen Sharp in the darkness of the ascent. At this time Sharp was unconscious and shivering violently with severe frostbite, and had no gloves or oxygen. It was revealed that Brice kept detailed logs of radio calls with his expedition members, recorded all radio traffic, and that the Discovery channel was filming Brice during this time, all of which confirmed that Brice was first notified of Sharp being in trouble when climber Maxime Chaya contacted Brice at about 9:00 am on 15 May 2006.\n\nIn the documentary \"Dying For Everest\", Mark Inglis stated: \"From my memory, I used the radio. I got a reply to move on and there is nothing that I can do to help. Now I'm not sure whether it was from Russell [Brice] or from someone else, or whether you know... it's just hypoxia and it's ... it's in your mind.\" It is believed that if Inglis did in fact have a radio conversation where he was told that \"he's been there x number of hours without oxygen\" that it must have been on Inglis' descent, as there was no way for Brice or other climbers to have known how long Sharp had been where he was found during the climbers ascent, and in July 2006 Inglis retracted his claim that he was told to continue his ascent after informing Brice of a climber in distress, blaming the extreme conditions at altitude for the uncertainty in his memory.\n\nThe Discovery Channel was filming the Himex expedition for a documentary \"\", including an HD camera carried by Whetu (that became unusable during the ascent due to the extreme cold) and helmet cameras for some of the Himex Sherpas, which included footage indicating that Sharp was only found by Inglis's group on their descent. However, the group of climbers with Inglis confirmed that they did discover Sharp on the ascent, but they do not confirm that Brice was contacted regarding Sharp during the ascent. By the time the Inglis group reached him on the descent and contacted Brice they were low on oxygen and heavily fatigued, with several cases of severe frostbite and other problems on the mountain, making any rescue by them impossible.\n\nNew Zealand mountaineer Jamie McGuinness reported about a Sherpa that reached Sharp on the descent, \"... Dawa from Arun Treks also gave oxygen to David and tried to help him move, repeatedly, for perhaps an hour. But he could not get David to stand alone or even stand resting on his shoulders ... Dawa had to leave him too. Even with two Sherpas it was not going to be possible to get David down the tricky sections below\"\n\nMcGuinness was part of an expedition that successfully climbed Cho Oyu with Sharp in 2002. He also was on the 2003 expedition to Mount Everest with Sharp and other climbers, and in 2006 offered Sharp the opportunity to climb Everest with his organized expedition for little more than what he ultimately paid Asian Trekking, which Sharp declined as he wanted to climb Everest independently. In the documentary \"Dying For Everest\", McGuiness noted that Sharp did not expect to be rescued ... \"absolutely not, he was clear to me that he understood the risks and he did not want to endanger anyone else\".\n\nDavid Sharp was briefly caught on a camera in the morning on 15 May 2006 during filming of the first season of a television show \"\", which was filmed the same season as his ill-fated expedition. The footage was from the helmet camera of a Himex Sherpa who encountered Sharp, along with one of the Himex group of climbers who included Mark Inglis, during their descent on 15 May 2006, and was attempting to help Sharp along with a Turkish Sherpa.\n\nAfter Sharp was given additional oxygen and attempts were made to revive him and get him walking again, he was reportedly videotaped mumbling his name, that he was from Asian Trekking, and that he just wanted to sleep. The video from the helmet camera of Sharp and the climbers attempting to help him has not been released, reportedly as requested by Sharp's family who wanted him to be remembered as an astute mountaineer and not as an incapacitated incoherent person at the end of his life. There is apparently no video of Sharp from the Discovery Channel videographer, Mark Whetu, who was with that Himex group videotaping Inglis' climb, as it was reported that the camera he was using became unusable due to the extremely low temperatures that day.\n\nSir Edmund Hillary was highly critical of the decision not to try to rescue Sharp, as incorrectly reported by the media at that time, saying that leaving other climbers to die is unacceptable, and the desire to get to the summit has become all-important. He also said, \"I think the whole attitude towards climbing Mount Everest has become rather horrifying. The people just want to get to the top. It was wrong if there was a man suffering altitude problems and was huddled under a rock, just to lift your hat, say good morning and pass on by\". He also told the \"New Zealand Herald\" that he was horrified by the callous attitude of today's climbers. \"They don't give a damn for anybody else who may be in distress and it doesn't impress me at all that they leave someone lying under a rock to die\", and that, \"I think that their priority was to get to the top and the welfare of one of the ... of a member of another expedition was very secondary.\" Hillary also called Mark Inglis \"crazy\", even though Inglis was not a guide or in charge of his group, and was a double-amputee struggling himself, with severe frostbite and problems with his oxygen. Apparently, Hillary was just responding to initial media reports which were not correct, and Inglis' initial comments to the media, which turned out to be incorrect.\n\nLinda Sharp, David's mother, however, does not blame other climbers. She has said to \"The Sunday Times\", \"David had been noticed in a shelter. People had seen him but thought he was dead. One of Russell's [Brice's] Sherpas checked on him and there was still life there. He tried to give him oxygen but it was too late. Your responsibility is to save yourself – not to try to save anybody else.\"\n\nMountaineer David Watson, who was on Everest that season on the North side, commented to \"The Washington Post\": \"It's too bad that none of the people who cared about David knew he was in trouble\", because \"the outcome would have been a lot different.\" Watson thought it was possible to save Sharp, and he noted Sharp had worked with other climbers in 2004, to save a Mexican climber who had also gotten into trouble. Watson was alerted the morning of 16 May 2006 by Phurba Tashi. Watson went to Sharp's tent and showed Sharp's passport to Tashi, who confirmed his identity. Around this time, though, a Korean team gave a radio report that the climber in red boots [Sharp] was dead. He had his rucksack with him, but his camera was missing, so it is not known if he summited.\n\n\nDuring the key days, over 100 people summitted from the north side:\n\nSharp's body remains on the mountain, but was removed from sight in 2007.\n\nThe following week after Sharp's death, three additional climbers from Asian Trekking died during summit attempts: Vitor Negrete, Igor Plyushkin, and Thomas Weber. Two Asian Trekking Sherpas and one IMG Sherpa had died earlier in the season, in the Khumbu Icefall. \"The Washington Post\" noted that 2006 was the worst season in terms of deaths since 1996 up to that time, with at least eleven climbers on Everest dying. Of the 11 deaths that season on Everest, 7 were climbers on the northeast ridge (with 4 being with Asian Trekking, along with 2 other climbers and 1 Sherpa), one died attempting to ski down the north face, and three Sherpas died on the south side (including 2 climbing Sherpas from Asian Trekking) as a result of an icefall avalanche. Accordingly, Asian Trekking essentially lost 6 climbers of the 11 that died on Everest that season. There was also one death of a climber on the adjacent Lhotse mountain that season.\n\nOn 26 May, Australian climber Lincoln Hall was found alive having been declared dead the day before. He was found by a party of four climbers (Dan Mazur, Andrew Brash, Myles Osborne, and Jangbu Sherpa) who, giving up their own summit attempt, stayed with Hall and descended with him and a rescue party of over a dozen Sherpas sent up to help him down. Hall descended in reasonably good health although suffering from frostbite and the lingering effects of cerebral edema. Hall ultimately lost the tips of his fingers and a toe to frostbite, but otherwise eventually fully recovered. Critically, similar to other successful high altitude rescues, Hall was able to walk even though he was suffering from exposure and some degree of altitude sickness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54684586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54684586", "title": "Disability and women's health", "text": "Disability and women's health\n\nWomen with disabilities have the same health issues as any other women, such as routine breast and cervical cancer screening. Women with impaired mobility are often not given basic tests, such as weight monitoring, due to the lack of accessible equipment.\n\nWomen with disability, especially individuals who belong to minority groups or who live in rural settings are often underserved in their healthcare needs. In addition, women with disabilities are more likely to live in poverty, which puts them at a greater health risk. In general, because of a lack of social connectedness that many disabled women experience, they often become disconnected from sources of support which can include healthcare providers. In Brazil, women with disabilities are also less likely to seek out gynecological health care, due to various reasons, including cultural attitudes and cost.\n\nArticle 12 of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women outlines women's protection from gender discrimination when receiving health services and women's entitlement to specific gender-related healthcare provisions. Article 25 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities specifies that \"persons with disabilities have the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health without discrimination on the basis of disability.\"\n\nBecause traditionally, men have been used to model and test health treatments, approaches to health services, such as physical therapy, have not been properly aligned with disabled women's needs. It wasn't until after the 1990s that women's health issues were studied in-depth in the United States. In addition, researching the health issues of women with disabilities is also understudied. Starting in the early 2000s, health issues for people with disabilities began to be studied in the United States. The first long term study involving the experiences of women with disability and gynecological services was published in 2001.\n\nWhen disabled women need to access routine services for anything other than their main impairment(s), they can be perceived as \"problematic patients\" by healthcare providers. Women with disabilities have reported that they are seen through the lens of their disability first, and as a person second, by healthcare providers. One woman with cerebral palsy reported that it was perceived by her doctor that every health concern was because of her CP, including a toothache. Conversely, a 2003 report found that not only did health care providers in general have positive attitudes towards people with physical disabilities in Saudi Arabia, regardless of gender and which cited that most health care professionals worldwide have positive attitudes.\n\nIn countries with strict gender segregation, such as Saudi Arabia, women must use women-only clinics, many of which do not have access for people with physical disabilities.\n\nWomen, including young women with disabilities, use contraceptives for various reasons. These include for prevention of pregnancy, menstrual suppression or because of the use of teratogenic medications. Women with intellectual disabilities (ID) are more likely to use contraceptives or even to request a hysterectomy in order to manage menstruation. Various types of contraception are available to women with disabilities, however, prescription of a specific type of birth control largely rests on the kind of disability a woman has and the types of associated side-effects of the method of contraception.\n\nMenstrual cycles are sometimes affected by different types of disabilities. In addition, women who become disabled later in life sometimes experience transient menstrual disorders.\n\nHealthcare professionals are less likely to refer women with disabilities for various gynecological screenings. This is an attitudinal barrier which can come from a healthcare provider's unfamiliarity with disability or because they assume women with disabilities are asexual in nature. Women with disabilities are less likely than women without disabilities to receive recommended Pap smears. Women who have a spinal cord injury above the T6 vertebra can have autonomic dysreflexia during a pelvic exam which can be life-threatening. Women with ID are less likely to be given Pap smears because the process itself may be upsetting to the patient.\n\nWomen with physical disabilities may be unable to get a Pap smear if the examination table cannot be lowered. There are a number of alternative examination procedures that can be used, including knee-chest position, diamond-shaped position, M-shaped position and V-shaped position.These alternative procedures can help accommodate women who have difficulty putting their feet into stirrups or who need greater body support. In addition, OB stirrups can be used for additional comfort. The Welner table, designed by American obstetrician-gynecologist and disability rights activist Sandra Welner, is an examination table designed with a wider range of adjustments and positions to facilitate accessibility for both patients and doctors with physical disabilities. Welner also compiled the handbook, \"Welner's Guide to the care of women with disabilities\". Welner died before the book was finished, Florence Haseltine completed it.\n\nA study conducted in 1989 found that only 19% of women with physical disabilities had been counseled on sexuality in a medical setting and were rarely offered information about contraceptives. Women with ID often lack both education about sexual health and the ability to learn about it informally. In addition, their medical providers are less likely to discuss contraception with them.\n\nWomen in Zimbabwe, where people with disabilities are often treated as second-class citizens, face increased barriers in having access to services for sexual health. When the National Reproductive Health Policy was implemented in 2006, women with disabilities were virtually ignored. Zimbabwean women with disabilities faced negative attitudes about their reproductive health, especially from female nurses who expressed the idea that \"sex was not meant for the disabled.\"\n\nSome disabled women have been advised to become sterilized or to have an abortion because doctors feel that they are unsuited or unfit to become mothers. In the United States, a 1927 Supreme Court case, \"Buck v. Bell\", allowed the forced sterilization of women with intellectual disabilities. In Singapore, the Voluntary Sterlisation Act (VSA) was passed in 1970 and which allowed any spouse, parent or guardian of persons who are \"afflicted with any hereditary form of illness that is recurrent, mental illness, mental deficiency or epilepsy\" to consent to the sterilization on their behalf. In Brazil, many healthcare providers and individuals with disabilities both see sterilization as the only option for contraception.\n\nA 1996 study regarding pregnant women with disability found that more than 50% of hospitals in the United States could not accommodate women with physical disabilities due to accessibility issues.\n\nA study published in the \"Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities\" demonstrated that pregnant women and mothers with ID benefit from the inclusion of a doula both before and after they gave birth. This approach contrasts with \"crisis driven\" services that are more often given to parents who have intellectual disabilities. Participants in the small study felt that they gained a trusting relationship with their doulas and that helped them stay calm both during labor and after. The women were able to make better, more informed choices about their own care because of the information and support they received from their doulas. In the Netherlands, women with ID are provided support in order to become successful parents.\n\nIn planning for childcare after birth, some doctors overplan and take agency away from women with disability. Healthcare providers plan for people to do jobs for the new mother, rather than assisting the new mother or helping her adapt.\n\nMany women with a disability do not regularly receive or are not regularly referred for breast cancer screenings. Women with some physical disabilities may need to be referred to special mammography centers because most equipment is not designed to accommodate women who are unable to stand. Some women with disabilities do not get breast cancer screening due to financial concerns. Clinical depression is also a complication involved in whether or not women with disabilities get annual mammograms. Women who have had ionizing radiation applied to the spine during health procedures are at an increased risk of developing breast cancer.\n\nThe model of successful aging often includes the problematic (and likely abelist) idea of being free from chronic illness. Limited studies looking at successful aging among people with disability found that they could also age successfully, though in a somewhat different manner than non-disabled individuals. Older women are more likely to be disabled than younger women. The most common disability affecting elderly women worldwide is osteoarthritis. Older women who have disabilities that affect their mobility are at risk of losing contact with their communities and have poor quality of life outcomes.\n\nWomen with physical disabilities are at a greater risk of having lower bone mass and are at risk for osteoporosis. Women with ID and Down syndrome often go through menopause at an earlier age than other women. Women with various disabilities sometimes show different symptoms from decreased estrogen levels during menopause.\n\nLoss of estrogen after menopause can also lead to a greater likelihood of urinary incontinence. Treatment and therapy interventions for incontinence have not been tested or modified for women with disabilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13560258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13560258", "title": "Donate Life America", "text": "Donate Life America\n\nDonate Life America, founded in 1992 as the Coalition on Donation, is a 501(c)3 not-for-profit alliance of national organizations and 47 state-based organizations across the United States called Donate Life State Teams dedicated to educating the public and advocating for organ, eye and tissue donation. Donate Life America is funded by contributions from the public, corporations, and affiliated organizations. The organization works toward creating a more aware and educated population on the importance of organ, eye, and tissue donation through many different mediums.\n\nDonate Life America publishes brochures, program kits, and educational materials, along with print, radio, and television advertising in order to spread awareness. The organization also provides technical assistance and referral services, coordinates the national campaign for organ donation, identifies best practices, and leads the Donor Designation Collaborative. The current President and CEO of Donate Life America is David Fleming.\n\nIn 2003, Donate Life America helped institute National Donate Life Month, which was first officially proclaimed by President George W. Bush. More recently, Donate Life America has launched awareness campaigns targeted at millennials through social media and texting campaigns. Some examples of this are the campaign on Facebook where users share one's donor status and subsequently redirect followers to their local donor registry, and the Text2DonateLife Project.\n\nDonate Life ECHO is an important aspect of this organization, \"Donate Life ECHO was started with the aim of giving voice to the experience of multicultural communities with donation and transplantation,\" says Bobby Howard, DLA board member and past president of AMAT. \"To increase our educational outreach efforts and donor registrations, voices and stories from these communities need to be heard.\"\nNational Donate Life Month is about saving and healing lives through organ, eye, tissue and living donation. Every April, Donate Life America focuses national attention on how every individual has the potential to make LIFE possible by registering their decision to be an organ, eye and tissue donor and by considering being a living donor.\n\nEach year, Donate Life America creates artwork for National Donate Life Month that illustrates the power of donation. The 2017 National Donate Life Month (NDLM) art uses pinwheels to tell the donation story. Pinwheels capture and pass on energy. Each Donate Life pinwheel has four sails supported by one stem. The one stem symbolizes the power of one person to save and heal lives through donation. The four sails represent organ, eye, tissue and living donation, the four ways one person can save and heal more than 75 lives through organ, eye and tissue donation, and even save a life through the gift of living donation.\n\nPinwheels are also symbolic of transformation, turning obstacles into opportunities. The image of the pinwheel reminds us that we all have the potential power to save and heal lives. This April, we encourage you to watch the pinwheels transform the breeze into colorful motion, think of the lives touched by donation and transplantation and register to be a donor.\n\n"}
{"id": "4059253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4059253", "title": "Dorothea Waddingham", "text": "Dorothea Waddingham\n\nDorothea Nancy Waddingham (1899 – 16 April 1936) was an English nursing home matron who was convicted of murder in the United Kingdom.\n\nDorothea Waddingham was born on a farm near Nottingham. She has been referred to as \"Nurse\" Waddingham, because the two murders she was accused and convicted of were committed in a nursing home she ran near Nottingham in England. However, she was not a qualified nurse and the only medical training she received was as a ward-maid at an infirmary near Burton-on-Trent. In 1925 she married Thomas Willoughby Leech. He was twice her age and dying of cancer. During their marriage she served two prison terms, for fraud and for theft. Leech died in 1930, at which time Waddingham was seeing another man named Ronald Joseph Sullivan. Sullivan had fought in World War I and had been awarded the Military Medal for gallantry and also served in Ireland after the war. They would marry and have four children. While married to Sullivan she began to take in elderly and infirm patients, and turned her home at 32 Devon Drive, Nottingham into a nursing home.\n\nMrs Blagg, the Honorary Secretary of the County Nursing Association, approved of Waddingham's work, and arranged for Mrs Baguley who was 89 and her daughter Ada, who had multiple sclerosis or \"creeping paralysis\", to become patients. In February 1935 another patient named Mrs Kemp died from an illness which required large dosages of morphine. Plenty of the drug remained on the premises of Waddingham's nursing home.\n\nAda Baguley had made a will leaving her estate of £1,600 in trust for her mother after her death, and with the rest to be divided between two cousins, Lawrence Baguley and Fred Gilbert, after her mother died. Ada had been informed that it was likely she would precede her mother in death. However, this will was destroyed by Ada in May 1935, and a new will created that left all the money to Dorothea Waddingham and Ronald Sullivan when Ada and her mother both died (it being in recompense for the nurse's care of them). The elderly Mrs Baguley died in the second week of May.\n\nAda lasted through the spring and summer of 1935. Later it was said that Waddingham was quite attentive to her. In September 1935 Ada received a visit from an old family friend, Mrs Alice Briggs, who spent an afternoon cheering her up. Mrs Briggs told Waddingham that she would have Ada over for tea at her home in a couple of days. But on 11 September (the next day) Sullivan advised Dr H. H. Mansfield that his patient Ada was in a coma. Mansfield came and found Ada was dead. As this was expected the doctor was not suspicious, and after getting further details from Waddingham he filled out a death certificate that Ada died of cardiovascular degeneration.\n\nAda had given her permission to be cremated and if the cremation had gone through it is probable that Waddingham could not have been proved guilty of Ada's death. But for the body to be cremated needed two doctors to sign the certificate, and this could only be done after the family of the deceased was notified. Ada had noted in her will a request not to notify her relatives. Waddingham said there were no relatives, which was a lie.\n\nUnfortunately for Waddingham, the man in charge of cremations was Dr Cyril Banks, who was also the Medical Officer for Health in Nottingham. Banks had never thought highly of Waddingham's establishment as a so-called \"nursing home\", and knew there was no State Registered Nurse on the staff (as there should have been). He became suspicious at the note from Ada Baguley that authorised cremation and ordered a post-mortem. The post-mortem found no traces of anything connected to Ada's physical conditions that could have immediately caused death. This led to an analysis of the organs of the deceased by Dr W. W. Taylor, Senior Assistant to the Nottingham Analyst. He found considerable traces of morphine (over three grains) in her stomach, liver, kidneys and her heart.\n\nSuspicions were now raised about the death of Mrs Baguley, and an exhumation ordered by the Home Office occurred. This was handled by Dr Roche Lynch, who found the mother had also died of morphine poisoning. This led to the arrests of Waddingham and Sullivan for the two murders.\n\nWaddingham's trial started on 4 February 1936 before Mr Justice Goddard. Her barrister was Mr Eales, with the prosecution by Norman Birkett (a rarity, for Birkett normally handled criminal defence). Birkett brought out much damaging testimony, including how Ada Baguley's last meal was heavy and rich for a woman in her condition: Waddingham admitted that she gave Ada pork, baked potatoes, kidney beans and two portions of fruit pie. It was suggested as an effort to disguise the cause of death and showed a lack of concern for the patient's welfare. The result was that Waddingham was convicted of using morphine to poison Mrs Baguley and Ada. The purported motive behind the murders was to gain the Baguleys' estate. It was also revealed that Waddingham claimed that Dr. Mansfield gave her surplus morphine tablets for Ada Baguley, which that doctor denied. In trial, Sullivan was discharged for insufficient evidence, although the so-called note from Ada Baguley regarding cremation was written by him.\n\nWaddingham was found guilty on 27 February. Despite recommendation of mercy, due to her being a mother of several young children, she was hanged on 16 April 1936, having confessed to the crime shortly before her execution. Her execution was carried out at Winson Green Prison and her hangman was Thomas Pierrepoint, assisted by his nephew Albert Pierrepoint.\n\nWaddingham was a mother of five and was still breastfeeding her 3-month old baby at the time of her execution. 10,000 people gathered outside the gaol to demonstrate against the execution, chanting \"Stop this mother murder!\". The protests were led by the prominent abolitionist Violet Van der Elst.\n\nThe fiancé of Ada Baguley, the daughter, committed suicide after her death.\n\nThe execution is dramatised in the 2005 film \"Pierrepoint\", in which Waddingham is played by Elizabeth Hopley. Although the film shows Timothy Spall as Albert Pierrepoint carrying out the execution, in fact the hangman was Thomas Pierrepoint (Albert's uncle); Albert acted as his uncle's assistant. Furthermore, the execution took place at Birmingham's Winson Green prison, not Holloway Prison in London as is implied in the film. The film is also incorrect in that it depicts the execution taking place during the war years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14707058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14707058", "title": "Electronic Distributed Monitoring and Evaluation Solution", "text": "Electronic Distributed Monitoring and Evaluation Solution\n\nElectronic Distributed Monitoring and Evaluation Solution (EDMES) is a system used specifically for the monitoring and evaluation of socio-economic programmes. It is a component-based IT solution developed to fit the requirements of diverse programmes of multiple distributed organizations.\n\nIt was initially designed and developed by e-Soul (Pty) Ltd for a USAID-funded organization (HOPE Worldwide) to monitor disparate services in HIV and AIDS projects across the continent of Africa. The EDMES solution provides an infrastructure basis for the deployment of an M&E Framework.\n\nOpen-source application used for the configuration of the solution are FreeBSD, MySQL, and Pentaho. A Crippleware version was made available to the sector via SAGONET. Other versions exists that addresses professional and enterprise requirements.\n"}
{"id": "3107666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3107666", "title": "Endometritis", "text": "Endometritis\n\nEndometritis is inflammation of the inner lining of the uterus (endometrium). Symptoms may include fever, lower abdominal pain, and abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge. It is the most common cause of infection after childbirth. It is also part of spectrum of diseases that make up pelvic inflammatory disease.\nEndometritis is divided into acute and chronic forms. The acute form is usually from an infection that passes through the cervix as a result of an abortion, during menstruation, following childbirth, or as a result of douching or placement of an IUD. Risk factors for endometritis following delivery include Caesarean section and prolonged rupture of membranes. Chronic endometritis is more common after menopause. The diagnosis may be confirmed by endometrial biopsy. Ultrasound may be useful to verify that there is no retained tissue within the uterus.\nTreatment is usually with antibiotics. Recommendations for treatment of endometritis following delivery includes clindamycin with gentamicin. Testing for and treating gonorrhea and chlamydia in those at risk is also recommended. Chronic disease may be treated with doxycycline. Outcomes with treatment are generally good.\nRates of endometritis are about 2% following vaginal delivery, 10% following scheduled C-section, and 30% with rupture of membranes before C-section if preventative antibiotics are not used. The term \"endomyometritis\" may be used when inflammation of the endometrium and the myometrium is present. The condition is also relatively common in other animals such as cows.\n\nAcute Endometritis is characterized by infection. The organisms most often isolated are believed to be because of compromised abortions, delivery, medical instrumentation, and retention of placental fragments. There is not enough evidence for the use of prophylactic antibiotics to prevent endometritis after manual removal of placental in vaginal birth. Histologically, neutrophilic infiltration of the endometrial tissue is present during acute endometritis. The clinical presentation is typically high fever and purulent vaginal discharge. Menstruation after acute endometritis is excessive and in uncomplicated cases can resolve after 2 weeks of clindamycin and gentamicin IV antibiotic treatment.\n\nIn certain populations, it has been associated with \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" and pelvic inflammatory disease.\n\nChronic Endometritis is characterized by the presence of plasma cells in the stroma. Lymphocytes, eosinophils, and even lymphoid follicles may be seen, but in the absence of plasma cells, are not enough to warrant a histologic diagnosis. It may be seen in up to 10% of all endometrial biopsies performed for irregular bleeding. The most common organisms are Chlamydia trachomatis (chlamydia), Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhea), Streptococcus agalactiae (Group B Streptococcus), Mycoplasma hominis, tuberculosis, and various viruses. Most of these agents are capable of causing chronic pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Patients suffering from chronic endometritis may have an underlying cancer of the cervix or endometrium (although infectious cause is more common). Antibiotic therapy is curative in most cases (depending on underlying cause), with fairly rapid alleviation of symptoms after only 2 to 3 days.\n\nChronic granulomatous endometritis is usually caused by tuberculous. The granulomas are small, sparse, and without caseation. The granulomas take up to 2 weeks to develop and since the endometrium is shed every 4 weeks, the granulomas are poorly formed.\n\nIn human medicine, pyometra (also a veterinary condition of significance) is regarded as a form of chronic endometritis seen in elderly women causing stenosis of the cervical os and accumulation of discharges and infection. Symptom in chronic endometritis is blood stained discharge but in pyometra the patient complaints of lower abdominal pain.\n\nPyometra describes an accumulation of pus in the uterine cavity. In order for pyometra to develop, there must be both an infection \"and\" blockage of cervix. Signs and symptoms include lower abdominal pain (suprapubic), rigors, fever, and the discharge of pus on introduction of a sound into the uterus.\nPyometra is treated with antibiotics, according to culture and sensitivity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3725756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3725756", "title": "European Society of Gene and Cell Therapy", "text": "European Society of Gene and Cell Therapy\n\nThe European Society of Gene and Cell Therapy (ESGCT) is a non-profit organisation for educational and scientific purposes. The aim of ESGCT is to promote fundamental and clinical research in gene therapy, cell therapy, and genetic vaccines by facilitating education, the exchange of information and technology and by serving as a professional adviser to stakeholder communities and regulatory bodies in Europe.\n\nESGCT was founded in January 1992 as the European Working Group on Human Gene Transfer and Therapy (EWGT). The Society was renamed the European Society of Gene Therapy (ESGT) in 1998. In 2007, the Society's name was changed again to ESGCT to better reflect that the fields of gene and cell therapy can not be readily separated from one another. In 2017 ESGCT celebrated its 25th anniversary at the Annual Congress in Berlin. \n\nESGCT seeks to support scientists and clinicians working in the fields of gene and cell therapy and to promote awareness and understanding of gene and cell therapy and the vast amount of related research in Europe. For the past 25 years, the society has seen many developments in gene and cell therapy. The development of new and improved delivery vectors and advances in genome engineering have opened up new possibilities, while the knowledge gained through clinical trials and long-term follow up of patients has contributed not only to the fields of gene and cell therapy, but also to the wider medical and life sciences. With these developments, more potential applications of gene and cell therapy and more elegant and life-changing treatments than ever before are within our grasp. With these possibilities come challenges both for the field and the wider society as treatments need to make the transition from lab bench to patient bedside and ethical questions need to be answered. Through its activities, ESGCT seeks to stimulate further exchange of scientific knowledge and expertise, promote collaboration between and within clinics, academic research and the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Furthermore, ESGCT is committed to the training and support of young investigators entering the field and to facilitating an informed dialogue between the scientific community, policy makers and society as a whole.\n\nESGCT organises an Annual Congress, which brings together scientists working in the fields of gene and cell therapy from throughout Europe and beyond. The Congress is typically held in October or November in a major European city. The Congress is a platform for highlighting the latest research and techniques through the scientific sessions, which include keynote lectures, invited speakers, selected speakers, poster sessions and exhibitions. Furthermore, the Congress is an opportunity to develop relationships and collaborations. The public day, where key concepts in gene and cell therapy along with the latest research are presented in the local language to a general audience, is an integral part of the Congress. The Congress may be organised solely by ESGCT, but is often organised in collaboration with a national society for gene and cell therapy in Europe, for example the German Society for Gene Therapy DG-GT in 2017, or with closely related scientific societies, such as the International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR) in 2016. Since 2016, ESGCT also organises an annual Spring School. This meeting is aimed at students and young investigators who are new to the field of gene and cell therapy. The Spring School aims to provide an intensive training course and the opportunity to interact with current and future leaders in the field. Recently, ESGCT has started initiatives to engage its members and the wider community, including patients and members of the public. These initiatives include a heatmap that shows the location and details of gene and cell therapy research in Europe, blogs written by the society's members and news items accessible to non-specialists available on the ESGCT website.\n\nThe Board of ESGCT consists of 10 eminent scientists working in the fields of gene and/or cell therapy. Furthermore, one or two graduate students may be co-opted, non-voting, members of the Board. The presidency of ESGCT normally runs for 2 years. Presidents are elected at the Annual General Meeting that takes place at the Annual Congress. The following people have been elected President of the Society\n\nThe Annual Congress of the ESGCT take place in a different location in Europe every year to reflect the international character of the society. Since the first congress in 1993, Congresses have taken place in\n\n"}
{"id": "55728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55728", "title": "Federal Meat Inspection Act", "text": "Federal Meat Inspection Act\n\nThe Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906 (FMIA) is an American law that makes it a crime to adulterate or misbrand meat and meat products being sold as food, and ensures that meat and meat products are slaughtered and processed under sanitary conditions. These requirements also apply to imported meat products, which must be inspected under equivalent foreign standards. USDA inspection of poultry was added by the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957. The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act authorizes the FDA to provide inspection services for all livestock and poultry species not listed in the FMIA or PPIA, including venison and buffalo. The Agricultural Marketing Act authorizes the USDA to offer voluntary, fee-for-service inspection services for these same species.\n\nThe original 1906 Act authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to inspect and condemn any meat product found unfit for human consumption. Unlike previous laws ordering meat inspections, which were enforced to assure European nations from banning pork trade, this law was strongly motivated to protect the American diet. All labels on any type of food had to be accurate (although not all ingredients were provided on the label). Even though all harmful food was banned, many warnings were still provided on the container. The law was partly a response to the publication of Upton Sinclair's \"The Jungle\", an exposé of the Chicago meat packing industry, as well as to other Progressive Era muckraking publications of the day. While Sinclair's dramatized account was intended to bring attention to the terrible working conditions in Chicago, the public was more horrified by the prospect of bad meat.\nThe book's assertions were confirmed in the Neill-Reynolds report, commissioned by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1906. Roosevelt was suspicious of Sinclair's socialist attitude and conclusions in \"The Jungle\", so he sent labor commissioner Charles P. Neill and social worker James Bronson Reynolds, men whose honesty and reliability he trusted, to Chicago to make surprise visits to meat packing facilities.\n\nDespite betrayal of the secret to the meat packers, who worked three shifts a day for three weeks to thwart the inspection, Neill and Reynolds were still revolted by the conditions at the factories and at the lack of concern by plant managers (though neither had much experience in the field). Following their report, Roosevelt became a supporter of regulation of the meat packing industry, and, on June 30, signed the Meat Inspection Act of 1906.\n\nThe FMIA mandated the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) inspection of meat processing plants that conducted business across state lines. The Pure Food and Drug Act, enacted on the same day in 1906, also gave the government broad jurisdiction over food in interstate commerce.\n\nThe four primary requirements of the Meat Inspection Act of 1906 were:\n\n\nAfter 1906, many additional laws that further standardized the meat industry and its inspection were passed.\n\nIn 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"National Meat Assn. v. Harris\", that the FMIA preempts a California law regulating the treatment of non-ambulatory livestock.\n\nChronological legislation relative to U.S. Congressional revisions concerning the Federal Meat Inspection Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16338493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16338493", "title": "Gelsenwasser", "text": "Gelsenwasser\n\nGelsenwasser AG is a German utilities company that supplies natural gas and fresh water to residents in Germany. Areas of service include Ruhr, Lower Rhine, Westphalia, Lower Saxony, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Münster, and Saxony-Anhalt. The company also provides wastewater filtration services.\n\n"}
{"id": "46488840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46488840", "title": "Ghana Water Company", "text": "Ghana Water Company\n\nGhana Water Company (formerly Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Aqua Vitens, and Rand Limited) is the majority provider of water utility services in Ghana.\n\nIn the pre-colonial era, inhabitants of what is now Ghana primarily drew their water directly from natural sources such as streams, lakes, and rivers. Prior to World War I, the first public water system was established in the then Gold coast by the British who were then colonizing the Gold Coast. In by that time the 1920s, other major towns and cities started having water systems which were built purposely to be used in some urban areas, including Winneba, Kumasi, and the then colonial capital Cape Coast.\n\nGhana Water Company Limited was established on 1 July 1999, following the conversion of Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation into a state-owned limited liability company under the Statutory Corporations (Conversion to Companies) Act 461 of 1993 as amended by LI 1648.\n\nGWCL has offices and stations across Ghana including regional and district offices which oversee the provision of potable water in their respective geographic locations and has its head Office in Accra.\n\nGWCL Website\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Ghana\n"}
{"id": "34081902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34081902", "title": "Guatemala Health Initiative", "text": "Guatemala Health Initiative\n\nThe Guatemala Health Initiative (GHI) is a private, humanitarian organization that works to improve the health of the poor, indigenous population in the remote areas of the western highlands in Guatemala. (Penn) faculty, students, and staff work in partnership to serve the health issues of the underprivileged Santiago Atitlán community in Guatemala. The goal of GHI is to strengthen clinical services and promote community health in resource-poor Guatemalan communities.\n\nKent Bream, founding faculty director of the GHI, helped to rebuild the Hospitalito Atitlán that was destroyed in 2005.\nBream trains students and coordinates interdisciplinary research, education, and service programming involving the Penn Schools of Nursing, Medicine, Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Applied Sciences, and Wharton to improve the health of the Atitlan community GHI partners with Hospitalito Atitlán, a small, private, non-profit hospital in Santiago Atitlan in the western highlands of Guatemala.\nSantiago Atitlan, the largest indigenous village in Central America, sits on the southern shore of beautiful Lake Atitlán. It is rugged land with three majestic volcanoes surrounded by a dense jungle. The word \"atitlan\" is a Mayan word that translates as \"the place where the rainbow gets its colors\".\n\nSantiago Atitlán is a poor, close-knit community of 44,220 Tz'utujil Maya speaking inhabitants, of which ninety eight percent are indigenous. The primary language for ninety four percent of the residents is Tz'utujil; however, fifty four percent speak and thirteen percent read some Spanish. Residents of Santiago Atitlán are referred to as Atitecos. Eighty percent are Catholics, but the traditional Mayan beliefs have endured. Their Mayan rituals, including sacrifices, ensure that the sun, moon, and planets will continue on their paths. In the highlands of Guatemala, especially around Lake Atitlán, the Maya culture still rules. Atitecos are hard-working individuals sustained mainly by agriculture, fishing, and by tourism. According to the World Bank, Guatemala has one of the most unequal income distributions with fifty one percent of the population living on less than $2 a day and fifteen percent on less than $1 a day. While over half of the population of Guatemala lives in extreme poverty, within the rural indigenous Maya areas of Santiago Atitlán this poverty level raises to ninety one percent.\n\nGuatemala's social development indicators, such as maternal and infant mortality, chronic child malnutrition, and illiteracy, are among the worst in the hemisphere. Santiago Atitlán has the worst access to healthcare in Guatemala. Childhood diseases include respiratory and diarrheal illnesses and malnutrition. In the adult population, diabetes, hypertension, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are common occurrences.\nSantiago Atitlán has the third highest maternal mortality (MM) rates in all of Guatemala. This and other indigenous communities in the Guatemala highlands suffer extremely high rates of maternal and infant mortality with many obstetrical complications, and high levels of pre-eclampsia. Over a woman's lifetime, the expected maternal morbidity is 1 in 71; and maternal mortality is 290 deaths per 100,000 live births with a range of 100 to 650 deaths. In Guatemala, the most precarious living conditions, the highest fertility rates, and the smallest percentage of births attended by doctors belong to indigenous women. Approximately 80% of all childbearing women are attended by traditional birth attendants (TBA's) who have little or no formal education. A traditional birth attendant is defined as \"a person who assists the mother during childbirth and initially acquired her skills by delivering babies herself or through apprenticeship. Women in Santiago Atitlán, a medically pluralistic community, remain strongly skewed towards traditional medicine, despite the associated risks.\n\nSantiago Atitlán has the fourth highest malnutrition in the world and seventy percent of children in western highlands have stunted growth from chronic malnutrition. www.santiagoatitlan.com Extreme poverty and severe gastrointestinal illnesses are main contributors to malnutrition. Gastrointestinal illnesses result from contaminated water sources. In 1990, the Santiago Atitlan water supply was chlorinated after a cholera outbreak, but social determinants affect drinking water beliefs and practices among the Tz'utujil Maya. Memories of the Guatemalan Civil War and Hurricane Stan, attitudes about Lake Atitlán water, and the taste and smell of chlorinated tap water, as well as, differences in ethnicity, literacy, years of schooling, and tap water quality influence Tz'utujil Maya water preferences. Despite criticism of chlorination, ninety percent of residents do get their drinking water from household or public taps, but many still drink from contaminated sources or self treat the water. Demographic, socioeconomic, social, cultural, political, and historical factors continue to be significant determinants of water-related health. Public health water interventions need to address the inequalities related to these underlying factors in order to achieve maximum effectiveness.\nBoth the forty four percent rates of obesity and chronic malnutrition are significant health problems. In Guatemala, twenty three percent of households contain a growth stunted child with an overweight mother. Poor diets were associated with these disparities.\nBiomedical health professionals express increasing concern that rising consumption of soft drinks and processed foods in Mayan and Latin American lead to detrimental nutritional and health consequences. Scholars debate whether the pervading presence of Coca-Cola and Pepsi in developing countries represents \"Coca-Colonization,\" synonymous with cultural imperialism, or cultural hybridization. Coca-Cola has been uniquely hybridized into the health beliefs, religion, culture, and environment of the Tz'utujil Maya eating patterns. The Atitecos have been Americanized as they have incorporated Coke into their daily drinking habits. They drink it in place of alcohol and instead of contaminated water and use it in celebrations and to cure sore throat and coughs. This dietary inclusion likely increases malnutrition, diabetes and body mass index (BMI). The BMI of the Tz'utujil Maya of Santiago Atitlán, Guatemala is positively associated schooling, income, literacy, marriage, market visits per week, and water drinking. Two-thirds of the high-income respondents were obese, whereas slightly over half of low-income respondents had either normal or underweight BMI. Public health interventions for obesity should target high income, married Atitecos who visit the market frequently. This coca-Colonization and cultural hybridization appear to be complementary rather than mutually exclusive processes that contribute to dietary transitions, economic development, and differential health beliefs related to soft drink consumption.\n\nMany Global Health Programs: governmental, non-governmental (NGO), private, and voluntary organizations work to support the people of Guatemala. The World Health Organization (WHO) directs international health activities, supplies training and technical assistance, develops standards, disseminates health information, promotes research, collects and analyzes epidemiologic data, and develops systems for monitoring and evaluating health programs in Guatemala. The Global Health Initiative sponsored by United States Government, targets women, newborns and children under five in Guatemala. It concentrates support efforts, aligning the NGOs and engaging the private sector in reducing maternal and infant mortality, reducing the pervasive levels of chronic malnutrition that affect fifty percent of all Guatemalan children, increasing access to voluntary family planning services, prevention of HIV and other communicable diseases and improving health systems and health services. In addition to these large organizations, private voluntary organizations contribute twenty percent of the external health aid to distressed areas.\n\nGHI, a voluntary organization, established a partnership with the Hospitalito Atitlán in the summer of 2005, when University of Pennsylvania medical and nursing student volunteers conducted a community health assessment in Guatemala. The predecessor to Hospitalito Atitlán, Clínica Santiaguito, opened in the 1960s. The Clinica was abandoned, after the massacre of thirteen Atitecos by the Guatemalan Army in 1990, leaving the town without medical services. In 2002, K'aslimaal, a grassroots organization, began to raise funds and make plans to reconstruct the hospital. Through their efforts, Hospitalito Atitlán opened on April 1, 2005, providing in-patient, surgical, and 24-hour emergency care to the people of Santiago Atitlán. Unbelievably, barely six months after opening, on October 5, 2005, mudslides triggered by Hurricane Stan, buried Hospitalito Atitlán in eight feet of mud. The mud slide destroyed the town and killed hundreds and the area was declared a mass grave. Two Penn medical students were present during the disaster and participated in the relief efforts. Through the heroism of hospital staff and volunteers, and the generosity of donors, Hospitalito Atitlán, amazingly, re-opened just two weeks later in a temporary location. Groundbreaking for a new permanent building for Hospitalito Atitlán began on September 30, 2006. In November 2010, the first floor of the new hospital opened.\nToday, Hospitalito Atitlán is a flourishing health organization that offers curative and preventative hospital services in the poverty stricken Atitlán area. Medical care is accessible to all, with a focus on women and children. Social Workers are available to evaluate the resources of the patient and family and provide up to a one hundred percent discount for those with limited resources Local physicians, nursing, and administrative staff work closely in collaboration with volunteer medical personnel from around the world to provide a comprehensive scope of care, including the only 24/7 emergency and surgical obstetrical care within a 2-hour radius. For the many patients that speak only Tz'utujil. Hospitalito Atitlán staff translates Tz'tujil to Spanish. Hospital Atitlán is truly the lifeline for the people in the remote community of Santiago Atitlan.\n\nThe mission of Guatemala Health Initiative is to work with Hospitalito Atitlán to strengthen the medical services in a socially relevant and ethically acceptable way in resource-poor Tz'ulujil Maya community of Santiago Atitlán in Guatemala. GHI collaborates with the Hospitalito Atitlán to improve the health of Atitecos by increasing clinical activities and community health promotion via community health research, personnel, and material support. GHI provides education through video tapes, lectures and community health projects. GHI strives to educate mothers on the importance of prenatal care, safe deliveries, and postnatal care. GHI informs residents about the pulmonary problems that arise from the open cooking fires in homes and the importance of safe drinking water. Central to the goal of GHI is to put the knowledge gained through participatory research and clinical and cultural experiences into developing effective, sustainable, and culturally sensitive health interventions.\nA number of potential collaborative projects between Penn and its Guatemalan partners are being conducted or explored, including scientific and clinical training with bilateral exchanges of students and faculty, as well as research on issues related to: violence prevention, food and nutrition, road traffic safety, chronic disease and trauma treatment. In 2011, Dr. Kent Bream, students, medical school librarians, and hospital IT specialists brought the Penn mobile technology project to Hospitalito Atitlán. The Penn mobile technology project, a most promising telemedicine program, uses smart phones and other mobile technologies to improve physicians' access to clinical information in Guatemala. The smart phone technology allows images and information to be relayed to Penn doctors for instantaneous diagnosis and second opinions. They can also use electronic devices to tap into extensive electronic medical databases and e-journals to get information on diseases and treatment options. This immediate access to medical information will advance the quality of care in this rural area.\n\nGHI raises funds, procures medical supplies, and provides personnel support for Hospitalito Atitlán. Penn medical and nursing student rotations benefit both Penn and Hospitalito Atitlán. The GHI also informs the Penn community about health and human rights in Guatemala. Contributions from the Guatemala Health Initiative, a voluntary organization, positively impact both the Penn and Guatemalan communities.\nGlobal health programs, albeit, large or small, governmental or private, although mostly valuable, must be evaluated for their tangible value. Just like a noble deed may be of great importance and worthy of high praise or it may, no matter how well-intentioned, be worthless. In all types of organizations and at all levels, volunteering or donating is not necessarily a valuable service unless it is addressing an identified need and the purpose is valid. The verifiable need must be adequately and efficiently met and it must be sustainable. Health research plays a critical role by identifying needs; developing and evaluating interventions and applying knowledge and put it into action. Monitoring and evaluating the results of the system is essential and open sharing of knowledge and communication is a main objective. Nonprofit, voluntary organizations form the bedrock of the global health care delivery system, but they are not alone in their efforts as global health care systems are pluralistic.\nThe Guatemala Health Initiative (GHI) of the University of Pennsylvania, through its humanitarian contributions to Hospital Atitlán and the people of the Santiago Atitlán region of Guatemala, is significant and its importance should be recognized. GHI was born of good intent, with solid direction, expanding endeavors, and is succeeding in its mission to improve the health of the indigenous people of Santiago Atitlán, Guatemala. The health care and community outreach has its roots deep in the Penn community. The earliest hospitals were founded by religious and civic communities. The Pennsylvania Hospital was founded in 1751, through the philanthropic efforts of Benjamin Franklin, founder of the University of Pennsylvania. GHI carries on this proud Penn tradition in its mission to improve access to healthcare for the people of rural Guatemala. Through education, research, medical care, and the use of new technologies, GHI continues to advance the health of the Santiago Atitlán people, primarily through its support of the Hospitalito Atitlán, an essential part of the vulnerable community's safety net.\n"}
{"id": "27750546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27750546", "title": "Health For All", "text": "Health For All\n\nHealth For All is a programming goal of the World Health Organization (WHO), which envisions securing the health and well being of people around the world that has been popularized since the 1970s. It is the basis for the World Health Organization's primary health care strategy to promote health, human dignity, and enhanced quality of life.\n\nHalfdan Mahler, Director General (1973-1983) of the WHO, defined Health For All in 1981, as follows:\n\nHealth For All means that health is to be brought within reach of everyone in a given country. And by \"health\" is meant a personal state of well being, not just the availability of health services – a state of health that enables a person to lead a socially and economically productive life. Health For All implies the removal of the obstacles to health – that is to say, the elimination of malnutrition, ignorance, contaminated drinking water and unhygienic housing – quite as much as it does the solution of purely medical problems such as a lack of doctors, hospital beds, drugs and vaccines.\n\nThe adoption of Health For All by government, implies a commitment to promote the advancement of all citizens on a broad front of development and a resolution to encourage the individual citizen to achieve a higher quality of life.\n\nThe rate of progress will depend on the political will. The World Health Assembly believes that, given a high degree of determination, Health For All could be attained by the year 2000. That target date is a challenge to all WHO's Member States.\n\nThe basis of the Health For All strategy is primary health care.\n\nTwo decades later, WHO Director General Lee Jong-wook (2003–2006) reaffirmed the concept in the \"World Health Report 2003\":\nHealth for all became the slogan for a movement. It was not just an ideal but an organizing principle: everybody needs and is entitled to the highest possible standard of health. The principles remain indispensable for a coherent vision of global health. Turning that vision into reality calls for clarity both on the possibilities and on the obstacles that have slowed and in some cases reversed progress towards meeting the health needs of all people. We have a real opportunity now to make progress that will mean longer, healthier lives for millions of people, turn despair into realistic hope, and lay the foundations for improved health for generations to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "49161220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49161220", "title": "J. Aidan Carney", "text": "J. Aidan Carney\n\nJ Aidan Carney born 1934 in County Roscommon, Ireland, is a pathologist associated with the Mayo Clinic. He is best known for describing what became known as Carney syndrome, the separate phenomenon of Carney's triad, and Carney-Stratakis syndrome.\n\nHe graduated in medicine from University College Dublin in 1959, and interned in St. Vincent’s. After further work in Dublin he moved to the Mayo Clinic in 1962, becoming consultant there in 1966. His doctorate at the University of Minnesota in 1969 was on the \"Morphology of Myosin and Thick Filament Diameter in Experimental Cardiac Hypertrophy.\"\n"}
{"id": "159901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159901", "title": "Jacques Herbrand", "text": "Jacques Herbrand\n\nJacques Herbrand (12 February 1908 – 27 July 1931) was a French mathematician. Although he died at age 23, he was already considered one of \"the greatest mathematicians of the younger generation\" by his professors Helmut Hasse, and Richard Courant.\n\nHe worked in mathematical logic and class field theory. He introduced recursive functions. \"Herbrand's theorem\" refers to either of two completely different theorems. One is a result from his doctoral thesis in proof theory, and the other one half of the Herbrand–Ribet theorem. The Herbrand quotient is a type of Euler characteristic, used in homological algebra. He contributed to Hilbert's program in the foundations of mathematics by providing a constructive consistency proof for a weak system of arithmetic. The proof uses the above-mentioned, proof-theoretic Herbrand's theorem.\n\nHerbrand finished his doctorate at École Normale Supérieure in Paris under Ernest Vessiot in 1929. He joined the army in October 1929, however, and so did not defend his thesis at the Sorbonne until the following year. He was awarded a Rockefeller fellowship that enabled him to study in Germany in 1931, first with John von Neumann in Berlin, then during June with Emil Artin in Hamburg, and finally with Emmy Noether in Göttingen.\n\nHe submitted his principal study of proof theory and general recursive functions \"On the consistency of arithmetic\" early in 1931. While the essay was under consideration, Gödel's \"On formally undecidable sentences of \"Principia Mathematica\" and related systems I\" announced the impossibility of formalizing within a theory that theory's consistency proof. Herbrand studied Gödel's essay and wrote an appendix to his own study explaining why Gödel's result did not contradict his own. In July of that year he was mountain-climbing in the French Alps with two friends when he fell to his death in the granite mountains of Massif des Écrins. \"On the consistency of arithmetic\" was published posthumously.\n\n\"Jacques Herbrand would have hated Bourbaki\" said French mathematician Claude Chevalley quoted in Michèle Chouchan, \"Nicolas Bourbaki Faits et légendes\", Éditions du choix, 1995.\n\nPrimary literature:\n\n"}
{"id": "44742736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44742736", "title": "Joseph Zubin", "text": "Joseph Zubin\n\nJoseph Zubin (9 October 1900 – 18 December 1990) was a Lithuanian born American educational psychologist and an authority on schizophrenia who is commemorated by the Joseph Zubin Awards.\n\nZubin was born October 9, 1900 in Raseiniai, Lithuania, but moved to the USA in 1908 and grew up in Baltimore. His first degree was in chemistry at Johns Hopkins University in 1921, and he earned a PhD in educational psychology at Columbia University in 1932. In 1934 he married Winifred Anderson (who survived him) and they had three children (2 sons, David and Jonathan, and a daughter, Winfred). At his death on December 18, 1990, he had seven grandchildren.\n\nZubin was President of both the American Psychopathological Association (1951-2) and the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology (1971-2) and received numerous awards for his work. In 1946 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n"}
{"id": "36599548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36599548", "title": "Juan Pío Manzano", "text": "Juan Pío Manzano\n\nJuan Pío Manzano Fajardo (1817–1901) was a Mexican physician and politician, who was born and died in Valladolid, Yucatán. He was governor of Yucatán from 1889 to 1890.\n"}
{"id": "12136950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12136950", "title": "Jukes family", "text": "Jukes family\n\nThe Jukes family was a New York \"hill family\" studied in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The studies are part of a series of other family studies, including the Kallikaks, the Zeros and the Nams, that were often quoted as arguments in support of eugenics, though the original Jukes study, by Richard L. Dugdale, placed considerable emphasis on the environment as a determining factor in criminality, disease and poverty (euthenics).\n\nElisha Harris, a doctor and former president of the American Public Health Association, published reports that Margaret, in Upstate New York, was the \"mother of criminals\" and he described her children as \"a race of criminals, paupers and harlots\".\nIn 1874, sociologist Richard L. Dugdale, a member of the executive committee of the Prison Association of New York, and a colleague of Harris' was delegated to visit jails in upstate New York. In a jail in Ulster County he found six members of the same \"Juke\" family (a pseudonym), though they were using four different family names. On investigation he found that, of 29 male \"immediate blood relations\", 17 had been arrested, and 15 convicted of crimes.\n\nHe studied the records of inmates of the thirteen county jails in New York State, as well as poorhouses and courts, while researching the New York hill family's ancestry in an effort to find the basis for their criminality. His book claimed Max, a frontiersman who was the descendant of early Dutch settlers and who was born between 1720 and 1740, had been the ancestor of more than 76 convicted criminals, 18 brothel-keepers, 120 prostitutes, over 200 relief recipients, and 2 cases of \"feeble-mindedness\".\n\nMany of the criminals could also be linked to \"Margaret, the Mother of Criminals\", renamed \"Ada\" in his report, who had married one of Max's sons. Dugdale created detailed genealogical charts and concluded that poverty, disease, and criminality plagued the family. Dugdale estimated to the New York legislature that the family had cost the state $1,308,000. He published his findings in \"The Jukes: A Study in Crime, Pauperism, Disease and Heredity\" in 1877.\nDugdale debated the relative contribution of environment and heredity and concluded that the family's poor environment was largely to blame for their behavior: \"environment tends to produce habits which may become hereditary\" (page 66). He noted that the Jukes were not a single family, but a composite of 42 families and that only 540 of his 709 subjects were apparently related by blood.\n\nHe urged public welfare changes and improvements in the environment in order to prevent criminality, poverty and disease, writing: \"public health and infant education... are the two legs upon which the general morality of the future must travel\"(page 119). The book was widely read in the nineteenth century and stimulated discussion about the roles of heredity and environment. The term \"Juke\" became, along with \"Kallikaks\" and \"Nams\" (other case studies of a similar nature), a cultural shorthand for the rural poor in the South and Northeast United States. \nLegal historian Paul A. Lombardo states that very soon the Jukes family study was turned into a \"genetic morality tale\" which combined religious notions of the sins of the father and eugenic pseudoscience.\n\nA follow-up study was published by Arthur H. Estabrook of the Eugenics Record Office at Cold Spring Harbor, New York in 1916 as \"The Jukes in 1915\". Estabrook noted that Dugdale's conclusions were that the 1877 study \"does not demonstrate the inheritance of criminality, pauperism, or harlotry, but it does show that heredity with certain environmental conditions determines criminality, harlotry, and pauperism\". Estabrook reanalyzed Dugdale's data and updated it to include 2,820 persons, adding 2,111 Jukes to the 709 studied by Dugdale. He claimed that the living Jukes were costing the public at least $2 million.\n\nEstabrook's data suggested that the family had actually shown fewer problems over time, but he pronounced that the Jukes family were \"unredeemed\" and suffering from just as much \"feeblemindedness, indolence, licentiousness and dishonesty\" as they had been in the past. Strongly emphasizing heredity, Estabrook's conclusions reversed Dugdale's argument about the environment, proposing that such families be prevented from reproducing, since no amount of environmental changes could alter their genetic inheritance towards criminality.\n\nPhotographs of members of the Jukes family and their homes as well as family trees of some branches of the Jukes family were displayed at the Second International Congress of Eugenics, held at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City in 1921. \nHistorians have noted that Dugdale's conclusions have been misused by subsequent generations: \"Estabrook's version is the one that carried the day. After 1915, the Jukes cames to symbolize the futility of social change and the need for eugenic segregations and sterilization\". \nAmerican scientists, doctors, politicians, clergy and the legal profession all embraced the eugenic movement, and the Jukes family research was used as evidence in Buck v. Bell a 1927 US Supreme Court case which made forced sterilizations legal in the United States. In the 1930s eugenics was widely repudiated by geneticists, and after the Nazi World War II eugenics program became known, its influence died out.\n\nResearch in the 1960s pointed out fundamental problems with the studies, such as the subjects were not one family and not necessarily related. In addition, the attempt to link a trait such as poverty to genetic makeup, ignoring environmental issues, has been \"totally discredited\", as noted by geneticist Andrés Ruiz Linares in a 2011 historical review.\n\nIn 2001 a poorhouse graveyard was discovered in New Paltz, in Ulster County. Some of the unmarked graves belonged to members of the so-called Jukes family. Further information was found in the archives at the State University of New York at Albany and in records of a forgotten Ulster County poorhouse. A code book, labeled \"classified\", was found and listed the real surnames of the \"Jukes\" family. Hundreds of names were listed, including Plough, Miller, DuBois, Clearwater, Bank and Bush. Max, the \"founder\", was identified as Max Keyser.\nHowever, \"the mythology of so-called 'genetically problematic families' is still with us,\" said Paul A. Lombardo of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia. \"Even today, the Jukeses seem to be getting a third life on the Internet as we see some religious and political groups invoking them as examples of inherited immorality.\"\n"}
{"id": "39740298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39740298", "title": "Kalipada Pahan", "text": "Kalipada Pahan\n\nKalipada Pahan is a Professor of Neurological Sciences, Biochemistry and Pharmacology, and the Floyd A. Davis, M.D., Endowed Chair in Neurology in Rush University Medical Center. He is also a Veterans Affairs (VA) Scientist at the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center. He is an eminent Indian American neuroscientist involved in translational research on multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, dementia, and Batten disease. He is known for his research on statins, cholesterol-lowering drugs. He first explored the application of statins in suppressing the inflammatory events in microglia, astroglia and macrophages. This finding has revolutionized the research on statin drugs. Later his lab has shown that statins may be beneficial in protecting neurons and improving locomotor activities in Parkinson's disease by suppressing the activation of p21/Ras. His lab is also famous for research on cinnamon where they have described that this commonly-used natural spice may be beneficial for different brain disorders including improving memory and learning of poor learners. Recently his lab has delineated a unique crosstalk between fat and memory in which the lipid-lowering transcription factor PPARalpha controls the formation of hippocampal memory via transcriptional regulation of CREB (Roy et al., 2013, Cell Reports 4: 724-737), suggesting a possible reason for the connection between excess belly fat and memory loss.\n\nHe has written many book chapters and published more than 160 papers in many peer-reviewed journals including Journal of Biological Chemistry, Journal of Immunology, Journal of Neuroscience, Cell Death and Differentiation, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA, Journal of Clinical Investigation, Cell Reports, Cell Metabolism, and Nature Chemical Biology. He is the recipient of \"D. H. Reinhardt Scholar\" award from the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) College of Dentistry, the \"Silver U\" award from the UNMC Chancellor's council, and the outstanding teaching award from the UNMC College of Dentistry. He also received the Zenith Fellows Award from the Alzheimer's Association.\n"}
{"id": "20227013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20227013", "title": "Kashinhou", "text": "Kashinhou\n\nKashinhou (化審法), short for , (\"Law Concerning the Examination and Regulation of Manufacture, etc. of Chemical Substances\") (Showa Act No. 117, 昭和48年法律第117号) is the current Chemicals and dangerous substances regulation law in Japan. The more concise abbreviated name is , or \"Chemical Substances Control Law\". This law featured the world's first new chemical pre-examination system.\n\nThis law was established to provide a framework to examine the import, manufacture, and use of industrial chemicals and refractory organic substances for persistence and health consequences, as well as the necessary legal restrictions in order to achieve those aims.\n\nThe law has its origins in 1968, with an illness related to polychlorinated biphenyls poisoning in the Kanemi Oil Incident. In 1973, this law was established, radically overturning a prevailing attitude that long term contaminants bioaccumulating in humans was not problematic. Refractory organic substances, highly enriched uranium, and substances that possess long term toxicity to humans were classified as Section 1 Chemical Substances. Section 1 items were banned from manufacture or importation.\n\nIn 1986, a Section 2 Chemical Substances was added, which included trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene, which had contaminated groundwater. Questionable chemical substances that did not fall into above categories were introduced into a Section 2 Questionable Chemical substances category.\n\nIn 1999, the government ministries were reorganized, and the Ministry of the Environment was added as an overseer to the precursor ministries of the current Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.\n\nIn 2003, under pressure from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, a third Section was created to surveillance of chemical substances harmful to flora and fauna but not to humans.\n\nRegulation, policing, and surveillance of other laws, namely the Poisonous and Deleterious Substance Control Law, Stimulant Control Law, and Narcotics and Psychotropics Control Law were transferred to the current ministries as mentioned above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55454213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55454213", "title": "Kedung Ombo Dam", "text": "Kedung Ombo Dam\n\nKedung Ombo Reservoir is one of the major reservoirs in Indonesia . It is located on the border of three regencies in Central Java Province namely Grobogan Regency , Sragen Regency and Boyolali Regency precisely in District Geyer , Grobogan District . The main dam of Kedungombo Reservoir is located on the border of Rambat Village and Juworo Village , Geyer Sub-District , Grobogan District . This reservoir uses Serang River as its main source of water for a moment with the Uter / Sungai Kombo / Banjaran River. Other water sources are supplied from several large and small rivers that supply water to Kedungombo Reservoir, including Braholo River, Central River, Nglanji River, Tapen River and Sambas River.\nIn 1985 the government planned to build a new reservoir in Central Java for a 22.5 Megawatt (MW) power plant and could accommodate water for the surrounding 70 Hectare rice fields. The construction of Kedungombo Reservoir is funded by USD 156 million from the World Bank, USD 25.2 million from Japan Exim Bank, and APBN, starting from 1985 until 1989. The reservoir began to be irrigated on January 14, 1989. Cangkupan puddle reservoir reaches 6,576 hectares (Waters 2,830 hectares and land area 3.746 hectares) by drowning 37 villages, 7 districts in 3 districts, namely Sragen, Boyolali, Grobogan. A total of 5,268 families at that time lost their land due to the construction of this dam. This reservoir was finally inaugurated by President Soeharto, May 18, 1991. Events refusal of displacement and resettlement of residential location by residents because the land will be used as Reservoir Kedungombo because the small amount of compensation is given known as Kedung Ombo Case.\n"}
{"id": "53906692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53906692", "title": "List of occupational safety and health agencies", "text": "List of occupational safety and health agencies\n\nThis is a geographically sorted list of national and subnational government agencies focusing on occupational safety and health. Subnational agencies are indented and listed after the corresponding national agencies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42626607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42626607", "title": "Maldivian Medical Association", "text": "Maldivian Medical Association\n\nThe Maldivian Medical Association was founded on 16 October 2005 in the Maldives as the first independent body representing Maldives medical doctors. It aims to improve medical services and to develop professionalism amongst Maldivian doctors. Its president is Abdulla Afeef.\n"}
{"id": "4526115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526115", "title": "Melun Act of 1851", "text": "Melun Act of 1851\n\nIn France, the Melun Act (1850–1851) was one of the first laws regarding Public Health. It was presented by the Viscount André de Melun.\n\nIt introduced a range of measures regarding unhealthy and unfit for habitations buildings. The law was actually optional, and was only fully applied in Paris by Baron Haussmann.\n"}
{"id": "22022246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22022246", "title": "Minimal intervention dentistry", "text": "Minimal intervention dentistry\n\nMinimal intervention dentistry is a modern dental practice designed around the principal aim of preservation of as much of the natural tooth structure as possible. It uses a disease-centric philosophy that directs attention to first control and management of the disease that causes tooth decay—dental caries—and then to relief of the residual symptoms it has left behind—the decayed teeth. The approach uses similar principles for prevention of future caries, and is intended to be a complete management solution for tooth decay.\n\nClassical restorative dentistry has traditionally followed the century old approach of GV Black in classification and treatment of tooth decay. This was based on very limited knowledge at the time about the pathology of the underlying dental caries disease, and the need to specially prepare a cavity to repair a lesion (decayed area) with the limited available materials. Therefore, the only approach was to treat the symptoms—to remove the decay and restore the tooth surgically. Modern science has since allowed for better understanding of the pathology, thus opening the door for new methodologies and approaches to treatment. The practice of minimal intervention dentistry was designed to utilise these new possibilities by implementing a disease-centric philosophy to management of tooth decay. While advances in dental science are of course used in mainstream dental practice, MI dentistry has redesigned the treatment guidelines beginning with a new classification of caries lesions. This classification was intended to reflect the possibility of curing the disease and remineralising (hardening) early lesions before irreversible damage has been done. It was first published by Mount and Hume in 1997 and has subsequently been revised.\n\nSome see MI dentistry as merely a philosophical change, but since the practice has been in mainstream discussion in the late 90s it has acquired some respectable international academic backing.\n\nThe approach of minimal intervention dentistry is centred on management of the dental caries disease responsible for tooth decay, first \"controlling and curing\" the disease, then \"restoring\" the tooth, filling only where necessary, and finally \"prevention\" from future caries.\n\nClassical dietary and oral hygiene techniques of reducing sugar content and eating frequency, and removing plaque by effective brushing, are still very important practices for treatment as well as prevention. Also, biochemical techniques can be used to treat the bacterial infection directly. Agents such as chlorhexidine can help fight gum disease and thus reduce the amount of bacteria in the mouth that are responsible for tooth decay. After a wave of empirical studies on the efficacy of Xylitol (a sugar alcohol) a consensus report in the \"British Dental Journal\" considered it to give a reduction in the risk of caries. There is also increasing use of newer technologies such as \"photo-activated disinfection\" and treating with ozone.\n\nThere is also an aspect of minimising the effect of the caries to control the symptoms of decay. Constant \"remineralisation\" (hardening) with continuous application of fluoride toothpaste is highly common practice that reduces the impact of the caries on decay. Changing the biochemical properties of saliva, potentially through the use of appropriate drugs, can help the buffering capacity of the saliva to resist changes in pH caused by plaque acid, resisting the acid attack caused by the active caries.\n\nDecay is the process or result of \"demineralisation\" (softening) of an area of dental tissue, creating a decayed \"lesion\" on the tooth. The process of restoring decay begins with an analysis of the decayed lesions together with their location and severity, with particular regard to the state of reversibility. Where decay is reversible, it is referred to as \"non-cavitated\" decay, where healing is possible by the hardening process of \"remineralisation\". Where a \"cavity\" has formed from excessive demineralisation, the decay has reached the point of no return where the tooth structure has been lost and the decay is permanent and non-reversible. In this situation of \"cavitated\" decay, the cavity will have to be filled to restore the tooth. Minimal intervention dentistry is focused on filling only cavitated regions, leaving non-cavitated decay to be remineralised, thus restoring the tooth while removing as little of the tooth structure as possible, enhancing the strength and aesthetics of the restoration. Classifications of the location and severity of decay are made in order to establish guidelines for suitable treatment methods.\n\nThe minimal intervention approach to classification was originally introduced by GJ Mount and RW Hume in \"“A new classification for dentistry”\", and later modified by other journal articles and books mainly by Mount and Hume. This classification aims to provide a useful guide to the clinical approach required in treatment, depending on the characteristics of the lesion. The first stage is to determine cavitation, then followed by determining the restorative approach to any cavitated areas, with suitable treatment for remineralisation of the non-cavitated areas.\n\nVarious techniques exists for remineralisation, varying from simple application of fluoride to using special substances for filling materials that interact with the tooth to aid the process from within. Glass Ionomer Cements (GICs) have been shown to undergo ion exchange with the surrounding tooth structure, and also engage in fluoride feeding. Research by Prof. Hien Ngo and others has shown that these methods can in practice heal some non-cavitated lesions.\n\nThe same methods for cure of the disease can be used for prevention, as well as other techniques such as the use of fissure sealants in high risk individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7265184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7265184", "title": "Minister for Youth Protection and Rehabilitation (Quebec)", "text": "Minister for Youth Protection and Rehabilitation (Quebec)\n\nThe Minister of Youth Protection and Rehabilitation (Quebec) (French: Ministre déléguée à la Protection de la jeunesse et à la Réadaptation) is responsible for the protection of youths and youth legal affairs in the province of Quebec.\n\nIn Québec, the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms recognizes the fundamental rights and freedoms of all individuals, whatever their age. These rights include:\nIn addition, the Charter specifically recognizes that every child has a right to the protection, security and attention that his or her parents, or the persons acting in their stead, are capable of providing.\n\nThe Youth Protection Act came into force in 1979. In 1995, the Commission, in addition to the duties defined in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, was made responsible for taking action to ensure respect for the rights of children and adolescents, as defined in the Youth Protection Act.\n\nThe Youth Criminal Justice Act applies to young people aged 12 to 17 who commit an offence under the Criminal Code or another federal law (theft, vandalism, break and enter, possession of drugs, etc.).\n"}
{"id": "22184522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22184522", "title": "Mucinous cystadenoma", "text": "Mucinous cystadenoma\n\nMucinous cystadenoma is a benign cystic tumor lined by a mucinous epithelium. It is a type of cystic adenoma (cystadenoma).\n\nMucinous cystadenomata may arise in a number of locations; however, mucinous cystadenoma at different locations are not generally considered to be related to one another.\n\nMucinous cystadenomas may be found in the: \n\n\nMucinous cystadenomas make up 15–20% of all ovarian tumors. They often become very large and can extend up into the abdomen. \n\nThese tumors are usually evaluated using ultrasound, CT scan, or MRI. Findings on imaging studies are nonspecific. These ovarian tumors are usually multi-septated, cystic masses with thin walls. They also contain varying amounts of solid tissue which consists of proliferating stromal tissue, papillae, or malignant tumor cells. \n\nBenign mucinous cystadenomas compose 80% of mucinous ovarian tumors and 20–25% of benign ovarian tumors overall. The peak incidence occurs between 30 and 50 years of age. Benign tumors are bilateral in 5–10% of cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "783106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=783106", "title": "NHS trust", "text": "NHS trust\n\nA National Health Service trust is an organisation within the English NHS generally serving either a geographical area or a specialised function (such as an ambulance service). In any particular location there may be several trusts involved in the different aspects of healthcare for a resident.\nNHS trusts were established under the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990 and were set up in five waves. Each one was established by a Statutory Instrument.\n\nThe trusts are not trusts in the legal sense but are in effect public sector corporations. Each trust is headed by a board consisting of executive and non-executive directors, and is chaired by a non-executive director. There were about 2,200 non-executives across 470 organisations in the NHS in England in 2015. Non-executive directors are recruited by open advertisement. All trusts (Foundation trusts and those which have yet to reach foundation trust status) are regulated by NHS Improvement. Board members are, from November 2014, subject to a Fit and proper person test.\n\nAll trust boards are required to have an audit committee consisting only of non-executive directors, on which the chair may not sit. This committee is entrusted not only with supervision of financial audit, but of systems of corporate governance within the trust. Hospital board members have a duty to act on signals of poor performance on quality and safety data, and yet many of the papers presented to them have been found to be lacking good data visualisations.\n\nIn September 2015 Jeremy Hunt was reported as saying “I think we do have too many trusts as independent organisations\" in a context where mergers between trusts and the establishment of chains of hospitals were being discussed. Subsequently Simon Stevens made it clear that he did not expect the remaining NHS trusts to become Foundation Trusts, saying \"We are frankly kidding ourselves if we think the non-FTs are going to pass the kinds of criteria that have been set by Monitor.\"\n\nThere are several types of NHS trusts: \n\n\nOver time the distinction between different types has eroded, and both hospital and mental health trusts have taken on responsibility for various community services. Sustainability and transformation plans all propose to move services out of hospitals into the community and the hospital trusts are generally planning to follow these initiatives.\n\nFoundation trust status may be applied for by the above categories of NHS trust. Successive governments have announced that all NHS Trusts should become NHS Foundation Trusts, and deadlines have been set for this transformation, which have repeatedly been missed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15095679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15095679", "title": "National Herbal Park", "text": "National Herbal Park\n\nThe National Herbal Park () is a park located near the Naypyidaw-Taungnyo Road in Naypyidaw, Myanmar. Over 20,000 herbal and medicinal plants, representing over 700 species from the various states and divisions of Myanmar, are grown in the park. The herbal park is part of the government's efforts to protect and preserve the herbs from depletion and extinction and to keep alive the country's traditional system of medicines. It opened on 4 January 2008. There is no entry fee.\n\n"}
{"id": "53857825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53857825", "title": "Noble’s Hospital", "text": "Noble’s Hospital\n\nNoble’s Hospital, the only hospital on the Isle of Man, is run by the Department of Health of the Isle of Man Government.\n\nIn 1947 the hospital had 137 beds with an average occupancy of 122 patients. The Cubbon Wing, for chronically sick patients, financed by the estate of the late Thomas Cubbon, was added in 1951. A new Nurses' Home was built in 1953. At the end of 1955, there was a waiting list for admission of 279 patients. Some patients had to be transferred to the White Hoe.\n\nThe hospital relocated in 2003 from its previous location at Westmoreland Road into a new building constructed on a greenfield site at the outskirts of the main town of Douglas.\n\nThere are 20 wards with 314 beds. Tertiary services are handled by NHS trusts in the North West of England. The pharmacy budget, which also covers Ramsey and District Cottage Hospital, Mental Health Services, Hospice Isle of Man, Community Nursing, Chiropody, Family Planning, Dental Clinics and the School Health Advisors is £2,500,000\n\nIt has been using the Medway patient administration system provided by System C since 2015. It has an electronic document management system with more than 100,000 records. The electronic record system extends to mental health, community, GP and social care services. It is intended to remove paper records by the end of 2018.\n\nIn 2014 the West Midlands Quality Review Service found that the critical care department was underperforming with a \"culture of blame\".\n\nThe hospital has a Patient Experience and Quality Committee with 12 members which has led initiatives in raising awareness about the importance of hydration, patient safety, and infection control.\n"}
{"id": "30447031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30447031", "title": "Pharmaceutical Press", "text": "Pharmaceutical Press\n\nPharmaceutical Press is the publishing arm of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (formerly the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain). It is a provider of independent pharmaceutical information. \n\nIts principal publishing focus is the design, manufacture and therapeutic use of medicines, as well as the professional concerns of those working to ensure their safe administration and use. Its international catalogue contains more than 150 print and digital works, with a range of products consisting of reference works, textbooks, professional titles and subscription products.\n\nThe most renowned resources include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26592735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26592735", "title": "Physique 57", "text": "Physique 57\n\nPhysique 57 is a fitness company founded in 2006 and headquartered in New York City. The company offers barre classes through its exercise studios in New York, Los Angeles, Dubai and Bangkok and retails its own line of fitness DVDs and online workouts through its website and in retailers including Lululemon Athletica, Lorna Jane Active and Norma Kamali.\n\nThe company's first book \"The Physique 57 Solution: The Groundbreaking 2-Week Plan for a Lean, Beautiful Body\" was released in 2012. In 2010, Physique 57 was named as No. 377 in \"Inc.\" Magazine's list of the 500 fastest growing companies in America.\n\nThere are nine Physique 57 locations. The flagship studio is located in New York City at 24 W 57th Street. The second New York City location is at 161 Avenue of the Americas and the third location in New York City is at 2109 Broadway on the Upper West Side. The fourth studio is located in Bridgehampton at 264 Butter Lane Barn. The Beverly Hills, California, studio opened in June 2010 and is located at 320 North Cañon Drive. Physique 57 opened a studio in Dubai at Citywalk in the summer of 2013 and then another one in 2015 at Al Thanya Mall. In 2014, Physique 57 opened its second international studio in Bangkok in the Erawan Bangkok Building. In January 2016, Physique 57 opened its fourth New York City location in the Financial District, at 55 Broadway.\n\nCelebrity clients include Alessandra Ambrosio, Erin Andrews, Emmy Rossum, Demi Moore, Chrissy Teigen, Parker Posey and Mary Louise Parker among many others.\n\nPhysique 57 is a fitness studio, fitness DVD producer and distributor. Launched in 2006, Physique 57 owns and operates nine studios in New York City, the Hamptons, Los Angeles, Dubai and Bangkok.\n\nPhysique 57 co-founder Jennifer Vaughan Maanavi is a dance enthusiast, Columbia MBA and former Wall Street professional. In 2005, upon the sudden closing of The Lotte Berk Method (a fitness studio that offered the eponymous technique created in the 1950s by a former ballet dancer) Jennifer realized that she and other Lotte Berk followers needed a new home. Teaming up with Tanya Becker, one of the foremost instructors of The Lotte Berk Method for over a decade, Physique 57 was born.\n\nIn February 2006, Physique 57 began at 24 W. 57th Street in New York City, United States.\n\nThe Bridgehampton outpost opened in Lotte Berk’s former space at 264 Butter Lane Barn. In the fall of 2007, the Spring Street location in Soho’s historic Butterick building.\n\nIn June 2010, Physique 57 Beverly Hills launched its studio just steps from Rodeo Drive, and was honored as Best New Fitness Class by Los Angeles Magazine.\n\nIn August 2011, Physique 57 opened its third Manhattan, NY, studio on the Upper West Side, in the famous Ansonia.\n\nIn November 2012, Physique 57 raised the barre again by launching an online workout program, giving clients around the world the chance to benefit from their signature workouts – anywhere, anytime.\n\nIn the summer of 2013, Physique 57 opened its first international studio in Dubai.\n\nIn 2014, Physique 57 opened its second international studio in Bangkok.\n\nIn 2015, Physique 57 opened another international studio in Dubai.\n\nIn January 2016, Physique 57 opened its fourth Manhattan, NY, studio in the Financial District.\n\nIn June 2009, Physique 57 launched its first DVD Workout Series. In December 2010, building on the success of the award winning and best-selling Volume 1 results, the Physique 57 DVD Workout Series Volume 2 was released.\n\nIn 2013, Physique 57 partnered with Fox Sports' Erin Andrews to bring a new online workout, Physique's Get Fit Quick featuring Erin Andrews, to their online workout program.\n\nIn January 2012, Co-Founders Tanya Becker and Jennifer Maanavi wrote their first book, \"The Physique 57 Solution: The Groundbreaking 2-Week Plan for a Lean, Beautiful Body\". This combination of a workout with an effective meal plan, created a two-week program from which readers quickly dropped pounds and lost up to 10 inches.\n\n"}
{"id": "3321981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3321981", "title": "Polyunsaturated fatty acid", "text": "Polyunsaturated fatty acid\n\nPolyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are fatty acids that contain more than one double bond in their backbone. This class includes many important compounds, such as essential fatty acids and those that give drying oils their characteristic property.\n\nPolyunsaturated fatty acids can be classified in various groups by their chemical structure:\n\nThese fatty acids have 2 or more \"cis\" double bonds that are separated from each other by a single methylene bridge (--). This form is also sometimes called a \"divinylmethane pattern\".\n\nThe essential fatty acids are all omega-3 and -6 methylene-interrupted fatty acids. \"See more at Essential fatty acids—Nomenclature\"\n\n\"The biological effects of the ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids are largely mediated by their mutual interactions, see Essential fatty acid interactions for detail.\"\n"}
{"id": "6531493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6531493", "title": "Protein (nutrient)", "text": "Protein (nutrient)\n\nProteins are essential nutrients for the human body. They are one of the building blocks of body tissue and can also serve as a fuel source. As a fuel, proteins provide as much energy density as carbohydrates: 4 kcal (17 kJ) per gram; in contrast, lipids provide 9 kcal (37 kJ) per gram. The most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition.\n\nProteins are polymer chains made of amino acids linked together by peptide bonds. During human digestion, proteins are broken down in the stomach to smaller polypeptide chains via hydrochloric acid and protease actions. This is crucial for the absorption of the essential amino acids that cannot be biosynthesized by the body.\n\nThere are nine essential amino acids which humans must obtain from their diet in order to prevent protein-energy malnutrition and resulting death. They are phenylalanine, valine, threonine, tryptophan, methionine, leucine, isoleucine, lysine, and histidine. There has been debate as to whether there are 8 or 9 essential amino acids. The consensus seems to lean towards 9 since histidine is not synthesized in adults. There are five amino acids which humans are able to synthesize in the body. These five are alanine, aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamic acid and serine. There are six conditionally essential amino acids whose synthesis can be limited under special pathophysiological conditions, such as prematurity in the infant or individuals in severe catabolic distress. These six are arginine, cysteine, glycine, glutamine, proline and tyrosine.\n\nDietary sources of protein include both animals and plants: meats, dairy products, fish and eggs, as well as grains, legumes and nuts. Vegans can get enough essential amino acids by eating plant proteins.\n\nProtein is a nutrient needed by the human body for growth and maintenance. Aside from water, proteins are the most abundant kind of molecules in the body. Protein can be found in all cells of the body and is the major structural component of all cells in the body, especially muscle. This also includes body organs, hair and skin. Proteins are also used in membranes, such as glycoproteins. When broken down into amino acids, they are used as precursors to nucleic acid, co-enzymes, hormones, immune response, cellular repair, and other molecules essential for life. Additionally, protein is needed to form blood cells.\n\nProtein can be found in a wide range of food. The best combination of protein sources depends on the region of the world, access, cost, amino acid types and nutrition balance, as well as acquired tastes. Some foods are high in certain amino acids, but their digestibility and the anti-nutritional factors present in these foods make them of limited value in human nutrition. Therefore, one must consider digestibility and secondary nutrition profile such as calories, cholesterol, vitamins and essential mineral density of the protein source. On a worldwide basis, plant protein foods contribute over 60 percent of the per capita supply of protein, on average. In North America, animal-derived foods contribute about 70 percent of protein sources.\n\nMeat, products from milk, eggs, soy, and fish are sources of complete protein.\n\nWhole grains and cereals are another source of proteins. However, these tend to be limiting in the amino acid lysine or threonine, which are available in other vegetarian sources and meats. Examples of food staples and cereal sources of protein, each with a concentration greater than 7.0%, are (in no particular order) buckwheat, oats, rye, millet, maize (corn), rice, wheat, sorghum, amaranth, and quinoa.\n\nVegetarian sources of proteins include legumes, nuts, seeds and fruits. Legumes, some of which are called pulses in certain parts of the world, have higher concentrations of amino acids and are more complete sources of protein than whole grains and cereals. Examples of vegetarian foods with protein concentrations greater than 7 percent include soybeans, lentils, kidney beans, white beans, mung beans, chickpeas, cowpeas, lima beans, pigeon peas, lupines, wing beans, almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, pecans, walnuts, cotton seeds, pumpkin seeds, hemp seeds, sesame seeds, and sunflower seeds.\n\nFood staples that are poor sources of protein include roots and tubers such as yams, cassava and sweet potato. Plantains, another major staple, are also a poor source of essential amino acids. Fruits, while rich in other essential nutrients, are another poor source of amino acids. The protein content in roots, tubers and fruits is between 0 and 2 percent. Food staples with low protein content must be complemented with foods with complete, quality protein content for a healthy life, particularly in children for proper development.\n\nA good source of protein is often a combination of various foods, because different foods are rich in different amino acids. A good source of dietary protein meets two requirements:\n\nHealthy people eating a balanced diet rarely need protein supplements.\n\nThe table below presents the most important food groups as protein sources, from a worldwide perspective. It also lists their respective performance as source of the commonly limiting amino acids, in milligrams of limiting amino acid per gram of total protein in the food source. The table reiterates the need for a balanced mix of foods to ensure adequate amino acid source.\n\nProtein powders – such as casein, whey, egg, rice and soy – are processed and manufactured sources of protein. These protein powders may provide an additional source of protein for bodybuilders. The type of protein is important in terms of its influence on protein metabolic response and possibly on the muscle's exercise performance. The different physical and/or chemical properties within the various types of protein may affect the rate of protein digestion. As a result, the amino acid availability and the accumulation of tissue protein is altered because of the various protein metabolic responses.\n\nThe classic assays for protein concentration in food are the Kjeldahl method and the Dumas method. These tests determine the total nitrogen in a sample. The only major component of most food which contains nitrogen is protein (fat, carbohydrate and dietary fiber do not contain nitrogen). If the amount of nitrogen is multiplied by a factor depending on the kinds of protein expected in the food the total protein can be determined. This value is known as the \"crude protein\" content. On food labels the protein is given by the nitrogen multiplied by 6.25, because the average nitrogen content of proteins is about 16%. The Kjeldahl test is typically used because it is the method the AOAC International has adopted and is therefore used by many food standards agencies around the world, though the Dumas method is also approved by some standards organizations.\n\nAccidental contamination and intentional adulteration of protein meals with non-protein nitrogen sources that inflate crude protein content measurements have been known to occur in the food industry for decades. To ensure food quality, purchasers of protein meals routinely conduct quality control tests designed to detect the most common non-protein nitrogen contaminants, such as urea and ammonium nitrate.\n\nIn at least one segment of the food industry, the dairy industry, some countries (at least the U.S., Australia, France and Hungary) have adopted \"true protein\" measurement, as opposed to crude protein measurement, as the standard for payment and testing: \"True protein is a measure of only the proteins in milk, whereas crude protein is a measure of all sources of nitrogen and includes nonprotein nitrogen, such as urea, which has no food value to humans. ... Current milk-testing equipment measures peptide bonds, a direct measure of true protein.\" Measuring peptide bonds in grains has also been put into practice in several countries including Canada, the UK, Australia, Russia and Argentina where near-infrared reflectance (NIR) technology, a type of infrared spectroscopy is used. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) recommends that only amino acid analysis be used to determine protein in, \"inter alia\", foods used as the sole source of nourishment, such as infant formula, but also provides: \"When data on amino acids analyses are not available, determination of protein based on total N content by Kjeldahl (AOAC, 2000) or similar method ... is considered acceptable.\"\n\nThe testing method for protein in beef cattle feed has grown into a science over the post-war years. The standard text in the United States, \"Nutrient Requirements of Beef Cattle\", has been through eight editions over at least seventy years. The 1996 sixth edition substituted for the fifth edition's \"crude protein\" the concept of \"metabolizeable protein\", which was defined around the year 2000 as \"the \"true protein\" absorbed by the intestine, supplied by microbial protein and undegraded intake protein\".\n\nThe limitations of the Kjeldahl method were at the heart of the Chinese protein export contamination in 2007 and the 2008 China milk scandal in which the industrial chemical melamine was added to the milk or glutens to increase the measured \"protein\".\n\nThe most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition. There are multiple systems which rate proteins by their usefulness to an organism based on their relative percentage of amino acids and, in some systems, the digestibility of the protein source. They include biological value, net protein utilization, and PDCAAS (Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acids Score) which was developed by the FDA as a modification of the Protein efficiency ratio (PER) method. The PDCAAS rating was adopted by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations/World Health Organization (FAO/WHO) in 1993 as \"the preferred 'best'\" method to determine protein quality. These organizations have suggested that other methods for evaluating the quality of protein are inferior. In 2013 FAO proposed changing to Digestible Indispensable Amino Acid Score.\n\nMost proteins are decomposed to single amino acids by digestion in the gastro-intestinal tract.\n\nDigestion typically begins in the stomach when pepsinogen is converted to pepsin by the action of hydrochloric acid, and continued by trypsin and chymotrypsin in the small intestine.\nBefore the absorption in the small intestine, most proteins are already reduced to single amino acid or peptides of several amino acids. Most peptides longer than four amino acids are not absorbed. Absorption into the intestinal absorptive cells is not the end. There, most of the peptides are broken into single amino acids.\n\nAbsorption of the amino acids and their derivatives into which dietary protein is degraded is done by the gastrointestinal tract. The absorption rates of individual amino acids are highly dependent on the protein source; for example, the digestibilities of many amino acids in humans, the difference between soy and milk proteins and between individual milk proteins, beta-lactoglobulin and casein. For milk proteins, about 50% of the ingested protein is absorbed between the stomach and the jejunum and 90% is absorbed by the time the digested food reaches the ileum. Biological value (BV) is a measure of the proportion of absorbed protein from a food which becomes incorporated into the proteins of the organism's body.\n\nNewborns of mammals are exceptional in protein digestion and assimilation in that they can absorb intact proteins at the small intestine. This enables passive immunity, i.e., transfer of immunoglobulins from the mother to the newborn, via milk.\n\nConsiderable debate has taken place regarding issues surrounding protein intake requirements. The amount of protein required in a person's diet is determined in large part by overall energy intake, the body's need for nitrogen and essential amino acids, body weight and composition, rate of growth in the individual, physical activity level, the individual's energy and carbohydrate intake, and the presence of illness or injury. Physical activity and exertion as well as enhanced muscular mass increase the need for protein. Requirements are also greater during childhood for growth and development, during pregnancy, or when breastfeeding in order to nourish a baby or when the body needs to recover from malnutrition or trauma or after an operation.\n\nIf not enough energy is taken in through diet, as in the process of starvation, the body will use protein from the muscle mass to meet its energy needs, leading to muscle wasting over time. If the individual does not consume adequate protein in nutrition, then muscle will also waste as more vital cellular processes (e.g., respiration enzymes, blood cells) recycle muscle protein for their own requirements.\n\nAccording to US & Canadian Dietary Reference Intake guidelines, women aged 19–70 need to consume 46 grams of protein per day while men aged 19–70 need to consume 56 grams of protein per day to minimize risk of deficiency. These Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) were calculated based on 0.8 grams protein per kilogram body weight and average body weights of 57 kg (126 pounds) and 70 kg (154 pounds), respectively. However, this recommendation is based on structural requirements but disregards use of protein for energy metabolism. This requirement is for a normal sedentary person. In the United States, average protein consumption is higher than the RDA. According to results of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES 2013-2014), average protein consumption for women ages 20 and older was 69.8 grams and for men 98.3 grams/day.\n\nSeveral studies have concluded that active people and athletes may require elevated protein intake (compared to 0.8 g/kg) due to increase in muscle mass and sweat losses, as well as need for body repair and energy source. Suggested amounts vary between 1.6 g/kg and 1.8 g/kg, while a proposed \"maximum\" daily protein intake would be approximately 25% of energy requirements i.e. approximately 2 to 2.5 g/kg. However, many questions still remain to be resolved.\n\nIn addition, some have suggested that athletes using restricted-calorie diets for weight loss should further increase their protein consumption, possibly to 1.8–2.0 g/kg, in order to avoid loss of lean muscle mass.\n\nEndurance athletes differ from strength-building athletes in that endurance athletes do not build as much muscle mass from training as strength-building athletes do. Research suggests that individuals performing endurance activity require more protein intake than sedentary individuals so that muscles broken down during endurance workouts can be repaired. Although the protein requirement for athletes still remains controversial (for instance see Lamont, Nutrition Research Reviews, pages 142 - 149, 2012), research does show that endurance athletes can benefit from increasing protein intake because the type of exercise endurance athletes participate in still alters the protein metabolism pathway. The overall protein requirement increases because of amino acid oxidation in endurance-trained athletes. Endurance athletes who exercise over a long period (2–5 hours per training session) use protein as a source of 5–10% of their total energy expended. Therefore, a slight increase in protein intake may be beneficial to endurance athletes by replacing the protein lost in energy expenditure and protein lost in repairing muscles. One review concluded that endurance athletes may increase daily protein intake to a maximum of 1.2–1.4 g per kg body weight.\n\nResearch also indicates that individuals performing strength-training activity require more protein than sedentary individuals. Strength-training athletes may increase their daily protein intake to a maximum of 1.4–1.8 g per kg body weight to enhance muscle protein synthesis, or to make up for the loss of amino acid oxidation during exercise. Many athletes maintain a high-protein diet as part of their training. In fact, some athletes who specialize in anaerobic sports (e.g., weightlifting) believe a very high level of protein intake is necessary, and so consume high protein meals and also protein supplements.\n\nA food allergy is an abnormal immune response to proteins in food. The signs and symptoms may range from mild to severe. They may include itchiness, swelling of the tongue, vomiting, diarrhea, hives, trouble breathing, or low blood pressure. These symptoms typically occurs within minutes to one hour after exposure. When the symptoms are severe, it is known as anaphylaxis. The following eight foods are responsible for about 90% of allergic reactions: cow's milk, eggs, wheat, shellfish, fish, peanuts, tree nuts and soy.\n\nWhile there is no conclusive evidence that a high protein diet can cause chronic kidney disease, there is a consensus that people with this disease should decrease consumption of protein. According to one 2009 review, people with chronic kidney disease who reduce protein consumption have a 32% lower risk of death in comparison to affected people who do not make these dietary changes. Moreover, people with this disease while using a low protein diet (0.6 g/kg/d - 0.8 g/kg/d) may develop metabolic compensations that preserve kidney function, although in some people, malnutrition may occur.\n\nIndividuals with phenylketonuria (PKU) must keep their intake of phenylalanine - an essential amino acid - extremely low to prevent a mental disability and other metabolic complications. Phenylalanine is a component of the artificial sweetener aspartame, so people with PKU need to avoid low calorie beverages and foods with this ingredient.\n\nMaple syrup urine disease is associated with genetic anomalies in the metabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). They have high blood levels of BCAAs and must severely restrict their intake of BCAAs in order to prevent mental retardation and death. The amino acids in question are leucine, isoleucine and valine. The condition gets its name from the distinctive sweet odor of affected infants' urine. Children of Amish, Mennonite, and Ashkenazi Jewish descent have a high prevalence of this disease compared to other populations.\n\nThe U.S. and Canadian Dietary Reference Intake review for protein concluded that there was not sufficient evidence to establish a Tolerable upper intake level, i.e., an upper limit for how much protein can be safely consumed.\n\nDietary protein is converted by the digestive process to individual amino acids, which are then absorbed. When amino acids are in excess of needs, the liver takes up the amino acids and deaminates them, a process converting the nitrogen from the amino acids into ammonia, further processed in the liver into urea via the urea cycle. Excretion of urea occurs via the kidneys. Other parts of the amino acid molecules can be converted into glucose and used for fuel. When food protein intake is periodically high or low, the body tries to keep protein levels at an equilibrium by using the \"labile protein reserve\" to compensate for daily variations in protein intake. However, unlike body fat as a reserve for future caloric needs, there is no protein storage for future needs.\n\nExcessive protein intake may increase calcium excretion in urine, occurring to compensate for the pH imbalance from oxidation of sulfur amino acids. This may lead to a higher risk of kidney stone formation from calcium in the renal circulatory system. One meta-analysis reported no adverse effects of higher protein intakes on bone density. Another meta-analysis reported a small decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure with diets higher in protein, with no differences between animal and plant protein.\n\nHigh protein diets have been shown to lead to an additional 1.21 kg of weight loss over a period of 3 months versus a baseline protein diet in a meta-analysis. Benefits of decreased body mass index as well as HDL cholesterol were more strongly observed in studies with only a slight increase in protein intake rather where high protein intake was classified as 45% of total energy intake. Detrimental effects to cardiovascular activity were not observed in short-term diets of 6 months or less. There is little consensus on the potentially detrimental effects to healthy individuals of a long-term high protein diet, leading to caution advisories about using high protein intake as a form of weight loss.\n\nThe \"2015–2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans\" (DGA) recommends that men and teenage boys increase their consumption of fruits, vegetables and other under-consumed foods, and that a means of accomplishing this would be to reduce overall intake of protein foods. The 2015 - 2020 DGA report does not set a recommended limit for the intake of red and processed meat. While the report acknowledges research showing that lower intake of red and processed meat is correlated with reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases in adults, it also notes the value of nutrients provided from these meats. The recommendation is not to limit intake of meats or protein, but rather to monitor and keep within daily limits the sodium (< 2300 mg), saturated fats (less than 10% of total calories per day), and added sugars (less than 10% of total calories per day) that may be increased as a result of consumption of certain meats and proteins. While the 2015 DGA report does advise for a reduced level of consumption of red and processed meats, the 2015-2020 DGA key recommendations recommend that a variety of protein foods be consumed, including both vegetarian and non-vegetarian sources of protein.\n\nProtein deficiency and malnutrition (PEM) can lead to variety of ailments including mental retardation and kwashiorkor. Symptoms of kwashiorkor include apathy, diarrhea, inactivity, failure to grow, flaky skin, fatty liver, and edema of the belly and legs. This edema is explained by the action of lipoxygenase on arachidonic acid to form leukotrienes and the normal functioning of proteins in fluid balance and lipoprotein transport.\n\nPEM is fairly common worldwide in both children and adults and accounts for 6 million deaths annually. In the industrialized world, PEM is predominantly seen in hospitals, is associated with disease, or is often found in the elderly.\n\n"}
{"id": "16325941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16325941", "title": "Renal Support Network", "text": "Renal Support Network\n\nThe Renal Support Network (RSN) is an American nonprofit, kidney patient-focused, kidney patient-run organization that works to benefit individuals affected by chronic kidney disease (CKD). RSN's mission is to help patients develop their personal coping skills, special talents, and employability by educating and empowering them (and their family members) to take control of the course and management of the disease.\n\nRSN works to achieve their mission through their national patient meeting and regional patient lifestyle meetings and the RSN Patients Educating Patients & Professionals (PEPP) Patient Speakers Program. Information and education programs include the Kidney Times website and the KidneyTalk biweekly podcast. RSN sponsors Renal Teen Proms in Los Angeles and Washington DC.\n\nA vital role of RSN is to provide lawmakers and policymakers with the patients’ perspective on the needs and capabilities of people with CKD. RSN does this through their Wellness & Education Kidney Advocacy Network (weKAN).\n\nThe Renal Support Network was founded in 1993 by Lori Hartwell to instill health, happiness, and hope into the lives of those affected by CKD.\n\nThe national meeting is a three-day conference held in conjunction with the National Renal Administrators Association (NRAA) annual meeting. Regional Patient Lifestyle meetings are free to attend.\n\nThe Wellness & Education Kidney Advocacy Network (weKAN) consists of CKD patient activists from across the country whose common goal is to ensure that people with CKD receive quality care.\n\nThe PEPP Patient Speakers Program was initiated by RSN in 2005. Since then, there have been over 100 speaking engagements to more than 9800 listeners. These educational programs are led by CKD patient-speakers who have been professionally trained, tested and certified to deliver these programs at meetings of renal patients and healthcare professionals. PEPP speakers are available at no charge to organizations that meet the RSN criteria.\n\n\"Kidney Times\" is the organization's CKD information website; all articles are all written by people with CKD or health care professionals. A stipend is paid for articles published. \"KidneyTalk\" is a biweekly webcast hosted by Stephen Furst and Lori Hartwell.\n\nRenal Teen Proms are free events are for teens ages 14 to 24 who have chronic kidney disease and a guest of their choice. Attendees are treated to dancing and limo rides, dinner and appetizers, glamor photos and a DJ.\n\n"}
{"id": "42611352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42611352", "title": "Reproductive rights in Latin America", "text": "Reproductive rights in Latin America\n\nWhile feminist movements became prevalent in Europe and North America in the 1960s and 1970s, the women of Latin America were gathering to oppose dictatorships and civil wars. As democracy began to spread across the region, feminist movements gradually began to push for more reproductive rights.\n\nIn the 1990s, many of the groups that made up the women's movement began to evolve in order to adapt to a changing political climate. These groups focused on specific policy issues, such as abortion, and were not composed exclusively of civil society actors. During this same time period, anti-abortion activism was also beginning to gain momentum. The Vatican replaced hundreds of progressive clergy and summarily repressed discussions of reproductive issues. Groups continuing to fight for legal abortion across the region have faced a strong resistance from the Catholic church as well as the religious right in the United States. Although a majority of countries within the region are officially secular, the church continues to have an extensive influence within the region due to Latin America being the largest Catholic region in the world. The religious right in the United States holds substantial clout over the political right in its own country, which has resulted in the United States banning federal funding for international NGOs. Considerably damaging to groups in Latin America was Ronald Reagan's 1984 Global Gag Rule which prohibited international organizations receiving US federal funds from performing or promoting abortion as a method of family planning.\n\nLatin America is home to some of the few countries of the world with a complete ban on abortion, without an exception for saving maternal life.\n\nDuring the Cold War, reproductive restrictions were directed at controlling overpopulation through technocratic regulatory mechanisms and vertical population control campaigns. The United Nations International Conference on Population and Development of 1994 held in Cairo, Egypt established the first global agenda for sexual and reproductive health and rights. The agreement marked a paradigm shift away from a narrow approach based on delivery of services and numbers rather than well-being. It placed rights at the center of population and development and defined reproductive health as \"a state of complete, physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease of infirmity, in all matters relating to the reproductive system and to its functions and processes.\" This broader approach to reproductive health moved the Cairo Agenda into political and economic debates over access and rights to knowledge, resources, and appropriate services.\n\nThus, women and health movements in civil society and their allies in the United Nations and national bureaucracies have undertaken strong campaigns to link public health, gender equality, and development policy. By understanding reproductive rights in the broader context of human rights, governments are able to create a standard of health that ensures development. Similarly, this broader understanding of reproductive health places a certain level of responsibility on the government in ensuring this aspect of health for its citizens.\n\nThis cross-cultural consensus focuses on the importance of one particular capability, that of bodily health. Recognizing the many areas reproductive health has influence over serves to exemplify its importance as well as gives some understanding as to what necessary improvements need to be made to a society.\n\nReproductive health also encompasses knowledge production and knowledge consumption. In order to obtain reproductive rights, quality information and services must be made available to all citizens of a society.\n\nThe 1994 International Conference on Population and Development defined reproductive health as noted above. It also defined strategies and goals for advancing such reproductive health and rights in Latin America through what is called the Cairo Programme of Action (CPA). The CPA has three quantitative targets: (1) Reducing overall mortality, which implies an increase in life expectancy, reducing specific mortalities (2) Universal access to education, especially for girls (3) Universal access to reproductive health services, including family planning. Adopted by the region at the conference, some improvements have been seen since the adoption of the CPA. Reproductive rights have become recognized in the constitutions of Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela. The Environmental Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Ad Hoc Committee on Population and Development is responsible for official follow-up to the implementation of the CPA in Latin America as well as the Caribbean.\n\nThe Millennium Development Goals are a descriptive framework by which to monitor response to eight specific goals. They were announced in the Millennium Declaration in September 2000. Whether or not a country is on track to meeting these goals—in the case of Latin America—is tracked by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). One particular goal in regard to reproductive health, Goal 5, seeks to improve maternal health within the region. The first target of Goal 5 is to reduce the maternal mortality ratio by three quarters between 1990 and 2015. In order to assess the progress towards this goal, ECLAC monitors maternal mortality ratios and the proportion of births attended by skilled health personnel. The second target of Goal 5 is to achieve universal access to reproductive health by 2015. This target is assessed by viewing contraceptive prevalence rates, adolescent birth rates, antenatal care coverage and percentages of unmet need for family planning. In order to achieve these goals, many actions have been taken, including the growing institutionalization of deliveries and the increased number of personnel trained to provide care during childbirth and emergency obstetric care.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2010, about 9,200 women are dying annually from pregnancy-related causes. These deaths have a variety of causes that can occur as a result of complications during and following pregnancy and childbirth. The World Health Organization estimates that around 80% of all maternal deaths are a result of severe bleeding, infections, high blood pressure during pregnancy and unsafe abortions. According to a report by the Guttmacher Institute, more than 20% of women who gave birth in 2008 did not make the recommended four antenatal visits and 13% did not deliver in a health facility.\n\nNone of the Latin American countries will reach the Millennium Development goal target specifically for maternal mortality, as well as it continues to be both a health and social challenge in Latin America. Research indicates that the numbers are disproportionately high within the indigenous and afro-descendant populations among the very poor. For indigenous populations as well as adolescents and young people, the rate of unmet family planning need also remains high. Latin America has the second highest fertility rates among adolescents and the highest unsafe abortion rates in the world.\n\nOverall, the maternal mortality rate in Latin America is relatively low compared to other regions with a rate of 80 deaths per 100,000 live births. However, if one were to break down the region's mortality rate by country, one could easily demonstrate that there exists a large disparity between affluent and poor countries. For example, in Haiti the rate was closer to 350 deaths per 100,000 live births. The disparity between wealthy and poor areas likely exists due to the differences in access to services and skilled professionals. Women in the highest income quintile have far easier access to such health services than women in the lowest income quintile. The same class-based disparity exists when analyzing the use of contraceptive methods.\n\nProtecting the health of adolescents is an important public health priority. Increased investment in adolescent reproductive health contributes to improving the overall status of women as well as the reduction in poverty among families. Adolescent health must be contextualized within reproductive health and thus public health. Latin American government as a whole did not recognize early pregnancy in adolescents to be an issue until 1984 during the International Conference on Population in Mexico City.\n\nIn Latin America, 38% of women become pregnant before the age of 20 and almost 20% of births are to teenage mothers. Each year there are estimated to be 1.2 million unintended pregnancies among adolescent women living in Latin America and the Caribbean. Although overall fertility rates have largely dropped within the region, adolescent maternity is following an opposite trend. The Gender Equality Observatory for Latin America and the Caribbean reports that as of 2011, in Nicaragua approximately 2 in 10 women between the ages of 15 and 19 is a mother. In places such as Chile, Mexico, Paraguay and Peru the percentage is close to 12% while in Belize, Venezuela, Colombia, Guatemala and El Salvador reach percentages close to 15%. Inequality is also present in the issue of adolescent maternity, with pregnancy rates being three to five times higher among poor adolescents. While an overall universal trend towards earlier average age of menstruation can be seen, the mean age of marriage has declined. This implies that adolescents who are coerced into marriage are unprotected in terms of reproductive rights for longer periods of time.\n\nAccording to the UN Population Fund, education and access to information and services young people need in order to make responsible decisions remains insufficient. The importance of education is exemplified by how girls in Latin America who have completed only up to primary education or less have a higher probability of adolescent pregnancy. Further, many young girls are dying because their bodies cannot support pregnancies. The same fund reports that the risk of complications during pregnancy and delivery for girls aged 15 to 19 is double the rate for women in their 20s, and five times as high for girls under 15. \nResearch reveals that there are several major barriers that young people face to accessing contraception, primarily with acquiring services. For example, facilities are frequently in areas inaccessible to young individuals. Due to a lack of information, adolescents often incorrectly use or do not use contraceptives at all. For the purpose of privacy from their communities and families, young persons often seek services from facilities not located directly in their own neighborhoods. \nThere are also legal barriers preventing youth's access. Many policies limit or prohibit confidential services for youths.\n\nThere is also a swath of data that is not collected by hospitals on abortions that are particularly \"clandestine\" / \"backstreet\". Studies have shown that in several Latin American countries, young single women are at a high risk for abortion which is not reflected by the amount of married, older women who were hospitalized for abortions.\n\nAside from a lack of information, young people who seek contraception are often denied by health workers acting out of their own moral convictions. It is clear that religious attitudes are very much present in society, which often deters young persons from seeking reproductive services and contraception.\n\nUse of modern contraceptives has increased to 62.5% (CITE: Population action) giving the region as a whole the highest contraceptive prevalence rate in the developing world. The increased uptake of sexual and reproductive health and family planning services has resulted in a marked drop in total fertility rates from approximately 4.6 children per woman in the 1970s to about 2.5 in 2013. \nIn Latin America, multiple court decisions have granted personhood to fertilized eggs. These court decisions have been responsible for the extreme restrictions on access to emergency contraception within the region. \nThe legal status of oral contraception in Latin America varies by country. In 2009 Honduras banned the free distribution and sale of emergency contraceptives That same year, the Constitutional Court of Peru ordered the Health Ministry to refrain from distributing emergency contraceptives to the public sector. In Costa Rica, where emergency contraceptives are not blatantly prohibited, the popular emergency contraceptive levonorgestrel is not registered as a product, which impedes access to the drug from within the public health system as well as the private market. \nAlthough the remaining countries in the region allow for the free distribution of emergency contraceptives, they do not have uniform regulations. In Chile, Colombia and Ecuador, the right to have access to emergency contraceptives is recognized. In Nicaragua and Bolivia, the protocols of their respective health ministries are essentially law. In Argentina and Brazil, the distribution of emergency contraceptives is not legally recognized except in protocols and informative guides.\n\nAbortion is a highly controversial aspect of reproductive rights. While every country in Latin America has differing laws and regulations regarding abortion, the general sentiment is that of disapproval. Abortions in Latin America have had a history of being unsafe and illegal (especially for poor women), with recent improvements in both of those areas. Most of these improvements can be attributed to modern contraception, emergency care, as well as education. Similarly, advocacy and national conflict has grown surrounding abortion rights in Latin America. The region has seen a steady increase of feminist abortion activists, despite religion making the issue taboo. Even when legislation has become more lenient (as has been the case recently with Mexico City and Chile), women often face institutional barriers to gaining access to abortions. When it comes to reporting data on abortions in Latin America, estimated abortion levels are often heterogeneous and highly variable due to legal frameworks and social stigmas.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, in 2008, approximately \"4.2 million abortions were conducted in Latin America and the Caribbean, almost three-fourths of them in South America. Virtually all these procedures were illegal and many were unsafe.\"\n\nIn 2011, the number of unsafe abortions in Latin America rose to 4.2 million annually. Unsafe abortions account for a large proportion of maternal deaths. For example, in Argentina unsafe abortions account for 31% of the maternal mortality rate.\n\nIn Latin America abortion is:\n\nOnly two countries within Latin America allow for legal abortion without restriction. However, these countries are home to less than 5% of women between the ages of 15-44. According to a report released by the Guttmacher Institute, 95% of abortions in Latin America are unsafe. Nearly one million women are hospitalized each year because of complications from unsafe abortion. Overall, Latin American rates of death related to illegal abortions rank among the highest in the world.\n\nStrict abortion laws are accompanied by strict punishments. In El Salvador, for example, a woman can be jailed for up to 40 years for aborting while in Mexico, she could be jailed for up to 50 years. These punishments do not take into consideration the cause of the pregnancy, due to the fact that many of the imprisoned women were raped or had involuntary abortions\n\nInternational legislations also have an effect on abortion rights in Latin America. When U.S. President Donald Trump reinstated the Global Gag Rule on January 23, 2017, he prohibited all U.S. federal money from funding international organizations such as NGOs that \"perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning\". Due to the fact that abortion regulations are already extremely strict in Latin America, this legislation disproportionately affects Latin American organizations that try to provide abortion services to women either legally, or illegally.\n\nIn 2012 a report presented to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) found that access to information remains a significant roadblock to sexual and reproductive health, particularly in Latin America.(CITE HR BRIEF) The report noted that even when a state has a comprehensive legal framework guaranteeing access to information, in practice the individual's health is endangered by uninformed decisions made by individuals and policymakers based on inadequate information regarding sexual and reproductive health. In 2011, IACHR issued a report on access to information on reproductive health and found that the situation is compounded when women are poor, indigenous, of African descent, live in a rural area, or are a migrant.\n\nIn 2008, the region adopted \"Miniseria Declaration, 'Prevention through Education,'\" in response to a lack of comprehensive sexuality education. While there have been some setbacks and delays regarding implementation, there have also been key improvements. In 2013, the ministries of health and education of Guatemala reaffirmed their commitment to working together in order to ensure the goals of the Ministerial Declaration are the met. In addition, the government of Guatemala is implementing a comprehensive sexuality education program for young people in nine regions of the country. Actions aimed at promoted comprehensive sexual education can be seen in multiple areas of the region, demonstrating that leaders are indeed dedicated to making such improvements. Earlier in 2012, Costa Rica adopted a national sexuality program for the first time in history. The curriculum approaches human sexuality in a comprehensive way; it includes lessons on human rights, gender equality, power, interpersonal communication, respect for diversity and pleasure. Also making a critical first step that year was El Salvador with its General Youth Act, legislation which recognizes and guarantees the right of young persons to receive comprehensive sex education. Implementation will be an ongoing challenge, however, recognition is important step toward meeting the needs of youth.\n\nReligion in Latin America is characterized by the predominance of Roman Catholicism, although there is also increasing Protestant influence (especially in Central America and Brazil) as well as by the presence of other world religions. Catholicism was introduced in Latin America with the Spanish colonization of the Americas and continued through the independence movements of the Spanish-American colonies up to the present day. Critics of the restrictive abortion laws of Latin America argue that this situation is created by the strong influence of the Catholic church in the region. El Salvador and Nicaragua have drawn international attention for strong enforcement of their complete bans on abortion. In 2017, Chile relaxed its total ban, allowing abortion to be performed when the woman's life is in danger, when a fetus is unviable, or in cases of rape.\n\nWhile many of Latin America's reforms in regards to reproductive rights have happened internally, the broader international community plays an important role as well. The Center for Reproductive Rights, for example, has used international litigation as a way to reinforce national legislation surrounding reproductive rights. Legal policy plays an important role in establishing a standard of reproductive rights internationally as well as within Latin America itself. This implies that over time, reproductive rights will be integrated into a broader framework of human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "21785969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21785969", "title": "Richard Luchsinger", "text": "Richard Luchsinger\n\nRichard Luchsinger (1900–1993) was a Swiss Doctor who made early contributions to the field of Speech Language Pathology, specifically in \"phoniatry\" or the study of voice. He was born in Switzerland and specialized in otorhinolaryngology. His most notable contribution to the field of voice was a textbook that he published with Dr. Gottfried E. Arnold. The textbook was originally published in German, however the second edition, published in 1965, was translated into English under the title: \"Voice-Speech-Language\".\n\nAlthough the text was written over 40 years ago, the topics covered in the text are quite similar to those that would be covered in a contemporary voice textbook, which shows how much further along the study of phoniatry was compared to other subdivisions of Speech Language Pathology at the time. For example, topics covered in this text included: speech acoustics, observational methods, treatment of laryngeal electromyography, physiology of respiration and voice production, genetic factors in voice, development of voice throughout the lifespan, professional voice, voice therapy; pathology of the larynx, nodules, asymetries, genetic defects of voice and laryngeal web, sulcus glottides, voice related endocrine problems, the effects of peripheral nerve lesions, the sympathetic nervous system; laryngeal myopathy, central lesions of the nervous system, laryngeal trauma, cordectomy, joint disorders, alaryngeal voice, vasomotor effects on vocal fold function, functional dysphonias, contact ulcers, ventricular voice, and psychogenic voice disorders.\n\nLuchsinger founded one of the first scholarly journals devoted to the study of voice, called the \"Folia Phoniatrica\". He also founded the \"Swiss Society for Phoniatrics, Logopedics, and Audiology\". Luchsinger published more than 120 research articles, ranging in topic from Cri Du Chat Syndrome to laryngeal surgery. He continued to be an active participant in the Speech Language Pathology community until his death in 1993.\n\nD.Cooper. \"Richard Luchsinger (1900–1993): An appreciation\", Journal of Voice, Volume 11, Issue 3, Pages 249–253.\n\nLuchsinger, R., Arnold, G.E. Voice-Speech-Language. Belmont, California: Wadsworth Publishing, 1965.\n"}
{"id": "24044309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24044309", "title": "Sleep induction", "text": "Sleep induction\n\nSleep induction is the deliberate effort to bring on sleep by various techniques or medicinal means, is practiced to lengthen periods of sleep, increase the effectiveness of sleep, and to reduce or prevent insomnia.\n\nDim or dark surroundings with a peaceful, quiet sound level are conducive to sleep. Retiring to a bedroom, drawing the curtains to block out daylight and closing the door are common methods of achieving this. When this is not possible, such as on an airplane, other methods may be used, such as masks and earplugs for sleeping which airlines commonly issue to passengers for this purpose.\n\nTo relax and encourage sleep, a meditation in the form of guided imagery may be used. The stereotypical method is by counting sheep, imagining sheep jumping over a fence, while counting them.\n\nIn most depictions of the activity, the person envisions an endless series of identical white sheep jumping over a fence, while counting the number that do so. The idea, presumably, is to induce boredom while occupying the mind with something simple, repetitive, and rhythmic, all of which are known to help humans sleep. It may also simulate REM sleep, tiring people's eyes.\n\nAccording to a BBC experiment conducted by researchers at Oxford University, counting sheep is actually an inferior means of inducing sleep.\n\nThe daily sleep/wake cycle is linked to the daily body temperature cycle. For this reason, a hot bath which raises the core body temperature has been found to improve the duration and quality of sleep. A 30-minute soak in a bath of  – which raises the core body temperature by one degree – is suitable for this purpose.\n\nSex, and specifically orgasm, may have an effect on the ability to fall asleep for some people. The period after orgasm (known as a refractory period) is often a time of increased relaxation, attributed to the release of the neurohormones oxytocin and prolactin.\n\nYawning is commonly associated with imminent sleep, but it seems to be a measure to maintain arousal when sleepy and so prevents sleep rather than inducing it. Yawning may be a cue that the body is tired and ready for sleep, but deliberate attempts to yawn may have the opposite effect of sleep induction.\n\nHypnotics, sometimes referred to as sleeping pills, may be prescribed by a physician, but their long-term efficacy is poor and they have numerous adverse effects including daytime drowsiness, accidents, memory disorders and withdrawal symptoms. If they are to be taken, the preferred choices are benzodiazepines with short-lasting effects such as temazepam or the newer Z-medicines such as zopiclone. Alternatively, in isolated cases sedatives such as barbiturates may be prescribed.\n\nA number of nonprescription medications have shown to be effective in promoting sleep. The amino acid tryptophan and its related compounds 5-HTP and melatonin, have common use, with the prescription medication ramelteon operating on the same biochemical pathway. The herb valerian can also be effective in gently inducing a relaxed state which is conducive to sleep.\n\nAn urban legend states that certain foods such as turkey and bananas are rich in tryptophan and thus assist sleep, although this has not been confirmed by research.\n\nAn alcoholic drink or nightcap is a long-standing folk method which will induce sleep, as alcohol is a sedative. However, when the alcohol blood level subsides, there is a rebound effect: the person becomes more alert and so tends to wake up too soon. Also, if they continue to sleep, REM sleep is promoted, and this may cause vivid nightmares which can reduce the quality of the sleep.\n\nA cup of warm milk or a milk-based drink is traditionally used for sleep induction. Hot chocolate is also a traditional bedtime drink but this contains high levels of xanthines (caffeine and theobromine), which are stimulants and therefore may be counterproductive. Also, a pinch of turmeric powder with warm milk reduces stress and induces sleep. The flavor of the milk can be improved by adding honey and/or vanilla.\n\n"}
{"id": "1067222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067222", "title": "Spermatid", "text": "Spermatid\n\nThe spermatid is the haploid male gametid that results from division of secondary spermatocytes. As a result of meiosis, each spermatid contains only half of the genetic material present in the original primary spermatocyte. \n\nSpermatids are connected by cytoplasmic material and have superfluous cytoplasmic material around their nuclei.\n\nWhen formed, \"early round spermatids\" must undergo further maturational events to develop into spermatozoa, a process termed spermiogenesis (also termed \"spermeteliosis\"). \n\nThe spermatids begin to grow a living thread, develop a thickened mid-piece where the mitochondria become localised, and form an acrosome. Spermatid DNA also undergoes packaging, becoming highly condensed. The DNA is packaged firstly with specific nuclear basic proteins, which are subsequently replaced with protamines during spermatid elongation. The resultant tightly packed chromatin is transcriptionally inactive.\n\nIn 2016 scientists at Nanjing Medical University claimed they had produced cells resembling mouse spermatids artificially from stem cells. They injected these spermatids into mouse eggs and produced pups.\n\nAs postmeiotic germ cells develop to mature sperm they progressively lose the ability to repair DNA damage that may then accumulate and be transmitted to the zygote and ultimately the embryo. In particular, the repair of DNA double-strand breaks by the non-homologous end joining pathway, although present in round spermatids, appears to be lost as they develop into elongated spermatids.\n\n"}
{"id": "50252897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50252897", "title": "Ted Joyce", "text": "Ted Joyce\n\nTheodore Jay \"Ted\" Joyce is a professor of economics and finance at Baruch College and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. \nJoyce received his B.A. from the University of Massachusetts in education in 1976 and his Ph.D. in economics from the CUNY Graduate Center in 1985.\nJoyce conducts research in the fields of health economics and health policy. For example, he has published multiple studies on the effects of abortion laws. These include a 2011 perspective piece comparing the effectiveness of supply-side and demand-side laws in reducing rates of abortions performed after 16 weeks which found that the former were much more effective than the latter. He has also published research showing that parental involvement laws were not associated with significant changes in the overall abortion rate, but that they had small effects on some subgroups of minors. In a 2006 study, he and his colleagues found that Texas' parental notification law was associated with a significant decline in the abortion rate among Texas teenagers.\n\nIn 2005, Joyce became the first recipient of the Sidney Lirtzman Award for Excellence in Research, Teaching & Service.\n"}
{"id": "52458196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52458196", "title": "Vestibulectomy", "text": "Vestibulectomy\n\nA vestibulectomy is a gynecological surgical procedure that can be used to treat vulvar pain and specifically in case of vulvadina and vestibulodynia. Vulvadina is a chronic pain syndrome. It refers to the severe pain caused in the vulvar area and the causes are usually difficult to diagnose. The symptoms also include burning sensations and feelings of irritation. Buttocks and Inner thighs are also affected by Vulvadina. Vestibulodynia is similar to Vulvadina, except that the chronic pain and irritation is present in the vestibule, which is near the entrance of the vagina, while in case of Vulvadina, the pain is localised near the vulva. Vestibulectomy may be partial or complete.\n\nVulvar vestibulectomy is also used to help people who suffer from provoked vestibulodynia, which causes sexual pain to people with vaginas. \n\nIt is considered as an effective treatment for the long-run and has recorded high levels of satisfaction from the patients. In spite of the high successful rates, vestibulectomy is often only regarded as a last resort due to baseless cautions present in the society.\n\nThe surgery takes place below the urinary meatus, down to the border of the perineal area and includes the fourchette. Incisions are made on each side adjacent and parallel to the labia minora. The structures removed are the hymen, mucous membrane, Bartholin glands ducts and minor vestibular glands. In some surgeries, the amount of tissue removed is not so extensive. Vaginal mucosa tissue remains attached and then is pulled downward to cover the area where tissue was removed. This surgery is also used to treat lichen sclerosus. \"The complete surgery removes the entire lateral hymenal tissues to the lateral vestibular walls at Hart’s line, and involves removal of the entire posterior fourchette from the posterior hymenal remnants down to the perineum\" which barring complications, enables the entire procedure to be over within an hour. \n\nThe procedure involves minimal bleeding and is usually done using local anesthesia. The amount of tissue removed during the surgery can vary with respect to the pain.\n\nComplications related to vestibulectomy include bleeding, infection. Long-term complications can be weakness of the anal muscles, cosmetic changes, development of a Bartholin's cyst, a decline in vaginal lubrication. Reports of satisfaction with the outcome of the surgical procedure can be as high as 90%.\n\nThe procedure has has been known to be unsuccessful in rare cases, where the pain remained constant even after surgery. In such cases, alternative treatments like oral medicines or more surgeries may be considered, depending on the severity of the persisting pain. \n\nThe recovery period is about 6-12 weeks, depending on the amount of vulvar tissues removed. Post-surgery, the patient might need further physical and possible mental therapy to avoid scarring and lead a regular sexual life. \n\nIn a study done in 2006, it was discovered that 93% of patients who had undergone the surgery recommended it for vulvar pain. Only 11% of women continued to have issues in their sex lives post-surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2167323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167323", "title": "William Dameshek", "text": "William Dameshek\n\nWilliam Dameshek (1900, Voronezh – 1969) was an American hematologist. Trained at Harvard, he was the founder of \"Blood\", the prime core clinical journal of hematology, in 1946. He is also credited with describing the concept of myeloproliferative diseases in 1951. In addition, he participated in the first studies of nitrogen mustard in various hematological malignancies, widely considered the first uses of chemotherapy in malignant diseases. Dr Dameshek was also the first one who described chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a common form of leukemia in adults.\n\nDr. Dameshek served as president of the American Society of Hematology (ASH) in 1964. He made numerous contributions to ASH as well as the field of hematology and was the first editor of its journal \"Blood\". Given Dr. Dameshek's accomplishments, ASH has named the Dameshek Prize in his honor. Each year the Dameshek Prize is awarded to individual who has made an outstanding contribution in hematology.\n\n\nThe American Society of Hematology (http://www.hematology.org/)\n"}
