{"id": "4360187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4360187", "title": "Abbygale Arenas", "text": "Abbygale Arenas\n\nAbbygale Williamson Arenas (born November 17, 1974, in Angeles City) is a former model from the Philippines. She is 5'9\" and is said to resemble Linda Evangelista. She is now a freelance make-up artist. She is married to photographer Jun de Leon.\n\nIn 1992, she represented Pampanga in the \"Ford Supermodel of the World - Philippines\". After that she went on to represent the Philippines in the international finals. In 1994, she enlisted to compete in Binibining Pilipinas, where she came became First Runner-up. In 1997 she won the Binibining Pilipinas Universe title, which entitled her to go on to the Miss Universe pageant. She also brought home the Best in Swimsuit and Best in Long Gown awards. She placed 11th in Miss Universe, missing the Top 10 by 0.01 of a point, but came home with a Miss Photogenic title.\n"}
{"id": "18947965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18947965", "title": "Afrikaners", "text": "Afrikaners\n\nAfrikaners (, ) are a Southern African ethnic group descended from predominantly Dutch settlers first arriving in the 17th and 18th centuries. They traditionally dominated South Africa's agriculture and politics prior to 1994.\nAfrikaans, South Africa's fifth-most widely spoken home language, is the mother tongue of Afrikaners and most Cape Coloureds. It evolved from the Dutch vernacular of South Holland, incorporating words brought from the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) and Madagascar by slaves. Afrikaners make up approximately 5.2% of the total South African population based on the number of white South Africans who speak Afrikaans as a first language in the South African National Census of 2011.\n\nThe arrival of Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama at Calicut in 1498 opened a gateway of free access to Asia from Western Europe around the Cape of Good Hope; however, it also necessitated the founding and safeguarding of trade stations in the East. Very rapidly one European power followed another, all eager to trade along this route. The Portuguese landed in Mossel Bay in 1500, explored Table Bay two years later, and by 1510 had started raiding inland. Shortly afterwards the Dutch Republic sent merchant vessels to India, and in 1602 founded the Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie (\"Dutch East India Company\"; VOC). As the volume of traffic rounding the Cape increased, the Company recognised its natural harbour as an ideal watering point for the long voyage around Africa to the Orient and established a victualling station there in 1652. VOC officials did not favour the permanent settlement of Europeans in their trading empire, although during the 140 years of Dutch rule many VOC servants retired or were discharged and remained as private citizens. Furthermore, the exigencies of supplying local garrisons and passing fleets compelled the administration to confer free status upon employees and oblige them to become independent farmers.\n\nEncouraged by the success of this experiment, the Company extended free passage from 1685 to 1707 for Hollanders wishing to settle at the Cape. In 1688 it sponsored the immigration of 200 French Huguenot refugees forced into exile by the Edict of Fontainebleau. The terms under which the Huguenots agreed to immigrate were the same offered to other VOC subjects, including free passage and requisite farm equipment on credit. Prior attempts at cultivating vineyards or exploiting olive groves for fruit had been unsuccessful, and it was hoped that Huguenot colonists accustomed to Mediterranean agriculture could succeed where the Dutch had failed. They were augmented by VOC soldiers returning from Asia, predominantly Germans channeled into Amsterdam by the Company's extensive recruitment network and thence overseas. Despite their diverse nationalities, the colonists used a common language and adopted similar attitudes towards politics. The attributes they shared came to serve as a basis for the evolution of Afrikaner identity and consciousness.\n\nAfrikaner nationalism has taken the form of political parties and secret societies such as the Broederbond in the twentieth century. In 1914 the National Party was formed to promote Afrikaner economic interests and sever South Africa's ties to the United Kingdom. Rising to prominence by winning the 1948 general elections, it has also been noted for enforcing a harsh policy of racial segregation (\"apartheid\") while simultaneously declaring South Africa a republic and withdrawing from the British Commonwealth.\n\nThe term \"Afrikaner\" presently denotes the politically, culturally and socially dominant group among white South Africans, or the Afrikaans-speaking population of Dutch origin—although their original progenitors also included smaller numbers of Flemish, French Huguenot, and German immigrants. Historically, the terms \"burgher\" and \"Boer\" have both been used to describe white Afrikaans speakers as a group; neither is particularly objectionable but Afrikaner has been considered a more appropriate term. The term was in common usage in both the Boer republics and the Cape Colony by the late nineteenth century. At one time, \"burghers\" merely denoted \"Cape Dutch\", settlers who were influential in the administration, able to participate in urban affairs, and did so regularly. \"Boers\" often referred to the settled European farmers or nomadic cattle herders. During the Batavian Republic, \"burgher\" was popularised among Dutch communities both at home and abroad as a popular revolutionary form of address, or \"citizen\". In South Africa, it remained in use as late as the Second Boer War.\n\nThe first recorded instance of a colonist identifying as an \"Afrikaner\" occurred in March 1707, during a disturbance in Stellenbosch. When the magistrate, Johannes Starrenburg, ordered an unruly crowd to desist, a white teenager named Hendrik Biebouw retorted, \"Ik ben een Afrikaander - al slaat de landdrost mij dood, of al zetten hij mij in de tronk, ik zal, nog wil niet zwijgen!\" (\"I am an African - even if the magistrate were to beat me to death, or put me in jail, I shall not be, nor will I stay, silent!\"). Biebouw was flogged for his insolence and later banished to Jakarta. It is believed that \"Afrikaner\" in question initially indicated Cape Coloureds or other groups claiming mixed ancestry. Biebouw himself had numerous half-caste siblings and may have identified with Coloureds socially. However, this defiant secession from Dutch law and sovereignty was a leap towards defining another consciousness for white South Africa, suggesting for the first time a group identification with the Cape Colony rather than any ancestral homeland in Europe.\n\nThe Dutch East India Company (VOC) initially had no intention of planting a permanent European settlement at the Cape of Good Hope; until 1657 it devoted as little attention as possible to the development or administration of the Dutch Cape Colony. From the VOC's perspective, there was little financial incentive to regard the region as anything more than the site of a strategic victualing centre. Furthermore, the Cape was unpopular among VOC employees, who regarded it as a barren and insignificant outpost with little opportunity for advancement.\n\nA small number of longtime VOC employees who had been instrumental in the colony's founding and its first five years of existence, however, expressed interest in applying for grants of land, with the objective of retiring at the Cape as farmers. In time they came to form a class of \"vrijlieden\", also known as \"vrijburgers\" (free citizens), former VOC employees who stayed in Dutch territories overseas after serving their contracts. The \"vrijburgers\" were to be of Dutch birth (although exceptions were made for some Germans), married, 'of good character', and had to undertake to spend at least twenty years in Southern Africa. In March 1657, when the first \"vrijburgers\" started receiving their farms, the white population of the Cape was only about 134. Although the soil and climate in Cape Town were suitable for farming, willing immigrants remained in short supply and included a number of orphans, refugees, and foreigners accordingly. From 1688 onward the Cape attracted some French Huguenots, most of them refugees from the protracted conflict between Protestants and Catholics in France.\n\nSouth Africa's white population in 1691 has been described as the Afrikaner \"parent stock\", as no significant effort was made to secure more colonist families after the dawn of the 18th century, and a majority of Afrikaners are descended from progenitors who arrived prior to 1700 in general and the late 1600s in particular. Although some two-thirds of this figure were Dutch-speaking Hollanders, there were at least 150 Huguenots and a nearly equal number of Low German speakers. Also represented in smaller numbers were Swedes, Danes, and Belgians.\n\nIn 1754, Cape governor Ryk Tulbagh conducted a census of his non-indigenous subjects. White \"vrijburgers\", now outnumbered by slaves imported from West Africa, Mozambique, Madagascar and the Dutch East Indies, only totaled about 6,000.\n\nFollowing the defeat and collapse of the Dutch Republic during Joseph Souham's Flanders Campaign, William V, Prince of Orange escaped to the United Kingdom and appealed to the British to occupy his colonial possessions until he was restored. Holland's administration was never effectively reestablished; upon a new outbreak of hostilities with France expeditionary forces led by Sir David Baird, 1st Baronet finally imposed British rule for good when they defeated Cape governor Jan Willem Janssens in 1806.\n\nAt the onset of Cape Town's annexation to the British Empire, the original Afrikaners numbered 26,720 - or 36% of the colony's population.\n\nThe South African census of 1960 was the final census undertaken in the Union of South Africa. Ethno-linguistic status of some 15,994,181 South African citizens was projected by various sources through sampling language, religion and race. At least 1.6 million South Africans represented white Afrikaans speakers, or 10% of the total population. They also constituted 9.3% of the population in neighbouring South West Africa.\n\nAccording to the South African census of 1985, there were 2,581,080 white Afrikaans speakers then residing in the country, or about 9.4% of the total population.\n\nThe South African National Census of 2001 was the first census conducted in post-apartheid South Africa. It was calculated on 9 October and reported a population of 2,576,184 white Afrikaans speakers. The census noted that Afrikaners represented the eighth largest ethnic group in the country, or 5.7% of the total population.\n\nAfrikaners make up approximately 58% of South Africa's white population, based on language used in the home. English speakers - an ethnically diverse group - account for closer to 37%. As in Canada or the United States, most modern European immigrants elect to learn English and are likelier to identify with those descended from British colonials of the nineteenth century. Aside from coastal pockets in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal they remain heavily outnumbered by those of Afrikaans origin.\n\n, Afrikaners make up approximately 5.2% of the total South African population based on the number of white South Africans who speak Afrikaans as a first language in the South African National Census of 2011.\n\nThe earliest Afrikaner communities in South Africa were formed at the Cape of Good Hope, mainly through the introduction of Dutch colonists, French Huguenot refugees and erstwhile servants of the Dutch East India Company. During the early colonial period, Afrikaners were generally known as \"Christians\", \"colonists\", \"emigrants\", or \"ingezeetenen\" (\"inhabitants\"). Their concept of being rooted in Africa—as opposed to the Company's expatriate officialdom—did not find widespread expression until the late eighteenth century.\n\nIt is to the ambitions of Prince Henry the Navigator that historians attribute the discovery of the Cape as a settling ground for Europeans. In 1424 Henry and Fernando de Castro besieged the Canary Islands, under the impression that they might be of use to further Portuguese expeditions around Africa's coast. Although this attempt was unsuccessful, Portugal's continued interest in the continent made possible the later voyages of Bartholomew Diaz in 1487 and Vasco de Gama ten years later. Diaz made known to the world a \"Cape of Storms\", rechristened \"Good Hope\" by John II. As it was desirable to take formal possession of this territory the Portuguese erected a stone cross in Algoa Bay. Da Gama and his successors, however, did not take kindly to the notion, especially following a skirmish with the Khoikhoi in 1497, when one of his admirals was wounded.\n\nAfter the British East India Company was founded in 1599, London merchants began to take advantage of the route to India by the Cape. James Lancaster, who had visited Robben Island some years earlier, anchored in Table Bay in 1601. By 1614 the British had planted a penal colony on the site, and in 1621 two Englishmen claimed Table Bay on behalf of King James I, but this action was not ratified. They eventually settled on Saint Helena as an alternative port of refuge.\n\nDue to the value of the spice trade between Europe and their outposts in the East Indies, Dutch ships began to call sporadically at the Cape in search of provisions after 1598. In 1601 a Captain Paul van Corniden came ashore at St. Sebastion's Bay near Overberg. He discovered a small inlet which he named \"Vleesch Bay\", after the cattle trade, and another \"Visch Bay\" after the abundance of fish. Not long afterwards, Admiral Joris van Spilbergen reported catching penguins and sheep on Robben Island.\n\nIn 1648, Dutch sailors Leendert Jansz and Nicholas Proot had been shipwrecked in Table Bay and marooned for five months until picked up by a returning ship. During this period they established friendly relations with the locals, who sold them sheep, cattle, and vegetables. Both men presented a report advocating the Table valley as a fort and garden for the East India fleets.\n\nUnder recommendation from Jan van Riebeeck, the Heeren XVII authorised the establishment of a fort at the Cape, and this the more hurriedly to preempt any further imperial maneuvers by Britain, France or Portugal. Van Riebeeck, his family and seventy to eighty VOC personnel arrived there on 6 April 1652 after a journey of three and a half months. Their immediate task was the establishment of some gardens, \"taking for this purpose all the best and richest ground\"; following this they were instructed to conduct a survey to determine the best pastureland for the grazing of cattle. By 15 May they had nearly completed construction on the Castle of Good Hope, which was to be an easily defensible victualing station serving Dutch ships plying the Indian Ocean. Dutch sailors appreciated the mild climate at the Cape, which allowed them to recuperate from their protracted periods of service in the tropical humidity of Southeast Asia. VOC fleets bearing cargo from the Orient anchored in the Cape for a month, usually from March or April, when they were resupplied with water and provisions prior to completing their return voyage to the Netherlands.\n\nIn extent the new refreshment post was to be kept as confined as possible to reduce administrative expense. Residents would associate amiably with the natives for the sake of livestock trade, but otherwise keep to themselves and their task of becoming self-sufficient. As the VOC's primary goal was merchant enterprise, particularly its shipping network traversing the Atlantic and Indian Oceans between the Netherlands and various ports in Asia, most of its territories consisted of coastal forts, factories, and isolated trading posts dependent entirely on indigenous host states. The exercise of Dutch sovereignty, as well the large scale settlement of Dutch colonists, was therefore extremely limited at these sites. During the VOC's history only two primary exceptions to the rule emerged: the Dutch East Indies and the Cape of Good Hope, through the formation of a large class of \"vrijlieden\", or \"vrijburgers\" (free citizens).\n\nThe VOC operated under a strict corporate hierarchy which allowed it to formally assign classifications to those whom it determined fell within its legal purview. Most Europeans within the VOC's registration and identification system were denoted either as Company employees or vrijburgers. The legal classifications imposed upon every individual in the Company possessions determined their position in society and conferred restraints upon their actions. VOC ordinances made a clear distinction between the \"bonded\" period of service, and the period of \"freedom\" that began once an employment contract ended. In order to ensure former employees could be distinguished from workers still in the service of the Company, it was decided to provide them a \"letter of freedom\", a licence known as a \"vrijbrief\". European employees were repatriated to the Netherlands upon the termination of their contract, unless they successfully applied for a vrijbrief, in which they were charged a small fee and registered as vrijburgers in a Company record known collectively as the \"vrijboeken\". Fairly strict conditions were levied on those who aspired to become vrijburgers at the Cape of Good Hope. They had to be married Dutch citizens who were regarded as being \"of good character\" by the VOC and committed to at least twenty years' residence in South Africa. Reflecting the multi-national nature of the workforce of the early modern trading companies, some foreigners, particularly Germans, were open to consideration as well. If their application for vrijburger status was successful, the Company granted them plots of farmland of thirteen and a half morgen, which were tax exempt for twelve years. They were also loaned tools and seeds. The extent of their farming activities, however, remained heavily regulated: for example, the vrijburgers were ordered to focus on the cultivation of grain. Each year their harvest was to be sold exclusively to the VOC at fixed prices. They were forbidden from growing tobacco, producing vegetables for any purpose other than personal consumption, or purchasing cattle from the native Khoikhoi at rates which differed from those set by the VOC. With time, these restrictions and other attempts by the VOC to control the settlers resulted in successive generations of vrijburgers and their descendants becoming increasingly localised in their loyalties and national identity and hostile towards the colonial government.\n\nAround March 1657, Rijcklof van Goens, a senior VOC officer appointed as commissioner to the fledgling Dutch Cape Colony, ordered Jan van Riebeeck to help more employees succeed as vriburgers so the Company could save on their wages. Although an overwhelming majority of the vrijburgers were farmers, some also stated their intention to seek employment as farm managers, fishermen, wagon-makers, tailors, or hunters. A ship's carpenter was granted a tract of forest, from which he was permitted to sell timber, and one miller from Holland opened his own water-operated corn mill, the first of its kind in Southern Africa. The colony initially did not do well, and many of the discouraged vrijburgers returned to VOC service or sought passage back to the Netherlands to pursue other opportunities. Vegetable gardens were frequently destroyed by storms, and cattle lost in raids by the Khoikhoi, who were known to the Dutch as \"Hottentots\". There was also an unskilled labour shortage, which the VOC later resolved by importing slaves from Angola, Madagascar, and the East Indies.\n\nIn 1662 van Riebeeck was succeeded by Zacharias Wagenaer as governor of the Cape. Wagenaer was somewhat aloof towards the vrijburgers, whom he dismissed as \"sodden, lazy, clumsy louts...since they do not pay proper attention to the [slaves] lent to them, or to their work in the fields, nor to their animals, for that reason seem wedded to the low level and cannot rid themselves of their debts\". When Wagenaer arrived, he observed that many of the unmarried vrijburgers were beginning to cohabit with their slaves, with the result that 75% of children born to Cape slaves at the time had a Dutch father. Wagenaer's response was to sponsor the immigration of Dutch women to the colony as potential wives for the settlers. Upon the outbreak of the Second Anglo-Dutch War, Wagenaer was perturbed by the British capture of New Amsterdam and attacks on other Dutch outposts in the Americas and on the west African coast. He increased the Cape garrison by about 300 troops and replaced the original earthen fortifications of the Castle of Good Hope with new ones of stone.\n\nIn 1672 there were 300 VOC officials, employees, soldiers and sailors at the Cape, compared to only about 64 vrijburgers, 39 of whom were married, with 65 children. By 1687 the number had increased to about 254 vrijburgers, of whom 77 were married, with 231 children. Simon van der Stel, who was appointed governor of the Cape in 1679, reversed the VOC's earlier policy of keeping the colony limited to the confines of the Cape peninsula itself and encouraged Dutch settlement further abroad, resulting in the founding of Stellenbosch. Van der Stel persuaded 30 vrijburgers to settle in Stellenbosch and a few years afterwards the town received its own municipal administration and school. The VOC was persuaded to seek more prospective European immigrants for the Cape after local officials noted that the cost of maintaining gardens to provision passing ships could be eliminated by outsourcing to a greater number of vrijburgers. Furthermore, the size of the Cape garrison could be reduced if there were many colonists capable of being called up for militia service as needed.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Edict of Fontainebleau, the Netherlands served as a major destination for French Huguenot refugees fleeing persecution at home. In April 1688, the VOC agreed to sponsor the resettlement of over 100 Huguenots at the Cape. Smaller numbers of Huguenots gradually arrived over the next decade, and by 1702 the community numbered close to 200. Between 1689 and 1707 they were augmented by additional numbers of Dutch settlers sponsored by the VOC with grants of land and free passage to Africa. Additionally, there were calls from the VOC administration to sponsor the immigration of more German settlers to the Cape, as long as they were Protestant. VOC pamphlets began circulating in German cities exhorting the urban poor to seek their fortune in southern Africa. Despite the increasing diversity of the colonial population, there was a degree of cultural assimilation due to intermarriage, and the almost universal adoption of the Dutch language. The use of other European languages was discouraged by a VOC edict declaring that Dutch should be the exclusive language of education, administrative record, and education. In 1752 the French astronomer Nicolas-Louis de Lacaille visited the Cape and observed that the nearly all the third generation descendants of the original Huguenot and German settlers spoke Dutch as a first language.\n\nLong before the British annexed the Cape Colony, there were already large Dutch-speaking European settlements in the Cape Peninsula and beyond; by the time British rule became permanent in 1806 these had a population of over 26,000. There were, however, two distinct subgroups in the vrijburger population settled under the VOC. The first were itinerant farmers who began to progressively settle further and further inland, seeking better pastures for their livestock and freedom from the VOC's petty regulations. This community of settlers collectively identified themselves as Boers to describe their agricultural way of life. Their farms were enormous by European standards, as the land was free and relatively underpopulated; they merely had to register them with the VOC, a process that was little more than a formality and became more irrelevant the further the Boers moved inland. A few Boers adopted a semi-nomadic lifestyle permanently and became known as trekboers. The Boers were deeply suspicious of the centralised government and increasing complexities of administration at the Cape; they constantly migrated further from the reaches of the colonial officialdom whenever it attempted to regulate their activities. By the mid eighteenth century the Boers had penetrated almost a thousand kilometres into South Africa's interior beyond the Cape of Good Hope, at which point they encountered the Xhosa people, who were migrating southwards from the opposite direction. Competition between the two communities over resources on the frontier sparked the Xhosa Wars. Harsh Boer attitudes towards black Africans were permanently shaped by their contact with the Xhosa, which bred insecurity and fear on the frontier.\n\nThe second subgroup of the vrijburger population became known as the Cape Dutch and remained concentrated in the southwestern Cape and especially the areas closer to Cape Town. They were likelier to be urban dwellers, more educated, and typically maintained greater cultural ties to the Netherlands than the Boers. The Cape Dutch formed the backbone of the colony's market economy and included the small entrepreneurial class. These colonists had vested economic interests in the Cape peninsula and were not inclined to venture inland because of the great difficulties in maintaining contact with a viable market. This was in sharp contrast with the Boers on the frontier, who lived on the margins of the market economy. For this reason the Cape Dutch could not easily participate in migrations to escape the colonial system, and the Boer strategy of social and economic withdrawal was not viable for them. Their response to grievances with the Cape government was to demand political reform and greater representation, a practice that became commonplace under Dutch and subsequently British rule. In 1779, for example, hundreds of Cape burghers smuggled a petition to Amsterdam demanding an end to VOC corruption and contradictory laws. Unlike the Boers, the contact most Cape Dutch had with black Africans were predominantly peaceful, and their racial attitudes were more paternal than outright hostile.\n\nMeanwhile, the VOC underwent a period of commercial decline beginning in the late eighteenth century which ultimately resulted in its bankruptcy. The company had suffered immense losses to its trade profits as a result of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War and was heavily in debt with European creditors. In 1794 the Dutch government intervened and assumed formal administration of the Cape Colony. However, events at the Cape were overtaken by turmoil in the Netherlands, which was occupied by Napoleon during the Flanders Campaign. This opened the Cape to French naval fleets. To protect her own prosperous maritime shipping routes, Great Britain occupied the fledgling colony by force until 1803. From 1806 to 1814 the Cape was again governed as a British military dependency, whose sole importance to the Royal Navy was its strategic relation to Indian maritime traffic. The British formally assumed permanent administrative control around 1815, as a result of the Treaty of Paris.\n\nRelations between some of the colonists and the new British administration quickly soured. The British brought liberal attitudes towards slavery and treatment of the indigenous peoples to the Cape, which were utterly alien to the colonists. Furthermore, they insisted that the Cape Colony finance its own affairs by taxes levied on the white population, an unpopular measure which bred resentment. By 1812 new attorneys-general and judges had been imported from England and many of the preexisting VOC era institutions abolished, namely the Dutch magistrate system and the only vestige of representative government at the Cape, the burgher senate. The new judiciary then established circuit courts, which brought colonial authority directly to the frontier. These circuit courts were permitted to try colonists for any alleged abuses of their slaves or indentured servants. Most of those tried for these offences were frontier Boers; the charges were usually brought by British missionaries and the courts themselves staffed by unsympathetic and liberal Cape Dutch. The Boers, who perceived most of the charges levelled against them to be flimsy or exaggerated, often refused to answer their court summons. \n\nIn 1815, a Cape police unit was dispatched to arrest a Boer for failure to appear in court on charges of cruelty towards his Khoisan servants; the colonist fired on the troopers when they entered his property and was killed. The controversy which surrounded the incident led to the abortive Slachter's Nek Rebellion, in which a number of Boers took up arms against the British. British officials retaliated by hanging five Boers for insurrection. In 1828 the Cape governor declared that all native inhabitants but slaves were to have the rights of citizens, in respect of security and property ownership, on parity with whites. This had the effect of further alienating the Boers. Boer resentment of successive British administrators continued to grow throughout the late 1820s and early 1830s, especially with the official imposition of the English language. This replaced Dutch with English as the language used in the Cape's judicial system, putting the Boers at a disadvantage, as most spoke little or no English at all. \n\nBridling at what they considered an unwarranted intrusion into their way of life, some in the Boer community began to consider selling their farms and venturing deep into South Africa's unmapped interior to preempt further disputes and live completely independent from British rule. From their perspective, the Slachter's Nek Rebellion had demonstrated the futility of an armed uprising against the new order the British had entrenched at the Cape; one result was that the Boers who might have otherwise been inclined to take up arms began preparing for a mass emigration from the colony instead.\n\nIn the 1830s and 1840s, an organised migration of an estimated 14,000 Boers, known as \"voortrekkers\", across the Cape Colony's frontier began. The voortrekkers departed the colony in a series of parties, taking with them all their livestock and potable property, as well as their dependents and slaves. They had the skills to maintain their own wagons and firearms, but remained dependent on equally mobile traders for vital commodities such as gunpowder and sugar. Nevertheless, one of their goals was to sever their ties with the Cape's commercial network by gaining access to foreign traders and ports in east Africa, well beyond the British sphere of influence.\n\nMany of the Boers who participated in the Great Trek had varying motives. While most were driven by some form of disenchantment with British policies, their secondary objectives ranged from seeking more desirable grazing land for their cattle to a desire to retain their slaves after the abolition of slavery at the Cape. The Great Trek also split the Afrikaner community along social and geographical lines, driving a wedge between the voortrekkers and those who remained in the Cape Colony. Only about a fifth of the colony's Dutch-speaking white population at the time participated in the Great Trek. The Dutch Reformed Church, to which most of the Boers belonged, condemned the migration. Despite their hostility towards the British, there were also Boers who chose to remain in the Cape of their own accord. For its part, the distinct Cape Dutch community remained loyal to the British Crown and focused its efforts on building political organisations seeking representative government; its lobbying efforts were partly responsible for the establishment of the Cape Qualified Franchise in 1853. \n\nAs important as the Trek was to the formation of Boer ethnic identity, so were the running conflicts with various indigenous groups along the way. One conflict central to the construction of Boer identity occurred with the Zulu in the area of present-day KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nThe Boers who entered Natal discovered that the land they wanted came under the authority of the Zulu King \"Dingane ka Senzangakhona\", who ruled that part of what subsequently became KwaZulu-Natal. The British had a small port colony (the future Durban) there but were unable to seize the whole of area from the war-ready Zulus, and only kept to the Port of Natal. The Boers found the land safe from the British and sent an un-armed Boer land treaty delegation under Piet Retief on 6 February 1838, to negotiate with the Zulu King. The negotiations went well and a contract between Retief and Dingane was signed.\n\nAfter the signing, however, Dingane's forces surprised and killed the members of the delegation; a large-scale massacre of the Boers followed. Zulu \"impis\" (regiments) attacked Boer encampments in the Drakensberg foothills at what was later called Blaauwkrans and Weenen, killing women and children along with men. (By contrast, in earlier conflicts the trekkers had experienced along the eastern Cape frontier, the Xhosa had refrained from harming women and children.)\n\nA commando of 470 men arrived to help the settlers. On 16 December 1838, the Voortrekkers under the command of Andries Pretorius confronted about 10,000 Zulus at the prepared positions. The Boers suffered three injuries without any fatalities. Due to the blood of 3,000 slain Zulus that stained the Ncome River, the conflict afterwards became known as the Battle of Blood River.\n\nIn present-day South Africa, 16 December remains a celebrated public holiday, initially called \"Dingane's Day\". After 1952, the holiday was officially named Day of the Covenant, changed to Day of the Vow in 1980 (Mackenzie 1999:69) and to Day of Reconciliation in 1994. The Boers saw their victory at the Battle of Blood River as evidence that they had found divine favour for their exodus from British rule.\n\nAfter defeating the Zulu and the recovery of the treaty between Dingane and Retief, the Voortrekkers proclaimed the Natalia Republic. In 1843, Britain annexed Natal and many Boers trekked inwards again.\n\nDue to the return of British rule, Boers fled to the frontiers to the north-west of the Drakensberg mountains, and onto the highveld of the \"Transvaal\" and \"Transoranje\". These areas were mostly unoccupied due to conflicts in the course of the genocide Mfecane wars of the Zulus on the local Basuthu population who used it as summer grazing for their cattle. Some Boers ventured far beyond the present-day borders of South Africa, north as far as present-day Zambia and Angola. Others reached the Portuguese colony of Delagoa Bay, later called \"Lourenço Marques\" and subsequently \"Maputo\" – the capital of Mozambique.\n\nThe Boers created sovereign states in what is now South Africa: \"de Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek\" (the South African Republic) and the Orange Free State were the most prominent and lasted the longest.\n\nThe discovery of goldfields awakened British interest in the Boer republics, and the two Boer Wars resulted: The First Boer War (1880–1881) and the Second Boer War (1899–1902). The Boers won the first war and retained their independence. The second ended with British victory and annexation of the Boer areas into the British colonies. The British employed scorched-earth tactics and held many Boers in concentration camps as a means to separate commandos from their source of shelter, food and supply. The strategy was employed effectively but an estimated 27,000 Boers (mainly women and children under sixteen) died in these camps from hunger and disease.\n\nIn the 1890s, some Boers trekked into Mashonaland, where they were concentrated at the town of Enkeldoorn, now Chivhu. After the second Boer War, more Boers left South Africa. Starting in 1902 to 1908 a large group of around 650 Afrikaners emigrated to the Patagonia region of Argentina (most notably to the towns of Comodoro Rivadavia and Sarmiento), choosing to settle there due to its similarity to the Karoo region of South Africa.\n\nAnother group emigrated to British-ruled Kenya, from where most returned to South Africa during the 1930s as a result of warfare there amongst indigenous people. A third group, under the leadership of General Ben Viljoen, emigrated to Chihuahua in northern Mexico and to states of Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas in the south-western USA. Others migrated to other parts of Africa, including German East Africa (present day Tanzania, mostly near Arusha).\n\nA significant number of Afrikaners also went as \"Dorsland Trekkers\" to Angola, where a large group settled on the Huíla Plateau, in Humpata, and smaller communities on the Central Highlands. They constituted a closed community which rejected integration as well as innovation, became impoverished in the course of several decades, and returned to South West Africa and South Africa in waves. \n\nA relatively large group of Boers settled in Kenya. The first wave of migrants consisted of individual families, followed by larger multiple-family treks. Some had arrived by 1904, as documented by the caption of a newspaper photograph noting a tent town for \"some of the early settlers from South Africa\" on what became the campus of the University of Nairobi. Probably the first to arrive was W.J. Van Breda (1903), followed by John de Waal and Frans Arnoldi at Nakuru (1906). Jannie De Beer's family resided at Athi River, while Ignatius Gouws resided at Solai.\n\nThe second wave of migrants is exemplified by Jan Janse van Rensburg's trek. Janse van Rensburg left the Transvaal on an exploratory trip to British East Africa in 1906 from Lourenço Marques (then Portuguese), Mozambique. Janse van Rensburg was inspired by an earlier Boer migrant, Abraham Joubert, who had moved to Nairobi from Arusha in 1906, along with others. When Joubert visited the Transvaal that year, Janse van Rensburg met with him. Sources disagree about whether Janse van Rensburg received guarantees for land from the Governor of the East Africa Protectorate, Sir James Hayes Sadler.\n\nOn his return to the Transvaal, van Rensburg recruited about 280 Afrikaners (comprising either 47 or 60 families) to accompany him to British East Africa. On 9 July 1908 his party sailed in the chartered ship \"SS Windhuk\" from Lourenço Marques to Mombasa, from where they boarded a train for Nairobi. The party travelled by five trains to Nakuru.\n\nIn 1911 the last of the large trek groups departed for Kenya, when some 60 families from the Orange Free State boarded the \"SS Skramstad\" in Durban under leadership of C.J. Cloete. But migration dwindled, partly due to the British secretary of state's (then Lord Crewe) cash requirements for immigrants. When the British granted self-government to the former Boer republics of the Transvaal and the Orange Free State in 1906 and 1907, respectively, the pressure for emigration decreased. A trickle of individual trekker families continued to migrate into the 1950s.\n\nA combination of factors spurred on Boer migration. Some, like Janse van Rensburg and Cloete, had collaborated with the British, or had surrendered during the Boer War. These \"joiners\" and \"hensoppers\" (\"hands-uppers\") subsequently experienced hostility from other Afrikaners. Many migrants were extremely poor and had subsisted on others' property. Collaborators tended to move to British East Africa, while those who had fought to the end (called \"bittereinders\") initially preferred German South West Africa.\n\nOne of the best known Boer settlements in the British East Africa Protectorate became established at Eldoret, in the south west of what became known as Kenya in 1920. By 1934 some 700 Boers lived here, near the Uganda border.\n\nWith the onset of the First World War in 1914, the Allies asked the Union of South Africa to attack the German territory of South West Africa, resulting in the South West Africa Campaign (1914–1915). Armed forces under the leadership of General Louis Botha defeated the German forces, who were unable to put up much resistance to the overwhelming South African forces.\n\nMany Boers, who had little love or respect for Britain, objected to the use of the \"children from the concentration camps\" to attack the anti-British Germans, resulting in the Maritz Rebellion of 1914, which was quickly quelled by the government forces.\n\nSome Boers subsequently moved to South West Africa, which was administered by South Africa until its independence in 1990, after which the country adopted the name Namibia.\n\nScholars have traditionally considered Afrikaners to be a homogeneous population of Dutch ancestry, subject to a significant founder effect. This simplistic viewpoint has been challenged by recent studies suggesting multiple uncertainties regarding the genetic composition of white South Africans at large and Afrikaners in particular.\n\nAfrikaners are descended, to varying degrees, from Dutch, German and French Huguenot immigrants, along with minor percentages of other Europeans and indigenous African peoples. The first mixed race marriage which took place in Cape Town in 1664 was that of Krotoa, a Khoi woman, and Peder Havgaard, a Danish surgeon. Krotoa and Peder's descendants are the Pelzer, Kruger, Steenkamp and other Afrikaner families. Although the Cape Colony was administered and initially settled by the Dutch East India Company (VOC), a number of foreigners also boarded ships in the Netherlands to settle there. Their numbers can be easily reconstructed from censuses of the Cape rather than passenger lists, taking into account VOC employees who later returned to Europe. Some Europeans also arrived from elsewhere in Holland's sphere, especially German soldiers being discharged from colonial service. As a result, by 1691 over a quarter of the white population of South Africa was not ethnically Dutch. The number of permanent settlers of both sexes and all ages, according to figures available at the onset of British rule, numbered 26,720, of whom 50% were Dutch, 27% German, 17% French and 5.5% other blood. This demographic breakdown of the community just prior to the end of the Dutch administration has been used in many subsequent studies to represent the ethnic makeup of modern Afrikaners, a practise criticised by some academics such as Dr. Johannes Heese.\n\nBased on his genealogical research of the period from 1657 to 1867, Dr. Johannes Heese in his study \"Die Herkoms van die Afrikaners\" estimated an average ethnic admixture for Afrikaners of 35.5% Dutch, 34.4% German, 13.9% French, 7.2% non-European, 2.6% English, 2.8% other European and 3.6% unknown. Heese achieved this conclusion by recording all the wedding dates and number of children of each immigrant. He then divided the period between 1657 and 1867 into six thirty-year blocs, and working under the assumption that earlier colonists contributed more to the gene pool, multiplied each child's bloodline by 32, 16, 8, 4, 2 and 1 according to respective period. Heese argued that previous studies wrongly classified some German progenitors as Dutch, although for the purposes of his own study he also reclassified a number of Scandinavian (especially Danish) progenitors as \"German\". Drawing heavily on Christoffel Coetzee de Villiers's \"Geslacht Register der Oude Kaapsche Familien\", British historian George McCall Theal estimated an admixture of 67% Dutch, with a nearly equal contribution of roughly 17% from the Huguenots and Germans. Theal argued that most studies suggesting a higher percentage of German ancestry among Afrikaners wrongly counted as \"German\" all those who came from German-speaking Swiss cantons and ignored the VOC's policy of recruiting settlers among the Dutch diaspora living in the border regions of several German states. He also pointed out the longstanding preponderance of Dutch women in the colony, and the fact that most of the German vrijburgers took Dutch wives.\n\nThe degree of intermixing among Afrikaners may be attributed to the unbalanced sex ratio which existed under Dutch governance. Only a handful of VOC employees who sailed from the Netherlands were allowed to bring their families with them, and the Dutch never employed European women in a full-time capacity. Between 1657 and 1806 no more than 454 women arrived at the Cape, as compared to the 1,590 male colonists. One of the most fundamental demographic consequences was that white South African women, much like their counterparts in colonial North America, began to marry much younger and consequently bear more children than Western Europeans. Another was the astonishingly high occurrence of inter-family marriages from the matrilineal aspect. These were reinforced by the familial interdependence of the Cape's credit and mortgage obligations. Afrikaner families thus became larger in size, more interconnected, and clannish than those of any other colonial establishment in the world. Some of the more common Afrikaner surnames include Botha, Pretorius and van der Merwe. As in other cases where large population groups have been propagated by a relatively small pool of progenitors, Afrikaners have also experienced a dramatic increase in the frequency of some otherwise rare deleterious ailments, including \"Variegate porphyria\".\n\nApproximately 100 black families who identify as Afrikaners live in the settlement of Onverwacht established in 1886 near the mining town of Cullinan. Members of the community descend from freed slaves accompanying Voortrekkers who settled in the area.\n\nIn South Africa, an Afrikaner minority party, the National Party, came to power in 1948 and enacted a series of segregationist laws favouring whites known as \"apartheid\". These laws allowed for the systematic persecution of opposition leaders and attempted to enforce general white supremacy by classifying all South African inhabitants into racial groups. Non-white political participation was outlawed, black citizenship revoked, and the entire public sphere, including education, residential areas, medical care and common areas such as public transportation, beaches and amenities, was segregated.\n\nApartheid was officially ended in 1990 after widespread unrest, led by supporters of the United Democratic Front, Pan-African Congress, South African Communist Party and African National Congress and a long embargo against South Africa. The factual end to apartheid, however, is widely regarded as the election of 1994. After a long series of negotiations involving the apartheid government under President Frederik Willem de Klerk the ANC under Nelson Mandela, and other parties a democratic, multi-racial election was held, transitioning power from the National Party to the African National Congress.\n\nEfforts are being made by some Afrikaners to secure minority rights even though protection of minority rights is fundamental to the new 1996 post-apartheid Constitution of South Africa. These efforts include the Volkstaat movement. In contrast, a handful of Afrikaners have joined the ruling African National Congress party, which is overwhelmingly supported by South Africa's black majority.\n\nEmployment Equity legislation favours employment of black (African, Indian, Chinese and Coloured population groups, white women, disabled people) South Africans over white men. Black Economic Empowerment legislation further favours blacks as the government considers ownership, employment, training and social responsibility initiatives which empower black South Africans as important criteria when awarding tenders. However, private enterprise adheres to this legislation voluntarily. Some reports indicate a growing number of whites suffering poverty compared to the pre-apartheid years and attribute this to such laws — over 350,000 Afrikaners may be classified as poor, with some research claiming that up to 150,000 are struggling for survival. This combined with a wave of violent crime has led to vast numbers of Afrikaners and English-speaking South Africans leaving the country.\n\nGenocide Watch has theorised that farm attacks constitute early warning signs of genocide against Afrikaners and has criticised the South African government for its inaction on the issue, pointing out that the murder rate for them (\"ethno-European farmers\" in their report, which also included non-Afrikaner farmers of European race) is four times that of the general South African population. There are 40,000 white farmers in South Africa. Since 1994 close to three thousand farmers have been murdered in thousands of farm attacks, with many being brutally tortured and/or raped. \nSince 1994, there has been significant emigration of white people from South Africa. There are thus currently large Afrikaner and English-speaking South African communities in the UK and other developed countries. Between 1995-2005, more than one million South Africans have emigrated overseas, citing violent and racially motivated black on white crime as the main reason. Farmers have emigrated to other parts of Africa (e.g. North Eastern Congo) to develop efficient commercial farming there.\n\nThere were 133,324 speakers of Afrikaans in Namibia, forming 9.5% of the total national population, according to the 1991 census. However the majority of these speakers come from the Coloured and Baster communities. Afrikaners are mostly found in Windhoek and in the Southern provinces and have a population of around 100,000 in Namibia.\n\nA significant number of Afrikaners have migrated to Commonwealth nations such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand. Other popular destinations include the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates and Hong Kong, as well as Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Qatar.\n\nA large number of young Afrikaners are taking advantage of working holiday visas made available by the United Kingdom, as well as the Netherlands and Belgium, to gain work experience. The scheme under which UK working holiday visas were issued ended on 27 November 2008 and has been replaced by the Tier 5 (Youth Mobility) visa. South Africa has been excluded from the working holiday visa programme in the UK, Belgium, Netherlands and the rest of the EU.\n\nAs of 2011, Georgia is encouraging Afrikaner immigration to assist in reviving the country's agriculture industry, which has fallen on hard times.\n\nTraditionally Christian, Calvinism of Boers in South Africa developed in much the same way as the New England colonies in North America. The original South African Boer republics were founded on the principles of the Dutch Reformed Church.\nIn 1985, 92% of Afrikaners were members of Reformed churches. Various national Christian events are widely attended, the most recent was held by Angus Buchan in Bloemfontein with over a million people, mostly Afrikaners \n\nThe Afrikaans language changed over time from the Dutch spoken by the first white settlers at the Cape. From the late 17th century, the form of Dutch spoken at the Cape developed differences, mostly in morphology but also in pronunciation and accent and, to a lesser extent, in syntax and vocabulary, from that of the Netherlands, although the languages are still similar enough to be mutually intelligible. Settlers who arrived speaking German and French soon shifted to using Dutch and later Afrikaans. The process of language change was influenced by the languages spoken by slaves, Khoikhoi and people of mixed descent, as well as by Cape Malay, Zulu, British and Portuguese. While the Dutch of the Netherlands remained the official language, the new dialect, often known as Cape Dutch, African Dutch, \"kitchen Dutch\", or \"taal\" (meaning \"language\" in Afrikaans) developed into a separate language by the 19th century, with much work done by the Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners and other writers such as Cornelis Jacobus Langenhoven. In a 1925 act of Parliament, Afrikaans was given equal status with Dutch as one of the two official languages (English being the second) of the Union of South Africa. There was much objection to the attempt to legislate the creation of Afrikaans as a new language. Marthinus Steyn, a prominent jurist and politician, and others were vocal in their opposition. Today, Afrikaans is recognised as one of the eleven official languages of the new South Africa, and is the third largest mother tongue spoken in South Africa. In June 2013, the Department of Basic Education included Afrikaans as an African language to be compulsory for all pupils, according to a new policy.\n\nAfrikaans is offered at many universities outside of South Africa including in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Poland, Russia and America.\n\nAfrikaners have a long literary tradition, and have produced a number of notable novelists and poets, including Nobel Prize winner J.M. Coetzee, Eugene Marais, Uys Krige, Elisabeth Eybers, Breyten Breytenbach, André Brink, C. J. Langenhoven and Etienne Leroux.\n\nMusic is probably the most popular art form among Afrikaners. While the traditional \"Boeremusiek\" (\"Boer music\") and \"Volkspele\" (\"people games\") folk dancing enjoyed popularity in the past, most Afrikaners today favour a variety of international genres and light popular Afrikaans music. American country and western music has enjoyed great popularity and has a strong following among many South Africans. Some also enjoy a social dance event called a \"sokkie\". The South African rock band Seether has a hidden track on their album \"Karma and Effect\" titled \"Kom Saam Met My\" (\"Come With Me\"), sung in Afrikaans. There is also an underground rock music movement and bands like the controversial Fokofpolisiekar have a large following. The television Channel MK (channel) also supports local Afrikaans music and mainly screens videos from the Afrikaans Rock genre.\n\nRugby, cricket and golf are generally considered to be the most popular sports among Afrikaners. Rugby in particular is considered one of the central pillars of the Afrikaner community. The national rugby team, the Springboks, did not compete in the first two rugby world cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa but later on the Springboks won the 1995 and 2007 Rugby World Cups.\n\n\"Boere-sport\" also played a big role in the Afrikaner history. It consisted of a variety of sports like tug of war, three-legged races, jukskei, skilpadloop (tortoise walk) and other games.\n\nThe world's first ounce-denominated gold coin, the Krugerrand, was struck at the South African Mint on 3 July 1967. The name Krugerrand was derived from \"Kruger\" (after President Paul Kruger) and the \"rand\" monetary unit of South Africa.\n\nIn April 2007, the South African Mint coined a collectors R1 gold coin commemorating the Afrikaner people as part of its cultural series, depicting the Great Trek across the Drakensberg mountains.\n\nThe \"Afrikaanse Taal en Kultuurvereniging\" (ATKV) (\"Afrikaans Language and Culture Association\") is responsible for promoting the Afrikaans language and culture.\n\n\"Die Voortrekkers\" is a youth movement for Afrikaners in South Africa and Namibia with a membership of over 10 000 active members to promote cultural values, maintaining norms and standards as Christians, and being accountable members of public society.\n\nAn estimated 88% of Afrikaners supported the Democratic Alliance, the official opposition party, in the 2014 general election. The Democratic Alliance is a Liberal Party and a full member of Liberal International.\n\nSmaller numbers are involved in nationalist or separatist political organisations. The Freedom Front Plus is an Afrikaner ethnic political party which lobbies for minority rights to be granted to all of the South African ethnic minorities. The Freedom Front Plus is also leading the Volkstaat initiative and is closely associated with the small town of Orania. Freedom Front Plus leader Dr Pieter Mulder served as Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in the Cabinet of President Jacob Zuma from 2009 to 2014.\n\nOnly approximately 2% of Afrikaans-speaking white South Africans vote for the ruling ANC. Some prominent Afrikaner ANC Cabinet Ministers include the Minister of Science and Technology Derek Hanekom, the Minister of Tourism and former leader of the New National Party Marthinus van Schalkwyk, Deputy Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development Andries Nel, Deputy Minister of Sport and Recreation Gert Oosthuizen and former ANC Spokesman Carl Niehaus.\n\nIn an online poll of the Beeld newspaper during November 2012, in which nearly 11,000 Afrikaners participated, 42% described themselves as conservative and 36% as liberal. Social attitudes have become increasingly liberal since the disestablishment of apartheid in the 1990s, and in a 2015 poll only 57% of Afrikaners claimed to oppose abortion on demand while 46% claimed to be opposed to Homosexualism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24201529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201529", "title": "Afzal Rahman Khan", "text": "Afzal Rahman Khan\n\nVice-Admiral Afzal Akram Rahman Khan (Urdu: افضل رحمان خان; born: 1921— 2005; popularly known as Admiral A. R. Khan), HQA, HPk, HJ, was a three-star rank admiral, politician, and the Commander in Chief of Pakistan Navy, serving under President Ayub Khan from 1959 until 1966.\n\nPrior to that, he also simultaneously served in the Ayub Khan's administration as an Interior Minister and Defence Minister until resigning when General Yahya Khan, an Army Commander-in-Chief, enforced a martial law in 1969. Gaining commission in Royal Indian Navy in 1938, he served in first war with India in 1947 in non-combat operations but earned notability and prestige when he commanded the Pakistan Navy against Indian Navy during the war with India in 1965.\n\nIn addition, he is noted for being the longest serving commander-in-chief of navy as well as responsible for launching and introducing the submarine program in the navy.\n\nAfzal Akram Rahman Khan was born in British Indian Empire in 1921, and it is known very little on his early life primarily based on literature published in combined military history of Pakistan and India. As many of his contemporaries in the British Indian military, he was educated at the Rashtriya Indian Military College at Dehradun, and gained commission as a Midshipman in the Royal Indian Navy in 1938. He was also trained as naval artillery specialist from Britannia Royal Naval College in United Kingdom and participated in World War II on behalf of Great Britain.\n\nAfter World War II, he studied at the Command and Staff College in 1945 and graduated with a staff course degree in 1946. During this time, he was contemporary to Gopal Gurunath Bewoor (), Iqbal Khan and Abdul Hamid Khan– all became generals in Indian and Pakistan Army. He provided his gunnery services to \"HMS Duke of York\" at the time of the partition of British India and decided to opted for Pakistan in 1947. He did not actively participated in first war with India in 1947, instead he commanded a destroyer from Karachi to Mumbai to oversee the evacuation of Indian emigrants to Pakistan. He was among the first twenty naval officers who joined the Royal Pakistan Navy (RPN) as a Lieutenant with a service number PN. 0006. He was the third most senior Lieutenant in the navy in terms of seniority list provided by the Royal Indian Navy to the Ministry of Defense (MoD) in 1947.\n\nIn 1949, he was promoted as Lieutenant-Commander and served as commanding officer of PNS Tariq, the first destroyer, when it was commissioned from the Royal Navy on 30 September 1949. In 1950, he was promoted as Commander and commanded the \"Tippu Sultan\" and sailed on a goodwill mission to Middle East and Eastern Europe; he visited Jeddah, Malta, Venice, Athens, Istanbul, Izmir and Crete.\n\nIn 1951, he participated in Task Force 91 that was held in Trincomalee Sri Lanka with the Royal Navy. At Trincomalee, they had a rendezvous with a large force (9 ships) of the Royal Navy, the Indian Navy and the Royal Ceylon Navy. It led to 14 days of strenuous exercises in harbour and at sea. The officers and men from these ships also took part in various Inter Services Tournaments. His career progressed well in the navy and helped establish the Naval Intelligence (NI) and helped establish the Karachi Naval Dockyard.\n\nIn 1958–59, the Naval NHQ staff had been in a brief conflict with the Ministry of Defence over the rearmament issues which eventually led the resignation of Vice-Admiral HMS Choudrie. Afzal Rahman Khan was never appointed to four-star admiral rank but nonetheless was appointed as Commander in Chief of Pakistan Navy after his nomination papers were approved by then-President Iskander Mirza in 1959.\n\nPrior to his appointment as commander in chief of navy, his command responsibilities included as his role as Commander Pakistan Fleet (COMPAK) and Commander Logistics (COMLOG) commands headquartered in Karachi, Sindh with being promoted to the two-star rank of Rear-Admiral. After promoting as Vice-Admiral, he oversaw the induction of submarines in the navy in 1960s; for this, he is viewed as the \"father of submarines force\" of Pakistan Navy.\n\nHe earned public notability when he acted as a leader during the war with India in 1965 despite having prior no knowledge on covert operation in Indian Kashmir. He oversaw the planning of and execution of the naval operation to attack the Indian Navy which earned him the prestige in the country. After the war, he was publicly honored and was decorated with Hilal-i-Jurat by President Ayub Khan. He is noted for his multiple extension in the navy that made him noted as the longest serving chief of staff of navy.\n\nHe was known to be closer to President Ayub Khan who appointed him as the Defence and Interior Minister in 1966 while serving as an active-duty admiral. About the uprising and riots in East-Pakistan in 1969, Vice-Admiral Rahman told the journalists that the \"country was under the Mob rule and that Police were not strong enough to tackle the situation.\" He served in ministerial post until 1969 when President Ayub Khan resigned and handed over the presidency to his Army Commander-in-Chief General Yahya Khan who suspended the Constitution. In protest to the martial law, Vice-Admiral A.R. Khan resigned from his portfolio on 25 March 1969. Khan resigned from the ministries as a protest when General Yahya Khan, instituted another martial law on 25 March 1969.\n\nAfter his resignation, Khan retired from national politics and moved to Islamabad in 1969 where he lived a very quiet and private life. He did not comment on war with India in 1971 as he diminished his role from the politics in 1970s. In 1987, the Pakistan Navy honored him after establishing a naval base under his name. The PNS Akram now serves as a forward operating base for the Navy and acts as a depot for all naval personnel stationed west of Ormara.\n\nHe avoided the media and lived on a military pensions; he died at an old age in Islamabad in 2005. His death went unnoticed in the media and was quietly buried in Islamabad with close family members attending his funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "6911330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6911330", "title": "Alpana Singh", "text": "Alpana Singh\n\nAlpana Singh (born November 1976) is an American Master Sommelier, restaurateur and local television personality in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nSingh is a second-generation Indian American, born and raised in Monterey, California. Her parents are Fiji Indians who migrated from Fiji to California. The family owned and ran an ethnic grocery store. Her father was a chef for 30 years.\n\nSingh's first job in the restaurant business outside the family business was as a waitress at Bakers Square. After an aborted attempt to join the US Air Force (due to a failed medical exam), she applied for a job at a fine dining restaurant but needed better background on wines. She self-educated and re-applied for the job, impressing the interviewer, who hired her and encouraged her to continue her studies. She became a sales clerk at Nielsen Bros. Market in Carmel, California which further exposed her to the wine business.\n\nSingh passed the Court of Master Sommeliers' advanced certification test at age 21. In 2003, she passed the final exam to become the youngest woman ever to achieve the rank of Master Sommelier. (The master sommelier exam has an approximately 3% pass rate.)\n\nBeginning at age 23, she served as sommelier at Chicago restaurant, Everest. She later became Director of Wine and Spirits for Lettuce Entertain You Enterprises, a large Chicago-based chain of restaurants.\n\nSingh became especially well known for hosting the local Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) public television station WTTW's restaurant review show \"Check, Please!\" and her regular appearances on \"Chicago Tonight\" for the \"Ask Alpana\" segment on Thursday evenings. She replaced the original host of \"Check, Please!\", Amanda Puck, in October 2003 and remained in that role until 2013, when she was replaced by Catherine De Orio. In 2018, however, Singh was reported to be returning to the show, signing a two-year contract.\n\nSingh authored the 2006 book \"Alpana Pours: About Being a Woman, Loving Wine, and Having Great Relationships\" () and writes a column on wine for \"RedEye\".\n\nIn December 2012, Singh opened The Boarding House, a wine-driven concept in the River North neighborhood. The four-story restaurant received national attention from \"Forbes Travel Guide\" (Top 40 Tastemakers), \"Food & Wine\" (Sommeliers of the Year), \"Market Watch\", \"Sommelier Journal\", \"Restaurant Hospitality\", \"Midwest Living\" and others. Additional accolades include \"100 Best Wine Restaurants\" (\"Wine Enthusiast\"), \"Pastry Chefs to Watch\" (\"Time Out Chicago\"), \"2013 Best New Restaurants\" (\"Chicago Magazine\"), and nominations for best restaurant design from the Eater Awards and Jean Banchet Awards. Singh closed out the restaurant’s first successful year with an all-female culinary and beverage team, and the honor of Sommelier of the Year 2013 Wine Star award from \"Wine Enthusiast\".\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, Singh appeared as a judge on the Food Network television show \"Food Truck Face Off\". The television show premiered just prior to Singh running her first marathon and opening her second restaurant, Seven Lions, an American concept, located on Chicago's Michigan Avenue.\n\nSingh sold her ownership in Seven Lions in October 2017 while preparing to run for public office (Cook County commissioner for the Third District), which she later decided against pursuing. According to \"Eater\", Singh stated in July 2018 she sold ownership of both her restaurants The Boarding House and Seven Lions in October 2017. The Boarding House closed in July 2018. Singh still owns a third restaurant, Terra & Vine, in nearby Evanston, Illinois.\n\nIn 2006, Singh married fiction writer Charles Blackstone; the couple divorced in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55922728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55922728", "title": "Amaryllis Collymore", "text": "Amaryllis Collymore\n\nAmaryllis Collymore (1745–1828) was an Afro-Barbadian slave who gained her freedom from her relationship with a white man. The couple had eleven children and she successfully ran a plantation allowing her to acquire numerous other properties, to become the wealthiest free black woman in the colony at the time of her death.\n\nAmaryllis Renn Phillips was born into slavery in 1745 on Barbados, during British colonial rule where records indicate she was a mulatto. She was purchased by Robert Collmore in 1780, from Rebecca Phillips, a free coloured hotelier, along with her five mulatto children, four of whom were Robert's children. In 1784, Robert arranged their manumission by selling her and the children to a friend, James Scuffield. Selling a slave to a trusted third-party to avoid high manumission fees was a common practice during the period in Barbados.\n\nRobert acquired \"Lightfoots\", a 42-acre sugar plantation with its 44 slaves, to provide for her and the children. Collymore expanded the estate to over a hundred acres and was able to buy seven properties throughout Bridgetown, on Canary Street, High Street and James Street, which she rented out. She also ran a successful shop. By 1805, Collymore owned another property, on Roebuck Street, which she sold for £800. She and her daughter, Katherine Anne Collymore, were the recipients of a bequest from Renn Phillips in his 1809 will. \n\nIn 1824, when Robert died, he bequeathed she and her eleven children, full title to \"Lightfoots\" and the slaves working on the plantation. Among her children, besides Katherine were Frances Lasley, Margaret Jane, and Robert (baptized 18 February 1792), Thomazin Ashby (baptized 6 June 1795), Elizabeth Clarke (baptized 13 June 1798), Samuel Francis Collymore, Jackson Brown Collymore and Renn Phillips Collymore, who would become the great-great grandfather of Frank Collymore. Collymore's will, dated 1826 (or 1829 but which was probably the date the estate was probated), left her estate, worth over £10,000 to relatives. She devised a home in Bridgetown and a plantation known as Haggat Hall, and 67 slaves, as well as silver and personal property. At the time of her death she was \"the richest free woman of color in pre-emancipation Barbados\".\n\nCollymore died on 16 December 1828 and was buried in the St. Mary's Churchyard in Bridgetown. The house that Collymore and her children occupied is now the Morningside Building, and houses the Arts Department of the Barbados Community College. \n\n"}
{"id": "6975055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6975055", "title": "Amenhotep, son of Hapu", "text": "Amenhotep, son of Hapu\n\nAmenhotep, son of Hapu (transcribed \"jmn-ḥtp zꜣ ḥꜣp.w\"; early-mid 14th century BC) was an ancient Egyptian architect, a priest, a scribe, and a public official, who held a number of offices under Amenhotep III of the 18th Dynasty.\n\nHe is said to have been born at the end of Thutmose III's reign, in the town of Athribis (modern Banha in the north of Cairo). His father was Hapu, and his mother Itu. Though little about Amenhotep's early life is known prior to his entering civil service, it is believed that he learnt to read and write at the local library and scriptorium. He was a priest and a Scribe of Recruits (organizing the labour and supplying the manpower for the Pharaoh's projects, both civilian and military). He was also an architect and supervised several building projects, among them Amenhotep III's mortuary temple at western Thebes, of which only two statues remain nowadays, known as the Colossi of Memnon, and the creation of the quarry of El-Gabal el-Ahmar, nearby Heliopolis, from which the blocks used to create the Colossi were probably taken. Other plans, such as the portico of the Temple of Karnak, completed under Ramesses II, and those for the Luxor Temple are also attributed to Amenhotep. He may also have been the architect of the Temple of Soleb in Nubia. Amenhotep is noted to have participated in Amenhotep III's first Sed festival, in the 30th year of the king's rule. After this, he is believed to have retired from civil service and become the steward of Princess Sitamun's properties (similar to an asset manager today), and received honours such as the designation of Fan-bearer on the Right Side of the King, among other things. According to some reliefs in the tomb of Ramose, he may have died in the 31st year of Amenhotep III, which would correspond to either 1360 BC or 1357 BC, depending on the chronology used. His death has also been dated to the 35th year of the king.\nAfter his death, his reputation grew and he was revered for his teachings and as a philosopher. He was also revered as a healer and eventually worshipped as a god of healing, like his predecessor Imhotep (the latter and Amenhotep being the only two commoners ever deified in the history of ancient Egypt). There are several surviving statues of him as a scribe, portraying him as a young man and as an older man. He was a deified human and thus was depicted only in human form. His cult was initially limited to the Thebes area, with a funerary temple constructed to him during his lifetime next to that of Amenhotep III. This was clearly an exceptional privilege, as it was the only private cult temple to be built among the royal monuments in the area. He continued to be worshipped for at least three centuries after his death, and evidence of this worship persists in a 26th Dynasty votary inscription on a statue dedicated to Amenhotep by a daughter of the pharaoh. During the period of the Ptolemaic Kingdom, his worship saw a resurgence which led to chapels being dedicated to him in the Temple of Hathor at Deir el-Medina and the Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut at Deir el-Bahari. Statues were erected to him in the Temple of Amun at Karnak and he was treated as an intermediary with the god Amun. Amenhotep also utilised his influence with the king to secure royal patronage for the town of Athribis, for the local god, and the temple dedicated to that god.\n\nManetho gives a legendary account of how Amenhotep advised a king named Amenophis, who was \"desirous to become a spectator of the gods, as had Orus, one of his predecessors in that kingdom, desired the same before him\". This Amenophis is commonly identified with Akhenaton also known as Amenhotep IV, while Orus fits with the latter's father, Amenhotep III. Manetho relates that the wise man counseled that the king should \"clear the whole country of the lepers and of the other impure people\" and that the King then sent 80,000 lepers to the quarries. After this the wise man foresaw that the lepers would ally themselves with people coming to their help and subdue Egypt. He put the prophecy into letter to the King and then killed himself. Manetho associates this event with the Exodus of the Israelites from Egypt, but Josephus strongly rejects this interpretation.\n\nAmenhotep was allowed to build his mortuary temple adjacent to that of the pharaoh. This honour is quite rare and indicates that Amenhotep was highly respected by the time of his death, despite the fact that he was a commoner and had only entered civil service at an advanced age, in his late forties. Excavated in 1934 or 1935, it measures 45 × 110 metres and is surrounded by three shrines. His first courtyard contained a 25 x 26 m water basin of considerable depth, fed by groundwater from the Nile. Twenty trees were planted in pits around the basin. The temple at the end of the courtyard was adorned with a pillared portico, and the temple was slightly elevated on a terrace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259516", "title": "Arnie Lerma", "text": "Arnie Lerma\n\nArnaldo Pagliarini \"Arnie\" Lerma (November 18, 1950 – March 16, 2018) was an American writer and activist, a former Scientologist, and a critic of Scientology who appeared in television, media and radio interviews. Lerma was the first person to post the court document known as the Fishman Affidavit, including the Xenu story, to the Internet via the Usenet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology.\n\nLerma was born in Washington, D.C. in 1950.\n\nLerma started in Scientology at the age of 16 at the urging of his mother, an executive director for the Washington, DC church. He was impressed by L. Ron Hubbard's exaggerated account of his military career and scientific credentials.\n\nLerma joined Scientology's Sea Org and was assigned in 1976 to a post working alongside Hubbard's daughter Suzette. He later claimed that they became romantically involved and planned to elope, though others have disputed this. Lerma alleged that other Sea Org officers discovered their plans and threatened to mutilate him if he did not cancel the marriage. Lerma quit Scientology soon afterward.\n\nAfter Lerma posted the Fishman Affidavit in August 1995, his home was raided by federal marshals and lawyers from the Church of Scientology, alleging he was in possession of copyrighted documents. A lawsuit was filed against Lerma and his Internet service provider by the church's Religious Technology Center (RTC), claiming copyright infringement and trade secret misappropriation.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and two investigative reporters were added to the lawsuit, as an article written about the raid contained three brief quotes from Scientology \"Advanced Technology\" documents.\n\n\"The Washington Post\", et al., were released from the suit when United States District Judge Leonie Brinkema ruled in a memorandum on November 28, 1995\n\nThe memorandum opinion acknowledges what Scientology practices to this day: the \"Fair Game\" policy, a written directive by L. Ron Hubbard that encourages harassment of anyone who speaks out against the church. In conclusion, the court awarded RTC the statutory minimum of $2,500 for five instances of non-willful copyright violation.\n\nLerma started a website called \"Lermanet\", which concentrates on news about Scientology and on documenting lawsuits by Scientology. He was also noted for discovering an altered picture on a Scientology website on New Year's Eve in 1999, one that appeared to inflate the number of members attending a millennial event at the Los Angeles Sports Arena in California. He posted the pictures to his website identifying the alterations, with the most prominent feature being the \"man with no head\". The story appeared on national television and in the press.\n\nLerma committed suicide by gunshot at his home in Sylvania, Georgia, on March 16, 2018, after shooting his wife, Ginger Sugerman, in the face. Sugarman survived.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5309138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5309138", "title": "Bambang Pamungkas", "text": "Bambang Pamungkas\n\nBambang Pamungkas (born 10 June 1980), also known as Bepe, is an Indonesian professional footballer who plays for Persija Jakarta in the Liga 1 and previously the Indonesia national football team. His natural position is striker. Bambang made his name in South East Asian football when he scored the only goal for Indonesia at the 2002 Tiger Cup semifinal against Malaysia, and was the tournament's top scorer with eight goals.\n\nBambang is considered to be an outstanding header of the ball, and has a reputation for sharpness in the penalty box. He is Indonesia's record holder in terms of both appearances and goalscoring, earning 86 caps and 38 goals with the Indonesia national team, and is perhaps the team's most popular player among its supporters. He was considered one of top ten Asian players of 2012 by ESPN Soccernet.\n\nBambang played for several clubs around his hometown as a youth, before beginning his senior career with Persija Jakarta. He was the club's top goalscorer in 1999–2000 Liga Indonesia with 24 goals. In 2000, he joined EHC Norad in the Dutch Third Division. But after only 4 months he returned to Persija, the only Indonesian club he ever played for.\n\nBambang helped his club to win the Liga Indonesia in 2001, and he was awarded the accolade of that season's best player. Persija Jakarta narrowly missed out on winning the championship again in 2004 by one point. The following season Persija reached the 2005 final, but lost 2–3 to Persipura Jayapura.\n\nShortly afterwards Bambang accepted an offer to play in the Malaysian Football League with Selangor FA, along with national teammate Elie Aiboy. In his first season in Malaysia he won the Premier League Malaysia, FA Cup Malaysia, and Malaysia Cup, and became the league's top-scorer with 23 goals in 24 matches. During two seasons in Malaysia he scored 63 goals in four competitions: Malaysia Premier League, Malaysia Super League, FA Cup Malaysia, Malaysia Cup, AFC Cup. Despite having scored a total of 178 goals in Liga Indonesia, like Singaporean forward Indra Sahdan Daud, Bambang lost his place in the nation team to foreign-born talent.\n\nIn 2008, despite interests from English club Derby County, he opted to stay in Indonesia.\n\nIn 2010, he had a trial at FC Ingolstadt 04, but failed to secure a contract.\n\nOn 9 December 2013, he signed a one-year contract with Pelita Bandung Raya.\n\nOn 3 December 2014, he moved back to Persija Jakarta.\n\nIn 1998 Bambang's international career began when he was selected to play for the Indonesian youth team; his tally of seven goals in the Asian Cup U-19 Group V made him the competition's top scorer. He made his senior international debut the following year in a friendly match against Lithuania, in which he scored one goal. His total of 38 goals for his country make him the national team's highest-ever goalscorer.\n\nBambang has taken part in four FIFA World Cup qualification campaigns (2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014), playing in 14 matches and scoring 3 times. Bambang has also been involved in three AFC Asian Cups: 2000, 2004 and 2007. He scored a goal against Bahrain in the 2007 AFC Asian Cup, in a match Indonesia won 2–1.\n\nIn the 2002 Tiger Cup, Bambang was the top scorer with 8 goals, but an injury ruled him out of the Indonesian squad for the 2004 event. He scored twice in the 2008 AFF Suzuki Cup, once against Myanmar and once against Cambodia. In 2010 AFF Suzuki Cup Bambang scored two goals in a match against Thailand, both from penalty kicks. He has scored a total of 12 goals in the ASEAN Football Championship, making him the 5th-highest goalscorer in ASEAN Football Championship history.\n\nOn 18 December 2011, following the match between Sriwijaya and Persija Jakarta, Bambang, Ismed Sofyan, and Leo Saputra were involved in an assault on Hilton Moreira at his hotel, allegedly provoked by Hilton's behaviour during the match.\n\nBambang is one of the leading advocates for player welfare and rights in Indonesia.\n\nBambang is married to Tribuana Tungga Dewi, with whom he has three daughters: Salsa Alicia, Jane Abel, Syaura Abana. The second youngest of 7 children. he initially had no thoughts of becoming a footballer. He likes reading and cooking, and has ambitions to become a teacher or a chef once his footballing career is over.\n\nBambang devotes some of his free time to charity work, promoting the Bambang Pamungkas Foundation that he set up to provide financial assistance and resources to schools in Indonesia. He is also involved in raising funds for children's cancer charities.\n\nAs a well-known public figure, Bambang has appeared in many product endorsements, including for Biskuat, Ti Phone, Nike, Bodrex, and Kuku Bima.\n\nBambang has written a book in Bahasa Indonesia, \"Ketika Jemariku Menari\", relating his life, his career, and his teammates at club and national level, especially during the AFF 2010 campaign. Former Indonesia national team manager Ivan Venkov Kolev comments in the book that Bambang is \"One striker rare in Indonesia. Commitment and professionalism are hallmarks of rare skill players in Indonesia\".\n\nPamungkas has been chosen as a torch bearer for 2012 Summer Olympics flame passage through Calderdale on 24 June 2012.\n\nPersija\nSelangor\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23086740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23086740", "title": "Charles Catton", "text": "Charles Catton\n\nCharles Catton RA (1728 in Norwich – 28 August 1798, in London), sometimes referred to as Charles Catton the elder, was a notable English coach painter, landscape, animal and figure painter of the late 18th century, and one of the founder members of the Royal Academy.\n\nCatton was born in Norwich, Norfolk, in 1728, and said to be one of 35 children that his father had from his two marriages. He was apprenticed to a London coach painter, or, according to some sources, a carpenter by the name of Maxwell, and studied drawing at the St. Martin's Lane Academy. He was mainly known as a landscape and animal painter, but also had a good knowledge of the figure, and a talent for humorous design. In 1781, he published an etching called \"The Margate Packet\".\n\nHe became a member of the Society of Artists, and exhibited various pictures in its galleries in 1760–4. He was outstanding as a coach painter, producing ornamental panels for carriages, floral embellishments, and heraldic devices to the highest quality, eventually becoming coach-painter to George III.\n\nHe was a founding member of the Royal Academy, and, in 1784, was master of the Worshipful Company of Painter-Stainers. He exhibited at the Academy from its foundation until the year of his death. The works he showed were usually landscapes, but occasionally subject and animal paintings, his last exhibits there being \"Jupiter and Leda\" and \"Child at play\". He painted an altarpiece, \"The Angel delivering St. Peter\", for the church of St Peter Mancroft in Norwich.\n\nHe retired from painting some years before his death. He died at his house in Judd Place, New Road, London, on 28 August 1798, and was buried in Bloomsbury cemetery.\nHis son, Charles Catton the younger (1756–1819), who was listed in Royal Academy catalogues as living at his father's house in Gate Street, gained a reputation as a scene-painter and topographical draughtsman. He emigrated to the United States. Among Catton's pupils was John Durand.\n\nAttribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "869069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869069", "title": "Danie Craven", "text": "Danie Craven\n\nDaniël Hartman Craven (11 October 1910 – 4 January 1993) was a South African rugby union player (1931–38), national coach, national and international rugby administrator, academic, and author. Popularly known as Danie, Doc, or Mr Rugby, Craven's appointment from 1949 to 1956 as coach of the Springboks signalled \"one of the most successful spells in South African rugby history\" during which the national team won 74% of their matches. While as a player Craven is mostly remembered as one of rugby's greatest dive-passing scrumhalves ever, he had also on occasion been selected to play for the Springboks as a centre, fly-half, No.8, and full-back. As the longest-serving President of the South African Rugby Board (1956–93) and chairman of the International Rugby Board (1962, 1973, 1979), Craven became one of the best-known and most controversial rugby administrators.\n\nCraven earned doctorates in ethnology (1935), psychology (1973) and physical education (1978). He not only created the physical training division of the South African Defence Force (1941) but became the first professor of physical education at Stellenbosch University (1949).\n\nDanie Craven was born on 11 October 1911 to James Roos Craven (b. 28 June 1882) and Maria Susanna Hartman (d. 1958) on Steeton Farm near Lindley, a small town on the Vals River in eastern Free State province of South Africa. Craven was the third of seven children. The family farm was named for Steeton in West Yorkshire, home to Craven's paternal grandfather, John Craven (1837–90), who came to South Africa as a diamond prospector. Craven later also named his home in Stellenbosch Steeton. His father, aged 18, fought against the British during the Anglo-Boer War and was interned in a British concentration camp, a fate that reportedly also befell his mother.\n\nAs a young boy Craven played barefoot soccer, and received his first lessons at a farm school. At the age of 13 he was sent to Lindley High School, and started playing rugby with a stone in the dusty town streets. At school he shone at cricket and rugby. In the following year Craven was selected to play for the town's adult team, but his principal, Tivoli van Huyssteen, prevented him from playing until he turned 15. Among his Lindley teammates was Lappies Hattingh, who would play with Craven 8 years later in the Springbok team against the Wallabies.\n\nIn 1929 Craven enrolled at Stellenbosch University in the Western Cape. He initially registered as a theology student, but later switched to Social Sciences and Social Anthropology. The switch was prompted by medical advice after his vocal chords were damaged by a kick to the throat while he tried to stop charging forwards during the 1932 test against Scotland.\n\nCraven lodged in Wilgenhof Men's Residence, following in the footsteps of his maternal grandfather, George Nathaniel Hayward (1886–1977). In 1903 Hayward had been one of Wilgenhof's first residents. An all-round athlete, Craven represented his university in rugby, swimming (captain), water polo and baseball. He also participated in track and field, and played cricket, tennis, and soccer.\n\nCraven obtained his BA (1932) as well as a MA (1933) and PhD (1935) in Ethnology at Stellenbosch. His PhD dissertation was titled \"Ethnological classification of the South African Bantu\". His third doctorate was for his thesis on \"Evolution of Modern Games.\" He was appointed as Stellenbosch's first professor of Physical Education in 1949, and served in that capacity until 1975.\n\nAfter completing his education at Stellenbosch, Craven started teaching at St. Andrew's College in Grahamstown, Eastern Cape, in 1936. He coached the school's rugby side, and while there he was selected for the 1937 Springbok tour.\n\nCraven joined the Union Defence Force in 1938 as Director of Physical Education and was sent to Europe to study physical education in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, France, and Britain. The imminent outbreak of war forced the Cravens to return to South Africa. Craven was appointed head of physical education at the South African military academy with the rank of Major. When his section was established as a separate Physical Training Brigade in 1947, Craven was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel and Director of the brigade. His military career was momentarily interrupted in 1947 as he was appointed lecturer in the Union Education Department at Stellenbosch University before returning to the brigade.\n\nDue to his fame as Springbok Craven's image was used in Afrikaans language newspapers during the Second World War to encourage men to enlist. The advertisement showed Craven in uniform, looking into the distance and announcing, 'I am playing in the biggest Springbok team ever; join me and score the most important try of your life.'\n\nAt university Craven found a mentor in Stellenbosch coach and national selector A.F. (\"Oubaas Mark\") Markötter, in charge of the university team from 1903 to 1957. Markötter noticed Craven from the time he starting playing as a 19-year-old in 1929, and promoted him to the first team the following year.\n\nCraven was selected as a Springbok in 1931 before he had made his provincial debut for Western Province in 1932. In a match against Free State in Bloemfontein that year he scored a hat-trick of tries in a performance regarded as one of his best.\n\nIn 1936 he worked in Grahamstown, and so started playing for Eastern Province, alongside Flappie Lochner. At Craven's suggestion, Markötter ensured that Lochner went on the 1937 tour to New Zealand.\n\nCraven played his first test match on 5 December 1931 as scrum half at the age of 21 against at St Helens, Swansea. His flyhalf was the captain, Bennie Osler. One of the other debutants that day was flanker André McDonald, who would later develop into the first specialist No. 8. Craven and McDonald became fast friends. His performance on a water-logged field led \"Die Burger\" to exult \"Boy plays like a giant\".\n\nIn his third test, against Scotland at Murrayfield on 16 January 1932, Craven scored the winning try. The opportunity came because Craven implemented advice that he had received at Stellenbosch from coach Markötter. Markötter had said that on a muddy field a scrumhalf should either play with his forwards or kick, Craven recalled later. His advice enabled Craven to choose between captain Osler, who wanted the ball to be passed to him, and leader of the forwards Boy Louw, who demanded that the ball stay with the forwards. During the match he was knocked unconscious, sustained damage to his vocal chords, and lost a tooth.\n\nCraven's last test match was on 10 September 1938 as captain (also as scrum half) at the age of 27 against the British Lions at Newlands, Cape Town. During the 1930s he was one of the world's leading scrumhalves, but the start of the Second World War in 1939 ended his career prematurely.\n\nAfter his rugby-playing career ended, he was a national selector from 1938 until he was appointed coach in 1949. He started his coaching career with a bang, winning 10 matches in a row, including a 4–0 whitewash of New Zealand in their 1949 tour to South Africa. Under his guidance the Springboks were undefeated from 1949 to 1952, and won 17 of 23 tests (74% success rate) – an achievement that makes Craven one of South Africa's greatest coaches. He also coached Stellenbosch University from 1949 until 1956.\n\nCraven became the president of the South African Rugby Board (SARB) in 1956. He was also a member of the International Rugby Board from 1957 and served as its chairman on several occasions.\n\nThe last part of Craven's chairmanship of the SARB occurred during the country's most tumultuous years. Rugby had become the national sport of white South Africans and a symbol of Afrikaner power. In the 1970s and 1980s, the outlawed African National Congress allied with overseas anti-apartheid movements to successfully isolate South Africa from sporting and cultural contact with the rest of the world. Of all the sanctions aimed at South Africa, none irked the Afrikaner population more than the ban on rugby internationals.\n\nCraven managed to maintain links with other rugby playing nations during the years of South Africa's sporting isolation through his position with the IRB. He feared that isolation would negatively affect the standard of Springbok rugby. Consequently, he was not above \"some murky business\", such as the New Zealand Cavaliers tour in 1986, which Craven denied would happen. By the time South Africa returned to international competition in 1992, there had been no outgoing tours since 1981, and no incoming tours since 1984.\n\nIn 1988 Craven met leaders of the African National Congress (ANC) in Harare, Zimbabwe in a bold bid to return to global competition. An unprecedented deal emerged to form a single rugby association that would field integrated teams for participation in foreign tournaments. Many right-wing white South Africans attacked Craven as a traitor for meeting with the ANC, and then-president P.W. Botha denounced the move. Although the deal did not lead to the immediate end of the sporting isolation, it paved the way for the formation of the unified body, the South African Rugby Football Union (SARFU) in 1992. Craven was SARFU's first chairman until he died in 1993, having served for an unbroken 37 years at the head of South African rugby.\n\nCraven married twice. He wed Beyera Johanna (née Hayward, d. 2007) on 2 July 1938. She was from the Eastern Cape, a teacher, and daughter of the member of parliament for Steytlerville, George Hayward. Danie and Beyera had four children: Joan, George Hayward, Daniel, and James Roos Craven. One of his grandsons is the professional Namibian road cyclist Dan Craven, winner of the 2008 African Road Race Championships in Casablanca, Morocco. Danie and Beyera divorced in 1972.\n\nOn 30 May 1975 Craven married Martha Jacoba (Merlė) Vermeulen, the widow of Cape Town detective Dirk Vermeulen. Merlė worked in the fashion industry as a buyer for a chain of stores, and so had to attend fashion parades. After one such a parade in Pretoria, she twisted her ankle badly at her hotel. A bystander introduced her to Craven as \"a doctor\" who \"knew a lot about ankle injuries\". After Craven treated her foot, he telephoned and arranged to meet her again, and their relationship developed.\n\nCraven had a dog named \"Bliksem\" which accompanied him everywhere, even to rugby practices. A journalist recalled how \"when Doc and Bliksem were on the touchline at training, no one within sight would dare shirk\".\n\nThere were \"many contradictions and convolutions in Craven's life\", wrote Paul Dobson, which made him both admired and despised:\n\nDanie Craven was accepted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame in 1997, the first of 9 South Africans to date. In 2007 he became the third inductee into the IRB Hall of Fame, only preceded by Rugby School and William Webb Ellis, the alleged instigator of the game that would develop into rugby union.\n\nThe South African Craven Week schools rugby competition is named after him, as well as the Danie Craven Stadium and Danie Craven Rugby Museum in Stellenbosch. To commemorate him, Stellenbosch University commissioned sculptor Pierre Volschenk to execute a bronze sculpture of Craven and his faithful dog. The statue stands within the grounds of the Coertzenburg sports complex in Stellenbosch.\n\nIn 1981 Craven received the State President's Award for Exceptional Service, as well as the honorary citizenship of the city of Stellenbosch. He was made an honorary life president of the French Rugby Federation in 1992.\n\nCraven is often remembered for his quirky and controversial statements. For example, he said \"When Maties and Western Province rugby are strong, then Springbok rugby is strong.\"\n\nInitially he was unsure that all South Africans could play together, arguing in 1968 that the different race groups were \"separate nations...[who] won't ever play in the same side. But maybe...one day, we would have such a team\". Craven denied that he had ever said that people of colour would be Springboks \"over my dead body\". His supporters could point to his liking for coloured rugby enthusiasts, and the efforts that he made over the last few years of his life to run multiracial rugby workshops in rural South Africa as signs that he had changed his views.\n\nApart from his academic dissertations which were referred to above, Craven wrote numerous books as solo and co-author on rugby, including his autobiography (1949), rugby terms for translators (1972), and how to organize a tennis club (1951). According to \"The Independent\" of London \"his coaching manual \"Rugby Handbook\" (1970) is a standard\".\n\nThe titles listed below do not comprise an exhaustive list.\n\n~. 1985 & 1986. \"Ons rugby op die platteland\". Parts 1 & 2. Nuweland: SA Rugbyraad.\n\n~. 1980. \"Die groot rugbygesin van die Maties\". Kaapstad: Galvin & Sales.\n\n~, and Tetsunosuke Ōnishi. 1979. Senshu to kōchi no tameno gendai ragubī no gijutsu to senpō.\n\n~.1976. \"Rugby vir almal\". Kaapstad: Tafelberg-uitgewers.\n\n~.1975. \"Rugby handbook\". Wellington, N.Z.: A.H. & A.W. Reed.\n\n~.1974. \"Patroon vir rugby: 'n praktiese handleiding oor grondbeginsels, vaardighede, spelsette en oefenmetodes\". Kaapstad: Tafelberg.\n\n~.1973. \"Spel as ondersteunende terapie in die behandeling van groep kroniese gehospitaliseerde psigiatriese pasiënte\". S.l: s.n..\n\n~, Chris Cillié, J. H. Jordaan, and H. J. Bothma. 1972. \"Rugbyterme: Eng.-Afr. 1,827 terme\". Johannesburg: Federasie van Afrikaanse Kultuurvereniginge.\n\n~.1970. \"Rugby handboek.\" Kaapstad: Tafelberg.\n\n~.[1960] 1970. \"Die verhaal van rugby.\" Johannesburg: Afrikaanse Pers.\n\n~.1965. \"The seven pillars of rugby.\" Johannesburg: Swan Press.\n\n~.1964. \"Springbok annale Springbok annals : internasionale toere na en van Suid-Afrika, 1891–1964.\" Johannesburg: Mimosa.\n\n~.1961. \"Handleiding van rugby vir skole en klubs.\" Johannesburg: A.P.B.\n\n~.1961. \"Springbok annals: international tours to and from South Africa, 1891–1958.\" Johannesburg: Mimosa.\n\n~.1960. \"Enjoyment in the playing and training of rugby: Lekker rugby speel en oefen\". [S.l.]: South African Rugby Board.\n\n~.1953. \"Danie Craven on rugby.\" Wellington [N.Z.]: Reed.\n\n~.1951. \"Tennis vir die organiseerder\". Stellenbosch: UUB.\n\n~.1954. \"Springbok story, 1949–1953\". Cape Town: R. Beerman.\n\n~.1949. \"Ek speel vir Suid-Afrika.\" Kaapstad: Nasionale Pers.\n\n"}
{"id": "30723426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30723426", "title": "Diego Michiels", "text": "Diego Michiels\n\nDiego Muhammad bin Robbie Michiels or Diego Michiels (born August 8, 1990 in Deventer, Netherlands) is an Indonesian professional footballer who currently plays for Borneo F.C. as a defender in the Liga 1. Diego is of Dutch-Indonesian roots. His father, Robbie Michiels, is from Jakarta. While his mother, Annet Kloppenburg, is a Dutch citizen.\n\nIn 2011, Diego and Joey Suk were invited by the Indonesian Football Association to play for the Indonesia national under-23 football team in Jakarta. According to the newspaper report, he was interested in joining the Indonesian national team, even though he would have to give up his Dutch passport. Along with Joey and Ruben Wuarbanaran, will be able to play for the Indonesia. He made his debut for Indonesia in the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification against Bahrain on February 29, 2012.\n\n\nOn November 9, 2012, Diego allegedly violated two criminal code articles on assault in a Jakarta nightclub and faced at least three months and twenty days in jail. On March 7, 2013, he was released from jail.\n\nDiego converted to Islam in 2013 and took the Islamic name Diego Muhammad bin Robbie Michiels.\n"}
{"id": "38778358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38778358", "title": "Dor Bahadur Bista", "text": "Dor Bahadur Bista\n\nDor Bahadur Bista (Nepali: डोर बहादुर बिस्ट) (born ca. 1924-1926) is a Nepalese anthropologist, social scientist and activist. Bista is considered the father of Nepalese anthropology, and has published such popular books as \"\" and \"People of Nepal\". Bista mysteriously disappeared in 1995.\n\nSources vary regarding Bista's date of birth. Some say he was born around 1924, others in 1926. He graduated from Patan High School, after which he attended Tri Chandra College. He completed his Certificate in Indian Ethnography in London.\n\nWhile working as a government headmaster in a girls' high school in Patan, Bista became a research assistant to Professor Christoph Furer-Haimendorf of London University who was conducting field research in the area of Solukhumbu. He later claimed that it was this experience that ignited his interest in Anthropology.\n\nIn 1972 he was sent to Lhasa in Tibet as Nepal's Counsel General.\n\nHe established an organization called Karnali Institute in Jumla.\n\nIn January 1995, Bista mysteriously disappeared from Jumla District, being last seen boarding a bus to Chisapani or Dhangarhi. His wife, Narayani, with whom he had a daughter and three sons, died soon after.\n\nThe Association for Nepal and Himalayan Studies, which took over from the Nepal Studies Association of which Bista had been Honorary President, awards a prize named after him on an annual basis.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55896771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55896771", "title": "Elaine Gumbs-Vlaun", "text": "Elaine Gumbs-Vlaun\n\nElaine Gumbs-Vlaun is a St. Maartener who was the first social worker on the island, and founded the Department of Social Services. She was also the first female parliamentarian, having served under the Netherlands Antilles.\n\nElaine Gumbs-Vlaun founded the Sint Maarten department of Social Services, while acting as the island's original social worker. She was elected to the island council in 1983, and at the time was promoted as being the first woman to achieve that role, although Cornelia Jones predated her within the Windward Islands. Gumbs-Vlaun also served as part of the Cabinet of the Netherlands Antilles. This made her the first Sint Maarten woman to be elected to a parliament.\n\nGumbs-Vlaun was one of the founding members of the Mental Health Foundation in Sint Maarten in 2000, as part of a government initiative. In 2011, she became a member of the Social Economic Council (SER) and was reappointed in May 2014. Gumbs-Vlaun retired in 2015 upon reaching the age of 70. The chair of the SER, Oldine Bryson-Pantophlet, praised the work of Gumbs-Vlaun, saying that she kept her composure despite the sometimes heated discussions that would be held at the council.\n"}
{"id": "58539988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58539988", "title": "Family tree of the Bruneian monarchs", "text": "Family tree of the Bruneian monarchs\n\nThe following is a family tree of Malay monarchs of Brunei.\n"}
{"id": "47588132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47588132", "title": "Fiorella Mattheis", "text": "Fiorella Mattheis\n\nFiorella Gelli Mattheis (born February 10, 1988) is a Brazilian actress, model and television presenter.\n\nFiorella was born in Petrópolis, Rio de Janeiro. She is of Italian and German ancestry, both her paternal and maternal family name are from Northern Italy. She is the daughter of Andreas Mattheis, a race car driver, and Sandra Gelli Mattheis. On July 20, 2013, she married Flávio Canto; they divorced in September 2014.\n\nMattheis began her modeling career at the age of fourteen, after being a finalist of a competition held by the agency Elite Model Management. Soon after she moved to São Paulo, and it was from there that her career as a model took off. From fifteen to seventeen, she lived in Japan, Hong Kong and some European countries. Her acting career started when she played Vivian in Malhação.\n\nMattheis does not consume alcoholic beverages. While she stopped eating red meat and chicken for ideological reasons two years ago, she otherwise avoids stringent dietary restrictions. Instead, she relies on an intense exercise regimen that she began as a teenager: \"I run five to seven kilometers three to four times a week. Sometimes on the treadmill, sometimes outdoors.\" Mattheis has two personal trainers. Mattheis attributes her successful career to achieving what could not be done with beauty alone through \"hard work and dedication\".\n\nIn early June 2015, Mattheis was honored as the godmother of the non-governmental organization Ampara Animal in Rio de Janeiro for her activism in helping needy cats and dogs. Later that month, Mattheis had her hair treated by burning with a lit candle. This technique increases the strength and body with which hair grows, and should only be employed by qualified professionals. In July 2015, she posed in a bikini with fellow Vai Que Cola third season actress Samantha Schmutz.\n\nIn August 2015, Mattheis posed in an advertisement for the clothing brand PG with actor and designer Paulo Gustavo. Gustavo described Mattheis as \"the most beautiful woman I've ever seen.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1219978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219978", "title": "George Fosbery", "text": "George Fosbery\n\nLieutenant Colonel George Vincent Fosbery VC (11 April 1832 – 8 May 1907) was an English recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces. He was also a designer and inventor of firearms.\n\nAn Old Etonian, Fosbery was 31 years old, and a lieutenant in the 4th Bengal European Regiment, British Indian Army during the Umbeyla Campaign during which he was awarded the Victoria Cross. He retired from the service in 1877 having achieved the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nOn 30 October 1863 during the Umbeyla Campaign, North-West India, Lieutenant Fosbery led a party of his regiment to recapture the Crag Picquet, after its garrison had been driven in by the enemy and 60 of them killed. The approach to the Crag was very narrow but the lieutenant led his party with great coolness, and was the first man to gain the top of the Crag from his side of the attack. Subsequently, when the commanding officer was wounded, Lieutenant Fosbery assembled a party and pursued the routed enemy, inflicting on them further losses.\nIn 1895 he patented a design for a self-cocking revolver, which was taken up by the Webley & Scott Revolver & Arms Company. The Webley-Fosbery Automatic Revolver was produced as a six-shot .455 caliber and an eight-shot .38 caliber. \n\nSometime in the late 19th century he invented the Paradox gun. A gun made by Holland & Holland, so named because only the front two inches of the barrel were rifled; intended to be used as both rifle and shotgun, capable of firing both shot and conical bullets with accuracy.\n\nIn 1997, Fosbery's Victoria Cross was sold at an Alberta auction for $45,000. His medals are now on display in the Lord Ashcroft Gallery in the Imperial War Museum in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1601046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601046", "title": "George Klein (inventor)", "text": "George Klein (inventor)\n\nKlein worked for forty years as a mechanical engineer at the National Research Council of Canada laboratories in Ottawa (1929–1969).\n\nIn 1968, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 1995, he was inducted to the Canadian Science and Engineering Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50151795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50151795", "title": "Guillermo Carlos Cazenave", "text": "Guillermo Carlos Cazenave\n\nGuillermo Carlos Cazenave (born September 18, 1955 in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine musician who has been living in Europe for more than three decades. He is also known as Guill Cazenave. He is also an author and journalist, specialized in many different musical styles.\n\nGuill started making music from a very young age; when he was 7, his grandmother from the Isle of Skye gave him a bagpipe.\n\nIn 1963, his older siblings travelled to New York. A while later they returned to Argentina with the first albums by the Beatles, and Guillermo, after seeing the band The Dave Clark Five on television, started playing the drums in 1965, later to study with the drummer and percussionist Sam Lerman.\n\nIn 1969, Guillermo started his first pop band with two classmates from the Colegio Cardenal Newman in Buenos Aires, making his debut with a performance at a party, in September of the same year.\n\nAt the same time, he continued his drumming studies with the recognised master Alberto Alcalá, percussionist of the Orchestra of the Teatro Colón, to continue experimenting with other different styles under the teachings of Droopy Gianello, drummer of Arco Iris, a folk-rock band led by Gustavo Santaolalla.\n\nCazenave recorded his first songs using his brother's Toshiba 2 track tape recorder. It was with it that he recorded several of his demos, using guitar, flute and his voice, in a Celtic-folk style, probably influenced by his beginnings playing the bagpipes.\n\nIn 1973, Guillermo Cazenave graduated from high school and travelled to the US where he continued composing and recording songs both in Spanish and English, thanks to his bilingual studies at the Newman College.\n\nIn 1974, back in Buenos Aires, he made his first professional recording at the ION Recording Studios, with the pianist Antonio Marzochi and the guitarist Kelo Palacios, for a play that was performed for the first time at the San Martín Theatre. Not long after that, Guill returned to New York, and stayed there until May 1977, when he emigrated to Europe, staying for long periods of time between London and Sitges, where he established contact and made friends with musicians such as Anthony Phillips and Miguel Abuelo.\n\nIn Sitges in 1983, Guill created the first Spanish new age music record label, and started selling his music on magazines like Integral, Karma 7 and Popular 1.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1999, Guillermo Cazenave produced more than 50 albums and sold around 300,000 copies of his work, mainly in the alternative market. It was very common to find him at congresses, symposiums and festivals. He often appeared on the Spanish media, and travelled and performed in countries such as France, England, US or Mexico.\n\nIn the late 90s, he relocated to the Cathar Country in the South of France, near Montségur, and began a period of temporary retirement with just the occasional appearance, and few CDs released. In 2007, after an impasse of several years, he reappeared with his album Ser, and with the novel \"La Noche del Grial\" (\"The Night of the Grail\"), with prologues by Jean-Luc Robin and Javier Sierra, in which he narrates his experiences in that area.\n\nIn 2008, Cazenave started performing live again, giving talks at congresses, recording new albums, writing for magazines like Más Allá de la Ciencia (Beyond Science), where he managed the music section, or in Universo Holístico (Holistic Universe), and appearing on radio programs like Espacio en Blanco, by his friend Miguel Blanco Medrano, in the Spanish national radio (Radio Nacional de España), in a section called From the Cathar Country.\n\nCazenave has recorded with renowned musicians in different styles and tendencies, such as the British oboist Ronald Lloyd; the ex member of Genesis and guitarist Anthony Phillips, the pop musician Jeremy Morris, the rock pioneer in Argentina Litto Nebbia, and many other skilled artists and friends.\n\nThe diversity of his work, which includes new age, pop-rock, Celtic fusion and even classical music, makes Guill's career and style difficult to classify. His production currently goes beyond one thousand registered pieces, and more than 80 albums in the market, as well as several books and innumerable video productions.\n\nCazenave's music has already travelled through space during the last trip of the NASA Shuttle Endeavour, on May 16, 2011. His \"Fly High\" was one of the pieces chosen by the astronauts and technicians.\n\nDuring the last trip of the Endeavour Shuttle, with the mission of installing some equipment to receive radiation from outer space and investigate the origins of the universe; the six astronauts in the crew of the spaceship, along with numerous NASA technicians, selected 50 musical compositions to take and listen to during the trip.\n\nThe trip itself had a very special meaning, not only because it was the final flight of the emblematic shuttle, and because of the characteristics of the mission, but also because of the general idea of leaving the footprint of human expression in space through one of its most sublime arts: music.\n\nAmong greatest hits and classics of all times, like Wonderful World by Louis Armstrong, Imagine by John Lennon and unforgettable songs by U2, Rolling Stones and other English-speaking countries, they selected \"Fly High\" (Vuela Alto) by the musician Guillermo Cazenave, composed in 1996 for his album \"Here\" (Aquí).\n\nCazenave also receive a diploma from the NASA, along with a few congratulating lines by John Shannon, Program Manager of the Space Shuttle, saying: “You are now, with your music, part of the rich history of our program since the times of the Apollo.”\n\nAs a writer, these are some of his most recent books: La Noche del Grial (The Night of the Grail, currently in the process of being translated into English), published by Mandala Ediciones (Madrid), Música para una Nueva Era (Music for a New Age) by Kier (Buenos Aires), or El Sonido del Universo (The Sound of the Universe), with its two first editions being published by Indigo in Barcelona.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9298644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9298644", "title": "Guillermo Rodriguez (comedian)", "text": "Guillermo Rodriguez (comedian)\n\nGuillermo Rodriguez (born January 27, 1971), more commonly known as Guillermo, is a Mexican-American talk show personality who rose to fame while working as a parking lot security guard at the Hollywood Boulevard studios for American late night talk show \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\". He continues in character and title as \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\"s security guard, but actually performs nightly as Jimmy Kimmel's sidekick.\n\nRodriguez was born in Zacatecas, Mexico. \n\nGuillermo quickly became a permanent, nightly cast-member on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" after performing in comedy bits written for the show. His broken English coupled with his affable likability and Teddy Bear-like quality have earned him a high-profile supporting role as a personality on the show. Guillermo took over main red-carpet interviewing duties in 2011 from the late \"Uncle Frank\" Potenza, whom he was often paired with for the show's comedic skits.\n\nGuillermo's signature segment is \"Guillermo's Hollywood Roundup\", in which Guillermo, dressed in a cowboy outfit and pretending to twirl a special effect operated lasso, makes a mockery of entertainment news shows featured widely on television. From outside the theater and standing next to his West Coast Customs-made \"Guillermobile\", he answers Kimmel's questions about the latest tabloid stories by taking a rack of magazines that the \"Guillermobile\" has been fitted with, and attempts to interpret the stories in an unintentionally amusing and mis-translated way.\n\nAnother popular and recurring bit is announcing that Guillermo has a role in a current or recent major motion picture release and showing a clip of an at-first familiar trailer for said movie with Guillermo humorously edited in, his appearance often made-up to resemble a character in the movie. One popular sketch has Guillermo impersonating Matt Damon's character of Jason Bourne in \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" by responding when asked to be named, \"I am Yay-son... Bourne Identity.\" A physical fight between Guillermo and Damon's actual character ensues. Guillermo also starred alongside Kimmel in Boo!, a spoof of \"Saw\".\n\nGuillermo often sets out to interview famous celebrities. Some of his subjects do not know who he is, which the show uses for humorous interplay. Guillermo regularly appears at the NBA Finals to interview players. At the 2015 Finals, he called out to LeBron James as James was practicing. James ignored Guillermo, who had a meter counting how many times the name \"LeBron\" would be called before James acknowledged Guillermo's presence.\n\nGuillermo appeared as a special guest on the last episode of Univision telenovela \"Eva Luna\" on April 11, 2011. In 2017, he had a brief uncredited role in Marvel's \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\" as a cop, which he revealed in a video on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" in April 2017.\n"}
{"id": "10511504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10511504", "title": "Harigopal Bal", "text": "Harigopal Bal\n\nHarigopal Bal or Baul ()popularly called as Tegra (died 22 April 1930) was a Bengali revolutionary who took part in revolutionary activities against British rule in India.\n\nBal was born in the village Kanungopara in Chittagong, Bengal (now in Bangladesh). His father was Pran Krishna Bal. Harigopal Bal joined the revolutionaries and took part in the Chittagong Armoury Raid on 18 April 1930 with his elder brother Lokenath Bal. After the abortive raid, Bal escaped. Four days later, he was injured after being shot while fighting against British troops on Jalalabad Hill, near Chittagong. He died on 22 April 1930.\n\nA film \"Chittagong\" released in October 2012, directed by Dr. Bedabrata Pain, shows role of Harigopal Bal (called by his nickname \"Tegra\" in the movie) in the Chittagong Armoury raid. Manoj Bajpai was the lead actor and played the role of Surya Sen.\n\nActor Nitin Prabhat played the Harigopal Bal with nickname 'Tegra' in the bollywood movie Khelein Hum Jee Jaan Sey released in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2727297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2727297", "title": "Henry Lascelles, 6th Earl of Harewood", "text": "Henry Lascelles, 6th Earl of Harewood\n\nHenry George Charles Lascelles, 6th Earl of Harewood (9 September 1882 – 24 May 1947), styled \"The Honourable\" Henry Lascelles before 1892 and Viscount Lascelles between 1892 and 1929, was a British soldier, peer and a Yorkshire landowner. He was the husband of Mary, Princess Royal, and through her the son-in-law of King George V and Queen Mary and a brother-in-law to Edward VIII and George VI.\n\nLascelles was the son of Henry Lascelles, 5th Earl of Harewood and Lady Florence Bridgeman, daughter of Orlando Bridgeman, 3rd Earl of Bradford. He was born at the London home of his maternal grandfather, 43 Belgrave Square.\n\nLord Harewood married Princess Mary, only daughter of King George V of the United Kingdom and Queen Mary, at Westminster Abbey, on 28 February 1922. His best man was Sir Victor Mackenzie, 3rd Baronet. It was later reported that Lascelles proposed to her after a wager at his club.\n\nAfter their marriage, Lord and Lady Harewood split their time between their homes; Chesterfield House (destroyed after the Second World War) in London, Goldsborough Hall, at Harwood Estate and Harewood House itself, in Yorkshire, which became their family home in 1929. They had two children:\n\nHer elder son, the Earl of Harewood, wrote about his parents' marriage in his memoirs \"The Tongs and the Bones\" and says that \"they got on well together and had a lot of friends and interests in common\".\n\nAfter education at Eton College, Lascelles attended the Royal Military College, Sandhurst before being commissioned as a Second Lieutenant into the Grenadier Guards on 12 February 1902, serving until 1905. He was an honorary attache at the British Embassy in Paris from 1905 until 1907, then served as aide-de-camp to the Governor General of Canada, Earl Grey, until 1911.\n\nIn 1913 he joined the Territorial Army as Second Lieutenant in the Yorkshire Hussars Yeomanry. He was promoted Lieutenant on the Reserve of Officers in 1914. He continued with the yeomanry after the outbreak of the First World War until he rejoined the Grenadier Guards for service on the Western Front in April 1915. Even so he continued to be promoted within the regiment to Captain in 1917. Postwar he was promoted Major in 1920 and retired in 1924.\n\nMeanwhile, at the front, he was wounded in the head at the Second Battle of Givenchy but recovered to fight in the Battle of Loos in 1915, and was wounded a further two times as well as gassed. He was promoted Captain and later Major in command of a battalion (the 3rd) in 1915, and Lieutenant-Colonel in 1918. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order (D.S.O.) and a bar both in 1918, as well as the French Croix de Guerre.\n\nHe continued his interest in the Territorial movement after the war, as Honorary Colonel of the 1st Battalion The London Regiment from 1923, the 5th Battalion West Yorkshire Regiment from 1937, and as President of the West Yorkshire Territorial Forces Association from 1928. He was also appointed in 1937 Honorary Air Commodore of the 609 (West Riding) Bomber Squadron of the Auxiliary Air Force.\n\nAfter the war, Lascelles remained interested in local Yorkshire issues and events, often contributing to the Leeds Board of Management. He was president of the Yorkshire Rural Community Council. He was Lord Lieutenant of the West Riding of Yorkshire from 1927 until his death.\n\nHe was President of the Royal Agricultural Society of England in 1929 when that year's Royal Show was held at Harrogate.\n\nInterested in equestrian sports, he served as Master of the Bramham Moor Hounds from 1921, was a steward of the Jockey Club, and co-editor of \"Flat Racing\" (1940) for the London Library.\n\nLord Harewood, a Freemason, served as Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England from 1942 to 1947.\n\nAs Viscount Lascelles, he attempted to enter the House of Commons when he stood at a by-election in 1913 as Unionist candidate for Keighley, held when its incumbent Liberal Member of Parliament, Sir Stanley Buckmaster was appointed Solicitor General. In the three-cornered fight that also included a Labour candidate, he came second to Buckmaster by 878 votes.\n\nHe did not seek election again and his defeat led to a later distaste for politics. He declared in later life \"every war in which Britain had been involved had been due to the inefficiency of politicians, and they began what soldiers had to end\".\n\nOn succeeding to his father's Earldom he became a member of the House of Lords.\n\nLord Harewood died of a heart attack on 24 May 1947 at the age of 64 at his home, Harewood House. Lady Harewood, the Princess Royal, survived him by almost eighteen years and died in 1965.\n\nIt is widely understood that Virginia Woolf based the character of Archduke Henry on him in her novel , a tribute to her lover Vita Sackville-West. Henry Lascelles was one of West's suitors.\n\n\nBritish:\n\nForeign:\n\n"}
{"id": "5830797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5830797", "title": "Iris Bannochie", "text": "Iris Bannochie\n\nIris Bannochie (1914 – September 1988) was a Barbadian horticulturalist who was the leading expert on horticulture on the island of Barbados.\n\nBannochie was born in Grenada in 1914 and, apart from her early childhood, lived all her life in Barbados. She married John Mackie Bannochie on 13 April 1964. She was a founding member of the Barbados National Trust.\nWith her second husband, John, she created and owned Andromeda Gardens, a scenic park with flowering plants and tropical trees in the village of Bathsheba, Saint Joseph in Barbados. Bannochie founded the garden around 1954 on of land that had been in her family since 1740. On Bannochie's death, Andromeda Gardens was left to the Barbados National Trust.\n\nIn 1977, she was awarded the Veitch Memorial Medal by the Royal Horticultural Society for her contribution to tropical horticulture. Bannochie suffered a stroke in the summer of 1988 and died shortly afterwards. She was 73 years old.\n\nA heliconia cultivar is named after Bannochie - \"Heliconia stricta\" 'Iris Bannochie'.\n\n"}
{"id": "4084582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4084582", "title": "Ivan Damgård", "text": "Ivan Damgård\n\nIvan Bjerre Damgård (born 1956) is a Danish cryptographer and currently a professor at the Department of Computer Science, Aarhus University, Denmark.\n\nIn 1983, he obtained a master's degree in mathematics (with minors in music and computer science) at Aarhus University. He began his PhD studies in 1985 at the same university, and was for a period a guest researcher at CWI in Amsterdam in 1987. He earned his PhD degree in May, 1988, with the thesis \"Ubetinget beskyttelse i kryptografiske protokoller\" (Unconditional protection in cryptographic protocols) and has been employed at Aarhus University ever since. Damgård was made full professor in 2005.\n\nHe is known among other things for the Merkle–Damgård construction used in most modern cryptographic hash functions such as SHA-1 and MD5. He discovered the structure independently of Ralph Merkle and published it in 1989.\n\nIvan Damgård is also one of the founders of the Cryptomathic company. In 2010, he was selected as IACR Fellow.\n\n"}
{"id": "52906940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52906940", "title": "Jacques Newashish", "text": "Jacques Newashish\n\nJacques Newashish (1958) is a Canadian film actor, filmmaker, painter, and sculptor. Newashish is a member of the Atikamekw nation and is from Wemotaci, Quebec. He was born in La Tuque, Quebec where he learned traditional values and ways of living. His father was a trapper and hunter and the language and culture of the Atikamekw people. Newashish incorporates elements of Atikamekw culture into his artistic practice and is concerned with the preservation of the Atikamekw language and culture in the community.\n\nAs a multidisciplinary artist, Newashish works across a variety of mediums, including sculpture, painting, film, and storytelling. His work includes installations which frequently use natural materials which reflect Atikamekw culture.\n\nNewashish garnered a Canadian Screen Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor at the 5th Canadian Screen Awards for his performance in \"Before the Streets (Avant les rues)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40852574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40852574", "title": "Jared Genser", "text": "Jared Genser\n\nJared Genser is an international human rights lawyer who serves as managing director of the law firm Perseus Strategies, LLC. He is founder of Freedom Now. Genser is a Senior Fellow at the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights, was an Associate of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard University from 2014-2016, a Visiting Fellow with the National Endowment for Democracy from 2006-2007, and earlier in his career was named by the \"National Law Journal\" as one of \"40 Under 40: Washington's Rising Stars.\" \n\nGenser previously served as international counsel to a number of prominent human rights activists and defenders, including Václav Havel, Aung San Suu Kyi, Desmond Tutu, and Elie Wiesel, and Liu Xiaobo and his wife Liu Xia. Among his current clients are imprisoned Venezuelan politician Leopoldo López, former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, and former Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed. In 2013, he received the American Bar Association's International Human Rights Award.\n\nGenser was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and grew up in suburban Maryland. Genser received a B.S. from Cornell University in 1995. He subsequently earned a Master in Public Policy degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, where he was an Alumni Public Service Fellow and a J.D. \"cum laude\" from the University of Michigan Law School. He was also a Raoul Wallenberg Scholar at Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nGenser began his career as a management consultant with McKinsey & Company. He later joined DLA Piper, where he was elected a partner. In 2011, he left DLA Piper to found Perseus Strategies, a human-rights law firm. Genser has served as an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, University of Michigan Law School, and University of Pennsylvania Law School. In June 2014 it was announced he would partner with the PR firm Levick in regard to \"the international and local media narrative\" surrounding the Nigerian government's efforts on the Chibok schoolgirls kidnapping.\n\nGenser is the author of \"The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention: Commentary and Guide to Practice\". He was also a co-editor with Canadian Member of Parliament Irwin Cotler for \"The Responsibility to Protect: The Promise of Stopping Mass Atrocities in Our Time\" and with former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Costa Rica Bruno Stagno Ugarte for \"The UN Security Council in the Age of Human Rights\".\n\nGenser has published more than 180 op-eds on human-rights topics in major newspapers around the world including \"The Baltimore Sun\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"The Chosun Ilbo\" (Seoul), \"Far Eastern Economic Review\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Independent\" (UK), \"International Herald Tribune\", \"The Jakarta Post\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"South China Morning Post\", \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"The Nation\" (Thailand), \"The Star\" (South Africa), \"The Times\" (UK), \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times,\" and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nGenser is a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. He was elected in 2008 as a Fellow to the British American Project. In 2009 he was elected as a Delegate to the Asia Society’s Asia 21 Young Leaders Summit and also as a U.S.-Japan Young Leadership Fellow. Genser was a Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum from 2008-2013 and a Member of the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council for Human Rights (2010-2011). In 2011, he was selected among the \"Young Leaders\" of the French-American Foundation. He is a recipient of the Charles Bronfman Prize and Liberty in North Korea's Freedom Fighter Award. In addition to being qualified to practice law in Maryland and the District of Columbia, he is also a Solicitor of England & Wales.\n"}
{"id": "57519541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57519541", "title": "Kaljo Ellik", "text": "Kaljo Ellik\n\nKaljo Ellik (9 May 1948, Siiksaare – 27 March 2017) was an Estonian politician who was a voter for the Estonian restoration of Independence.\n\nEllik graduated in 1963 from Kingisepp 1st Secondary School, in 1968 from Räpina Horticultural Engineering School, and in 1975 from the Estonian University of Life Sciences. In addition, he has studied social psychology at the Tartu Fine Arts Courses and the University of Tartu.\n\nHe served as senior agronomist inspectorate in the Kingsepp District Seed Inspectorate from 1969 to 1979 and from 1978 to 1990 as vice chairman of the Executive Committee of the Council of People's Deputies of Kingissepp. In 1990, he was Deputy Mayor of Kuressaare.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1992, he was a member of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia, and on 20 August 1991 he voted in favor of the restoration of Estonia's independence. He was also an ambassador to the Congress of Estonia. On 18 September 1991, he became a member of the Estonian Centre Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "8158852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8158852", "title": "Kanthaka", "text": "Kanthaka\n\nKanthaka (in Pali and Sanskrit) (6th century BC, in Kapilvastu and Tilaurakot, Nepal) was a favourite white horse of length eighteen cubits that was a royal servant of Prince Siddhartha, who later became Gautama Buddha. Siddhartha used Kanthaka in all major events described in Buddhist texts prior to his renunciation of the world. Following the departure of Siddhartha, Kanthaka died of a broken heart.\n\nIn the court of King Suddhodarna, Kanthaka was the most skillful and able horse, and the favourite of Crown Prince Siddhartha, whenever Siddhartha needed to go outside the palace. Siddhartha had been lavished and pampered in a series of purpose-built palaces by Suddhodarna in order to shield him from thoughts of pain and suffering. This was done due to a prophecy by the ascetic Asita, who predicted that Siddhartha would renounce the throne to become a spiritual leader were he to contemplate human suffering. Kanthaka is first described in relation to the events leading up to the marriage of Siddhartha to Yasodhara, another Sakyan princess. By the customs of the kshatriya Sakyan clan, a prince must prove his worthiness in warrior related skills such as horse-riding, mounted archery and swordplay by defeating other royals in such contests. Mounted on Kanthaka, Siddhartha defeated his cousin Devadatta in archery, another cousin Anuruddha in a horse-riding competition and then half-brother Nanda in swordplay.\n\nAfter Siddhartha's marriage, Kanthaka was the horse pulling the chariot when Channa, the head royal servant accompanied Siddhartha around Kapilavastu to see the Four sights whilst meeting his subjects, which prompted his decision to renounce the world. During these expeditions aboard Kanthaka, Channa explained to Siddhartha the sights of an elderly man, a sick person, a dead person whose funeral was being conducted and finally, an ascetic who had renounced worldly life for a spiritual one, as Siddhartha who had been secluded from such sights within the palace was taken aback.\n\nLater, Kanthaka was the horse used by Siddhartha to escape from the palace to become an ascetic, whilst the remainder of the palace guards were asleep. After initially protesting and refusing to accept that Siddhartha would leave him, Channa saddled Kanthaka, guiding him out of the town aboard the horse to a forest by the edge of the Anoma River. According to the texts, Kanthaka was able to jump across the river. Riding Kanthaka, Channa returned Siddhartha's accoutrements, weapons and hair to Suddhodarnha upon his return to the palace, after Siddhartha compelled him to return after Channa had refused to leave him.\n\nAccording to Buddhist texts, Kanthaka was reborn as a brahmin and went on to attend dharma talks by Gautama Buddha and achieve enlightenment. The death is variously described as occurring either at the banks of the Anoma or upon returning to Kapilavastu.\n\nThe description of Kanthaka is also widely observed in Buddhist art, such as carvings on stupas. The depiction of Siddhartha leaving Kapilavastu aboard Kanthaka found at the main stupa in Amaravathi is the oldest depiction currently existing. Such depictions are also displayed in museums in London and Calcutta.\n"}
{"id": "42126989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42126989", "title": "List of people from Central Italy", "text": "List of people from Central Italy\n\nThis is a list of notable central Italians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25081501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25081501", "title": "Lola Hendricks", "text": "Lola Hendricks\n\nLola Mae Haynes Hendricks (née Haynes) (born December 1932) was corresponding secretary for Fred Shuttlesworth's Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights from 1956 to 1963. She assisted Wyatt Walker in planning the early portions of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference's involvement in the 1963 Birmingham Campaign during the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nOn December 19th, 1932 Lola Mae Haynes, the first of two daughters, was born to Buford and Addie Hanes. Lola Mae Haynes was born in Birmingham, Alabama on 4th Avenue and 15th Street South on the south side of Birmingham. Her father was employed as a coal-truck driver from LaGrange, Georgia and her mother, from Chambers County, Alabama, worked as a domestic cook. Lola Mae Haynes went to school in Birmingham at Cameron Elementary School, graduated, and then went to Ullman High School for two years. In 1949, Haynes attended Parker High School for two years and graduated in January of '51. After graduating from Parker High School, she began working as an elevator operator at Hillman Hospital, now called University Hospital. Lola Mae Haynes saved her money from the hospital for a year, until she was able to enroll herself in beauty school in 1952 where she attended the Ruth Porter's School of Beauty Culture. \n\nIn February 1953, Lola Mae Haynes married Joseph Hendricks. Lola then went on to study for two years at the Booker T. Washington Business College. After graduating from Booker T. Washington Business College, Lola began employment in the insurance industry at Alexander & Company. The company, owned by John J. Drew and his wife Deanie, had employed Lola Mae Haynes Hendricks as a clerk-typist and an insurance writer. In 1963, Haynes began working for the Federal Government under the Social Security Administration, where she became one of the first African Americans to integrate amongst the whites into the workforce. Hendricks worked in files for about two years, and then was promoted to Clerk Typing and again, to Award Typing. \n\nThe Hendrickses were members of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). When the group was outlawed by the State of Alabama in 1956 she became one of the early members of the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, joining at a mass meeting at Nelson Smith's New Pilgrim Baptist Church where she was a member. The ACMHR, led by Shuttlesworth, organized local boycotts and demonstrations as well as coordinating legal challenges to Birmingham's segregation laws in the 1950s and 1960s. Hendricks and her husband were the named parties in ACMHR-backed lawsuits to force integration of Birmingham city parks and to desegregate the Birmingham Public Library. She also served as the organization's correspondence secretary, working from Shuttleworth's office at Bethel Baptist Church from 1956 until the culmination of the Birmingham Campaign. In December 1962 she traveled to New England as a field director for the Southern Conference Education Fund, raising awareness among Northerners about the realities of Southern segregation and soliciting donations of Christmas toys for movement members boycotting Birmingham's department stores.\n\nIn the Spring of 1963, Hendricks coordinated the practical office requirements and cultivated local contacts for the combined efforts of the ACMHR and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), which Shuttlesworth had co-founded and which was chaired by Martin Luther King, Jr.. She worked directly with the SCLC's Wyatt Walker during the campaign, helping organize support and logistics for marches and department store boycotts.\n\nIt was Hendricks who applied directly to Public Safety Commissioner Eugene \"Bull\" Connor for a parade permit for the first day of marches and was told \"You will not get a permit in Birmingham, Alabama to picket. I'll picket you over to the jail.\" At Walker's urging she did not actively demonstrate and risk jailing, protecting her behind-the-scenes importance to the movement. Hendricks' nine-year-old daughter, Audrey Faye Hendricks (1952–2009), however, was the only child in her class to participate in the May 2, 1963 \"Children's Crusade\" that brought national attention to Connor's brutal tactics against demonstrators. She spent five nights in jail as minders got word out to her parents that she was safe. She was the youngest known child to be arrested for that protest. The children's book \"The Youngest Marcher: The Story of Audrey Faye Hendricks, A Young Civil Rights Activist\" (2017) by Cynthia Levinson, is about that. That book also contains a recipe for Lola Hendricks’s \"Hot Rolls Baptized in Butter\". \n\nHendricks left her insurance company job in 1963 to join the newly integrated Birmingham office of the Social Security Administration. She was hired originally as a filer, but was promoted to unit clerk before moving to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission where she became a supervisor. She left in 1983 to care for her mother. In 1988 she rejoined the Social Security Administration where she worked until reaching retirement. She continued to volunteer at the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute and in the mid 1990s she assisted the Birmingham Historical Society in researching movement churches and landmarks for National Register of Historic Places status.\n\nShe has two sisters (one deceased), two daughters, Audrey Faye Hendricks (1952–2009) and Jan Hendricks Fuller, and one grandson, Joel A. Fuller. Audrey Faye Hendricks (1952–2009), at the age of nine, was the only child in her class to participate in the May 2, 1963 \"Children's Crusade\" that brought national attention to Eugene \"Bull\" Connor's brutal tactics against demonstrators. She spent five nights in jail as minders got word out to her parents that she was safe. She was the youngest known child to be arrested for that protest. The children's book \"The Youngest Marcher: The Story of Audrey Faye Hendricks, A Young Civil Rights Activist\" (2017) by Cynthia Levinson, is about that. That book also contains a recipe for Lola Hendricks’s \"Hot Rolls Baptized in Butter\". \n\n\"I never had any fear.\" -Mrs. Lola H. Hendricks; Birmingham Civil Rights Institute Oral History Project, January 19, 1995 \n\n"}
{"id": "23964483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23964483", "title": "Louis de Jager", "text": "Louis de Jager\n\nLouis de Jager (born 30 March 1987) is a professional golfer from South Africa playing on the Sunshine Tour.\n\nDe Jager was born in Duiwelskloof, Northern Transvaal. He won the South African Amateur Championship in 2007 in both the stroke play and match play format. In 2007, de Jager also won the Gauteng North Etonic Open and the Boland Open. He turned professional in 2008.\n\nDe Jager played his first full season on the Sunshine Tour in 2008. He played in 17 events and recorded five top-10 finishes. He won his first professional tournament in August 2009 at the Suncoast Classic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4302022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4302022", "title": "Luciana Gimenez", "text": "Luciana Gimenez\n\nLuciana Gimenez Morad (born November 3, 1969) is a Brazilian television host and former model. \n\nShe became famous after she became pregnant with Mick Jagger's child while he was married to super model Jerry Hall. DNA tests confirmed Lucas Maurice Morad-Jagger was Jagger's son.\n\nGimenez was born in São Paulo, Brazil. Her father João Morad, businessman and nightclub entrepreneur, threw a six-day party to celebrate her birth. Her half-brother, Marco Antônio Gimenez, and their mother, Vera Gimenez, are Brazilian actors. She is of Lebanese and Spanish heritage.\n\nShe speaks four languages fluently: her native Portuguese, English, French and Italian. \n\nLuciana started her modeling career at age 13, and has worked in many cities around the world, such as Paris, Hamburg, Milan and New York.\n\nLuciana went on to become a TV hostess on Brazil's RedeTV!, and her show is the primetime show \"Superpop\".\n\nShe has already been endorsed by brands such as: Chanel, Osklen, Marks & Spencer, Azzedine Alaïa.\n\nAfter research done by ABC, Luciana was invited to participate in the program \"The View\" on June 10, 2013. One of the main issues addressed by the program was the campaign against the prevention of communicable disease by prostitutes.\n\nHer son with musician Mick Jagger, Lucas Maurice Morad-Jagger was born on May 18, 1999.\n\nShe was married Marcelo de Carvalho, who owns RedeTV!, from August 19, 2006 to 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1184680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184680", "title": "Maleagant", "text": "Maleagant\n\nMaleagant (alternately \"Malagant\", \"Meliagant\", \"Meligaunt\", \"Meliagaunt\", \"Meliaganz\", \"Meliagrance, Mellyagraunce\", \"Mellegrans\", etc.) is a villain from Arthurian legend. In a number of versions of a popular episode, Maleagant abducts Queen Guinevere, necessitating her rescue by King Arthur and his knights. The earliest surviving version of this episode names the abductor Melwas. Maleagant debuts in Chrétien de Troyes' French romance \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\", where he is said to be the son of King Bagdemagus, ruler of the otherworldly land of Gorre. However, all surviving versions seem to be later adaptations of a stock narrative of significantly earlier provenance.\n\nThe earliest version of the popular abduction of Guinevere episode appears in the early 12th-century Latin \"Life of Gildas\" by Caradoc of Llancarfan. In that text Melwas, king of the \"Summer Country\" (\"regnante in aestiua regione\"; a direct translation of Welsh name for Somerset, \"\"), carries Guinevere off to his stronghold of Glastonbury. Arthur locates her after a year of searching and prepares to storm the castle, but Gildas negotiates her safe return. Melwas also appears in a fragmentary Welsh dialogue, indicating that this story was widely known in Wales. A monumental carving on the archivolt of Modena Cathedral in Italy contains a related scene, in which Arthur and his warriors besiege a castle where a character identified as \"Mardoc\" sits with \"Winlogee\", presumably Guinevere.\n\nRoger Sherman Loomis regarded the form Maleagant or \"Meleagans\" as directly derivative of the Brythonic Melwas. He listed a number of variants, including along with Mehaloas, Melians and Malvasius.\n\nMaleagant (spelled \"Meliagant\" or \"Meliaganz\") first appears under that name in \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\" by Chrétien de Troyes, where he brings Guinevere to his impenetrable castle. The queen is rescued by Lancelot and Gawain; this is the first major appearance of Lancelot in Arthurian legend. If he was ever more than an obscure villain, Maleagant's role seems to have diminished as Mordred became more popular; however, Maleagant appears in most accounts of Guinevere's kidnapping. He plays that part in the Lancelot-Grail cycle and Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\".\n\nIn the romance \"Sone de Nansai\", Sone visits an island said to have been Meleagan's. Meleagan's father was King Baudemagus and his grandfather Tadus. Meleagan's island is perfectly square and its walls are made of crystal. There is a palace at each corner and at the center, a fountain wells up through a gilded copper horn. The Sword Bridge connects the island to a causeway, a bowshot away, which leads to the mainland. In Meleagan's day, many men were beheaded there.\n\nMaleagant appears in modern retellings like Marion Zimmer Bradley's \"The Mists of Avalon\" and T. H. White's \"The Once and Future King\" (as Sir Meliagrance).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3382615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3382615", "title": "Malise IV, Earl of Strathearn", "text": "Malise IV, Earl of Strathearn\n\nMalise IV of Strathearn (Gaelic: \"Maol Íosa\"; died c. 1329) was a Scottish nobleman, the seventh known ruler of \nStrathearn. He was an ardent supporter of King Robert the Bruce, in contrast to his father, Malise, who sided with Edward I of England.\n\nHe is first recorded in January 1306, when he and his mother petitioned King Edward to release his father, who had been mistakenly imprisoned. In 1309 he is noted as having received gifts of money and wine from Edward; nevertheless, he joined King Robert's side, and fought with him at the siege of Perth Castle in 1312, while his father fought for the English defenders. On the fall of the castle, the elder Malise was captured by his son, who then took control of the earldom of Strathearn. \n\nLittle more is known of him, as his name does not often appear on record. He was one of the earls who signed the Declaration of Arbroath in 1320, and married at least twice. Though the identity of his first wife is not known, we know that by her he had a son and a daughter: Malise, who succeeded his father as eighth Earl, and Mary or Maria, who married John Murray of Drumsargard. His second wife, whom he married around 1323, was Jean or Joanna, daughter of Sir John Menteith of Ruskie. They had no issue. After the Earl's death around 1329, the Dowager Countess would go on to marry three more times. Her third husband, Maurice Murray, was granted the earldom of Strathearn after it was lost by the eighth Earl.\n\n"}
{"id": "11981133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11981133", "title": "Mandy Capristo", "text": "Mandy Capristo\n\nMandy Grace Capristo (born 21 March 1990), also known mononymously as Mandy, is a German singer, songwriter, dancer, and model.\n\nBorn in Mannheim and raised in Bürstadt, Capristo was first exposed to singing and dancing competitions in 2001, when she won \"Kiddy Contest\", a reality television singing competition for teens in Austria, with her song \"Ich wünsche mir einen Bankomat\". In the mid to late 2000s, Capristo rose to fame as a founding member of the girl band Monrose, the result of the fifth season of the German television talent show \"Popstars\". Until their disbandment in 2011, the trio released four studio albums and 11 singles.\n\nFollowing the breakup of Monrose, Capristo launched her solo career as a singer. In 2011, she collaborated with singer Peter Maffay on his \"Tabaluga\" musical track \"Die Zeit hält nur in Träumen an\". In between recording her first solo album \"Grace\" (2012), Capristo participated in the fifth season of \"Let's Dance\". Her first solo single, \"The Way I Like It\", was released in April 2012.\n\nMandy Grace Capristo was born on 21 March 1990 in Mannheim, the daughter of an Italian father, Vittorio Capristo, and a German mother, Carmen. She grew up in Bürstadt. Her older brother, Anthony, was born in 1986. Her parents separated when she was in her early teens. Capristo was four when she began gymnastics, dance, and piano lessons. Three years later, she enrolled in dancing. In 2001, Capristo's music teacher entered her for the \"Kiddy Contest\" in Austria. She won the competition with her song \"Ich wünsche mir einen Bankomat\", which subsequently appeared on the number-one compilation album \"Kiddy Contest, Vol. 7\" (2001). Capristo appeared in shows such as \"Tabaluga Tivi\" or \"1, 2 or 3\" and in 2002 she recorded the song \"Mosquito\" for another \"Kiddy Contest\" album.\n\nIn 2006, Capristo decided to participate in the German television show \"Popstars\" on the ProSieben network. At the finale, the audience chose Capristo via televoting to become the final member of the girl band trio Monrose alongside Senna Guemmour and Bahar Kızıl. The group's debut single \"Shame\" peaked at number one on the German Singles Chart and became one of the best-selling singles of the year, resulting in a sales total of 200,000 copies Europe-wide. The group released their debut album \"Temptation\" in December 2006, which debuted on the charts at number one and was certified two times platinum by Media Control Charts in 2007. Since 2006, the girl group released four studio albums, \"Temptation\", \"Strictly Physical\", \"I Am\" and \"Ladylike\" which entered the charts in the Top 10. Their singles \"Shame\" and \"Hot Summer\" have charted at number one. Overall, they released eleven singles, which seven of eleven reached the Top 10 in the German Charts. In 2008, they won their first Comet Award for Best Single with \"'Hot Summer\" and in 2009 for the best band. In June 2010 she featured on the German cover of FHM Magazine and posed in the same calendar.\n\nOn 25 November 2010 Monrose announced that the group would split and each focus on their solo projects. The last official TV appearance Monrose had was on 27 February 2011 with their single \"Like a Lady\" at the finale for cycle 3 of Austria's Next Topmodel.\n\nAfter the disbanding of Monrose Capristo confirmed in an interview that she already started recording for her first album in November 2010. In May 2011 she performed two songs off her first album. One track called \"Be You\", it will be the B-Side of her first single and it was written for the Be-Yu Cosmetics. The other song is called \"Overrated\" which will also appear on the album. Because of a cooperation with Peter Maffay they recorded the song \"Die Zeit hält nur in Träumen an\" (German) and performed on 8 October at \"Wetten, dass ..?\", in October 2012 the singer went on Tabaluga-Tour with Peter Maffay. The single with Peter debuted at number 86 in the German Charts.\n\nIn March 2012, Mandy announced her first solo single \"The Way I Like It\" written and produced by David Jost, would be released on 13 April. Her first album was to be called \"Grace\". The album was released on 27 April under her new record label EMI and Starwatch Entertainment. As her second single she released a song called \"Closer\" written by Robin Grubert and Martin Tingvall.\n\nShe also took part on 14 March 2012 with professional dancer Stefano Terrazzino at the dance show Let's Dance, the German version of Dancing with the Stars. The second and last single from the album was \"Closer\" (released 31 August 2012).\n\nIn 2016 she changed her artist name to Grace Capristo and released her single \"One Woman Army\" written by American songwriter and producer PJ Bianco, P. Bentley, Aimée Proal and Caprito to moderate success. On 28 October 2016 she also released a song called \"Ricorderai l'Amore (Remember The Love)\" with Italian singer Marco Mengoni.\n\nCapristo has published songs in English; only for the Tabaluga project and the feature film \"Rapunzel\" has she sung in German. She also sang the song \"Grace\" in Italian, although she does not speak that language. A complete production of their songs was used in acoustic versions. 2016 she also released a track called \"Ricorderai l'Amore (Ricorderai l'Amore)\" with Italian singer Marco Mengoni where she sung an Italian part. Capristo said, \"I feel most comfortable with English, because I personally think that my voice sounds at its best. Although German is my native language, I feel more comfortable in English.\" In addition, she added: \"It is very important that I decide my projects.\"\nIn a review of the album \"Grace\" the music magazine Laut.de wrote: \"\"Grace\" is a nice debut-intentioned work, but which, unfortunately, proves that the chick from Monrose-targeted new style does not get paid on album length. [...] \"It Don't Matter\" and the acoustic session was the best, without all the trappings actually show her vocal talent.\" CD Bewertungen.de: \"Her fans can look deep into her soul and makes clear that a lot is just smoke and mirrors as well as a \"Star\" has its problems, is lonely, has been violated.\" The British magazine \"Popjustice\" wrote: \"We love it in a very deep and pure way, of course, but we were hoping Mandy's album \"Grace\" would contain so many extraordinary tunes that we could make one of them a Big Song instead. \"The Way I Like It\" gets its time in the sun after all, and that's not a completely bad thing because it is, of course, a cracker.\n\nCapristo called Beyoncé Knowles as her musical influence, and her idol. Thus she sang If I Were a Boy at the Comet music award . She also called Whitney Houston as another influence, for their sake she has begun to sing. She also said: \"Destiny's Child have accompanied me all my life, and so I made my first steps into the music. I also hear India Arie and Sade Adu. Eventually, she wants to work with them. Other musical influences are Rihanna and Nicole Scherzinger. In addition, she got experience with Peter Maffay and learn from him the major foundations for her solo career.\n\n2007 Capristo signed an advertising contract with Gillette Venus. That same year, Capristo modeled for the fashion brand Ed Hardy. 2008 Capristo filmed commercials for ProSieben. There, she presented the We Love Collection, a cooperation with Otto. In October 2008, Capristo was the testimonial for the Nintendo DS game Just 4 Girls. The following year, Capristo modeled for the Otto catalog and was on the cover. In spring of 2010 she had completed a two-year contract with the cosmetics brand BeYu and modeled in 2011 for the brand at the Mercedes Fashion Week in Berlin.\n\n2007 Capristo occurred on \"Schau nicht weg!\", a concert that is opposed to violence. It was a campaign of the magazine BRAVO, the young people should arrange to deal with issues such as social hot spots, violent conflict or bullying. 2008 Capristo was ambassador of the \"Federal Foundation for Children's Hospice\", supporting the Climate Change Programme Climate fashion as jury president. For this, the fashion designers made the clothes exclusively with environmentally friendly and sustainable materials. In addition, since 2011 Capristo was in the context of Germany's Relief for victims of famine in East Africa. Capristo said: \"It is important for me, especially in this superficial world in which we live and to forget in this superficial business, we should make positive use..\"\n\nCapristo started dating German footballer Mesut Özil in 2013. The relationship ended in October 2014, following reports of Özil being involved with another woman. On 12 November 2015, Özil and Capristo appeared together at the Bambi awards ceremony in Berlin. An Instagram photo uploaded by Özil and Capristo used the hashtag #OziStoIsBack, suggesting that the couple are back together. However, in 2017, this confirms that Capristo and Özil are separated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5810399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5810399", "title": "Quintus Labienus", "text": "Quintus Labienus\n\nQuintus Labienus Parthicus (died 39 BC) was the son of Titus Labienus. He was a Roman general in the Late Republic period. He made an alliance with Parthia and invaded the Roman provinces in the eastern Mediterranean which were under the control of Mark Antony. He occupied the Roman province of Syria together with the Parthians in 40 BC. He then pushed into southern Anatolia, still with Parthian support. The main Parthian force took charge of Syria and invaded Judea. Both Labienus and the Parthians were defeated by Publius Ventidius Bassus, who recovered these provinces for Mark Antony.\nAfter the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BC, there was a civil war between the Caesarians, the supporters of Caesar, and the Pompeians, the supporters of Pompey, who had led the forces of the Roman senate against Caesar during Caesar's Civil War (49-45 BC). In this civil war, the Liberators' Civil War (43-42 BC), the Pompeians were led by Gaius Cassius Longinus and Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger, the leaders of the conspiracy to murder Caesar. They fought against Octavian and Mark Antony, two members of the Second Triumvirate, an alliance between the three leaders of the Caesarians. Cassius and Brutus were defeated at the Battle of Phillipi in October 42 BC. Labienus tried to resurrect the Pompeian cause with the help of the Parthians.\n\nAccording to Festus, Labienus fled to Persia. However, according to Cassius Dio, he was instead sent by Brutus and Cassius to Orodes II, the king of Parthia, to obtain reinforcements before the Battle of Phillipi. He was kept there for a long time as Orodes was waiting to see how things would turn out. Labienus remained in Parthia when he heard of the defeat at Phillipi for fear of reprisals by the victors. When he saw that Mark Antony misruled his provinces in the east and that he went to Egypt, he persuaded Orodes to attack the Romans. He told him that some of their armies had been destroyed or impaired in the battle and other armies were mutinous. He advised him to invade Syria while Mark Antony was in Egypt and told him that many Roman provinces would welcome him as they had been alienated by Antony's mistreatment. He offered to take the command of his troops. Orodes was persuaded to wage war and entrusted a large force to Labienus and his son Pacorus I. Plutarch, instead, wrote that the Parthian generals appointed Labienus commander-in‑chief of a Parthian army which was hovering in Mesopotamia and was about to invade Syria. According to Justin, it was Pacorus who had the leadership of the invading force.\n\nJustin thought the Parthians took the side of the Pompeians and allied with Labienus because they had formed a friendship with Pompey in the Third Mithridatic war (73-63 BC) and because they had defeated and killed Marcus Licinius Crassus, who was an ally of Caesar, at the Battle of Carrhae (53 BC). The son of Crassus was in the Caesarian party. Thus, they thought that if the Caesarians won, they would want to avenge the death of Crassus. Justin also wrote that they had already sent assistance to Cassius and Brutus, which is in contrast with Cassius Dio’s account. Appian thought that it was the actions of Mark Antony which caused this Parthian invasion. When Antony fell in love with Cleopatra, he lost his interest in public affairs and did Cleopatra’s bidding. After Caesar’s death on 44 BC there was civil strife in Syria and local tyrants took over the Syrian cities with the help of the Parthians. Antony expelled these tyrants, who took refuge in Parthia. He then imposed heavy tributes. He sent a cavalry force to plunder Palmyra, a rich city, but this was foiled by the townsfolk. He garrisoned Syria. This was the mistreatment Cassius Dio referred to. After this Antony went to Egypt to join Cleopatra. \n\nCassius Dio gave the details of Labienus’ campaign. He invaded Phoenicia and attacked Apamea, but he was repulsed. However, he won over all the Roman garrisons in Phoenicia without resistance because they were soldiers who and fought with Cassius and Brutus and were sent there when Mark Antony incorporated them in his forces. They knew Labienus. Lucius Decidius Saxa, who had been put in command in Syria by Antony, was the only one who did not defect. He fled. Labienus pursued him and defeated him and his few followers. Saxa fled to Antioch. The townsfolk of Apamea surrendered because they thought that Saxa was dead. Labienus forced Antioch to surrender and Saxa fled to Cilicia. Labienus caught up with him, captured him and executed him. Meanwhile, Pacorus subjugated Syria, except for Tyre, whose townsfolk supported the Roman soldiers who fled there. Pacorus did not have a fleet and could not seize the city. He moved on to Judea, invaded it, deposed Hyrcanus II and installed, Antigonus II Mattathias his nephew and foe. Josephus gave a detailed account of events in Judea when the Parthians invaded it.\n\nMeanwhile, Labienus occupied Cilicia and obtained the allegiance of the cities on the southern coast of Anatolia except for three cities in Caria: Stratonicea, Mylasa and Alabanda. The latter two cities had accepted garrisons from him, but then murdered them and rebelled. Labienus seized Alabanda and punished its people. He destroyed Mylasa after it had been abandoned. He besieged Stratonicea for a long time but did not manage to capture it. He styled himself as Parthicus (conqueror of the Parthians), thereby taking a “title from those whom he was leading against the Romans, as if it were the Parthians and not his fellow-citizens that he was defeating.” \n\nPlutarch wrote that Mark Antony was slow to respond to Labienus' invasions because he was caught up with the charms of Cleopatra in Egypt and a luxurious lifestyle, feasting, playing sports and engaging in other youthful pursuits. He was surprised by reports that his wife Fulvia had started a war with Octavian in Italy (the Perusine War, 41-40 BC) and that Labienus “was subduing Asia from the Euphrates and Syria as far as Lydia and Ionia.\" Cassius Dio, instead, wrote that Antony kept himself informed. However, he failed to take defensive measures because now that he was in power he did not pay enough attention to his duties and enjoyed the life of luxury of the Egyptians “until he was entirely demoralised.” When he was forced to take action, he sailed to Tyre to help this city. However, when he saw that Syria had already been occupied, he abandoned it. He sailed along the coast all the way to Greece and then to Italy to support Fulvia in her war against Octavian. He seized Sipontum and besieged Brundisium. When Fulvia died, the hostilities were terminated and there was reconciliation. Antony and Octavian signed the Treaty of Brundisium in September 40 BC.\n\nMark Antony returned to Greece. He sent Publius Ventidius Bassus to Asia against the Parthians and Labienus. When Ventidius came upon Labienus, he was frightened by its suddenness. He was without the Parthians and had only troops which had been levied locally. Ventidius pushed him out of the Roman province of Asia and pursued him into Syria with his lightest troops. He caught up with him near the Taurus Mountains. The two forces stayed encamped for several days. Ventidius was waiting for his heavy-armed troops and Labienus was waiting for the Parthians. Both arrived at the same time. Ventidius was worried about the large enemy cavalry and remained in his camp on a hill. The latter, confident in the strength of their numbers, rode up the hill at dawn without waiting for Labienus’ forces to join them. Ventidius did not respond and the cavalry made a charge up the slope. When they were some way up the Romans attacked and pushed the enemy downhill. Many were killed in combat and a larger number was trampled over by those who were retreating while they were still going up the hill. \n\nThe survivors fled without joining Labienus and Ventidius pursued them up to their camp. Labienus had got there and prepared to offer battle. However, his soldiers were dejected because of the flight of the Parthians. Labienus gave up and tried to withdraw. Ventidius had learned about this from deserters and prepared some ambushes. The enemy was defeated and Labienus escaped. He spent some time in Cilicia in disguise. However, he was found out and arrested. Ventidius took charge of Cilicia and sent a cavalry force to Amanus, a mountain between Cilicia and Syria. It was nearly routed by Pharnapates, a lieutenant of Pacorus in charge of the garrison at the pass. Ventidius showed up unexpectedly, defeated the enemy and killed Pharnapates. The Parthians abandoned Syria and Ventidius seized it without a fight. He occupied Judea and left it after a frightened Antigonous fled. For the actions of Ventidius and his lieutenant, Silo, in Judea see Josephus.\n\nAccording to Florus, the battle was fought between the rivers Euphrates and Orontes, and the defeated force numbered more than 20,000. Ventidius used the stratagem of pretending to panic to get the enemy to come close to prevent them from using their arrows as they would not have room to shoot. Pacorus died in the battle. This was a compensation for the disaster of Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae. His head was carried around the cities which had revolted. Syria was recovered without a fight. Festus wrote that the battle was fought on Mount Caper. Both Labienus and Pacorus died in that battle. The latter died on the same day in which Crassus had been defeated and this avenged his death. Ventidius celebrated a triumph over the Persians. Velleius Paterculus, too, wrote that Labienus and Pacorus died in the battle. Frontinus, like Florus, thought that Ventidius feigned fear to lure the Parthians into an unfavourable situation and then attacked them by surprise. The Parthians refused to follow Labienus and left the province. In the Periochae, with his victory, Ventidius drove the Parthians out of Syria after Labienus had been killed. According to Plutarch, Labienus died in the battle, and so did Pharnapates, the most capable general of Orodes II. Mark Antony received the news of the victory while he was wintering in Athens.\n\nAccording to Justin, Ventidius routed the Parthian army in the absence of Pacorus. Justin, too, wrote that Ventidius pretended to be afraid. He put the Parthians to flight with part of his army. Pacorus thought that the fugitive had drawn all the Romans in their pursuit and that their camp was unguarded. He attacked it, but was defeated by the rest of the Roman troops. Pacorus died. This was the biggest defeat suffered by the Parthians in any war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2408142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2408142", "title": "Richard A. Friedman", "text": "Richard A. Friedman\n\nRichard Alan Friedman, M.D. is professor of Clinical Psychiatry at Weill Cornell Medical College, attending psychiatrist at NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital and director of Psychopharmacology at the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic. He is expert in the pharmacologic treatment of personality, mood and anxiety disorders, obsessive–compulsive disorder, PTSD and refractory depression.\n\nFriedman gained his B.A. in 1978 from Duke University, and his M.D. in 1982 from Robert Wood Johnson Medical School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. He has been at Weill Cornell Medical College from 1996 to the present.\n\nFriedman has authored publications in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" and the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\", among others.\n\nAs of 2014, Friedman's research activity is in the field of chronic depression: evaluating antidepressant medications; studying the effectiveness of long-term treatment; neurobiology; and the social and occupational impairments. He is conducting a clinical study of medication for \"double depression\" (dysthymia with major depression), and evaluating the role of serotonin in chronic depression. He plans a study simultaneously examining brain activity with MRI, behavior, and serotonin functions in patients with chronic depression.\n\nSince the spring of 2015, Friedman has been a contributing op-ed writer at \"The New York Times\", writing about mental health, addiction, human behavior and neuroscience. He has also been a longstanding contributor to the science section of The Times since 2002. In 2011 he contributed to \"The New York Review of Books\".\n\nIn 2014 the \"Financial Times\" reported that Friedman had been practicing Transcendental Meditation for three years. He was quoted as saying, \"I am less reactive to small things that would have bothered and upset me in the past. ... I’m more easygoing.\"\n\nPhysician's Weill Cornell home page: http://vivo.med.cornell.edu/display/cwid-rafriedm, \n\nNew York Times columnist homepage: https://www.nytimes.com/column/richard-a-friedman?action=click&contentCollection=Opinion&module=ExtendedByline&region=Header&pgtype=article\n"}
{"id": "2986558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2986558", "title": "Rience", "text": "Rience\n\nKing Rience , also spelt Ryence, Ryons, and Rion, is a character from Arthurian legend, an enemy of King Arthur in the early years of his reign. His realm varies: in Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", he is king of North Wales, Ireland and \"many isles\".\n\nHe is most notable for his habit of trimming his robe with the beards of eleven kings he has conquered, he wants Arthur's for a complete twelve. This identifies him with the giant Ritho mentioned in Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"History of the Kings of Britain\", who had the same modus operandi and who was also killed by Arthur.\n\nMalory leaves Rience's fate unclear: he is kidnapped by Sir Balin and his brother Sir Balan, forced to submit to Arthur, and never mentioned again. Earlier tales, such as the Prose \"Merlin\" section of the Lancelot-Grail Cycle, have him killed in battle against Arthur.\n\nBecause of the similarity of their names some writers, such as Alfred, Lord Tennyson, identify him with King Urien.\n"}
{"id": "691304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691304", "title": "Robert Howe (Continental Army officer)", "text": "Robert Howe (Continental Army officer)\n\nRobert Howe (; 1732 – December 14, 1786) was a Continental Army general from the Province of North Carolina during the American Revolutionary War. The descendant of a prominent family in North Carolina, Howe was one of five generals, and the only major general, in the Continental Army from that state. He also played a role in the colonial and state governments of North Carolina, serving in the legislative bodies of both.\n\nHowe served in the colonial militia during the French and Indian War and commanded Fort Johnston at the mouth of the Cape Fear River. He also served as a colonel of Royal Governor William Tryon's artillery during the War of the Regulation. Howe suffered greatly when Tryon, a personal friend, became Governor of New York, and he staunchly opposed Tryon's successor. He became active in organizing efforts within North Carolina and among the American colonies between 1773 and 1775 and was an active member of the North Carolina Provincial Congress. At the outset of the Revolutionary War, Howe was promoted to brigadier general and was heavily involved in actions in the Southern Department, commanding the Continental Army and Patriot militia forces in defeat in the First Battle of Savannah.\n\nHowe's career as a military commander was contentious and consumed primarily by conflict with political and military leaders in Georgia and South Carolina. In 1778, he fought a duel with Christopher Gadsden of South Carolina which was spurred in part by Howe's conflict with South Carolina's state government. Political and personal confrontations, combined with Howe's reputation as a womanizer among those who disfavored him, eventually led to the Continental Congress stripping him of his command over the Southern Department. He was then sent to New York, where he served under General George Washington in the Hudson Highlands, although Howe did not have a successful or significant career in that theater. He sat as a senior officer on the court-martial board that sentenced to death John André, a British officer accused of assisting Benedict Arnold in the latter's plot to change allegiance and deliver West Point to the British. Howe himself was accused of attempting to defect to the British, but the accusations were cast aside at the time as having been based in a British attempt to cause further discord in the Continental Army. Howe also played a role in putting down several late-war mutinies by members of the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Lines in New Jersey and Philadelphia and returned home to North Carolina in 1783. He again became active in state politics, but died in December 1786 while en route to a session of the North Carolina House of Commons.\n\nHowe was born in 1732 to Job Howe (also spelled \"Howes\"), the grandson of colonial Governor James Moore, who presided over the southern portion of the Province of Carolina. Job was also a descendant of Governor John Yeamans. Howe's mother may have been Job's first wife Martha, who was the daughter of colonial North Carolina jurist Frederick Jones. Job Howe's ancestors had been planters and political figures in South Carolina during the late 17th and early 18th centuries. Prior to Howe's birth, his family left Charleston to settle on the banks of the Cape Fear River in the Province of North Carolina. Howe's father was a member of the extended Moore family, formerly of South Carolina, who settled the lower Cape Fear River and collectively owned more than of farmland on it by the 1730s. Job Howe died in 1748, leaving his estate and the wealth of his parents to Robert. Robert had two brothers and two sisters, all of whom were mentioned in Job's will.\n\nAs a young boy, Howe may have been sent to England to obtain an education, although several sources doubt that Howe made the journey. At some point between 1751 and 1754, after completing his education, Howe married Sarah Grange, who was heiress to a large fortune. Howe had numerous affairs, fathering an unknown number of children in and out of wedlock, including a son, Robert; two daughters, Mary and Ann; and up to four additional daughters whose mothers' names are not recorded. Howe was widely considered a womanizer by contemporaries; by 1772 he became estranged from Grange, and the two separated. In the year of their formal separation, Howe recorded a deed for the support of his wife.\n\nLoyalist sympathizer and diarist Janet Schaw described Howe prior to the revolution:\n\nHowe inherited a large amount of assets from his grandmother and, upon the death of his father, became the owner of \"Howe's Point\", a rice plantation near what was formerly known as Barren Inlet (now called Mason Inlet). The site of the former plantation is located on the mainland directly across from Figure Eight Island. Howe also owned a plantation called \"Mount Misery\" in what was Bladen County. His grandmother had provided Howe with slaves and money with which Howe was intended to build his fortune.\n\nAround 1755, Howe captained a militia company in Bladen County, and was appointed a justice of the peace for that county in 1756. Howe was elected to the colonial Assembly from Bladen County in 1760 and served until 1762. In 1764, the Assembly created Brunswick County, and Howe was both appointed its justice of the peace and re-elected to the Assembly from the new county. Howe would be re-elected six more times from Brunswick County. In 1765, Howe worked with other colonial leaders such as Hugh Waddell, Abner Nash, and Cornelius Harnett to found the Wilmington Sons of Liberty organization, which was active in protesting the Stamp Act 1765 that taxed most printed materials. At the time, the members of the Sons of Liberty did not consider their resistance to be rebellion, as it was based on the idea that government officials who performed acts in opposition to the will of the people were not acting with full authority. After the resolution of the Stamp Act Crisis, Howe was made an officer of the provincial exchequer. Despite the Cape Fear River area being the epicenter of Stamp Act protests in North Carolina, Howe took no substantial part in the active confrontations with Governor William Tryon, due in large part to their personal friendship and the patronage provided by the Governor for Howe's political ambitions.\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, Howe served alongside provincial soldiers from Virginia. In 1766, he was commissioned as a captain of militia and was given command of Fort Johnston, located at the entrance of the Cape Fear River in present-day Southport, North Carolina. Howe served in this capacity between 1766 and 1767, and again between 1769 and 1773. Although satisfied with this position, Howe ultimately desired to obtain a commission in the regular British Army, which was traditionally a prerequisite for the commander of Fort Johnston. Howe was never granted this commission, despite Tryon's support. In the 1768 session of the colonial assembly, Howe played a prominent role by introducing a bill to remedy a currency shortage in the colony. His bill would have led to the acceptance of commodities as legal tender in the province, but it was not passed. The Regulator movement was in part based on the grievances farmers in the North Carolina backcountry had about back taxes and pressure from private creditors, both of which Howe's 1768 bill had attempted to address.\n\nDespite his efforts to reform the province's policies, Howe was made a colonel of artillery by Governor Tryon and served under the Governor against armed protesters in the piedmont during the War of the Regulation. Howe was among the Governor's entourage when he confronted the Regulators in Hillsborough in 1768, and in 1771, at the Battle of Alamance, Howe served in a dual role as a commander of artillery and quartermaster general. In early 1773, when Josiah Quincy II visited North Carolina to foster cooperation between Southern activists and those in Boston, he investigated the causes of the War of the Regulation to which he had been sympathetic. Howe served as Quincy's guide and with the assistance of Cornelius Harnett and William Hooper convinced Quincy that the Regulator movement had been unjustified and wrong to take up arms against Tryon. Quincy found Howe to be a \"most happy compound of the man of sense, the sword, the Senate, and the buck ... a favorite of the man of sense and the female world\", continuing to say that \"[Howe] has faults and vice – but alas who is without them.\" More importantly, however, Quincy's visit with Howe, Hooper, and Harnett engendered a desire among those present to open up inter-colonial lines of communication in order to coordinate responses to future impositions by the British government.\n\nHowe's private fortunes were never stable, and between 1766 and 1775, he was forced to mortgage land and sell slaves to generate funds. In 1770, Howe was able to purchase Kendal Plantation on the Cape Fear River, a rice plantation, but in 1775, he mortgaged it for around ₤214. While the causes of Howe's financial misfortunes are unknown, several contemporary critics held that the cause was Howe's need to keep up appearances among the ruling elite, while Josiah Martin, Tryon's successor as Royal Governor, believed Howe's misfortunes were evidence of his potential for malfeasance with the public money. In particular, Martin believed that Howe was intentionally under-staffing Fort Johnston in order to pocket excess funds the colonial assembly had appropriated for the garrison there, which was a common form of embezzlement among previous commanders and other royal officials. Howe, as a legislator and public official, had a poor working relationship with Martin, and Martin deprived him of his appointed offices – the captaincy of Fort Johnston and his position with the provincial exchequer – shortly after the new governor's arrival. A legislative confrontation in 1770 over the Provincial Assembly's attempts to pass a law authorizing attachment of real property in North Carolina owned by persons living in England placed Howe in direct confrontation with Martin, who preferred a requirement that colonial subjects seek relief from courts in England rather than in North Carolina. Martin believed that Howe's virulent opposition to the new governor's policies was driven by Howe's anger at being deprived of his valuable appointed positions.\n\nIn December 1773, the North Carolina colonial assembly created a committee of correspondence, to which Howe, as well as Richard Caswell, John Harvey, John Ashe, Joseph Hewes, and Samuel Johnston were appointed. That committee was tasked with corresponding with other colonies to coordinate plans of resistance to British attempts to tax or otherwise burden the colonists. Beginning in 1774, Howe was a member of the Wilmington and Brunswick County Committees of Safety, and in August of that year, served as a member of a committee that organized the collection of corn, flour, and pork to be sent to Boston. At the time, the Port of Boston had been closed by one of the Intolerable Acts, specifically the Boston Port Act, which was in reaction to the Boston Tea Party and other protests against the Tea Act.\n\nWhen the First Provincial Congress convened on August 25, 1774, Howe served as a member of that body representing Brunswick County. The First Provincial Congress quickly passed a bill banning the exportation of all pitch, tobacco, tar, and other trade goods to England and banned the importation of British tea into North Carolina. Also in 1774, Howe penned several documents expressing what would become known as Patriot or \"whig\" sympathies, including an address demanding reforms from Royal Governor Josiah Martin. On April 7, 1775, Howe delivered an address to the colonial assembly formally rebuffing Governor Martin's demands that the extra-legal Second Provincial Congress be dissolved. Howe's response as adopted by the assembly led to Martin proroguing the colonial legislative body. In 1775, when Howe received news of the Battles of Lexington and Concord, the first military engagements of the American Revolutionary War, he began to drill the local militia, using the unusual combination of drums and fiddles as opposed to the standard fifes and drums.\n\nOn July 15, 1775, Howe led 500 militiamen from Brunswick Town on a raid on the governor's mansion with the intent of kidnapping Governor Martin. The plot failed when Martin made an early-morning escape from Fort Johnston, fleeing to on July 19. Howe ordered the militia to put the fort's structures to the torch, starting with the home of its commanding officer and Howe's successor, Captain John Collet, who had previously been accused of corruption by the Committee of Safety. After fleeing, Martin made a proclamation on August 8, 1775, that attributed the growing unrest in North Carolina to what he termed \"'the basest and most scandalous Seditious and inflammatory falsehoods'\" propagated by the Committee of Safety in Wilmington.\n\nHowe once again represented Brunswick County in the Third Provincial Congress in Hillsborough beginning on August 20, 1775, and was appointed to the committee charged with developing a test oath for members of the legislative body. The oath declared allegiance to the King of England but denied the power of Parliament to tax to American colonies. During the Fourth North Carolina Provincial Congress in 1776, Howe was noted to have proclaimed that \"'Independence seems to be the word. I know not one of the dissenting voice.'\"\n\nOn September 1, 1775, the Third North Carolina Provincial Congress appointed Howe to lead the newly created Second North Carolina Regiment of the Continental Army as its colonel. Initially, Howe headquartered his command in New Bern during the fall of 1775 and was charged by the Provincial Congress with protecting the northern half of North Carolina up to the border with Virginia. At the time, British forces under the command of John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore, the last Royal Governor of the Colony of Virginia, were ravaging the tidewater region of Virginia. Howe, of his own initiative, brought his North Carolina troops into Virginia, arriving shortly after the Battle of Great Bridge. Howe then directed the occupation of Norfolk, Virginia, which had recently been abandoned by Loyalist forces, and assumed command of the various North Carolina and Virginia units there. The region around Norfolk was being occupied by Loyalist militia units under Dunmore's command.\n\nHowe, as senior officer chosen over the more junior William Woodford of Virginia, engaged in contentious negotiations over access to supplies with the captains of British ships anchored off Norfolk, which were by that time overcrowded with Loyalist refugees. The situation deteriorated, and Norfolk was burned on January 1, 1776, in an action started by British marines and a bombardment by Royal Navy vessels and completed by Patriot forces. The fire raged on for two more days, and Howe ordered most of the buildings that remained standing to be razed before he withdrew, to further render the location useless to the British. During Howe's time in command at Norfolk, Woodford described the North Carolinian as a \"brave, prudent & spirited commander\". On December 22, 1775, Howe was formally thanked by the Virginia Convention, and on April 27, 1776, he received the same honor from the Fourth North Carolina Provincial Congress.\n\nIn March 1776, Howe was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General by the Second Continental Congress along with fellow North Carolinian James Moore. Howe and Moore were two of five North Carolinians to be given a general's commission in the Continental Army. Initially, Howe was given command of all Continental forces in Virginia, but soon both he and Moore were ordered to South Carolina. Howe arrived first as the presence of the British Army and Royal Navy under the command of General Henry Clinton at the mouth of the Cape Fear River delayed Moore's descent. When Clinton arrived off the coast of North Carolina, he issued a proclamation offering a pardon to anyone who had taken up arms against the crown with the explicit exception of Howe and fellow revolutionary Cornelius Harnett, then serving as president of the North Carolina Provincial Council, the executive body in the revolutionary state. Howe's plantation, Kendal, was sacked by the British during their maneuvers around Wilmington.\n\nUpon arriving in Charleston, Howe acted as an adjutant to Major General Charles Lee, who had been appointed Commander of the Southern Department of the Continental Army. Howe directly commanded the South Carolina militia during the First Siege of Charleston in June 1776 and was assigned command over the defenses of the city proper. Lee was recalled to the North to assist General George Washington, and in his absence, James Moore was appointed Commander of the Southern Department. Howe was left in command of Charleston and Savannah, Georgia in Lee's absence, and in September 1776, he became embroiled in a controversy involving the provincial assembly of South Carolina allowing its officers to recruit soldiers from North Carolina's continental line units. Howe pleaded with the Provincial Congress of North Carolina to allow South Carolina to recruit within the former state's borders because of the greater number of white males in that state. Eventually, North Carolina acceded to that request but only after ordering Howe to reclaim the North Carolinians who had already been lured away by the South Carolinians. The South Carolina Council took offense and demanded that Howe pay the recruitment bonuses for the men if he wished to have them back. With James Moore's death on April 15, 1777, Howe assumed command of the Southern Department.\n\nHowe's style of command was quick to cause discontent, and on August 20, 1777, the South Carolina Assembly protested against Howe's right to command soldiers within the borders of South Carolina. He was nonetheless promoted to the rank of major general on October 20, 1777, the only North Carolinian to reach that rank in the Continental Army. Howe often deferred to the civil leadership of the various states that made up his command, often referring conflicts with state officials to the Continental Congress to resolve. Of particular note was an early conflict with Georgia's state government, which insisted that the governor of that state retain command of the state's militia during military engagements. When asked for an official opinion, Congress sided with Howe, who believed that command of the militia should be relinquished to him during such engagements. Complicating matters, however, was the fact that Congressional funding for military expenditures was given over to the states rather than the army officers, forcing Howe to rely on state governments for funding.\n\nIn 1778, he was ordered to act on a plan developed by General Charles Lee to assault British West Florida – a plan that Howe disfavored. A previous expedition in 1777, in which Howe did not directly participate, had ended quickly in failure. Congress overrode Howe's concerns about the expedition and directed him to proceed in conjunction with Georgia's militia into Florida. The combined Army's progress into Florida was made slow by a lack of provisions and particularly by a lack of slaves who Howe requested be made available to build roads and perform pioneering functions for the march southward.\n\nOn June 29, 1778, Howe captured Fort Tonyn on the St. Marys River, which forms a portion of the border between Georgia and Florida. Georgia Governor John Houstoun refused to give up command of his militia to the Continental Army general and declined to participate in Howe's council. To make matters worse, when South Carolina militia units arrived in Georgia under the command of Colonel Andrew Williamson, their commander also refused to allow Howe to command that state's militia units. Shortly after this minor incursion, the British received reinforcements and pressed toward Savannah. By July 14, 1778, Howe was forced to pull his units back north and returned to Charleston. The general received much of the blame for the expedition's failure, as Georgia officials were quick to cast aspersions on the Continental command, which was compounded by Congress' failure to understand Howe's inability to control the Georgia militia despite their prior determination of his command authority over militia units.\nHowe's squabbles with local political and militia leaders were not his sole difficulties. On August 30, 1778, Howe engaged in a pistol duel with Christopher Gadsden of South Carolina over an offense Gadsden perceived stemming from his resignation in 1777 while under Howe's command. This controversy, like many in which Howe was involved, centered on the conflict between the Continental Army and state governments' desires to retain local control over their officers and soldiers. Gadsden responded to the perceived offense by drafting and circulating a letter attacking Howe's intelligence and ability as a commander and questioning Howe's legal authority to issue orders to South Carolina Continentals. Howe took offense and demanded satisfaction from Gadsden on August 17, 1778.\n\nDuring the duel, Colonel Charles Pinckney, father of South Carolina Governor Charles Pinckney, served as Howe's second, while Colonel Barnard Elliot served as second to Gadsden. Howe, shooting first, missed his shot at eight paces, although the ball grazed Gadsden's ear. Gadsden then intentionally fired above his own left shoulder and demanded Howe fire again, a demand Howe refused. At the conclusion of the duel, the participants made amends and parted ways. The affair did not end privately, as the \"South Carolinian and American Gazette\" published a full story covering the duel on September 3, 1778, and in the same month, the ill-fated Major John André, the British officer who would later serve as a facilitator for Benedict Arnold's change of allegiance, published an 18-stanza satirical poem about the duel set to the tune of Yankee Doodle.\n\nAfter allegations circulated in South Carolina about Howe's dalliances with a woman, the Continental Congress finally removed him from command of the Southern Department on September 25, 1778, replacing him with Major General Benjamin Lincoln. Howe remained with the Southern army and commanded it from Savannah. While awaiting Lincoln's arrival in Savannah with reinforcements, Howe set up defenses around that city, preparing for an imminent attack. Governor Houstoun sparred again with Howe, refusing to grant him more than meager militia support.\n\nDuring the First Battle of Savannah on December 29, 1778, the British landed near the city, and under the command of Archibald Campbell, managed to flank Howe's army, which was drawn up in the open for battle, by taking a path through a marshy area Howe believed was impassable. Howe had previously ordered a scout to look for any paths through the swamp, but Campbell's route, which was shown to the British commander by a slave, remained unknown to the Patriots. Howe's position was otherwise strong and defensible, but the appearance of the British in the Patriot rear caused a panic. The militia under Howe's command fled instantly, and more than 500 Patriots and Continental Army soldiers were killed or captured. The ensuing defeat gave Savannah to the British, for which Howe received much blame. On January 3, 1779, Howe formally relinquished his command to Lincoln.\n\nHowe's failure at Savannah led to criticism from Georgia state officials, who believed he had abandoned the state to the British, as well as from fellow Continental Army generals, such as William Moultrie, who criticized Howe for even attempting to resist the British while being so greatly outnumbered. During his testimony before a later court–martial, Howe claimed that he knew about the pathway through the swamp taken by the British, but stated that he did not defend it because he believed the chance of an attack along the path was \"so remote\". This contradicted earlier testimony from Georgia militia officer George Walton, who stated that Howe did not know about the path prior to the battle and that Howe told Walton that he was mistaken in believing a path through the swamps existed.\n\nAfter Lincoln's arrival, Howe was ordered to join the Continental Army in the North, which he rejoined on May 19, 1779. Suffering from injuries caused by a fall, Howe was unable to undertake any duties for a month after his arrival. Initially, Howe was charged with defending Connecticut from British raids, such as those conducted by his former mentor, William Tryon, and Tryon's adjutant, Edmund Fanning. Howe's headquarters were in Ridgefield, Connecticut.\n\nOn June 18, 1779, shortly after the Battle of Stony Point, Howe was ordered to assist General Israel Putnam in assaulting a British fortification at Verplanck's Point, which sat across the Hudson River from Stony Point. Howe was charged with commanding the artillery barrage and infantry assault of that position, but was given too few field pieces, entrenching tools, provisions, and little ammunition to make a serious attempt at taking the fortification. He advised Washington that an assault would be unfeasible and called off the siege with Washington's consent. Historians have noted that Howe's inability to take the British fortifications damaged his career and that he was never again given a major command. Contemporaries such as General William Irvine criticized Howe as \"having a \"talent\" ... of finding many supposed obstructions, and barely plausible pretences for his delay\" in assaulting Verplanck's Point.\n\nAfter Stony Point, Howe was assigned first to the command of the left wing of Washington's army composed of Massachusetts brigades under Generals John Nixon and John Glover, with his command again in Ridgefield, Connecticut. While military action was infrequent in Howe's region of control, he was integral in the recruitment and cultivation of a substantial spy network which provided the Patriots with information about British positions on Manhattan and along the Long Island Sound.\n\nAs part of his command duties, Howe was chosen by Washington as president of the court–martial convened to determine the propriety of General Benedict Arnold's conduct while serving as the commandant of Philadelphia in 1778 and 1779. During that time, Arnold was alleged to have conducted business with British merchants and to have undertaken private business transactions that were inappropriate given his position, among other improprieties. The tribunal, which met at Howe's headquarters in Middletown, Connecticut, adjourned for several months due to a threatened British attack but reconvened in December 1779 and closed in January 1780. During the interlude in the fall of 1779, Howe was ordered by Washington to move into position to attack the British in conjunction with an expected combined French naval and land-based assault, although the French assault in New York never materialized. The court-martial rendered its decision on January 26, 1780, finding Arnold guilty of breaching the articles of war by permitting a vessel from an enemy port into Philadelphia and recommended that he be reprimanded by Washington.\n\nHowe was made commandant of the Continental Army fortifications at West Point on February 21, 1780. He held that command immediately prior to Benedict Arnold's conspiracy to turn over control of that stronghold to the British. Arnold and several supporters in Congress had eventually convinced Washington to give him command of the fortifications on August 3, 1780. Howe remained active in the upper Hudson River valley during the remainder of the war, particularly in overseeing his network of spies in the area, including double agent Joshua Hett Smith, who would later play a key role in Arnold's treason and prosecution. During this time, evidence arose implicating Howe in discussions with the British, though the evidence was dismissed by Washington as merely rumors stirred up by British General Henry Clinton. Howe served on the court-martial board that convicted of espionage and sentenced to death Major John André, the British officer tasked with facilitating Arnold's conspiracy.\n\nIn 1781, Howe assisted in putting down the Pompton Mutiny in New Jersey, which was inspired by the slightly earlier Pennsylvania Line Mutiny. Washington ordered Howe to surround the camp and arrange for the court-martial and execution of two of its ringleaders. In the fall of 1781, Howe requested permission to go with Washington to Virginia for what was anticipated to be the final campaign against the British, but Washington refused. Instead, Howe was required to appear before a court–martial in Philadelphia which was opened to inquire into Howe's actions in the defense of Savannah in 1778. The tribunal, led by Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben, opened on December 7, 1781, and closed on January 23, 1782, acquitting Howe of any wrongdoing at Savannah with \"the Highest Honor\". Assistant Adjutant General John Carlisle ordered Howe to convene a court–martial to investigate the conduct of General Alexander McDougall in the spring of 1782. McDougall was a personal friend of Howe's, but the tribunal convicted him of the minor offense of releasing confidential details from a council of war meeting in 1776 to persons who were not permitted to have such information. Again in 1783, Howe was called on to put down the Pennsylvania Mutiny of 1783, which had caused the Continental Congress to flee Philadelphia.\n\nAfter putting down the second Pennsylvania mutiny in 1783, Howe participated in the establishment of the Society of the Cincinnati and was the second officer to sign the national charter, with his signature appearing directly below that of von Steuben. Howe thereafter returned to his North Carolina plantation, Kendal, which was upriver from the more famous Orton Plantation owned by Howe's distant relatives. Also in 1783, Howe became a founding member of the North Carolina Society of the Cincinnati and was a signatory to its \"Institution\" or charter. During much of 1783 and 1784, Howe returned frequently to Philadelphia, New York, and other cities in the northeast in an attempt to settle accounts and obtain back payments he claimed he was owed by Congress. He was again forced to mortgage his plantation but eventually received a monetary settlement from Congress of $7,000 in 1785.\n\nDuring 1785, Howe was appointed by the Congress of the Confederation to establish treaties with several western Indian tribes but did not actually travel with commissioners George Rogers Clark, Richard Butler, and Samuel Holden Parsons, who finalized the Treaty of Fort Finney without Howe in 1786. Howe assisted Benjamin Smith in planning for the construction of Bald Head Light and actively worked to assist former Loyalists who sought to return to their prior lives in North Carolina by defending them against the judiciary of the state.\n\nIn the summer of 1786, he was elected a member of the North Carolina House of Commons. On his way to a meeting of the legislative body, Howe fell ill, and died on December 14, 1786, in Bladen County. Howe's remains were buried on property he owned in what later became Columbus County, North Carolina, although the exact location of his burial has not been discovered. A cenotaph was placed in Southport's Old Smithville Burying Ground honoring him and wife Sara.\n\nHowe has been remembered primarily in a negative light based on his lack of military successes and reputation, although North Carolina historian Hugh Rankin noted in a biographical sketch that \"his opportunities came at times when he did not have proper field strength to gain favorable recognition.\" During the 1903 session of the United States House of Representatives, Congressman John Dillard Bellamy introduced a bill to erect an equestrian statue of Howe in Wilmington in order to commemorate the general's service; this bill was not passed. In 1940, the State of North Carolina cast and erected a highway historical marker to commemorate Howe's service. The marker stands on North Carolina Highway 133 in Belville, North Carolina. The 1955 film \"The Scarlet Coat\" featured a performance by actor John McIntire as Howe during the height of the Benedict Arnold conspiracy.\n\nSeveral scholars have raised questions regarding Howe's actions as the unofficial spymaster of the Hudson Valley, all of which center on evidence that suggests Howe attempted to bargain with the British in exchange for a commission as an officer in the regular British Army, similar to the bargain struck by Benedict Arnold in 1780. As early as 1776, after Howe was appointed a brigadier general, a Loyalist merchant named Henry Kelly advised Secretary of State for the Colonies George Germain, 1st Viscount Sackville that Howe could be easily tempted to join the British, and further claimed that Howe could offer a great deal to the British in their war effort.\n\nIn 1780, after Benedict Arnold's attempted treason had been exposed, Captain Beesly Edgar Joel, a British defector and former officer in the British Army, claimed that another officer besides Arnold had attempted to defect, and after interrogation Joel named Howe as that officer. Joel cited Edmund Fanning, William Tryon's secretary, as the source for his information. Joel further described Howe's method of communicating with the British, which was by means of a frequently imprisoned-and-exchanged prisoner who would convey messages between the parties. While neither Washington or the Congressional Board of War believed Joel's story due to their suspicion of Joel as a British spy, Joel was later commissioned by Thomas Jefferson and the Virginia government to lead a Patriot militia unit against Loyalists in that state. Furthermore, William Smith, a New York Loyalist and the brother of Howe's agent and Arnold's co-conspirator Joshua Hett Smith, noted in his diary on April 29, 1780, that his brother, Thomas Smith, had been informed that a commissary had come over to the British with \"information\" from the Patriots in much the same manner as Joel had described. On September 28, 1780, William Smith told Henry Clinton that he believed \"Bob\" Howe would be willing to turn on the Patriots.\n\nLater historians, including Douglas Southall Freeman, have frequently dismissed allegations that Howe attempted to defect, believing them to have been fabrications used by Joel to ingratiate himself with the Patriot government. The only full-length book treatment of Howe's life discusses the allegations of attempted treason in a single page. On the other hand, Freeman's judgment was based primarily on Washington's assessment of the allegations, but Washington did not have access to the potentially corroborating evidence in William Smith's diary. Another possibility is that Howe had merely attempted to spread word among the British of his possible treason in order to conceal his management of the vast spy network at his control; this tactic was utilized by other spymasters in Continental employ such as Philip Schuyler. Philip Ranlet, an American historian who studied Howe's career and motivations, has contrasted Schuyler's otherwise shining reputation with Howe's record of failures and draws the conclusion that Howe likely was attempting to defect. To date, no firm evidence exists which either absolves Howe or proves him guilty of attempted treason.\n\n"}
{"id": "33792801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33792801", "title": "Rollin White", "text": "Rollin White\n\nRollin White (June 6, 1817 – March 22, 1892) was an American gunsmith who invented a bored-through revolver cylinder that allowed metallic cartridges to be loaded from the rear of a revolver's cylinder.\n\nWhite was born in Williamstown, Vermont in 1818. He learned gunsmithing from his older brother, J. D. White in 1837 and would later claim that the idea for a \"rear-loading\" Pepper-box revolver came to him while working in his brother's shop in 1839. In 1849 he went to work for Colt's Patent Firearms Manufacturing Company as a gunsmith under contract, turning revolver barrels on a lathe. During this time he procured two \"junk\" or scrapped revolver cylinders from Colt and placed them in his barrel lathe, cutting the front off one and the rear off the other. He assembled these parts into a single bored-through cylinder that would fit in a Colt revolver.\n\nUp until that time, revolvers were black-powder percussion arms. The shooter had to pour powder into each of the six cylinder mouths, push a bullet over the powder, and load a percussion cap on the rear of the cylinder, making the reloading process cumbersome.\n\nWhile the cartridge revolver was known in Europe, Rollin White's famous patent combined a cylinder and a box magazine. It was a completely unworkable design which never went into production (only one sample was built which malfunctioned dramatically), yet it was the first US patent to include a cylinder bored through so that a revolver could be loaded from the breech. White's original solution for the misfires that plagued early revolvers was to plug the rear of the chambers with pieces of leather. The patent drawings imply that a percussion cap would have had to be applied to the single nipple for each shot, so it would have been far slower than the existing cap-&-ball revolvers.\n\nFor the next three years, White worked on his idea while working at Colt's, during which Colt granted White a contract to manufacture the lockwork of revolvers. White was granted a patent in 1855: \"Improvement in Repeating Fire-arms\". The next year, White signed an agreement granting Smith & Wesson the exclusive use of his patent, at a royalty rate of 25 cents for every revolver.\n\nAfter the Smith & Wesson Model 1 revolver came on the market, White began production of a revolver of his own in 1861 in a factory in Lowell, Massachusetts called \"Rollin White Arms Company\". Approximately 4300 revolvers were made under Rollin White Arms, most of which were sold to Smith & Wesson to keep up with demand. White liquidated the company in 1864 and the assets were bought by Lowell Arms Company, which began manufacturing revolvers directly infringing on White's patent. White sued them, but not until after they had made 7500 revolvers.\n\nWhite and S&W brought infringement cases against Manhattan Firearms Company, Allen & Wheelock, Merwin & Bray, National Arms Company and others. The courts mostly sided with White, but allowed these manufacturers to continue production runs, with a royalty paid to White. In some cases, Smith & Wesson bought the guns back to remark and sell; such guns are marked \"APRIL 3 1855\" as a patent date. Eventually, the matter was litigated as \"White, et al. v. Allen\" in the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; Allen acknowledged his gun infringed on the patent, but challenged the patent itself. The court sided with White.\n\nIn 1867 White offered to sell the patent to Colt's for $1 million, which Colt's declined.\n\nAfter being denied a patent extension, White lobbied Congress for relief in 1870, urging Congress to consider that he had not been fairly compensated for his invention; he made only $71,000, while Smith & Wesson earned over $1 million for his idea. Furthermore, White pointed out that the bulk of his earnings was spent on litigation as others infringed on his idea. Congress passed a bill granting White a rehearing. The act was styled: \"An act for the relief of Rollin White\" (S.273).\n\nThe bill passed both houses of congress with no debate, but was vetoed by President Ulysses S. Grant, citing objections from Chief of Ordnance Alexander Brydie Dyer. Dyer claimed that White's patent litigation during the American Civil War served as \"an inconvenience and embarrassment\" to Union forces for the \"inability of manufacturers to use this patent\". Dyer went on to write that \"its further extension will operate prejudicially to its interests by compelling it to pay to parties already well paid a large royalty for altering its revolvers to use metallic cartridges.\" No further votes were held and the bill died. Rollin White continued his efforts with Congress, and by 1877 he finally gave up any possibility of extension.\n\nWhite invented the knife-edge breech block and self-cocking device for the \"box-lock\" Model 1851 Sharps rifle. These rifles were built by White, Christian Sharps, and Richard Lawrence at Robbins & Laurence in Windsor, Vermont. White later designed a self-cocking mechanism for the 1855 pattern Sharps and built 50 of these rifles for a potential US Navy contract, but the Navy only purchased 12 of them.\n\nRollin White died in Lowell, Massachusetts on March 22, 1892.\n\n"}
{"id": "16774179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16774179", "title": "Saint Pharmutius", "text": "Saint Pharmutius\n\nSaint Pharmutius, according to the \"Prologue from Ohrid\", was the spiritual mentor of Venerable John the Hermit of Armenia circa the fourth century. Pharmutius' holiness was such that angels brought him his daily bread, which in Christian love he shared with his hermit brother John who lived in strict seclusion.\n\nSaint Pharmutius is remembered along with John the Hermit by the Eastern Orthodox Church on 29 March.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19041507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19041507", "title": "Sena and Guttika", "text": "Sena and Guttika\n\nSena and Guttika were two Tamil chiefs from South India who invaded the kingdom of Anuradhapura and killed King Suratissa. They reigned from 237 BC to 215 BC. They were originally two traders who came to Sri Lanka to sell horses; however, they killed Surathissa, the king of Anuradhapura, and ruled the kingdom for 22 years. King Asela defeated them and re-established the kingdom as a Sinhalese monarchy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "654359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=654359", "title": "Sharon Corr", "text": "Sharon Corr\n\nSharon Helga Corr MBE (born 24 March 1970) is an Irish singer-songwriter, musician and television personality. She is best known as a member of the pop-rock band The Corrs, which she co-founded in 1990 with her elder brother Jim and younger sisters Caroline and Andrea. She plays the violin, piano and guitar, and sings backing vocals. She began learning the violin when she was six years old. She has played in national youth orchestras and is qualified to teach the violin.\n\nThe Corr siblings were awarded honorary MBEs in 2005 by Queen Elizabeth II in recognition of both their musical talent and their charitable work raising money for Freeman Hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne, victims of the Omagh Bombing, and other charities.\n\nIn 2012, Corr was revealed as one of the coaches on the first series of the RTÉ talent show \"The Voice of Ireland\".\n\nIn July 2009, Corr was voted into first place in the Ms Twitter UK competition.\n\nOn 15 July 2009, Corr appeared on \"This Morning\", having been booked by host Phillip Schofield via Twitter, to confirm the release of a new solo single and album. Her début single, \"It's Not a Dream\", was released on 29 August in Ireland and 31 August in the UK, with appearances at Isle of Wight, Glastonbury, and a number of other European music festivals. The album, \"Dream of You\", was released on 13 September 2010 and comprises a number of self-penned tracks and select covers with Corr playing violin throughout. She was joined by longtime Corrs' sidemen Anthony (Anto) Drennan on lead guitar, Keith Duffy on bass, and Jason Duffy on drums, with orchestral arrangements by Fiachra Trench, a collaborator on four Corrs' albums.\n\nCorr embarked on the Dream of You Tour on 19 August 2011 in Aberdeen and continued through the UK and Europe, with an Australian leg added in January 2012. While on the tour she introduced a newly written track, \"Edge of Nowhere\", which will be included on her second album.\n\nCorr was a coach on the first and second series of the RTÉ talent show \"The Voice of Ireland\".\n\nIn an interview with the Maitland Mercury in February 2012, Corr revealed that she is piecing together her second solo record.\n\nCorr finished writing the album in March 2012 and she said it may be called \"Catch the Moon\". The title comes from the idea \"of when somebody comes into your life and they utterly change yours, that you would go to any lengths for them... so you would catch the moon.\" However, on 21 August 2013 it was announced that the new album would be titled \"The Same Sun\". Corr will also embark on a world tour during the promoting time of the album. She will have tour in Germany, Brazil, and Indonesia as she had announced about it on the early of September 2013. She will perform in Indonesia at Jakarta Convention Center (JCC), Jakarta, Indonesia, on 24 September 2013 (WIB) as a special guest. Rick Prize was also invited to be the special guest.\n\nThe Same Sun lead single called 'Take a Minute' has peaked No. 11 on Irish Chart, and No. 20 in France Chart. Meanwhile, Yovie Widianto was invited to play at \"The Same Sun Tour\" in Madrid, Spain, on November 2013 as a special guest. \"It was great to have you last night!\" tweeted Corr on the late of November. The tour will be continued to Los Angeles, and New York which had been scheduled to be held on January until February 2014.\n\nIn 2001, Corr married Belfast barrister Robert Gavin Bonnar in Cratloe Church, County Clare. In a performance for BBC Radio 2, she stated, before performing the song, that she walked up the aisle to \"Along with the Girls\", a traditional instrumental track that featured on The Corr's first album, \"Forgiven, Not Forgotten\". The couple met when she was shooting the video for \"Runaway\". They had their first child, son Cathal (\"Cal\") Robert Gerard, on 31 March 2006, and their second child, daughter Flori Jean Elizabeth, on 18 July 2007. After having children, she battled with social anxiety disorder and wrote about her anxiety problems on her solo album. Despite being raised in a devout Catholic environment, Sharon ceased attending Mass as a teenager due to events that took place during The Troubles.\n\nDue to the proximity of Dundalk, County Louth, a town within the Border Region, to the Irish–Northern Irish/United Kingdom border, Corr considers herself to be Northern Irish.\n\nAs well as \"No Frontiers\" with Caroline Corr, Sharon sings \"Dimming of the Day\" and the demo version of \"Goodbye\". In 1999 she recorded violin parts for the Jean Michel Jarre track \"Rendez-vous à Paris\", which was released in 2000 on the album \"Metamorphoses\".\n\nShe also recorded two tracks in 2008 with the Welsh operatic singer Bryn Terfel, and \"Amarrado a Ti\" with the Spanish singer Alex Ubago in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9015930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9015930", "title": "Shiv Narayan Agnihotri", "text": "Shiv Narayan Agnihotri\n\nSh. Shiv Narayan Agnihotri (श्री शिव नारायण अग्निहोत्री) was born at Sri Akbarpur U.P. on 20 December 1850 to Sh. Rameshwar Agnihotri and Smt. Mohan Kunwar. He had his basic education at Sri Akbarpur and for further education enrolled in the Thompson Engineering College at Roorkee (Now IITRoorkee) in 1866. On 9 July 1871, he accepted Pandit Shiv Dayal singh as his personal guru. After completing his education he took up various jobs. In 1873 he moved to Lahore. He became an active member of Brahmo Samaj in 1875 and worked tirelessly for various reformist movements started by it. On 20 December 1882, he left his job and took Jeevan Vrat जीवन व्रत (life Vow). This day he acquired a new name Sh Satyanand Agnihotri. (श्री सत्यानंद अग्निहोत्री). \n\nHis Life Vow \n\nसत्य शिव सुंदर हि मेरा, परम लक्ष्य होवे;\n\nजग के उपकार हि में, जीवन यह जावे | \n\nEnglish \n\nMay beautiful Truth and Goodness, My Foremost aim represent;\n\nAnd in the service of the world, May My life be Fully spent. \n\nHe left Brahmo Samaj in 1887. He formed Dev Samaj in February 1887. Dev Samaj or Dev Dharam holds the following \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444274", "title": "Televue", "text": "Televue\n\nTele Vue Optics is a Chester, New York-based astronomical optics company known primarily for its premium brand of speciality eyepieces and apochromatic refractor telescopes. Founded in 1977 by Al Nagler, an optical engineer from The Bronx who designed simulators used in the Apollo program, the company originally made projection lenses for large projection-screen televisions, but is well known in the astronomy community for its products.\n\nPrior to October 1, 2006, Tele Vue's corporate headquarters has also served as the primary distribution point for Vixen America, a subsidiary of the Japan-based Vixen corporation, with the two companies building equipment that are compatible with each other, especially the Tele Vue refractor with Vixen's \"sphinx\" \"go-to\" mount. Although the company is no longer the principal distributor, Vixen America still maintains its address at Tele Vue's New York location.\n\nTele Vue once manufactured a 5\" refracting telescope named the MPT, the Multi-Purpose Telescope. It had a fast f/4 ratio, and had an adjustable diaphragm that ranged from f/4 to f/20. Only a small number were made, with the last being kept by Televue to use as a final optical quality control for all eyepieces they make. Recent examples of this telescope have sold for well into 5 figures.\n\nToday, Tele Vue's apochromatic refractor telescopes, which have reduced chromatic aberration, come in diameters ranging from 60mm (2.4 inches) to 127mm (5 inches). The imaging system (\"is\" series) telescopes are designed primarily for astrophotography.\n\nTele Vue sells Plossl, Radian, Panoptic, Delos, Nagler, Ethos and Nagler Zoom eyepieces. They made their start with a variety of Plossl eyepieces for amateur astronomers. The introduction of the original Nagler 13mm Type 1 in 1982 with its wide field of view and an equally high price soon made their mark. Using different combinations of lenses of different types of high index optical glasses, the eyepieces produce, respectively, a 50°, 60°,68°, 72°, 82°, 100° and 50° apparent field-of-view. Tele Vue calls the 82° and 100° apparent field-of-view a \"spacewalk\" experience. Wider apparent fields of view are helpful in viewing star clusters, galaxies and nebulae, especially large emission nebulae like the Orion Nebula, but the real reason for wide fields of view is to allow the same true field of view as is found in a lower power, narrower FOV eyepiece. This increases effective contrast and aids in visibility of certain details. Additionally, Tele Vue eyepieces are well corrected for most aberrations, providing edge to edge pinpoint stars, and are well suited to use in popular \"fast\" telescopes. The most expensive Tele Vue eyepiece is the Ethos line, which consists of eight eyepieces known for excellent image quality and ultra-wide 100 degree fields, which can retail for from $500 to $800 or more. At the North East Astronomy Forum 2010, they revealed the Ethos SX, a 3.7mm focal length eyepiece with an even greater 110° apparent field-of-view. In 2011, a new line of eyepieces was introduced called the Delos. These eyepieces are based on the Ethos but have a smaller field of view of 72°. Instead, they boast a comfortable 20mm eye relief. Some Tele Vue eyepieces are over half a foot long and weigh over two pounds.\n\nTele Vue sells several alt-azimuth mounts and tripods.\n\nTele Vue also manufactures special nebula filters, barlow lenses, special image amplifiers known as Powermates, the \"Paracorr\" coma-corrector for \"fast\" (f/5 and below) Newtonian telescopes, and the \"Dioptrx,\" a special lens that fits over most Tele Vue eyepieces to correct eyesight astigmatism.\n\n"}
{"id": "56084682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56084682", "title": "V. M. Varga", "text": "V. M. Varga\n\nV. M. Varga is a fictional character in the FX television series \"Fargo\". He is the main antagonist of the third season and is portrayed by David Thewlis.\n\nVarga is a cunning and verbose criminal mastermind who presides over a massive money laundering scheme. He is the implied boss of the criminal organization Narwhal, which employs his henchmen Yuri Gurka (Goran Bogdan), Meemo (Andy Yu) and Golem (DJ Qualls), who carry out murders and confidence tricks. Varga is of apparent English origin and suffers from bulimia nervosa, which leads to his teeth deteriorating. On the character's eating disorder, Thewlis has said, \"The idea is bulimia in his life. He’s a man who is so ultimately in control of seemingly everything, and it’s therefore an expression of the one part of his existence that he’s not in control of, something that at times he loses control of… vulnerability.\"\n\nDespite his wealth, Varga shuns excess and is always seen wearing a discount suit. Throughout the season, he is seen living in the back of a semi-trailer, in which he sleeps on the floor and works on a workstation connected to computer servers. According to Varga's creator, Noah Hawley: \"It’s a very spartan life he lives... Obviously he’s got a lot of money, but you’ll never see him in a hotel or in a towncar.\" \n\nThere are signs of paranoia in Varga's dialogue and behavior: he expresses a belief in Moon landing conspiracy theories, as well as prejudices such as antisemitism, and appears to admire Joseph Stalin (a portrait of whom is seen on a wall next to Varga's workstation).\n\nIn 2010, Varga arrives at Stussy Corporation offices when Emmit Stussy seeks to repay a business loan from Varga's shady organization made two years before. However, Varga explains that the company does not want their money back, and that it was an \"investment\" and partnership with his organization. Concerned for his business, Emmit asks his lawyer Irv Burman to investigate Varga. A Google search causes the lawyer's computer to crash and, later, Varga's henchmen Yuri Gurka and Meemo toss him off a parking garage. Varga then takes ownership of an unused wing of Emmit's offices. Learning of a theft by Emmit's younger brother Ray, and suspecting Varga was involved in Irv's death, Emmit and Sy consider selling their company.\n\nThings escalate when Varga shows up unannounced for dinner at Emmit's house. After dinner, Varga proposes to sign Emmit on as a business partner. Although Emmit is reluctant, Varga convinces him that signing will allow him to become much richer and ensure his wealth is protected; the former ultimately complies. When Officer Lopez, who is investigating the hit-and-run he committed, questions Sy, who acts very suspiciously, Yuri and Meemo are watching. Later, Varga takes Sy's office and punishes him for talking to law enforcement by forcing him to drink urine from his mug. Varga has a meeting with Emmit, voicing his distrust of Sy and suggests he and Emmit's ne'er-do-well brother Ray may be working together to bring Emmit down. Explaining to Emmit and Sy, he plans to expand Stussy Lots by 16 garages within three months; Sy is wary, but Emmit seems eager. When Gloria Burgle and Lopez want to question Emmit, Varga curtails the meeting and obtains Gloria's card. A distraught Emmit calls Varga to manage the cleanup of Ray's death at the former's hand. Varga concocts a story that Ray abused his girlfriend Nikki Swango, causing injuries actually inflicted by Varga's men, and she retaliated. On Christmas, Varga asks Emmit how he feels about his murder of Ray; Emmit responds, \"Free\", but begins to cry. He sends uniformed assassin Golem to kill an imprisoned Nikki but, when this fails, his men plant a ramp, causing the prison bus, with Nikki and Mr. Wrench inside, to overturn. Nikki escapes with Wrench's help; Varga's men die along the chase. Varga poisons Sy, sending him into a coma.\n\nTwo-and-a-half months later, Nikki and Mr. Wrench are still at large, and Varga has expanded Emmit's business after becoming his partner. Varga gives Emmit tranquilizers to calm him, which he feigns taking. Marvin Stussy, a dentist in St. Cloud, is killed in the same manner as Ray. George Stussy is also found murdered in the same manner as Ennis. Ex-con Donald Woo, presumably working for Varga, is picked up for the murders and deliberately takes the fall, admitting to having committed all four. Varga meets with Nikki, and in order to get out of the blackmailing he repeatedly attempts to both poison and to hire her, but she refuses. Nikki gives Varga 24 hours to pay her ransom or she'll send his and Emmit's financials to the IRS.\n\nAfter returning from the police station, Emmit is forced to sign many contracts, after which he grabs Meemo's gun and attempts to force Varga to withdraw from his house and business. Varga incapacitates him, and Meemo attacks him from behind. After leaving Emmit's house, Varga, Meemo, and the crew go to meet Nikki and Mr. Wrench to pay ransom for the hard drives, but are ambushed by Wrench. Meemo and his accomplices are killed, but Varga escapes. Emmit, regaining consciousness, goes to Stussy Lots' offices to find that Ruby Goldfarb, a businesswoman who was apparently in league with Varga, has finalized her acquisition of the company for $100,000 and has begun moving her employees into the building. Goldfarb assures Emmit that he holds millions in offshore accounts, but that he is liable for Stussy Lots' large debts and advises him to declare bankruptcy, leaving him distraught.\n\nFive years later, Gloria, now an agent for the Department of Homeland Security, interviews Varga, who is going by the name \"Daniel Rand\", in a holding cell. She declares that in five minutes he will be going to jail for money laundering and six counts of conspiracy to commit murder. However, Varga asserts that in five minutes Gloria's superior will arrive and let him go free. Gloria scoffs, then starts counting down the minutes on the cell's clock while Varga hums, confident.\n\nPrior to his casting, Thewlis has already been a fan of the original 1996 film and had seen the previous two seasons. Upon learning that Hawley was interested in him for season 3, he jumped at the chance. Thewlis enjoyed playing the character, saying \"I think I’ve had more fun playing Varga than I’ve had for quite a number of years, playing anything. It’s just so beautifully written. Every few weeks, I got a new script, I’d settle down with a cup of coffee like I was about to read \"Anna Karenina\".\"\n\nThewlis received critical acclaim for his performance. Liz Shannon Miller of \"IndieWire\" remarked, \"When 'Fargo' Year 3 announced its cast, Ewan McGregor was clearly the biggest name involved, and the fact that he would be playing brothers had everyone intrigued. But in subsequent weeks, fans aren’t clamoring for McGregor’s Ray or Emmit, but they are obsessed with the character of V.M. Varga. And that’s because David Thewlis is turning in one of the spring’s darkest, most horrifying supporting performances, one that will be hard to overlook this Emmy season.\" Brian Tallerica of Vulture.com, praising the whole cast, singled out Thewlis, saying \"If I had to pick one (MVP), it might be Thewlis, who gave the season its simmering menace.\" Maureen Ryan of \"Variety\" also opined \"David Thewlis’ sallow, well-spoken gangster, for instance, is one of the most menacing men to ever wear a sack-like, forgettable bargain suit.\"\n\nFor his work on \"Fargo\", Thewlis was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie, a Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Movie/Miniseries, and a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film.\n"}
{"id": "1116639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1116639", "title": "Wea", "text": "Wea\n\nThe Wea were a Miami-Illinois-speaking Native American tribe originally located in western Indiana, closely related to the Miami Tribe. The name \"Wea\" is used today as the a shortened version of their numerous recorded names. The Wea name for themselves (autonym) in their own language is \"waayaahtanwa\", derived from \"waayaahtanonki\", 'place of the whirlpool', where they were first recorded being seen and where they were living at that time. The different spellings of their name are numerous, as they were made by different settlers from different language and educational backgrounds. One French version is \"Ouiatenon\"; another \"Ouiateno\"; there were Wea villages, whose sites are now known as Lafayette and Terre Haute, Indiana, respectively. In 2004 the Indiana Historical Bureau installed a marker commemorating the Wea Village in Terre Haute and its living descendants. The Wea spoke a dialect of Miami, the same language as the Miami Tribe, both from the Algonquian languages.\n\nWhen the Wea had increased considerably in numbers at their village of Ouiatenon, near present-day Lafayette, Indiana, \"Piankeshaw\" offered to move and take part of the people with him further downriver to start a new village, which he established near the mouth of the Vermilion River. He had tribal markings of holes or slits in his ears, and he was called Piankeshaw (\"the Torn-Ears People\"). The Piankeshaw were the Deer Clan of the Wea.\n\nDuring the 19th century the Miami, Wea, Eel River and Piankashaw all occupied areas of Indiana. These tribes all signed treaties separately with the United States government and were considered to be distinct polities.\n\nThe Wea also had villages in present-day Wisconsin, Illinois, and Ohio. Their main homeland in the 18th century was in Indiana, as well as a few villages in Illinois and Ohio. The three largest villages of the Wea were Ouiatenon, west of what is now Lafayette; a location now occupied by Terre Haute, and \"Chipicokia,\" at present-day Vincennes (founded by French Canadian colonists.), Indiana.\n\nLesser settlements included five villages on the South side of the Wabash across from Fort Ouiatenon, occupied by the Wea, Piankeshaw, Pepicokia, and Gros clans. Toward the west near present-day Granville were villages of the Kickapoo people.\n\nWith increased Euro-American settlement and Indian removals, the United States made many treaties with these tribes. A Treaty in 1854 was made that confederated the Wea who went west, the Kaskaskia, Peoria, and Piankeshaw as the Confederated Peoria Tribe of Kansas, then Indian Territory. After moving West, later they were known as the Peoria Tribe of Oklahoma.\n\nMany of the Wea Tribe did not go west in the removals and remained in Indiana. They were referred to in treaties as the Wea on the Wabash, or the Wabash Wea. In historical records, they have been called the Wabash Confederacy or the Wabash Indians.\n\nDescendants of the Wea reside today in Indiana, the United States and abroad.\n\nListed are just a few villages that were located in Indiana and Illinois.\n\nBelow are some of the many Treaties were made between the US and the Wea. \nwas not at the original treaty but signed later\n\nThe following referred to Wea who chose to stay in Indiana:\nTreaty of St. Marys 1820 in Article 3: \n\"As it is contemplated by the said Tribe, to remove from the Wabash, it is agreed, that the annuity secured to the Weas, by the Treaty of Saint Mary's, above mentioned, shall hereafter be paid to them at Kaskaskia in the state of Illinois. \"\n\nTreaty of Castor Hill 1832 in Article 4:\n\"The United States will also afford some assistance to that part of the Wea tribe now residing in the State of Indiana\",\n\nThe descendants of the Wea, along with the Kaskaskia and Piankeshaw, are enrolled in the Peoria Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, a federally recognized tribe in Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "19873240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19873240", "title": "Yisrael Eichler", "text": "Yisrael Eichler\n\nYisrael Eichler (, ; born 27 March 1955) is an Israeli politician. A member of Agudat Yisrael, he served as a member of the Knesset for the party and the United Torah Judaism alliance from 2003 until 2005, and again since 2011.\n\nBorn in Jerusalem, Eichler worked as an author and journalist. He became editor of \"HaMahane HaHaredi\" in 1980, and in 1996 became chairman of the Centre for Jewish Publicity.\n\nIn 2003, he was elected to the Knesset on the United Torah Judaism list, an alliance of Agudat Yisrael and Degel HaTorah. The alliance split in January 2005, and Eichler resigned from the Knesset on 23 February that year and was replaced by Shmuel Halpert.\n\nAs part of a seat rotation agreement within United Torah Judaism, he returned to the Knesset on 6 February 2011 as a replacement for Meir Porush. He served as parliamentary group chairman until 2013. He was re-elected in the 2013 elections, and was placed sixth on the UTJ list for the 2015 elections, retaining his seat again as the party won six seats. Following a Supreme Court ruling that public mikveh facilities must allow use by followers of Conservative and Reform Judaism in February 2016, he compared non-Orthodox Jews to the \"mentally ill\".\n\nEichler is married, with 14 children. He lives in Jerusalem.\n"}
{"id": "1287448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287448", "title": "Yuen Woo-ping", "text": "Yuen Woo-ping\n\nYuen Woo-ping (; born 1945) is a Hong Kong martial arts choreographer and film director, renowned as one of the most successful and influential figures in the world of Hong Kong action cinema. He is one of the inductees on the Avenue of Stars in Hong Kong. Yuen is also a son of Yuen Siu-tien, a renowned martial arts film actor.\n\nYuen was born in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. He achieved his first directing credit in 1978 on the seminal \"Snake in the Eagle's Shadow\", starring Jackie Chan, followed quickly by \"Drunken Master\". The films were smash hits, launching Jackie Chan as a major film star, turning Seasonal Films into a major independent production company, and starting a trend towards comedy in martial arts films that continues to the present day.\n\nYuen went on to work with such figures as Sammo Hung in \"Magnificent Butcher\" (1979), Yuen Biao in \"Dreadnaught\" (1981), Donnie Yen in \"Iron Monkey\" (1993), and Jet Li and Michelle Yeoh in \"Tai Chi Master\" (1993), and \"Wing Chun\" (1994).\n\nYuen's works, particularly his action choreography on \"Fist of Legend\" (1994), attracted the attention of the Wachowskis, who hired him as the martial arts choreographer on \"The Matrix\" (1999). The success of this collaboration, plus his action choreography on the following year's hit \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\", made him a highly sought after figure in Hollywood. He went on to work on the \"Matrix\" sequels and \"Kill Bill\" (2003).\n\nMore recent action choreography duties in Hong Kong cinema have included \"Kung Fu Hustle\" (2004), starring Stephen Chow, and \"Fearless\" (2006), starring Jet Li.\n\nYuen also choreographed the action sequences in \"The Forbidden Kingdom\" (2008), a Hollywood martial arts–adventure film, which was the first film to star together two of the best-known names in the martial arts film genre, Jackie Chan and Jet Li. He worked as a fight choreography consultant on \"Ninja Assassin\" (2009).\n\nIn late 2010, Yuen released his first film as director since 1996, \"True Legend\", starring Vincent Zhao and Jay Chou.\n\nYuen went on to work in two south Indian films as a stunt co-ordinator in Enthiran (2010) and I (film) (2014) both were directed by same director S. Shankar.\n\nIn 2015, Yuen directed \"\", re-creating many of his signature action choreographies.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
