{"id": "1188569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188569", "title": "American Deserters Committee", "text": "American Deserters Committee\n\nThe American Deserters Committee (ADC) of Montreal, Quebec, Canada was a group of American Armed Forces members who deserted their posts and went to Canada to avoid the Vietnam War. The deserters were aided in their efforts by groups such as Students for a Democratic Society, the Black Panthers, the Revolutionary Union, The Resistance, American Friends Service Committee, War Resisters League and the Committee for Peace and Freedom.\n\nADC was formed by a group of politically active deserters, including Jerry Borstein and Bill Hertzog in December 1968, modeled on existing Deserters' Committees in Paris and Stockholm. ADC members included both deserters and their spouses and girlfriends, and welcomed other expatriate Americans who shared their views. Though ADC retained almost total ideological independence, it received the bulk of its funds from the Montreal Council to Aid War Resisters (MCAWR), which, in turn, received most of its funds from the Canadian Council of Churches.\n\nADC operated a hostel for newly arrived deserters (sometimes housing up to 20 men at a time), and published a newsletter called ADC Times. By the early summer of 1970, friction within ADC began to emerge over the group's inner circle of founders and colleagues, who had begun calling themselves the \"Central Committee.\" The Committee was seen by many as increasingly autocratic and undemocratic, adopting a radical, Marxist agenda, and discouraging dissent. In addition, it had allied itself with Quebec's separatist Front de Liberation Populaire (FLP), a nonviolent and implicitly Marxist organization, which campaigned for an independent and ideologically progressive Quebec. Though most ADC members were at least sympathetic to the FLP agenda, many feared that allying ADC (which had a few dozen members) with FLP (which had thousands of active supporters) benefitted neither group, while tarnishing the images of both.\n\nIn 1971, the ADC merged with the MCAWR, forming the American Refugee Service.\n"}
{"id": "345815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345815", "title": "Barnard's Inn", "text": "Barnard's Inn\n\nBarnard's Inn is a former Inn of Chancery in Holborn, London. It is now the home of Gresham College, an institution of higher learning established in 1597 that hosts public lectures. \n\nBarnard's Inn dates back at least to the mid-thirteenth century – it was recorded as part of the estate of Sir Adam de Basing (Adam de Baysing), one time Lord Mayor of London. It passed on to John Mackworth, the Dean of Lincoln, who in turn passed it on to the Dean and Chapter of Lincoln on his death in 1451. Three years later, it was established as an Inn of Chancery – these were schools for law students before they passed on to an Inn of Court. Barnard's Inn was one of two Inns of Chancery linked to Gray's Inn, the other being Staple Inn. Members of Gray's Inn were appointed readers to the Barnard or Staple Inn. For example, in the meeting of the Pension of Gray's Inn, 19 November 1617, it was stated: \"Mr. William Denny chosen Reader of Barnard's Inn.\" Members of Barnard or Staple's Inn had to pay four pounds for being admitted to Gray's Inn. Hence, at the meeting of the Pension 15 May 1626 it was said that gentlemen coming from Barnard or Staple's Inn \"and crave the benefit of the fine of 43 pounds and 4 shillings upon their admittance shall be admitted of the third table and paye but 43 pounds and 4 shillings in that respect, otherwise to paye foure poundes as others do notwithstanding they be of Barnards Inne or Staple Inne.\"\n\nBarnard's Inn was badly damaged during the Gordon Riots in 1780. An adjacent distillery, owned by a Roman Catholic, Mr Langdale (who escaped), was set alight by rioters. The Hall and other buildings were damaged and one of the officers of the Inn witnessed a \"sturdy fellow\" pumping up gin from the cellar which he proceeded to sell at a penny a mug to the thirsty onlookers of the fire. The Inn received £3,200 in compensation for the damage.\n\nBy the 17th century, qualified attorneys were allowed to practise from Inns of Chancery as well as Inns of Court. By 1830, it had effectively become a set of residential chambers. In 1888, the link to the Dean and Chapter of Lincoln was broken and soon it was purchased by the Mercers' Company, serving as premises for the Mercers' School until 1959. It has been used as a venue for lectures by Gresham College since 1991.\n\nThe buildings consist of a Hall, with 18th-century chambers and reception room. The Hall has three wooden bays, and dates from the 15th Century with 16th-century linen fold wood panelling. The roof timbers include the only surviving crown posts in Greater London. Some chalk-and-tile walling in the seminar room below dates back to Roman London.\n\nThe Hall suffered from poor repair and two inadequate restorations in the 19th century. The Mercers' Company organised substantial repairs in 1932. The roof was removed, renovated and replaced and two fireplaces of Tudor design were installed. The windows were reglazed, releaded and reframed. The windows contain the armorial bearings of Principals of Barnard's Inn:\n\n\nThe hall was renovated again in 1990, adding facilities for meetings and functions, ready to become the home of Gresham College.\n\nThe hero of Charles Dickens's novel \"Great Expectations\", Pip, lodged in Barnard's Inn with Herbert Pocket for a number of years following his arrival in London, which would have been circa 1820.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12748158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12748158", "title": "Basell Polyolefins", "text": "Basell Polyolefins\n\nBasell Polyolefins was a joint venture between BASF and Royal Dutch Shell. Leonard Blavatnik's Access Industries acquired it from the venturers for $5.7 billion in August 2005. In 2007, Basell merged with the privately owned US company Lyondell Chemical Company to form LyondellBasell, which went bankrupt in the US in January 2009 and emerged from bankruptcy in April 2010.\n\nBasell was the world's largest producer of polypropylene and advanced polyolefins products, the world's largest producer of polyethylene, and a global leader in the development and licensing of polypropylene and polyethylene processes, and a leader in catalysts.\n\nBasell's heritage comes from many companies, including BASF, Hercules, Himont, Hoechst, ICI, Montecatini, Montedison and Royal Dutch Shell. However Basell, and then later LyondellBasell, had its origin in a joint venture between BASF and Royal Dutch Shell. Spurred on by the work of Nobel Prize-winning scientists Karl Ziegler and Giulio Natta, these Basell predecessor companies were among the leaders of the polyolefin revolution that began in the late 1930s and 1950s. This transformation is still driving the petrochemicals industry today. In 2007, driven on by its then owners Access Industries and against the advice of Basell senior management, Basell acquired the privately owned US company Lyondell Chemical Company to form LyondellBasell, paying far above the market rate for the shares. The main winner was Access, who also held significant shares in Lyondell and was able to realise a massive profit by forcing Basell to overpay. This drove the new company rapidly to file for chapter 11 in the US in January 2009, from which it emerged in May 2010.<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "14983947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14983947", "title": "Calendars of the Grants of Probate and Letters of Administration", "text": "Calendars of the Grants of Probate and Letters of Administration\n\nCalendars of the Grants of Probate and Letters of Administration or CGPLA was an index published in the United Kingdom and Ireland that lists an alphabetical summary of probate documents such as wills. The correct full title for Ireland is \"Calendars of the Grants of Probate and Letters of Administration Made in the Principal Registry and in the Several District Registries 1858-1920\". \n\nEvery year from 1858, volumes of short summaries of grants of probate and of letters of administration were created, in alphabetical order by surname. For each grant of probate, these include the name, address, and occupation (or other description) of the deceased, the place and date of the death, the date on which probate was granted and the value of the estate, and the names and addresses of any executors. \n\nFor 1858 to 1877, there is also a consolidated index.\n"}
{"id": "8257447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8257447", "title": "Commissioner of deeds", "text": "Commissioner of deeds\n\nA Commissioner of Deeds is an officer having authority to take affidavits, depositions, acknowledgments of deeds, etc., for use in the state by which the person is appointed. The office is similar to that of Notaries Public; thus, commissioners of deeds generally authenticate their acts with some type of official seal.\n\nThe office of Commissioner of Deeds is one unique to the United States. During the 19th century, deeds concerning property located in a particular state could only be acknowledged before a Notary Public in that state; if the deeds was acknowledged outside the state where the subject property was located, the grantor would have to find a judge of a court of record to take the acknowledgment. Because of the difficulty in finding a judge, most states created the office of Commissioner of Deeds to allow state officials to be present in other states to assist with the acknowledgment of instruments intended to be used in the state by which the commissioner was appointed. Over time, states began to accept the notarial acts of notaries in other states and the need for commissioners became eradicated. As a result, most of the states abolished the office during the 20th century. Although at one time at least half of all states appointed such commissioners, currently the only states whose statutes authorize such appointment are the states of Colorado, Florida, Kentucky, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Usually the appointment and commission is granted by the state governor or secretary of state. However, even in the states which have laws allowing the appointment of commissioners, the majority of these states no longer grant appointments. Currently, only Florida, New Hampshire, New York and West Virginia still allow the appointment of commissioners.\n\nIn the state of Florida, Commissioners of Deeds are officers appointed by the Governor to take acknowledgments and administer oaths on documents executed outside Florida, but to be used or recorded in connection with a timeshare property located in Florida. Commissioners are appointed to serve in a particular country and may only act in the country to which they are appointed, but they are not required to actually reside in that country.\n\nThe office of Commissioners of Deeds in the state of Florida was first created on January 28, 1831, and at that time such commissioners could authenticate any document to be used in Florida. The commissioner was appointed to one particular U.S. state or a foreign country, and was required to actually live in that state/country. However, the Governor at that time requested that the office be abolished, because he claimed that the office had \"been used to facilitate fraudulent acts on some occasions.\" The office in its then-current form was abolished and replaced by the new form of \"Timeshare Commissioner of Deeds\" on April 30, 1998.\n\nIn the state of New Hampshire, Commissioners of Deeds are officers appointed by the Governor to a term of five years, who are authorized to administer oaths, take depositions and affidavits, take acknowledgments of deeds and other instruments of writing, for documents intended to be used or recorded in the state of New Hampshire. Such commissioners may not be residents of New Hampshire; however, they are authorized to act both within and without the state.\n\nIn the state of New York, a Commissioner of Deeds is an official with duties similar to that of a Notary Public. It is not a paid office. He or she must file an application and pass an examination; however, the application is filed with and appointment is made by a local city government rather than the state, as is the case with notaries public. Commissioners of deeds are normally appointed \"en masse\" in periodic acts of the city council.\n\nThe powers and rules and regulations are practically identical to those of a Notary Public, except that the Commissioner of Deeds' authority exists only within the limits of the city for which he or she is appointed, and does not extend to the area of the whole state. Despite the name, their powers are not restricted to certifying signatures on property transfers. A large number of political party officials and activists apply to become commissioners of deeds to certify signatures on nominating petitions in New York's notoriously complex elections process, as the application is cheaper and the registration process slightly less cumbersome than for a notary.\n\nNew York law also authorizes the appointment of commissioners to act in foreign jurisdictions, who are required to use a seal, bearing their name as commissioned, the words \"Commissioner of Deeds for the state of New York\", and the name of the city, county, country, or other political subdivision in which they have been appointed to act, to authenticate their official acts. Such commissioners are appointed to act in a particular city or county (within the United States), or in a particular foreign country, and they may only act within the region to which they are appointed. They are authorized to take acknowledgments to be used or read into evidence within the State of New York; to administer oaths (the law does not specify that the administration of such oaths is restricted to documents to be used in New York); and, if appointed to act in a foreign country outside the United States, to certify copies of any records or patents, such certified copies to be read into evidence or used within the State of New York. The executive powers in New York are currently not appointing any out-of-state commissioners.\n\nPrior to July 1, 2003, the executive powers of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania required that notaries public be residents of the state. Non-residents were appointed as Commissioners of Deeds, an essentially identical position. The law currently allows for any person maintaining a regular office located in Pennsylvania to be appointed as a Notary Public. Thus, the executive powers of the state are no longer accepting applications for commissioner appointments.\n\nThe Governor of West Virginia has the power to appoint any person, residing in West Virginia or in any other U.S. state or territory, to take acknowledgments of deeds or other writings intended to be used or recorded in West Virginia. These commissioners may also take affidavits and depositions to be used in West Virginia. The commissioner's term of office is ten years, unless sooner removed by the Governor. Such commissioners are required to enter into a bond in the penalty sum of $1,000, and must pay an application fee of $100. Every commissioner must provide an official stamp or embossing seal containing his or her name, residence, and the words \"Commissioner for West Virginia\".\n\nThe governor may biennially appoint and commission one or more individuals in other states, territories, or foreign countries or in the District of Columbia to serve as commissioner of deeds.\nAn appointment may be made only on the recommendation of the executive authority of the state, territory, or foreign country or of the District of Columbia. The term of office of a commissioner of deeds is two years.\n\nBefore performing the duties of office, a commissioner of deeds shall take and subscribe an oath to well and faithfully perform the duties of office under the laws of this state. The oath shall be:\n(1) taken before the clerk of a court of record in the city, county, or country in which the commissioner resides;\n(2) certified to by the clerk under the clerk's hand and seal of office; and\n(3) filed in the office of the secretary of state of this state.\n\nA commissioner of deeds shall provide a seal with a star of five points in the center and the words \"Commissioner of the State of Texas\" engraved on the seal. The seal shall be used to certify all official acts of the commissioner of deeds. An instrument that does not have the impression of the seal, or an act of the commissioner of deeds that is not certified by the impression of the seal, is not valid in this state. A commissioner of deeds has the same authority as a notary public to take acknowledgments and proofs of written instruments, to administer oaths, and to take depositions to be used or recorded in this state.\n"}
{"id": "20272516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20272516", "title": "Constitutional history of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Constitutional history of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Constitutional history of the People's Republic of China describes the evolution of its Constitutional system. The first Constitution of the People's Republic of China was promulgated in 1954. After two intervening versions enacted in 1975 and 1978, the current Constitution was promulgated in 1982. There were significant differences between each of these versions, and the 1982 Constitution has subsequently been amended several times. In addition, changing Constitutional conventions have led to significant changes in the structure of the Chinese government in the absence of changes in the text of the Constitution.\n\nDynastic China adopted a constitutional system oscillating between a feudal distribution of power and a centralistic autocracy. The idea of a constitutional monarchy, and a written constitution, became influential towards the end of the 19th century, inspired immediately in large parts by the precedent of the Meiji Constitution in Japan. The first attempt towards constitutionalism was during the Hundred Days' Reform (1898), but a coup by conservative monarchists loyal to Empress Dowager Cixi ended this effort. The same faction, however, eventually adopted a policy of transitioning towards constitutionalism. However, the first constitutional document was only published in 1908, and the first constitutional document with legal force (the \"Nineteen Covenants\") was not implemented until 1911, after the eruption of the Xinhai Revolution, which led to the demise of the Qing empire the next year.\n\nThe Republic of China established in 1912 was governed by a series of constitutional documents. Most of these, especially those authored by the Kuomintang, purported to reflect Sun Yat-sen's Three Principles of the People and Western norms. The first formal Constitution was enacted in 1946, when the Kuomintang-controlled government hastily declared an end to the \"political tutelage\" stage of Sun Yat-sen's three-stage theory of constitutional government amidst internal and external pressures. The Republic of China government progressively lost control of mainland China in the late 1940s to early 1950s, but the Constitution of the Republic of China, with amendments, is still the organic law of the government in Taiwan.\n\nIn 1949, the Chinese Civil War was turning decisively in favour of the Communist Party of China. In June, the Communist Party organised a \"Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference\" (CPPCC) to prepare for the establishment of a \"New Democracy\" regime to replace the Kuomintang-dominated Republic of China government.\n\nThe first meeting of the CPPCC opened on 21 September 1949, and was attended by the Communist Party along with eight aligned parties. The first CPPCC served in effect as a Constitutional Convention. The meeting approved the Common Program, which was effectively an interim Constitution, specifying the structure of the new government, and determining the name and symbols of the new state. It also elected leaders of the new central government, including Mao Zedong as Chairman of the Central People's Government. After the end of the conference, the People's Republic of China was proclaimed on 1 October 1949.\n\nThe People's Republic of China government functioned for the next five years under the Common Program, with a degree of democracy and inclusion that was not seen again in Chinese government to the present day. Among the provisions of the Common Program were those guaranteeing protection of private property (Article 3), \"uniting\" the bourgeoisie (Article 13), and assisting private enterprise (Article 30). The first People's Government, elected in 1949, included a significant number of representatives from parties other than the Communist Party.\n\nIn accordance with the Common Program, preparations soon began for convening the first National People's Congress and the drafting of the first permanent Constitution of the People's Republic of China. On 24 December 1952, a resolution was moved by Premier Zhou Enlai on behalf of the Communist Party of China at the 43rd meeting of the first CPPCC Standing Committee to draft the new, permanent, Constitution. The resolution was passed, and on 13 January 1953, the Central People's Government appointed a thirty-person drafting committee led by Mao Zedong.\n\nThe drafting process was dominated by the Communist Party, and was almost exclusively restricted to the Politburo. In March 1954, the draft Constitution was passed to the CPPCC and discussed in a national education campaign in the spring and summer of 1954. On 20 September 1954, exactly five years after the passage of the Common Program, the first meeting of the first National People's Congress unanimously approved the new Constitution. This version has subsequently been called the \"1954 Constitution\".\n\nThe 1954 Constitution included a preamble and 108 articles organised into four chapters. It specified a government structure remarkably similar to the current system. Chapter Two of the 1954 Constitution set up a system of government composed of six structural parts. The highest organ of government was the legislature, the National People's Congress. The executive was composed of the President and the State Council. Sub-national government was to be composed of people's congresses and people's committees of various levels. Autonomous ethnic areas would decide on their forms of government according to the wishes of the \"majority of the people\" in these areas. Finally, a hierarchy of courts headed by the Supreme People's Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate (which would investigate crimes by the government) formed the judicial system.\n\nChapter Three, Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens, guaranteed a relatively comprehensive set of human rights, but also imposed the duty to pay taxes, undertake national service, and to obey the law.\n\nLike the subsequent versions of the Constitution, the 1954 Constitution was not entrenched. It could be amended by the National People's Congress (Article 27(1)) by a special two-thirds majority (Article 29) without recourse to a referendum or other such mechanism.\n\nThe 1954 Constitution was intended to be a transitional constitution, to be revised after China developed into a socialist economy.\n\nHowever, the Chinese government functioned more or less as envisaged for only a short time. In 1957, the Anti-Rightist Movement marked the beginning of a series of political movements and purges during which the Constitution's protections against Party interference in the judiciary largely failed to be respected. These culminated in the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), a period in which the normal operation of government virtually ceased. In 1966, President Liu Shaoqi was political denounced, and from 1967 was placed under house arrest. After suffering two years of persecution, Liu died, unreported, in 1969, and the position of President was left unfilled. During this period, most government bodies around the country ceased operation; various levels of people's governments were replaced by Revolutionary Committees. Instead of (formally) by election, power passed via public denunciations and, in many cases, violent clashes.\n\nIn 1975, Mao Zedong and his supporters sought to formalise their power through the promulgation of a new Constitution. Under the 1975 Constitution, the office of the President (officially translated as \"Chairman\" during this period) was abolished, leaving Mao, as the Chairman of the Communist Party, as the sole power centre. Formal duties of the President as Head of State were to be performed by the Chairman of the National People's Congress (who was, at the time, Zhu De). The replacement of local government by Revolutionary Committees was also formalised. The Constitution was shorted to 30 articles, and the Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens was greatly shortened. Guarantees removed included the rights to property and privacy, freedom from political discrimination, freedom of movement, speech, and artistic freedom, among other human rights. Concurrently, the duty to pay taxes was also removed. The 1975 Constitution also saw a significant shift in tone compared to the 1954 Constitution, and saw the insertion of a significant number of ideological sloganeering provisions, including the claim that the nation was guided by \"Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought\".\n\nMao died in 1976, and the Gang of Four who had dominated Chinese politics were driven out of power by October 1976. The 1978 Constitution was promulgated in March 1978 under the chairmanship of Hua Guofeng. It contained 60 sections organised into four Chapters. In many ways, the 1978 Constitution was a compromise between the interim leadership's desire to consolidate power using Mao's moral authority, while responding to the popular desire to reverse the Leftists extremes of the previous period. On the one hand, the new Constitution in many places maintained the ideological tone of the 1975 Constitution, such as in Article 16 (\"State officials must diligently study Marxism, Leninism, and Mao Zedong Thought, serve the people whole-heartedly ...\") and Article 19 (\"The fundamental role of the Armed Forces is: [...] defending against destabilisation and invasion from Socio-Imperialism, Imperialism, and their running dogs\"). At the same time, the need for \"Socialist democracy\" was emphasised (Article 3), and the 1954 system of government was largely restored, including its significant checks on executive power.\n\nThe 1978 Constitution was again short-lived. In December 1978, the third plenary meeting of the 11th Communist Party Central Committee began a series of reviews and reforms that confirmed Deng Xiaoping as the new paramount leader of China, with reform-minded leaders supported by Deng filling the top echelon of government. As part of the Deng faction's political reform agenda, a fourth Constitution was promulgated on 4 December 1982. The 1982 Constitution was born in a political environment where the past, including Mao's \"errors\" and almost all of the Communist Party's policies from 1949, were relatively objectively re-examined, and the country's future, including the pursuit of market economic reforms, was being openly debated. As a result, the 1982 Constitution returned the government structure to broadly that set up in 1954, with the Presidency restored. The Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens were greatly expanded, and elevated to Chapter Two, ahead of the provisions for the structure of the government. The 1982 Constitution was subsequently amended in 1988, 1993, 1999, 2004 and 2018, generally modifying the Constitution in accordance with economic and political reforms over that period. The current compilation dates from 11 March 2018.\n\nThe system of government set up under the 1982 Constitution has undergone some changes, largely due to the evolution of Constitutional conventions rather than textual amendments. The most significant of these occurred in 1989-1993. As drafted, the 1982 Constitution contemplated that the power of the state would be distributed amongst the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, the Premier of the State Council, and the Chairman of the Central Military Commission. The President, as nominal head of state, would be a symbolic role with little substantive power. Such was the arrangement until 1989. During the 1989 Tiananmen Square Protests, the President, Yang Shangkun, also the Vice chairman of Central Military Commission, used his formal powers under the Constitution to deploy troops to Beijing in support of the state of emergency declared by the Premier Li Peng, and colluded in the subsequent violent crackdown in Beijing, against the wishes of Zhao Ziyang, the General Secretary of the Party. In a reaction against the conflict between the independent power centres, at the expiration of Deng's term, the new General Secretary, Jiang Zemin, also became Chairman of the Central Military Commission, and later took on the position of the President as well. In this way, the centres of power were unified. This convention has continued to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "9808688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9808688", "title": "Course of employment", "text": "Course of employment\n\nCourse of employment is a legal consideration of all circumstances which may occur in the performance of a person's job, especially during a period of time where specific objectives are given by the employer to the employee. Black's Law Dictionary (2nd Pocket ed. 2001) pg. 154.\n\nKey examples of this consideration under US law can include tort liability or ownership of intellectual property. If an employee is driving a motor vehicle during working hours and harms the person or property of another, a court would consider course of employment to determine if the employer had vicarious liability for the harm. Extreme examples would likely find the employer is liable for a truck driver on his assigned route but not for a secretary picking up her child from day care.\n\nSimilarly the employer would likely own the copyright rights to a song written by an employee who was hired as a composer, but not if the employee was hired as an accountant.\n"}
{"id": "11409000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11409000", "title": "Court costs", "text": "Court costs\n\nCourt costs (also called law-costs) are the costs of handling a case, which, depending on legal rules, may or may not include the costs of the various parties in a lawsuit in addition to the costs of the court itself. In the United States, \"court costs\" (such as filing fees, copying and postage) are differentiated from attorney's fees, which are the hourly rates paid to attorneys for their work in a case. Court costs can reach very high amounts, often far beyond the actual monetary worth of a case. Cases are known in which one party won the case, but lost more than the monetary worth in court costs. Court costs may be awarded to one or both parties in a lawsuit, or they may be waived.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada, the losing side is usually ordered to pay the winning side's costs. This acts as a significant disincentive to bringing forward court cases. Usually, the winning party is not able to recover from the losing party the full amount of his or her own solicitor's (attorney's) costs, and has to pay the shortfall out of his or her own pocket. The loser pays principle does not apply to the United States legal system, although a separate system does operate there. In cases in the federal court system, Title 28, section 1920 of the United States Code, provides:\n\nA judge or clerk of any court of the United States may tax as costs the following:\n(1) Fees of the clerk and marshal;\n(2) Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case;\n(3) Fees and disbursements for printing and witnesses;\n(4) Fees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case;\n(5) Docket fees under section 1923 of this title;\n(6) Compensation of court appointed experts, compensation of interpreters, and salaries, fees, expenses, and costs of special interpretation services under section 1828 of this title.\nA bill of costs shall be filed in the case and, upon allowance, included in the judgment or decree.\n\n"}
{"id": "56565009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56565009", "title": "Denise Harper Angel", "text": "Denise Harper Angel\n\nDenise Harper Angel (born November 24, 1953) is an American politician who has served in the Kentucky Senate from the 35th district since 2005.\n"}
{"id": "6057975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6057975", "title": "Depletion (accounting)", "text": "Depletion (accounting)\n\nDepletion is an accounting and tax concept used most often in mining, timber, petroleum, or other similar industries. The depletion deduction allows an owner or operator to account for the reduction of a product's reserves. Depletion is similar to depreciation in that it is a cost recovery system for accounting and tax reporting. \n\nDepletion, for both accounting purposes and United States tax purposes, is a method of recording the gradual expense or use of natural resources over time. Depletion is the using up of natural resources by mining, quarrying, drilling, or felling.\n\nAccording to the IRS Newswire, over 50 percent of oil and gas extraction businesses use cost depletion to figure their depletion deduction. Mineral property includes oil and gas wells, mines, and other natural deposits (including geothermal deposits). For that purpose, property is each separate interest businesses own in each mineral deposit in each separate tract or parcel of land. Businesses can treat two or more separate interests as one property or as separate properties.\n\nFor tax purposes, the two types of depletion are percentage depletion and cost depletion.\nFor mineral property, one generally must use the method that gives you the larger deduction. For standing timber, one must use cost depletion.\n\nTo figure percentage depletion, one multiplies a certain percentage, specified for each mineral, by gross income from the property during the tax year. The rates to be used and other conditions and qualifications for oil and gas wells are discussed below under \"Independent Producers and Royalty Owners\" and under \"Natural Gas Wells\". Rates and other rules for percentage depletion of other specific minerals are found later in \"Mines and Geothermal Deposits\".\n\nCost depletion is an accounting method by which costs of natural resources are allocated to depletion over the period that make up the life of the asset. Cost depletion is computed by estimating the total quantity of mineral or other resources acquired and assigning a proportionate amount of the total resource cost to the quantity extracted in the period. For example, if Big Texas Oil, Co. discovers a large reserve of oil, the company has estimated the oil well will produce 200,000 barrels of oil. The company invests $100,000 to extract the oil and extracts 10,000 barrels the first year. Therefore, the depletion deduction is $5,000 ($100,000 X 10,000/200,000).\n\nCost depletion for tax purposes may be completely different from cost depletion for accounting purposes:\n\nAdjusted basis is the basis at end of year adjusted for prior years depletion in cost or percentage. It automatically allows for adjustments to the basis during the taxable year.\n\nBy using the units remaining at the end of the year, the adjustment automatically allows for revised estimates of the reserves.\n\nDepletion is based upon sales and not production. Units are considered sold in the year the proceeds are taxable under the taxpayer's accounting method.\n\nReserves generally include proven developed reserves and \"probable\" or \"prospective\" reserves if there is reasonable evidence to have believed that such quantities existed at that time.\n\nIf producer X has capitalized costs on property A of $40,000, originally consisting of the lease bonus, capitalized exploration costs, and some capitalized carrying costs, and the lease has been producing for several years and during this time, X has claimed $10,000 of allowable depletion. In 2009, X's share of production sold was 40,000 barrels and an engineer's report indicated that 160,000 barrels could be recovered after December 31, 2009.\n\nThe calculation of cost depletion for this lease would be as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28204056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28204056", "title": "Dimitrov Constitution", "text": "Dimitrov Constitution\n\nThe Dimitrov Constitution was the second Constitution of Bulgaria, in effect from 1947 to 1971. It formed the legal basis for Communist rule in Bulgaria.\n\nGeorgi Dimitrov, after whom the document is named, guided the framing of the 1947 constitution on the model of the 1936 Soviet Constitution. The Dimitrov Constitution guaranteed citizens equality before the law; freedom from discrimination; a universal welfare system; freedom of speech, the press, and assembly; and inviolability of person, domicile, and correspondence. But those rights were qualified by a clause prohibiting activity that would jeopardize the attainments of \"the national revolution of 9 September 1944.\" Citizens were guaranteed employment but required to work in a socially useful capacity. The constitution also prescribed a planned national economy. Private property was allowed, if its possession was not \"to the detriment of the public good.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14547809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14547809", "title": "ESPN Inc.", "text": "ESPN Inc.\n\nESPN Inc. is an American sports media conglomerate based in Bristol, Connecticut. Jointly owned by Disney Media Networks, a division of The Walt Disney Company (which owns a 80% majority share) and Hearst Communications (which owns a 20% minority share), it owns various sports broadcasting operations, including cable channels (such as the titular ESPN), a sports radio network, an accompanying website, and other assets.\n\nESPN markets itself as the \"Worldwide Leader in Sports\". Most programming on ESPN networks consist of live or tape-delayed sporting events, sports news programming, sports talk shows, and original series and documentaries.\n\nESPN Inc. was founded in 1979 by Bill Rasmussen attempting to broadcast Connecticut sports over an \"Entertainment and Sports Programming Network\" cable channel. Getty Oil, Anheuser-Busch and the NCAA all got involved with the new cable channel. In 1984, American television network ABC purchased a stake in the company. ABC merged with Capital Cities Communications. The combined company was purchased by The Walt Disney Company in 1996. In 2018, ESPN launched a new streaming service called ESPN+.\n\nShortly after being terminated as World Hockey Association's New England Whalers communications director, Rasmussen conceived in May 1978 of a plan to product Connecticut sports events for Connecticut cable systems. With his son, Scott, they had move beyond that considering a national sports channel doable. RCA had an underused satellite thus pushing for customers. Finding it cheaper to rent a satellite transponder full-time instead of 5 hours a day, they changed their plans to a national channel.\n\nBill Rasmussen got the NCAA on February 7, 1979 in principal to grant ESPN broadcast rights for its sports. The next day at the Texas Cable Show, he was able to get cable companies on board. An advertising contract with Anheuser-Busch was in talk at that time. Getty Oil came on board as its major source of capital. In 1979, Rasummen purchased the first acre for ESPN's headquarters in Bristol, Conn. With a reasonable payment program in July 1979, Rasmussen leased RCA's Satcom 1 transponder using his credit card. Anheuser-Busch became a major sponsor signing a $1.4 million ad contract, a record at the time. Getty Oil invested $10 million into ESPN getting a controlling stake in 1979.\n\nOn September 7, 1979, ESPN cable channel went on the air with 24-hours of programming on the weekends and limited hours during the week. 625 cable system affiliates were signed up at launch and they had 1 million household subscribed total (out of 20 million households with cable). The channel's first game featured the Milwaukee Schlitzes and the Kentucky Bourbons slow-pitch world series softball.\n\nIn 1980, the company was named in a Texas divorce filing. Ground breaking for its headquarters took place. Full-time broadcasting began in September 1980. Additional programming at the time included weekly boxing matches.\n\nNBC Sports President Chet Simmons was hired to help run the cable channel. Simmons and Rasmussen were at odds with Getty Oil executives siding with Simmons. At the end of 1980, Rasmussen was removed as company president by Getty Oil executive for ESPN, Stuart Evey, relegating him to a ceremonial role. Rasmussen left in 1981 and sold his remaining stock in 1984.\n\nInvesting another $15 million into the company and no profits expected any time soon, Getty used management consultant McKinsey & Co. to assess ESPN's future. McKinsey's lead consultant was Roger Werner, who figured with another $120 million and five years ESPN would become a profit maker. Werner soon was hired by ESPN as vice-president of finance, administration, and planning and developed a new business plan. Werner developed a new revenue source beyond advertising by initiating revolutionary affiliate fees paid by the cable operators by number of subscribers starting at 6 cents. Between CBS Cable folding in October 1982 and the new CEO, Bill Grimes, they convince most of the reluctant cable providers to pay. By 1985, the fee was 10 cents.\n\nESPN was the largest cable channel by the end of 1983 with 28.5 million households. Also in 1983, the company began distributing programming outside the US. ABC, Inc. purchased in January 1984 a 14% holding in the company followed by a June purchased of a controlling interest. Capital Cities Communications, Inc. bought ABC in early 1986 to form Capital Cities/ABC Inc. In 1988, Werner became ESPN's president and CEO.\n\nESPN started out expanding into other nations and additional channels. The ESPN International unit was formed in 1988 to start channels in other nations beginning with ESPN Latin America in 1989. In 1992, ESPN Asia was launched. ESPN partnered with TF1 and Canal+ for a made over Eurosport to enter Europe.\n\nRJR Nabisco sold its 20 percent stake in ESPN to the Hearst Corporation. Werner resigned as CEO and president in October 1990 for another sports CEO job. Steve Bornstein replaced him in the CEO post moving up from the second position of executive vice-president in charge of programming and production.\n\nWith ABC Radio Network, the company started ESPN Radio Network in 1991 with programming 16 hours per week. Ohlmeyer Communications' sports programming division was purchased in March 1993. ESPN launched ESPN2 on October 1, 1993 at 7:30 PM. The channel at the time was targeting those age 18-34. In 1994, ESPN acquired Creative Sports and from Dow Jones an 80 percent stake in SportsTicker.\n\nESPN purchased for $175 million Classic Sports Network in 1997.\n\nIn 2006, ESPN acquired the North American Sports Network (NASN), later re-branded as ESPN America on February 1, 2009, Super Bowl Sunday.\n\nIn August 2016, Disney purchased a 1/3 stake in BAMTech for $1 billion from MLB Advanced Media with the option to purchase a majority share, which it later exercised now owning 75% . Disney purchased the stake to first develop an ESPN subscription streaming service, later named ESPN+. The service would not include any current ESPN channel or its content, but tap BAMTech licensed rights and ESPN college rights.\n\n\n\n\nUnder the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission's rules regarding foreign broadcasters, ESPN has been prohibited from acquiring majority ownership of any channel operating in Canada. Instead, ESPN partnered with several Canadian firms to form a privately held consortium named NetStar Communications in 1995, which then acquired the sports networks TSN and RDS. These Canadian partners then sold their shares in 2001 to CTV Inc. (now Bell Media). ESPN continues to own 20 percent of what is now CTV Specialty Television while Bell Media owns the remaining 80 percent.\n\nThe sports channels owned by the CTV Specialty Television subsidiary:\n\nThrough CTV Specialty Television, ESPN also has an indirect interest in several channels operated in partnership with Discovery Communications, but ESPN is not believed to be directly involved with these operations.\n\nIn 2006, ESPN acquired the North American Sports Network (NASN), later re-branded as ESPN America in 2008. ESPN launched a domestic channel in the United Kingdom after acquiring a portion of the local rights package to the Premier League alongside Sky Sports, replacing the collapsing Setanta Sports. The contract lasted from the 2009-10 season to the 2012-13 season. However, by 2012, the network had begun to lose many of its key sports rights, including the Premier League, to BT Group.\n\nOn January 25, 2013, ESPN reached a deal to sell its television business in the United Kingdom and Ireland, including ESPN America's programming rights, to BT Group. The ESPN channel in the United Kingdom was placed under the control of BT Sport, while ESPN Classic and ESPN America were shut down. ESPN continues to operate digital properties targeting the United Kingdom, including its ESPN.co.uk, ESPN FC, ESPNcricinfo, and ESPNscrum websites. Two years later, ESPN reached a long-term deal with BT Sport for British rights to ESPN original programming and international event rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2928464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2928464", "title": "Election agent", "text": "Election agent\n\nIn elections in the United Kingdom, as well as in certain other similar political systems such as India's, an election agent is the person legally responsible for the conduct of a candidate's political campaign and to whom election material is sent to by those running the election. In elections in the United Kingdom a candidate may be his or her own election agent. The Electoral Commission provides periodic guidance for candidates and agents of which the latest is for the 2017 British general election.\n\nIn Canada and most of Canada's provinces, an election agent is legally referred to as an official agent.\n\nElection agents are responsible for sanctioning all expenditure on the candidate's campaign, for maintaining the accuracy of and submitting to the returning officer the candidate's expenses and other documents, as well as deciding whether to contest the result of a count. Agents are also permitted to oversee the polling and counting of votes to ensure the accuracy and impartiality of the election, and may appoint polling and counting agents to assist them in these tasks. The number of polling and counting agents that can be appointed is determined by the returning officer of the election and they must be appointed by a set date laid out in the timetable of the election.\n\nAgents must usually have reached the age of majority and not be acting as a clerk or officer to the returning officer in the given election. Where a candidate does not nominate an agent, they are their own agent.\n\nThe larger parties typically pay their election agents, and the role is gradually becoming a professional one as the similar (but not equivalent) role of campaign managers is in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2922430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922430", "title": "Flow-through entity", "text": "Flow-through entity\n\nA flow-through entity (FTE) is a legal entity where income \"flows through\" to investors or owners; that is, the income of the entity is treated as the income of the investors or owners. Flow-through entities are also known as pass-through entities or fiscally-transparent entities. Depending on the local tax regulations, this structure can avoid dividend tax and double taxation because only owners or investors are taxed on the revenue. Technically, for tax purposes, flow-through entities are considered \"non-entities\" because they are not taxed; rather, taxation \"flows-through\" to another tax return.\n\nCommon types of FTEs are general partnerships, limited partnerships and limited liability partnerships. In the United States, additional types of FTE include S corporations, income trusts and limited liability companies.\n\nMost countries require an FTE (or its owners) to file an annual return reporting the shares of income allocated to owners, and to provide each owner with a statement of allocated income to enable owners to report their shares of income on their own tax returns. In the United States, the statement of allocated income is known as form K-1 (or Schedule K-1).\n\nAccording to International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD) a pass-through entity or flow-through entity (FTE) is a \"non-taxable entity, such as a partnership, under which the income or expense is generally regarded as income or expense of the participants under the transparency principle.\" FTEs are based on conduit theory or pipeline theory which is defined as a \"method of integrating the taxation at the entity and participator level under which income or deductions flow through from the entity to its participators. The entity is in effect regarded as an extension of the participators. A partnership is generally taxed according to the conduit system. The conduit system may be contrasted with the classical system.\"\n\nIn the United States, pass-through entities include \"sole proprietorships, partnerships and S corporations that ... pay taxes at the individual rate of their owners\" as well as income trusts and limited liability companies.\n\nAccording to \"CNN Money\", in the United States, most \"businesses are set up as pass-throughs, not corporations\" which \"means their profits are passed through to the owners, shareholders and partners, who pay tax on them on their personal returns under ordinary income tax rates.\" In other words pass-through businesses are not \"taxed like corporations and instead pay taxes on business income as if it were personal income.\"\n\nA sole proprietor is \"someone who owns an unincorporated business by himself or herself.\" However, if you are the sole member of a domestic limited liability company (LLC), you are not a sole proprietor if you elect to treat the LLC as a corporation. In the United States, sole proprietors \"must report all business income or losses on [their] personal income tax return; the business itself is not taxed separately. The IRS refers to this as \"pass-through\" taxation, because business profits pass through the business to be taxed on your personal tax return.\n\nWhile an S corporation shareholders are subject to tax on their \"pro rata shares of income\" based on their shareholdings in the S corporation which is not itself taxed.\n\nFTEs included in the 2009 \"IBFD International Tax Glossary\" included the \"Bond and Bond Option Sales Strategy\" (BOSS) transaction] referring to an \"investment strategy developed in the United States to generate tax losses without a corresponding economic loss. The transaction involves the use of a partnership or other flow-through entity that makes an investment in a foreign corporation that is capitalized for the purpose of carrying out the transaction. Variants of Boss Transactions are referred to as Son of Boss Transactions.\n\nAccording to a report published by Brookings in May 2017, in the early 1980s almost all business income in the United States was generated by C corporations. In terms of Income tax in the United States C corporations are taxed separately from their owners.\n\nIn December 2004 the \"Financial Asset Securitization Investment\" (FASIT) which was a flow-through entity formed in the United States, was repealed. FASIT was an investment instrument in \"non-mortgage receivable pools such as credit card receivables, automobile loans, construction loans, and finance leases.\" FASITS in existence on October 24, 2004 were exempted from the repeal.\n\nBy 2005 the US Internal Revenue Service viewed Son of Boss as \"an abusive transaction aggressively marketed in the late 1990s and 2000 primarily to wealthy individuals.\" The IRS began a \"settlement initiative\" which \"required taxpayers to concede 100 percent of the claimed tax losses and pay a penalty of either 10 percent or 20 percent unless they previously disclosed the transactions to the IRS.\"\n\nBy 2013, \"only 44 percent of the income of business owners was earned through C-corporations.\"\n\nStarting in 2013, Kansas Governor Sam Brownback undertook what was described by \"The Atlantic\" in a June 2017 article as the United States' \"most aggressive experiment in conservative economic policy\". From 2013 to 2017, 300,000 businesses as pass-through income entities, benefited from the complete tax exemption. [T]ens of thousands of Kansans were able to \"claim their wages and salaries as income from a business rather than from employment.\" Brownback's tax overhaul created pass-through income tax exemptions as well as trimming income tax, eliminating some corporate taxes. From 2013 to 2017, Kansas experienced budget shortfalls culminating in a $350 million budget shortfall in February 2017, which \"threatened the viability of [the state's] schools and infrastructure\". In response, in June 2017, the extreme tax cuts were rolled back to 2013 levels.\n\nBy 2017, pass-through businesses earned the \"majority of business income\" in the United States and \"owners of S-corporations and partnerships now earn about half of all income from businesses.\"\n\nAccording to a September 2017 article in the \"New York Times\", about \"95 percent of companies in the United States are structured as pass-through entities, generating the bulk of the government’s tax revenues.\"\n\nOn December 2, 2017 the U.S. Senate passed a tax overhaul bill as part of the proposed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that reduced taxes on pass-through business income by allowing them to \"deduct 23% of their income\". The Senate added features to the bill to prevent abuse. In a November article, the \"New York Times\" reported that the tax bill would \"[r]educe the pass-through tax rate to 25% regardless of income level. Since 95% of businesses are incorporated as pass-through entities. Examples include \"sole proprietorships, partnerships and S corporations that currently pay taxes at the individual rate of their owners.\" whose owners pay taxes as if it were personal income at a much lower rate. This represents a large tax cut for owners that is capital as opposed to labor. Approximately the largest 2% of pass-through businesses represent 40% of pass-through income and today are taxed at 39.6%, the top individual rate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28919249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28919249", "title": "Graphisoft EcoDesigner", "text": "Graphisoft EcoDesigner\n\nGraphisoft EcoDesigner is an energy evaluation tool for architects – an add-on software for ArchiCAD, Graphisoft's BIM application – which aims to provide information about a building's energy performance at the early design phases giving fast feedback for architects on the energy efficiency and sustainability of certain design alternatives.\n\nWith EcoDesigner, architects can get results about the energy consumption, Carbon footprint and the monthly energy balance in three steps:\n\n"}
{"id": "21551677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21551677", "title": "Green Energy Act 2009", "text": "Green Energy Act 2009\n\nThe Ontario Green Energy Act (GEA), formally the Green Energy and Green Economy Act, 2009, introduced in the Ontario legislature on February 23, 2009, is intended to expand renewable energy production, encourage energy conservation and create green jobs. Among many clauses, the GEA is best known for creating a number of feed-in tariff rates for different types of energy sources. Notable among these is the microFIT program for small non-commercial systems under 10 kilowatts, and FIT, the larger commercial version which covers a number of project types with sizes into the megawatts.\n\nThe GEA has been highly controversial within Ontario for the high initial tariff, up to 80.2 cents/kWh for small systems under microFIT. It has also been controversial outside Ontario due to its \"made in Ontario\" clauses which demand a certain amount of Ontario labour and manufacturing input in order to receive the tariff rates. Changes to the program and rates, some of them applied retroactively, had added confusion and complaints about the way the program is managed. The GEA was a major issue during the 2011 provincial elections, with the PC party threatening to cancel it outright if elected, while the Liberals supporting it as a primary plank of their re-election platform.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the GEA, Ontario had enacted a number of different programs to introduce renewable energy or promote conservation. These included the Energy Conservation Leadership Act, the Energy Efficiency Act and of particular note, November 2006's Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program. The Standard Offer, also known as SOP or RESOP for short, introduced a number of fixed 20-year feed-in tariffs for hydro, wind, solar (PV) and biomass projects. RESOP tariffs were relatively low, 42 cents/kWh for PV and 11 cents/kWh for other forms of energy. At the time, RESOP was named North America's first true feed-in tariff program.\n\nIn practice, it was found that the RESOP program had significant administrative overhead that eroded the value of the program. In order to connect a generation project, the provider had to not only meet expected requirements for the equipment, but also had to apply to various agencies and levels of government for permission to connect to the grid. This process was not streamlined, and often required hundreds of pages of documentation to be submitted to each organization, in the proper sequence. Certain areas of the Ontario distribution grid were also placed off-limits for development, due to load considerations. Even then, there were stakeholders at the municipal level that could block development at any time as part of local building codes.\n\nDue to the presence of fixed costs, including the administrative overhead, RESOP favoured large projects which could distribute these costs. It proved particularly successful for wind power developments, with almost 64% of the RESOP developments being wind, 28% biomass, and the rest a mix of hydro and a tiny amount of solar.\n\nRESOP included a built-in two-year review process that started in 2008. During this period, the worldwide industry was also exploring a number of different ways to implement incentive programs. The main contenders were the feed-in tariff system, like RESOP, and emissions-trading systems like the UK's Renewable Obligation or New Jersey's Solar Renewable Energy Certificate. In 2008, Ernst & Young published \"Renewable energy country attractiveness indices for the first quarter of 2008\", which demonstrated that Germany's FIT program was far more successful, delivering more power at lower costs. An earlier report from UC Berkeley demonstrated that job creation with renewables was far higher than fossil fuels, another argument in favour of the German-style program, which was then considered a great success.\n\nWith the success of FIT programs, and in response to RESOP issues, a number of stakeholders suggested an expansion of the program with higher rates and various changes to the connection process to simplify the workload. In particular, a number of proposals suggested adding additional classes for very small systems that would have minimal impact on the grid that could be given an express application process and pre-authorized access to connect. These systems would also be given much higher tariffs, in order to offset basic implementation details, like metering, that are often a fixed cost no matter the project size.\n\nThe GEA effort was led by George Smitherman, the Minister of Energy and Infrastructure. It was claimed that the bill will help the government ensure the province’s future by: \n\nAmong the key features of the Act are the following:\n\nSeveral non-profit organizations have been active in supporting the implementation of the Green Energy Act with customized wikis to assist consumers and service providers, including SWITCH and OurPower (see Further Reading).\n\nMicroFIT is a renewable energy microgeneration program (less than 10 kW) in the Province of Ontario, launched in October 2009 following the Green Energy Act 2009, alongside feed-in tariff (FIT) to provide incentives for landowners to generate wind, solar, hydroelectric or other clean energy to sell to the electrical grid. Most applications for microFIT generation have been for solar energy.\n\nBy December 16, 2009, microFIT issued its first 700 contracts.\n\nMany solar photovoltaic companies have become involved in microFIT installations; the solar panels are also suitable for schools and places of worship. The projects benefit home, farm or business owners by revenue generation, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and approved applicants are guaranteed to receive revenue for twenty years. The Green Energy Act aims to create 50,000 new green-collar jobs by 2012.\n\nAccording to the Ontario Power Authority, homeowners generating electricity receive a following share of contract price per kilowatt-hour:\n\nInstallation costs often exceed $50,000 CAN, and only about 9,000 projects have connected to the grid by late 2011 out of over 42,000 applicants. Concerns over islanding, lack of capacity and other problems have resulted in delays for many homeowners in installation, as connection points in some places have not been implemented. Cuts to pay rates generated further controversy.\n\nThe signing of the GEA has corresponded with a dramatic increase in the Provincial Adjustment (now called the Global Adjustment). This is the cost added to the market price of electricity in Ontario. The Global Adjustment is made up of several different cost buckets, but the biggest one is guaranteed energy rates for generators. This is the difference between the rates that were guaranteed to generators by the provincial government, and the wholesale electricity rate which they are paid each month. In recent years, the wholesale rate has ranged between 1 and 3 cents per kWh. However, a June 2012 report by Bridgepoint Group Ltd. claimed most of this cost increase has been coincidental, rather than attributable to the fixed price for renewable energy. Likewise, the Ontario Energy Board claimed in April 2012 that the highest generator of the increased cost of electricity is guaranteed payments to nuclear generators, followed, by gas, coal, and hydro generation. In March 2011, the Ontario Government claimed that the combined cost of new renewable and conservation measures had been shown to account for only about 3% of total electricity cost in Ontario, although it was acknowledged that amount will rise as more green energy comes on line in future years.\n\nAlthough the Green Energy Act promised to create 50,000 jobs, the Liberals admitted in 2013 that the act had only created 31,000 jobs. Critics charge that even confirming this number is problematic because the large majority are \"indirect\" as opposed to \"direct\" employment. However, a 2011 report by Jim McCarter, Ontario's Auditor General, found that a large majority of these jobs were in construction and would only exist for no more than three years. In addition, McCarter's report also cited controversial reports from other countries which indicate \"that for each job created through renewable energy programs, about two to four jobs are often lost in other sectors of the economy because of higher electricity prices\" which has led critics to charge that the Green Energy Act has actually resulted in a net-loss of employment.\n\nA 2013 study by the conservative Fraser Institute stated that \"wind power tends to be produced at times when it is least needed\", and stated that:\n\nThe price of exports is determined by allowing electricity producers to bid on export offers at the price at which they are willing to produce it.\n\nThe quality of the \"green\" manufacturing jobs created in Ontario has also been questioned. Writing in the \"National Post\", John Ivison noted in 2011 that Eclipsall Energy Corp, a newly created company in Scarborough, Ontario, that was touted by Premier Dalton McGuinty, only pays its workers 20% above minimum wage and that its manufacturing facility simply \"assemble[s] glass and solar cells imported from Asia\" (which allows it to qualify for the local content rules).\n\nIn May 2013, Ontario Energy Minister Bob Chiarelli announced that the made-in-Ontario content requirements for wind and solar projects would be scrapped, after the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruled that they were a violation of WTO regulations.\n\nIn June 2013, Chiarelli announced that the province's future Feed-in-Tariff contacts will now be limited to smaller projects (less than 500 kW) and that a cap of 900 MW of additional capacity will be set for deployment by 2018. For larger projects, a competitive bidding system will be created, although projects that have already been contracted will not be affected by these changes.\n\nIn December 2013, Chiarelli announced that the remaining local content requirements which had already been reduced, would be removed entirely some time in 2014 in order to comply with the WTO decision. As a result, concerns have been expressed that this will lead to the loss of \"green\" manufacturing jobs in Ontario. In February 2014, Jeff Garrah, CEO of Kingston’s Economic Development Commission (KEDCO), cited the removal of the local content requirements as the reason for the bankruptcy of Centennial Global Technology Inc., which in November 2013 had been described as Canada's \"leading national solar panel distributor\". It was reported that the removal of the local content rules had effectively \"pull[ed] the plug on local production\". Describing the Green Energy Act as \"an ongoing soap opera\", Garrah stated that municipalities across Ontario have become dismayed with how its solar and wind power provisions have been implemented.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347725", "title": "Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907", "text": "Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907\n\nThe Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 are a series of international treaties and declarations negotiated at two international peace conferences at The Hague in the Netherlands. Along with the Geneva Conventions, the Hague Conventions were among the first formal statements of the laws of war and war crimes in the body of secular international law. A third conference was planned for 1914 and later rescheduled for 1915, but it did not take place due to the start of World War I.\n\nThe Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 were the first multilateral treaties that addressed the conduct of warfare and were largely based on the Lieber Code, which was signed and issued by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln to the Union Forces of the United States on 24 April 1863, during the American Civil War. The Lieber Code was the first official comprehensive codified law that set out regulations for behavior in times of martial law; protection of civilians and civilian property and punishment of transgression; deserters, prisoners of war, hostages, and pillaging; partisans; spies; truces and prisoner exchange; parole of former rebel troops; the conditions of any armistice, and respect for human life; assassination and murder of soldiers or citizens in hostile territory; and the status of individuals engaged in a state of civil war against the government. As such, the code was widely regarded as the best summary of the first customary laws and customs of war in the 19th century and was welcomed and adopted by military establishments of other nations. The 1874 Brussels Declaration (which was never adopted by all major nations) listed 56 articles that drew inspiration from the Lieber Code. Much of the regulations in the Hague Conventions were borrowed heavily from the Lieber Code.\n\nBoth conferences included negotiations concerning disarmament, the laws of war and war crimes. A major effort in both conferences was the creation of a binding international court for compulsory arbitration to settle international disputes, which was considered necessary to replace the institution of war. This effort, however, failed at both conferences; instead a voluntary forum for arbitration, the Permanent Court of Arbitration, was established. Most of the countries present, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, France, China, and Persia, favored a process for binding international arbitration, but the provision was vetoed by a few countries, led by Germany.\n\nThe First Hague Conference came from a proposal on 24 August 1898 by Russian Tsar Nicholas II. Nicholas and Count Mikhail Nikolayevich Muravyov, his foreign minister, were instrumental in initiating the conference. The conference opened on 18 May 1899, the Tsar's birthday. The treaties, declarations, and final act of the conference were signed on 29 July of that year, and they entered into force on 4 September 1900. What is referred to as the Hague Convention of 1899 consisted of three main treaties and three additional declarations:\n\nThe Second Hague Conference, in 1907, resulted in conventions containing only few major advancements from the 1899 Convention. However, the meeting of major powers did prefigure later 20th-century attempts at international cooperation.\n\nThe second conference was called at the suggestion of U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt in 1904, but it was postponed because of the war between Russia and Japan. The Second Peace Conference was held from 15 June to 18 October 1907. The intent of the conference was to expand upon the 1899 Hague Convention by modifying some parts and adding new topics; in particular, the 1907 conference had an increased focus on naval warfare. The British attempted to secure limitation of armaments, but these efforts were defeated by the other powers, led by Germany, which feared a British attempt to stop the growth of the German fleet. Germany also rejected proposals for compulsory arbitration. However, the conference did enlarge the machinery for voluntary arbitration and established conventions regulating the collection of debts, rules of war, and the rights and obligations of neutrals.\n\nThe treaties, declarations, and final act of the Second Conference were signed on 18 October 1907; they entered into force on 26 January 1910. The 1907 Convention consists of thirteen treaties—of which twelve were ratified and entered into force—and one declaration:\n\nThe Brazilian delegation was led by Ruy Barbosa, whose contributions are seen today by some analysts as essential for the defense of the principle of legal equality of nations. The British delegation included Sir Edward Fry, Sir Ernest Satow, the 11th Lord Reay (Donald James Mackay) and Sir Henry Howard as delegates, and Eyre Crowe as a technical delegate. The Russian delegation was led by Friedrich Martens. The Uruguayan delegation was led by José Batlle y Ordóñez, a defender of the idea of compulsory arbitration.With Louis Renault and Léon Bourgeois, Paul Henri d'Estournelles de Constant was a member of the French delegation for both the 1899 and 1907 delegations. He later won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1909 for his efforts.\n\nThough not negotiated in The Hague, the Geneva Protocol to the Hague Conventions is considered an addition to the Conventions. Signed on 17 June 1925 and entering into force on 8 February 1928, its single article permanently bans the use of all forms of chemical and biological warfare. The protocol grew out of the increasing public outcry against chemical warfare following the use of mustard gas and similar agents in World War I, and fears that chemical and biological warfare could lead to horrific consequences in any future war. The protocol has since been augmented by the Biological Weapons Convention (1972) and the Chemical Weapons Convention (1993).\n\nMany of the rules laid down at the Hague Conventions were violated in World War I. The German invasion of Belgium, for instance, was a violation of Convention (III) of 1907, which states that hostilities must not commence without explicit warning. Poison gas was introduced and used by all major belligerents throughout the war, in violation of the Declaration (IV, 2) of 1899 and Convention (IV) of 1907, which explicitly forbade the use of \"poison or poisoned weapons\".\n\nWriting in 1918, the German international law scholar and neo-Kantian pacifist Walther Schücking called the assemblies the \"international union of Hague conferences\". Schücking saw the Hague conferences as a nucleus of a future international federation that was to meet at regular intervals to administer justice and develop international law procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes, asserting that \"a definite political union of the states of the world has been created with the First and Second Conferences\".\n\nAfter World War II, the judges of the military tribunal of the Trial of German Major War Criminals at Nuremberg Trials found that by 1939, the rules laid down in the 1907 Hague Convention were recognised by all civilised nations and were regarded as declaratory of the laws and customs of war. Under this post-war decision, a country did not have to have ratified the 1907 Hague Convention in order to be bound by them.\n\nAlthough their contents have largely been superseded by other treaties, the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 continue to stand as symbols of the need for restrictions on war and the desirability of avoiding it altogether. Since 2000, Convention (I) of 1907 on the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes has been ratified by 20 additional states.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12850023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12850023", "title": "Harmonisation of law", "text": "Harmonisation of law\n\nIn relation to the European Union, harmonisation of law (or simply harmonisation) is the process of creating common standards across the internal market.\n\nThough each EU member State has the primary responsibility for the regulation of most matters within their jurisdiction and consequently each has its own laws. Harmonisation aims to:\n\nAn objective of the European Union to achieve uniformity in laws of member states is to facilitate free trade and protect citizens.\n\nHarmonisation is a process of ascertaining the admitted limits of international unification but does not necessarily amount to a vision of total uniformity.\n\nHarmonisation is usually not comprehensive but is relatively partial. That is, harmonisation of law doesn’t seek to create a sole authority of law on a particular subject. This is because measures to harmonise law cannot go further than that which is necessary.\n\nHarmonisation is unsystematic. The directives of the European Union do not focus on or contain comprehensive regulation of the entire law. The directives regulate some very specific issues and they regulate them only for particular situations or circumstances and only for particular types of parties. This is most prevalent in European Union contract law.\n\nHarmonisation generally takes place on two levels of governance, the overarching body and each of the members individually. Taking the European Union, the two levels are the European level and national level. Although both European and national legislators share the legislative responsibilities, neither of these bodies has final responsibility for the whole. Also, there is no superior political authority which has the final say on who is responsible for what, i.e. no overarching authority over the European and national legislators. The European Court of Justice may however determine the extent of harmonization when determining cases.\n\nHarmonisation is dynamic and this is its most appealing feature. The instruments of harmonization aim at change, in particular improving and establishing consistent conditions for the operation of legal principles.\n\nThe unification and harmonisation of laws are similar in the sense that both constitute the process of approximating several legal systems and both are also oriented towards some level of integration after transitioning from a condition characterized by diversity. On the other hand, the two concepts are not same and this is best demonstrated in their differing characteristics. Fundamentally, unification and harmonisation have different aims. The former focuses on the goal of complete unity in substance and detail whereas the latter avoids complete uniformity and is primarily concerned with the approximation of the fundamental principles of national laws. In unification, for example, a new law completely replaces the national laws that have existed before. A harmonisation law on the European level does not exceed mere approximation and leaves the national differences in place as long as they are not expressly regulated by the harmonising law. Here, national laws merely become closer but not identical. \n\nUnification also focuses on substituting or combining two or more legal systems and replacing them with a single system. Harmonisation on the other hand seeks to co-ordinate different legal systems by “eliminating major differences and creating minimum requirements or standards”“Unlike unification which contemplates the substitution of two or more legal systems with one single system, harmonisation of law arises exclusively in comparative law literature, and especially in conjunction with interjurisdictional, private transactions. Harmonisation seeks to ‘effect an approximation or co-ordination of different legal provision or systems by eliminating major differences and creating minimum requirements or standards’”.\n\nHarmonisation can be seen as a step towards unification and, in a way, harmonization aims or strives towards unification.\n\n harmonization is not a new concept. However, the problem is that no harmonisation project has ever reached completion. That is due to the nature of harmonisation, it is designed to incorporate different legal systems under a basic framework.\n\nThis is the appeal of harmonisation, it takes into account the local factors yet applies general principles to make a consistent framework of law. It generally incorporates local factors under a relatively unified framework. An example of harmonisation can be drawn from the European Union and the use of Directives.\n\nDirectives require transposition into the domestic legal system of the Member State in order to become effective. If a Member State fails to transpose the Directive in a timely manner or fails to do it at all, the Directive will take ‘direct effect’, that is, individuals are able to derive rights from that Directive directly despite not being transposed into domestic law. A Directive could be transposed through enactment under legislation from the national parliament or through agreement by reference. The Directives are flexible to the extent that the national authorities of the Member States have the choice of the form and method of the implementation of the Directive. This takes into account the fact that Member States have differing legal systems. Hence this allows the establishment of a harmonised framework of laws whilst preserving the established national laws of each member. This is the major appeal of harmonisation over unification.\n\nHarmonisation can be achieved in two ways, actively or passively. The most common is the active pursuit of harmonisation usually through the enactment of legislation which incorporates the harmonised principles into the local law. Passive harmonisation may occur through non-legislative agreements or a convergence of case law. So far, passive harmonisation is the least successful since the non-legislative agreements tend to be voluntary. The convergence of case law is more promising since:\n“All that matters is that the courts of different European States achieve similar results in the same cases, regardless of which norms, doctrines or procedures they apply in order to reach this end.” \n\nHarmonisation is synonymous with convergence of the law however harmonisation is usually associated via active pursuit through enacting legislation whereas convergence is generally associated with a passive approach such as a natural convergence of law through custom and frequent use of harmonised principles.\n\nThe most prominent example of harmonisation in international law is UNCITRAL (United Nations Commission on International Trade Law).\n\n"}
{"id": "4323467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4323467", "title": "Holidays with Pay (Agriculture) Convention, 1952", "text": "Holidays with Pay (Agriculture) Convention, 1952\n\nHolidays with Pay (Agriculture) Convention, 1952 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1952, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to holidays with pay in agriculture...\n\nThe principles contained in the convention were subsequently revised and included in the ILO Convention C132, Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised), 1970.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 46 states. Of the ratifying states, 12 had denounced the treaty by an automatic process which denounces the 1952 convention when the state ratifies a superseding treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "30921263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30921263", "title": "Indian Claims Limitations Act", "text": "Indian Claims Limitations Act\n\nThe Indian Claims Limitations Act of 1982 (ICLA) is a United States federal statute of limitations that governs some types of claims by Native American tribes and claims by the federal government on behalf of tribes.\n\nPrevious statutes of limitations had only applied to suits by non-Indian landowners against the federal government.\n\nCongress enacted the first statute of limitations applicable to Native American land claims in 1966. The limitation was six years for contract and trespass claims, and three years for tort claims. There was no limitation for land title claims. Pre-1966 claims were deemed to have accrued on July 18, 1966, the date of passage.\n\nUnder the 1966 act, pre-1966 trespass claims would have become barred on July 18, 1972. That day, Congress extended the limitations period for pre-1966 claims an additional five years, to July 18, 1977. The 1972 acts also broadened the scope of the applicability of the limitation, to all civil actions brought by Indian tribes or individuals based upon contract, tort, or trespass theories.\n\nUnder the 1972 acts, pre-1966 trespass claims would have become barred in 1977. That year, Congress extended the limitations period again, until April 1, 1980.\n\nUnder the 1977 act, pre-1966 trespass claims would have become parred on April 1, 1980. Four days before that deadline, Congress again extended the limitations period, until December 31, 1982. That act required the Interior Secretary to determine which claims should not be litigated, and submit proposals to resolve those claims legislatively by June 30, 1981. The Secretary submitted zero proposals by this deadline, but did identify 17,000 pre-1962 claims by 1982.\n\nIn 1982, for the first time, the Interior and Justice Departments failed to endorse an extension. The Native American Rights Fund (NARF) initiated a class action suit on behalf of all Indians and tribes with pre-1966 claims. On November 17, 1982, NARF obtained an order requiring the government to either submit a legislative proposal within 30 days or to initiate the 17,000 lawsuits itself before the statute expired. The United States District Court for the District of Columbia's decision loomed large in the Congressional debates.\n\nOne day before the pre-1966 claims would have become barred, Congress extended the limitations period a final time. This eliminated the statute of limitations entirely for some types of claims.\n\nThe Indian Claims Limitation Act of 1982 required the Interior Secretary to publish in the \"Federal Register\", within 90 days, identify all pre-1966 claims, identify which pre-1966 claims were potentially meritorious, and identify which claims were suitable for litigation or legislation; further, Indian tribes and individuals were given 180 days thereafter to comment on the Secretary's findings. The Secretary did so, and modified the list in response to comments. The limitations status of pre-1966 claims depends in part upon those lists:\n\nThe status of other claims does not depend upon these lists:\n\nAccording to \"Oneida County v. Oneida Indian Nation of N.Y. State\" (1985) [\"Oneida II\"], the 1982 Act \"for the first time imposed a statute of limitations on certain tort and contract claims for damages brought by individual Indians and Indian tribes.\" \"Oneida II\", considering the Act, observed: \"[T]he statutory framework adopted in 1982 presumes the existence of an Indian right of action not otherwise subject to any statute of limitations. It would be a violation of Congress' will were we to hold that a state statute of limitations period should be borrowed in these circumstances.\" The claims involved in \"Oneida II\" was included on the first list, although it need not have been because the Oneida's suit was filed in 1970, before the law.\n\nIn \"Cayuga Indian Nation of N.Y. v. Pataki\" (2005), where the Second Circuit held that laches bars all aboriginal title claims sounding in ejectment or trespass, the Cayuga's claim was on the supplemental list.\n\nThe Interior Department's initial list was 222 pages long.\n\nThe initial list contained more than 17,000 claims by allottees relating to the White Earth Indian Reservation in Minnesota, totaling more than 100,000 acres. Congress responded with the White Earth Reservation Land Settlement Act (1986).\n\n"}
{"id": "3152502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152502", "title": "Internet governance", "text": "Internet governance\n\nInternet governance is the development and application of shared principles, norms, rules, decision-making procedures, and programs that shape the evolution and use of the Internet. This article describes how the Internet was and is currently governed, some of the controversies that occurred along the way, and the ongoing debates about how the Internet should or should not be governed in the future.\n\nInternet governance should not be confused with e-governance, which refers to governments' use of technology to carry out their governing duties.\n\nNo one person, company, organization or government runs the Internet. It is a globally distributed network comprising many voluntarily interconnected autonomous networks. It operates without a central governing body with each constituent network setting and enforcing its own policies. Its governance is conducted by a decentralized and international multistakeholder network of interconnected autonomous groups drawing from civil society, the private sector, governments, the academic and research communities and national and international organizations. They work cooperatively from their respective roles to create shared policies and standards that maintain the Internet's global interoperability for the public good.\n\nHowever, to help ensure interoperability, several key technical and policy aspects of the underlying core infrastructure and the principal namespaces are administered by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), which is headquartered in Los Angeles, California. ICANN oversees the assignment of globally unique identifiers on the Internet, including domain names, Internet protocol addresses, application port numbers in the transport protocols, and many other parameters. This seeks to create a globally unified namespace to ensure the global reach of the Internet. ICANN is governed by an international board of directors drawn from across the Internet's technical, business, academic, and other non-commercial communities. However, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce, continues to have final approval over changes to the DNS root zone. This authority over the root zone file makes ICANN one of a few bodies with global, centralized influence over the otherwise distributed Internet. In the 30 September 2009 Affirmation of Commitments by the Department of Commerce and ICANN, the Department of Commerce finally affirmed that a \"private coordinating process…is best able to flexibly meet the changing needs of the Internet and of Internet users\" (para. 4). While ICANN itself interpreted this as a declaration of its independence, scholars still point out that this is not yet the case. Considering that the U.S. Department of Commerce can unilaterally terminate the Affirmation of Commitments with ICANN, the authority of DNS administration is likewise seen as revocable and derived from a single State, namely the United States.\n\nThe technical underpinning and standardization of the Internet's core protocols (IPv4 and IPv6) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise.\n\nOn 16 November 2005, the United Nations-sponsored World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), held in Tunis, established the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) to open an ongoing, non-binding conversation among multiple stakeholders about the future of Internet governance. Since WSIS, the term \"Internet governance\" has been broadened beyond narrow technical concerns to include a wider range of Internet-related policy issues.\n\nThe definition of Internet governance has been contested by differing groups across political and ideological lines. One of the main debates concerns the authority and participation of certain actors, such as national governments, corporate entities and civil society, to play a role in the Internet's governance.\n\nA working group established after a UN-initiated World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) proposed the following definition of Internet governance as part of its June 2005 report:\n\nLaw professor Yochai Benkler developed a conceptualization of Internet governance by the idea of three \"layers\" of governance:\n\nProfessors Jovan Kurbalija and Laura DeNardis also offer comprehensive definitions to \"Internet Governance\". According to Kurbalija, the broad approach to Internet Governance goes \"beyond Internet infrastructural aspects and address other legal, economic, developmental, and sociocultural issues\"; along similar lines, DeNardis argues that \"Internet Governance generally refers to policy and technical coordination issues related to the exchange of information over the Internet\". One of the more policy-relevant questions today is exactly whether the regulatory responses are appropriate to police the content delivered through the Internet: it includes important rules for the improvement of Internet safety and for dealing with threats such as cyber-bullying, copyright infringement, data protection and other illegal or disruptive activities.\n\nTo understand how the Internet is managed today, it is necessary to know a little of its history. The original ARPANET is one of the components which eventually evolved to become the Internet. As its name suggests the ARPANET was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency within the U.S. Department of Defense. During the development of ARPANET, a numbered series of Request for Comments (RFCs) memos documented technical decisions and methods of working as they evolved. The standards of today's Internet are still documented by RFCs.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1986 the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) created the NSFNET backbone, using TCP/IP, to connect their supercomputing facilities. NSFNET became a general-purpose research network, a hub to connect the supercomputing centers to each other and to the regional research and education networks that would in turn connect campus networks. The combined networks became generally known as the Internet. By the end of 1989, Australia, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and the UK were connected to the Internet, which had grown to contain more than 160,000 hosts.\n\nIn 1990, the ARPANET was formally terminated. In 1991 the NSF began to relax its restrictions on commercial use on NSFNET and commercial network providers began to interconnect. The final restrictions on carrying commercial traffic ended on 30 April 1995, when the NSF ended its sponsorship of the NSFNET Backbone Service and the service ended. Today almost all Internet infrastructure in the United States, and large portion in other countries, is provided and owned by the private sector. Traffic is exchanged between these networks, at major interconnection points, in accordance with established Internet standards and commercial agreements.\n\nDuring 1979 the Internet Configuration Control Board was founded by DARPA to oversee the network's development. During 1984 it was renamed the Internet Advisory Board (IAB), and during 1986 it became the Internet Activities Board.\n\nThe Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) was formed during 1986 by the U.S. government to develop and promote Internet standards. It consisted initially of researchers, but by the end of the year participation was available to anyone, and its business was performed largely by email.\n\nFrom the early days of the network until his death during 1998, Jon Postel oversaw address allocation and other Internet protocol numbering and assignments in his capacity as Director of the Computer Networks Division at the Information Sciences Institute of the University of Southern California, under a contract from the Department of Defense. This function eventually became known as the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), and as it expanded to include management of the global Domain Name System (DNS) root servers, a small organization grew. Postel also served as RFC Editor.\n\nAllocation of IP addresses was delegated to five Regional Internet Registries (RIRs):\nAfter Jon Postel's death in 1998, IANA became part of ICANN, a California nonprofit established in September 1998 by the U.S. government and awarded a contract by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Initially two board members were elected by the Internet community at large, though this was changed by the rest of the board in 2002 in a poorly attended public meeting in Accra, Ghana.\n\nIn 1992 the Internet Society (ISOC) was founded, with a mission to \"assure the open development, evolution and use of the Internet for the benefit of all people throughout the world\". Its members include individuals (anyone may join) as well as corporations, organizations, governments, and universities. The IAB was renamed the Internet \"Architecture\" Board, and became part of ISOC. The Internet Engineering Task Force also became part of the ISOC. The IETF is overseen currently by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG), and longer-term research is carried on by the Internet Research Task Force and overseen by the Internet Research Steering Group.\n\nAt the first World Summit on the Information Society in Geneva in 2003, the topic of Internet governance was discussed. ICANN's status as a private corporation under contract to the U.S. government created controversy among other governments, especially Brazil, China, South Africa, and some Arab states. Since no general agreement existed even on the definition of what comprised Internet governance, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan initiated a Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) to clarify the issues and report before the second part of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Tunis 2005. After much controversial debate, during which the U.S. delegation refused to consider surrendering the U.S. control of the Root Zone file, participants agreed on a compromise to allow for wider international debate on the policy principles. They agreed to establish an Internet Governance Forum (IGF), to be convened by the United Nations Secretary General before the end of the second quarter of 2006. The Greek government volunteered to host the first such meeting.\n\nAnnual global IGFs have been held since 2006, with the Forum renewed for five years by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2010. In addition to the annual global IGF, regional IGFs have been organized in Africa, the Arab region, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as in sub-regions. in December 2015, the United Nations General Assembly renewed the IGF for another ten years, in the context of the WSIS 10-year overall review.\n\nMedia, freedom of expression and freedom of information have been long recognized as principles of internet governance, included in the 2003 Geneva Declaration and 2005 Tunis Commitment of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS). Given the crossborder, decentralized nature of the internet, an enabling environment for media freedom in the digital age requires global multi-stakeholder cooperation and shared respect for human rights. In broad terms, two different visions have been seen to shape global internet governance debates in recent years.\n\nOn the one hand, some national governments, particularly in the Central and Eastern European and Asia-Pacific regions, have emphasized state sovereignty as an organizing premise of national and global internet governance. In some regions, data localization laws—requiring that data be stored, processed and circulated within a given jurisdiction—have been introduced to keep citizens’ personal data in the country, both to retain regulatory authority over such data and to strengthen the case for greater jurisdiction. Countries in the Central and Eastern European, Asia-Pacific, and African regions all have legislation requiring some localization. Data localization requirements increase the likelihood of multiple standards and the fragmentation of the internet, limiting the free flow of information, and in some cases increasing the potential for surveillance, which in turn impacts on freedom of expression.\n\nOn the other hand, the dominant practice has been towards a unified, universal internet with broadly shared norms and principles. The NETmundial meeting, held in Brazil in 2014, produced a multistakeholder statement the ‘internet should continue to be a globally coherent, interconnected, stable, unfragmented, scalable and accessible network-of-networks.’ In 2015, UNESCO’s General Conference endorsed the concept of Internet Universality and the ‘ROAM Principles’, which state that the internet should be ‘(i) Human Rights-based (ii) Open, (iii) Accessible to all, and (iv) Nurtured by Multistakeholder participation’. The ROAM Principles combine standards for process (multi-stakeholderism to avoid potential capture of the internet by a single power center with corresponding risks), with recommendations about substance (what those principles should be). The fundamental position is for a global internet where ROAM principles frame regional, national and local diversities. In this context, significant objectives are media freedom, network interoperability, net neutrality and the free flow of information (minimal barriers to the rights to receive and impart information across borders, and any limitations to accord with international standards).\n\nIn a study of 30 key initiatives aimed at establishing a bill of rights online during the period between 1999 and 2015, researchers at Harvard’s Berkman Klein Center found that the right to freedom of expression online was protected in more documents (26) than any other right. The UN General Assembly committed itself to multistakeholderism in December 2015 through a resolution extending the WSIS process and IGF mandate for an additional decade. It further underlined the importance of human rights and media-related issues such as the safety of journalists.\n\nGrowing support for the multistakeholder model was also observed in the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) stewardship transition, in which oversight of the internet’s addressing system shifted from a contract with the United States Department of Commerce to a new private sector entity with new multi-stakeholder accountability mechanisms. Another support of the multistakeholder approach has been the Tallinn Manual 2.0 on the International Law Applicable to Cyber Operations, the updated and considerably expanded second edition of the 2013 Tallinn Manual on the International Law Applicable to Cyber Warfare. The annual conferences linked to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime and meetings of the United Nations Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International Security, mandated by the United Nations General Assembly, have deliberated on norms such as protection of critical infrastructure and the application of international law to cyberspace.\n\nIn the period 2012-2016, the African Union passed the Convention on Cyber Security and Personal Data Protection and the Commonwealth Secretariat adopted the Report of the Working Group of Experts on Cybercrime.\n\nThe position of the U.S. Department of Commerce as the controller of some aspects of the Internet gradually attracted criticism from those who felt that control should be more international. A hands-off philosophy by the Department of Commerce helped limit this criticism, but this was undermined in 2005 when the Bush administration intervened to help kill the .xxx top-level domain proposal, and, much more severely, following the 2013 disclosures of mass surveillance by the U.S. government.\n\nWhen the IANA functions were handed over to ICANN, a new U.S. nonprofit, controversy increased. ICANN's decision-making process was criticised by some observers as being secretive and unaccountable. When the directors' posts which had previously been elected by the \"at-large\" community of Internet users were abolished, some feared that ICANN would become illegitimate and its qualifications questionable, due to the fact that it was now losing the aspect of being a neutral governing body. ICANN stated that it was merely streamlining decision-making, and developing a structure suitable for the modern Internet. On 1 October 2015, following a community-led process spanning months, the stewardship of the IANA functions were transitioned to the global Internet community.\n\nOther topics of controversy included the creation and control of generic top-level domains (.com, .org, and possible new ones, such as .biz or .xxx), the control of country-code domains, recent proposals for a large increase in ICANN's budget and responsibilities, and a proposed \"domain tax\" to pay for the increase.\n\nThere were also suggestions that individual governments should have more control, or that the International Telecommunication Union or the United Nations should have a function in Internet governance.\n\nOne controversial proposal to this effect, resulting from a September 2011 summit between India, Brazil, and South Africa (IBSA), would seek to move internet governance into a \"UN Committee on Internet-Related Policy\" (UN-CIRP). The move was a reaction to a perception that the principles of the 2005 Tunis Agenda for the Information Society have not been met. The statement called for the subordination of independent technical organizations such as ICANN and the ITU to a political organization operating under the auspices of the United Nations. After outrage from India’s civil society and media, the Indian government backed away from the proposal.\n\nOn 7 October 2013 the Montevideo Statement on the Future of Internet Cooperation was released by the leaders of a number of organizations involved in coordinating the Internet's global technical infrastructure, loosely known as the \"I*\" (or \"I-star\") group. Among other things, the statement \"expressed strong concern over the undermining of the trust and confidence of Internet users globally due to recent revelations of pervasive monitoring and surveillance\" and \"called for accelerating the globalization of ICANN and IANA functions, towards an environment in which all stakeholders, including all governments, participate on an equal footing\". This desire to move away from a United States centric approach is seen as a reaction to the ongoing NSA surveillance scandal. The statement was signed by the heads of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the Internet Engineering Task Force, the Internet Architecture Board, the World Wide Web Consortium, the Internet Society, and the five regional Internet address registries (African Network Information Center, American Registry for Internet Numbers, Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre, Latin America and Caribbean Internet Addresses Registry, and Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre).\n\nIn October 2013, Fadi Chehadé, former President and CEO of ICANN, met with Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff in Brasilia. Upon Chehadé's invitation, the two announced that Brazil would host an international summit on Internet governance in April 2014. The announcement came after the 2013 disclosures of mass surveillance by the U.S. government, and President Rousseff's speech at the opening session of the 2013 United Nations General Assembly, where she strongly criticized the U.S. surveillance program as a \"breach of international law\". The \"Global Multistakeholder Meeting on the Future of Internet Governance (NETMundial)\" will include representatives of government, industry, civil society, and academia. At the IGF VIII meeting in Bali in October 2013 a commentator noted that Brazil intends the meeting to be a \"summit\" in the sense that it will be high level with decision-making authority. The organizers of the \"NETmundial\" meeting have decided that an online forum called \"/1net\", set up by the I* group, will be a major conduit of non-governmental input into the three committees preparing for the meeting in April.\n\nNetMundial managed to convene a large number of global actors to produce a consensus statement on internet governance principles and a roadmap for the future evolution of the internet governance ecosystem. NETmundial Multistakeholder Statement – the outcome of the Meeting – was elaborated in an open and participatory manner, by means of successive consultations. This consensus should be qualified in that even though the statement was adopted by consensus, some participants, specifically the Russian Federation, India, Cuba, and ARTICLE 19, representing some participants from civil society expressed some dissent with its contents and the process.\n\nThe NetMundial Initiative is an initiative by ICANN CEO Fadi Chehade along with representatives of the World Economic Forum (WEF)\nand the Brazilian Internet Steering Committee (Comitê Gestor da Internet no Brasil), commonly referred to as \"CGI.br\"., which was inspired by the 2014 NetMundial meeting.\n\nA month later, the Panel On Global Internet Cooperation and Governance Mechanisms (convened by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and the World Economic Forum (WEF) with assistance from The Annenberg Foundation), supported and included the NetMundial statement in its own report.\n\nOn October 1, 2016 ICANN ended its contract with the United States Department of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA).\n\nOn 12 November 2018 at the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) meeting in Paris, French President Emmanuel Macron launched the \"Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace\". This high-level declaration presents a framework of common principles for regulating the Internet and fighting back against cyber attacks, hate speech and other cyber threats.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216248", "title": "Israel–Jordan peace treaty", "text": "Israel–Jordan peace treaty\n\nThe Israel–Jordan peace treaty or in full \"Treaty of Peace Between the State of Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan\" (; transliterated: \"Heskem Ha-Shalom beyn Yisra'el Le-Yarden\"; ; Arabic transliteration: \"Mu'ahadat as-Salaam al-'Urdunniyah al-Isra'yliyah\"), sometimes referred to as \"Wadi Araba Treaty\", was signed in 1994. The signing ceremony took place at the southern border crossing of Arabah on 26 October 1994. Jordan was the second Arab country, after Egypt, to sign a peace accord with Israel.\n\nThe treaty settled relations between the two countries, adjusted land and water disputes, and provided for broad cooperation in tourism and trade. It included a pledge that neither Jordan nor Israel would allow its territory to become a staging ground for military strikes by a third country.\n\nIn 1987 Israeli Foreign Affairs Minister Shimon Peres and King Hussein tried secretly to arrange a peace agreement in which Israel would concede the West Bank to Jordan. The two signed an agreement defining a framework for a Middle Eastern peace conference. The proposal was not consummated due to Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's objection. The following year Jordan abandoned its claim to the West Bank in favor of a peaceful resolution between Israel and the PLO.\n\nDiscussions began in 1994. Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres informed King Hussein that after the Oslo Accords with the PLO, Jordan might be \"left out of the big game\". Hussein consulted with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad. Mubarak encouraged him, but Assad told him only to \"talk\" and not sign any accord. U.S. President Bill Clinton pressured Hussein to start peace negotiations and to sign a peace treaty with Israel and promised him that Jordan's debts would be forgiven. The efforts succeeded and Jordan signed a nonbelligerency agreement with Israel. Rabin, Hussein and Clinton signed the Washington Declaration in Washington, DC, on 25 July 1994. The Declaration says that Israel and Jordan ended the official state of enmity and would start negotiations in order to achieve an \"end to bloodshed and sorrow\" and a just and lasting peace.\n\nOn 26 October 1994, Jordan and Israel signed the peace treaty in a ceremony held in the Arava valley of Israel, north of Eilat and near the Jordanian border. Prime Minister Rabin and Prime Minister Abdelsalam al-Majali signed the treaty and the President of Israel Ezer Weizman shook hands with King Hussein. Clinton observed, accompanied by US Secretary of State Warren Christopher. Thousands of colorful balloons released into the sky ended the event.\n\nEgypt welcomed the agreement while Syria ignored it. The Lebanese militia group Hezbollah resisted the treaty and 20 minutes prior to the ceremony launched mortar and rocket attacks against northern Galilee towns. Israeli residents, who were forced to evacuate the towns for the safety of shelters, took with them transistor radios and mobile TVs in order not to miss the historical moment of signing a second peace treaty with an Arab state.\n\nThe Peace treaty consists of a preamble, 30 articles, 5 annexes, and agreed minutes. It settles issues about territory, security, water, and co-operation on a range of subjects.\n\nAnnex I concerns borders and sovereignty. Section \"Annex I (a)\" establishes an \"administrative boundary\" between Jordan and the West Bank, occupied by Israel in 1967, without prejudice to the status of that territory. Israel recognises Jordan's sovereignty over the Naharayim/Baqura area (including Peace Island) and the Zofar/Al-Ghamr area.\nAnnex II concerns water and related matters. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty, Jordan and Israel agreed to establish a \"Joint Water Committee\" (Article VII).\nAnnex III concerns crime and drugs.\nAnnex IV concerns environment.\nAnnex V concerns Border Crossings, passports and visas. Article 6 stipulates that \"″Each Party has the right to refuse entry to a person, in accordance with its regulations″\".\nThe Agreed Minutes of the treaty give some details about the implementation of the peace treaty.\n\n\nFollowing the agreements, Israel and Jordan opened their borders. Several border-crossings were erected, allowing tourists, businessmen and workers to travel between the two countries. Israeli tourists started to visit Jordan, many to see the \"sela ha'adom\" (\"Red Rock\") of Petra – a stone-carved Nabatean city which had fascinated Israelis during the 1950s and 1960s, often luring adventurers to visit it secretly.\n\nIn 1996 the two nations signed a trade treaty. As part of the agreement, Israel assisted in establishing a modern medical center in Amman.\n\nIn December 2013, Israel and Jordan signed an agreement to build a desalination plant on the Red Sea, near the Jordanian port of Aqaba, as part of the Red Sea–Dead Sea Canal.\n\nIn October 2018, Jordan notified Israel of its intention not to renew lands leased under Annex I of the agreement. The annex granted Jordan the right not to renew the lease of Naharayim (Baqoura) and Tzofar (Ghumar) after 25 years, given that a notice is given a year prior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14693633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14693633", "title": "Jankers", "text": "Jankers\n\nIn the British Armed Services, jankers or Restrictions of Privileges is an official punishment for a minor breach of discipline, as opposed to the more severe punishment of \"detention\" which would be given for a man committing a more serious or criminal offence. To be \"on jankers\" meant the serviceman or woman had been put on a charge by a non-commissioned officer (NCO) or occasionally a commissioned officer (referred to in service slang as \"being put on a fizzer\"), and so having his alleged offence entered on a Charge Report (Army or RAF Form No. 252). After appearing before an officer, the punishment might be ordered by the officer only after he has heard the evidence and had considered any mitigating factors.\n\n\"Jankers\" is a much used vernacular term. The official Army terminology for jankers was \"CB\" which means \"Confined to Barracks\" or in the RAF \"CC\" \"Confined to Camp\" but later during the epoch of National Service the term was changed to \"ROP\" or \"Restrictions of Privileges\" in both Services.\n\nThe term \"jankers\" is today very occasionally used jokingly in civilian life, such as in journalism to mean the punishment of minor infringements by the imposition of tedious duties.\n\nAs an alternative to ordering jankers, the officer may alternatively decide to \"\"dismiss the charge\", if he considered the man had no case to answer. Or the officer may simply \"admonish\"\" him or her if he decided the alleged breach of discipline had occurred but was just not serious enough to warrant jankers. For some offences, like drunkenness, the officer might alternatively impose a fine instead of jankers.\n\nWhen jankers is \"awarded\" by the officer taking the charge, the officer will also specify the number of days the jankers would last for up to a maximum of 14 days.\n\nThe officer's decision, in this regard, is dependent upon his judgement of the seriousness, or otherwise, of the offence(s) committed and also whether it is a first offence or there were previous similar breaches of discipline already recorded on the man's or woman's conduct sheet e.g. \"Jankers\" is a familiar part of life during Regular and National Service in both the British Army and the Royal Air Force.\n\nThe kinds of offences which, most typically, resulted in a man being put on jankers, have always been fairly minor breaches of discipline, most commonly being AWOL, e.g. returning to base slightly late after leave on a weekend pass. Other common offences, often resulting in a spell of jankers, were being caught still in bed after reveille, being drunk, being deemed \"scruffy\" when in uniform such as boots or brasses not gleaming satisfactorily, performing some minor duty lazily or carelessly, failing to comply correctly with some order or regulation, failing to salute an officer correctly or some other similar mistake, being late for some duty, being untidy or lazy in his barrack room, such as not sweeping his bed space properly or having dust on his locker, making a sloppy bedpack, or else not being up to the required standard of smartness on parade or on a kit inspection.\n\nIn many such cases, another officer might have ordered an NCO to \"put that man on a Charge\" when the breach of discipline or mistake was originally observed, and the form 252 would then be signed by the NCO. The more severe punishment of \"detention\" was given for offences which might be considered as criminal in a civil court, such as theft or violence against another person, or insubordination. Detention could only be given to a soldier or airman by the Commanding Officer, usually somebody of the Army rank of Colonel or RAF rank of Group Captain or by a convened Court Martial Board. Jankers could be given by a less senior officer, most typically a Captain or Flight Lieutenant.\n\nAlthough what being on jankers involved has varied between different bases, different Services and over time, typically, whilst on jankers, the soldier or airmen was subjected to several punishment parades and inspections each day in different forms of dress, starting with working clothes fatigues half an hour after reveille, where he paraded outside the guardhouse for inspection by the Orderly Officer. After inspection, the offender is sent to perform a variety of tasks, often menial, before breakfast. After lunch, the man has to report again to the guardroom for inspection, and is then assigned unpleasant work, known as \"fatigues\", until shortly before he must attend the afternoon's muster parade. After tea, he parades again at the guardhouse, this time in battledress and in battle order, where he is rigorously inspected. Any criticism of his turnout or equipment can result in another 'charge' or 'fizzer.' The final parade of the day was at 22.00 hours, and in best Battle Dress, best boots, sharply and cleanly turned out, and with every piece of equipment provided by the Army. After inspection, the soldier could then return to barracks, prepare his kit for tomorrow's parades, and then get to bed for some rest.\n\nThe theory was that the whole punishment made the offender's daily life unpleasant, having to get up extremely early, then rushing about miserable, often having the mickey taken out of him by his mates and perhaps feeling humiliated. So he was thereby motivated never to repeat in future, the mistake or slackness that got him put on the charge in the first place. Being put on jankers was never considered an indication of bad character in the Services, but particularly in the days of conscription, rather more as normal Armed Forces discipline likely to be experienced by the majority of ratings at some time or other while in the Forces.\n\nBritish TV classic comedies, such as \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\" and \"Get Some In!\" and full length cinema films of that epoch like \"Privates Progress\" and \"Carry on Sergeant\" habitually made fun of jankers, as have memoirs of life in the armed services. For example in the first episode of \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\" Gunner Graham was put on \"jankers\" (painting stones) by the Sergeant Major. In Last of the Summer Wine, Smiler once described that working for Nora Batty was like being in the Army again, and always on Jankers.\n"}
{"id": "50600664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50600664", "title": "Law's Empire", "text": "Law's Empire\n\nLaw's Empire is a 1986 text in legal philosophy by the late Oxford scholar Ronald Dworkin which continues his criticism of the philosophy of legal positivism as promoted by H.L.A. Hart during the middle to late 20th century. The book notably introduces Dworkin's Judge Hercules as an idealized version of a jurist with extraordinary legal skills who is able to challenge various predominating schools of legal interpretation and legal hermeneutics prominent throughout the 20th century. Judge Hercules is eventually challenged by Judge Hermes, another idealized version of a jurist who is affected by an affinity to respecting historical legal meaning arguments which do not affect Judge Hercules in the same manner. Judge Hermes' theory of legal interpretation is found by Dworkin in the end to be inferior to the approach of Judge Hercules.\n\nMuch of the twentieth century in legal philosophy has been characterized by the confrontation of legal positivism with natural law theory as being among the most prominent legal theories seen in the century. One major proponent of the Anglo-American version of legal positivism was H.L.A. Hart, a professor at Oxford University, who was a teacher of Dworkin's and whom eventually Dworkin would come to strongly disagree with. To challenge the prevailing schools of legal interpretation and legal philosophy in the late twentieth century, Dworkin invented the personage of Judge Hercules to represent a version of legal philosophy which he saw as effectively answering many of the shortcoming he had come to identify with Hart and other legal schools prominent in his time.\n\nDworkin's approach in the book is to present his argument in ten chapters with one summary chapter added at the end of the book titled, \"Law Beyond Law\". The book is original in its format compared to conventional approaches to academic studies in the law by introducing the personage of Judge Hercules early in the text to answer many of the legal theories which Dworkin wishes to discuss as to their being insufficient to meet the requirements of late 20th century jurisprudence. In Dworkin's perspective, the prevailing climate of legal theory at the end of the 20th century was understood by him as being represented by the deficiencies of many competing and contradictory legal theories being presented by the legal academy. The ten chapters of the book build their logical argument sequentially and in growing complexity of exposition where each chapter is dependent upon the logical demonstrations made in previous chapters in order to establish the rationale and comprehension at work in the mind of the legal personage represented by Judge Hercules.\n\nThe Preface of the book is used by Dworkin to state his primary concern in this volume concerning his approach to the philosophy of law. Dworkin states concisely: \"We are subjects of law's empire, liegemen to its methods and ideals, bound in spirit while we debate what we must therefore do.\" The \"empire\" of the law is expansive for Dworkin and includes not only the domain of jurisprudence but extends fully into the domain of politics and sociology, including the philosophical domain of morals, ethics and even aesthetics as these affect the lives of all individuals of society.\n\nIn this chapter, Dworkin tells his readers that there are three types of law with which he is primarily concerned. These three areas of law are outlined as (a) Conventionalism, (b) Pragmatism (semantic theory), and (c) Law as integrity. Dworkin shall make a primary point of defending Law as integrity throughout the subsequent chapters of his text.\n\nDworkin introduced his principle of the 'semantic sting' of the semantic philosophy of law. He develops and distinguishes between two forms of skepticism to present his arguments differentiating between \"internal skepticism\" and \"external skepticism\", for use in subsequent chapters.\n\nDworkin informs his readers that the concept of law is the theory of what forms the ground of law. The ground of law is the basis upon which the suppositions for the working and application of law are based and form an unavoidable basis for subsequent discussion of differing concepts of law. The phrase 'concept of law' was used by Hart as the title for an approach to law strongly oriented to Anglo-American reading of positive law to which Dworkin would take exception as to its insufficiency for dealing with issues of jurisprudence encountered throughout the 20th century.\n\nIn this chapter, Dworkin begins his three part, 3-tier assessment of law with his criticism of Conventionalism. He differentiated Conventionalism as falling into two different kinds, which are insufficient, in the end, to the needs of contemporary jurisprudence at the end of the 20th century leading to the start of the 21st century. Dworkin ends the chapter asserting the failure of Conventionalism.\n\nDworkin rejects pragmatism here as insufficient to the requirement of adjudication requirements and legislative principles which he sees as prevailing at the end of the twentieth century. Dworkin begins to stress that contemporary jurisprudence in his view needs to hold in high esteem the values of justice as integrity, fairness and due process.\n\nFor Dworkin, \"Justice is a matter of outcomes: a political decision causes injustice, however fair its procedures that produced it, when it denies people some resource, liberty, or opportunity that the best theories of justice entitle them to have.\" For Dworkin, the answerability of jurisprudence to political theory and political obligations is central. Poliltical ideals are presented as operating from a base of moral concerns which do influence what is legislated as law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14540073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14540073", "title": "Legality of the Vietnam War", "text": "Legality of the Vietnam War\n\nThe legality of the Vietnam War refers to the lawfulness of the 1965-1975 U.S. military activity that occurred in Vietnam.\n\nThe Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, passed in 1964, authorized U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson to use military force in Southeast Asia. The Resolution was repealed in 1971, however, and President Richard M. Nixon cited his power as commander-in-chief of U.S. forces under as legal authority for operations in Vietnam. No formal declaration of war was ever made, a violation of the US Constitution according to many.\n\nChapter VII of the United Nations Charter prohibits war that is not to maintain or restore international peace (Article 42) or undertaken in self-defense (Article 51). According to Richard Falk, \"If the US Government had abided by international law, the dreadful experience of the Vietnam War would not have occurred.\" However, according to Benjamin B. Ferencz:\n\nIn United States v. Sisson, a federal judge dismissed a challenge to the Vietnam War's constitutionality because it involved \"just the sort of evidence, policy considerations, and constitutional principles which elude the normal processes of the judiciary and which are far more suitable for determination by coordinate branches of the government.\"\n\nIn Sarnoff v. Shultz, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court ruled on, and the U.S. Supreme was petitioned to reconsider, the constitutionality of then Treasury Secretary, George Schultz, allocating funds to the Vietnam War in spite of the fact that an official Declaration of War had never been made. The Supreme Court voted 6-3 to not reconsider the lower court's ruling, thus upholding Ninth Circuit's ruling that George Shultz had been tacitly authorized by the U.S. Congress to allocate funds to the Vietnam War by virtue of Congress's approval of the federal budgets which included these war funds.\n\n\n3. United States Supreme Court SARNOFF v. SHULTZ, (1972) No. 71-1652 Argued:N/A Decided: October 16, 1972 \n"}
{"id": "33033816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33033816", "title": "MOBILedit", "text": "MOBILedit\n\nMOBILedit Forensic is a digital forensics product by Compelson Labs that searches, examines and report on data from GSM/CDMA/PCS cell phone devices. MOBILedit connects to cell phone devices via an Infrared (IR) port, a Bluetooth link, Wi-Fi, or a cable interface. After connectivity has been established, the phone model is identified by its manufacturer, model number, and serial number (IMEI) and with a corresponding picture of the phone.\n\nData acquired from cell phone devices are stored in the .med file format. After a successful logical acquisition, the following fields are populated with data: subscriber information, device specifics, Phonebook, SIM Phonebook, Missed Calls, Last Numbers Dialed, Received Calls, Inbox, Sent Items, Drafts, Files folder. Items present in the Files folder, ranging from Graphics files to Camera Photos and Tones, depend on the phone’s capabilities. Additional features include the myPhoneSafe.com service, which provides access to the IMEI database to register and check for stolen phones.\n\nMOBILedit is a platform that works with a variety of phones and smartphones (a complete list of supported handsets is available on the manufacturer’s website) and explores contents of the phone through a MS Outlook-like folder structure. This allows backup of the information stored on the phone, storing it on a PC or copy data to another phone via Phone Copier feature.\n\n"}
{"id": "31883778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31883778", "title": "Mass shooting", "text": "Mass shooting\n\nA mass shooting is an incident involving multiple participants of firearms-related violence. The United States' Congressional Research Service acknowledges that there is not a broadly accepted definition, and defines a \"public mass shooting\" as one in which four or more people select someone indiscriminately, and kill them, echoing the FBI definition of the term \"mass murder\". However, according to the Investigative Assistance for Violent Crimes Act of 2012, signed into law in January 2013, a mass killing is defined as a killing with at least three deaths, excluding the perpetrator. Another unofficial definition of a mass shooting is an event involving the shooting (not necessarily resulting in death) of five or more people (sometimes four) with no cooling-off period. Related terms include school shooting and massacre.\n\nA mass shooting may be committed by individuals or organizations in public or non-public places. Terrorist groups in recent times have used the tactic of mass shootings to fulfill their political aims. Individuals who commit mass shootings may fall into any of a number of categories, including killers of family, of coworkers, of students, and of random strangers. Individuals' motives for shooting vary.\n\nResponses to mass shootings take a variety of forms, depending on the context: number of casualties, the country, political climate, and other factors. The media cover mass shootings extensively and often sensationally, and the effect of that coverage has been examined. Countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia have changed their gun laws in the wake of mass shootings. In contrast, the United States' constitution prohibits laws which disallow firearm ownership outright and owns about half of the world's guns.\n\nThe characterization of an event as a mass shooting depends upon definition and definitions vary. Under U.S. federal law the Attorney General may on a request from a state assist in investigating \"mass killings\", rather than mass shootings. The term was originally defined as the murder of four or more people with no cooling-off period but redefined by Congress in 2013 as being murder of three or more people. In \"Behind the Bloodshed\", a report by \"USA Today\", a mass killing is defined as any incident in which four or more were killed and also includes family killings. A crowdsourced data site cited by CNN, MSNBC, \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Economist\", the BBC, etc., Mass Shooting Tracker, defines a mass shooting as any incident in which four or more people are shot, whether injured or killed. A noteworthy connection has been reported in the U.S. between mass shootings and domestic or family violence, with a current or former intimate partner or family member killed in 76 of 133 cases (57%), and a perpetrator having previously been charged with domestic violence in 21. The lack of a single definition can lead to alarmism in the news media, with some reports conflating categories of crimes.\n\nIn Australia, a 2006 paper defined a mass shooting as \"one in which ⩾5 firearm‐related homicides are committed by one or two perpetrators in proximate events in a civilian setting, not counting any perpetrators\".\n\nCrime violence research group Gun Violence Archive, whose research is used by all major American media outlets defines Mass Shooting as \"FOUR or more shot and/or killed in a single event [incident], at the same general time and location not including the shooter\" differentiating between Mass Shooting and Mass Murder [Killing] and not counting shooters as victims.\n\nAn act is typically defined as terrorist if it \"appears to have been intended\" to intimidate or to coerce people; a mass shooting is not, in itself, an act of terrorism. A U.S. Congressional Research Service report explicitly excluded from its definition of public mass shootings those in which the violence is a means to an end, for example where the gunmen \"pursue criminal profit or kill in the name of terrorist ideologies\".\n\nMass shootings have occurred on the African continent, including the 2015 Sousse attacks, the 2015 Bamako hotel attack, the 2013 Westgate shopping mall attack in Nairobi, Kenya, and the 1994 Kampala wedding massacre. Most mass shootings in Africa have stemmed from terrorism, with tourists and diplomats frequently being the targets. Workplace violence and prejudice against ethnic minorities have less-frequently been involved in such spontaneous acts of mass violence.\n\nSeveral mass shootings have occurred in Asia, including the 1938 Tsuyama massacre, the 1948 Babrra massacre, the 1983 Pashupatinath Temple shooting, the 1993 Chongqing shooting, and the 1994 Tian Mingjian incident.\n\nThe single deadliest event was the 2008 Mumbai attacks in which 164 people were killed and a further 308 people were wounded by terrorists.\n\nSouth Korea has suffered multiple mass shootings in the South Korean Army, mainly due to soldier's stress and conflicts from its violence and detention from society.\n\nJapan has as few as two gun-related homicides per year. These numbers include all homicides in the country, not just mass shootings.\n\nThere have been in Israel such as the 1972 Lod Airport Massacre, which killed 26 and injured 80, the 2002 Bat Mitzvah massacre and the June 2016, massacre at the popular Sarona center complex. These were all planned or executed by Palestinian or Arab terrorists.\n\nIn addition there have been two mass shootings by Jews in Israel. In 1991, Ami Popper was convicted of murdering seven Palestinian men in a mass shooting carried out in 1990. In 1994 Baruch Goldstein murdered 29 Muslims worshipping and injuring a further 125 in Hebron. Also known as the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre.\n\nOther shootings include the 2013 Meet al-Attar shooting in Egypt.\n\nSeveral mass shootings have occurred in Europe, including the November 2015 Paris attacks, the 2012 Toulouse and Montauban shootings, the 2011 Norway attacks, the 2009 Winnenden school shooting, the 2007 Jokela school shooting, the 2008 Kauhajoki school shooting, the 2001 Zug massacre, the 2002 Erfurt massacre, the 1987 Hungerford massacre, the 1990 Puerto Hurraco massacre, the 1993 Greysteel massacre, the 2010 Cumbria shootings and the 1996 Dunblane massacre.\n\nNotable mass shootings include the 1992 Tatarstan shooting, the 2002 Yaroslavsky shooting, the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis, the 2004 Beslan school siege, the 2012 Moscow shooting, the 2013 Belgorod shooting, and the 2014 Moscow school shooting.\n\nNotable mass shootings in Canada include the 1989 École Polytechnique massacre, the 1992 Concordia University massacre, the 2012 Danzig Street shooting, the 2014 Edmonton killings, the 2017 Quebec City mosque shooting, and the 2018 Danforth shooting.\n\nNotable mass shootings in Mexico include the 2010 Chihuahua shootings.\n\nThe U.S. has more mass shootings than any other country.\n\nHowever, when adjusting for different population sizes, analysing data between 2009 and 2015 (therefore excluding shootings like the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting and the 2017 Las Vegas shooting), the US falls to 12th in a comparison between the US and Europe.\n\nIn one study by criminologist Adam Lankford, it was estimated that 31% of public mass shootings occur in the U.S., although it has only 5% of the world's population. The study concludes that \"The United States and other nations with high firearm ownership rates may be particularly susceptible to future public mass shootings, even if they are relatively peaceful or mentally healthy according to other national indicators.\" Criminologist Gary Kleck criticized Adam's findings stating the study fails to provide evidence that gun ownership increases mass shootings and that Lankford has been unwilling to share a list of his cases, provide a list of the number of attacks per country, or even list his sources so that others can check his numbers. Mass shootings have also been observed to be followed by an increase in the purchase of weapons, but this phenomenon seems to be driven by a minority since neither gun owners nor non-owners report an increased feeling of needing guns.\n\nNotable mass shootings in Argentina include the 2004 Carmen de Patagones school shooting.\n\nNotable mass shootings in Brazil include the 2011 Realengo massacre.\n\nNotable mass shootings in Australia include the 1987 Hoddle Street massacre and the 1996 Port Arthur Massacre. There were 13 mass shootings with five or more deaths between 1979 and 1996, and none thereafter, following stricter gun control laws. Australia has had two mass shootings with 5 or more deaths since 1996, however these shootings involved family members.\n\nNotable mass shootings in New Zealand include the 1990 Aramoana massacre.\n\nAfter mass shootings, some survivors have written about their experiences and their experiences have been covered by journalists. A survivor of the Knoxville Unitarian Universalist church shooting wrote about his reaction to other mass shooting incidents. The father of a victim in a mass shooting at a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, wrote about witnessing other mass shootings after the loss of his son. The survivors of the 2011 Norway attacks recounted their experience to GQ. In addition, one paper studied Swedish police officers' reactions to a mass shooting.\n\nSurvivors of mass shootings can suffer from posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nNotable mass shooters from outside the United States include Anders Behring Breivik (Norway, 2011), Robert Steinhauser and Tim Kretschmer (Germany, 2002 and 2009), William Unek (Africa, 1954 and 1957), Marc Lépine and Valery Fabrikant, (Canada, 1989 and 1992), Pekka-Eric Auvinen and Matti Juhani Saari (Finland, 2007 and 2008), Genildo Ferreira de França (Brazil, 1997), Friedrich Leibacher (Switzerland, 2001), Ľubomír Harman (Slovakia, 2010), Tristan van der Vlis (Netherlands, 2011), Richard Komakech (Uganda, 1994), Omar Abdul Razeq Abdullah Rifai (Egypt, 2013), Farda Gadirov (Azerbaijan, 2009), Martin Bryant (Australia, 1996), Michael Robert Ryan and Derrick Bird (England, 1987 and 2010), Thomas Hamilton (Scotland, 1996) Ljubiša Bogdanović (Serbia, 2013) and Woo Bum-kon (South Korea, 1982).\n\nNotable perpetrators of massacres in the U.S. include Edward Charles Allaway, James Edward Pough, Carl Robert Brown, Omar Mateen, Robert A. Hawkins, James Oliver Huberty, Nathan Dunlap, George Hennard, Dylann Roof, Adam Lanza, Nidal Malik Hasan, Charles Whitman, Jeff Weise, Gang Lu, Patrick Sherrill, Barry Loukaitis, Esteban Santiago, Christopher Harper-Mercer, Gian Luigi Ferri, Mark Essex, Scott Evans Dekraai, Steven Kazmierczak, Jennifer San Marco, James Eagan Holmes, Anthony F. Barbaro, Michael McLendon, Rodrick Shonte Dantzler, Jared Lee Loughner, Seung-Hui Cho, Elliot Rodger, Charles Carl Roberts IV, Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik, Robert Lewis Dear, Mitchell Johnson and Andrew Golden, Aaron Alexis, Wade Michael Page, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, Patrick Edward Purdy, Gavin Eugene Long, Micah Xavier Johnson, Kyle Aaron Huff, One L. Goh, Stephen Paddock, Devin Patrick Kelley, Nikolas Cruz, Dimitrios Pagourtzis, David Katz, Robert Bowers, and Ian Long. U.S. mass shooters are overwhelmingly males. According to a database compiled by \"Mother Jones\" magazine, the race of the shooters is approximately proportionate to the overall U.S. population, although Asians are overrepresented and Latinos underrepresented. Criminologist James Allen Fox said that most mass murderers do not have a criminal record, or involuntary incarceration at a mental health center, but an article in the New York Times in December 2015 about 15 recent mass shootings found that six perpetrators had had run-ins with law enforcement, and six had mental health issues.\n\nMass shootings can be motivated by misanthropy and terrorism and caused by mental illness, inceldom and extensive bullying among other reasons. Forensic psychologist Stephen Ross says that extreme anger and the thought shooters are working for a cause, rather than mental illness, is most often the explanation. A study by Vanderbilt University researchers found that \"fewer than 5% of the 120,000 gun-related killings in the United States between 2001 and 2010 were perpetrated by people diagnosed with mental illness\". John Roman of the Urban Institute argues that, while better access to mental health care, restricting high powered weapons, and creating a defensive infrastructure to combat terrorism are constructive, they don't address the greater issue, which is \"we have a lot of really angry young men in our country and in the world.\"\n\nAuthor Dave Cullen described killer Eric Harris as an \"injustice collector\" in his 2009 book \"Columbine\". He expanded on the concept in a 2015 \"New Republic\" essay on injustice collectors, identifying several notorious killers as fitting the category, including Christopher Dorner, Elliot Rodger, Vester Flanagan, and Andrew Kehoe. Likewise, mass shooting expert and former FBI profiler Mary O'Toole also uses the phrase \"injustice collector\" in characterizing motives of some mass shooting perpetrators. In relation, criminologist James Alan Fox contends that mass murderers are \"enabled by social isolation\" and typically experience \"years of disappointment and failure that produce a mix of profound hopelessness and deep-seated resentment.\" Jillian Peterson, an assistant professor of criminology at Hamline University who is participating in the construction of a database on mass shooters, noted that two phenomena surface repeatedly in the statistics: hopelessness and a need for notoriety in life or in death.\nNotoriety was first suggested as a possible motive and researched by Justin Nutt. Nutt stated in a 2013 article, \"those who feel nameless and as though no one will care or remember them when they are gone may feel doing something such as a school shooting will make sure they are remembered and listed in the history books.\"\n\nIn considering the frequency of mass shootings in the United States, criminologist Peter Squires says that the individualistic culture in the United States puts the country at greater risk for mass shootings than other countries, noting that \"many other countries where gun ownership is high, such as Norway, Finland, Switzerland and Israel . . . tend to have more tight-knit societies where a strong social bond supports people through crises, and mass killings are fewer.\" He is an advocate of gun control, but contends there is more to mass shootings than the prevalence of guns.\n\nAccording to Michael Cook and Carolyn Moynihan of Mercatornet, an angle that is missed by mainstream media is the findings of important social scientists such as eminent Harvard sociologist Robert J. Sampson who wrote: “Family structure is one of the strongest, if not the strongest, predictor of variations in urban violence across cities in the United States. The close empirical connection between family breakdown and crime suggests that increased spending on crime-fighting, imprisonment, and criminal justice in the United States over the last 40 years is largely the direct or indirect consequence of marital breakdown.” His views are echoed by the eminent criminologists Michael Gottfredson and Travis Hirschi, who have written that “such family measures as the percentage of the population divorced, the percentage of households headed by women, and the percentage of unattached individuals in the community are among the most powerful predictors of crime rates.”\n\nBased on the research of another social scientist who was himself raised by a single mother, Bradford Wilcox, \"boys living in single mother homes are almost twice as likely to end up delinquent compared to boys who enjoy good relationships with their father.\"\n\nMoynihan said that \"almost all school shooters come from families where the parents are either divorced or alienated\", and Cook argued that \"perhaps they wouldn’t need more gun control if they had better divorce control.”\n\nSome people have considered whether media attention revolving around the perpetrators of mass shootings is a factor in sparking further incidents. In response to this, some in law enforcement have decided against naming mass shooting suspects in media-related events to avoid giving them notoriety.\n\nThe effects of messages used in the coverage of mass shootings has been studied. Researchers studied the role the coverage plays in shaping attitudes toward persons with serious mental illness and public support for gun control policies.\n\nIn 2015 a paper written by a physicist and statistician, Sherry Towers, along with four colleagues was published, which proved that there is indeed mass shooting contagion using mathematical modeling. However in 2017 Towers said in an interview that she prefers self-regulation to censorship to address this issue, just like years ago major news outlets successfully prevent copycat suicide.\n\nIn 2016 the American Psychological Association published a press release, claiming that mass shooting contagion does exist and news media and social media enthusiasts should withhold the name(s) and face(s) of the victimizer(s) when reporting a mass shooting to deny the fame the shooter(s) want to curb contagion.\n\nSome news media have weighed in on the gun control debate. After the 2015 San Bernardino attack, the \"New York Daily News\" front-page headline, \"God isn't fixing this\", was accompanied by \"images of tweets from leading Republicans who shared their 'thoughts' and 'prayers' for the shooting victims\". Since the 2014 Isla Vista killings, satirical news website \"The Onion\" has republished the story \"'No Way To Prevent This', Says Only Nation Where This Regularly Happens\" with minor edits after major mass shootings, to satirise the popular consensus that there is a lack of political power in the United States to prevent mass shootings.\n\nResponses to mass shootings take a variety of forms, depending on the country and political climate.\n\nAfter the 1996 Port Arthur massacre in Australia, the government changed gun laws in Australia. As in the United States, figures vary according to the definition of \"mass shooting\"; a 2006 paper used a definition \"one in which ⩾5 firearm‐related homicides are committed by one or two perpetrators in proximate events in a civilian setting, not counting any perpetrators\", compared to the usual U.S. definition of an indiscriminate rampage in public places resulting in four or more victims killed. Between 1981 and the passing of the law in 1996 there were 13 mass shootings with five or more deaths; in the following decade, while the new law was in place, there were no such mass shootings. Overall gun deaths have continued to decline for two decades since the law was passed, however there have been several shootings with three or more deaths since 1996 where the victims were related to the shooter.\n\nThere were five significant shootings, though not meeting the \"mass shooting\" definition of the 2006 paper, between 1996 :\n\nAs a result of the 1987 Hungerford massacre and 1996 Dunblane school massacre mass shootings, the United Kingdom enacted tough gun laws and a buyback program to remove guns from private ownership. There have been two mass shootings since the laws were restricted, the Cumbria shootings in 2010 which killed 13 people and the Moss Side mass shooting in 2018, in which no-one was killed.\n\nIn the United States, support for gun law reform varies considerably by political party, with Democrats generally more supportive and Republicans generally more opposed. Some in the U.S. believe that tightening gun laws would prevent future mass shootings. Some politicians in the U.S. introduced legislation to reform the background check system for purchasing a gun. A vast majority of Americans support tighter background checks. \"According to a poll [Made by CNN] by Quinnipiac University in Connecticut, 93 percent of registered voters said they would support universal background checks for all gun buyers.\"\n\nOthers contend that mass shootings should not be the main focus in the gun law reform debate because these shootings account for less than one percent of the U.S. homicide rate and believe that these shootings are hard to stop. They often argue that civilians with concealed guns will be able to stop shootings.\n\nGun control policies may cause a lot of controversy due to divided opinions on who should be able to carry a weapon. An opinion survey was conducted by the firm GfK Knowledge Networks to differentiate between the different attitudes towards gun control. There was a gun policy survey and a mental illness survey. Studies showed that over 85% of those questioned supported national background checks into the mental health records of citizens attempting to purchase a gun. More than 50% of people felt that those suffering with mental health issues were more deviant and threatening than those who had good mental health. The study also proved that there is large interest in contributing to mental health awareness as well as simply prohibiting those suffering from purchasing guns. Nearly two thirds of respondents supported greater government spending on mental health, with more than 60% of people believing this would reduce gun violence in the USA. (Colleen L. Barry, 2013)\n\nAs of June 2016, U.S. President Barack Obama had spoken in the aftermath of fourteen mass shootings during his nearly eight-year presidency, repeatedly calling for more gun safety laws in the United States. After the Charleston church shooting, U.S. President Barack Obama said, \"At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries. It doesn't happen in other places with this kind of frequency.\" After the December 2015 San Bernardino attack, Obama renewed his call for reforming gun-safety laws and also said that the frequency of mass shootings in the United States has \"no parallel in the world\". After the February 2018 attack at Florida's Parkland school shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School, the school's student survivors, teachers, and parents became strong leaders in the effort to ban assault weapon sales and easy accessibility to military weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19820632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19820632", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Portugal)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Portugal)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice () is the Portuguese government ministry responsible for the administration of the judiciary system. It is headed by the Minister of Justice.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice should not be confused with the Public Ministry. This last one is not a Government ministry - despite the name - but the independent body of magistrates of the Judiciary charged with the public prosecution and the legal representation of the State before the courts.\n\nUnlike usual in other countries, the Portuguese Minister of Justice does not have any kind of hierarchic authority over the public prosecutors.\n\nThe roles of the Ministry of Justice include:\n\nThe present Ministry of Justice was created in 1821 as the Secretariat of State of the Ecclesiastical and Justice Affairs (also referred as the Ministry of Ecclesiastical and Justice Affairs). In 1910, it became the Ministry of Justice and Cults and in 1940, it became the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice is headed by the minister, assisted by the Secretary of State of Justice.\n\nThe following agencies are part of the Ministry of Justice:\n\nMilitary Dictatorship (1926-1928)\n\n"}
{"id": "22990391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22990391", "title": "Mitigating evidence", "text": "Mitigating evidence\n\nMitigating evidence is evidence that is provided (usually by the defendant in a criminal trial) in order to try to establish the presence of mitigating circumstances. The presence of mitigating circumstances can reduce the punishment imposed for the offense. The case of the \"Oregon v. Guzek\" dealt with the issue of whether alibi evidence not introduced at trial could be introduced in the sentencing phase of a death penalty trial as mitigating evidence.\n"}
{"id": "20278278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20278278", "title": "National Association for Court Management", "text": "National Association for Court Management\n\nThe National Association for Court Management (NACM) is a non-profit organization in the United States that promotes professional management education for court administrators and judges.\n\nIn the United States and most other countries in the common law tradition, supervising judges continue their traditional role as the presiding authorities in the bureaucracy of court systems. However, the latter half of the twentieth century saw the increasing professionalization of non-judicial court administrators and staff. In many court systems today, responsibility for court operations is delegated almost entirely to professional court managers, freeing judges and their legal clerks to devote their time to the work of interpreting and applying the law.\n\nThe mission of NACM is to provide a national forum for court professionals and, more importantly, to promote the fair and impartial administration of justice. Through NACM, court administrators increase the publics’ understanding of the judicial system and provide for equal access to justice for all. The association offers court management an ethical code of conduct to promote professionalism and competence throughout the system. The association improves the profession through education, the exchange of information and ideas, and the application of best practices in management. NACM supports research to shape and develop the court management field. Court administrators are guardians of the independence of the judiciary as the 3rd and independent branch of government and they safeguard the impartiality of administration of the courts.\n\nNACM collaborates in training programs with Michigan State University, the National Center for State Courts, and the Institute for Court Management. NACM is well known for its creation of the Core Competencies in the late 1990s, which were revised as the Core®, in 2014. NACM has also drafted a Model Code of Conduct for Court Professionals.\n\nNACM was founded in 1985 through the combination of two pre-existing associations: the National Association of Trial Court Administrators (founded in 1965) and the National Association for Court Administration (founded in 1968). It claims to be the largest organization of court management professionals in the world, with more than 1,800 members from the United States, Canada, Australia, and other countries.\n\nThe current president of NACM is Paul DeLosh, currently working as the Director of Judicial Services for the Virginia Supreme Court . NACM is headquartered in Williamsburg, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "3114162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114162", "title": "Parental responsibility (access and custody)", "text": "Parental responsibility (access and custody)\n\nIn the nations of the European Union and in the United Kingdom, parental responsibility refers to the rights and privileges which underpin the relationship between the children and the children's parents and those adults who are granted parental responsibility by either signing a 'parental responsibility agreement' with the mother or getting a 'parental responsibility order' from a court. The terminology for this area of law now includes matters dealt with as contact (visitation in the United States) and residence (see Residence in English law) in some states.\n\nIn Scots law, issues relative to parental responsibilities are dealt with under the Children (Scotland) Act 1995, which provides for the making of 'residence' (custody), 'contact' (access), and 'specific issue' orders. These may be applied for by anyone with an interest in a child, not merely parents. Under section 1 of the 1995 Act, parental responsibilities are, where practicable and in the best interests of the child, to: \nThese responsibilities last until the child is aged 16, with the exception of the responsibility to provide the child with appropriate guidance, which lasts until the child is aged 18. \nUnder section 2 of the 1995 Act those with parental responsibilities are given correlative rights to allow them to fulfill those responsibilities. These rights are:\nHaving PRRs entitles a parent to take key decisions relating to the child, such as where they will live and go to school, and what medical treatment they should receive. In addition, parents have an obligation to provide financial support for their children under the Family Law (Scotland) Act 1985 (c 37) and the Child Support Act 1991 (c 38). In certain circumstances, this obligation continues when the child in question is beyond the age at which the parents have parental responsibilities under section 1 of the 1995 Act. The child’s mother (irrespective of whether she is married to the child’s father (s3(1)(a))) and the child’s father, if he is “married to the mother at the time of the child’s conception or subsequently” (s 3(1)(b)), have automatic rights. In line with Scottish Law Commission proposals in 1992, the Family Law (Scotland) Act 2006 has brought Scots law in line with English law to the extent that an unmarried father will obtain parental rights and responsibilities if he is registered as the father on the birth register. A married father’s PRRs continue after divorce, unless they are specifically removed by a court. If unmarried fathers or stepparents do not have PRRs, they must either make a Section 4 Agreement, or apply to the court under section 11 for rights.\n\nAccording to the Children Act 1989, Section 3, parental responsibility means \"all the rights, duties, powers, responsibilities and authority which by law a parent of a child has in relation to the child and his property.\" Section 2 states that if the mother and father are married to each other at the time of birth, both acquire parental responsibility, otherwise, the mother automatically acquires it and the father has 3 ways of acquiring it: a) he becomes registered as the child’s father according to specific paragraphs or sub-paragraphs in the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953, the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965, or the Births and Deaths Registration (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 (b)he and the child’s mother make a parental responsibility agreement in which he acquires parental responsibility for the child or (c)the court orders that he shall have parental responsibility for the child. This act also states the process for second female parents and step-parents, to acquire parental responsibility as well as the appointment of guardians. A court can only appoint a guardian to a child who has no parent with parental responsibility for him/her or if the individual with whom a child was to live according to an applicable child arrangement order has died. \n\nParental responsibility cannot be transferred or surrendered, completely or in part. Individuals may delegate the responsibility to someone else but this doesn't mean that they aren't responsible anymore. In other words, they would still be liable for the child. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19608914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19608914", "title": "Payne v Cave", "text": "Payne v Cave\n\nPayne v Cave (1789) 3 TR 148 is an old English contract law case, which stands for the proposition that an auctioneer's request for bids is not an offer but an invitation to treat. The bidders make the offers which can be accepted by the auctioneer.\n\nMr Cave was made the highest bid for a good in an auction. But then, Mr Cave changed his mind and he withdrew his bid before the auctioneer brought down his hammer. \n\nIt was held that Mr. Cave, the defendant, was not bound to purchase the goods. His bid amounted to an offer which he was entitled to withdraw at any time before the auctioneer signified acceptance by knocking down the hammer. Note: The common law\nrule laid down in this case has now been codified in many countries in variations of the Sale of Goods Act, e.g. UK 1979 s57(2).\n\nThe court held that Mr Cave was entitled to withdraw his offer at any time before the auctioneer accepted it. The auctioneer's request for bids was an invitation to treat, and each bid constituted an offer which could be withdrawn at any time until it's accepted, and finally, the fall of the auctioneer's hammer constituted acceptance of the highest bid.\n\n\"Barry v Davies\" qualified \"Payne\" by ruling that if the auction is advertised as being \"without a reserve price\", then the auctioneer is bound to sell to the highest \"bona fide\" bidder (and not the seller himself, as attempted in \"Warlow v Harrison\"). Also, the Sale of Goods Act 1979, s 57 states that if an auction is held without any reserve, then the auctioneer must accept the highest bid (this was subsequently applied in Barry v Davies).\n\nIn opening a contract class at Harvard in the autumn of 1870, Professor Christopher Columbus Langdell, instead of the traditional didactic approach of lecturing a hall of students, pointed to a student and asked, “Mr Fox, will you state the facts of \"Payne v Cave\"?”, then, “Mr Rawle will you give the plaintiff’s argument?” He replied to answers, in Socratic style, with “could you suggest a reason?”. This became known as the case method of legal study, that is followed around most of the common law world today.\n\n"}
{"id": "57892184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57892184", "title": "Personal Data Protection Bill 2018", "text": "Personal Data Protection Bill 2018\n\nThe Personal Data Protection Bill is a Pakistani law that attempts to protect personal data from misuse by corporations and governments. The implementation of GDPR by the European Union impacted the Cyber Law policymakers of Pakistan, the Ministry of Information Technology and Telecommunication.\n\nThey proposed a bill to protect the personal data of Pakistani citizens. According to this bill, \"A Bill to protect people against the violation of their privacy by processing of personal data. Whereas it is expedient to provide for the processing, obtaining, holding, usage and disclosure of data relating to individuals while respecting the rights, freedoms and dignity of natural persons with special regard to their right to privacy, secrecy and personal identity and for matters connected therewith and ancillary thereto.\" With regards into processing, obtaining, holding, usage and disclosure of data, rights should be involved with matters by freedom and dignity and happiness. \n\nThis Act applies to:\n\n\nThe Act is limited to persons established in Pakistan (resident for greater than 180 days) whose personal data is processed by an establishment or others who use equipment in Pakistan for processing personal data for purposes other than transit through Pakistan.\n\nThe penalty for violations is up to 2 years imprisonment and up to a PKR 5 Million fine.\n\nA commission is to be formed within six months of enactment.\n"}
{"id": "69567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69567", "title": "Potiphar and his wife", "text": "Potiphar and his wife\n\nPotiphar () is a person known only from the Book of Genesis' account of Joseph. Potiphar is said to be the captain of the palace guard. In the Quran he is referred to by his title, Aziz. Joseph, sold into slavery by his brothers, is taken to Egypt where he is sold to Potiphar as a household slave. Potiphar makes Joseph the head of his household, but Potiphar's wife, who is not named in the Bible or in Christian tradition, is furious at Joseph for resisting her attempts to seduce him, and falsely accuses him of attempted rape. Potiphar casts Joseph into prison, from where he later comes to the notice of Pharaoh through his ability to interpret the dreams of other prisoners. (Genesis 39-40)\n\nAfter Joseph's interpretation of Pharaoh's dreams and his subsequent appointment as overlord of Egypt, Joseph (renamed Zaphnath-Paaneah) married Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Pherah priest of On. Poti-Pherah may have been the same person as Potiphar, in which case Joseph would likely have been married to the daughter of the woman responsible for his false imprisonment.\n\nThe medieval Sefer HaYashar, a commentary on the Torah, gives Potiphar's wife's name as Zuleikha, as do many Islamic traditions and thus the Persian poem called Yusuf and Zulaikha from Jami's \"Haft Awrang\" (\"Seven thrones\"). Because of the Egyptian location wherein the scene is staged, it is not impossible to detect in this biblical writing also a more recent echo of the very old Egyptian fable of the two brothers Bata and Anpu.\n\nThe story became very common in Western art in the Renaissance and Baroque periods, usually showing the moment when Joseph tears himself away from the bed containing a more or less naked figure of Potiphar's wife. Persian miniatures often illustrate Yusuf and Zulaikha in Jami's \"Haft Awrang\" (\"Seven thrones\").\n\nPotiphar () is the shortened form of פוטיפרע \"Potiphera\" from Late Egyptian \"he whom Ra has given.\" This is analogous to the name \"Theodore\"=\"God's gift\" in the Western world.\n\nIt is difficult to place Potiphar or Joseph accurately to a particular pharaoh or time period. On the Jewish calendar, Joseph was purchased in the year 2216, which is 1544 BC, at the end of the Second Intermediate Period or very beginning of the New Kingdom. The Torah in which the story appears (see also the Bible and the Quran) was the earliest written of the three: c. 600 BC during the Babylonian Exile. According to the documentary hypothesis, the story of Potiphar and his wife is credited to the Yahwist source, and stands in the same place that the stories of the butler and the baker and Pharaoh's dreams stand in the Elohist text.\n\nAccording to Dr. G.J. Wenham (IVP New Bible Commentary) execution was normal for rape cases, and thus the story implies that Potiphar may have had doubts about his wife's account.\n\nThe Book of Abraham, included in the Pearl of Great Price, one of the standard works of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and by churches of the Latter Day Saint movement, refers to a \"Potiphar`s Hill\" in Egypt (Abraham 1:10, 20).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37159673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37159673", "title": "Proclamation of Malaysia", "text": "Proclamation of Malaysia\n\nThe Proclamation of Malaysia (), was a statement, written in English and the Jawi script of Malay, that declared the merger of the Federation of Malaya with the British crown colonies of North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore into the new Federation of Malaysia, following the enactment of the Malaysia Agreement and the Malaysia Act 1963 that July. The merger came into effect on 16 September 1963, and the proclamation was delivered on that date by Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman in the Stadium Merdeka in Kuala Lumpur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890", "title": "Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty", "text": "Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty\n\nThe Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, also known as the Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, or the Madrid Protocol, is part of the Antarctic Treaty System. It provides for comprehensive protection of the Antarctic environment and dependent and associated ecosystems. \n\nIt was concluded in Madrid and opened for signature on October 4, 1991 and entered into force on January 14, 1998. The treaty will be open for review in 2048.\n\n\nAs of May 2013, the protocol has been ratified by 34 parties — Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, the People's Republic of China, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, United Kingdom, United States, and Uruguay.\n\nA further 11 states — Austria, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Guatemala, Hungary, North Korea, Papua New Guinea, Slovakia, Switzerland, and Turkey — have signed but not yet ratified it.\n\nThe treaty followed a lengthy campaign by Greenpeace, including the construction of an Antarctic base from 1987 to 1991. Greenpeace claims the protocol as a victory.\n\nMadrid Dome in Aristotle Mountains, Antarctica is named in connection with the Protocol.\n\n"}
{"id": "11399141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11399141", "title": "Quasi-criminal", "text": "Quasi-criminal\n\nQuasi-criminal means a lawsuit or equity proceeding that has some, but not all, of the qualities of a criminal prosecution. It may appear in either a Common law or a Civil law jurisdiction. It refers to \"a court's right to punish for actions or omissions as if they were criminal\".\n\nThe origins of the phrase comes from the Latin language word, \"quasi\", meaning somewhat, sort-of, alike or akin, to criminal law, as in Quasi-contract. \"Quasi\" is used \"to indicate that one subject resembles another, with which it is compared, in certain characteristics, but there are intrinsic and material differences between them\".\n\nDuring a civil or equity trial, a court may act as if it were a criminal case to punish a person for contempt of court. In some cases, a court may impose asset forfeiture or another penalty. For example, a court has the right to punish actions or omissions of a party in a child support case as if they were a criminal, penalizing the parent with a sentence of jail time.\n\n\"Quasi-criminal proceedings\" include a wide variety of matters, including prosecution for a violation of law or ordinance, psychiatric matters, motor vehicle law, status offenses, family court actions, and equity proceedings such as a Writ. What these various legal matters have in common are these factors:\n\n\"Quasi-criminal\" actions include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41079478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41079478", "title": "R v Walker", "text": "R v Walker\n\nR v Walker was an English Crown Court case that was a test of the Obscene Publications Act 1959. It was the first such prosecution involving written material in nearly two decades and set a precedent for using the act to prosecute web fiction. In October 2008, the defendant, English Civil Servant Darryn Walker was charged with publishing an obscene story on the Internet contrary to Section 2(1) of the Act. Media controversy was generated because the story in question was a real person fiction text horror story describing the imagined murder of the members of British pop group Girls Aloud. The case was abruptly abandoned on its first day and the defendant was cleared of all charges.\n\nOn 26 July 2007, UK tabloid newspaper \"The Daily Star\" reported that it had discovered an online text story about British pop group Girls Aloud that it described as \"a chilling story detailing each singer's gory death in scenes that could be straight out of a horror movie\", characterizing its author as \"a vile internet psycho\" and \"a cyber-sicko\". The news story said that \"The Daily Star\" had reported the content of the hosting website, \"Kristen Archives\" (a subsite of the ASSTR archive), to the Internet Watch Foundation, and that the IWF had traced the site to the US. It also claimed that Interpol had been notified to help track down the site's operators and the writer of the story. An IWF spokesperson was reported as saying that since the site was hosted in the US, it fell outside the organization's remit, but that they were aware of the site. The spokesperson added that the site also contained \"child abuse fantasy stories\" and that they had passed on details of it to the British police.\n\nThe story, entitled \"Girls (Scream) Aloud\", had been posted from within the jurisdiction of the UK on a website hosted in the US. Although submitted under a pseudonym, the posting included a traceable email address. Officers from Scotland Yard’s Obscene Publications Unit decided to take action over the story after consulting the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), and on 25 September 2008 it was announced that the author, Darryn Walker, was to be prosecuted for the online publication of material that the police and the CPS believed was obscene. It was the first such prosecution for written material since the landmark obscenity cases of the '60s and '70s, and was expected to have a significant impact on the future regulation of the Internet in the UK.\n\nWalker appeared in court on 22 October 2008 to face charges of \"publishing an obscene article contrary to Section 2(1) of the Obscene Publications Act 1959\". He was granted unconditional bail, and his case was initially set for trial on 16 March 2009. However, at a directions hearing in January, the defendant made it known that given the seriousness of the case he would be represented by a QC (Queen's Counsel), following which the Crown Prosecution Service gave notice of its intention to similarly employ a QC, and the trial was postponed to 29 June 2009.\n\nWalker appeared at Newcastle Crown Court on 29 June 2009 but the case was abandoned on what was supposed to be the first day of the trial, following the introduction of evidence from an IT expert. The CPS said that it had originally charged Walker as it believed that the story in question could be \"easily accessed\" by young fans of Girls Aloud. This was because of the definition of obscenity used in the act, which requires prosecutors to prove that those exposed to the material were previously unaware of its obscene nature. Those who actively seek out such material are deemed unlikely to be corrupted by it. However, the IT expert showed that the article could only be located by those specifically searching for such material. A spokesperson for the CPS said that the prosecution was unable to provide sufficient evidence to contradict this new evidence and therefore took the decision that there was no longer a realistic prospect of conviction. Judge Esmond Faulks, presiding, returned a formal verdict of not guilty to the charge of \"publishing an obscene article\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9351472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9351472", "title": "Regulatory reform", "text": "Regulatory reform\n\nRegulatory reform concerns improvements to the quality of government regulation.\n\nAt the international level, the \"OECD Regulatory Reform Programme is aimed at helping governments improve regulatory quality - that is, reforming regulations that raise unnecessary obstacles to competition, innovation and growth, while ensuring that regulations efficiently serve important social objectives\".\n\nThe OECD produced a report in September 2012 reviewing Indonesia's regulatory reform programme, focusing on Indonesia's administrative and institutional arrangements for ensuring that regulations are effective and efficient.\n\nThe Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 aimed in part to \"make provision for the reduction of legislative burdens\". Part 5, \"Reduction of legislative burdens\", made provision for \"sunset and review provisions\" in secondary legislation, i.e.\n\nThe Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 sought to improve the regulation of businesses requiring certain environmental permits within Scotland whilst strengthening existing environmental protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "28189112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28189112", "title": "Rosetta Stone decree", "text": "Rosetta Stone decree\n\nThe Decree of Memphis (Ptolemy V) is the third Memphis decree, the first being for his grandfather Ptolemy III (Decree of Canopus), and the second being The Raphia Decree (Ptolemy IV). The Decree for Ptolemy V is the text recorded on the Rosetta Stone (issued at Memphis in 196 BC) in the Egyptian hieroglyphs, Demotic (Egyptian) script, and Greek.\n\nThe Hellenistic Ptolemaic dynasty, which ruled Egypt from 305 BC to 30 BC, issued a series of decrees over the course of their reign. The Rosetta Stone is the best known example.\n\nAfter six lines of preview on the Nubayrah Stele, the decree: \"...Eirene, daughter of Ptolemy priestess of Arsinoe, the lover of her father; day this Decree, being the directors (superintendents) of services (?)...\", (the Priests Decree:)\n\nThe completed accomplishment list is then followed by \"And a Happening Good [may there be]\"\n\nThe list of rewards given by the gods and goddesses is also referencing: A.U.S. (Life, Dominion, Health), commonly translated, or transcribed as \"Life, Prosperity, Health\". It is an acronym, and commonly followed the reference to \"Pharaoh, aus\". (i.e. Pharaoh, life, dominion, health), in Egyptian: \"Pharaoh, ankh, wedja, seneb\". –(or \"ankh, utcha, senbi\")\n\nThe list of 8 rewards is preceded by:\n\nThe Egyptian language hieroglyphs for a \"good luck\" quote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50651506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50651506", "title": "Ryan Morrison", "text": "Ryan Morrison\n\nRyan Morrison, commonly known as Video Game Attorney, is a United States attorney who specializes in law of interest to fans of video games and Internet culture.\n\nMorrison's habit of participating in Reddit has been analyzed as a business marketing strategy. He advocates for independent developers of popular Internet media and video games.\n\nMorrison became a center of attention in the React World controversy when the Reddit community and others began to call on him for his legal insights on copyright and his engagement in copyright activism. His participation in the issue was an important factor in the resolution of the issue in favor of the activists.\n\nMorrison is known for speaking against Facebook for allowing the negative effects of freebooting to impact small content creators.\n"}
{"id": "34636763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34636763", "title": "Secretary for Justice v Yau Yuk Lung Zigo", "text": "Secretary for Justice v Yau Yuk Lung Zigo\n\nSecretary for Justice v Yau Yuk Lung Zigo and Another () was a controversial and significant judicial review court case in Hong Kong. The case was mainly about sexual orientation discrimination and legal procedures of potentially unconstitutional legislation. The case also led to the creation of a new judicial review standard regarding discrimination and, later on, the extension of protection against domestic violence for LGBT community.\n\nIn April 2004, the two male respondents in the case, who were 19 and 30 at the time, were found in engaging anal sex in a car parked beside a quiet and dark highway. The two were then prosecuted and charged with violations of Crimes Ordinance Section 118F(1) which prohibited sodomy in public. The case was the very first prosecution of Section 118F(1) since the enactment in 1991. The case was brought before a magistrate judge, Mr John T. Glass, whom then ruled Section 118F(1) unconstitutionally discriminatory against gay men and thus dismissed the charges.\n\nThe Government then appealed to the Court of Appeal. The appellate court subsequently upheld the magistrate’s rulings. The case was, once again, appealed and brought before the Court of Final Appeal which ruled on the case in July 2007. The Court of Final Appeal upheld the lower courts’ rulings regarding the discriminatory nature of Section 118F(1) but revised the decisions relating to the legal procedures of a magistrate dismissing unconstitutional charges for future cases. \n\nIn assessing the constitutionality of Crimes Ordinance Section 118F(1), the Court of Final Appeal created the justification test. The test had been used in other cases but was only formally formulated and named in the case.\n\nThe Court ruled that equal protection was fundamental and essential to every Hong Kong citizen. However, the Court also recognised the fact that strict equal treatments may cause more harm than good, and different treatments may be warranted under certain circumstances. The Court thus created the justification test for assessing the legality of differential treatments. Any governmental differential treatments that could survive under the scrutiny of the justification test would be deemed constitutional. The Court laid out the requirements under the test:\n\nBefore hearing the oral arguments, the Court of Final Appeal identified two issues:\n\nYes\n\nThe Government argued that Section 118F(1) was a formalised, enacted specific common law offence to protect the public from behaviours outraging public decency. The Government also indicated that the Legislature must have taken considerations of genuine needs for enacting the law to regulate homosexual conduct. \n\nThe Court ruled that the Government’s concept of a genuine need could be established through the mere act of legislative enactment was plainly wrong. The Court also ruled that the Government failed to identify and make out any genuine needs for enacting Section 118F(1). The Court thus held that Section 118F(1) failed to pass the first hurdle of the justification test. Consequently, Section 118F(1) was declared unconstitutional for infringing the respondents’ right to equality guaranteed under Articles 25 and 39 of the Basic Law and Articles 1 and 22 of the Bill of Rights Ordinance.\n\nThe Court agreed with the Government that the Legislature had the right to pass laws protecting the community from outraging public sexual conduct, but the Court emphasised that the Legislature should never have done so in a discriminatory way. The Court pointed out that Section 118F(1) was discriminatory by singling out and criminalising homosexual buggery but no similar laws against heterosexual buggery or other comparable heterosexual acts. And without any satisfactory justifications, the Court could only uphold the lower courts' rulings regarding the unconstitutional nature of Section 118F(1). \n\nBoth parties, the Government and the respondents, of the case stated that the Magistrate had mistakenly dismissed the charges after the declaration of Section 118F(1) unconstitutional. Both sides, at first, suggested different ways for properly dealing with the matter; however, they later on agreed that the Magistrate should have followed the instructions laid out in Section 27 of the Magistrates Ordinance. Thus, the Court was asked for clarification. \n\nThe Court upheld the approach of following Magistrates Ordinance Section 27 suggested by the parties. The Court ruled that the Magistrate could have amended and substituted the unconstitutional charges of Section 118F(1) with noncontroversial offences through following the instructions provided under Magistrates Ordinance Section 27 without dismissing the case. And through following Section 27, the Court also indicated that the Magistrate could have utilised Section 105 of the Magistrates Ordinance and requested the opinion from a higher court regarding the constitutionality of Section 118F(1). \n\n\nThe Equal Opportunities Commission suggested the Legislative Council to extend the protection covered under the Domestic Violence Ordinance to same sex couples in case of potential violations of this case’s merits.\n\n"}
{"id": "53313647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53313647", "title": "Shram suvidha", "text": "Shram suvidha\n\nShram Suvidha is a Web Portal to provide a single platform for all labour compliances.\n\nIndia has more than 40 labour laws regulated by theMinistry of Labour and Employment, the Government of India and State Government. Compliance with these laws is tedious and time-consuming. As a result, employers often do not comply. The scale of noncompliance exceeds the ability of enforcement agencies to regulate. Amidst the confusion, employees do not always receive what they are entitled to under these laws. \n\nThe primary objectives of Shram Suvidha are:\n\n\nShram Suvidha allows an organization to know what labour laws apply to it.\n\nCompliances are reportable in a single form that makes it simple for those filing such forms. Performance is monitored using key indicators thus making the evaluation process objective. It promotes the use of a common Labour Identification Number (LIN) by all Implementing agencies.\n"}
{"id": "8987685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8987685", "title": "Slave Trade Act", "text": "Slave Trade Act\n\nSlave Trade Act is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom and the United States that relates to the slave trade.\n\nThe \"See also\" section lists other Slave Acts, laws, and international conventions which developed the concept of slavery, and then the resolution and abolition of slavery.\n\n\n\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nUnited States\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "2994835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994835", "title": "Southern Reporter", "text": "Southern Reporter\n\nThe Southern Reporter, the \"Southern Reporter Second\", and the \"Southern Reporter Third\" are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for the West Publishing Company.\n\nThe \"Southern Reporter\" contains published appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, the \"Southern Reporter\", the \"Southern Reporter Second\", and the \"Southern Reporter Third\" are abbreviated \"So.\", \"So. 2d\", and \"So. 3d\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "7579923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7579923", "title": "Supreme Electoral Council (Nicaragua)", "text": "Supreme Electoral Council (Nicaragua)\n\nThe Supreme Electoral Council (, CSE) is an autonomous, public organization responsible for organizing elections in Nicaragua. \n\nRoberto Rivas Reyes has been president of the CSE since July 2000, though as of January 2018, vice-president Lumberto Campbell functioned as acting head of the organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "55837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55837", "title": "Taft–Hartley Act", "text": "Taft–Hartley Act\n\nThe Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 , better known as the Taft–Hartley Act, (80 H.R. 3020, ) is a United States federal law that restricts the activities and power of labor unions. The act, still effective, was sponsored by Senator Robert A. Taft and Representative Fred A. Hartley, Jr., and became law despite U.S. President Harry S. Truman's veto on June 23, 1947. Labor leaders called it the \"slave-labor bill\" while President Truman argued that it was a \"dangerous intrusion on free speech\", arguing that it would \"conflict with important principles of our democratic society\". Nevertheless, after it passed Truman relied upon it in twelve instances during his presidency. The Taft–Hartley Act amended the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA; informally the Wagner Act), which Congress passed in 1935. The principal author of the Taft–Hartley Act was J. Mack Swigert, of the Cincinnati law firm Taft, Stettinius & Hollister.\n\nTaft–Hartley was one of more than 250 union-related bills pending in both houses of Congress in 1947. After World War II, 25 percent of the workforce was unionized (around 14.8 million workers had union contracts, 10 million of them being union security agreements), and with the war now over, their promise not to strike so as not to impede the war effort had expired.\n\nAs a response to the rising union movement and Cold War hostilities, the bill could be seen as a response by business to the post–World War II labor upsurge of 1946. During the year after V-J Day, more than five million American workers were involved in strikes, which lasted on average four times longer than those during the war.\n\nThe Taft–Hartley Act was seen as a means of demobilizing the labor movement by imposing limits on labor's ability to strike and by prohibiting radicals from their leadership. The law was promoted by large business lobbies including the National Association of Manufacturers.\n\nAs stated in Section 1 (), the purpose of the NLRA is:\n[T]o promote the full flow of commerce, to prescribe the legitimate rights of both employees and employers in their relations affecting commerce, to provide orderly and peaceful procedures for preventing the interference by either with the legitimate rights of the other, to protect the rights of individual employees in their relations with labor organizations whose activities affect commerce, to define and proscribe practices on the part of labor and management which affect commerce and are inimical to the general welfare, and to protect the rights of the public in connection with labor disputes affecting commerce.\n\nThe amendments enacted in Taft–Hartley added a list of prohibited actions, or unfair labor practices, on the part of unions to the NLRA, which had previously only prohibited unfair labor practices committed by employers. The Taft–Hartley Act prohibited jurisdictional strikes, wildcat strikes, solidarity or political strikes, secondary boycotts, secondary and mass picketing, closed shops, and monetary donations by unions to federal political campaigns. It also required union officers to sign non-communist affidavits with the government. Union shops were heavily restricted, and states were allowed to pass right-to-work laws that ban agency fees. Furthermore, the executive branch of the federal government could obtain legal strikebreaking injunctions if an impending or current strike imperiled the national health or safety.\n\nIn \"jurisdictional strikes\", outlawed by Taft–Hartley, a union strikes in order to assign particular work to the employees it represents. \"Secondary boycotts\" and \"common situs picketing\", also outlawed by the act, are actions in which unions picket, strike, or refuse to handle the goods of a business with which they have no primary dispute but which is associated with a targeted business. A later statute, the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act, passed in 1959, tightened these restrictions on secondary boycotts still further.\n\nAccording to First Amendment scholar Floyd Abrams, the Act \"was the first law barring unions and corporations from making independent expenditures in support of or [in] opposition to federal candidates\".\n\nThe outlawed \"closed shops\" were contractual agreements that required an employer to hire only labor union members. \"Union shops\", still permitted, require new recruits to join the union within a certain amount of time. The National Labor Relations Board and the courts have added other restrictions on the power of unions to enforce union security clauses and have required them to make extensive financial disclosures to all members as part of their duty of fair representation. On the other hand, Congress repealed the provisions requiring a vote by workers to authorize a union shop a few years after the passage of the Act when it became apparent that workers were approving them in virtually every case.\n\nThe amendments also authorized individual states to outlaw \"union security clauses\" (such as the union shop) entirely in their jurisdictions by passing right-to-work laws. A right-to-work law, under Section 14B of Taft–Hartley, prevents unions from negotiating contracts or legally binding documents requiring companies to fire workers who refuse to join the union. Currently all of the states in the Deep South and a number of states in the Midwest, Great Plains, and Rocky Mountains regions have right-to-work laws (with six states—Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Mississippi, and Oklahoma—going one step further and enshrining right-to-work laws in their states' constitutions).\n\nThe amendments required unions and employers to give 80 days' notice to each other and to certain state and federal mediation bodies before they may undertake strikes or other forms of economic action in pursuit of a new collective bargaining agreement; it did not, on the other hand, impose any \"cooling-off period\" after a contract expired. The Act also authorized the President to intervene in strikes or potential strikes that create a national emergency, a reaction to the national coal miners' strikes called by the United Mine Workers of America in the 1940s. Presidents have used that power less and less frequently in each succeeding decade. President George W. Bush invoked the law in connection with the employer lockout of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union during negotiations with West Coast shipping and stevedoring companies in 2002.\n\nThe Act also prohibited federal employees from striking.\n\nThe amendments required union leaders to file affidavits with the United States Department of Labor declaring that they were not supporters of the Communist Party and had no relationship with any organization seeking the \"overthrow of the United States government by force or by any illegal or unconstitutional means\" as a condition to participating in NLRB proceedings. Just over a year after Taft–Hartley passed, 81,000 union officers from nearly 120 unions had filed the required affidavits. In 1965, The Supreme Court held that this provision was an unconstitutional bill of attainder.\n\nThe amendments expressly excluded supervisors from coverage under the act, and allowed employers to terminate supervisors engaging in union activities or those not supporting the employer's stance. The amendments maintained coverage under the act for professional employees, but provided for special procedures before they may be included in the same bargaining unit as non-professional employees.\n\nThe Act revised the Wagner Act's requirement of employer neutrality, to allow employers to deliver anti-union messages in the workplace. These changes confirmed an earlier Supreme Court ruling that employers have a constitutional right to express their opposition to unions, so long as they did not threaten employees with reprisals for their union activities nor offer any incentives to employees as an alternative to unionizing. The amendments also gave employers the right to file a petition asking the Board to determine if a union represents a majority of its employees, and allow employees to petition either to decertify their union, or to invalidate the union security provisions of any existing collective bargaining agreement.\n\nThe amendments gave the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board discretionary power to seek injunctions against either employers or unions that violated the Act. The law made pursuit of such injunctions mandatory, rather than discretionary, in the case of secondary boycotts by unions. The amendments also established the General Counsel’s autonomy within the administrative framework of the NLRB. Congress also gave employers the right to sue unions for damages caused by a secondary boycott, but gave the General Counsel exclusive power to seek injunctive relief against such activities.\n\nThe act provided for federal court jurisdiction to enforce collective bargaining agreements. Although Congress passed this section to empower federal courts to hold unions liable in damages for strikes violating a no-strike clause, this part of the act has instead served as the springboard for creation of a \"federal common law\" of collective bargaining agreements, which favored arbitration over litigation or strikes as the preferred means of resolving labor disputes.\n\nThe Congress that passed the Taft–Hartley Amendments considered repealing the Norris–La Guardia Act to the extent necessary to permit courts to issue injunctions against strikes violating a no-strike clause, but chose not to do so. The Supreme Court nonetheless held several decades later that the act implicitly gave the courts the power to enjoin such strikes over subjects that would be subject to final and binding arbitration under a collective bargaining agreement.\n\nFinally, the act imposed a number of procedural and substantive standards that unions and employers must meet before they may use employer funds to provide pensions and other employee benefit to unionized employees. Congress has since passed more extensive protections for workers and employee benefit plans as part of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\").\n\nAfter spending several days considering how to respond to the bill, Truman vetoed Taft–Hartley with a strong message to Congress. Truman had expressed no opinion on the bill prior to his veto message. The committees considering the bill had requested suggestions from the Truman administration, but did not receive any. With the administration taking no stand on the bill, it passed both houses with strong bipartisan support. A clear majority of House Democrats voted for the bill, while Democrats in the Senate split evenly, 21–21.\n\nDespite Truman's all-out effort to stop the veto override, Congress overrode his veto with considerable Democratic support, including 106 out of 177 Democrats in the House, and 20 out of 42 Democrats in the Senate.\n\nUnion leaders in the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) vigorously campaigned for Truman in the 1948 election based upon a (never fulfilled) promise to repeal Taft–Hartley. Truman won, but a union-backed effort in Ohio to defeat Taft in 1950 failed in what one author described as \"a shattering demonstration of labor's political weaknesses\". Organized labor nearly succeeded in pushing Congress to amend the law to increase the protections for strikers and targets of employer retaliation during the Carter and Clinton administrations, but failed on both occasions because of Republican opposition and lukewarm support for these changes from the Democratic President in office at the time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39837077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39837077", "title": "Types of abortion restrictions in the United States", "text": "Types of abortion restrictions in the United States\n\nAbortion restrictions in the United States are laws intended or resulting in restricting the availability or practice of abortions in the United States. Though the Supreme Court in \"Roe v. Wade\" recognized a legal right for a woman in the United States to get an abortion, and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" invalidated certain restrictions that create an undue burden on women seeking abortions, these cases permit states to make certain restrictions in the guise of regulation of the practice, but which they argue do not create an “undue burden”. Some state laws that impact on the availability of abortions have been upheld. Regulations imposed by individual states that have impacted on the availability of abortions, particularly in the 2010s, include requiring a woman seeking an abortion to view an ultrasound, requiring abortion providers to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals, and long waiting periods after the first consultation with the abortion provider. \n\nNevertheless, abortion remains legal in all U.S. states, and every state has at least one abortion clinic.\n\nSome states impose regulations that apply only to abortion clinics, sometimes called TRAP (targeted regulation of abortion providers) laws, which according to \"Mother Jones\" and \"The New Republic\" impose standards that may be arbitrary or difficult to implement and are aimed at closing abortion clinics. For example, some laws require abortion clinics to meet the same standards as ambulatory surgical centers, which entail renovations that are prohibitively expensive for some clinics.\n\nOther regulations require doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital. Some hospitals refuse admitting privileges to doctors who perform abortions. Critics of admitting privileges laws and other TRAP laws include the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Public Health Association, and the American Medical Association, which have argued that such laws are medically unnecessary and that abortion is already very safe in the United States.\n\nFrom 2011, the crimes of Kermit Gosnell, a physician who ran an abortion clinic in Philadelphia, spurred federal and state bills to more strictly regulate abortion facilities. Opponents of the restrictions questioned whether stricter regulations would have deterred Gosnell, who was alleged to be knowingly in violation of existing regulations.\n\nSupporters of Texas Senate Bill 5, which included requirements for abortion clinics to meet ambulatory surgical center regulations and for abortion clinic doctors to have hospital admitting privileges, said the bill improved health care for women and babies. Opponents of the bill said it created unnecessary regulations for the purpose of reducing access to abortions. At the time of the bill's signing into law in 2013, five of the state's forty-two abortion clinics met the law's requirements. Courts had blocked enforcement of similar laws in some other states, pending lawsuits challenging their constitutionality. A federal district judge determined this law to be unconstitutional, finding that the admitting privileges requirement placed an undue burden on a person seeking to have an abortion; however, this decision was reversed by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, resulting in the immediate closure of all but seven abortion clinics in the state, all of these in urban areas. For patients in Texas's Rio Grande valley, the nearest clinic is now 300 miles away.\n\nFollowing the passage of a 2013 Wisconsin law requiring abortion providers to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital, three Catholic hospital systems in the state intended to deny admitting privileges to abortion providers. Wisconsin's attorney general said this intent violated the Church Amendment of 1973, which prohibits hospitals receiving federal funds from discriminating against a doctor on the basis of whether the doctor provides abortions.\n\nIn Maryland, according to \"The New York Times\", something \"rare in this era of polarized abortion politics\" occurred when laws that significantly tightened the licensing and inspection of abortion clinics were supported by those on both sides of the abortion issue.\n\nOn November 4, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the state of Oklahoma to the overturning, on constitutional grounds, of a bill intended to ban the practice of terminations of early pregnancies via medications.\n\nAs of March 2012, 20 states require women seeking an abortion to have an ultrasound before being allowed to have the procedure. Mandatory transvaginal ultrasounds have been particularly controversial. In Texas, for instance, even if previous ultrasounds had indicated severe congenital defects, a woman seeking an abortion was required under a 2012 law to have another ultrasound done, \"administered by her abortion doctor, and [she had to] listen to a state-mandated description of the fetus she was about to abort\", though state-issued guidelines later did away with that ultrasound if the fetus had an \"irreversible medical condition\".\n\nOn November 12, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the state of Oklahoma to the overturning of a bill that mandated compulsory ultrasound examinations.\n\nSome states require that a person seeking an abortion wait for a period of one to six days, variously, after visiting the provider for the first time and before having the abortion. The state of South Dakota requires that the patient obtain mandatory counseling from an anti-abortion crisis pregnancy center during this time frame.\n\nThis type of legislation requires either that a woman be required to listen to her fetus's heartbeat should she attempt to obtain an abortion, or, more rigidly, that abortion become illegal as soon as a heartbeat can be detected, which is sometimes as early as six weeks.\n\nIn some states, a doctor who is asked to perform an abortion is required to read a prepared script to the patient in order to secure informed consent. These scripts may include medically inaccurate information intended to persuade the patient not to have an abortion, such as the claim that the abortion will increase the risk of breast cancer or of psychological problems, which are not supported by mainstream medical organizations or scientific consensus. As of July 2013, 12 states require that women be given information on the ability of a fetus to feel pain. In \"Planned Parenthood v. Rounds\", the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that a South Dakota law requiring doctors to give patients false or misleading information about the suicide risk in women who have abortions was not unconstitutional.\n\nA 1997 Louisiana law creates a civil cause of action for abortion-related damages, including damage to the unborn, for up to ten years after the abortion. The same law also bars the state's Patient's Compensation Fund, which limits malpractice liability for participating physicians, from insuring against abortion-related claims. An attorney for the Center for Reproductive Rights, which opposes the law, said the law is an attempt to drive abortion providers out of practice, and that every completed abortion imposes strict liability under the law because abortion necessarily involves damage to the unborn.\n\nAs of 2010, 46 of 50 states and the District of Columbia had either mandatory or voluntary reporting of abortion statistics. According to an associate of the Guttmacher Institute, reporting requirements were generally \"benign\" and treated confidentially, but the requirements in some states have become more intrusive.\n\nA 2009 Oklahoma law, overturned by a federal court in 2010, would have required doctors to report information from a 37-question form about every woman receiving an abortion to the state health department for publication in an online registry. A lawyer for the Center for Reproductive Rights, a co-plaintiff in the lawsuit challenging the law, said the law would have made public potentially identifying details about women, and was intended to dissuade women from seeking abortions. Todd Lamb, who sponsored the law as a state senator, called it \"essential in protecting the sanctity of life\" and \"pro-life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28831078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831078", "title": "Wartime Law on Industrial Property (Japan)", "text": "Wartime Law on Industrial Property (Japan)\n\nWartime Law on Industrial Property (Kogyo Shoyuken Senji Ho) was a special law enacted by the Government of Japan in 1917, which declared that any patents owned by the nationals of countries in a state of war with Japan no longer had effect. The impact of this law was both immense and lasting, because a majority of drugs had been invented in Germany and this law meant that Japanese companies could produce them without worrying about patent infringement.\n\nStatistics show that the number of new drugs in 1914 was 658 of which 103, or 16 per cent were developed domestically. By 1928, the number increased 2.6 times to 1,705 and the proportion of domestic development increased to 46 per cent. Further, by 1936, the number of new drugs increased to 2,402 of which more than half, 57 per cent were developed domestically.\n"}
{"id": "25761345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25761345", "title": "Williamson trade-off model", "text": "Williamson trade-off model\n\nThe Williamson trade-off model is a theoretical model in the economics of industrial organization which emphasizes the trade-off associated with horizontal mergers between gains resulting from lower costs of production and the losses associated with higher prices due to greater degree of monopoly power.\n\nThe model was first presented by Oliver Williamson in his 1968 paper \"Economies as an Antitrust Defense: The welfare tradeoffs\" in the \"American Economic Review\". Williamson argued that ignoring efficiencies that may result from proposed mergers in antitrust law \"fail[ed] to meet the basic test of economic rationality\".\n\nSuppose that a given industry is initially characterized by perfect competition and has a constant unit cost of production equal to \"c1\" (assumed the same across all firms in the industry). Because of competition, the market price of the good produced will be equal to this unit cost, which means that firms in the industry earn normal profits, as captured by the producer surplus (the area below the market price, but above the supply/unit cost curve).\n\nSuppose further that after a merger between firms in the industry takes place, unit costs fall to \"c2<c1\" as a result of economies of scale or other forms of synergy. However, the industry is now less competitive, with a monopoly being the most extreme example. Since the firm is no longer a price taker, the price it charges will be above the (now lower) unit cost. For a monopoly, for example, the price will be set where the unit/marginal cost intersects marginal revenue. This means that the amount of consumer surplus, the area below the demand curve and above the price, will be lower.\n\nThe change in overall social surplus of the market depends on whether the increase in producer surplus due to lower production costs is larger or smaller than the fall in consumer surplus due to higher prices. Note that it is theoretically possible that the fall in unit costs due to the merger could be sufficiently large that the post merger monopoly price ends up being lower than the pre merger competitive price in which case both producer and consumer surplus would increase. In that situation no trade-off exists and the merger is unambiguously beneficial to all market participants. More generally however, a horizontal merger can involve both costs and benefits.\n\nOne implication of the Williamson model is that the gains from cost reduction do not have to be \"large\" in order to outweigh the losses that result from higher prices.\nThis is because the welfare losses associated with the latter tend to be \"second-order\" (graphically, they are triangles), while the gains tend to be \"first-order\" (rectangles). What this means is that the gains from the merger would have to be very small, or alternatively, the demand for the good in question would have to be relatively quite inelastic for social surplus to decrease.\n\nA broader conclusion of the model is that antitrust, or competition, policy should be \"discretionary\". That is, government regulators who are faced with a proposed merger need to examine each proposal on a case by case basis. In some instances, the cost savings might make it worth the loss of competition, while in others they will not. This is in contrast to a \"non-discretionary\" policy where regulators set certain standards that any industry must meet - for example, that no firm has more than 20% market share. Then, they do not actually examine the potential gains or losses to consumer or producer surplus from a proposed merger, but only its impact on meeting the set standard - for example, whether or not the merger will increase a single firm's market share above 20%.\n\nThe model has been applied to the study of mergers in the US rail freight industry and the US food industry, among others. It has also been used in evaluation of actual antitrust laws by American legal scholar and judge Robert Bork. A regulatory approach based on the model was popular in the United States in the 1980s and influenced much antitrust legislation.\n\n\n"}
