{"id": "15828961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15828961", "title": "Academia Dominicana de la Lengua", "text": "Academia Dominicana de la Lengua\n\nThe Academia Dominicana de la Lengua \nis the Dominican Republic's correspondent academy of the Royal Spanish Academy. It was founded in Santo Domingo on 12 October 1927 and, like the other academies, has the principal function of working to regulate the Spanish language.\n\n"}
{"id": "29784501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29784501", "title": "Annie Patterson", "text": "Annie Patterson\n\nAnnie Wilson Patterson (27 October 1868 – 16 January 1934) was an Irish organist, music educator, writer, composer, and arranger.\n\nAnnie Patterson was born in Lurgan, County Armagh, Ireland, and was related through her mother's family to Lord Macaulay. She made her debut performance in Dublin at age fifteen, studied at Alexandra College and the Royal Irish Academy of Music in Dublin (with Robert Prescott Stewart), and received her doctorate in 1889, becoming the first Irish or British woman to hold a Doctorate of Music. After she completed her studies, she became an examiner for the Royal University of Ireland and worked as an organist and conductor of the Dublin Choral Union and the Hampstead Harmonic Society. In 1897 she co-founded the Feis Ceoil festival in Dublin. The Dr. Annie Patterson Medal is awarded in her honor at the festival. In 1909 Patterson took a job as organist at St. Anne's in Shandon, County Cork.\n\nPatterson composed sacred and secular cantatas, orchestral works and songs based on Irish themes. She also wrote poetry, essays, short stories as well as professional articles and books on music. She published articles in \"The Girl’s Own Paper\" in England and a series of articles on music in the \"Weekly Irish Times\" from 1899–1901. She published ten books, including a text on Irish folk music and a biography of Robert Schumann for the \"Master Musician’s Series\". In 1924, she succeeded Carl Hardebeck as a lecturer on Irish music in the Music Department of University College Cork, where she worked until her death in 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56793077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56793077", "title": "Arwa Saleh", "text": "Arwa Saleh\n\nArwa Saleh (1951-1997) was an Egyptian feminist activist and student leader in the 1970s. In 1997 she committed suicide by jumping from a tenth floor apartment. The event is given fictional treatment in Radwa Ashour's 2008 novel \"Release\", as well as Youssef Rakha's 2014 novel \"The Crocodiles\". \n\n"}
{"id": "56180990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56180990", "title": "Austin Cooper (artist)", "text": "Austin Cooper (artist)\n\nAustin Cooper (1890–1964) was a Canadian–British illustrator and commercial artist. His work included cover illustrations for the Radio Times (including the 1935 Christmas edition) and posters for the London and North Eastern Railway, Indian State Railways, the Empire Marketing Board, London Transport, and the General Post Office. Examples of the latter are now in the collections of London Transport Museum and the British Postal Museum.\n\nCooper was born in Souris, Manitoba, Canada, on 5 March 1890, the son of an Irish farmer. Cooper studied at the Cardiff School of Art, and then the Allan-Frazer College of Art in Arbroath.\n\nHe began his career as a commercial artist after returning to Calgary, at a commercial art studio alongside fellow Arbroath student Adam Sherriff Scott. The two produced a painting \"Christ in Calgary\" (1913; thought lost), which was exhibited unsigned at the Royal Picture Gallery there for six months, described by the Calgary News-Telegram (one of whose street-vendors was depicted in the painting) as showing:\n\nOn being identified as one of the artists Cooper's only comment, to a newspaper, was \"We have nothing to say about it except what appears on the canvass\". Subsequently, he and Sherriff-Scott set up their own company, Shagpat Studios, in Montreal.\n\nDuring World War I he was in Flanders with the Canadian Black Watch, rising to Regimental Sergeant Major, before being discharged in 1919. He moved to London in 1922, having met his wife-to-be there.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1940, he was principal of the London branch of the Reimann School of Commercial and Industrial Art.\n\nLater in his career, in 1943, he gave up commercial art for abstract painting. His first solo exhibition was held in 1948, at the London Gallery. Several of his abstract works are in the collection of the Tate Gallery.\n\nHe died in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "9667612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9667612", "title": "Bernhard Hoesli", "text": "Bernhard Hoesli\n\nBernhard Hoesli (1923–1984) was a Swiss architect and collage artist.\n\nHoesli was born in Glarus, Switzerland from a German-Swiss father and a French mother. He later moved at an early age with his family to live in Zürich. After graduating from high school with a mathematics degree he joined ETH Zurich where he obtained a degree in architecture in 1944.\n\nIn 1947 Hoesli moved to Paris, France to join architect Fernand Léger's team and later was accepted by Le Corbusier as an assistant. In 1948 he was sent to La Plata, Argentina to supervise the construction of the Curutchet House. A year later, he was appointed to take charge of the Unité d'Habitation project in Marseille.\n\nHoesli moved to the United States in 1951. He first joined the School of Architecture at the University of Texas at Austin as a professor of architecture. It was there where he was joined by architects Colin Rowe, John Hejduk and Werner Seligmann among others to form the Texas Rangers group of architects. He then returned to teach at ETH Zurich.\n\nIn 1959, which Hoesli hails as the year Modern Architecture became teachable worldwide, many opinions on architectural instruction changed. In that year, the year of the death of Frank Lloyd Wright, his Guggenheim museum was completed, as were the Birmingham Museum of Art and the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. At this point, Hoesli felt free to discuss the procedure of design with students through pedagogy. His design problems, which \"were so formulated that the student had to solve tasks within a given framework of requirements and achieve precise results\", were arranged by types. The types of problems were created in order to instruct the students in a specific skill through their own self-discovery with trial and error. Hoesli relates this process to the Socratic method, in which students are constantly faced with important questions and debates. When Hoesli began teaching architecture at the ETH in 1959, some of his duties included 'looking after' fifth-year students. At this point, Hoesli realized that most of the fifth-years had an understanding of design as being dependent upon a flash of inspiration rather than a building of design steps upon each other. These students completed projects that had no room for growth or adaptation, and they would not accept criticism or suggestions for improvement. Hoesli felt that this approach was counterproductive and set about changing the way the entire curriculum was structured. \nAlso at the time Hoesli began teaching at the ETH, the design process revolved around different building types. Students would complete an assignment from a specific building group. \"Design began with a garden house, then continued with a holiday home, family dwelling, then on to a multi-family dwelling, then on to a multi-storey block, school building and shopping centre, until at the end of the studies a church or theatre was ventured upon.\"\n\nOf the contrary opinion, Hoesli believed that steps of design were more important than mere function. He saw transparency and wise space definition as the ultimate goals for architectural work. \"Transparency,\" Hoesli wrote, \"frees us, because we allow it, to see buildings and structures in connections and independent of the differences between 'historical' and 'modern'.\" He also articulated that transparency as referenced with the modern tradition became an important tool for instruction in the schools of architecture throughout the world.\n\nFurther, Hoesli felt that students should have the opportunity to branch out in creativity through a more structured process than was present at the ETH. He felt the structure of the ETH curriculum at the time was too dependent on chance and the fleeting feelings of a fine art mentality rather than a practical design process.\n\nAfter his University of Texas experience, Hoesli's leadership skills and persuasive discussions were at their peak. He was able to formulate new course structures and implement them with ease. He also possessed the wherewithal and energy to pursue the course of action he saw as best for the schools.\n\nAt the time Hoesli decided to alter the ETH\"s pedagogy, he was delighted to discover a common Modern manifesto arising as society pronounced Modern architecture dead. He stated, \"In order that the Architecture Department of the ETH can reach the standard of international architectural development, the introduction into architectural design had to be consciously and systematically based on Modern Architecture and the work of its protagonists.\" He saw the three main protagonists as Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, and Mies van der Rohe. His obsession with the Modernist tradition led him to defend it after it became passe and the public pronounced it dead. He suggested that not only did students need to survive the Modern movement, but embrace it as history. He also felt that the Cubist and De Stijl painters had similar perceptions of the continuity of space and drew inspiration from them. He commented profusely on the Modernist concept of continuous space in both writings and lectures regarding his three protagonists as well as many others. He used Modernism as a source of history and theory for his lessons.\n\n\"First\", it is written of his changes in the ETH, \"it was decided what should be taught. Then, from this, situations and programmes were formulated. The student sees himself confronted by a problem. He deals with it, makes his own experiences, and on the basis of a review of the theme in the lecture and discussion, it is possible for him, at the same time, to understand what he has experienced.\"\n\nHoesli began his curriculum overhaul with the basic design course. In his opinion, \"the basic course should allow for the architecturally still \"unskilled\" people to recognize: what an architectural idea is; how it results, how it can be drawn out; upon what it is based; and how it can be developed, treated.\" This theory was put into action with several design exercises. One in the first semester involved extensive writing on the subject of the design concurrent with its first conceived sketches. This project involved first describing the everyday functions of the space to be designed, along with space requirements and basic diagrams. This was based on Hoesli's obsession with space. He stated as the first point of knowledge for architects, \"The architect creates space.\" The students for this project started with a vague concept and explored avenues through which to improve their ideas as each step progressed. The openness of this first design step allowed for much more learning than the previous structure, as students were not as conceptually attached to a particular building before all the kinks in its design had been resolved. In short, \"the first spatial organization is tested against the requirements and developed further…. The design is, above all, a spatial organization.\"\n\nHoesli taught new definitions of space as a continuous function. One key project in the first semester demonstrating this concept was called 'space within space.' Students were to design a space that was \"defined without indicating and above or below.\" The point of this exercise was to separate function from design; a surface or a defining of space was not necessarily a floor or a ceiling or a wall- those titles are added by people. He based this assignment off a quote by Le Corbusier that includes the phrase \"the floor that is a horizontal wall.\" This exercise, similar to the way many sculpture classes are taught, required that the finished product be equally viable from all sides. It could not contain a top or bottom or any other defining characteristic. This project, with so few but such stringent guidelines, challenged students to think about space in a different way. They also considered their materials in different ways, as many students attempted this exercise with many different media. They then faced the task of refining their materials to match their ideas or vice versa, another key concept Hoesli aimed for. The project also encouraged a great variety in creativity as students sought to execute the concept as thoroughly as possible. Students were encouraged to complete as much of the first step as possible independently in order to allow this creativity. In the second phase of this problem, which happened in the winter semester, students worked with advising groups together. They continued this exploration, defining the space within the space. They put the space they had created into another space, a cube, giving it a context of reference. Hoesli enforced his concept of 'geometry as image' during these space- exploring assignments. This, along with his preoccupation with collaging of materials in a geometric manner, was clearly communicated to the students based on their final products.\n\nAnother assignment during the first semester was the 'Extension to a House' project. Hoesli was interested in communicating that not every architectural creation needed to be a freestanding object, but that architecture involved working with the space that already existed- be it an empty lot or a pre-existing structure.\n\nIn this project, the students followed three concise steps. They first analyzed the existing structure, generally a home built by one of Hoesli's Texas Ranger friends. They analyzed both form and function of every part of the existing building, strengthening skills in drawing as well as proportion and geometry. They next did sketches and ideas for their proposed solutions to the problem and worked through these with help from faculty. They discussed the pros and cons of each idea they had before deciding on a final plan. The third step was actual work on the project, including material decision-making and discussions on how to integrate the new addition into the old structure both aesthetically and physically. This assignment also reinforced Hoesli's idea of working in steps and allowing revising to take a role in the creative process.\n\nDuring the second year, students had the clubhouse assignment. They were to create a set of buildings- a clubhouse, an airplane hangar, and a workshop that worked together as a group without necessarily touching. The intent of this exercise was to teach yet more process, involving organization, site evaluation, architectural themes, construction and form, as well as practical presentation skills.\n\nAnother second-year project was known as the pottery. Students were faced with a much more difficult space to address: one in an existing urban environment. This meant that street space and a house on the lot would interact significantly with the structure they designed, including even a common courtyard-type exchange between the two structures. The location as well as function was specified for students: the building was to be a pottery business, including a shop and a studio. The process again went through many steps and revisions in order to reach its final outcome.\n\nIn 1969, Hoesli was appointed Chairman of the architecture school. Unfortunately for him, this coincided with some serious political unrest both in Switzerland as a whole and within the university. He had a very difficult time adapting to the changes within the student body and their demeanor. His old methods of teaching from Texas and his prior ETH career didn't seem to work with the skeptical new generation. At this point, Hoesli realized he'd rather spend time working with students in the higher level classes who had already decided on their goals as architects. He left his first year courses in the same design and focused on the later year studios. He, along with Paul Hofer and Adolph Max Vogt, founded the Institute for the History and Theory of Architecture within the ETH and pronounced himself director. This allowed him to work with only the most elite students.\n\nAfter Hoesli questioned the third and fourth year design class practices he’d seen from other faculty, he made the decision to teach the third year design course with Paul Hofer. After the two collaborated on the course curriculum for that first year (1978/1979) Hoesli took over the design course. The course for the third and fourth year was not divided into semester work, but rather consisted of a single project for those years. This project, called the Venice Project, was a housing unit for an urban setting, specifically the Cannaregio district in Venice, and contained six sections in its program.\n\nThe first step discussed the idea of a city as a working unit. In this step, students worked in clay to create massing models in order to understand the various interactions within volumetric shapes. They also attended related lectures. \nIn the next step students analyzed different types of dwellings. Criteria for this analysis include size, layout in space, variation options, and so on. They refine the ideas in the clay designs they created.\n\nThe third step, related to the second, deals with using the analyses of step two in order to create a structure that relates to the architecture around it. The knowledge of the architecture of the area informs the ideas students originally had and gives more structure to their ideas. Natural lighting becomes a factor. The students learned about a typical layout in a Venetian town, including even the piazza with the church, and altered their designs accordingly.\n\nThe fourth step refers specifically to the student's design and the important relationship between the inside and outside of the building. Students decide on a theme for their final designs as they address the transition from inside to outside space. This relates back to the very first assignment regarding the shaping and defining of space- continuous space rather than an inside versus an outside.\n\nThe next step seems quite difficult. Students must turn their ideas of spatial understandings for their plans into volumetric shapes; i.e. they must turn volume into mass. They did, in essence, a figure-ground reversal. This served to ensure that every space in the final design was active and engaging. Hoesli used as a basis for this step the common observation that it seems Le Corbusier's Unite is a volumetric explanation for the space in the Uffizi.\n\nThe final step was to design the scale models of their housing project, involving all the previous steps in their final designs.\n\nWhat is considered the seventh step in the process is actually the selection of a new project for the following semesters. The students work together with faculty juries in order to select the goals for this project. The project is chosen as a general urban section that each student can contribute to in an individualized manner. They divide up sections of the area and provide solutions to the individual problems they present themselves with. In this way, students were able to become fully involved in the process while retaining a respect for a larger picture.\n\nDuring the designing process, students were presented with lectures and instruction on common Venetian facades and asked to incorporate this information into their designs. This consisted the eighth step.\n\nThe ninth step was the final submission of the design.\n\nThe obsession with space and transparency continued throughout Hoesli's teaching career. He commented, \"Transparency arises wherever there are locations in space which can be assigned two or more systems of reference—where the classification is undefined and the choice between one classification possibility or another remains open.\" \n\nHoesli's unexpected death in 1984 was a shock to students and faculty. They remember him as an extremely influential figure in the shaping of the ETH architecture school as well as in their personal lives and thought patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850487", "title": "Cannon v. University of Chicago", "text": "Cannon v. University of Chicago\n\nCannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U.S. 677 (1979), was a United States Supreme Court case which interpreted Congressional silence in the face of earlier interpretations of similar laws to determine that Title IX of the Higher Education Act provides an implied cause of action.\n\nPlaintiff Geraldine Cannon sued the University of Chicago, asserting that she was denied admission on the basis of her sex, and that she had a cause of action under Title IX, which bars sex discrimination by federally funded institutions, but does not expressly grant a private right of action. The United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois dismissed the case. The dismissal was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which held that the statutory procedure for termination of federal funds was the exclusive remedy provided by Congress.\n\nOne issue, buried in footnotes, would be of importance in the subsequent \"Alexander v. Sandoval\" decision. The University of Chicago claimed that Cannon was denied admission because the medical university admissions departments had a policy of not admitting applicants over thirty years of age, at least not without an advanced degree. Northwestern Medical School absolutely disqualified applicants over 35. Cannon was 39 years old at the time. The policy had a disparate impact on women.\n\nThe plaintiff appealed, contending that Congress acted in light of similar language in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which the Supreme Court had already found to imply a private remedy, and to which Congress had allowed attorney fees (which would be unnecessary absent a private right of action).\n\nDid Congress intend a private remedy to be implied from the Title IX? Are individuals allowed to sue under Title IX, or are they only allowed to participate in class-action suits by the HEW?\n\nThe Court, in an opinion by Justice Stevens, applied the four-part test set forth in \"Cort v. Ash\", 422 U.S. 66 (1975), used in order to determine whether Congress had meant for a law to be able to be privately enforced:\nThe court determined that all of the \"Cort\" factors pointed to an implied right of action:\nThe Court also recognized that while this new source of financial liability might affect universities badly, it was up to Congress to weigh that concern.\n\nA dissenting opinion by Justice Powell raised separation of powers concerns. He called the Court's decision legislation, noting that Congress knew how to make judicial remedies, and saying that three of the four factors invited judicial lawmaking—only the second factor, he argued, was really about congressional intent. Powell contended that the Court's decision would encourage Congress to be lax in their duty to create laws, expecting democratically unaccountable judges to do the job for them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2196889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196889", "title": "City Year", "text": "City Year\n\nCity Year is an education nonprofit organization founded in 1988 dedicated to helping students and schools succeed. The organization partners with public schools in 29 high-need communities across the U.S. and through international affiliates in the U.K. and Johannesburg, South Africa. City Year teams are made up of 18 to 24 year olds, who provide student, classroom, and whole school support, intended to help students stay in school and on track to graduate high school. City Year is a member of the AmeriCorps national service network, and is supported by the Corporation for National and Community Service, school district partnerships, and private philanthropy from corporations, foundations and individuals.\n\nCity Year was founded in 1988 by Michael Brown and Alan Khazei, then-roommates at Harvard Law School, who felt strongly that young people in service could be a powerful resource for addressing America's most pressing issues. They built City Year with the conviction that one person can make a difference. Since its inception, City Year has promoted the vision of service as a common expectation – and a real opportunity – for citizens all around the world.\n\nCity Year AmeriCorps members initially focused their efforts on community rehabilitation, beautification of neighborhoods, and developing community awareness in Boston. Over the years, the organization has expanded, opening sites in 28 cities throughout the U.S., and refocused its mission to help students in under-served schools reach their full potential and graduate from high school.\n\nInspired by a visit with City Year during his 1992 presidential campaign, Bill Clinton enlisted the help of Michael Brown, Alan Khazei and others to establish AmeriCorps through the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. Since then, more than 1 million AmeriCorps members have contributed upwards of 1.2 billion hours of public service. All AmeriCorps members, originally conceived as unpaid volunteers in service, are now paid a stipend by the federal government through the Corporation for National and Community Service and subsequently through a variety of matching grants, including the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award. City Year, along with thousands of other nonprofit organizations, is a member of the AmeriCorps network, a program of the Corporation for National and Community Service.\n\nIn early 2005, City Year opened its first international site in South Africa. A second international affiliate, City Year London based in London, England, followed in 2010, with City Year Birmingham and City Year Greater Manchester opening in the U.K. in 2013 and 2015, respectively.\n\nIn 2012, City Year announced its Long Term Impact (LTI) goal to dramatically increase the number of students on track to graduation, reaching the majority of off-track students in each of its communities, and expanding to cities and schools that produce two-thirds of the nation's urban dropouts. Based on national research from Johns Hopkins University and City Year's analysis of existing markets, roughly 15 to 20 percent of schools are producing the majority of the dropouts within urban school districts. This degree of concentration enables City Year AmeriCorps members to have an outsized impact on the graduation pipeline in each of their cities, while deploying to a relatively small number of schools. The goal of the strategy is to significantly increase graduation rates and college and career readiness in high-need urban schools by ensuring that 80 percent of students served by City Year reach the tenth grade on time and on track to graduate. City Year AmeriCorps members function as a \"human capital resource\" in under-resourced elementary, middle and high schools, working with off-track students and students at risk for falling off track to provide targeted academic and social-emotional interventions aimed at improving the number of high school graduates.\n\nCity Year AmeriCorps members commit to 11 months of service, leadership development and civic engagement, serving as tutors, mentors and role models in high-need schools. City Year responds to the challenges facing public education by providing Whole School, Whole Child (WSWC) services in high-need education institutions across the country. These services are rooted in using data to monitor student progress to better meet student needs, engaging in one-on-one and small group instruction in ELA and math with embedded social-emotional supports, establishing whole school activities that improve conditions for learning along with engaging families and inspiring civic engagement. City Year also provides extended-day activities: after-school programming, homework assistance, enrichment curricula and civic projects that build and serve communities.\n\nCity Year AmeriCorps members are supervised by full-time, on site City Year staff called Impact Managers and these corps members and staff become integrated into the fabric of the school community. They collaborate with the school principal and teachers to deliver holistic, data-driven interventions at the individual student, classroom and school-wide levels that help the school achieve its vision for educational excellence.\n\nCity Year also provides small group social-emotional skill building sessions, additional capacity in the classroom and classroom management support. City Year helps to close gaps in high-need schools by providing students with personalized support and additional developmental relationships while also providing schools with increased capacity to implement research-based reforms.\n\nCity Year's model is based on research indicating that students who are at greatest risk of dropping out can be identified as early as in the sixth grade. City Year AmeriCorps members make positive connections with students, encourage them to come to school every day, and provide evidence-based academic supports for students who exhibit one or more \"early warning indicators\": low attendance, poor behavior or course failure in English or math. Research shows that preventing one or more of these warning signs makes it three times more likely that a student will graduate, dramatically improving his or her lifetime trajectory.\n\nIn the 2017 – 2018 academic year, more than 3,000 City Year AmeriCorps members are serving approximately 223,000 students in 329 schools nationwide.\n\nCity Year serves in 29 cities within the United States, with two international affiliates.\n\nCity Year AmeriCorps members represent a diverse array of racial, ethnic, religious and educational backgrounds. Approximately 80% of corps members are recent college graduates, 56% are people of color, 48% are Pell Grant eligible, 42% are fluent or conversational in a second language and 25% are first generation college students.\n\nAmeriCorps members begin their service year in the summertime, undergoing several weeks of intensive training before the beginning of the school year. During this training, corps members are oriented to City Year culture and trained on how to work within schools. They are assigned to serve on a team at a particular school, where they will work for the duration of their service year.\n\nLike other AmeriCorps members, City Year corps members receive a biweekly living allowance, or modest stipend. City Year AmeriCorps also receive health insurance benefits and qualify for a post-service Segal Education Award through AmeriCorps. Additionally, City Year has local partnerships in all cities that offer benefits such as public transit passes and discounts to local businesses just for City Year AmeriCorps members.\n\nCity Year has developed a comprehensive approach to leadership development designed to ensure AmeriCorps member success at City Year, and in whatever field City Year alumni choose to enter after their year of service. City Year was founded on the belief that a year of service transforms both the community being served and the individual providing that service. City Year recognizes that the development of new skills and knowledge is crucial, but there are also some deeper questions that need to be explored in the journey of leadership development.\n\nCity Year AmeriCorps members wear a distinctive uniform, issued by the organization – a red jacket worn with black pants. City Year sites located in California wear yellow jackets due to pre-existing gang associations with the color red in the communities in which they serve.\n\nProminent members of a community in which City Year serves and key supporters who have acted as major advocates or champions of the organization are often gifted with their own red jacket. This honor, over time, has led to the creation of City Year’s Red Jacket Society. The Red Jacket Society is a community of philanthropic individuals and families who believe in the power of the red jacket, which is founded in national service and a commitment to others.\n\nCity Year's funding comes from a variety of sources. In [null 2017, 23% of the organization's operating revenue came from] AmeriCorps, 54% from corporations, foundations and individual donors, and 23% from school districts and other local government grants. [1]\n\nCity Year was started with private funding and still maintains many of its efforts via gifts from organizations as National Leadership Sponsors and Team Sponsors.\n\nCity Year's National Partners work side by side with City Year lending their time, expertise and resources to support the mission of increasing the high school graduation rate. These investments can take many different forms and are allocated to programs and initiatives that align with the partners' and City Year's priorities. City Year National Leadership Sponsors include: Adobe Foundation, Aramark, AT&T, Bain Capital, Bank of America, Celanese Foundation, Cisco Foundation, Comcast NBCUniversal, CSX Transportation, Deloitte, New York Life Foundation, Microsoft, PepsiCo Foundation and Red Nose Day.\n\nPublic school districts partner with City Year to bring teams of AmeriCorps member to work in schools. Though it varies from district to district, schools are responsible for financing a portion of the cost of maintaining a team of City Year AmeriCorps members in service.\n\nCare Force is a part of City Year specifically created to engage corporations and their employees in high-impact volunteer events to help improve schools and communities.\n\nCare Force has helped to craft and lead volunteer experiences that have become an integral component of corporate partners' community service outreach, and inspired employees to want to serve again and again. Whether painting inspirational murals in a school hallway or transforming an unused space into a library; Care Force events physically transform the spaces where children and communities grow.\n\nSince launching in 2001, Care Force has led more than 90,000 volunteers in service projects and managed more than 600 events, and worked in over 130 communities in 10 countries over three continents.\n\nCity Year is a five-time winner of the Social Capitalist award from the Fast Company Monitor group. City Year has received positive reviews from the \"Princeton Review\" and the \"U.S. News & World Report\", and has earned four stars from the organization, Charity Navigator. City Year was also named to the Philanthropy 400, an annual ranking of America's nonprofits based on the contributions they raise from individuals, foundations, and corporations by the \"Chronicle of Philanthropy\", in 2015 and 2016.\n\nCity Year has been accused of exploiting its volunteers by demanding long hours of taxing work, while providing an inadequate stipend. The organization has also been criticized by some for accepting a sponsorship from the soft drink manufacturer PepsiCo. Because City Year Corps members are role models to many children, this partnership might encourage greater consumption of soft drinks, which some see problematic in light of the current national woes with childhood obesity.\n\nIn 2001 at a conference on civil society in Cape Town, U.S. President Bill Clinton brought a delegation of City Year Service Leaders and staff from Boston, to meet with former President Nelson Mandela. Mandela was eager to implement a programme in South Africa that afforded young people the opportunity to serve their communities. He loved the idea of City Year and after further conversations; City Year's first international site was launched in 2005 with 110 Service Leaders in Johannesburg.\n\nCity Year brings together a diverse group of young people for a year of voluntary service and leadership development. These young people work in teams as tutors, mentors and role models to children in 10 primary schools throughout Johannesburg and Soweto. City Year South Africa works to support the growing National Youth Service movement, with a strong belief that youth service is a powerful vehicle for developing a generation of young leaders for South Africa, promoting a culture of service across all sectors of society, addressing critical development needs in schools and communities, and addressing youth unemployment.\n\nCity Year South Africa provides a rigorous year of full-time community service, leadership development and skills training to young South African volunteers (Service Leaders).\n\nSince its inception in 2005 City Year South Africa has graduated over 1,200 Service Leaders who engaged over 20,000 children through after-school programs and various other projects. In total these Service Leaders have completed over 1 million hours of service.\n\nCity Year launched in London during the 2010/11 academic year with 60 corps members working in teams across six primary schools. For the start of the 2011/12 school year City Year had 81 corps members serving across nine schools.\n\nSince the 2010 general election, City Year London has met with range of Members of Parliament, government ministers, and Prime Minister David Cameron to champion service opportunities for young people across the UK.\n\nIn 2012 City Year London was awarded a Social Action Fund grant of £300,000 by the Government's Cabinet Office, which has gone towards the expansion of City Year's service across London and the development of three new school partnerships from September 2012.\n\nAs part of their year of service, City Year London corps members benefit from a year-long leadership development programme which is delivered by the organisation's corporate sponsors every Friday. Leadership development days help corps members to develop skills and competencies to be successful in securing a job after City Year. This includes CV and interview guidance, work-shadowing, networking sessions, public speaking and presentation skills training. Each corps member is also matched with a corporate mentor. 95% of corps members who graduated from the 2011/12 City Year London programme successfully secured a place in education or employment after City Year.\n\nAn evaluation of City Year London's work in schools was conducted by the Institute for Volunteering Research in November 2012. It found that corps members were having a positive effect on the attainment, behaviour and focus of school children and that teachers valued the help and support they received from corps members in the classroom. The evaluation also highlighted a boost in confidence and the employability of City Year corps members who have completed the programme.\n\nCity Year London recruits a diverse corps to reflect the diversity of the children it works with. City Year is currently recruiting 18- to 25-year-old corps members from colleges, universities and youth centres across London and the rest of the UK. The organisation recruits a diversity of young people into the corps based on: socio-economic status, eligibility for Free School Meals, type of secondary education (e.g., public or private), educational attainment, gender and ethnicity. Approximately 60% of City Year London's current corps members are graduates while 40% are college leavers.\n\nThe Private Equity Foundation helped to bring City Year from America to London in 2010. The Chief Executive of the Private Equity Foundation, Shaks Ghosh visited City Year in Boston in 2009 and was so impressed by its 'double benefit' model that she donated £1 million to help start up City Year in London. The Private Equity Foundation is City Year London's Lead Founding Partner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5190548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5190548", "title": "Complete School", "text": "Complete School\n\nComplete School is an educational product aimed at secondary or high school students studying Mathematics or English. It is the third title by Australian educational self-publisher Michael Milford and was first released in May 2006 around Australia.\n\nLike the previous two titles by the publisher, Complete School is aimed at the secondary or high school market. However it is broader in scope and contains material aimed at younger secondary school students as well as the older students, unlike previous titles which have focussed only on the older students. It also attempts to cover both the English and Mathematics high school subjects.\n\nThe Complete School package is made up of two major components - textbooks and a DVD, although it also contains an A2 poster. Each textbook is just under 600 pages and contains text and grayscale illustrations. The DVD contains 16 video tutorials making up just over two hours of video. The poster is grayscale and contains text and illustrations.\n\nThe foundation for Complete School was established in 2000 with the publication of the book \"Not a C Minus: A Guide to Surviving Mathematics B\". This book featured \"a conversational style\" and was intended as a supplement study aide to the conventional school mathematics textbooks . With some media coverage but no paid advertising the book went on to sell a little over 4000 copies around Australia and internationally over the next 3 years.\n\n\"Not a C Minus\" was followed by \"Painless Physics\", which was intended as a study aide for high school students of Physics. It has sold a little over 1000 copies around Australia since its release in mid-2002.\n\nThe positive public response from students for these two titles led to the commencement of the Complete School project in 2004. After a two-year development period it entered production in March 2006. After two months of production it entered the Australian marketplace on May 16.\n\nThe educational style in Complete School (and the previous two titles) differs from that found in a conventional textbook in several ways. The text is generally more conversational and colloquial than a standard textbook. This has both advantages and disadvantages; students may feel more comfortable due to the style but the lack of orthodox language and terms may restrict a student's ability to function in more formal environments.\n\nThe package also has relatively few questions. Compared to normal Mathematics textbooks which may have several dozen if not hundreds of questions per topic, Complete School only has one or two. These questions are more akin to the fully worked examples in conventional textbooks than the numbered lists of questions usually found at the end of a topic. This structure means there is a lack of questions for students to practice on, but does allow a lot more content to be fit into one product.\n\nThe topics covered in Complete School are more controversial than those found in a standard textbook. These topics include several types of gambling, nuclear weapons, and subtle manipulation techniques, which some parents may find objectionable. The author reasons that they are practical real-life examples or skills.\n\nComplete School also covers several non-traditional textbook topics such as Internet research, exam technique, and word processing software, although these topics are mostly covered on the video DVD.\n\nComplete School was produced through the Chinese printing company Everbest in early 2006. The initial production run comprised 1000 units. The product was produced in China because of the significantly cheaper labour and material costs available in that country compared to in the United States or Australia. This introduced additional steps into the production process including content clearance with the Chinese government and international freight.\n\nThe package's current recommended retail price is $79.95. Standard Australian single textbooks typically cost around $60.\n\n"}
{"id": "3427774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3427774", "title": "DIVO Project", "text": "DIVO Project\n\nDIVO (Digital Interactive Video Online), is an active learning education project, incorporating creativity and ICTs. The project uses participant centred, creative digital video dialogue, and aims to promote inter-cultural understanding and peer-led learning between remote groups who are unable to meet face-to-face.\n\nThe DIVO project uses digital video to augment online dialogue between remote groups. Groups of young people record and exchange short digital films based on common themes, which are shared via a website. The films are viewed and the issues contained are discussed and explored on and offline and new films are created and shared in response. DIVO is designed to be used to promote and support dialogue in formal and informal educational contexts, including inter-cultural understanding in support of Key Stages 3 and 4, since learning how to use digital interactive video creatively is coupled with the development of teamwork and negotiation skills. The project aims to puts media creation in the hands of participants, offering them the opportunity to experiment with a medium they are only likely to have experienced as consumers.\n\nIn 2004, the DIVO project bought together two groups of girls: socially and economically marginalised young women from an Islamic community in Ghana and students from Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School for Girls in London, UK. The project facilitated a cultural exchange based on gender issues faced by participants in the groups. The two groups created and responded to each other's films. Dialogues formed through the process have continued to develop beyond the initial life of the pilot project. The pilot phase was funded by the British Council, the British High Commission and Guardian Newspapers Limited.\n\nA 20-min project documentary was made about the project, which has been recognised by selection in a number of international human rights film festivals and screens regularly on the Community Channel in the UK.\n\nThe methodology of DIVO comes from the combination of the creative application of technology with peer-led, participant-centred teaching techniques. Emphasis is placed on the process of generating media clips as well as the media clips themselves. In order to create a dialogue, groups need to digest what they have viewed and examine this against their existing knowledge before proceeding to generate more media and develop their response. DIVO is intended to operate as a multilateral dialogue between many groups and offer flexibility of access and timing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42351720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42351720", "title": "Dalit Lahav-Durst", "text": "Dalit Lahav-Durst\n\nDalit L. Durst (born 1956 as Dalit Lahav), is an author, translator, curator and art historian of both Israeli and French nationality. Former chief curator at the M.T. Abraham Foundation and head of the Cultural Exchange and Academic Department at the Hermitage Foundation Israel, she has curated exhibitions in Europe (Greece, Bulgaria, Croatia), dedicated to the sculpture of Edgar Degas. In December 2013 she co-curated the exhibition \"Edgar Degas: Figures in Motion\" at The State Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia. In 2016 she curated an exhibition of Degas' 74 bronze sculptures at MGM Art Space in Macau.\nLahav-Durst works with a broad range of artists. Fluent in multiple languages, she has co-authored and translated over 15 books.\n\nDalit Lahav-Durst (originally named Dalit Lahav) was born in 1956, and is of both Israeli and French nationality. She grew up in Sao Paulo, Brazil, where she studied comparative literature at the USP. She later moved to Paris, France, where she focused on art history, criticism, and conservation at . Her languages include Hebrew, French, Portuguese, Spanish and English.\n\nShe has worked as an art critic and editor for a number of Hebrew-language newspapers, including \"Ma'ariv Daily\", and she has translated a number of significant books into Hebrew, including \"The Immortal\" by Jorge Luis Borges, \"O Aleph\" by Paulo Coelho, and \"Sombras em Telavive\" by Manuel Pope.\n\nMany of her curated exhibits and organized symposiums have involved World War II. In 1996, she organized the \"European Meeting of Holocaust Archival Centers\" (at UNESCO headquarters in Paris), with the participation of historians, archive keepers and researchers from 25 countries. She was curator and artistic events organizer at the Memorial to the Unknown Jewish Martyr (Mémorial du Martyr Juif Inconnu) and the Jewish Contemporary Documentation Center in Paris. While at the center she worked with artists such as sculptor Shlomo Selinger, and the photographers Ruth Goodwin and William Betsch, among others.\n\nSince 2005 Durst has worked as a consultant and art curator for several private collectors, and was the representative of the Tel-Aviv Foundation in France She also acts a consultant for the CulturalHeritage.cc Foundation. As of 2014 she is Head of the Cultural Exchange and Academic Department at the Hermitage Foundation Israel.\n\nSince June 2008 she has been the chief curator at the M.T. Abraham Foundation. While representing the foundation, she coordinated and supervised the following exhibitions: \"The Sculpture of Edgar Degas\" at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, Israel, (2010), \"The Complete Sculptures of Edgar Degas\" at the Herakleidon Museum, Athens, Greece, (2010), \"The Complete Sculptures of Edgar Degas\" at the National Art Gallery, Sofia, Bulgaria (2010), \"The Complete Sculptures of Edgar Degas\" at the Varna Archaeological Museum, Bulgaria, (2010), \"The Sculpture of Edgar Degas\" at The Evagoras Lanitis Center, Limassol, Cyprus, (2011-2012), \"Edgar Degas Complete Sculpture\" at Galerija Klovićevi dvori, Zagreb, Croatia (2012). In 2013 Durst co-curated the \"Degas in Motion\" exhibit at the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, and also co-authored sections of the illustrated catalog published by Petronius.\n\n\n\nAmong her literary translations into Hebrew are:\n\n"}
{"id": "23131586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23131586", "title": "Dawat University", "text": "Dawat University\n\nDawat University () is a private university registered with the government of Afghanistan. Abdul Rab Rasul Sayyaf, the founder, recently obtained a license from the Ministry of Higher Education. In the beginning, Dawat University will be registering students to the faculties of Engineering, Law and Islamic Studies. In 2013 it has about 7000 students studying in six faculties, Shariah, Law, Engineering, Economics, Journalism and Pharmacy; the first batch of 450 students are graduated in this year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54842941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54842941", "title": "Dive leader", "text": "Dive leader\n\nDive leader describes the minimum requirements for dive leader training and certification for recreational scuba divers in international standard ISO 24801-3 and the equivalent European Standard EN 14153-3. Various organizations offer training that meets the requirements of the dive leader standard.\n\nScuba dive leaders are considered competent to plan, organise and conduct dives and to lead other recreational divers on open water dives, and for specialised recreational scuba diving activities for which they have been trained. They are also considered competent to conduct emergency procedures associated with these activities and the relevant diving environment. They may require orientation for unfamiliar local environmental conditions. Additional specialised training and experience is required to lead divers on more demanding dives.\n\nThe term is also used by BSAC for a specific certification.\n\nInternational standard ISO 24801-3 includes:\n\nDiver qualifications which comply with ISO 24801-3\n\nBefore initial diver training and thereafter at regular intervals, a diver should undergo a fitness to dive examination by a diving doctor. This may be considered more important for a dive leader who has a duty of care to their clients. In some countries, such an examination is required by law and it is a prerequisite for any training in many diving schools.\n"}
{"id": "55450123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55450123", "title": "Einstein Gravity in a Nutshell", "text": "Einstein Gravity in a Nutshell\n\nEinstein Gravity in a Nutshell is a textbook by Anthony Zee.\n\nMichael Berg said in a review in the Mathematical Association of America, \"I must admit that, as its nutshell predecessor, \"Einstein Gravity in a Nutshell\" is very appealing to me, and I am certainly won over by Zee’s chatty but on-the-money style\". Luboš Motl said about the book on his blog \"The Reference Frame\": \"Anthony is more playful and less formal but there are aspects in which he gets further than any other introductory textbook of GR. The book is full of notes, a long index, and simply clever exercises. The illustrations are pretty and professional [...] I recommend you once again to try the book\". Pedro G. Ferreira, professor at the University of Oxford called it \"a remarkably complete and thorough textbook on general relativity, written in a refreshing and engaging style. Zee leads us through all the major intellectual steps that make what is surely one of the most profound and beautiful theories of all time. The book is enjoyable and informative in equal measure. Quite an achievement.\"\n"}
{"id": "19553737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553737", "title": "Encyclopedia of Cryptography and Security", "text": "Encyclopedia of Cryptography and Security\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Cryptography and Security is a comprehensive work on Cryptography for both information security professionals and experts in the fields of Computer Science, Applied Mathematics, Engineering, Information Theory, Data Encryption, etc. It consists of 460 articles in alphabetical order and is available electronically and in print. The Encyclopedia has a representative Advisory Board consisting of 18 leading international specialists.\n\nTopics include but are not limited to authentication and identification, copy protection, cryptoanalysis and security, factorization algorithms and primality tests, cryptographic protocols, key management, electronic payments and digital certificates, hash functions and MACs, elliptic curve cryptography, quantum cryptography and web security.\n\nThe style of the articles is of explanatory character and can be used for undergraduate or graduate courses.\n"}
{"id": "18564412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18564412", "title": "Escuela Brasil (Montevideo)", "text": "Escuela Brasil (Montevideo)\n\nEscuela Brasil, or Escuela N° 17 Brasil, or Escuela \"República del Brasil\", is a public elementary school located in the barrio of Pocitos in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nThe original building was designed and constructed by architect Americo Maini in 1908. It was founded in 1885 and originally located on 85 Gabriel Pereira Street. It shared the premises with Escuela No. 18 – Noruega (School No. 18 Norway). In 1904 the government bought the parcel of land located on what was then Avenida de los Pocitos (Avenue of the Pocitos) and is now called Avenida Brasil (Brazil Avenue). On November 15, 1927 the school was named Brazil. From 1949 until 2002 the school shared the premises with Escuela No. 71 Baron de Rio Branco (School No. 71).\nSince 1993 it had been considered a building of local interest and in 2002 was declared a National Heritage Site by resolution 1.448/002 of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The design and in particular its tiled roof, main entrance and its railings are an outstanding example of modernist architecture, which is quite common in Pocitos.\n\nThe main entrance of the old building is on Avenida Brasil 2963, while the school occupies most of the block between streets Avenida Brasil, 26 de Marzo and José Martí. Behind the left wing of the original building has been annexed a building originally designed with 3 levels, of which only 2 levels were constructed. The annex was designed to expand the leasable capacity of this institution. With the same purpose, architect Marcelo de Vita projected classrooms for temporary use in 1969. At the same time and by the same architect, the gym was designed, which was built after the construction of the annexed building along with two accesses from Jose Marti street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "500948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500948", "title": "Field guide", "text": "Field guide\n\nA field guide is a book designed to help the reader identify wildlife (plants or animals) or other objects of natural occurrence (e.g. minerals). It is generally designed to be brought into the 'field' or local area where such objects exist to help distinguish between similar objects. Field guides are often designed to help users distinguish animals and plants that may be similar in appearance but are not necessarily closely related.\n\nIt will typically include a description of the objects covered, together with paintings or photographs and an index. More serious and scientific field identification books, including those intended for students, will probably include identification keys to assist with identification, but the publicly accessible field guide is more often a browsable picture guide organized by family, colour, shape, location or other descriptors.\n\nPopular interests in identifying things in nature probably were strongest in bird and plant guides. Perhaps the first popular field guide to plants in the United States was the 1893 \"How to Know the Wildflowers\" by \"Mrs. William Starr Dana\" (Frances Theodora Parsons). In 1890, Florence Merriam published \"Birds Through an Opera-Glass\", describing 70 common species. Focused on living birds observed in the field, the book is considered the first in the tradition of modern, illustrated bird guides. In 1902, now writing as Florence Merriam Bailey (having married the zoologist Vernon Bailey), she published \"Handbook of Birds of the Western United States\". By contrast, the \"Handbook\" is designed as a comprehensive reference for the lab rather a portable book for the field. It was arranged by taxonomic order and had clear descriptions of species size, distribution, feeding, and nesting habits.\n\nFrom this point into the 1930s, features of field guides were introduced by Chester A. Reed and others such as changing the size of the book to fit the pocket, including colour plates, and producing guides in uniform editions that covered subjects such as garden and woodland flowers, mushrooms, insects, and dogs.\n\nIn 1934, Roger Tory Peterson, using his fine skill as an artist, changed the way modern field guides approached identification. Using color plates with paintings of similar species together – and marked with arrows showing the differences – people could use his bird guide in the field to compare species quickly to make identification easier. This technique, the \"Peterson Identification System\", was used in most of Peterson's Field Guides from animal tracks to seashells and has been widely adopted by other publishers and authors as well.\n\nToday, each field guide has its own range, focus and organization. Specialist publishers such as Croom Helm, along with organisations like the Audubon Society, the RSPB, the Field Studies Council, National Geographic, HarperCollins, and many others all produce quality field guides.\n\nIt is somewhat difficult to generalise about how field guides are intended to be used, because this varies from one guide to another, partly depending on how expert the targeted reader is expected to be.\n\nFor general public use, the main function of a field guide is to help the reader identify a bird, plant, rock, butterfly or other natural object down to at least the popular naming level. To this end some field guides employ simple keys and other techniques: the reader is usually encouraged to scan illustrations looking for a match, and to compare similar-looking choices using information on their differences. Guides are often designed to first lead readers to the appropriate section of the book, where the choices are not so overwhelming in number.\n\nGuides for students often introduce the concept of identification keys. Plant field guides such as \"Newcomb's Wildflower Guide\" (which is limited in scope to the wildflowers of northeastern North America) frequently have an abbreviated key that helps limit the search. Insect guides tend to limit identification to Order or Family levels rather than individual species, due to their diversity.\n\nMany taxa show variability and it is often difficult to capture the constant features using a small number of photographs. Illustrations by artists or post processing of photographs help in emphasising specific features needed to for reliable identification. Peterson introduced the idea of lines to point to these key features. He also noted the advantages of illustrations over photographs:\n\nField guides aid in improving the state of knowledge of various taxa. By making the knowledge of experienced museum specialists available to amateurs, they increase the gathering of information by amateurs from a wider geographic area and increasing the communication of these findings to the specialists.\n\n"}
{"id": "28408796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28408796", "title": "Fraternitas Liviensis", "text": "Fraternitas Liviensis\n\nFraternitas Liviensis (also Korp! Fraternitas Liviensis) is an all-male academic corporation in Estonia. It was established on 28 January 1918.\n\n"}
{"id": "26564860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26564860", "title": "Higher Computing", "text": "Higher Computing\n\nHigher Computing, SQA course code \"C206 12\", is a qualification taught in Scottish secondary schools, usually in the fifth or sixth year of study (S5/S6). Candidates usually progress into Higher Computing with a pass at National 5, previously Intermediate 2 or Standard Grade (credit).\n\nThe course consists of three units: two mandatory units and one optional unit selected by the centre. The required units are Computer Systems \"(DF2X 12)\" and Software Development \"(DF2Y 12)\" and the optional units are Computer Networking \"(DF30 12)\", Artificial Intelligence \"(DF31 12)\" and Multimedia Technology \"(DF32 12)\".\n\nCandidates are assessed on both practical and theory work. In October, the SQA issues a coursework task to centres which candidates will attempt between November and March. The task is split into two parts:\n1.A programming task\nand 2.An investigation related to hardware and software studied in the Computer Systems unit.\n\nAs with most SQA qualifications, candidates sit for a written exam in May/June. This is split into two sections. Section I is worth 20 marks and contains short response questions, while section II involves more in-depth answers and is worth a total of 70 marks.\n\nTherefore, candidates can receive up to 150 marks. The grade is then worked out as follows:\nNote: In some years the criteria for these grades may change to reflect the difficulty of the exam.\n\nAll three optional units are assigned 50 marks in the final exam.\n\nThe Computer Systems unit of the course focuses on how modern day computers work and can be broken down into the following sub-sections:\n30 marks in the coursework task (50%) are for this unit, while the written exam has approximately 45 marks worth of questions on Computer Systems.\n\nSoftware Development is about the process of developing commercial software and includes a practical element where students create their own programs using a high level language of the site's choice. The sub-sections are:\nAs with the Computer Systems unit, 30 marks in the coursework task (50%) are for this unit and the exam has around 45 marks worth of Software Development questions.\n\nThe first optional unit, Artificial Intelligence, teaches students about the history and technology behind AI. The four sub-sections are:\nThis unit has similar content to the Expert Systems unit of Higher Information Systems.\n\nComputer Networking contains the following sub-units:\nThis unit has similar content to the Internet unit of Higher Information Systems.\n\nMultimedia Technology consists of the following:\nThis unit has similar content to the Applied Multimedia unit of Higher Information Systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "9414479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9414479", "title": "Individuals with Disabilities Education Act: Hawaii", "text": "Individuals with Disabilities Education Act: Hawaii\n\nThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act is United States federal law enacted in 1990 that governs how states and public agencies provide early intervention, special education, and related services to children with disabilities. In the state of Hawaii, along with similar state-level legislation, it has been implemented in an Early Intervention program for qualifying children.\n\nEarly Intervention is a federal and state-mandated program that provides services to support the development of infant and toddlers from birth to three years of age. In Hawaii, Early Intervention is managed by the Department of Health. \n\nUnder current regulations, Early Intervention services cease when a child turns 3 years old. Instead, Early Intervention children are required on their 3rd birthday to attend a Special Education Preschool that is run by the Hawaii Department of Education.\n\nThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) allows States to extend Early Intervention services to eligible children who are between 3 and 5 years of age. This option maximizes parental choice, as it allows each parent to decide which option best meets the educational needs of their disabled child.\n\nThe State of Hawaii is considering legislation that would extend Early Intervention services to eligible children who are between 3 and 5 years of age. In 2007, those bills are House Bill 531 and Senate Bill 1176.\n\n2007 Session\n\n"}
{"id": "13337498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13337498", "title": "Interaction model", "text": "Interaction model\n\nIn the context of e-Learning, interactivity is defined as \"the function of input required by the learner while responding to the computer, the analysis of those responses by the computer, and the nature of the action by the computer.\" \n\nThere are two variables describing the interactivity of a given lesson: technology affordance and user freedom. Technology affordance, also known as manual operators, is the richness of the communication between the student and the instructor, usually expressed in terms of the input and output channels. User freedom, on the other hand, is a function of the degree of freedom the learning system grants the student in influencing the presentation of the lesson.\n\nTechnology affordance in the e-Learning is a function of the capabilities of available computer I/O devices, having a tendency to evolve as new input and output devices become obtainable. There are five levels of technology affordance interactivity:\n"}
{"id": "25397678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25397678", "title": "James Sheptycki", "text": "James Sheptycki\n\nJames Sheptycki is a Professor of Criminology at York University, Toronto, Canada. He received a Ph.D. in sociology from the London School of Economics in 1991 and was an ESRC post-doctoral research fellow and lecturer in the Centre for Criminology and the Social and Philosophical Study of Law at the University of Edinburgh from 1993-1999. His research interests centre on policing and crime under conditions of transnationalisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "25034139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25034139", "title": "Jaroslava Maxová", "text": "Jaroslava Maxová\n\nJaroslava Maxová (born 6 April 1957; Jaroslava Horská, Jaroslava Horská-Maxová) is a Czech mezzo-soprano opera singer and vocal coach.\n\nJaroslava Maxová was born on 6 April 1957 in Moravská Třebová, Moravia and studied singing at the Bratislava Academy in Slovakia. She made her Slovak National Opera début already during her studies and became a soloist there in 1986. She sang principal roles throughout the next eight years and since 1994 continued to do so at the Prague National Opera Theatre.\n\nHer repertoire includes Strauss‘ Octavian in \"Der Rosenkavalier\", Offenbach’s Niklausse in \"Les contes d’Hoffmann\", Verdi’s Amneris in \"Aida\", Fenena in \"Nabucco\", Maddalena in \"Rigoletto\", Preziosilla in \"La forza del destino\", Mozart’s Dorabella in \"Così fan tutte\", Cherubino and Marcellina in \"Le nozze di Figaro\" and Sesto in \"La clemenza di Tito\", Rossini’s Berta in \"Il barbiere di Siviglia\", Tchaikovsky’s Olga in \"Eugene Onegin\", Bizet’s Mercedes in \"Carmen\", Mascagni‘s Lola in \"Cavalleria rusticana\", Martinů’s Filoména in \"Alexander Twice\", Gluck’s Orpheus in \"Orpheus and Eurydice\", Dvořák’s Witch in \"Rusalka\" and Kate in \"The Devil and Kate\", Smetana’s Radmila in \"Libuše\" and Háta in \"The Bartered Bride\", Handel’s Ulysses in \"Deidamia\", Purcell’s Witch in \"Dido and Aeneas\", Britten’s Miss Jessel in \"The Turn of the Screw\", Janáček’s Varvara in \"Káťa Kabanová\", Kedruta in \"The Excursions of Mr Brouček\" and Pastuchyňa (Herdswoman) in \"Jenůfa\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50582309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50582309", "title": "Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Arts &amp; Science", "text": "Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Arts &amp; Science\n\nJawaharlal Nehru Institute of Arts & Science (JNIAS), Balagram, is Unaided arts and science college located in Balagram, Idukki in Kerala India.[2] Established in 2015,\nThe college is affiliated to the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam & Approved by Govt. of Kerala and offers courses in Science and Humanities at the degree level such as Multimedia, Commerce, English Literature and Mathematics At the postgraduate level the college offers M.Com\n\n"}
{"id": "7522391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7522391", "title": "John Moore (Methodist bishop)", "text": "John Moore (Methodist bishop)\n\nJohn Monroe Moore (27 January 1867 – July 30, 1948) was a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, elected in 1918.\n\nHe was born in Morgantown, Kentucky. He was the son of Joseph Alexander and Martha Ann (Hampton) Moore. John married Miss Bessie Harris of San Antonio, Texas, 25 March 1901.\n\nMoore was educated at the Morgantown high school and earned the A.B. degree from Lebanon College in Ohio in 1887. In 1890, Moore was one of the founding professors of Texas Normal College, the forerunner to the University of North Texas. While there, he taught engineering and mathematics. He also taught voice and harmony in the college's Conservatory of Music. After leaving his post, he continued his studies in 1894-95 at the Universities of Leipzig and Heidelberg in Germany. He earned the Ph.D. degree at Yale University in 1895.\n\nRev. Moore was licensed to preach in 1887. He was admitted on trial by the St. Louis Annual Conference in 1895, when he was also appointed the Pastor of the Marvin Memorial Methodist Church in St. Louis, serving until 1898. The Rev. Moore was ordained a Deacon in the M.E.C., S. in 1894, and Elder in 1898. He was then transferred to the West Texas Annual Conference, where he served for four years as the Pastor of the Travis Park Church in San Antonio. In 1902 he was transferred to the North Texas Conference, where he was appointed to the First Methodist Church of Dallas, serving four years.\n\nIn 1906 Rev. Moore became the Managing Editor of \"The Daily Christian Advocate\" (1906–09), an important Methodist periodical of that day. He had previously been a member of the staff of the \"St. Louis Christian Advocate\", 1896–98, and of the \"Texas Christian Advocate\" in 1906. Rev. Moore returned to St. Louis in 1909 as Pastor of St. John's M.E.S. Church. However, in 1910 he was elected Secretary of the Department of Home Missions of his denomination. He served with distinction in this capacity until his election to the episcopacy in 1918, continuing also as a member in full connection of the North Texas Conference. His address was 810 Broadway, Nashville, Tennessee. Rev. Moore also was a Member of M.E.C., S. General Conferences in 1906 and 1914.\n\nThe Rev. John Monroe Moore served his denomination as a member of the Joint Committee on Editing for the 1905 \"Methodist Hymnal\". He was a member of the Federal Council of Methodism, and of the Committees on Evangelism and on Church and Country Life of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ. He was on the Executive Committee of the Home Missionary Council of his denomination. He also served in the Southern Society for Philosophy and Psychology.\n\nThe Rev. Dr. John Monroe Moore was elected a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, at the General Conference of 1918. He was assigned the work of the M.E. Church, South in Brazil (1918–22). Bishop Moore was then assigned to East Texas and Oklahoma (1922–26), then West Texas and New Mexico (1926–30). He was then sent to the Southeast to serve as Resident Bishop of Georgia and Florida (1930–34), then Missouri and Arkansas (1934–38). He retired from the active episcopacy in 1938. He died in Dallas on July 30, 1948 and was buried in that city August 2, 1948.\n\nThe honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon him by Central College of Missouri in 1908.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55943183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55943183", "title": "June Morita", "text": "June Morita\n\nJune Gloria Morita is an American statistician and statistics educator. She works as a principal lecturer in statistics at the University of Washington, and is known for her innovative lessons in statistics based on examples from real life. For instance, one of her classes tested whether helium-filled footballs travel farther than air-filled footballs, with the assistance of her son, Washington Huskies football place-kicker Eric Guttorp. Another lesson, for local elementary school students, tested the mark and recapture method by catching fish at the school's fish pond.\n\nMorita did her undergraduate and graduate education at the University of California, Berkeley. She graduated in 1976 with a double major in mathematics and anthropology, earned a master's degree in 1978, and completed her Ph.D. in 1984. Her dissertation, supervised by Kjell Doksum, was \"Nonparametric Methods for Matched Observations from Life Distributions\".\nMorita is married to Swedish statistician Peter Guttorp, who was also educated at Berkeley, and the two statisticians were the first new hires when the University of Washington first formed its statistics department in 1980.\n\nMorita won Washington's Distinguished Teaching Award in 1999.\nIn 2006, five years after her husband, she was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\nShe is also an elected member of the International Statistical Institute.\nIn 2009, the American Statistical Association gave Morita their Founders Award \"for outstanding leadership; for energetic service to the association as chapter president, regional vice chair, and chair of the Council of Chapters and a member of the Council of Sections Governing Board, the Board of Directors, and numerous committees; for initiating, promoting, and sustaining effective programs to enhance quantitative and statistical literacy in schools nationally and internationally, including \"Making Sense of Statistical Studies\" and programs to prepare undergraduates as mathematics/statistics tutors in middle schools; and for setting a standard of fun and excitement to the Council of Chapters activities at association meetings.\"\n"}
{"id": "4585808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585808", "title": "Kahootz", "text": "Kahootz\n\nKahootz was an education multimedia construction toolset created by the Australian Children's Television Foundation. Using this program, one can make 3D animations using the pre-made objects and backgrounds. It was used by many schools to teach not only making movies with the program but co-operation between the students.\n\nAs of 2012 the software is no longer available to purchase, and support has stopped.\n\nKahootz was designed for children. It made use of many colours, characters, movements and pictures. Many Australian schools had access to this program. In fact, the Victorian Government bought the program for every school in Victoria.\n\nKahootz starts up with a New Scene. A \"world\" is then chosen and characters and objects can be added in the same way as 3D Movie Maker. It is possible to zoom in and out and change the camera angle, as Kahootz is 3D, so it is as if you are in a real world.\n\nAnimating the object is similar to motion tweening in Macromedia Flash. A keyframe is created with the object in the desired position. A second keyframe is then created and the object is moved to the new desired position. One can then preview this with the convenient Preview button.\n\nMany scenes could be put into a collection called an xpression. These small files could then be converted in QuickTime and AVI movies for viewing.\n\nThere was a community online but it may no longer be active. Teachers and students could post their work online for others to view.\n\nKahootz Movie Maker is a plug-in to the program. It is used to convert into AVI (for Windows) and QuickTime (for the Mac) it also was used to convert files into oxis files, used for video editing uses.\n\nThis plug-in allowed the user to edit the patterns pre-loaded into the program. Support was added for this plug-in in the 2.0.4 update.\n\nThe first commercial release of Kahootz, which was version 2.0, was released in January 2003. Kahootz 2.0 was updated occasionally throughout the years until the final update, version 2.0.5, which was released August 2005.\n\nThe last version of Kahootz was Kahootz 3, released in May 2008.\n\nKahootz.com is now owned by UK company INOVEM, the developer of a cloud collaboration tool called Kahootz. It is widely used across the UK public sector and available via the government's G-Cloud framework. Kahootz provides secure online workspaces where users can share documents, manage projects and deliver agile ways of working.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26963117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26963117", "title": "Koobits", "text": "Koobits\n\nKooBits designs and builds digital products for children and educators. KooBits was founded in 2007 by Professor Sam Ge Shuzhi, Dr. Chen Xiangdong, and current CEO Stanley Han. The trio saw opportunity in the rapid growth of the ebook industry, and decided to focus on creating software for interactive enhanced ebooks.\n\nIn 2008, KooBits was the winner of the Asia Pacific ICT Awards 2008 (elearning) and the Infocomm Singapore Awards 2008 (elearning).\n\nKooBits received support from the Media Development Authority (MDA) in the development of Future Media and was one of the companies selected to receive funding in Interactive Digital Media projects. MDA also helped Personal e-Motion secure Venture Capital fund from Accel-X Pte Ltd. KooBits is part of the FutureBooks Partner Network initiated by MDA to develop Singapore-based learning from user-generated content to delivery across multiple platforms. PEM raised its first round of Venture Capital investments in July 2009 through NUS Enterprise ’s network of Business Angels and Venture Capitalists.\n\nKooBits provides the platform for the creation of ebooks for Young Reporters Training Camp program of Youth Olympic Games 2010, an initiative by the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts (MICA), Singapore.\n\nKooBits 4.0 is a place to shelve ebooks. Just as with a physical version, users can organize ebooks in a bookshelf either using the default categories or renaming them. Also, tools are available for highlighting and stamping on ebooks as well as opening PDF, EPUB, interactive KBJ ebooks and more. The software also enables audio and video input on top of animation of characters and game elements.\n\nThe KooBits Editor is a program that allows users to create multimedia ebooks, ecards, scrap books, photo montages and more. It is currently available in four languages: English, Chinese, Malay, and Tamil. Users can publish their ebooks on their user profile, share them on various social networks, and comment on books created.\n\nThe software's proprietary Content-Driven Animation technology allows users to trigger images, videos, and animations by entering or reading key words and phrases in an ebook. An Advanced Resource Pool allocation algorithm allows for high performance with real-time rendering of large-sized, progressively-downloading multimedia files and data encoding. KooBits Editor has also been developed with component-based capability for the application to be embedded in a third-party environments such as Facebook.\n\nThe KooBits Editor is being used by elearning companies and organizations in South East Asia, China, Maldives, and Kuwait, and is used by more than 90 schools in Singapore. In 2009, KooBits partnered with Singaporean bookstore Popular Holdings to promote and sell the software.\n\n"}
{"id": "35943789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35943789", "title": "Landegg International University", "text": "Landegg International University\n\nLandegg International University (LIU) was an independent, legally registered, private university in Landegg, Switzerland from September 1992 to December 2003, offering Bachelor and Master programs in Conflict Resolution, International and Community Development, Global Governance, International Leadership and Management (MBA), and Psychology.\n\nLandegg International University was legally registered with the cantonal Ministry of Education of Canton Appenzell-Ausserrhoden (Registration No.CH-300.6.013.105-2), and the Federal Registry, (in accordance with Articles 44, par.2 and Article 21), following five requirements of the Federal Department of Justice: (p79)\nDuring the period of its existence (1992 to 2003), the following vision and mission statements guided the development of Landegg International University:\n\nA Universal Vision: The primary objective of the curriculum of Landegg International University is to assist students to make fundamental contributions to the creation of such a civilization. All programs at Landegg International University are formulated according to the parameters of the nobility of human nature, the unity of humankind, and the harmony of scientific and spiritual principles. Landegg International University is continually evaluating its curriculum in light of new research and experience in order to anticipate the needs and challenges of humanity in the emerging global world order, and to prepare its students to meet those needs and challenges with insight, dedication, and expertise. (p6)\n\nA Global Campus: Landegg International University has both a physical and virtual global campus. The physical campus, which overlooks Lake Constance in Switzerland, aims at bringing together students from every country and territory of the world. Landegg students have come from more than thirty countries. The virtual campus, employing the latest information technology and lifelong education principles, will gradually bring the university to every interested and eligible student, thus connecting a large and diverse number of people in a universal web of knowledge and learning. The objective is to make the virtual campus universally accessible, affordable, and relevant. (p6)\n\nA Service Mandate: The ultimate aim of all knowledge is the betterment of the condition of human life, the nurturing of the nobility of human beings, the safeguarding of the principle of unity in diversity, and the creation of a civilization based on the fundamentals of the oneness of humanity. Landegg International University, through the agency of its Education for Peace (EFP) program and other similar projects, involves the entire university community of students, faculty, parents, and friends of Landegg in a global program of community development and service in pursuit of the above objectives. (p6)\n\nBy 2003 most non-research Degree and Certificate programs had finished their tenure. The taught Degree and Certificate programs offered at the time the university closed were: (p3)\nInternational faculty: Landegg International University’s courses were taught by an international faculty, holding appointments at recognized institutions, including Carleton College, Franklin & Marshall College, George Mason University, Lewis & Clark College, University of California (Los Angeles), and the University of Michigan, in the United States; Laval University, the Universities of Alberta, Toronto, Victoria and Winnipeg, in Canada; the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, in China; the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in Israel; the Universities of Melbourne and Tasmania, in Australia; the European University Centre for Peace Studies, in Austria; the London School of Economics, and Oxford University, in the UK. In addition, many faculty members had extensive experience with the United Nations, and with international development agencies, governments, and businesses. (p79)\n\nOne thousand one hundred sixteen Landegg students earned degrees or graduate certificates from Landegg International University.\n\nThe following outlines the management structure of the university under the direction and guidance of Landegg's Governing Board: (p85)\nOffice of the President\n\nFaculty of Graduate and Undergraduate Studies\n\nDivision of Financial Affairs – CFO\n\nDivision of Human Resources – Manager (Personnel Committee)\n\nDivision of Information Services (Information Services Committee)\n\nDivision of Admission and Registration\n\nThe former president of Landegg International University developed a new model of conflict resolution called 'conflict-free conflict resolution (CFCR). The theory of conflict-free conflict resolution indicates that the best way to overcome conflict is by seeking higher and higher levels of unity.\n\nBased on the CFCR model, Landegg developed a subsidiary program, called \"Education for Peace,\" which sought to help war-torn communities incorporate peace education into the standard public school curriculum. Education for Peace (EFP) was implemented across Bosnia-Herzegovina from 2000–2012, winning high praise from government and international officials. EFP trainings were also conducted in a number of other countries on a smaller scale.\n\nCollaborative Relationships: Landegg established collaborative, contractual and bilateral academic relationships with other academic institutions, including the University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh, USA, and with major corporations, including Sun Microsystems, and Macromedia. Landegg also has academic relationships with Beijing University in China, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in Israel, and the State University of Sergipe in Brazil. (p79)\n\nAcceptance of former Landegg students by other universities: Distinguished universities, including Harvard University, and Stanford University, in the USA; Leicester University, the London School of Economics, and Warwick University, in the UK; Dalhousie and Queens Universities, in Canada, and Jagiellonian University, in Poland, have accepted Landegg graduates and transferred their academic credits. (p79)\n\nIn 2001 some reflections by several Landegg students were recorded in an article about Landegg International University in One Country: The Online Newsletter of the Baha’i International Community.\n\nIn May 1997 Hand of the Cause of God Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum made her last trip outside the Holy Land when she came to visit Landegg in order to establish the Rabbani Chair for Bahá’í History. The events of this visit were recorded in the film Making History.\n\nIn the fall of 2003 the governing board of the University took the very difficult decision that because of the worsening financial condition of the University it would have to close the University at the end of 2003. The last formal convocation was held in December 2003. Every effort was made to transfer all undergraduate students who had not completed their degrees to other universities most with the credits they had already earned at Landegg. Graduate students who had completed all course lectures were assisted to complete written assignments and theses with the help of their professors via the Internet through the Registrar's office. Those with enough credits were awarded either their master‘s degree or their Graduate Certificate. The Governing Board arranged to have the complete academic records of the University preserved and that the registrar functions for transcript inquiries overseen into the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "43359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359", "title": "List of business schools in the United States", "text": "List of business schools in the United States\n\nThis is a list of business schools in the United States. Business schools are listed in alphabetical order by state, then name. Schools named after people are alphabetized by last name. Accreditation bodies for business schools in the United States include Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP), and International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE).\n\nThis list is sortable. Click on the boxes next to the attribute names to sort the list by state, school, parent university, etc.\n"}
{"id": "54498411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54498411", "title": "List of law schools in Austria", "text": "List of law schools in Austria\n\nThis is a list of faculties of law in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "1144460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144460", "title": "List of schools in Papua New Guinea", "text": "List of schools in Papua New Guinea\n\nHere is a partial list of preschools, primary schools, secondary schools, vocational education and university bodies both public and private in Papua New Guinea.\n\nYumbanokor primary school in East sepik province\n\n Grade 11 list*Kainantu High School, Kainantu, EHP\n\n"}
{"id": "9109217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9109217", "title": "Martha W. Alibali", "text": "Martha W. Alibali\n\nMartha W. Alibali is Professor of Psychology and Educational Psychology at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and an investigator at the Wisconsin Center for Education Research.\n\nShe is a cognitive and developmental psychologist who studies children’s knowledge and communication about mathematical concepts. Her research focuses on mechanisms of knowledge change in cognitive development and learning. In particular, she investigates the change processes that take place when children learn new concepts and problem-solving strategies, and when they express and communicate their knowledge in gestures and in speech. Her current research projects examine the function of spontaneous gestures in thinking and speaking, the transition from arithmetic to algebraic reasoning, and the nature of mathematical reasoning and communication in children with language impairments. Her work has been or is currently funded by the U.S. Department of Education, the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the James S. McDonnell Foundation, the Spencer Foundation, and the Interagency Educational Research Initiative. She earned her Ph.D. in Psychology at the University of Chicago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28929117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28929117", "title": "Military Engineering-Technical University", "text": "Military Engineering-Technical University\n\nThe Saint Petersburg Military Engineering-Technical University (Nikolaevsky) (, VITU), previously known as the Saint Petersburg Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy, was established in 1810 under Alexander I. The university is situated in the former barracks of the Cavalier-Guard Regiment where the university was founded.\n\nMilitary Engineering-Technical University is a higher military educational institution preparing officers of engineering and building specialties for all branches of troops and navy. It is located in Saint Petersburg where the university was founded, near Engineers Castle, Summer Garden, Suvorov Museum, Tauride Palace, and Smolny Convent.\n\nMilitary Engineering-Technical University has six faculties preparing specialists in the following branches: \n\nThe university trains experts in the field of construction of buildings and special structures, engineering and technical systems and power industry. It has a modern experimental base for testing various thermal-mechanical and power equipment, structures and construction materials, and carries out research and development activities. It provides military university trained officers for all the Engineering Troops of Russia, a counterpart of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Also, possibly teaching of foreigners.\n\nThis is one of Saint Petersburg's eldest Higher Military engineering schools, its history (as Higher learning institution) beginning in 1810. The Saint Petersburg Military Engineering-Technical University was founded as the Saint Petersburg military engineering School in 1810 on the base of the military school of engineering conductors (engineering of non-commissioned officers), after addition of officers classes and application of five-year term of teaching. In 1819 was renamed as the Main military engineering School. How Stephen Timoshenko wrote in a book \"Engineering Education in Russia\" the system of Higher learning institution of five-year Education of Main military engineering school was used later on the example of Institute of railway Engineers by all Russia and develops until now. This engineering school was alma mater of graduate for Fyodor Dostoyevsky. In 1855, officers classes of the Nikolaevsky Engineering School was reformed as the Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy.\n\nAfter 1917, numerous transformations of Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy and Engineering school were undertaken (but Higher learning institution survived). It was renamed as the Military-Engineering Academy, and then as Military-Technical Academy. But in 1932 followed the unsuccessful attempt of moving the Engineering Faculty to Moscow; it was completed later as the Sea Faculty returned to Leningrad in 1939 (As a result, from the base Saint Petersburg Engineering Higher learning institution was separated a new Moscow military Engineering-administrative academy). Only Nikolay Gerasimovich Kuznetsov could counteract Joseph Stalin`s policy against the Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy and school in 1939. He ordered that the university be revived, and that the Marine Engineering faculty be returned from Moscow. The attempts at bureaucratic movings (or Stalin's unfavorable attitude, 1932–1939) of the Saint Petersburg High School of Military Engineers can be examined in the historical context of the \"Military Case\" and Great Purge, on the eve of war against fascism. Also, Stalin's dislike of Fyodor Dostoyevsky was the reason of the unfavorable attitude against a university (because Stalin did not understand Dostoyevsky) .\n\nThere were destructive consequences of some degradation for the pedagogical and scientific forces of Saint Petersburg High School of Military Engineers, but it was successfully corrected only due to the donor help of Petersburg Polytechnical Institute. Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy was formally and legally reborn in 1939 as the Higher Naval Engineering Construction School on the base of the Leningrad Industrial Construction Engineers Institute (separate part of Saint Petersburg Polytechnical University), and enlarged with the Sea Engineering Faculty of the Moscow Military Academy. Higher Naval Engineering Construction School was renamed the Higher Naval Engineering Technical School. Leonid Kantorovich became the professor of Military Engineering-Technical University, previously known as the Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy, when it was revived on the site of part of the Polytechnical Institute.\n\nAlso, the academician Boris Galerkin took a general's uniform in 1939, as the head of VITU's structural mechanics department became a lieutenant general. In September 1960, VITU university was called the Order of the Red Banner Higher Military Engineering School and became part of the construction troops. In 1974, the university was named after A.N. Komarovsky. In 1993, the university was reformed as the Military Engineering-Technical Institute, which received its present-day name in 1997, after as did merger the Pushkin Higher Military Engineering Construction School.\n\nMilitary Engineering-Technical University directly took part in World War II. The graduating students of the university fought heroically at all fronts of that war. They showed spiritual force and quality of engineering competence. The forts and numerous fortifications buildings was established by the graduating students of university, all of it played a vital part in defending (for example Brest Fortress). So unique Krasnaya Gorka fort was constructed by the graduating students of VITU at the beginning of the 20th century with the installation of 12-inch guns in concrete casemates. The system of forts played a key part in the Siege of Leningrad. The VITU's graduating students by the commanders of Krasnaya Gorka fort did to finally stopped the offensive of fascists already in 1941. During the Siege of Leningrad, Boris Galerkin was the head of the city engineering defence department experts group. Also, he joined the military engineering commission of the Academy of Sciences. Hard non-stop work was undermining his health. Not long after the Victory, in , Galerkin died. Leonid Kantorovich was the professor of the VITU of the Navy, and there he was in charge of safety on the Road of Life; for his feat and courage he was awarded the Order of the Patriotic War. All employees of the university were decorated with the medal \"For Defense of Leningrad\". In 1944, the university was the recipient of the Order of the Red Banner award, and VITU's cadets participated in the historic Moscow Victory Parade of 1945.\n\nMilitary Engineering-Technical University prolongs, saves and develops the scientific and pedagogical traditions of Saint Petersburg High (higher learning institution) School of Military Engineers, the Nikolaevsky Engineering Academy and Nikolaevsky Engineering School, in the place of its own historical motherland. In present days, traditions about the unique quality of pedagogical qualification of professors and teachers are saved with punctilious care. So Leonid Artamonov, a Russian engineer, geographer and traveler, military adviser of Menelik II, was the example of tradition of university about harmonic association of spiritual force and engineering competence. The Saint Ignatius Bryanchaninov chose way of spiritual service.\n\nDmitri Mendeleev was Professor of Chemistry at the Saint Petersburg Military Engineering-Technical University. Mendeleev got married at Nikolaev Engineering-technical University's church. So a professor Aleksey Shuliachenko, an engineer and chemist, known as the \"grandfather of the Russian cement\", was his student. Also, Aleksey Shuliachenko was able to become a professor for a future academician Boris Galerkin at the St. Petersburg Technological Institute.\n\nIn total, the University prepared more than 45,000 military engineers. Among its alumni and faculty are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1785564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1785564", "title": "Minnesota Historical Society", "text": "Minnesota Historical Society\n\nThe Minnesota Historical Society (MNHS) is a nonprofit educational and cultural institution dedicated to preserving the history of the U.S. state of Minnesota. It was founded by the territorial legislature in 1849, almost a decade before statehood. The Society is named in the Minnesota Constitution. It is headquartered in the Minnesota History Center in downtown St. Paul.\n\nAlthough its focus is on Minnesota history it is not constrained by it. Its work on the North American fur trade has been recognized in Canada as well.\n\nMNHS holds a collection of nearly 550,000 books, 37,000 maps, 250,000 photographs, 225,000 historical artifacts, 950,000 archaeological items, of manuscripts, of government records, 5,500 paintings, prints and drawings; and 1,300 moving image items.\n\n\"MNopedia: The Minnesota Encyclopedia\", is since 2011 an online \"resource for reliable information about significant people, places, events, and things in Minnesota history\", that is funded through a Legacy Amendment Arts and Cultural Heritage Fund grant and administered by the Minnesota Historical Society.\n\nThe Minnesota Historical Society operates 31 historic sites and museums, 26 of which are open to the public. MNHS manages 14 sites directly and 10 in partnerships where the society maintains the resources and provides funding. Five sites are being held for preservation but are closed to public access, and two are self-guided sites with interpretive signage. Seven of the sites are National Historic Landmarks and 16 others are on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). Seven sites lie within Minnesota state parks, and three are elements of the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area.\n\nThese publications are described in more detail in an \"online\" format (without the downloadable document formats available above), at the MHC's own Digital History Books page (Retrieved November 24, 2012)\n\n"}
{"id": "52191023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52191023", "title": "National Standard Examination in Astronomy", "text": "National Standard Examination in Astronomy\n\nThe National Standard Examination in Astronomy or NSEA is an examination in \nphysics for higher secondary school students, usually conducted in the end of November (last or second last Sunday). Organized by the Indian Association of Physics Teachers in association with Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education (HBCSE), NSEA is the first stage of selection of students in the IOAA. The NSEA is carried out every year since 1987 in English, Hindi & a few other Indian languages. About 16000 students from over 1,200 centres take part in these olympiads.\n\nOnly Indian citizens born on or after July 1999 and are students studying in Class XII or lower as of 30 June 2004, can apply and appear for NSEA 2018-19. The student has to himself re-assure his eligibility. At any stage if the student is found to be not eligible for the exam, he/she may be disqualified from the program.\n\nBefore 2014-15, The NSEA comprised both multiple choice questions and subjective questions. Due to the large volume of participating students, all questions were not checked for all candidates; subjective questions were checked for only those candidates scoring above a certain minimum in the multiple choice questions. Multiple choice questions carried about 60% of the total weightage and were the crucial determinant for selection to the next stage.\nThe present format (from 2014-15 onwards) is composed entirely of 80 multiple-choice questions.\n\nThe medium of test is English only and comprises 80 objective type questions, each with only one of the four options correct with 3 marks each and -1 negative marking for incorrect answer.\n\nThe basic objective of conducting this test is not focusing on merit but to involve as many students from the country to participate in the exam and try to show and expose their talent. Hence the selection to the stage II examinations i.e. Indian National Olympiad Examinations (INOs) is based on the following scheme.\n\nTo be eligible to get to the next level, i.e. the second stage, it is necessary that a student scores at-least a Minimum Admissible Score (MAS) which is 50% of the maximum score.\n\nThe maximum number of students that can get to Stage II (INO) in each subject is around 300. These many students are not selected only on the merit basis but also on proportionate basis. This proportion is decided on the base of the number of candidates who appeared for NSE in the previous year from that center in each State or Union Territory (UT). In case there is a tie at the last position, then all the students competing for the last position will be eligible to move to stage II. However it’s necessary that the selected students fulfill the eligibility clause laid out above. The total number to be selected from centers in each State for each subject will be displayed on the IAPT and HBCSE website.\n\nNotwithstanding the proportional representation clause the number of students selected for INO from each State and UT must be at least one, provided that the eligibility clause is satisfied.\n\nAs stated above, approximately 300 students are to be selected for second stage. If this does not happen according to MAS, then after selection as per merit, the shortfall from 300 students will be selected based purely on merit without further consideration to proportional representation and minimum representation clauses. In the event of a tie at the last position in the list all students with the same marks at this position will qualify to appear for the Stage II examination.\n\nThe fee for the NSEA is about Rs. 100 ($5 for overseas candidates). Application for this examination is typically handled through the school/college to which the student is affiliate\n\nHeld in January, this is a subjective exam. Students are divided into two pools; A, with those in class 12, and B, with those in class 11 or below. The 25 top performers from each pool are selected for the Orientation-Cum-Selection-Camp (OCSC), Astronomy.\n\nThe students are taught and tested on data analysis, theory and observation. From their performance in the tests, a team of five students is selected to represent India in IOAA.\n\n"}
{"id": "29823579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29823579", "title": "Oliveria Prescott", "text": "Oliveria Prescott\n\nOliveria Louisa Prescott (3 September 1843 – 1919) was an English writer and composer.\n\nOliveria Prescott was born in London, the daughter of Frederick Joseph Prescott and Elizabeth Oliveria Russell. She studied with Lindsay Sloper and then at the Royal Academy of Music under George Alexander Macfarren. She became Macfarren's amenuensis.\n\nShe lectured in harmony and composition for Newnham College, Cambridge, and also taught harmony at the High School for Girls in Baker Street, London.\n\nPrescott composed several overtures, a piano concerto, shorter orchestral pieces, vocal and choral works and two symphonies.\n\nSelected works include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9942303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9942303", "title": "Prince of Wales School (Freetown, Sierra Leone)", "text": "Prince of Wales School (Freetown, Sierra Leone)\n\nPrince of Wales School is an all-boys secondary school in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Girls are admitted into its sixth form \"A\" Level program. The school was established on April 6, 1925, with an emphasis on fostering science education and modern languages studies.\n\nPrince of Wales School was inaugurated by His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales, on April 6, 1925. It is one of Sierra Leone's top schools.\n\nThe Prince of Wales School was formally established in Freetown, Republic of Sierra Leone on April 6, 1925, with a purposeful insistence on fostering science education, and studies in modern languages. The school marked a turning point in secondary education in Sierra Leone, as its inception ushered the period in which the Sierra Leone government actively sought to control wasteful multiplication, religious bigotry, and denominational rivalry in secondary school.\n\nSince its inauguration, the Prince of Wales School has demonstrated, with consistency, an affinity for Excellence in Education by relentlessly providing a model for a Balanced and High Quality Education at the secondary level in Sierra Leone. Its graduates have also occupied prominent positions of trust, altruism, and responsibility in Sierra Leone as well as in the international community.\n\nThe Prince of Wales Alumni Association-Georgia Branch was founded in 2002 by a cohort of former Students of the Prince of Wales Secondary School residing in the United States who not only saw the need for substantial financial, material and infra-structural support to their alma mater but also were prepared to make the necessary sacrifices destined to improve the quality of teaching and learning at the Prince of Wales School in Sierra Leone. Their patriotic zeal coupled with their conviction that they could make a difference in improving the human condition as well as positively influence posterity gave birth to the Prince Of Wales Alumni Association - Georgia Branch, U.S.A.\n\nFrancis Nicol, Ph. D.\nFrancis Thompson, Esq\n\nThe school song was introduced by the late principal, William J. Davies, MBE in 1936\n\n1. Come swell the chorus one and all and join the ranks with me;\nProsperity to the Prince's boys upstanding three times three.\nDear as of old and dear as now and despite any storm\nLong live for many a thousand years our Prince of Wales, Kingtom\n\nCHORUS:\n\nFor searching Sierra Leone far and wide, no school can well be found;\nThat sends forth truer gentlemen, or stands on firmer ground.\n\n2. T'is not alone in science lore her manly sons excel;\nThe cricket and the athletic grounds their tale of triumph tell.\nThe Church, the State, the Camp and Bar, with varied voice attest,\nThat whereso'er bright honour calls, her sons are with the best.\n\n3. As on her walls we read the names renowned in former days,\nWith beating hearts we vow to match their daring and their praise;\nFor who would care through time to drift with dull and drowsy face,\nUnworthy of his faith and name, his father and his race.\n\n4. Though scattered far we seldom meet the friends our boyhood knew,\nOld joys and griefs in memory dwell, toned down to sober hue,\nAnd as some well remembered name grows great, we glow with pride,\nTo think that in our youthful days, we struggled at his side.\n\n5. And when at last old age is ours and manhood's strength has fled,\nAnd young ambition's fire is cold and earthly hopes lie dead;\nWe feel our boyhood's thrill once more and think its just life's morn,\nAnd leave a niche within our hearts for Prince of Wales, Kingtom.\n\n"}
{"id": "28646372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28646372", "title": "Princess Christian's Farm", "text": "Princess Christian's Farm\n\nPrincess Christian's Farm is an educational facility geared towards people with learning disabilities. The farm is run by a partnership with Kent County Council Social Services for the benefit of adults with learning difficulties and disabilities. The overall aim of the partnership is for the individuals to learn new skills and develop opportunities to move into employment.\n\nSituated on the outskirts of Hildenborough (near Tonbridge, Kent), Princess Christian’s Farm was first purchased in 1910 by Princess Christian, the third daughter of Queen Victoria, as a home for people with learning difficulties.\n\nIt was intended that the farm would be self-supporting - growing vegetables, keeping cattle and poultry. In the early days a milk round was started which was done initially on foot and then later by pony and milk float. This practice continued until around 1935.\n\nIn 1948, with the advent of the National Health Service, the Farm became a subsidiary of Leybourne Grange and admissions were made through a Regional Board. The Farm still served as a place where those with learning difficulties could work and contribute to the community. This continued until 1984, when the Health Authority made the decision that it was inappropriate for it to be running a farm. Following negotiations with Kent County Council Social Services, of land and the farm buildings were taken over by KCC in 1987, with the remaining let out to local farmers through grazing agreements. These agreements usually ran for a period of less than one year, and due to a lack of maintenance after 1984 the fields were soon in a poor state, with minimal fencing and weeds dominating pasture. In 1990 the final farmer with a grazing agreement left and the land became redundant until, in 1991, Princess Christian’s Farm took back the land with a grazing agreement agreed between Kent County Council and the Health Authority.\n\nThis additional land proved to be a great asset to the Farm, enabling them to keep up to 200 sheep, make hay and build a nature trail which is accessible to people with learning disabilities.\n\nIn October 2009, Hadlow College – the local land-based college – took over the running of Princess Christian’s Farm. Run in partnership with Kent County Council Social Services for the benefit of adults with learning difficulties and disabilities, the overall aim of the partnership is for the individuals to learn new skills and develop opportunities to move into employment.\n\nAs a traditional working farm, Princess Christian’s Farm comprises approximately of pasture and woodland. It produces its own pork, lamb and beef as well as oven ready chickens and over 1,000 eggs a day. Each Christmas quality turkeys are reared for local customers. Much of the produce is sold through its own farm shop and local butchers.\n\nWithin the glasshouses and polytunnels the horticulture department grows a range of plants, herbs and vegetables for sale in the Farm Shop alongside planters and hanging baskets. The farm kitchen provides hot lunches for the students and produces cakes and pastries for local farmers’ markets.\n\nThere are currently places for up to 25 individuals a day at Princess Christian’s Farm. Underpinning the curriculum are the following values:\n\n\nThese values are designed to demonstrate a commitment by Hadlow College and its staff to ensure that the education fulfils the needs of the students, as well as to acknowledge to the student their need to be challenged and supported.\n\nA student’s first month at Princess Christian’s Farm includes an initial assessment, which includes a one-to-one interview, tasters and staff observations as well as talking with the key agencies involved.\n\nIn working with Hadlow College there is an aim for the students at Princess Christian’s Farm to benefit from a much wider access to different activities and qualifications in animal management, horticulture, conservation and agriculture. Another aim is for them to be able to find different work placements.\n\nIt is the College’s aim that all students progress to their maximum possible level of independence so that they can become active in their communities and in employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "31250840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31250840", "title": "Project DIANE", "text": "Project DIANE\n\nProject DIANE, an acronym for Diversified Information and Assistance NEtwork, was a very early videoconferencing based community service network created in the United States. DIANE was a grassroots driven regional videoconferencing consortium which promoted and supported cooperative electronic alliances in education, community service, and economic development.\n\nCreated in 1992 in Nashville, Tennessee, Project DIANE was in active operation as a centrally managed public service network until 2006 when funding issues prevented its further development and expansion. Portions of the network still remain in service, however, though no longer under the Project DIANE moniker.\n\nPeak network membership consisted of more than 200 participating organizations and more than 350 program and technical coordinators, supporting live interactive video programming over a service region consisting of twelve U.S. states and five countries.\n\nProject DIANE was first proposed in 1992 as a regional diversity development project collaboration between the U.S. Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and a small consortium of public and private universities located within TVA's six state service region. After a year of deliberations and two successful community based field pilots, Project DIANE was given startup funding by the TVA.\n\nThe two field pilots, named the Nashville Pilot and the City Share Pilot were instrumental in demonstrating that videoconferencing technology was a viable and highly flexible mechanism through which to deliver a broad array of educational, economic development and public service resources to the general public. Both pilots were carried out with the participation of several dozen community service organizations, governmental agencies and corporations.\n\nPrimary sponsors and underwriters of the two pilots included TVA, BellSouth, IBM, and PictureTel (later purchased by Polycom). The Nashville Pilot was an intracity test of desktop videoconferencing technology with application test sites in Nashville, Tennessee constructed at Tennessee State University, Cumberland Science Museum (later renamed the Adventure Science Center) and the Looby Public Library.\n\nOne month after conclusion of the Nashville Pilot, the City Share Pilot testbed was created by connecting the three Nashville video test locations to additional video sites constructed in Huntsville, Alabama. A large portfolio of community oriented and educational test applications between Nashville and Huntsville were launched with a 40-minute discussion of intercity cooperation between the mayors of the cities. It is believed that the City Share pilot was the first ever intercity videoconference link ever constructed for non-commercial purposes.\n\nIn the years following the project's pilot startup, many public and private organizations participated in the network's public service programming and donated both in-kind and financial resources. Network participants and supporters were also successful in securing a wide bevy of public and private grants to pay for different types of community applications which utilized the project.\n\nProject DIANE's primary objectives were to: \n\nThere were two notable aspects about the network. First, the project was designed as a broad-based, rather than niche-focused, community telecollaboration. DIANE membership reflected a wide spectrum of community organizations which came together online to jointly plan and carry out public programs and services.\n\nThe project was represented by most segments of the community, both in an organizational context (e.g., schools, community centers, libraries, business agencies, etc.) and individually (child through senior adult, families, handicapped, urban and rural, etc.) DIANE was inherently a \"project of projects\" with teleconferencing applications in the three target areas of education, community service and economic development.\n\nA second key aspect of this project was that, from its inception, DIANE members worked diligently to include disadvantaged or neglected members of society in consortium program development activities. The avoidance of a two-tier cyber-society of \"haves\" vs. \"have-nots\" was a high priority. DIANE members took special care to include low income inner city residents, developmentally disabled children, senior citizens, speech and hearing impaired individuals, and other potential information highway have-nots in program development activities.\n\nOnline members of the consortium included family and community centers, speech & hearing treatment centers, K-12 schools, zoos, museums, public libraries, universities, language institutes, skill training centers, chambers of commerce, economic development agencies, healthcare groups, overseas military bases & dependents schools, and other service organizations.\n\nSpecific notable members of the project included the Small Business Administration sponsored Small Business Development Centers, the Tennessee Foreign Language Institute, the Adventure Science Center, Vanderbilt University, the Tennessee Foreign Language Institute, Tennessee League for the Deaf & Hard of Hearing, the Nashville Zoo, the Metropolitan Action Commission, Urban League of Nashville, the Boys & Girls Club, the Girl Scouts of Middle Tennessee, the Catholic Diocese of Nashville, the Tennessee State Library & Archives, the Elephant Sanctuary of Hohenwald, the Nashville Public Library System, the Bank of America Small Business Resource Centers, and the U.S. Department of Defense Overseas Dependents School System.\n\nTelecollaboration was inherently the method by which DIANE organizations educated and assisted one another. Real-time telecollaboration took place in all project activities through two-way electronic exchanges between a resource provider (such as a K-12 teacher, college professor, business counselor, social worker, therapist, or other expert professional) and a person in need (e.g., student, small/minority business entrepreneur, researcher, family member, handicapped person, senior citizen, etc.). Real-time multimedia information exchanges occurred during videoconferences via electronic whiteboards, remote application sharing, electronic messaging, hi-speed file transfer and other means.\n\nDIANE's program portfolio included various independent and inter-dependent telecollaborations, offering resources and assistance to both mainstream and disadvantaged community segments. In addition to the general program descriptions given in this section, interested parties were able to click to the Project DIANE Directory and read the \"DIANE Program & Resource Profile\" for each individual organization. General teleconference based program areas established by the project included: the Economic Development Partnership, Tennessee Child Development Partnership, Teachers' Teleconferencing Curriculum Forum, Internet Distance Training, Global Community Project, and others.\n\nExamples of specific program activities within these general program areas included the following: The Tennessee League for the Hearing Impaired offered videoconferencing-based Deaf culture workshops, sign language instruction, and translation services. Looby Metro Public Library supported a distance mentorship program called \"Adopt-a-Grandparent\" in which senior citizen library volunteers provide guidance and counseling to disadvantaged youth who called in from DIANE's community center locations. Therapists and physicians at the Bill Wilkerson Speech & Hearing Center and the Vanderbilt Child Development Center electronically assisted disabled children, including adolescents with autism and related communication disorders. High school students and teachers regularly consulted online with the project's educational resources such as the Cumberland Science Museum (e.g., for science information, environmental workshops, etc.) and to Meharry Medical College (e.g., to learn about viruses), etc.\n\nThe use of videoconferencing technology to electronically and interactively take students to exotic and faraway places was pioneered by Project DIANE. An important supplement to in-class instruction, schoolchildren frequently were able to go on electronic field trips through the DIANE network for meaningful interactive real-world learning experiences.\n\nThe Nashville Zoo conducted videoconferences with area schools to bring students safe interactive experiences with rare snow leopards and other wild animals. Animal conservationists from the Elephant Sanctuary in Lewis County, TN provided teleconference-based seminars on elephants and the need for animal preservation, even connecting video callers to remote cameras located in the elephant grazing pasture. Radnor Lake State Natural Area offered students a wide range of teleconference activities involving environmental conservation, water ecology, and wireless video/underwater camera views of its wildlife residents.\n\nOften, Project DIANE electronic field trips took the children to international locations such as France, England, Japan, or to meet interesting people such as jet pilots, film actors and corporate executives. The Tennessee Foreign Language Institute conducted world culture seminars and foreign language instruction to DIANE participants, also providing students remote playback access to its 250+ international tape library. Tennessee's state information repository, the Tennessee State Library & Archives, provided interactive teleconference-based history seminars, library reference assistance, and live curator based video access to its rare manuscript collection, includes original American Civil War photographs, historic architectural drawings, original letters of President Andrew Jackson, the 1796 Tennessee State Constitution, etc.\n\nConnected schools and community centers teleconferenced with the local public library for story telling hour and puppet shows, with NationsBank's Small Business Resource Center and the Nashville Area Chamber for youth career planning and entrepreneurship programs, and with Meharry Medical College for health and hygiene workshops. An advanced placement (AP) course shared curriculum was being developed for use by area high schools. Current AP course development included environmental science and biology.\n\nRegarding business development programs, any area business with compatible technologies could access Project DIANE's online economic development member agencies, including SBRC business experts, SBRC library resources, SBDC business counselors, area chamber of commerce program personnel, university business faculty, etc.\n\nInternational recognitions of Project DIANE included: Polycom Corporation’s \"Exceptional Content Provider Award\" (8/03), a Top 5 Rating by the European Commission's \"Global Bangemann Challenge\" (Stockholm, 6/99); 6 NII \"Global Information Infrastructure\" award citations (12/96-2/98) including an AT&T Special Telecollaboration Award; a \"national success story\" citation by the President's National Information Advisory Council (2/96), and an \"Awards Laureate\" designation by the Smithsonian Institution \"Information Technology Awards Program\" (6/95).\n\nKey invited presentations and demonstrations of Project DIANE programming include national conferences and forums hosted by the American Library Association (Atlanta, GA, 6/02), National Science Foundation (Berkeley, CA, 12/00), U.S. Dept of Commerce (Washington DC, 4/98) and the White House (Philadelphia PA, 4/97).\n\nProject DIANE began as an all Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) BRA based community network using desktop personal computers deploying an H.320 codec, which later evolved into a hybrid switched digital and Internet IP based H.320/H.324 platform. It should be noted that the videoconferencing equipment used by Project DIANE in the Nashville and City Share startup field pilots were all OS/2 based videoconference units (PCS/1s) provided through a joint development partnership at the time between PictureTel and the IBM Corporation. These early video units were replaced during the startup phase with Windows OS-based PC desktop units.\n\nIn later years, the project's infrastructure also included a large number of set top videoconference units, as well as several dozen videoconferencing units for conference rooms. In the late 1990s, a large corporate donation of more than a hundred new videoconference units more than doubled the size of DIANE to more than two hundred video locations.\n\nProject DIANE also later acquired a Tandberg Multipoint Control Unit (MCU), sometimes referred to as a video bridge or gateway, which allowed the network to deliver its interactive programming to up to 16 separate locations simultaneously. Funding for the MCU's required network connections (a Primary Rate Access high speed digital telephone line and an IP broadband access line) was provided by Tennessee State University and the Tennessee Department of Human Services, Rehabilitation Services Division.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18767507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18767507", "title": "Rajkumar Singhajit Singh", "text": "Rajkumar Singhajit Singh\n\nRajkumar Singhajit Singh, (born May 1, 1935) is a leading exponent, choreographer and a guru of Indian classical dance form of Manipuri, including the Pung cholom and Raslila. He was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1984 and the Padma Shri in 1986 for his contribution to the Manipuri dance. In the year 2011, Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's The National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama, awarded him with its highest award, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship for his contribution to Indian Dance.\n\nGuru Singhajit Singh and his wife Charu Sija Mathur, who is also a Sangeet Natak Akademi Award recipient, have established, \"Manipuri Nrityashram\", a Manipuri dance school, in New Delhi.\n\nRajkumar Singhajit Singh was born in a family of dancers and musicians in Manipur. Early in life, he was fortunate to receive his dance education from the finest gurus of Manipuri dance, starting with ‘Guru Ojha Iboton Singh’ (1942–46) for Pung (drum), followed by ‘Guru Amubi Singh’ (1948–54) – Jagoi; ‘Guru Thambal Angou Singh’ (1950–52) - Kartal Chalom; ‘Guru Chauba Singh’ (1952–53) - Kartal Chalom; and with ‘Guru Ojha Gaura Singh’ (1952–53) from whom he learned the martial arts with Sword & Spear, and soon established himself as a dancer, choreographer and artist of repute \n\nHe joined Triveni Kala Sangam, New Delhi, in 1954, as Head of the Manipur Dance Section, and later in 1962, founded the ‘Triveni Ballet’ of which he was Director and Principal Dancer.\n\nOver the year, he and his dance troupe, have extensively travelled to several countries in Europe, the former USSR, North and South America, Japan, West Asia and Africa. Their recent choreography, \"Ashta Nayika\", has received wide recognition, from both viewers and critics alike \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3660935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660935", "title": "Robert Antoni", "text": "Robert Antoni\n\nRobert Antoni (born 1958) is a West Indian writer who was awarded the 1999 Aga Khan Prize for Fiction by \"The Paris Review\" for \"My Grandmother's Tale of How Crab-o Lost His Head\". He is a Guggenheim Fellow for 2010 for his work on the historical novel \"As Flies to Whatless Boys\".\n\nRobert Antoni was born in the United States of Trinidadian parents and grew up largely in the Bahamas, where his father practised medicine. He says his \"fictional world\" is \"Corpus Christi\", the invented island (based on Trinidad) that he introduced in his first novel, \"Divina Trace\" (1991).\n\nAntoni studied at Duke University and in the creative writing programme at Johns Hopkins University, before joining the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa, where he began working on \"Divina Trace\". \nHe has said that he spent a total of ten years completing the novel, which won the Commonwealth Writers' Prize for best first novel in 1992.\n\nAntoni lived for a time in Barcelona and taught at the University of Miami from 1992 to 2001. In 2004, he began teaching at Barnard College, Columbia University and The New School. In 2010, he was a Guggenheim Fellow.\n\nHis novel \"As Flies to Whatless Boys\" was the overall winner of the 2014 OCM Bocas Prize for Caribbean Literature. At the award ceremony on 26 April, Antoni pledged to share the US$10,000 prize money with the other finalists, Lorna Goodison (winner of the poetry category for \"Oracabessa\") and Kei Miller (winner of the literary non-fiction category for \"Writing Down the Vision: Essays and Prophecies\"). Kei Miller and Antoni were both features presenters at the 2018 Key West Literary Seminar: Writers of the Caribbean.\n\nAntoni currently resides in New York City where he teaches Literature at The New School for Public Engagement. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13792191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13792191", "title": "Russell Berman", "text": "Russell Berman\n\nRussell A. Berman (born May 14, 1950) is an American professor of German Studies and Comparative Literature. He is the Walter A. Haas Professor in the Humanities at Stanford University. He is also a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. He is the director of Stanford's Thinking Matters program. He previously served as associate dean and director of Stanford's Overseas Studies Program.\n\nBorn in Boston, Massachusetts, Berman received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard University in 1972 and completed a doctorate at Washington University in 1979. Since 1979, Berman has been on the faculty at Stanford University. In 2004, he became the editor of \"Telos\", a quarterly journal of critical theory which has included extensive discussions of the Frankfurt School as well as Carl Schmitt. In 2011, he served as president of the Modern Language Association (MLA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38351040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38351040", "title": "Saroja Vaidyanathan", "text": "Saroja Vaidyanathan\n\nSaroja Vaidyanathan (born 19 September 1937) is a choreographer, guru and a notable exponent of Bharatanatyam. She was conferred the Padma Shri in 2002 and the Padma Bhushan in 2013 by the Government of India.\n\nSaroja was born in Bellary, Karnataka in 1937. She received her initial training in Bharatanatyam at the Saraswati Gana Nilayam in Chennai and later studied under guru Kattumannar Muthukumaran Pillai of Thanjavur. She has also studied Carnatic music under Professor P. Sambamoorthy at Madras University and has a D.Litt in dance from the Indira Kala Sangeet Vishwavidyalaya, Khairagarh.\n\nSaroja gave up dancing after her marriage following conservative and adverse reactions to her performing in public venues and took instead to teaching children dance at home. Following her husband's transfer to Delhi in 1972, she established the Ganesa Natyalaya there in 1974. She was monetarily supported by well wishers and sponsors and the building for the Natyalaya came up at the Qutub Institutional Area in 1988. Besides the dance itself, students at the Ganesh Natyalaya are also taught Tamil, Hindi and Carnatic vocal music to give them a holistic understanding of Bharatanatyam.\n\nSaroja is a prolific choreographer and has to her credit ten full length ballets and nearly two thousand individual Bharatanatyam items. She undertook a cultural tour of South East Asia in 2002, accompanying Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's visit to the ASEAN Summit in 2002. She has also published her renditions of Subramania Bharati's songs and poems and some of his works have also been set to dance by her.\n\nSaroja Vidyanathan has written a number of books on Bharatanatyam and Carnatic music including \n\"The Classical Dances of India\", \"Bharatanatyam – An In-Depth Study\", \"Carnataka Sangeetham\", and \"The Science of Bharatanatyam\".\n\nSaroja's (née Dharmarajan) parents were both authors and her mother Kanakam Dharmarajan was a writer of detective fiction in Tamil. Saroja is married to Vaidyanathan an IAS officer of the Bihar cadre. The couple have a son, Kamesh and their daughter in law Rama Vaidyanathan is a well known Bharatanatyam artiste of international fame.\n\nSaroja was conferred the Padma Shri in 2002 and the Padma Bhushan in 2013 by the Government of India. She is also the recipient of the Sahitya Kala Parishad Samman of the Government of Delhi, the Kalaimamani title bestowed by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. She was conferred the title of 'Bharata Kalai Sudar' in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "33106517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33106517", "title": "Stanford Engineering Everywhere", "text": "Stanford Engineering Everywhere\n\nStanford Engineering Everywhere, or SEE is an initiative started by Andrew Ng at Stanford University to offer a number of Stanford courses free online. SEE's initial set of courses was funded by Sequoia Capital, and offered instructional videos, reading lists and assignments. The portal was designed to assist both the students and teachers across the world. This is similar to initiatives like MIT OpenCourseWare, where some of the courses are available for viewing for the online students community at no charge. \n\nSEE initially offered ten courses from the Stanford School of Engineering, including three course introductory sequence from computer science. The courses offered are from the fields of databases, artificial intelligence and computer programming. \n\nIn Fall 2011, the SEE program was expanded to offer full online courses in Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Databases. Each of these courses had an enrollment of about 100,000 students and up, and students can register and view the courses, raise queries and submit assignments online. Some of the courses are divided into \"basic\" and \"advanced\" categories.\n\n"}
{"id": "10510635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10510635", "title": "Todd Bolender", "text": "Todd Bolender\n\nTodd Bolender (February 27, 1914 – October 12, 2006) was a renowned ballet dancer, teacher, choreographer, and director. He was an instrumental figure in the creation and dissemination of classical dance and ballet as an American art form. A child of the American Midwest during the Great Depression, he studied under George Balanchine and led the Kansas City Ballet in Kansas City, Missouri, from 1980 to 1995.\n\nBorn in Canton, Ohio on February 27, 1914, Bolender grew up in a family in which the arts, music and theater in particular, were an important part of life. The extremely lively child—one of four—was early on dubbed the dancer of the family and his physical energy channeled in lessons in acrobatic tap. In 1931, when he was 17, Bolender went to New York, which he said in an interview in 2002 seemed to him like a “kind of heaven”, to study theatrical dance. In 1933 he moved to New York for good, taking up full-time residence there at about the same time George Balanchine arrived in this country.\n\nAttendance at a concert by Mary Wigman led Bolender to Hanya Holm, who he said later saved him from bad teaching. Social acquaintance with Balanchine, however, made a strong impression. Under Balanchine’s supervision, Bolender studied at the fledgling School of American Ballet with such Russian teachers as Pierre Vladimiroff, Felia Dubrovska, Anatole Oboukhoff and Ludmilla Schollar. He also trained with Muriel Stuart and, pursuing a strong interest in modern dance, studied with Louis Horst and Harald Kreutzberg. The two greatest influences on his choreography, Bolender was to say later, were Wigman and Uday Shankar, both of whom he saw perform in New York in the early thirties, along with Kreutzberg. Asked why he became a ballet dancer, Bolender said simply it was the Depression and he needed a job.\n\nAs a dancer, Bolender had an unusually long career, lasting from 1936 to 1972 when he performed onstage for the last time in New York City Ballet’s Stravinsky Festival, for which he also choreographed two pieces, \"Serenade in A\" and \"Piano-Rag-Music\". Not only was he a member of every permutation of the company that became New York City Ballet, he also danced with Littlefield Ballet in the late thirties, performing in Catherine Littlefield’s \"Barn Dance\" and the first American \"Sleeping Beauty\". He performed with Les Ballets Russe de Monte Carlo for one season (1945-46) and with Ballet Theatre for four months in 1944 before being sidelined with an injury.\n\nBolender was a versatile dancer, originating roles in the work of Balanchine — most notably \"Four Temperaments\", \"Renard\", and \"Agon\" — and in much of the choreography of Jerome Robbins as well. In Lew Christensen’s work, he originated the State Trooper in \"Filling Station\" and Alias in \"Billy the Kid\". Critic and historian Doris Hering, writing in the \"International Dictionary of the Ballet\" calls him “a superb comedian with a penchant for high camp.” Describing him in Jerome Robbins’ \"The Concert\", she writes: “[he] was a henpecked husband who constantly escaped into daydreams of sexual conquest. Clad in a vest and long underwear and chewing on a huge cigar, he was the prototype of ... J. Walter Mitty.” Longtime New York City Ballet observer Robert Garis said of him in \"Agon\", “[his] easy wit and charm in the first pas de trois seem unrecapturable” (\"ibid.\")\n\n\"Mother Goose Suite\", made in 1943, was the first of some three dozen ballets Bolender made in the course of his long career, eleven of them for New York City Ballet. Bolender’s choreography is in the repertoires of Kansas City Ballet, New York City Ballet, American Ballet Theatre, the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, San Francisco Ballet, Pacific Northwest Ballet, The Joffrey Ballet, and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. His best known works, both of which are still in active repertoire, are \"Souvenirs\" and \"The Still Point\", both made in 1955.\n\nTodd Bolender's illustrious career allotted him the opportunity to work and cultivate relationships with Igor Stravinsky, Aaron Copland, Virgil Thomson and Samuel Barber.\n\nWhile the bulk of his choreography was for ballet companies, Bolender also choreographed for musical theater, opera and television, starting in 1952 with \"Time Remembered\" for Albi Marre Productions. In 1969, he choreographed \"The Conquering Hero\", followed by \"Cry for Us All\" in 1970. In Turkey, where he worked in the seventies, Bolender choreographed \"My Fair Lady\", \"Fiddler on the Roof\", \"Man of La Mancha\", and \"Showboat\". In Kansas City, he choreographed for many operas, including \"Samson and Delilah\" for which the dancing got a better review than the singing.\n\nBolender taught throughout his career in New York and as a guest teacher all over the United States as well as in Turkey, Japan, Austria, and Germany. From 1963 to 1966, he was ballet director for the Cologne Opera House and from 1966-69 he filled the same role in Frankfurt. With Janet Reed he was a founding director of Pacific Northwest Ballet in 1975 and for three years starting in 1977 he was ballet director in the Ataturk Opera House.\n\nTodd Bolender’s appointment as Artistic Director in the winter of 1981 opened a new chapter of opportunity for the Kansas City Ballet. Confident that a broader community support for classical ballet might be found, Bolender had a vision to build a company, a repertoire, and a school in the nation's heartland. Bolender did all three and at an age when most people have retired\n\nBolender became Artistic Director Emeritus in 1996 when he retired from Kansas City Ballet and William Whitener took over as Artistic Director. In the fall of 1997, Bolender was invited to New York by the George Balanchine Foundation to officially document for videotape the choreography of the solo that Balanchine created for him in The Four Temperaments. Bolender who created the role of the Fox in the original 1947 production of \"Renard\", resurrected this piece, which had initially vanished for a half century, in 2001 for Kansas City Ballet. Bolender has built a foundation of quality and grand proportion, scarcely imaginable in 1981 and now can enjoy the fruits of his own continuing creativity.\n\nHe was active in the preservation of Balanchine’s work, coaching dancers in his roles in the repertoire for the Balanchine Foundation’s Film Archive and reconstructing \"Renard\" for the Kansas City Ballet in 1998 as part of the Stravinsky Festival. In 2006, Bolender was awarded the Dance Magazine Award for his lifetime achievement in dance.\n\nJust weeks before he was to receive the award, Bolender died on October 12, 2006 at age 92 from complications related to a stroke.\n\nThe Todd Bolender Center for Dance and Creativity opened on August 26, 2011. The building is the new home for the Kansas City Ballet and the Ballet School.\n\nAfter 34 successful years, Kansas City Ballet performed its final Nutcracker featuring choreography by Todd Bolender during the 2014 winter season.\n\n"}
{"id": "1359031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359031", "title": "Training ship", "text": "Training ship\n\nA training ship is a ship used to train students as sailors. The term is especially used for ships employed by navies to train future officers. Essentially there are two types: those used for training at sea and old hulks used to house classrooms.\n\nThe hands-on aspect provided by sail training has also been used as a platform for everything from semesters at sea for undergraduate oceanography and biology students, marine science and physical science for high school students, and character building for at-risk youths.\n\nIn the Sea Cadet Corps all Units use a ship prefix \"T.S.\", followed by the ship's proper name. For example, the Fishguard Sea Cadets' ship's name is T.S. \"Skirmisher\". The T.S. prefix is used as the Sea Cadets is not part of the Royal Navy, and cannot be prefixed \"HMS\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26078194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26078194", "title": "Tripartite Programme", "text": "Tripartite Programme\n\nThe Tripartite programme was created in 1980. It allows French, German, English and Spanish outstanding students to spend two years of their university studies in two partner universities and thus obtain a tricultural scientific, technical and linguistic profile.\n\nAfter a high selection based on technical training, language skills and motivation, selected students gain access to the tripartite programme.\n\nHaving previously studied for three years in their home universities, students continue their studies during two years in two of the four partner universities. Lectures are conducted in the language of the country and final year students must complete a project lasting a minimum of one semester.\n\nStudies are recognized in each partner universities. This programme is sanctioned by a diploma from the university, and the Tripartite certificate signed by the three host universities for the student.\n\nThe tripartite programme includes four European establishments well known for their academic excellence and great reputation: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13398124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13398124", "title": "University of Medicine and Health Sciences", "text": "University of Medicine and Health Sciences\n\nThe University of Medicine and Health Sciences (also known as UMHS) is a for-profit medical school located in Basseterre, Saint Kitts in the Caribbean. UMHS confers upon its graduates the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. The university also has a 5th semester campus in Portland, Maine and an administrative office in New York, New York.\n\nUMHS was founded in 2007 by Dr. Robert Ross, the founder and former owner of Ross University School of Medicine. The university had its inaugural class in May 2008, and held its first graduation in June 2012 at the United Nations building in New York City. UMHS is owned and operated by the Ross family, with Dr. Ross's son Warren acting as President.\n\nThere have been seven rounds of residency matches since the school's inception, with students placing into a variety of specialties across the United States and Canada.\n\nThe MD program at UMHS is a 10 semester course of study that consists of three semesters per calendar year. Semesters 1-4 are basic sciences semesters that are completed at the university's Saint Kitts campus. Semester 5 (Introduction to Clinical Medicine) is completed at the university's campus in Portland, Maine. Semesters 6-10 consist of 78 weeks of clinical clerkships (48 weeks of core rotations, 30 weeks of elective rotations) that are completed at affiliated hospitals in the United States. \n\nUMHS is chartered in Saint Kitts and accredited by the Accreditation Board of Saint Kitts and Nevis, a recognized accrediting agency listed in the FAIMER Directory of Organizations that Recognize/Accredit Medical Schools (DORA). The school's charter was signed on August 24, 2007. UMHS is also listed in the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory (IMED). \n\nUMHS received its 6-year accreditation from the Accreditation Commission on Colleges of Medicine (ACCM) in May of 2015. ACCM is an international accrediting body listed by the National Committee on Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation (NCFMEA), part of the US Department of Education, as “found to use standards to accredit their medical schools that are comparable to the standards used to accredit medical schools in the United States.”\n\nStudent organizations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "8628280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628280", "title": "V Gymnasium", "text": "V Gymnasium\n\nThe Fifth Gymnasium () is a high school in Zagreb, Croatia specialising in science and mathematics. It opened its doors on 7 November 1938. Today it has about 900 students in 28 classes.\n\nStudents have taken part in the International Mathematical Olympiad and the International Chemistry Olympiad, where they have received various medals, and also the International Physics Olympiad.\n"}
{"id": "54316160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54316160", "title": "Webometrics Ranking of Business Schools", "text": "Webometrics Ranking of Business Schools\n\nThe Webometrics Ranking of Business Schools, also known as Ranking Web of Business Schools, is a ranking system for the world's Business Schools based on a composite indicator that takes into account both the volume of the Web contents (number of web pages and files) and the visibility and impact of these web publications according to the number of external inlinks (site citations) they received. The ranking is published by the Cybermetrics Lab, a research group of the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC) located in Madrid.\n\nThis ranking was discontinued in 2013 and is no longer updated.\n\nThis discontinued ranking is however often cited (as at 16/6/2017) by google as its main ranking reference.\n\nExamples are : \"Spain business school ranking \" = \"Zurich business school ranking\" etc.\n\nThe Webometrics Ranking of World Universities is a similar ranking of universities.\n"}
