{"id": "18784709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18784709", "title": "Agreement on a Cease-fire and Separation of Forces", "text": "Agreement on a Cease-fire and Separation of Forces\n\nThe Agreement on a Cease-fire and Separation of Forces was signed by parties to the Georgian-Abkhazian conflict in Moscow on 14 May 1994. Also known as the 1994 Moscow Agreement, it was witnessed by United Nations, Russian Federation and Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe representatives. The agreement was recognised in United Nations Security Council Resolution 934.\n\nGeorgia and Abkhazia agreed to a cease fire and the creation of a security zone clear of heavy weapons separating the parties. A peacekeeping force of the Commonwealth of Independent States would monitor compliance of the agreement, with the assistance of the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1112449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1112449", "title": "Aisso", "text": "Aisso\n\nAyxun or Aissó was a nobleman who led a revolt in Barcelona, Ausona, and Girona in 826 to 827. His identity is uncertain.\n\nAissó is thought to have been either a Goth and former lieutenant of the disposed Count Berà, or an Arab (Ayxun ibn Sulayman ibn Yaqdhan al-Arabí), the son of Sulayman al-Arabi who had been imprisoned in Aachen after being captured by Frankish forces at Girona.\n\nAfter Bernat of Septimania was anointed Count of Barcelona, Aisso joined the revolt against the new count. Only the castle of Roda de Ter, in the county of Ausona, resisted and was destroyed by revolters. Many Goth nobles joined Aissó and Guillemó (or Guillemundus) son of Berà and Count of Rasez and Conflent.\n\nAissó raided the County of Cerdanya and the region of Vallés from his base in the centre of Catalonia. The young Count Bernat requested and received some help from the Emperor, as well as from some local Goth noblemen or \"Hispani\" (826).\n\nFaced with this opposition, Aissó appealed to the sole power that could be compared to the Franks, the Emir of Córdoba. He sent a deputation, led by his brother, to request help from Abd ar-Rahman II. He sent his General, Ubayd Allah (also known as Abu Marwan), who arrived in Zaragoza in May 827. From there, his forces entered the territory of the County of Barcelona, reaching the City of Barcelona later that summer. The City was besieged without success; however, the surroundings were ransacked. The army then moved to Girona, which was attacked on October 10, 827.\n\nWhen Louis I the Pious heard of the Muslim raid, he ordered to his son Pepin I of Aquitaine, and Counts Hugo of Tours and Matfred of Orleans to recruit an army. However, recruitment was slow and, by the time it was formed, Abu Merwan was already returning south. The rebels fled with them in 826. Aissó probably sought refuge in Córdoba, where he was later murdered on the orders of the Emir, who was suspicious of a conspiracy. Guillemó also lived the rest of his life in exile in Córdoba.\n"}
{"id": "12395443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12395443", "title": "Albanian National Army", "text": "Albanian National Army\n\nThe Albanian National Army (ANA; , AKSh), is an Albanian paramilitary organization which operates in the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo. The group opposes the Ohrid Framework Agreement which ended the 2001 insurgency in Macedonia between members of the National Liberation Army and Macedonian security forces.\n\nIt was formed in 2001 in the Republic of Macedonia and, in 2003, the UNMIK declared it a terrorist organization. The organization is associated with FBKSh (National Front for Reunification of Albanians), its political wing.\n\nThe ANA appeared in Kosovo in 2003, where on March 7, two members trying to detonate a bomb were shot and killed by Serbian police. In 2007, a video was aired by Kosovar television stations depicting a band of medium-armed, masked individuals intercepting cars. In October, 2007 the unit declared it would seize the Serb exclave of North Kosovo by force if the Kosovo Protection Force did not occupy it by 1 November 2007. The ANA has claimed that it is patrolling North Kosovo to prevent incursions by the Czar Lazar Guard.\n\nIn early November 2007, insurgents of the \"Political Advisory Body of the Kosovo Liberation Army\" suffered a minor crackdown, dubbed Operation Mountain Storm by the Macedonian armed forces in north-western Macedonia. According to Macedonian authorities; six members of the KLA were killed.\n\nOn 13 November 2007, a video was aired to the public, an exclusive interview with a leader of the ANA patrolling in the covert areas of North Kosovo, recruiting 20 new men. The leader stated that ANA stands at 12,000 men altogether and has called the Kosovar population for a boycott of then-forthcoming elections.\n\nThe ANA had committed an attack on 29 April 2010 on the border between Kosovo and the Republic of Macedonia, in which a Macedonian policeman was killed. In the skirmish, one ANA fighter was injured.\n\nThe group have been removed list of terrorist groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39081124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39081124", "title": "Antisemitic boycotts", "text": "Antisemitic boycotts\n\nAntisemitic boycotts, also known as anti-Jewish boycotts are organized boycotts directed against Jewish people to exclude them economical, political or cultural life. Antisemitic boycotts are often regarded as a manifestation of popular antisemitism.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment brought with it notions of legal equality in Europe that led to Jewish citizens being granted equal rights, first in France, following the French Revolution and then over the course of the Nineteenth Century, across Western Europe. This process was opposed by some extremist Christian religious groups and movements, which could be seen as antisemitic, as they regarded the Jewish people as morally inferior, or felt threatened by their supposed acumen. There were a variety of movements calling for boycotts of Jews and discrimination based round universities (often in the form of Jewish educational quotas and \"Numerus clausus\") was particularly prevalent. In almost every country in Europe, boycotts ultimately led to the revocation of civil rights, murder and systematic extermination.\n\nIn Hungary, agitation for boycotts began in 1875 with an antisemitic speech from Győző Istóczy in the Hungarian House of Representatives. From the 1880s there were calls in some of the Catholic press for Jews to be boycotted. The government passed laws limiting Jewish economic activity from 1938 onwards.\n\nIn Russia, after a series of anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire following the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, towards that end in 1880 they were forbidden from purchasing land or taking mortgages (see the May Laws). Quotas limited Jewish access to educational institutions and from 1892 they were banned from participation in local elections and could constitute no more than 10% of company shareholders.\n\nIn 19th century Austria, Karl Lueger, an antisemitic mayor of Vienna who inspired Hitler, campaigned for a boycott of Jewish businesses as a last resort for his party. Jews were only allowed to live in Vienna from 1840. An organization called the \"Antisemitenbund\" campaigned against Jewish civil rights since 1919. Austrian campaigns tended to heighten around Christmas and became effective from 1932.\n\nIn Ireland, Father John Creagh in Limerick campaigned against the town's small Jewish community in 1904, leading to a boycott of Jewish businesses and the departure of the Jewish population from the town.\n\nIn the Ukraine, there was a boycott of Jews in Galicia, alleging Jewish support for Poland, while Poles in Galicia boycotted Jews for supporting Ukraine. In 1921, the German student union, the \"Deutschen Hochschulring\", barred Jews from membership. Since the bar was racial, it included Jews who had converted to Christianity. The bar was challenged by the government leading to a referendum in which 76% of students voted for the exclusion.\n\nThe Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses in Germany took place on 1 April 1933 as a response to the Jewish boycott of German goods which had started soon after Adolf Hitler was sworn in as Chancellor on 30 January 1933.\n\nIt was the first of many measures against the Jews of Germany, which ultimately culminated in the \"Final Solution\". It was a state-managed campaign of ever-increasing harassment, arrests, systematic pillaging, forced transfer of ownership to Nazi party activists (managed by the Chamber of Commerce), and ultimately murder of owners defined as \"Jews\". In Berlin alone, there were 50,000 Jewish owned businesses. By 1945 they all had Aryan owners.\n\nIn Poland, the Endeks (founded by Roman Dmowski) organized boycotts of Jewish businesses across Poland. Polish universities placed growing limits on the number of Jews allowed to attend, (see numerus clausus) and increasingly forced them to sit separately from non-Jewish students, a practice known as \"Ghetto benches\" which became law in 1937. In 1936 Prime Minister Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski called for \"economic struggle\" and \"economic boycott of the Jews became formal government policy from June 4, 1936\". Kosher slaughter was banned in Poland in 1936, in Germany in 1930 following the similar legislation enacted in many other European countries.\n\nIn Palestine, the Arab leadership organized boycotts of Jewish businesses from 1929 onwards, with violence often directed at Arabs who did business with Jews. The boycotts were publicized through anti-Semitic language and were accompanied by riots that the British authorities described as \"clearly anti-Jewish.\"\n\nIn Quebec, French-Canadian nationalists organized boycotts of Jews in the thirties.\n\nIn the USA, Nazi supporters, such as Father Charles Coughlin (an Irish immigrant), agitated for a boycott of Jewish businesses. Coughlin's radio show attracted tens of millions of listeners and his supporters organized \"Buy Christian\" campaigns and attacked Jews. Ivy League Universities restricted the numbers of Jews allowed admission.\n\nIn the 2000s, the BDS movement, which advocates for a total boycott of Israeli products, was regarded by some Jewish civil rights organizations (such as the Anti-Defamation League and the Simon Wiesenthal Center), as well as pro-Israel organizations and scholars as driven by antisemitism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1735942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1735942", "title": "Anália de Victória Pereira", "text": "Anália de Victória Pereira\n\nAnália Maria Caldeira de Victória Pereira Simeão (3 October 1941 – 7 January 2009) was the leader of the PLD (the \"Partido Liberal Democrático,\" or \"Liberal Democratic Party\") of Angola and the most visible female politician in the country. She co-founded the PLD in 1983 while living in Portugal, and was its president until her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "20944297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20944297", "title": "Basic income in the Netherlands", "text": "Basic income in the Netherlands\n\nThe issue of the basic income gained prominence on the political agenda in Netherlands between the mid-1970s and mid-1990s but it has disappeared from the political agenda over the last fifteen years.\n\nThe political discussion on basic income was initiated in 1975 by Leo Jansen, an MP for the progressive Christian Political Party of Radicals (PPR) and Vrije Universiteit professor J. P. Kuiper. In 1977 the issue had been incorporated in the election manifestos of the PPR. The idea was also endorsed by several smaller trade unions of the Federation of Dutch Labour Unions.\n\nIn 1985, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, an independent think tank of the Dutch government, endorsed a partial basic income. However, the council's proposals were never acted upon. The PPR and the trade unions which favoured the basic income rejected the Council's proposals because the proposed basic income would be too low and implementation would be accompanied by abolition of the minimum wage. The proposal of the Scientific Council broadened, however, the debate and the issue is debated upon in the social-democratic Labour Party, the conservative liberal People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and the progressive liberal Democrats 66, but these parties did not adopt the basic income in their programs. In 1989 the PPR merged into the GreenLeft, with the Pacifist Socialist Party (PSP), the Communist Party of the Netherlands (CPN) and the Evangelical People's Party. In early 1990s the GreenLeft was ambiguous to the idea of a basic income, not endorsing it in its 1989 election manifesto, but debating the issue in several publications.\n\nIn 1992 the debate is re-opened by the Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis, an economic advisory body of the government, which like the Scientific Council endorsed a low basic income as part of simplified social security system. By 1995 the basic income was a prominent issue on the Dutch political agenda. The issue continued to be debated by political parties; the Labour Party debated the issue in its 1994 election manifesto but still rejected it. The GreenLeft, however, endorsed a negative income tax in its 1994 election manifesto, which in the long term could be made into a basic income, according to the party. In 1994 D66 minister Hans Wijers publicly favoured the basic income, leading to negative reactions by his colleagues in cabinet. D66 endorsed his position in 1995, but did not incorporate it in its 1998 election manifesto.\n\nAfter the success of the first cabinet-Kok to implement its agenda of \"work, work, work\" and increase the levels of employment the debate about the basic income lost attention and momentum. A welfare state policy oriented at the activation of the unemployed became accepted by nearly all parties.\n\nIn 2006, Femke Halsema, leader of the GreenLeft, endorsed a partial basic income and her ideas were taken over in the party's 2006 election manifesto.\n\nA prominent Dutch academic in the academic debate on the basic income is Robert Jan van der Veen, who also participated in the September group of Philippe van Parijs.\n\n"}
{"id": "27386765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27386765", "title": "Challenge (1933)", "text": "Challenge (1933)\n\nChallenge was a tabloid-sized monthly newspaper established in Chicago in April 1933 which served as the official organ of the Young People's Socialist League, youth section of the Socialist Party of America. The publication was subsequently renamed The Challenge of Youth and continued in existence through 1946.\n\nThe decision to launch a new official newspaper of the Young People's Socialist League (YPSL) was made at the 1932 National Convention of the YPSL. In April 1933, this publication was launched, a 4-page tabloid called \"The Challenge.\" Throughout its first year, the publication campaigned against the threat of international war, fascism, child labor, and deficiencies in the American education system and lobbied on behalf of efforts to politically organize unemployed workers and to expand the trade union movement.\n\nThe first issue of \"The Challenge\" featured a lengthy masthead, including Arthur G. McDowell as Editor, James Quick, Bob Parker, Jack Jaffe, Aaron Levenstein, and Paul Rasmussen as Associate Editors, Hy Fish as Business Manager, and a Socialist Party all-star list including Norman Thomas, Powers Hapgood, Upton Sinclair, and Oscar Ameringer as \"Contributing Editors.\"\n\nEditor Syd Devin, later quit in order to finish his studies. Devin was replaced by Melos Most, who had previously been a delegate to the Executive Committee meeting of the Socialist Youth International, held in Belgium in 1934. Most was later named as editor of the youth page of the New York weekly, \"The Socialist Call.\"\n\nAfter shutting down for the summer of 1936, \"The Challenge of Youth\" returned in September. It was issued very irregularly, however, with an apologetic notice printed in the 4-page February 1937 issue noting that \"the reason for it not appearing has been financial.\" It was noted that the newspaper received no publication subsidy from the Socialist Party, with all its costs borne by the YPSL organization, which was holding evening festivities in Chicago in an effort to raise funds to insure the publication's survival. Ernest Erber, National Secretary of the YPSL, had taken sole charge of the editorial task.\n\nThe Challenge\n\nEditor: Arthur G. McDowell. Associate Editors: James Quick, Bob Parker, Jack Jaffe, Aaron Levenstein, Paul Rasmussen. Business Manager: Hy Fish. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\nEditor: Arthur G. McDowell. Associate Editors: James Quick, Bob Parker, Jack Jaffe, Aaron Levenstein. Business Manager: Hy Fish. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\n\n\nEditor: Arthur G. McDowell. Associate Editors: James Quick, Bob Parker, Ben Fischer, Aaron Levenstein. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\nEditor: Arthur G. McDowell. Associate Editors: James Quick, Bob Parker, Ben Fischer, Aaron Levenstein. Business Manager: Sid Devin. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\n\n\nEditor: Arthur G. McDowell. Associate Editors: James Quick, Ben Fischer, Aaaron Levenstein. Business Manager: Sid Devin. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\nThe Challenge of Youth\n\nManaging editor: Melos Most. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\n\n\nResponsible Editorial Board: Ernest Erber, Ben Fischer, Hy Fish. Managing Editor: Melos Most. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n\n\n\nResponsible Editorial Board: Ernest Erber, Ben Fischer. Managing Editor: Melos Most. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\nEditor: Ernest Erber. Editorial Office: 549 Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50171807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50171807", "title": "Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity", "text": "Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity\n\nThe President's Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity is a Presidential Commission formed April 13, 2016 to develop a plan for protecting cyberspace, and America's economic reliance on it. The commission released its final report in December 2016. The report made recommendations regarding the intertwining roles of the military, government administration and the private sector in providing cyber security. Chairman Donilon said of the report that its coverage \"is unusual in the breadth of issues\" with which it deals.\n\nThe report made sixteen major recommendations with fifty-three specific action items broadly grouped under six areas:\n\nThe Commission found that strong authentication systems were mandatory for adequate cybersecurity, not just for the government, but for all commercial systems, and private individuals. The commission also stressed remote identity proofing and security for the Internet of things (IoT). Finding that technicians who know cybersecurity and can protect systems are few and in short supply, the commission recommended nationally supported training programs to produce an adequate workforce, as well as increasing the level of expertise in the existing workforce. The Commission highlighted the importance of partnerships between government and the private sector as \"a powerful tool for encouraging the technology, policies and practices we need to secure and grow the digital economy.\" (page 2) \n\nSome criticised the commission's work as lacking an understanding of cybersecurity and not being cognizant of \"cyber reality\" and the cost of some of the action items, but others found the report constructive and meaningful.\n\nThe initial members of the Commission are:\n\nIncoming President Trump has indicated that he wants a full review of U.S. cyber protection policy.\n"}
{"id": "5258887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258887", "title": "Czechoslovak Hockey Riots", "text": "Czechoslovak Hockey Riots\n\nThe Czechoslovak Hockey Riots were a short lived series of protests, mildly violent on occasion (several people were injured), that took place in response to the 1969 World Ice Hockey Championships.\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion into Czechoslovakia the political ideals of the Prague Spring were slowly but steadily replaced by politics of accommodation to the demands of the Soviet Union. People in Czechoslovakia, unable to find other ways to express their opinion, reacted with few very visible but ultimately ineffective manifestations of disagreement.\n\nOn March 21 and 28, 1969, the Czechoslovakia national ice hockey team beat the Soviet team in the 1969 World Ice Hockey Championships in Stockholm. Throughout Czechoslovakia, possibly 500,000 fans crowded the streets of their cities to celebrate the wins. In some places, particularly Prague, the celebrations turned to protests against the Soviet military who continued to occupy the country after the Warsaw Pact invasion the previous August. While the majority of these demonstrations were peaceful, some turned violent as protesters attacked Soviet military units. In Prague, protesters ransacked the Soviet Aeroflot office, though some have suggested they were encouraged by State Security agents.\n\nThe protests were suppressed by the Czechoslovak military and police, now under full control of the hardliners from the Communist Party. The events were used as a pretext to oust the remaining leaders of the Prague Spring. Among them, Alexander Dubček was forced to resign as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, to be replaced by Gustáv Husák who started the politics of \"normalisation\".\n\nNo active protests against the presence of Soviet troops occurred thereafter. During the years of normalization, citizens of Czechoslovakia saw hockey games against Soviet Union as a quiet, symbolic way to protest. Police forces were regularly set on alert but never used.\n"}
{"id": "1255620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255620", "title": "Diarchy", "text": "Diarchy\n\nA diarchy (from Greek , \"di-\", \"double\", and , \"-arkhía\", \"ruled\") or duumvirate (from Latin ', \"the office of the two men\") is a form of government characterized by corule, with two people ruling a polity together either lawfully or \"de facto\", by collusion and force. The leaders of such a system are usually known as corulers.\n\nHistorically, \"diarchy\" particularly referred to the system of shared rule in British India established by the Government of India Acts of 1919 and 1935, which devolved some powers to local councils, which had included native Indian representation under the Indian Councils Act 1892. 'Duumvirate' principally referred to the offices of the various duumviri established by the Roman Republic. Both, along with less common synonyms such as biarchy and tandemocracy, are now used more generally to refer to any system of joint rule or office. A monarchy temporarily controlled by two or more people is, however, usually distinguished as a coregency.\n\nCorule is one of the oldest forms of government. Historical examples include the Pandyan dynasty of Tamilakam, Sparta's joint kingdom, the Roman Republic's consuls, Carthage's Judges, and several ancient Polynesian societies. Systems of inheritance that often led to corule in Germanic and Dacian monarchies may be included as well, as may the dual occupants of the ranks of the Inca Empire. Modern examples of diarchies are Andorra, whose princes are the President of France and the Bishop of Urgell in Spain; San Marino, whose republic is led by two Captains Regent; and Swaziland, where sovereignty rests jointly in the king and his mother.\n\nAndorra is a parliamentary co-principality. Its princes are (\"ex officio\") the French president and the bishop of Urgell in Catalonia, Spain. Since 1962, the French president has been elected by universal suffrage within France. The bishop of the diocese of Urgell is appointed by the Roman Catholic pope.\n\nThe 2008 Constitution affirms Bhutan's commitment to a traditional dual government sharing power between the Druk Gyalpo (\"King\") and the Buddhist religious authorities led by the Je Khenpo. In practice, however, the religious leaders function more as advisors to the kings than as corulers.\n\nUnder the terms of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement intended to end conflict in Northern Ireland, the First Minister and deputy First Minister serve as joint heads of the area's executive. Both positions exercise identical executive powers; however they are not heads of state.\n\nThe captains regent () of San Marino are elected every six months by the Marinese parliament, the Grand and General Council. They serve as heads of state and government and are normally chosen from opposing parties.\n\nThe Kingdom of Swaziland is a diarchy in which the King (Ngwenyama) rules in conjunction with his mother, the Queen Mother (Ndlovukati). In practice, however, most power is vested in the King, though it is often argued that the giving of authority wholesale to the royal male in this way is a neo-traditionalistic as opposed to truly traditional custom.\n\nThe office of king in ancient Sparta was divided between two kings from separate dynasties, each holding a veto over the other's actions.\n\nFollowing the overthrow of the Roman monarchy, the Romans established an oligarchic Roman Republic which divided supreme executive power () between two consuls, both elected each year and each holding a veto over the other's actions.\n\nThe historical duumviri were not rulers but magistrates, performing various judicial, religious, or public functions.\n\nThe Hungarians originally possessed a system of dual kingship, with religious authority vested in the kende and military authority vested in the war-chief (\"\"). When the kende Kurszán was killed a little after the arrival of the Hungarians in Pannonia, his role was usurped by the war-chief Árpád, establishing the Hungarian monarchy.\n\nA paréage was a feudal treaty recognizing the \"equal footing\" () of two sovereigns over a territory. The most famous such arrangement was the 1278 treaty that established modern Andorra. Others include Maastricht, which was shared by the Duke of Brabant and the Prince-Bishopric of Liège. After the establishment of the Dutch Republic, it became a condominium of Liège and the United Provinces, which administered it through the States General of the Netherlands until 1794.\n\nDuring Japan's shogunate, the emperor was notionally a supreme spiritual and temporal lord who delegated authority for joint rule to the \"shōgun\". In practice, the \"shōguns\" power was so complete that they are usually considered \"de facto\" monarchs rather than viceroys or corulers.\n\nBetween 1642 and 1751, political power in Tibet was shared between the 5th, 6th, and 7th Dalai Lamas who headed the realm's Buddhist state religion and various secular rulers known as desis. The growing power of the desis caused the 7th Dalai Lama to abolish the post and replace it with a council known as the Kashag, permitting him to consolidate his authority over the realm. A similar system arose in Bhutan, with the Wangchuck governor (\"penlop\") of Trongsa becoming the Druk Desi and Druk Gyalpo in 1907. In contrast to Tibet, the dynasty eventually consolidated its power and now rules as the kings of Bhutan.\n\nAfter the 1688 Glorious Revolution and the overthrow of James II and VII, his daughter Mary II and nephew William III acted as joint rulers of the Three Kingdoms (England, Scotland and Ireland) until Mary's death in 1694).\n\nThe colonial Province of Canada was usually governed by two joint premiers from 1841 to 1867. Usually, one was chosen from the English-speaking Canada West and the other one from the French-speaking Canada East.\n\nBetween the February Revolution in March 1917 and the October Revolution in November, political power in Russia was divided between the Russian Provisional Government and the Petrograd Soviet, a condition described by Vladimir Lenin as \"Dual Power\". He elaborated the situation into a dual-power doctrine, whereby Communists collaborated with and then supplanted existing bourgeois forms of government.\n\nNamed as the India Secretary for the Lloyd George ministry, Edwin Samuel Montagu made the \"Grand Declaration\" on 20 August 1917 that British policy would henceforth be \"increasing association of Indians in every branch of the administration and the gradual development of self-governing institutions\". Montagu and Viscount Chelmsford, the Governor-General of India, then made an extensive tour of the subcontinent in 1917 and 1918. The Montague–Chelmsford Report's recommendations formed the basis for the Government of India Act of 1919 that established \"diarchy\" in British India. \n\nUnder that act, the executive was to be headed by a governor appointed by the Secretary of State, who could consult the Governor General. The governor was responsible to the Secretary of State for acts of omission and commission. He was to maintain law and order in the province and ensure that the provincial administration worked smoothly. In respect of transferred subjects, he was to be assisted by his ministers whereas reserved subjects were to be administered by the Governor General and his executive council.\n\nThe members of the Executive Council were to be appointed by Secretary of State and were responsible to him in all matters. There were certain matters that he was to administer at his own discretion, in which he was responsible to the Secretary of State. Each councillor was to remain in office for a period of four years. Their salaries and service conditions were not subject to the vote of provincial legislature. All decisions in the council were to be taken by a majority of votes, the Governor being able to break ties.\n\nDuring the establishment of the modern state of Samoa in 1962, power was shared between the two chiefs Malietoa Tanumafili II and Tupua Tamasese Meaʻole. Meaʻole died the next year, after which the country functioned as a monarchy until the death of Tanumafili and a republic thereafter.\n\nOwing to Confucian notions of filial piety, Chinese and Japanese emperors were sometimes able to 'retire' but continue to exert great influence over state policy. In Indonesia, Sukarno and his vice president Mohammad Hatta were nicknamed the Duumvirate (\"\"), with Sukarno setting government policy and rallying support and Hatta managing day-to-day administration. More recently, the great influence of Vladimir Putin over his successor Dmitry Medvedev was considered a duumvirate or tandemocracy until Putin's resumption of the office of president established him as the greater figure.\n\nWithin electoral politics, governments, coalitions and parties may sometimes have two fairly equal leaders, as with:\n\n\nIn addition to actual sharing of political power between religious and military leaders, as occurred in Tibet and Bhutan, the great soft power of a religious leader such as the Pope of the Catholic Church over a devout country can sometimes be described as a form of diarchy or corule.\n\nThe status of monarchs is sometimes impugned by accusations of corule when an advisor, family member, lover, or friend appears to have taken too great a hand in government. Lü Buwei in Chinese history and François Leclerc du Tremblay in France are famous examples of \"éminences grises\" who controlled much of their countries' policies. In British history, George VI's reign was mocked as a \"split-level matriarchy in pants\" owing to the supposed influence of his mother, Queen Mary and his wife Queen Elizabeth.\n\nShared power arrangements within a modern bureaucracy may also be known as a \"diarchy\" or \"duumvirate\". Examples include the joint authority of the Chief of the Defense Force and the Secretary of the Department of Defense over the Australian Defence Organisation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21539058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21539058", "title": "Drone strikes in Pakistan", "text": "Drone strikes in Pakistan\n\nSince 2004, the United States government has attacked thousands of targets in Northwest Pakistan using unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) operated by the United States Air Force under the operational control of the Central Intelligence Agency's Special Activities Division. Most of these attacks are on targets in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas along the Afghan border in Northwest Pakistan.\n\nThese strikes began during the administration of United States President George W. Bush, and increased substantially under his successor Barack Obama. Some in the media have referred to the attacks as a \"drone war\". The George W. Bush administration officially denied the extent of its policy; in May 2013, the Obama administration acknowledged for the first time that four US citizens had been killed in the strikes.\n\nThe US administration and Pakistani authorities have publicly claimed that civilian deaths from the attacks are minimal. Leaked military documents reveal that the vast majority of people killed have not been the intended targets, with approximately 13% of deaths being the intended targets, 81% being other \"militants\", and 6% being civilians. According to a journalist at the Intercept, the source who leaked the documents stated that the 94% militant deaths included some \"military-age males\" only assigned the label of militant because they were in a militant facility at the time and hadn't been specifically proven innocent, though the source offered no actual evidence of this and none of these assertions were confirmed in the documents themselves. Estimates for civilian deaths range from 158 to 965. Amnesty International found that a number of victims were unarmed and that some strikes could amount to war crimes.\n\nIn December 2013, the National Assembly of Pakistan unanimously approved a resolution against US drone strikes in Pakistan, calling them a violation of \"the charter of the United Nations, international laws and humanitarian norms.\" Pakistan's former Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, had repeatedly demanded an end to the strikes, stating: \"The use of drones is not only a continual violation of our territorial integrity but also detrimental to our resolve and efforts at eliminating terrorism from our country\". The Peshawar High Court has ruled that the attacks are illegal, inhumane, violate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and constitute a war crime. The Obama administration disagreed, contending that the attacks did not violate international law and that the method of attack was precise and effective.\n\nThe operations in Pakistan are closely tied to a related drone campaign in Afghanistan, along the same border area. These strikes have killed 3,363-4,467 militants and 150-313 civilians. Among the militant deaths are hundreds of high-level leaders of the Afghan Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban, the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda, the Haqqani Network, and other organizations, with 70 Taliban leaders killed in one ten-day period of May 2017 alone.\n\nPakistan's government publicly condemns these attacks. However, it also allegedly allowed the drones to operate from Shamsi Airfield in Pakistan until 21 April 2011. According to secret diplomatic cables leaked by WikiLeaks, Pakistan's Army Chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani not only tacitly agreed to the drone flights, but in 2008 requested that Americans increase them. However, Pakistan's Interior Minister Rehman Malik said, \"drone missiles cause collateral damage. A few militants are killed, but the majority of victims are innocent citizens.\" The strikes are often linked to anti-American sentiment in Pakistan and the growing questionability of the scope and extent of CIA activities in Pakistan.\n\nReports of the number of militant versus civilian casualties differ. In general, the CIA and other American agencies have claimed a high rate of militant killings, relying in part on a disputed estimation method that \"counts all military-age males in a strike zone as combatants ( ...) unless there is explicit intelligence posthumously proving them innocent\". For instance, the CIA has claimed that strikes conducted between May 2010 and August 2011 killed over 600 militants without any civilian fatalities, a claim that many have disputed. The New America Foundation has estimated that 80 percent of those killed in the attacks were militants. On the other hand, several experts have stated that in reality, far fewer militants and many more civilians have been killed. In a 2009 opinion article, Daniel L. Byman of the Brookings Institution wrote that drone strikes may have killed \"10 or so civilians\" for every militant that they killed. The Pakistani military has stated that most of those killed were Al-Qaeda and Taliban militants. The Bureau of Investigative Journalism found that 423 to 965 civilians were killed out of a total of 2,497 to 3,999 including 172 to 207 children. The Bureau also claimed that since Obama took office at least 50 civilians were killed in follow-up strikes when they had gone to help victims and more than 20 civilians have also been attacked in strikes on funerals and mourners, a practice condemned by legal experts.\n\nBarbara Elias-Sanborn has also claimed that, \"as much of the literature on drones suggests, such killings usually harden militants' determination to fight, stalling any potential negotiations and settlement.\" However, analysis by the RAND Corporation suggests that \"drone strikes are associated with decreases in the incidence and lethality of terrorist attacks\" in Pakistan.\n\nA motive that the 2010 Times Square car bomber Faisal Shahzad stated was the repeated CIA drone attacks in Pakistan, his native country.\n\nDrone strikes were halted in November 2011 after NATO forces killed 24 Pakistani soldiers in the Salala incident. Shamsi Airfield was evacuated of Americans and taken over by the Pakistanis December 2011. The incident prompted an approximately two-month stop to the drone strikes, which resumed on 10 January 2012.\n\nIn March 2013, Ben Emmerson, the United Nations Special Rapporteur, led a U.N. team that looked into civilian casualties from the U.S. drone attacks, and stated that the attacks are a violation of the sovereignty of Pakistan. Emmerson said government officials from the country clearly stated Pakistan does not agree to the drone attacks, which is contradicted by U.S. officials. In October 2013, Amnesty International brought out a detailed study of the impact of drone strikes that strongly condemned the strikes. The report stated that the number of arbitrary civilian deaths, the tactics used (such as follow-up attacks targeting individuals helping the wounded) and the violation of Pakistani sovereignty meant that some of the strikes could be considered as unlawful executions and war crimes.\n\nIn May 2014, the targeted killing program was described as \"basically over,\" with no attack having occurred since December 2013. The lull in attacks coincided with a new Obama Administration policy requiring a \"near certainty\" that civilians would not be harmed, a reduced US military and CIA presence in Afghanistan, a reduced al-Qaida presence in Pakistan, and an increased military role (at the expense of the CIA) in the execution of drone strikes.\n\nThe Bureau of Investigative Journalism estimates the following cumulative statistics about U.S. drone strikes (as of 17 September 2017):\n\nA formerly classified Pakistani government report obtained in July 2013 by the BIJ shows details of 75 drone strikes that occurred between 2006–09. According to the 12-page report, in this period, 176 of the 746 reported dead were civilians. According to the Long War Journal, the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, and the New America Foundation, 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 had some of the highest civilian casualty ratios of any years.\n\nU.S. President George W. Bush vastly accelerated the drone strikes during the final year of his presidency. A list of the high-ranking victims of the drones was provided to Pakistan in 2009. Bush's successor, President Obama, broadened attacks to include targets against groups considered to be seeking to destabilize Pakistani civilian government; the attacks of 14 and 16 February 2009 were against training camps run by Baitullah Mehsud. On 25 February 2009 Leon Panetta, the director of the CIA, indicated the strikes will continue. On 4 March 2009 \"The Washington Times\" reported that the drones were targeting Baitullah Mehsud. Obama was reported in March 2009 as considering expanding these strikes to include Balochistan.\n\nThe US government cited the inability of states to control and keep track of terrorist activities as a characteristic of a failed state, represented by the lack of military and governmental control in Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and was operating within the states' right of self-defense according to Article 51 in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. In President Obama's 2013 speech at the National Defense University, he stated \"we act against terrorists who pose a continuing and imminent threat to the American people, and when there are no other governments capable of effectively addressing the threat\".\n\nOn 25 March 2010 US State Department legal advisor Harold Koh stated that the drone strikes were legal because of the right to self-defense. According to Koh, the US is involved in an armed conflict with al Qaeda, the Taliban, and their affiliates and therefore may use force consistent with self-defense under international law.\n\nFormer CIA officials state that the agency uses a careful screening process in making decisions on which individuals to kill via drone strikes. The process, carried out at the agency's counterterrorist center, involves up to 10 lawyers who write briefs justifying the targeting of specific individuals. According to the former officials, if a brief's argument is weak, the request to target the individual is denied. Since 2008 the CIA has relied less on its list of individuals and increasingly targeted \"signatures,\" or suspect behavior. This change in tactics has resulted in fewer deaths of high-value targets and in more deaths of lower-level fighters, or \"mere foot soldiers\" as the one senior Pakistani official told \"The Washington Post\". Signature strikes there must be supported by two sources of corroborating intelligence. Sources of intelligence include information from a communication intercept, a sighting of militant training camps or intelligence from CIA assets on the ground. \"Signature targeting\" has been the source of controversy. Drone critics argue that regular citizen behaviors can easily be mistaken for militant signatures.\n\nUS officials stated in March 2009 that the Predator strikes had killed nine of al Qaeda's 20 top commanders. The officials added that many top Taliban and al Qaeda leaders, as a result of the strikes, had fled to Quetta or even further to Karachi.\n\nSome US politicians and academics have condemned the drone strikes. US Congressman Dennis Kucinich asserted that the United States was violating international law by carrying out strikes against a country that never attacked the United States. Georgetown University professor Gary D. Solis asserts that since the drone operators at the CIA are civilians directly engaged in armed conflict, this makes them \"unlawful combatants\" and possibly subject to prosecution.\n\nUS military reports asserted that al Qaeda is being slowly but systematically routed because of these attacks, and that they have served to sow the seeds of uncertainty and discord among their ranks. They also claimed that the drone attacks have addled and confused the Taliban, and have led them to turn against each other. In July 2009 it was reported that (according to US officials) Osama Bin Laden's son Saad bin Laden was believed to have been killed in a drone attack earlier in the year.\n\nDuring a protest against drone attacks, in an event sponsored by Nevada Desert Experience, Father Louie Vitale, Kathy Kelly, Stephen Kelly (SJ), Eve Tetaz, John Dear, and others were arrested outside Creech Air Force Base on Wednesday 9 April 2009.\n\nIn May 2009 it was reported that the US was sharing drone intelligence with Pakistan. Leon Panetta reiterated on 19 May 2009 that the US intended to continue the drone attacks.\n\nIn December 2009 expansion of the drone attacks was authorized by Barack Obama to parallel the decision to send 30,000 more American troops to Afghanistan. Senior US officials are reportedly pushing for extending the strikes into Quetta in Balochistan against the Quetta Shura. Speaking at a news conference in Islamabad on 7 January 2010 Senators John McCain and Joe Lieberman stated the drone attacks were effective and would continue but stated that US would make greater efforts to prevent collateral damage. In an effort to strengthen trust with Pakistan \"US sharing drone surveillance data with Pakistan\", said Mike Mullen.\nUS defence budget for 2011 asked for a 75% increase in funds to enhance the drone operations.\n\nThe Associated Press (AP) noted that Barack Obama apparently expanded the scope and increased the aggressiveness of the drone campaign against militants in Pakistan after taking office. According to the news agency, the US increased strikes against the Pakistani Taliban, which earned favor from the Pakistani government, resulting in increased cooperation from Pakistani intelligence services. Also, the Obama administration toned down the US government's public rhetoric against Islamic terrorism, garnering better cooperation from other Islamic governments. Furthermore, with the drawdown of the war in Iraq, more drones, support personnel, and intelligence assets became available for the campaigns in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Since Obama took office, according to the AP, the number of drones operated by the CIA over Afghanistan and Pakistan doubled.\n\nAccording to some current and former counterterrorism officials, the Obama administration's increase in the use of drone strikes is an unintended consequence of the president's executive orders banning secret CIA detention centers and his attempt to close the Guantanamo Bay prison camp, and capturing prisoners has become a \"less viable option\". Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia alleged that, \"Their policy is to take out high-value targets, versus capturing high-value targets ( ...) They are not going to advertise that, but that's what they are doing.\" Obama's aides argued that it is often impossible to capture targets in the tribal areas of Pakistan and Yemen, and that other targets are in foreign custody thanks to American tips. Obama's counter-terrorism adviser, John O. Brennan, said that, \"The purpose of these actions is to mitigate threats to U.S. persons' lives\", and continued, \"It is the option of last recourse. So the president, and I think all of us here, don't like the fact that people have to die. And so he wants to make sure that we go through a rigorous checklist: The infeasibility of capture, the certainty of the intelligence base, the imminence of the threat, all of these things.\" In response to the concerns about the number of killings, Jeh C. Johnson stated, \"We have to be vigilant to avoid a no-quarter, or take-no-prisoners policy.\"\n\nA study called \"The Year of the Drone\" published in February 2010 by the New America Foundation found that from a total of 114 drone strikes in Pakistan between 2004 and early 2010, between 834 and 1,216 individuals had been killed. About two thirds of these were thought to be militants and one third were civilians.\n\nOn 28 April 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama appointed General David Petraeus as director of the CIA overseeing the drone attacks. According to Pakistani and American officials this could further inflame relations between the two nations.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", as of September 2011, around 30 Predator and Reaper drones were operating under CIA direction in the Afghanistan/Pakistan area of operations. The drones are flown by United States Air Force pilots located at an unnamed base in the United States. US Department of Defense armed drones, which also sometimes take part in strikes on terrorist targets, are flown by US Air Force pilots located at Creech Air Force Base and Holloman Air Force Base. The CIA drones are operated by an office called the Pakistan-Afghanistan Department, which operates under the CIA's Counterterrorism Center (CTC), based at CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virginia. As of September 2011, the CTC had about 2,000 people on staff.\n\nUS President Obama affirmed on 30 January 2012 that the US was conducting drone strikes in Pakistan. He stressed that civilian casualties in the strikes were low. In a February 2012 poll of 1,000 US adults, 83% of them (77% of the liberal Democrats) replied they support the drone strikes. The Obama administration offered its first extensive explanation on drone-strike policy in April 2012, concluding that it was \"legal, ethical and wise\". The CIA's general counsel, Stephen Preston, in a speech entitled \"CIA and the Rule of Law\" at Harvard Law School on 10 April 2012, claimed the agency was not bound by the laws of war; in response, Human Rights Watch called for the strike program to be brought under the control of the US military. In May, the US began stepping up drone attacks after talks at the NATO summit in Chicago did not lead to the progress it desired regarding Pakistan's continued closure of its Afghan borders to the alliance's supply convoys.\nIn 2013, the sustained and growing criticism of his drone policy forced Obama to announce stricter conditions on executing drone strikes abroad, including an unspoken plan to partly shift the program from the CIA to the ostensibly more accountable Pentagon, In anticipation of his speech, Obama instructed Attorney General Eric Holder to divulge that four U.S. citizens had been killed by drones since 2009, and that only one of those men had been intentionally targeted. Following Obama's announcement, the United Nations' drone investigator, British lawyer Ben Emmerson, made clear his expectation of a \"significant reduction\" in the number of strikes over the 18 months to follow, although the period immediately after Obama's speech was \"business as usual\". Six months later, the CIA was still carrying out the \"vast majority\" of drone strikes. However, no attack has occurred since December 2013, and the drone war was described as \"basically over\" in May 2014.\n\nAt Senator Dianne Feinstein's insistence, beginning in early 2010 staffs of the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence have begun reviewing each CIA drone strike. The staff members hold monthly meetings with CIA personnel involved with the drone campaign, review videos of each strike, and attempt to confirm that the strike was executed properly.\n\nOne of the leading critics of drones in the US Congress is Senator Rand Paul. In 2013, he performed a thirteen-hour filibuster to try to achieve a public admission from U.S. President Obama that he could not kill an American citizen with a drone on American soil, who was not actively engaged in combat. Attorney General Eric Holder responded soon after, confirming that the president had no authority to use drones for this purpose.\n\nEric M. Blanchard, assistant professor of Political Science at Columbia University, notes that, \"the use of drones reflects several on-going historical military developments that, in turn, reflect the culture and values of American society.\" In this, he alludes to technological idealism (the pursuit of a \"decisive\" technology to end war) and the need to seize the moral high ground, by delivering more \"humane\" approaches to warfare. Military support for the drones remains strong for a host of reasons: expansion of battlespace, extension of an individual soldiers capabilities, and a reduction of American casualties. Support has also been noted across the political spectrum as focus in the Middle East shifted from stabilization in Afghanistan to antiterrorist strikes aimed at al-Qaeda leadership in Pakistan.\n\nBlanchard also points to a shift in how gender is viewed in terms of warfare with the advent of technology in place of human soldiers. Fighters often represent an idealized masculinity, portraying strength, bravery, and chivalry, but during the Gulf War of 1990–91 the focus had changed. The computer programmers, missile technologists, high-tech pilots, and other servicemen who were centred around technology were now the focal point of news coverage, removing the warrior-soldier from the conversation.\n\nFor at least some of the initial drone strikes, in 2004 and 2005, the US operated with the approval of Pakistan's ISI. Former Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf told \"The New Yorker\" in 2014 that he allowed the CIA to fly drones within Pakistan and that in exchange the US supplied helicopters and night-vision equipment to the Pakistanis. Musharraf wanted the drones to operate under Pakistani control, but the US wouldn't allow it.\n\nPakistan has repeatedly protested these attacks as an infringement of its sovereignty and because civilian deaths have also resulted, including women and children, which has further angered the Pakistani government and people. General David Petraeus was told in November 2008 that these strikes were unhelpful. However, on 4 October 2008 \"The Washington Post\" reported that there was a secret deal between the US and Pakistan allowing these drone attacks. US Senator Dianne Feinstein said in February 2009: \"As I understand it, these are flown out of a Pakistani base.\" Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi denied that this was true.\n\nOn 8 September 2008, a spokesman for the Pakistani army condemned Washington's killing of Pakistani civilians and warned of retaliatory action: \"Border violations by US-led forces in Afghanistan, which have killed scores of Pakistani civilians, would no longer be tolerated, and we have informed them that we reserve the right to self defense and that we will retaliate if the US continues cross-border attacks.\"\n\nThe drone attacks continue, despite repeated requests made by ex-Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari through different channels. Baitullah Mehsud, while claiming responsibility for the 2009 Lahore police academy attacks, stated that it was in retaliation for the drone attacks. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", Pakistani intelligence has agreed to secretly provide information to the United States on Mehsud's and his militants' whereabouts while publicly the Pakistani government will continue to condemn the attacks.\n\nOn 28 April 2009 Pakistan's consul general to the US, Aqil Nadeem, asked the US to hand over control of its drones in Pakistan to his government. \"Do we want to lose the war on terror or do we want to keep those weapons classified? If the American government insists on our true cooperation, then they should also be helping us in fighting those terrorists\", said Said Nadeem. Pakistan President Zardari has also requested that Pakistan be given control over the drones, but this has been rejected by the US who are worried that Pakistanis will leak information about targets to militants. In December 2009 Pakistan's Defence minister Ahmad Mukhtar acknowledged that Americans were using Shamsi Airfield but stated that Pakistan was not satisfied with payments for using the facility.\n\nIn December 2010 the CIA's Station Chief in Islamabad operating under the alias Jonathan Banks was hastily pulled from the country. Lawsuits filed by families of victims of drone strikes had named Banks as a defendant, he had been receiving death threats, and a Pakistani journalist whose brother and son died in a drone strike called for prosecuting Banks for murder.\n\nIn March 2011 the General Officer Commanding of 7th division of Pakistani Army, Major General Ghayur Mehmood delivered a briefing \"Myths and rumours about US predator strikes\" in Miramshah. He said that most of those who were killed by the drone strikes were Al-qaeda and Taliban terrorists. Military's official paper on the attacks till 7 March 2011 said that between 2007 and 2011 about 164 predator strikes had been carried out and over 964 terrorists had been killed. Those killed included 793 locals and 171 foreigners. The foreigners included Arabs, Uzbeks, Tajiks, Chechens, Filipinos and Moroccans.\n\nOn 9 December 2011, Pakistan's Army Chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani issued a directive to shoot down US drones. A senior Pakistani military official said, \"Any object entering into our air space, including U.S. drones, will be treated as hostile and be shot down.\"\n\nThe daily Indian newspaper The Hindu reported that Pakistan reached a secret agreement with United States to readmit the attacks of guided airplanes on its soil. According to a high western official linked with the negotiations, the pact was signed by ISI chief Lieutenant General Shuja Ahmad Pasha, and the director of the Central Intelligence Agency general David Petraeus during a meeting in Qatar January 2012. According to The Hindu, Lieutenant General Pasha also agreed to enlarge the CIA presence in Shahbaz air base, near the city of Abbottabad, where Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden was killed in May 2011.\n\nAccording to unnamed US government officials, beginning in early 2011 the US would fax notifications to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency (ISI) detailing the dates and general areas of future drone attack operations. The ISI would send a return fax acknowledging receipt, but not approving the operation. Nevertheless, it appeared that Pakistan would clear the airspace over the area and on the dates designated in the US fax. After the May 2011 raid that killed bin Laden, the ISI ceased acknowledging the US faxes, but Pakistani authorities have appeared to continue clearing the airspace in the areas where US drones are operating. According to an unnamed Pakistani government official, the Pakistan government believes that the US sends the faxes primarily to support legal justification for the drone attacks.\n\nIn May 2013, a Pakistani court ruled that CIA drone strikes in Pakistan were illegal. A Peshawar High Court judge said the Pakistani government must end drone strikes, using force if needed. Also at that time, an International Crisis Group report concluded that drone strikes were an \"ineffective\" way of combating militants in Pakistan. A week later, the Pakistani Taliban withdrew an offer of peace talks after a drone strike killed their deputy leader. The Pakistani Taliban's threat to \"teach a lesson\" to the US and Pakistan, after the aggressive American rejection of peace talks, resulted in the shooting of 10 foreign mountain climbers, as well as a mis-targeted bomb killing fourteen civilians, including four children, instead of security forces in Peshawar at the end of June 2013. In early June, it was reported that the CIA did not even know who it was killing in some drone strikes. A few days later, the freshly elected Pakistani Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, called for an end to drone strikes in his country. Not long after, a US strike killed another nine people, an act that prompted Sharif to summon the US chargé d'affaires in protest and to demand, again, an \"immediate halt\" to the Anglo-American drone program. At the beginning of July 2013 — as a drone strike killed another 17 people in Waziristan — the findings of a Center for Naval Analyses study, based on classified US military documents, were reported: American drones strikes were 10 times more likely to cause innocent casualties than bombs or missiles launched from planes.\n\nIn July 2013, it was reported that the US had drastically scaled back drone attacks in order to appease the Pakistani military, which was under growing pressure to move to end American \"airspace violations\". The CIA was instructed to be more \"cautious\" and limit the drone strikes to high-value targets, to cut down on so-called signature strikes (attacks that target a group of militants based purely on their behavior). Pakistani military officials had earlier stated that these drone attacks cannot continue at the tempo they are going at, and that civilian casualties in these strikes are spawning more militants.\n\nOn 1 November 2013, the US killed Hakimullah Mehsud. The expressions of anger in Pakistan about the continuance of drone strikes peaked again at the end of November as a political party announced publicly the alleged name of the CIA's station chief in Islamabad, and called for them and CIA director John Brennan to be tried for murder.\n\nAfter a six-month break, June 2014 saw a drone strike kill 13 people; the attack was again condemned by Pakistan as a violation of its sovereignty. A month later, in July 2014, a similar attack which killed six militants was again criticized by the Pakistani government, particularly as it had just launched an offensive against militants in the area where the strike occurred.\n\nOn 16 July 2014, Pakistan conducted a drone attack in North Waziristan killing militants.\n\nThe British newspaper \"The Times\" stated on 18 February 2009 that the CIA was using Pakistan's Shamsi Airfield, southwest of Quetta and from the Afghan border, as its base for drone operations. Safar Khan, a journalist based in the area near Shamsi, told the \"Times\", \"We can see the planes flying from the base. The area around the base is a high-security zone and no one is allowed there.\"\n\nTop US officials confirmed to Fox News Channel that Shamsi Airfield had been used by the CIA to launch the drones since 2002.\n\nMessages recovered from Osama bin Laden's home after his death in 2011, including one from then al Qaeda No. 3, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman reportedly, according to the Agence France-Presse and \"The Washington Post\", expressed frustration with the drone strikes in Pakistan. According to an unnamed U.S. government official, in his message al-Rahman complained that drone-launched missiles were killing al Qaeda operatives faster than they could be replaced.\n\nIn June and July 2011, law enforcement authorities found messages on al Qaeda-linked websites calling for attacks against executives of drone aircraft manufacturer AeroVironment. Law enforcement believed that the messages were in response to calls for action against Americans by Adam Yahiye Gadahn.\n\nOn 3 June 2009, the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) delivered a report sharply critical of US tactics. The report asserted that the US government has failed to keep track of civilian casualties of its military operations, including the drone attacks, and to provide means for citizens of affected nations to obtain information about the casualties and any legal inquests regarding them. Any such information held by the U.S. military is allegedly inaccessible to the public due to the high level of secrecy surrounding the drone attacks program. The US representative at UNHRC has argued that the UN investigator for extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions does not have jurisdiction over US military actions, while another US diplomat claimed that the US military is investigating any wrongdoing and doing all it can to furnish information about the deaths.\n\nOn 27 October 2009 UNHRC investigator Philip Alston called on the US to demonstrate that it was not randomly killing people in violation of international law through its use of drones on the Afghan border. Alston criticized the US's refusal to respond to date to the UN's concerns. Said Alston, \"Otherwise you have the really problematic bottom line, which is that the Central Intelligence Agency is running a program that is killing significant numbers of people and there is absolutely no accountability in terms of the relevant international laws.\"\n\nOn 2 June 2010 Alston's team released a report on its investigation into the drone strikes, criticizing the United States for being \"the most prolific user of targeted killings\" in the world. Alston, however, acknowledged that the drone attacks may be justified under the right to self-defense. He called on the US to be more open about the program. Alston's report was submitted to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights the following day.\n\nOn 7 June 2012, after a four-day visit to Pakistan, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay called for a new investigation into US drone strikes in Pakistan, repeatedly referring to the attacks as \"indiscriminate,\" and said that the attacks constitute human rights violations. In a report issued on 18 June 2012, Christof Heyns, U.N. special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, called on the Obama administration to justify its use of targeted assassinations rather than attempting to capture al Qaeda or Taliban suspects.\n\nAccording to a report by researchers at Stanford and New York University law schools in 2012, civilians in Waziristan interviewed for the report believed \"that the US actively seeks to kill them simply for being Muslims, viewing the drone campaign as a part of a religious crusade against Islam.\" Many professionals working in Waziristan believe that drone strikes encourage terrorism. The report notes similar conclusions reached by reporters for \"Der Spiegel\", \"The New York Times\" and CNN.\n\nAccording to ongoing surveys of public opinion conducted by the New America Foundation, 9 out of 10 of civilians in Waziristan \"oppose the U.S. military pursuing al-Qaeda and the Taliban\" and nearly 70% \"want the Pakistani military alone to fight Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in the tribal areas.\"\n\nAccording to a public opinion survey conducted between November 2008 and January 2009 by the Pakistani Aryana Institute for Regional Research and Advocacy, approximately half of the respondents considered drone strikes in Federally Administered Tribal Areas accurate and approximately the same number of respondents said that the strikes did not lead to anti-American sentiment and were effective in damaging the militants. The researchers concluded that \"the popular notion outside the Pakhtun belt that a large majority of the local population supports the Taliban movement lacks substance.\" According to Farhat Taj a member of AIRRA the drones have never killed any civilians. Some people in Waziristan compare the drones to Ababils, the holy swallows sent by Allah to avenge Abraha, the invader of the Khana Kaaba. Irfan Husain, writing in \"Dawn\", agreed called for more drone attacks: \"We need to wake up to the reality that the enemy has grown very strong in the years we temporized and tried to do deals with them. Clearly, we need allies in this fight. Howling at the moon is not going to get us the cooperation we so desperately need. A solid case can be made for more drone attacks, not less.\" In October 2013, the Economist found support among locals for the drone attacks as protection against the militants, claiming no civilians were killed this year.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" has reported that in North Waziristan a militant group called Khorasan Mujahedin targets people suspected of being informants. According to the report, the group kidnaps people from an area suspected of selling information that led to the strike, tortures and usually kills them, and sells videotapes of killings in street markets as warnings to others.\n\nImran Khan, chairman Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf political party in Pakistan, announced a Peace March to South Waziristan on 6–7 October 2012 to create global awareness about innocent civilian deaths in US drone attacks. He proposed to take a rally of 100,000 people from Islamabad to South Waziristan. The South Waziristan administration denied the group permission for the rally on the grounds that they can not provide security, but PTI has maintained that they will go ahead with the Peace March. Many International human rights activists and NGOs have shown their support to the Peace March, with former US colonel Ann Wright and British NGO Reprieve joining the Peace March. Pakistani Taliban have agreed to not attack the Peace rally and offered to provide security for the rally.\n\nA 2014 study in \"Political Science Quarterly\" and a 2015 study in the \"Journal of Strategic Studies\" disputes that drone strikes are a major source of anger for Pakistanis.\n\nAccording to unnamed counterterrorism officials, in 2009 or 2010 CIA drones began employing smaller missiles in airstrikes in Pakistan in order to reduce civilian casualties. The new missiles, called the Small Smart Weapon or Scorpion, are reportedly about the size of a violin case (21 inches long) and weigh 16 kg. The missiles are used in combination with new technology intended to increase accuracy and expand surveillance, including the use of small, unarmed surveillance drones to exactly pinpoint the location of targets. These \"micro-UAVs\" (unmanned aerial vehicles) can be roughly the size of a pizza platter and meant to monitor potential targets at close range, for hours or days at a time. One former U.S. official who worked with micro-UAVs said that they can be almost impossible to detect at night. \"It can be outside your window and you won't hear a whisper,\" the official said. The drone operators also have changed to trying to target insurgents in vehicles rather than residences to reduce the chances of civilian casualties.\n\nThe New York Times reported in 2013 that the Obama Administration embraced a disputed method for counting civilian casualties, which in effect counts all military-age males in a strike zone as combatants, giving partial explanation to the official claims of extraordinarily low collateral deaths.\n\nA January 2011 report by \"Bloomberg\" stated that civilian casualties in the strikes had apparently decreased. According to the report, the U.S. government believed that 1,300 militants and only 30 civilians had been killed in drone strikes since mid-2008, with no civilians killed since August 2010.\n\nOn 14 July 2009, Daniel L. Byman of the Brookings Institution stated that although accurate data on the results of drone strikes is difficult to obtain, it seemed that ten civilians had died in the drone attacks for every militant killed. Byman argues that civilian killings constitute a humanitarian tragedy and create dangerous political problems, including damage to the legitimacy of the Pakistani government and alienation of the Pakistani populace from America. He suggested that the real answer to halting al-Qaeda's activity in Pakistan will be long-term support of Pakistan's counterinsurgency efforts.\n\nUnited States officials claim that interviews with locals do not provide accurate numbers of civilian casualties because relatives or acquaintances of the dead refuse to state that the victims were involved in militant activities.\n\nThe CIA reportedly passed up three chances to kill militant leaders, including Sirajuddin Haqqani, with drone missiles in 2010 because women and children were nearby. The New America Foundation believes that between zero and 18 civilians have been killed in drone strikes since 23 August 2010 and that overall civilian casualties have decreased from 25% of the total in prior years to an estimated of 6% in 2010. The Foundation estimates that between 277 and 435 non-combatants have died since 2004, out of 1,374 to 2,189 total deaths.\n\nAccording to a report of the Islamabad-based Conflict Monitoring Center (CMC), as of 2011 more than 2000 persons have been killed, and most of those deaths were civilians. The CMC termed the CIA drone strikes as an \"assassination campaign turning out to be revenge campaign\", and showed that 2010 was the deadliest year so far regarding casualties resulting from drone attacks, with 134 strikes inflicting over 900 deaths.\n\nAccording to the \"Long War Journal\", as of mid-2011, the drone strikes in Pakistan since 2006 had killed 2,018 militants and 138 civilians. The New America Foundation stated in mid-2011 that from 2004 to 2011, 80% of the 2,551 people killed in the strikes were militants. The Foundation stated that 95% of those killed in 2010 were militants and that, as of 2012, 15% of the total people killed by drone strikes were either civilians or unknown. The foundation also states that in 2012 the rate of civilian and unknown casualties was 2 percent, whereas the Bureau of Investigative Journalism say the rate of civilian casualties for 2012 is 9 percent.\n\nThe Bureau of Investigative Journalism, based on extensive research in mid-2011, claims that at least 385 civilians were among the dead, including more than 160 children.\n\nThe CIA has claimed that the strikes conducted between May 2010 and August 2011 killed over 600 militants and did not result in any civilian fatalities; this assessment has been criticized by Bill Roggio from the \"Long War Journal\" and other commentators as being unrealistic. Unnamed American officials who spoke to \"The New York Times\" claimed that, as of August 2011, the drone campaign had killed over 2,000 militants and approximately 50 non-combatants.\n\nAn independent research site \"Pakistan Body Count\" run by Dr. Zeeshan-ul-hassan, a Fulbright scholar keeping track of all the drone attacks, claims that 2179 civilians were among the dead, and 12.4% children and women. A report by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, released 4 February 2012, stated that under the Obama administration (2008–2011) drone strikes killed between 282 and 535 civilians, including 60 children.\n\nThe British human rights group Reprieve filed a case with the United Nations Human Rights Council, based on affidavits by 18 family members of civilians killed in the attacks – many of them children. They are calling on the UNHRC \"to condemn the attacks as illegal human rights violations.\"\n\nA February 2012 Associated Press investigation found that militants were the main victims of drone strikes in North Waziristan contrary to the \"widespread perception in Pakistan that civilians ( ...) are the principal victims.\" The AP studied 10 drone strikes. Their reporters spoke to about 80 villagers in North Waziristan, and were told that at least 194 people died in the ten attacks. According to the villagers 56 of those were either civilians or tribal police and 138 were militants. Thirty-eight of the civilians died in a single attack on 17 March 2011. Villagers stated that one way to tell if civilians were killed was to observe how many funerals took place after a strike; the bodies of militants were usually taken elsewhere for burial, while civilians were usually buried immediately and locally.\n\nA September 2012 report by researchers from Stanford University and New York University criticized the drone campaign, stating that it was killing a high number of civilians and turning the Pakistani public against the United States. The report, compiled by interviewing witnesses, drone-attack survivors, and others in Pakistan provided by a Pakistani human rights organization, Foundation for Fundamental Rights, concluded that only 2% of drone strike victims are \"high-level\" militant leaders. The report's authors did not estimate the numbers of total civilian casualties, but suggested that the February 2012 Bureau of Investigative Journalism report was more accurate than the \"Long War Journal\" report (both detailed above) on civilian casualties. The report also opined that the drone attacks were violations of international law, because the US government had not shown that the targets were direct threats to the US. The report further noted the US policy of considering all military-age males in a strike zone as militants following the air strike unless exonerating evidence proves otherwise. Media outlets were also urged to cease using the term \"militant\" when reporting on drone attacks without further explanation.\n\nIn an interview in October 2013, one former drone operator described events suggesting that child casualties may go unrecognized in some mission assessments. A week later, Pakistan's Ministry of Defense stated that 67 civilians had been among the 2,227 people killed in 317 drone strikes since 2008. The Ministry said that the remainder of those killed were Islamic militants. Research published by Reprieve in 2014 suggested that U.S. drone strikes in Yemen and Pakistan have had an unknown person to target casualty ratio of 28:1 with one attack in the study having a ratio of 128:1 with 13 children being killed.\n\nUS hostage Warren Weinstein and Italian hostage Giovanni Lo Porto were killed in a January 2015 US-led drone strike on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, as announced by U.S. President Barack Obama at a White House press conference on April 23, 2015.\n\nAccording to a 2018 study in the journal \"International Security\", there is scant evidence that drone strikes in Pakistan radicalize at the local, national or transnational level.\n\nAccording to a 2016 study in \"International Studies Quarterly\", drone strikes are an effective counterterrorist tool in Pakistan. The study found that \"drone strikes are associated with decreases in the incidence and lethality of terrorist attacks, as well as decreases in selective targeting of tribal elders.\"\n\nTwo Pakistani novels have been written about U.S. drone attacks on Pakistan, \"Bullets and Train\" and \"The Scriptwriter\". \"Bullets and Train\" specifically deals with the drone attacks and their aftermath. In \"The Scriptwriter\", drone attacks are a part of the central plot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12323644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12323644", "title": "Employment-to-population ratio", "text": "Employment-to-population ratio\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development defines the employment rate as the employment-to-population ratio.\nThis is a statistical ratio that measures the proportion of the country's working age population (statistics are often given for ages 15 to 64) that is employed. This includes people that have stopped looking for work. The International Labour Organization states that a person is considered employed if they have worked at least 1 hour in \"gainful\" employment in the most recent week.\n\nThe employment-population ratio has not always been looked at for labor statistics and where specific areas are economically, but after the recent recession it has been given more attention worldwide, especially by economists. The National Bureau Of Economic Research (NBER) states that the Great Recession ended in June 2009. During 2009 and 2010, however, many areas were still struggling economically, which is the reason the employment-population ratio is still used by both Americans and people around the world.\n\nKey terms that explain the use of the ratio follow:\n\nEmployed persons. All those who, (1) do any work at all as paid employees, work in their own business or profession or on their own farm, or work 15 hours or more as unpaid workers in a family-operated enterprise; and (2) all those who do not work but had jobs or businesses from which they were temporarily absent due to illness, bad weather, vacation, childcare problems, labor dispute, maternity or paternity leave, or other family or personal obligations—whether or not they were paid by their employers for the time off and whether or not they were seeking other jobs.\n\nUnemployed persons. All those who, (1) have no employment during the reference week; (2) are available for work, except for temporary illness; and (3) have made specific efforts, such as contacting employers, to find employment sometime during the past 4-week period.\n\nParticipant rate This represents the proportion of the population that is in the labor force.\n\nNot in the labor force. Included in this group are all persons in the civilian noninstitutional population who are neither employed nor unemployed. Information is collected on their desire for and availability to take a job at the time of the CPS interview, jobsearch activity in the prior year, and reason for not looking for work in past 4-week period.\n\nMultiple jobholders. These are employed persons who, have two or more jobs as a wage and salary worker, are self-employed and also held a wage and salary job, or work as an unpaid family worker and also hold a wage and salary job.\n\nThe ratio is used to evaluate the ability of the economy to create jobs and therefore is used in conjunction with the unemployment rate for a general evaluation of the labour market stance. Having a high ratio means that an important proportion of the population in working age is employed, which in general will have positive effects on the GDP per capita. Nevertheless, the ratio does not give an indication of working conditions, number of hours worked per person, earnings or the size of the black market. Therefore, the analysis of the labour market must be done in conjunction with other statistics.\n\nThis measure comes from dividing the civilian noninstitutionalized population who are employed by the total noninstitutionalized population and multiplying by 100.\n\nIn general, a high ratio is considered to be above 70 percent of the working-age population whereas a ratio below 50 percent is considered to be low. The economies with low ratios are generally situated in the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nEmployment-to-population ratios are typically higher for men than for women. Nevertheless, in the past decades, the ratios tended to fall for men and increase in the case of women, which made the differences between both to be reduced.\n\n"}
{"id": "15530517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15530517", "title": "EnCase", "text": "EnCase\n\nEnCase is the shared technology within a suite of digital investigations products by Guidance Software. The software comes in several products designed for forensic, cyber security, security analytics, and e-discovery use. Encase is traditionally used in forensics to recover evidence from seized hard drives. Encase allows the investigator to conduct in depth analysis of user files to collect evidence such as documents, pictures, internet history and Windows Registry information.\n\nThe company also offers EnCase training and certification.\n\nData recovered by EnCase has been used in various court systems, such as in the cases of the BTK Killer and the murder of Danielle van Dam.\n\nEnCase technology is available within a number of products, currently including: EnCase Forensic, EnCase Cybersecurity, EnCase eDiscovery, EnCase Endpoint Investigator and EnCase Portable. Guidance Software also runs training courses and certification, over 100000 individuals have completed the training to date.\n\nEnCase contains tools for several areas of the digital forensic process; acquisition, analysis and reporting. The software also includes a scripting facility called EnScript with various API's for interacting with evidence.\n\nEnCase contains functionality to create forensic images of suspect media. Images are stored in proprietary \"Expert Witness File\" format; the compressible file format is prefixed with case data information and consists of a bit-by-bit (i.e. exact) copy of the media inter-spaced with CRC hashes for every 64K of data. The file format also appends an MD5 hash of the entire drive as a footer.\n\nAs of EnCase V7, Mobile Phone Analysis is possible with the addition some add-ons available from Guidance Software.\n\n"}
{"id": "4006640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4006640", "title": "Fusion center", "text": "Fusion center\n\nA cyber fusion is an intelligence gathering, analysis and dissemination state or major urban area center, which is owned by state, local, and territorial law enforcement and Department of Homeland Security entities, many of which were jointly created between 2003 and 2007 under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the Office of Justice Programs in the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nThey are designed to promote information sharing at the federal level between agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state, local, and tribal law enforcement. , the U.S. Department of Homeland Security recognized 79 fusion centers. Fusion centers may also be affiliated with an Emergency Operations Center that responds in the event of a disaster.\n\nThe National Network of Fusion Centers was established after the September 11 attacks to provide a focal point for successful collaboration across jurisdictions and sectors to effectively and efficiently detect, prevent, investigate, and respond to criminal and terrorist activity. It is a decentralized, distributed, self-organizing national asset composed of state and major urban area fusion centers and their respective nodes within each center's area of responsibility (AoR). This composition enables the National Network to meet local needs, while providing value information to understand the national landscape of threats and criminal activity.\n\nThe fusion process is an overarching method of managing the flow of information and intelligence across levels and sectors of government to integrate information for analysis. That is, the process relies on the active involvement of state, local, tribal, and federal law enforcement agencies—and sometimes on non-law enforcement agencies (e.g., private sector)—to provide the input of raw information for intelligence analysis. As the array of diverse information sources increases, there will be more accurate and robust analysis that can be disseminated as intelligence.\n\nA report by the House Homeland Security Committee titled \"Advancing the Homeland Security Information Sharing Environment: A Review of the National Network of Fusion Centers\" that was published in November 2017 had overwhelming amounts of positive feedback on the accomplishments and improvement of the network since their last review in 2013, in addition to several recommendations for future improvement in operations and collaboration. It highlights in particular the strides federal partners, namely the Department of Homeland Security, and Fusion Centers have made in sharing critical information and data across several platforms. The chairman of the committee U.S. Representative Michael McCaul was quoted in the report as stating: \n\nThe fusion process proactively seeks to identify perceived threats and stop them before they occur. A fusion center is typically organized by amalgamating representatives from different federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies into one physical location. However, some fusion centers gather information not only from government sources, but also from their partners in the private sector. Each representative is intended to be a conduit of raw information from his or her agency, a representative who can infuse that agency-specific information into the collective body of information for analysis. Conversely, when the fusion center needs intelligence requirements the representative is the conduit back to the agency to communicate, monitor, and process the new information needs. Similarly, the agency representative ensures that analytic products and threat information are directed back to one's home agency for proper dissemination. According to the fusion center guidelines, a fusion center is defined as \"a collaborative effort of two or more agencies that provide resources, expertise, and/or information to the center with the goal of maximizing the ability to detect, prevent, apprehend, and respond to criminal and terrorist activity. The intelligence component of a fusion center focuses on the intelligence process, where information is collected, integrated, evaluated, analyzed, and disseminated. Nontraditional collectors of intelligence, such as public safety entities and private sector organizations, possess important information that can be fused' with law enforcement data to provide meaningful information and intelligence about threats and criminal activity.\"\n\nState and local police departments provide both space and resources for the majority of fusion centers. The analysts working there can be drawn from a range of agencies and organizations, including DHS, FBI, Customs and Border Protection, Drug Enforcement Administration, Coast Guard, National Guard, Highway Patrol, state-level Departments of Corrections, local police, and the private sector. A number of fusion centers operate tip hotlines and also invite relevant information from public employees, such as sanitation workers or firefighters.\n\nThe NFCA is an association that represents all of the fusion centers located across the country that make up the National Network. It is headed by an Executive board composed of a President, Vice President, Executive Director, Treasurer, Secretary, and two regional co-chairs that represent Fusion Centers from the North East, South East, Central, and West regions of the country. The mission of the NFCA is as follows:\n\n\"To represent the interests of state and major urban area fusion centers, as well as associated interests of states, tribal nations, and units of local government, in order to promote the development and sustainment of fusion centers to enhance public safety; encourage effective, efficient, ethical, lawful, and professional intelligence and information sharing; and prevent and reduce the harmful effects of crime and terrorism on victims, individuals, and communities.\"\n\nBelow are the overarching goals of the NFCA in their support of the National Network, and clearly define their existence as an association.\nThe NFCA have their own website located at www.nfcausa.org, which contains contact information for each of the 79 Fusion centers, a tool to submit a Suspicious Activity Report, and general news on the works of Fusion Centers across the country.\n\nThe NFCA hosts an annual training event in Alexandria Virginia. Over 700 fusion center employees, federal and local partners come together to share innovative ideas and business practices for the purpose of enhancing fusion center capabilities and the National Network's contribution to public safety. The conference agenda consists of numerous breakout sessions, presentations and briefings on several topics related to public safety challenges and the domestic terrorism threat picture. Experts from around the country provide outstanding, in-depth instruction on a wide variety of topics to included cyber security, domestic terrorism, federal partner collaboration, private sector engagement, and social media monitoring. The event will also feature several keynote speakers from Federal Entities. Speakers in the past have included FBI director James Comey, former acting Secretary of DHS Elaine Duke, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.\n\nThe fusion center concept was created as a result of the September 11 report, in an attempt by the Department of Homeland Security to create better communication and cooperation between state, local, and territorial law enforcement with federal law enforcement entities including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security and several others. With domestic and foreign threats constantly changing, the strategies used by each Fusion Center have to be defined, and altered, which calls for a specific plans and guidelines as to how to best protect the homeland. The National Strategy for Information Sharing and Safeguarding, as well as The National Strategy for Information Sharing are two documents that influenced the workings of the Fusion Center network, and defined a broad strategy for a more proactive information sharing network. The NFCA alongside several other federal and local law enforcement associations formulated the \"Baseline Capabilities for State and Major Fusion Centers\" as well as the \"National Strategy for the National Network of Fusion Centers\" are documents that defined a clear understanding of the role of Fusion Centers as well as time sensitive goals they should achieve. The National Strategy is constantly being developed as time passes to meet the needs of the changing environment of national security. Additionally, a \"Cyber Appendix\" was added to the Baseline Capabilities document, that defines the roles and operational capabilites of Fusion Centers to fight cyber crime that effects their areas of responsibility.\n\nDue to the nature of their work, Fusion Centers have been key cogs in the response to of many of America's most devastating tragedies. In the past several years, work done by Fusion Centers has resulted in several success stories where hundreds of lives were saved, and the damage has been mitigated on several operational levels.\n\nHurricane Irma was hit several of the Islands off the coast of the U.S.A., including the Virgin Islands. A couple from Falls Church, Virginia had been trapped in their vacation home near St. John due to damage from the hurricane. They had no means to escape their island, no electricity, and a limited amount of water. After their daughter found a video that a pilot had taken from above the island, she noticed the landslide that had trapped her parents in their home. She reached out to congressmen, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Department of Defense, and the Red Cross, but the resources were not available to provide any assistance. Executive Director of the National Fusion Center Association Glenn Archer was alerted of the family's situation, and reached out to the Fusion Center in the Virgin Islands, and after working through the night the Director of the Virgin Islands Fusion Center was able to locate the couple and deploy an FBI SWAT team to their location. The operation was successful, and the couple was able to return to Virginia and be reunited with their daughter. At the time of the rescue, the couple had been trapped for 7 days, and had run out of potable water.\n\nAs a result of information sharing by the Central Florida Intelligence Exchange (CFIX), Louisiana State Analytic and Fusion Exchange (LA-SAFE), and the Orange County Intelligence Assessment Center (OCIAC), three adults were arrested in June 2014 on charges of sex trafficking, an insidious form of human trafficking that has the potential to victimize an estimated 300,000 at-risk children each year in the United States alone.\n\nExtensive information sharing, leading to arrests and convictions, began when Florida's Metropolitan Bureau of Investigation (MBI), a regional task force including representatives from ICE and FBI, initiated an investigation involving a vulnerable runaway minor from Orlando. According to investigative reports, three adults recruited the minor to work as a prostitute in five different US cities – three in Louisiana and two in California. The MBI notified the CFIX about the sex trafficking investigation, and, because the case crossed state lines, the CFIX subsequently teamed up with the LA-SAFE and OCIAC to support the MBI investigation.\n\nWorking across the National Network of Fusion Centers, the CFIX, LA-SAFE and the OCIAC leveraged their vast information access and sharing capabilities to quickly obtain and disseminate key investigative information to MBI and local law enforcement partners. Through the extensive collaboration between fusion centers and law enforcement, all three suspects were identified and convicted, with the ringleader receiving a 30 year sentence in February 2015. These results demonstrate the indispensable role of fusion centers in supporting multi-state criminal investigations.\n\nA report by the House Homeland Security Committee titled \"Advancing the Homeland Security Information Sharing Environment: A Review of the National Network of Fusion Centers\" that was published in November 2017 had overwhelming amounts of positive feedback on the accomplishments and improvement of the network since their last review in 2013, in addition to several recommendations for future improvement in operations and collaboration. Additionally, it addresses the new challenges that will arise in the form of different areas of crime, and how Fusion Centers should address those challenges so that they can continue to effectively analyze intelligence and distribute it to the necessary parties involved.\n\nThe report highlights in particular the strides federal partners, namely the Department of Homeland Security, and Fusion Centers have made in sharing critical information and data across several platforms. The report details that since the release of the Committee's 2013 report, significant progress has been made in the overall maturity of the National Network of Fusion Centers. They state that many fusion centers have expanded capabilities to address all crimes and threats by recognizing that early indicators of terrorism often include criminal activity. The Committee claims they witnessed greater intra-network collaboration, including the exchange of best practices, collaboration on strategic products, and provision of support to other centers during major incidents. Additionally, they discuss how fusion centers are embracing a multidisciplinary approach to outreach programs to better integrate fire, emergency medical services, and the private sector. Finally, the Committee also received significant feedback on the value of the Department of Homeland Security's Homeland Security Information Network to fusion center operations and the importance of continuing to update and expand the system to meet emerging needs.\n\nThere are often misconceptions about the function of fusion centers. The most common misconception is that the center consists of a large room full of work stations where the staff are constantly responding to inquiries from officers, investigators, and agents. This vision is more accurately a watch center or an investigative support center—not an intelligence fusion center. Fusion Centers have the responsibility of proactively gathering intelligence, analyzing that information, and then disseminating it to their local, state and federal partners.\n\nAnother common misconception is that the fusion center is minimally staffed until there is some type of crisis whereupon representatives from different public safety agencies converge in staff workstations to manage the crisis. This staffing model more accurately describes an emergency operations center, not an intelligence fusion center. The fusion center is not an operational center but a support center driven by analysis.\n\nThere are a number of documented criticisms of fusion centers, including relative ineffectiveness at counterterrorism activities, the potential to be used for secondary purposes unrelated to counterterrorism, and their links to violations of civil liberties of American citizens and others. One such fusion center has been involved with spying on anti-war and peace activists as well as anarchists in Washington state.\n\nDavid Rittgers of the Cato Institute has noted:\n\na long line of fusion center and DHS reports labeling broad swaths of the public as a threat to national security. The North Texas Fusion System labeled Muslim lobbyists as a potential threat; a DHS analyst in Wisconsin thought both pro- and anti-abortion activists were worrisome; a Pennsylvania homeland security contractor watched environmental activists, Tea Party groups, and a Second Amendment rally; the Maryland State Police put anti-death penalty and anti-war activists in a federal terrorism database; a fusion center in Missouri thought that all third-party voters and Ron Paul supporters were a threat; and the Department of Homeland Security described half of the American political spectrum as \"right wing extremists.\"\n\nA 2007 ACLU report raised concerns with four areas of fusion center aspects, the first of which was that they suffered from \"ambiguous lines of authority\", meaning that the fusion process \"allows the authorities to manipulate differences in federal, state and local laws to maximize information collection while evading accountability and oversight through the practice of 'policy shopping'.\" The ACLU was also concerned with the private sector and military participation in the surveillance of US citizens through these fusion centers. Finally, the ACLU report argued that fusion centers were likely to engage in poorly contained data mining because the \"Federal fusion center guidelines encourage wholesale data collection and manipulation processes that threaten privacy\" and that the centers were \"hobbled by excessive secrecy\". An updated ACLU report in 2008 argued that the fusion centers were creating a \"total surveillance society\" in the US. An ACLU spokesperson compared the fusion centers initiative with Operation TIPS because of the involvement of private Terrorism Liaison Officers.\n\nMissouri Information Analysis Center (MIAC) made news in 2009 for targeting supporters of third party candidates, Ron Paul supporters, pro-life activists, and conspiracy theorists as potential militia members. Anti-war activists and Islamic lobby groups were targeted in Texas, drawing criticism from the ACLU.\n\nAccording to the Department of Homeland Security:\n\n[T]he Privacy Office has identified a number of risks to privacy presented by the fusion center program:\n\nThe United States Senate Homeland Security Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report said:\n\nAn example of useless intelligence highlighted by the committee was a report on a foreigner with an expired visa who had been caught speeding and shoplifting; his name was promptly added to the list of \"known or appropriately suspected\" terrorists. A reviewer of that report intimated: \"I am actually stunned this report got as far as it did,\" because \"the entire total knowledge about the subject\" was that he \"tried to steal a pair of shoes from Neiman Marcus\" with everything else in the report being commentary. The reviewer concluded: \"I have no idea what value this would be adding to the IC [Intelligence Community].\"\n\nAnother example highlighted in the Senate report was entitled \"Possible Drug Smuggling Activity\". It detailed how two state wildlife officials saw two fishermen in a bass boat \"operating suspiciously\" in waters off the US–Mexico border. The fusion center report listed as suspicions activities the fact that the two suspects \"avoided eye contact\" and that their boat was low in the water, \"as if it were laden with cargo\". The DHS reviewer wrote that: \"The fact that some guys were hanging out in a boat where people normally do not fish MIGHT be an indicator of something abnormal, but does not reach the threshold of something we should be reporting,\" and \"that this should never have been nominated for production, nor passed through three reviews.\"\n\nYet another example was a California fusion center report on the Mongols Motorcycle Club's distribution of leaflets to its members instructing them how to behave when stopped by police. According to the Senate report, the leaflet suggested to the Club members that they should be courteous, control their emotions and, if drinking, have a designated driver. One supervisor eventually killed the fusion center report, noting that \"There is nothing illegal or even remotely objectionable [described] in this report,\" and that \"The advice given to the groups' members is protected by the First Amendment.\"\n\nPart of the problems identified by the Senate report is that the DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis imposed a quota of reports to be filed by the fusion centers, leading to diminished quality. The Senate committee estimated that about $1.4 billion had been spent on the fusion centers. It also estimated that:\n\nMatthew Chandler, a spokesperson for the DHS, immediately denounced the Senate report in an interview with Fox News, in which he said that \"In preparing the report, the committee refused to review relevant data, including important intelligence information pertinent to their findings,\" and that the \"report fundamentally misunderstands the role of the federal government in supporting fusion centers and overlooks the significant benefits of this relationship to both state and local law enforcement and the federal government.\"\n\nInterviewed about the Senate report, Michael Leiter, former Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, stated that: \"Since 9/11, the growth of state and local fusion centers has been exponential and regrettably in many instances it has produced an ill-planned mishmash rather than a true national system that is well-integrated with existing organizations like the FBI-led Joint Terrorism Task Forces.\"\n\nIn early April 2009, the Virginia Fusion Center came under criticism for publishing a terrorism threat assessment which stated that certain universities are potential hubs for terror related activity. The report targeted historically black colleges and identified hacktivism as a form of terrorism.\n\nA November 2011 report by the Illinois fusion center was criticized for alleging that Russia hacked and deliberately disabled a water pump of the municipal water system in Illinois. The Senate report writes: \"Apparently aware of how important such an event could have been had it been real, DHS intelligence officials included the false allegations—stated as fact—in a daily intelligence briefing that went to Congress and the intelligence community.\" A subsequent FBI investigation found however that: \"The only fact that they got right was that a water pump in a small Illinois water district had burned out.\"\n\nA lawsuit alleges that a WSFC employee added members of the Port Militarization Resistance to the domestic terrorists list on unsubstantiated grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "14274605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14274605", "title": "Garden of Peace", "text": "Garden of Peace\n\nThe Garden of Peace in Boston, Massachusetts, is a memorial commemorating victims of homicide and a living reminder of the impact of violence. It is a visual testament to the need for eliminating violence. The Garden of Peace, is a memorial to homicide victims. It is a symbol of hope for peace and renewal in our lives, our community, and the world.\n\nThe central feature of the memorial is a dry streambed containing smooth river stones engraved with the names of victims of homicide. The stream flows from a large, granite lens, \"Tragic Density,\" that symbolizes the enormous weight of sadness and grief experienced and endured by the survivors. The streambed moves through the Garden and culminates in a cascade of water into a pool out of which rises \"Ibis Ascending\", a skyward sculpture representing hope. The seat walls throughout the Garden, also engraved with victims' names, offer a place to sit and reflect.\n\nIt is a special place where families, friends, and the greater community can remember and celebrate the lives of those taken by violence.\n\nThe Garden of Peace encourages change by raising awareness and by serving as an anti-violence educational tool. Local and statewide violence prevention and community-building organizations are welcome and incorporate visits to the Garden into their educational programs. Visitors to Boston are invited to enjoy the beauty of the Garden's park-like setting and to make the experience of the site part of their visit to historic Boston.\n\nEach year the Board of Directors and volunteers organize an event to dedicate the new names of homicide victims being added to the Garden. The Honor Program is usually held on the third Thursday in September. Contact us to learn more on how you can add your loved one to the Garden or if you want to be involved with the Garden of Peace.\n"}
{"id": "2289296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289296", "title": "Grove Press", "text": "Grove Press\n\nGrove Press is an American publishing imprint that was founded in 1947. Imprints include: Black Cat, Evergreen, Venus Library, and Zebra. Barney Rosset purchased the company in 1951 and turned it into an alternative book press in the United States. He partnered with Richard Seaver to bring French literature to the United States. The Atlantic Monthly Press, under the aegis of its publisher, Morgan Entrekin, merged with Grove Press in 1991. Grove later became an imprint of the publisher Grove/Atlantic, Inc.\n\nGrove Press was founded in 1947 in Greenwich Village on Grove Street. The original owners only published three books in three years and so sold it to Barney Rosset in 1951 for three thousand dollars.\n\nUnder Rosset's leadership, Grove introduced American readers to European avant-garde literature and theatre, including French authors Alain Robbe-Grillet, Jean Genet, and Eugène Ionesco. In 1954 Grove published Samuel Beckett's play \"Waiting for Godot\" after it had been refused by more mainstream publishers. Since then Grove has been Beckett's U.S. publisher. Grove is also the U.S. publisher of the works of Harold Pinter; in 2006 it published a collection called \"The Essential Pinter\", which includes Pinter's Nobel Lecture, entitled \"Art, Truth & Politics\".In 2006 Grove published an anniversary bilingual edition of \"Waiting for Godot\" and a special four-volume edition of Beckett's works, with commissioned introductions by Edward Albee, J. M. Coetzee, Salman Rushdie, and Colm Tóibín, to commemorate his centenary (April 2006). Grove was also the first American house to publish the unabridged complete works of the Marquis de Sade, translated by Seaver and Austryn Wainhouse. Grove also had an interest in Japanese literature, publishing several anthologies as well as works by Kenzaburō Ōe and others.\n\nGrove published most of the American Beats of the 1950s (Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs, and Allen Ginsberg) as well as poets like Frank O'Hara of the New York School and poets associated with Black Mountain and the San Francisco Renaissance such as Robert Duncan. In 1963, Grove published \"My Life and Loves: Five Volumes in One/Complete and Unexpurgated\", with annotations, collecting Frank Harris' work in one volume for the first time.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1973 Grove published \"Evergreen Review\", a literary magazine whose contributors included Edward Albee, Bertolt Brecht, William S. Burroughs, Albert Camus, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Nat Hentoff, LeRoi Jones, John Lahr, and Timothy Leary.\n\nGrove has also from time to time published mainstream works. For example, in 1978 it published the script from the George Lucas film \"American Graffiti\" under its Black Cat paperback imprint.\n\nThe defining movements of the 1960s in America—the antiwar, civil rights, black power, counterculture, and student movements in the United States—along with revolutions across the globe, were debated, exposed, and discussed in Grove’s publications as was the sexual revolution. Grove’s books challenged prevailing attitudes about sex through dozens of erotic books, many by \"anonymous\" authors; introduced the layperson to new directions in psychology through Eric Berne’s \"Games People Play\"; and gave voice to revolutionaries around the world, including Che Guevara and Malcolm X. They published works by Frantz Fanon and Régis Debray, and numerous books opposing the Vietnam war and the draft, including information on G.I. rights.\n\nRejecting conventional notions of obscenity and morality, Grove gained a reputation as a controversial publisher committed to fighting censorship as it published some of the most well-known banned books.\n\nIn 1959, Grove Press published an unexpurgated version of D.H. Lawrence’s \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\". The U.S. Post Office Department confiscated copies sent through the mail. Rosset sued the New York city postmaster and his Lawyer Charles Rembar won in New York, and then on federal appeal.\n\nGrove’s success in publishing \"Lady Chatterley’s Lover\" paved the way for Rosset to publish another contested work that was ultimately cleared by the courts, Henry Miller's 1934 novel, \"Tropic of Cancer\". The book contained explicit sexual passages and therefore could not be published in the United States. In 1961, Grove Press issued a copy of the work and lawsuits were brought against dozens of individual booksellers in many states for selling it. The issue was ultimately settled by the U. S. Supreme Court's 1973 decision in Miller v. California. (The Miller of the \"Miller\" case was unrelated to Henry Miller.)\n\nThe William S. Burroughs novel \"Naked Lunch\" was banned in some parts of the world for approximately ten years. The first American publisher was Grove Press. The book was banned by Boston courts in 1962 due to obscenity, but that decision was reversed in a landmark 1966 opinion by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. This was the last major literary censorship battle in the US. Upon publication, Grove Press added to the book supplementary material regarding the censorship battle as well as an article written by Burroughs on the topic of drug addiction. Grove would publish several editions of the novel over the next four decades, including a \"Restored Text\" version in 2002. Grove also published the first American paperback editions of other Burroughs works including \"The Soft Machine\", \"Nova Express\" and \"The Ticket That Exploded\". Grove would also publish the final collection of the author's writings, the posthumously published \"\", and in 2008 published the American first edition of \"And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks\", the first release of a novel that Burroughs and Jack Kerouac had collaborated on in the mid-1940s.\n\nGrove had to defend its Evergreen Review on several occasions due to what was deemed objectionable content. Issues were occasionally seized by the authorities.\n\nAfter winning several battles over the printed page, Grove built on these victories and successfully defended the screening of Vilgot Sjöman’s Swedish film I Am Curious (Yellow).\n\nIn 1962, Grove had sales of $2 million, but after legal bills, lost $400,000. But by 1964, they were profitable, and by 1967, Grove went public and built its own headquarters. In 1970, the staff of 150 began organizing a union. Rosset fired some of the organizers (and later re-hired them in arbitration). The organizers responded with a picket line and an occupation of the building. Rosset called the police, and the occupiers left. His editor, Richard Seaver, talked to the pickets and convinced them to disperse. Grove distributed an anti-union information sheet, and the union vote failed, 86–34. After the vote, Grove fired half its workers.\n\nIn 1985 Rosset sold Grove Press to Ann Getty, Getty Oil, and Sir George Weidenfeld, a British Publisher. Rosset was fired a year later.\n\n\n\"Obscene\", a documentary feature about Rosset and Grove Press by Neil Ortenberg and Daniel O’Connor, was released September 26, 2008. The film was a selection of the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival. Featured in the film are Amiri Baraka, Lenny Bruce, William S. Burroughs, Jim Carroll, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Allen Ginsberg, Al Goldstein, Erica Jong, Ray Manzarek, Michael McClure, Henry Miller, John Rechy, Ed Sanders, Floyd Salas, John Sayles, Gore Vidal, John Waters, and Malcolm X.\n\nGrove Press is referenced several times in the AMC series \"Mad Men\", directly or indirectly. In Season 1, Episode 3, Joan Holloway returns a borrowed copy of D. H. Lawrence's \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\"; the book's first U.S. publisher was Grove Press, who fought numerous court battles over it. Season 2, Episode 13 is titled \"Meditations in an Emergency,\" after a book of poetry by Frank O'Hara published by Grove Press in 1957; later in the episode Don Draper is seen reading the book, after being challenged by a colleague (\"You wouldn't like it.\"). The episode reportedly boosted sales of the book by 218%. Season 4, Episode 11 features Eric Berne's Games People Play, another best-seller published by Grove Press. In Season 5, Episode 9, Don is seen at the theater holding an issue of \"Evergreen Showcard\", Grove's short-lived off-Broadway theatrical magazine. In Season 7, Episode 6, Don mentions to Peggy that he and Megan had seen the film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\" the previous evening (Don: \"[I'm] still scandalized.\" Peggy: \"Of course Megan would want to see a dirty movie.\"); the film's U.S. distributor was Grove Press. In 2010, in an interesting example of art influencing life, Grove/Atlantic (the successor company to Grove Press) published—for real—the memoir of fictional Roger Sterling: \"Sterling's Gold: Wit and Wisdom of an Ad Man\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14275", "title": "Hacker ethic", "text": "Hacker ethic\n\nHacker ethic is a term for the moral values and philosophy that are common in hacker culture. Practitioners of the hacker ethic acknowledge that sharing information and data responsibly is beneficial and helpful. Whilst the philosophy originated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1950s–1960s, the term \"hacker ethic\" is attributed to journalist Steven Levy as described in his 1984 book titled \".\" The key points within this ethic are access, freedom of information, and improvement to quality of life. While some tenets of hacker ethic were described in other texts like \"Computer Lib/Dream Machines\" (1974) by Ted Nelson, Levy appears to have been the first to document both the philosophy and the founders of the philosophy.\n\nLevy explains that MIT housed an early IBM 704 computer inside the Electronic Accounting Machinery (EAM) room in 1959. This room became the staging grounds for early hackers, as MIT students from the Tech Model Railroad Club sneaked inside the EAM room after hours to attempt programming the 30-ton, computer.\n\nThe MIT group defined a \"hack\" as a project undertaken or a product built to fulfill some constructive goal, but also with some wild pleasure taken in mere involvement. The term \"hack\" arose from MIT lingo, as the word had long been used to describe college pranks that MIT students would regularly devise. However, Levy's hacker ethic also has often been quoted out of context and misunderstood to refer to hacking as in breaking into computers, and so many sources incorrectly imply that it is describing the ideals of white-hat hackers. However, what Levy is talking about does not necessarily have anything particular to do with computer security, but addresses broader issues.\n\nThe hacker ethic was described as a \"new way of life, with a philosophy, an ethic and a dream\". However, the elements of the hacker ethic were not openly debated and discussed; rather they were implicitly accepted and silently agreed upon.\n\nThe free software movement was born in the early 1980s from followers of the hacker ethic. Its founder, Richard Stallman, is referred to by Steven Levy as \"the last true hacker\". Modern hackers who hold true to the hacker ethics—especially the Hands-On Imperative—are usually supporters of free and open source software. This is because free and open source software allows hackers to get access to the source code used to create the software, to allow it to be improved or reused in other projects.\n\nRichard Stallman describes:\n\nThe hacker ethic refers to the feelings of right and wrong, to the ethical ideas this community of people had—that knowledge should be shared with other people who can benefit from it, and that important resources should be utilized rather than wasted.\n\nand states more precisely that hacking (which Stallman defines as playful cleverness) and ethics are two separate issues:\n\nJust because someone enjoys hacking does not mean he has an ethical commitment to treating other people properly. Some hackers care about ethics—I do, for instance—but that is not part of being a hacker, it is a separate trait. [...] Hacking is not primarily about an ethical issue. [...] hacking tends to lead a significant number of hackers to think about ethical questions in a certain way. I would not want to completely deny all connection between hacking and views on ethics.\n\nAs Levy summarized in the preface of \"Hackers\", the general tenets or principles of hacker ethic include:\n\n\nIn addition to those principles, Levy also described more specific hacker ethics and beliefs in chapter 2, \"The Hacker Ethic\": The ethics he described in chapter 2 are:\n\n\nFrom the early days of modern computing through to the 1970s, it was far more common for computer users to have the freedoms that are provided by an ethic of open sharing and collaboration. Software, including source code, was commonly shared by individuals who used computers. Most companies had a business model based on hardware sales, and provided or bundled the associated software free of charge. According to Levy's account, sharing was the norm and expected within the non-corporate hacker culture. The principle of sharing stemmed from the open atmosphere and informal access to resources at MIT. During the early days of computers and programming, the hackers at MIT would develop a program and share it with other computer users.\n\nIf the hack was deemed particularly good, then the program might be posted on a board somewhere near one of the computers. Other programs that could be built upon it and improved it were saved to tapes and added to a drawer of programs, readily accessible to all the other hackers. At any time, a fellow hacker might reach into the drawer, pick out the program, and begin adding to it or \"bumming\" it to make it better. Bumming referred to the process of making the code more concise so that more can be done in fewer instructions, saving precious memory for further enhancements.\n\nIn the second generation of hackers, sharing was about sharing with the general public in addition to sharing with other hackers. A particular organization of hackers that was concerned with sharing computers with the general public was a group called Community Memory. This group of hackers and idealists put computers in public places for anyone to use. The first community computer was placed outside of Leopold's Records in Berkeley, California.\n\nAnother sharing of resources occurred when Bob Albrecht provided considerable resources for a non-profit organization called the People's Computer Company (PCC). PCC opened a computer center where anyone could use the computers there for fifty cents per hour.\n\nThis second generation practice of sharing contributed to the battles of free and open software. In fact, when Bill Gates' version of BASIC for the Altair was shared among the hacker community, Gates claimed to have lost a considerable sum of money because few users paid for the software. As a result, Gates wrote an Open Letter to Hobbyists. This letter was published by several computer magazines and newsletters, most notably that of the Homebrew Computer Club where much of the sharing occurred.\n\nMany of the principles and tenets of hacker ethic contribute to a common goal: the Hands-On Imperative. As Levy described in Chapter 2, \"Hackers believe that essential lessons can be learned about the systems—about the world—from taking things apart, seeing how they work, and using this knowledge to create new and more interesting things.\"\n\nEmploying the Hands-On Imperative requires free access, open information, and the sharing of knowledge. To a true hacker, if the Hands-On Imperative is restricted, then the ends justify the means to make it unrestricted \"so that improvements can be made\". When these principles are not present, hackers tend to work around them. For example, when the computers at MIT were protected either by physical locks or login programs, the hackers there systematically worked around them in order to have access to the machines. Hackers assumed a \"willful blindness\" in the pursuit of perfection.\n\nThis behavior was not malicious in nature: the MIT hackers did not seek to harm the systems or their users. This deeply contrasts with the modern, media-encouraged image of hackers who crack secure systems in order to steal information or complete an act of cyber-vandalism.\n\nThroughout writings about hackers and their work processes, a common value of community and collaboration is present. For example, in Levy's \"Hackers\", each generation of hackers had geographically based communities where collaboration and sharing occurred. For the hackers at MIT, it was the labs where the computers were running. For the hardware hackers (second generation) and the game hackers (third generation) the geographic area was centered in Silicon Valley where the Homebrew Computer Club and the People's Computer Company helped hackers network, collaborate, and share their work.\n\nThe concept of community and collaboration is still relevant today, although hackers are no longer limited to collaboration in geographic regions. Now collaboration takes place via the Internet. Eric S. Raymond identifies and explains this conceptual shift in \"The Cathedral and the Bazaar\":\n\nBefore cheap Internet, there were some geographically compact communities where the culture encouraged Weinberg's egoless programming, and a developer could easily attract a lot of skilled kibitzers and co-developers. Bell Labs, the MIT AI and LCS labs, UC Berkeley: these became the home of innovations that are legendary and still potent.\n\nRaymond also notes that the success of Linux coincided with the wide availability of the World Wide Web. The value of community is still in high practice and use today.\n\nLevy identifies several \"true hackers\" who significantly influenced the hacker ethic. Some well-known \"true hackers\" include:\n\n\nLevy also identified the \"hardware hackers\" (the \"second generation\", mostly centered in Silicon Valley) and the \"game hackers\" (or the \"third generation\"). All three generations of hackers, according to Levy, embodied the principles of the hacker ethic. Some of Levy's \"second-generation\" hackers include:\n\n\nLevy's \"third generation\" practitioners of hacker ethic include:\n\n\nIn this digital age, and due to our reliance on technology, hackers are able to gather more information on us than before. One way to combat this is to teach students to hack in such a way that they become what are called \"white hat hackers\". White hat hackers follow ethical guidelines that proscribe harming either other people or the systems on which other people depend. Through their efforts, they have the ability to prevent malicious attacks. The movement of ethical hacking has gained traction through different programs such as the L0pht and GhettoHackers, and courses have become integrated into university- and college-level curriculum.\n\nSecurity researcher and an application security engineer Joe Gervais pointed out that students who are intellectually curious enough may start to experiment with computers without thinking of the ethical repercussions of their actions. He points out that there are a lot of classes that exist for more gifted students in areas such as math, reading, etc. However, there doesn’t seem to be courses that can address the curiosity that a young hacker may have.\n\nHacking courses can create a moral compass for young hackers. They require a constructive environment that allows them to satiate their desire to understand computers. Students in these classes have the ability to learn what they are passionate about while also understanding the ethical boundaries that should not be encroached upon. However, the integral part of the curriculum would be to prevent the development of black hat hackers.\n\nThere seems to be a lack of skilled cyber security experts. Moreover, there doesn’t seem to be sufficient curriculum to teach individuals the skills required to protect systems against malicious action. Teaching ethical hacking is a plausible way to fill the gap in the supply of technically skilled people; capable of successfully implementing defensive mechanisms to overcome real world threats. Ymir Vigfusson, professor at the School of Computer Science at Reykjavik University and assistant professor in Emory University’s Math and Science Department, is a major advocate in favor of educating students about hacking. Ymir points out that teaching hacking can be a way for students to better understand computer security. He believes that hackers have a unique mindset wherein they are constantly thinking about how they can break through security controls. However, defenders, the ones tasked with actually protecting a network are only thinking of ways to keep people out. What hackers can contribute is in their mindset and perspective. This shared mindset and knowledge allows defenders to realize otherwise unseen weak points in security systems and to reinforce them. In 2012, Ymir held a talk at TEDxRekjavijk titled \"Why I Teach People to Hack\" that further illustrates his reasons for supporting the teaching of ethical hacking.\n\nIn 2001, Finnish philosopher Pekka Himanen promoted the hacker ethic in opposition to the Protestant work ethic. In Himanen's opinion, the hacker ethic is more closely related to the virtue ethics found in the writings of Plato and of Aristotle. Himanen explained these ideas in a book, \"The Hacker Ethic and the Spirit of the Information Age\", with a prologue contributed by Linus Torvalds and an epilogue by Manuel Castells.\n\nIn this manifesto, the authors wrote about a hacker ethic centering on passion, hard work, creativity and joy in creating software. Both Himanen and Torvalds were inspired by the Sampo in Finnish mythology. The Sampo, described in the Kalevala saga, was a magical artifact constructed by Ilmarinen, the blacksmith god, that brought good fortune to its holder; nobody knows exactly what it was supposed to be. The Sampo has been interpreted in many ways: a world pillar or world tree, a compass or astrolabe, a chest containing a treasure, a Byzantine coin die, a decorated Vendel period shield, a Christian relic, etc. Kalevala saga compiler Lönnrot interpreted it to be a \"quern\" or mill of some sort that made flour, salt, and gold out of thin air.\n\nThe hacker ethic and its wider context can be associated with liberalism and anarchism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44807323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44807323", "title": "Information Exchange Gateway", "text": "Information Exchange Gateway\n\nNATO has defined the concept of an Information Exchange Gateway (IEG) to facilitate secure communication between different security and management domains. The IEG is designed to provide a standard and secure method of communication between NATO, NATO nations, non-NATO nations, coalition forces, Non Government Organisations (NGOs), and other International Organisations (IOs).\n\nAn Information Exchange Gateway provides Information Exchange Services (IES) to facilitate the exchange of information between networks, including data and protocol translation where necessary, and Information Protection Services (IPS) that ensure only intended information is exchanged. In addition, Node Protection Services (NPS) ensure information is exchanged in a safe and secure way and that only intended information which has been validated by the IPS can be exchanged.\n\nNATO has defined five main IEG scenarios each with scenario variants for transferring classified information. The scenarios take account of the security classifications of the domains that they connect, as well as the security policy, the owners and the administrators of those domains.\n\nIn some scenarios, an IEG must include a guard to provide the IPS and NPS functions. When used with a guard, the IEG's DMZ is split into two.\n\n"}
{"id": "5228765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5228765", "title": "Information Trust Institute", "text": "Information Trust Institute\n\nThe Information Trust Institute (ITI) was founded in 2004 as an interdisciplinary unit designed to approach information security research from a systems perspective. It examines information security by looking at what makes machines, applications, and users trustworthy. Its mission is to create computer systems, software, and networks that society can depend on to be \"trustworthy\", meaning secure, dependable (reliable and available), correct, safe, private, and survivable. ITI's stated goal is to create a new paradigm for designing trustworthy systems from the ground up and validating systems that are intended to be trustworthy.\n\nITI is an academic/industry partnership focusing on application areas such as electric power, financial systems, defense, and homeland security, among others. It brings together over 100 researchers representing numerous colleges and units at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3336514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3336514", "title": "International inequality", "text": "International inequality\n\nInternational inequality refers to the idea of inequality between countries\".\" This can be compared to global inequality which is inequality between people across countries. This may refer to economic differences between countries. As well as, medical care and education differences.\n\nThere are many different ways to define equality. Ronald Dworkin claims that equality is the idea of being able to live without envy. Meaning that countries or citizens can live without the constant desire for the life someone else has. It can be assumed that inequality is the idea where people are living in envy. Many countries are envious of basic needs. Food, clean water, or even health care are some of the things that many countries live without.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Human Development Report 2004, the gross domestic per capita (GDP) in countries with high, medium and low human development (a classification based on the UN Human Development Index) was 24,806, 4,269 and 1,184 PPP$, respectively (PPP$ = purchasing power parity measured in United States dollars). The wealthiest people in the world, especially those with over $100,000 in assets, 1.8% of the global population own 86.4% of the overall wealth (See data for more information).\n\nIn economics and political science, a variety of explanations have been advanced to explain the magnitude of the disparity in economic growth and development between nations.\n\n1. Geography: The location of some countries may affect their economy. Apart of this would be that there are some countries who are able to gain access to certain medicine and medical practices.\n\n2. Colonialism: “Inequality breeds inequality” This being in the sense that as our ancestors travelled to new land, they would settle in these countries. However, this did not change their economy level. This meant that they would just be bringing their inequality to another location.\n\n3. Structure of Economy: Colonialism and historical experiences are widely perceived as creating an unfair global economy that keeps poor countries poor and rich countries rich.\n\n4. Population Growth: Poor countries have had a large increase in population over the years. This causes a lack of resources. More people mean more resources being used.\n\n5. Government Policies: Some eastern countries have policies where the people must rely on religion and not science. This may leave the people to not receive the medical treatment they need. Due to the medical care not being a part of the religion.\n\n6. Political Instability: Countries that have no governmental structure have problems with deciding how to use resources. Example, Angola has an abundance of resources. However, due to not having a stable political system, they are suffering from a poor economy and low life-expectancy.\n\n7. Natural Disasters: Earthquakes, droughts, hurricanes, and many other disasters play a role in the inequality within countries.\n\nEconomic institutions such as competitive markets, credible contracts and systems of property rights allow economic agents to pursue the economic activities which form the basis of growth. It has been argued that the presence or absence of strong economic institutions is a primary determinant of development. Economists have begun to consider the set of economic institutions adopted by countries as a choice that is in turn determined endogenously by competing social forces.\n\nPointing to European colonization as a \"natural experiment,\" Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James A. Robinson argue that colonizers who encountered dense populations with developed economies such as in Central America and India were incentived to impose extractive economic institutions, while colonizers who encountered sparse populations with few natural resources such as in North America were more likely to institute broad-based property rights. This resulted in a \"reversal of fortune\" around 1800 as regions which were under-developed at the time of colonization were able to industrialize more effectively. By instrumenting the strength of property rights in colonized nations with European settler mortality (a quasi-random determinant of whether Europeans were able to establish colonies), the authors conclude in a widely cited paper that the majority of present-day inequality among former European colonies can be attributed to the persisting role of economic institutions.\n\nIn the context of development, path dependence encapsulates the idea that certain decisive moments in history may have an outsized and persistent impact on the long-run economic and political character of nations. These moments, known as critical junctures, may produce outcomes which induce positive feedback and thereby set nations on patterns of development that are difficult to reverse.\n\nPolitical scientist James Mahoney has examined the political consequences of a period of liberal reform which swept Central America in the 19th and early 20th centuries. As an example of path dependence, the author argues that whether policies were implemented along radical or reformist guidelines directly determined the success of the liberalization efforts and ultimately resulted in vastly different political outcomes which persisted for decades, ranging from military authoritarian regimes (Guatemala and El Salvador) to progressive democracy (Costa Rica).\n\nA multitude of other explanations have been propounded including:\n\nA study by the World Institute for Development Economics Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000, and that the richest 10% of adults accounted for 85% of the world total. The bottom half of the world adult population owned barely 1% of global wealth. In 2013, Oxfam International released a report to The World Economic Forum that the richest 1% owns 48 percent of the global wealth. In 2014, Oxfam reported that the 85 wealthiest individuals in the world have a combined wealth equal to that of the bottom 50% of the world's population, or about 3.5 billion people. More recently, in January 2015, Oxfam reported that the wealthiest 1 percent will own more than half of the global wealth by 2016.\n\nThe major component of the world's income inequality (the global Gini coefficient) is comprised by two groups of countries (called the \"twin peaks\" by Quah [1997]).\n\nEconomic inequality often closely matches a lognormal or Pareto distribution both across economies and within them.\n\nThe evolution of the income gap between poor and rich countries is related to convergence. Convergence can be defined as \"the tendency for poorer countries to grow faster than richer ones and, hence, for their levels of income to converge\". Convergence is a matter of current research and debate, but most studies have shown lack of evidence for absolute convergence based on comparisons among countries.\n\nAccording to current research, global income inequality peaked approximately in the 1970s when world income was distributed bimodally into \"rich\" and \"poor\" countries with little overlap. Since then inequality have been rapidly decreasing, and this trend seems to be accelerating. Income distribution is now unimodal, with most people living in middle-income countries.\n\nGlobal poverty is when people within certain countries are living on less than a dollar a day.\n\nThere are six different aspects that can attribute to global poverty.\n\n1. Hunger: Countries without the proper amount of food to survive.\n\n2. Mental state: This is where people or the country as a whole is feeling powerless, ashamed, or humiliated. This is connected to the fact that they must rely or ask other countries for help and are unable to survive on their own.\n\n3. Poor groundwork: Lack of roads, clean water, transportation, etc. Meaning that they do not have a stable foundation in order to provide these things.\n\n4. Education: People do not have access to proper education or any education at all.\n\n5. Health: Countries are unable to provide the proper health care that many people need in order to survive.\n\n6. Lack of income: People within a poor country tend to put income aside and focus on their family, physical, and environmental assets.\n\nAlong with these six-dimensional aspects, there is also some things preventing the decline of global poverty. One reason is because of the ongoing armed conflicts going on throughout countries. Some countries who are suffering from poverty, are not receiving aid from other countries due to not wanted to be a part of the conflict. Countries do not want to causes problems with other countries, so they decide to stay neutral and not help.\n\nA second reason for number of countries in poverty not declining would be that there is not a lot of support from other countries. Many rich countries, such as the United States, do not give a ton of support to countries in poverty. Again, this can connect to the sense of not wanting to get involved with countries in conflict.\n\nThe final reason has to do with certain organizations not knowing where and what to start with. These organizations can see that there is a lot of countries who are in poverty and need help. However, it can be a challenge deciding who gets what money and how much they get. These organizations do not have unlimited funds and need to be careful where money is being used.\nThe Global Poverty Project is an organization that works to help reduce the global poverty percentage. They have currently contributed $35 billion in order to help provide the care many people need. This money has been earned through fundraisers and donations.\n\nThis organization has provided clean water and sanitation stations for people in countries like India. Sanitation stations help avoid contaminating clean water that can be used for drinking or cooking. They have also helped with providing education in countries where education has taken a back seat.\n\nThe Global Poverty Project was started in 2008 and has headquarters in Canada, The United Kingdom, and Australia. There is also an office in New York. They project that by 2030, there will be a major decrease in those who are living in poverty and an increase in education, healthy living, and the global economy.\n\nSome of the economic disparities among nations can be better appreciated when rich and poor countries or societies are contrasted. For example, with regard to income inequality, according to some estimates by Branko Milanovic from the World Bank:\nWith regard to wealth inequality (researchers defined wealth as the value of physical and financial assets minus debts), a 2006 report with data from 2000 concluded that:\nJames Davies, Professor of Economics at the University of Western Ontario, and one of the authors of the report, said: \"Income inequality has been rising for the past 20 to 25 years and we think that is true for inequality in the distribution of wealth.\" \"There is a group of problems in developing countries that make it difficult for people to build assets, which are important, since life is so precarious.\"\n\nOther disparities can be better appreciated when rich individuals (or corporations) are compared against poor individuals. According to some estimates, for instance:\n\nAs of 2017, over 70% of the world's adults have under $10,000 in wealth. This can be seen through the bar graph on the right. \nThis bar graph also shows that as the value rises, the total percentage of adults falls. This is because there are not a large percent of people who make a lot nor have a lot. Only .7% of the world has one million dollars or more in wealth.\n\nHowever, looking at the wealth share, this number continues to rise. This is because those few people who have higher assets in wealth, typically hold a larger percentage of the world's wealth.\n\nWealth:\n\nIncome:\n\nWelfare spending: If East Asia and southern Latin American countries are taken out of the equation, the differences in government spending between the industrialized and developing is as follows:\n\nTherefore, in contrast to the North, the developing states are far more vulnerable to the pressures arising from economic globalization. Overall, social spending is far lower in the South, with some regions registering just a few percentage points of GDP. However, some people argue that decrease in welfare spending is not an issue of global inequality but rather a common phenomenon in an era of globalization.\n\nSome potential solutions to help with decreasing the inequality levels are:\n\nEducation and Family Planning: Many countries with education access have higher income levels. Part of this is because people are striving for a career and are striving for higher education. Countries who do not have access to education have lower income. Women who have access to an education will have less children because they are focusing on building themselves.\n\nDemocracy (may be of some help): Democracy offers people the opportunity to vote on people in power or specific issues. This can help with people having a say in what goes on and what happens within their country. Making decisions on where money is spent and programs that can help provide for the poor.\n\nGovernment policies:The government could play an important role on the economy and poverty. The government can create policies that can aid the poor and help provide proper medicine to those in need.\n\nPay attention to women: Women play a large role in inequality through the raising of children. They help with children's education and they encourage their children to reach their potential. If women are feeling good about themselves, then they can take that positive attitude in order to help raise their own children for success.\n\nImprove agriculture: Poor countries tend to suffer from food shortages. One thing that could be done is to help improve farming grounds and live stock development. By starting the proper groundwork for crops, it will help provide the nutrition that many people need. Live stock can provide milk, eggs, meat, and cheese for consuming. This can also help provide fur and feathers for making clothing and other goods. This could be sold to help with low income.\n\nThink Small: Having volunteers travel to poor countries in order to help can make a large difference to those countries. Going to help build homes, do studies on the area, or even to help provide food/clean water can make a large difference to developing countries.\n\nThere are various schools of thought regarding economic inequality. Marxism favors an eventual society where distribution is based on an individual's needs rather than social class or other such factors. Meritocracy favors an eventual society where an individual's success is a direct function of contribution reflecting an individual's skills and effort, and detrimental (this is a value judgement) inasmuch as it represent inherited or unjustified wealth or opportunities. Classical liberals and libertarians generally do not take a stance on wealth inequality, but believe in equality under the law regardless of whether it leads to unequal wealth distribution. Arguments based on social justice favor a more equal distribution making claims economic inequality weakens societies, although counter-arguments are made that inequality might benefit societies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21095978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21095978", "title": "LGBT rights in the Turks and Caicos Islands", "text": "LGBT rights in the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in the British Overseas Territory of the Turks and Caicos Islands face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Same-sex sexual activity has been legal in the Turks and Caicos Islands since 2001, and discrimination based on sexual orientation is constitutionally banned. Nevertheless, same-sex couples are unable to marry or jointly adopt.\n\nSame-sex sexual acts were expressly decriminalised under the United Kingdom's \"Caribbean Territories (Criminal Law) Order, 2000\", which took effect on 1 January 2001.\n\nThe law received considerable local media coverage. The two largest newspapers (one of each belongs to the two largest political parties) described the law as \"an affront to our country\" and \"the sissy law\".\n\nThe Turks and Caicos Islands do not recognise same-sex unions. Article 10 of the Constitution reads:\n\nArticle 16 of the Constitution bans discrimination based on sexual orientation:\n\nThe Turks and Caicos Islands are considered a safe destination for LGBT tourists. LGBT people tend to face no discrimination issues in resorts and very touristic areas. Most Turks and Caicos inhabitants are quite tolerant of same-sex relationships. Several gay-themed cruise ships have also been allowed to port in the islands.\n\nThere are no known gay rights organisations in the Turks and Caicos Islands. Several government education programmes on HIV/AIDS have reached out to gay men, though.\n\nHomophobia in the Turks and Caicos Islands is mostly religious-based. Following the passage of Proposition 8 in California, several religious preachers called on same-sex marriage to be constitutionally banned in island law. Religious groups have also opposed greater awareness and prevention of HIV/AIDS, erroneously claiming that straight men and women cannot get infected.\n\n"}
{"id": "18783715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18783715", "title": "Leung Chin-man appointment controversy", "text": "Leung Chin-man appointment controversy\n\nThe Leung Chin-man appointment controversy occurred in Hong Kong in August 2008, when the former Permanent Secretary for Housing, Planning and Lands, Leung Chin-man, was named Deputy Managing Director and Executive Director of New World China Land Ltd.\n\nThere was widespread suspicion among members of the public that job offer was a \"quid pro quo\" for the favours he allegedly granted to its parent company, New World Development (NWD), in 2004. The Civil Service Bureau (CSB), which was responsible for vetting the appointments of former civil servants against potential conflicts of interest, admitted to failing in their duty to consider all relevant factors.\n\nIn 2004, while Leung was Director of Housing, the government sold an unused Private Sector Participation Scheme project. The sale of the Hung Hom Peninsula HOS housing estate to NWD took place at less than half of the original asking price.\n\nIn November 2005, Leung was criticised in an Audit Commission report, for having exercised his discretionary power before conferring with other government departments in 2001. Henderson Land Development had been granted permission to exclude the public transport terminus from the gross floor area in its building plan for their \"Grand Promenade\" development, thus gaining additional revenues of HK$3.2 billion as a result of the decision. The effect was to allow the addition of 10,700 square meters to the project.\n\nDirectorate officers wishing to take up outside work, paid or unpaid, full-time or part-time, during their final leave period before their formal departure from the Government and/or within a specified control period counting from the said departure, should apply for prior permission from the Secretary for the Civil Service (SCS) in accordance with detailed arrangements set out in CSB Circular No. 10/2005. According to procedures drawn up, civil servants of Leung's grade are subject to a 12-month 'sterilisation period' and required government approval to take up private sector posts within three years of leaving. Procedures laid down required that views from the relevant bureaux be taken into account.\n\nThe Secretary for the Civil Service, Denise Yue Chung-yee, signed off on the approval for him to take up the job after it passed through the Advisory committee on post-service employment of civil servants, responsible for vetting the appointment.\n\nThe Transport and Housing Bureau, the Development Bureau and Administrative Officer Grade Management were asked for their views. On receiving these submissions, the CSB prepared a paper for the Advisory committee to facilitate their consideration.\n\nThe view taken by the CSB was that Leung would oversee only mainland business of his future employer, and that bearing in mind he had ceased to be Director of Buildings for six years, and had left the post of Permanent Secretary of Housing two years previously, his appointment was \"unlikely to present problems of conflict of interest\". In order to address any potential public perception issue, additional conditions were imposed in addition to the standard set of conditions. Accordingly, Leung's employment was to be confined to New World China Land, not represent his employer in dealings with the Government, would refrain from involvement in any Hong Kong related dealings of his direct employer, and not to disclose sensitive or classified information to his employer. On 4 July 2008, the committee submitted its recommendation to the SCS to approve Leung's appointment, and the SCS duly gave her approval on 8 July, on the terms stipulated.\n\nFor many citizens, the incident was proof that there was collusion between the government and big business. Controversies surrounded not only the suspicions of Leung's own conflict of interest, but also of the insensitivity of the committee which recommended the approval for him to take up his new job with a HK$3.12 million pay packet, plus bonus, so soon after his retirement. Mr. Justice Pang Kin-kee, who chaired the vetting committee, was also himself criticised for conflict of interest for his close friendship with Leung. Political scientist Ma Ngok said \"It is inevitable that the public will consider the advisory committee to be just a rubber stamp when the approval rate was 100%.\" Albert Cheng commented: \"[the] controversial appointment is a political time bomb, which threatens to seriously undermine the authority of the administration.\" Senior Non-Expatriate Officers Association chairman Poon Wai-ming argued that the controversy arose from a lack of strict enforcement of the procedures, and not their inadequacies. New World argued that they hired Leung in good faith after government clearance. Albert Chan of the League of Social Democrats and 50 members of the public filed a complaint with the Independent Commission Against Corruption days after his appointment became public.\n\nThe Secretary for the Civil Service came under fire for approving an appointment that gives the strong appearance of a conflict of interest. Chief Executive Donald Tsang asked the Secretary for the Civil Service to account for the approval process in a written report.\n\nOn 13 August 2008, \"Apple Daily\" reported that the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office had asked the Hong Kong government to solve the problem on or before 24 August, and that the best way forward would be for Leung to resign from NWD. However, \"The Standard\" reports that the \"Apple\" assertions \"could not be substantiated\". However, an unnamed top Beijing official in Hong Kong was quoted in the \"South China Morning Post\" as warning, without specifically identifying the subject he was referring to, that conflicts among interest groups may threaten Hong Kong's stability if not properly handled.\n\nOn 15 August, the Civil Service Bureau issued the report requested by Donald Tsang where they admitted that they had not considered Leung's role in the Hung Hom Peninsula affair when approving his application, and was thus not mentioned in the report to the Advisory Committee or the subsequent submission to the SCS. Although the Works branch and the Transport and Housing branch suggested that there may be a \"public perception issue\", neither believed that the appointment was \"[likely to].. create a negative impact or embarrass the government\" because his role was in mainland subsidiary. Donald Tsang asked the SCS to reassess the approval, and submit a report to him.\n\nNew World Development announced in the early hours of 16 August that Leung had resigned from his post, and would not be seeking compensation from the government, for its \"inappropriate handling\". Leung professed his \"shock\" to learn that officials had not considered his role in the Hung Hom Peninsula sale, and tendered his resignation. It was understood that the reassessment by the SCS would take place notwithstanding Leung's resignation.\n\nYue lost credibility within and outside government circles as a result of the case, but said she hoped to stay in her position. Commentator Chris Yeung stated that Tsang's request for the bureaux to do their job again deals a body blow to the authority and image of Yue and the bureaux. A SCMP editorial criticised the \"glaring lack of political sense of some of our senior officials.\" Lee Wing-tat said it was clear from the episode that the government considered the public stupid. Albert Cheng pointed to the composition of the four-man Advisory committee, saying that issues would have been flagged had it included pan-democrats instead of just establishment figures.\n\nThere were only muted calls for Secretary's resignation. Commentators suggested that parties feared that demands for Yue's resignation would alienate civil servants in the forthcoming LegCo elections.\n\nThe next day, Donald Tsang confirmed that Denise Yue would not have to resign. He was satisfied with her apology and with the explanations offered by her. Tsang ordered a committee, of which Yue was to be a member, to be set up to perform a sweeping review of the system to process applications for former civil servants. This sparked fears among civil servants that their job opportunities after retirement would be curtailed.\n\nIn an op-ed, Christopher Cheung states that Leung was quickly sentenced by the court of public opinion, and was \"dangerously close to mob rule\". The facts of the case rested on guidelines introduced in January 2006 which \"elevate public opinion to the level of tyranny\", and whose rigid entry and exit criteria from the civil service stand in the way of modernising the civil service.\n"}
{"id": "4652008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652008", "title": "Libertarian paternalism", "text": "Libertarian paternalism\n\nLibertarian paternalism is the idea that it is both possible and legitimate for private and public institutions to affect behavior while also respecting freedom of choice, as well as the implementation of that idea. The term was coined by behavioral economist Richard Thaler and legal scholar Cass Sunstein in a 2003 article in the \"American Economic Review\". The authors further elaborated upon their ideas in a more in-depth article published in the \"University of Chicago Law Review\" that same year. They propose that libertarian paternalism is paternalism in the sense that \"it tries to influence choices in a way that will make choosers better off, as judged by themselves\" (p. 5); note and consider, the concept paternalism specifically requires a restriction of choice. It is libertarian in the sense that it aims to ensure that \"people should be free to opt out of specified arrangements if they choose to do so\" (p. 1161). The possibility to opt-out is said to \"preserve freedom of choice\" (p. 1182). Thaler and Sunstein published \"Nudge\", a book-length defense of this political doctrine, in 2008 (new edition 2009). \n\nLibertarian paternalism is similar to asymmetric paternalism, which refers to policies designed to help people who behave irrationally and so are not advancing their own interests, while interfering only minimally with people who behave rationally. Such policies are also asymmetric in the sense that they should be acceptable both to those who believe that people behave rationally and to those who believe that people often behave irrationally.\n\nSetting the default in order to exploit the default effect is a typical example of a soft paternalist policy. Countries that have an \"opt-out\" system for voluntary organ donation (anyone who did not explicitly refuse to donate their organs in the case of accident is considered a donor) experience dramatically higher levels of organ donation consent, than countries with an opt-in system. Austria, with an opt-out system, has a consent rate of 99.98%, while Germany, with a very similar culture and economic situation, but an opt-in system, has a consent rate of only 12%.\n\nCab drivers in New York City have seen an increase in tips from 10% to 22% after passengers had the ability to pay using credit cards on a device installed in the cab whose screen presented them with three default tip options, ranging from 15% to 30%.\n\nUntil recently, the default contribution rate for most tax-deferred retirement savings plans in the United States was zero, and despite the enormous tax advantages, many people took years to start contributing if they ever did. Behavioral economists attribute this to the \"status quo bias\", the common human resistance to changing one's behavior, combined with another common problem: the tendency to procrastinate. Research by behavioral economists demonstrated, moreover, that firms which raised the default rate instantly and dramatically raised the contribution rates of their employees.\n\nRaising default contribution rates is also an example of asymmetric paternalism. Those who are making an informed deliberate choice to put aside zero percent of their income in tax deferred savings still have this option, but those who were not saving simply out of inertia or due to procrastination are helped by higher default contribution rates. It is also asymmetric in the second sense: If you do not believe that defaults matter, because you believe that people will make rational decisions about something as important as retirement saving, then you should not care about the default rate. If you believe that defaults matter, on the other hand, you should want to set defaults at the level that you believe will be best for the largest number of people.\n\nThere has been much criticism of the ideology behind the term, \"libertarian paternalism\". For example, it has been argued that it fails to appreciate the traditional libertarian concern with coercion in particular, and instead focuses on freedom of choice in a wider sense. Others have argued that, while libertarian paternalism aims to promote wellbeing, there may be more libertarian aims that could be promoted, such as maximizing future liberty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10531085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10531085", "title": "Lincoln (surveillance)", "text": "Lincoln (surveillance)\n\nLincoln, manufactured by the company Pen-Link, Ltd., is a class of electronic data interception products—including both computer hardware and software packages—whose function is to extract and analyze internet traffic for mass surveillance purposes, such as those outlined under the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act (CALEA).\n\nLincoln systems enable law enforcement and intelligence agencies to monitor numerous types of intercepted electronic communications—including telephone (landline & wireless), VoIP, 3G and IP (web/email/IM traffic).\n\nLincoln systems are generally implemented along with other Pen-Link products to enable features such as databases to store intercepted communications, mapping software (to monitor the locations of surveillance targets), visualization software, and link analysis features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30255935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30255935", "title": "List of food labeling regulations", "text": "List of food labeling regulations\n\nThe packaging and labeling of food is subject to regulation in most regions/jurisdictions, both to prevent false advertising and to promote food safety.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46590675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46590675", "title": "Marine Corps Planning Process", "text": "Marine Corps Planning Process\n\nMarine Corps Planning Process is the primary planning process used by the United States Marine Corps at all levels. Its successful execution is widely regarded as essential for mission success. This planning process involves six steps: Problem Framing, Course of Action (COA) Development, COA Wargaming, COA Comparison and Decision, Orders Development, and Transition.\n"}
{"id": "44179414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44179414", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education and Highways", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education and Highways\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Highways (; ) is a cabinet ministry of the Government of Sri Lanka responsible for formulating and implementing national policy on higher education and highways and other subjects which come under its purview. Broadly, this involves the maintenance, expansion, standardisation and general oversight and regulation of higher education institutions in the country, as well as the development, maintenance and management of the national highway network.\n\nThe current Minister of Higher Education and Highways, State Minister of Higher Education and State Minister of Highways are Kabir Hashim, Mohan Lal Grero and Dilan Perera respectively. The ministry's secretary is D. C. Dissanayake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45333681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45333681", "title": "Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974", "text": "Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974\n\nMobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 or National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act is a United States federal law establishing design and development safety standards for manufactured housing or prefabricated homes. The codified law authorized stipulations whereas any proposed safety standard shall be equitable for a particular type of mobile home with consideration of additional cost liabilities for the future homeownership. The Act of Congress endorsed violative civil penalties and judicial review of Federal mobile home construction and safety standards developed by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Act mandated the establishment of the National Mobile Home Advisory Council and National Mobile Home Administration.\n\nThe S. 2538 legislation appended the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 on February 27, 1974. The Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 was a significant congressional amendment to the Housing Act of 1937. The United States housing authorization bill was passed by the United States 93rd Congressional session and enacted into law by the 38th President of the United States Gerald Ford on August 22, 1974.\n\nCongressional amendments to the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "44113626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44113626", "title": "Movemento Estudantil Universitario", "text": "Movemento Estudantil Universitario\n\nMovemento Estudantil Universitario (MEU, \"University Student(s) Movement\" or \"Student Universitarian Movement\" in English language) was a student union representative of college students with presence in the universities of Galicia. Born in December 2010, its main goal was a single, public, Galician, international and democratic university in Galicia.\n\nIn 1994, in reaction to what was perceived as the Galician People's Union control over the CAF, a group of students created a new student union called Movemento Estudantil Universitario. In the middle 90s it was one of the most important student unions of Galicia. The original MEU disappeared in the late 1990s due to the lack of new militants.\n\nIn 2010 a new group of students, with the same motivations that those of the 1990s, decided to recover the project of the MEU. These group of students broke with the Comités and formed a new MEU. In 2011 Comités suffered other major split, that resulted in the formation of the more left-wing Galician Student League. The new MEU didn't have the success of the original one. In 2012 the organization gained a seat in the Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela. The new MEIU disappeared between 2013 and 2014 but was not officially dissolved, like in the 90s. The new MEU was linked with Máis Galiza (until 2012) and Compromiso por Galicia (2012–2014) and with their youth wing, the Galician Nationalist Youth.\n"}
{"id": "48735002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48735002", "title": "Mãe Menininha do Gantois", "text": "Mãe Menininha do Gantois\n\nMãe Menininha do Gantois (10 February 1894 – 13 August 1986) also known as Mother Menininha do Gantois, was a Brazilian spiritual leader \"(iyalorixá)\" and spiritual daughter of orixá Oxum, who officiated for 64 years as the head of one of the most noted Candomblé temples, the Ilê Axé Iyá Omin Iyamassê, or Terreiro do Gantois, of Brazil, located in Alto do Gantois in Salvador, Bahia. She was instrumental in gaining legal recognition of Candomblé and its rituals, bringing an end to centuries of prejudice against Afro-Brazilians, who practiced their faith. When she died on 13 August 1986, the State of Bahia declared a three-day state mourning in her honour, and the City Council of Salvador held a special session to pay tributes to her. The Terreiro do Gantois temple has been declared a protected national monument.\n\nMaria Escolástica da Conceição Nazaré Assunção was born on 10 February 1894 in Salvador, Bahia. Her grand mother, who had baptized her, gave her the nickname as Menininha meaning \"Little girl\" She was born into a matriarchal society to Maria da Glória and Joaquim Assunção, who were Afro-Brazilian with Yoruba Nigerian royal ancestry from Egba-Alakê in Abeokutá, a kingdom in the southwestern part of Nigeria. \nHer great grandparents, Maria Júlia da Conceição do Nazaré and Francisco Nazaré Eta, were the first blacks to be freed from slavery. Maria Júlia's daughter Damiana was the mother of . Menininha was initiated into the worship of deities at the Terreiro do Gantois when she was 8 years old by her grandmother Maria Julia da Conceição Nazaré who had built the temple \"Ile Iyá Omi Axé Iyamassê\". She was married to Alvaro MacDowell de Oliveira and they had two daughters. The elder daughter was Mãe Cleusa da Conceição Nazaré de Oliveira, born in 1923, who was a doctor and who became the inherited Candomblé priestess of the temple after her mother's death. She died in 1998 and was succeeded by Menininha's other daughter, Mãe Carmem. As spiritual heads of their temple, all of the Candomblé priestesses receive the honorific 'mãe', which in the Portuguese language means \"mother\".\n\nThe temple, which she headed was established by her grandmother Mãe Pulquéria following a dispute over leadership from Engenho Velho, an older temple said to be one of the oldest Candomblé temple (1830 or even 100 years older) in Bahia which had been built by three freed African women. Two temples were built, one was the Terreiro do Gantois built in 1900 by Mãe Pulquéria and the other was Ile Axe Opo Afonja credited to Mãe Aninha. Mãe Pulquéria, who was the functional head of the Terreiro do Gantois, died suddenly in 1918. As she had no children, her niece Maria da Glória Nazaré was designated as her successor, but Maria died in 1920 before assuming office. Then according to hierarchical rights the temple was given to Mother Menininha. This process was confirmed by deities Oxóssi, Shango, Oshun and Babalú-Ayé. Once chosen and confirmed in 1922 Menininha became the head of the Candomblé do Gantois. She dedicated her life to the temple and for the cause of the African religion of Candomblé which represented to her the \"last stronghold of the black dignity\". She faced persecution at the hands of the Brazilian government and even incarceration, as well as being subjected to harassment. She defended the African-Brazilian traditions of worship at the Terreiro do Gantois and other Terreiros at Engenho Velho and Casa Branca. Her struggle, in association with other well known candomblé priesteses like Stella de Oxossi, asserted the Africanness of Candombé, stressing the fact that their religion was not the same as Roman Catholicism.\n\nOne of the reasons she became prominent was that she initiated hundreds of \"daughters\" into the faith, as well as artists, and invited the academic community to study the roots of the religion. One of those academics, Ruth Landes compiled her findings and published a book, \"City of Women\" (1947) discussing how the racial policies of the government were intertwined with the Candomblé religious rites. Antônio Carlos Magalhães, a powerful senator from Bahia; Carybé, the illustrator; and and Pierre Verger, two other anthropologists who studied Afro-Brazilian communities, were also prominent connections used by Menininha to further study and promote the validity of Candomblé. These studies were influential in furthering research on the Nigerian roots of the religion, but at the same time brought criticism from other temples in the faith that Menininha was exploiting the religion. However, her success in obtaining legalization of the religion in the 1970s facilitated the first freedom to practice their faith in hundreds of years and began the process of eliminating prejudice against other Afro-Brazilian faiths.\n\nMenininha died at the age of 92 on 13 August 1986. At the special session held in the City Council of Salvador to commemorate her death, Edvaldo Britto, Deputy Mayor; Pedro Godinho, President of the House; her friends; and attended. Veloso paid a tribute to the mother by highlighting her role as the priestess in leading the resistance and fighting against discrimination and religious faith. Her successor to the temple was her daughter Cleusa who was chosen as priestess in 1989. Upon Cleusa's death, the deities chose her younger sister, to succeed her. Menininha became a symbol of motherhood and spiritual daughter of the Orixa Oxum. Her ritual chair, which appears like a throne, is placed at the entry to the city museum in Salvador.\n\nMany songs have been written paryear songs seeking her blessings and spiritual guidance. Beth Carvalho, a famous singer paid tribute to her in his composition titled \"'O Encanto do Gantois\", in 1985. One of these poems reads:\nPrayer to Mother Menininha<br>Oh my mother<br>My Mother Menininha<br>Oh my mother<br>The little girl Gantois<br>The most beautiful star, <br> huh? It's in the Gantois <br>And the brightest sun, <br>huh? It's in the Gantois<br>The beauty of the world,<br> huh? It's in the Gantois<br> And the hand of sweetness,<br> huh? It's in the Gantois<br>The comfort us, eh? It's in the Gantois<br>And Oshun more beautiful, huh? It's in the Gantois <br>Olorun who sent <br>This daughter of Oshun <br>Take care of us <br> And all that is <br>Olorun who sent ô ô <br>Now yeh yeh ô ...<br>Now yeh yeh ô\n\n"}
{"id": "33160199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33160199", "title": "Nonviolence International South East Asia", "text": "Nonviolence International South East Asia\n\nNonviolence International Southeast Asia (NISEA) is a part of Nonviolence International and was established in Bangkok in 1992 with the cooperation of regional partners with the aim of creating a community of peace activists. It is a member of the International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) targeting armed violence and weapon reduction in Thailand and Cambodia respectively. In the year 2004, NISEA maintained a strong financial position of an income of 3.5 million Thai Baht through various grants and contributions, whereby 900,000 Baht was spent on Southeast Asia Small Arms Reduction Program. In 2005, NISEA was granted NGO in Special Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).\n\nNonviolence International South East Asia (NISEA) strives to shape South East Asian societies to make them choose nonviolent methods as a neutral response to conflicts. Its mission includes: \n\nNISEA aims to fulfill its mission through three core programs that focus on education, empowerment and structural change.\n\nThe Ending Armed Violence Program focuses on making communities safer through an in depth understanding of why armed violence occurs, as well as strengthening a peace community that advocates an end to armed violence. NISEA has participated actively in various peace advocacies aiming to ban land mines, render the misuse and proliferation of arms and its impact on communities, change people's perception and behavior toward violence, engage non-state armed groups in the areas of Human Rights and International humanitarian law, seek assistance for victims and survivors of armed violence, and propagate a culture of peace. \nIn relation to stopping the use and proliferation of small arms in Thailand, NISEA had:\n\nDespite efforts made to tackle the issues of armed violence in Thailand, it was reported in 2010 that death due to armed conflicts remained prevalent of about a loss of 4000 lives.\n\nReclaiming Rights Program seeks to empower the marginalized through campaigning, networking, and solidarity work. Currently, NISEA is concerned with the conflict in Southern Thailand and is involved in creating spaces for civil society actors to have greater participation in promoting peaceful means to end violence. It also facilitates discussion and encourages suggestions with regular reports on national security issues published on its website.\n\nNonviolence in Action Program seeks to draw lessons and best practices to enhance capacities through education, training, and multi-media resource material development, as it believes that every individual and community has an inherent capacity to handle and prevent armed conflicts nonviolently.\n\nNonviolence_International\nInternational_Action_Network_on_Small_Arms\n"}
{"id": "3669127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3669127", "title": "Onyx (interception system)", "text": "Onyx (interception system)\n\nOnyx is a Swiss intelligence gathering system maintained by the Federal Intelligence Service - Nachrichtendienst des Bundes (NDB). The costs of the system are not public, but the amount of 100 million Swiss francs has been mentioned several times, in particular in 2000 by Werner Marti, SP deputy to the National Council (Switzerland). In March 2005, journalist Urs Paul Engeler estimated that the costs (hidden in various military construction budgets) reached 400 million CHF. The Onyx system was launched in 2000, originally under the name SATOS-3 (the SATOS 1 and 2 systems were started in 1992, in particular to intercept faxes), and was completed in late 2005.\n\nThe goal of the system is to monitor both civil and military communications, such as telephone, fax or Internet traffic, carried by satellite. Onyx uses lists of keywords to filter the intercepted content for information of interest, and the choice of keywords by the intelligence community must be approved by an independent commission. The system is not supposed to monitor internal communications; however, the monitoring of a communication between a person in Switzerland and someone in another country is allowed. The Swiss Federal Council has indicated that Onyx is not linked to other foreign systems such as ECHELON; according to the Council, the confusion and rumours about this issue are due to the sale by Swisscom to Verestar (now SES Americom) of the ground satellite communication station of Leuk (next to the Onyx site) in 2000. The use of the system is controlled by an independent control authority composed of members of the federal administration.\n\nActive sites include the following:\n\n\nOn 8 January 2006, the Swiss newspaper \"Sonntagsblick\" (Sunday edition of the \"Blick\" newspaper) published a secret report produced by the Swiss government using data intercepted by Onyx. The report described a fax sent by the Egyptian department of Foreign Affairs to the Egyptian Embassy in London, and described the existence of secret detention facilities (\"black sites\") run by the CIA in Eastern Europe. The Swiss government did not officially confirm the existence of the report, but started a military judiciary procedure for leakage of secret documents against the newspaper on 9 January 2006. While the authenticity of the fax was implicitly confirmed during the trial, the reporter and newspaper were cleared of all charges on 17 April 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6809616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6809616", "title": "Oxford Manifesto", "text": "Oxford Manifesto\n\nThe Oxford Manifesto, drawn up in April 1947 by representatives from 19 liberal political parties at Wadham College in Oxford, led by Salvador de Madariaga, is a document that describes the basic political principles of the Liberal International.\n\nFifty years on, in 1997, the Liberal International returned to Oxford and issued a supplement to the original manifesto, called \"The Liberal Agenda for the 21st century\", describing Liberal policies in greater detail. It was adopted by the 48th Congress of Liberal International, which was held on 27–30 November 1997 in the Oxford Town Hall.\n\n<poem style=\"border: 2px solid #d6d2c5; background-color: #f9f4e6; padding: 1em;\">\nWe, Liberals of nineteen countries assembled at Oxford at a time of disorder, poverty, famine and fear caused by two World Wars; \nConvinced that this condition of the world is largely due to the abandonment of liberal principles; \nAffirm our faith in this Declaration:\n\n1. Man is first and foremost a being endowed with the power of independent thought and action, and with the ability to distinguish right from wrong.\n2. Respect for the human person and for the family is the true basis of society.\n3. The State is only the instrument of the community; it should assume no power which conflicts with the fundamental rights of the citizens and with the conditions essential for a responsible and creative life, namely:\n4. These rights and conditions can be secured only by true democracy. True democracy is inseparable from political liberty and is based on the conscious, free and enlightened consent of the majority, expressed through a free and secret ballot, with due respect for the liberties and opinions of minorities.\n\n1. The suppression of economic freedom must lead to the disappearance of political freedom. We oppose such suppression, whether brought about by State ownership or control or by private monopolies, cartels and trusts. We admit State ownership only for those undertakings which are beyond the scope of private enterprise or in which competition no longer plays its part.\n2. The welfare of the community must prevail and must be safeguarded from the abuse of power by sectional interests.\n3. A continuous betterment of the conditions of employment, and of the housing and environment of the workers is essential. The rights, duties and interests of labour and capital are complementary; organised consultation and collaboration between employers and employed is vital to the well-being of industry.\n\nService is the necessary complement of freedom and every right involves a corresponding duty. If free institutions are to work effectively, every citizen must have a sense of moral responsibility towards his fellow men and take an active part in the affairs of the community.\n\nWar can be abolished and world peace and economic prosperity restored only if all nations fulfil the following conditions:\n\nWe call upon all men and women who are in general agreement with these ideals and principles to join us in an endeavour to win their acceptance throughout the world.\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "1579586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579586", "title": "Physics First", "text": "Physics First\n\nPhysics First is an educational program in the USA, that teaches a basic physics course in the ninth grade (usually 15-year-olds), rather than the biology course which is more standard in public schools. This course relies on the limited math skills that the students have from pre-algebra and algebra I. With these skills students study a broad subset of the introductory physics canon with an emphasis on topics which can be experienced kinesthetically or without deep mathematical reasoning. Furthermore, teaching physics first is better suited for English Language Learners, who would be overwhelmed by the substantial vocabulary requirements of Biology. \n\nPhysics First began as an organized movement among educators around 1990, and has been slowly catching on throughout the United States. The most prominent movement championing Physics First is Leon Lederman's ARISE (American Renaissance in Science Education). \n\nMany proponents of Physics First argue that turning this order around lays the foundations for better understanding of chemistry, which in turn will lead to more comprehension of biology. Due to the tangible nature of most introductory physics experiments, Physics First also lends itself well to an introduction to inquiry-based science education, where students are encouraged to probe the workings of the world in which they live.\n\nThe majority of high schools which have implemented \"physics first\" do so by way of offering two separate classes, at two separate levels: simple physics concepts in 9th grade, followed by more advanced physics courses in 11th or 12th grade. In schools with this curriculum, nearly all 9th grade students take a \"Physical Science\", or \"Introduction to Physics Concepts\" course. These courses focus on concepts that can be studied with skills from pre-algebra and algebra I. With these ideas in place, students then can be exposed to ideas with more physics related content in chemistry, and other science electives. After this, students are then encouraged to take an 11th or 12th grade course in physics, which does use more advanced math, including vectors, geometry, and more involved algebra.\n\nThere is a large overlap between the Physics First movement, and the movement towards teaching conceptual physics - teaching physics in a way that emphasizes a strong understanding of physical principles over problem-solving ability. Many Physics First programs use the popular textbook \"Conceptual Physics\" by Paul G. Hewitt.\n\nAmerican public schools traditionally teach biology in the first year of high school, chemistry in the second, and physics in the third. The belief is that this order is more accessible, largely because biology can be taught with less mathematics, and will do the most toward providing some scientific literacy for the largest number of students.\n\nIn addition, many scientists and educators argue that freshmen do not have an adequate background in mathematics to be able to fully comprehend a complete physics curriculum, and that therefore quality of a physics education is lost. While physics requires knowledge of vectors and some basic trigonometry, many students in the Physics First program take the course in conjunction with geometry. They suggest that instead students first take biology and chemistry which are less mathematics-intensive so that by the time they are in their junior year, students will be advanced enough in mathematics with either an algebra 2 or pre-calculus education to be able to fully grasp the concepts presented in physics. Some argue this even further, saying that at least calculus should be a prerequisite for physics.\n\nOthers point out that, for example, secondary school students will never study the advanced physics that underlies chemistry in the first place. “[I]nclined planes (frictionless or not) didn't come up in ... high school chemistry class ... and the same can be said for some of the chemistry that really makes sense of biological phenomena.” For physics to be relevant to a chemistry course, students have to develop a truly fundamental understanding of the concepts of energy, force, and matter, beyond the context of specific applications like the inclined plane.\n\n"}
{"id": "277684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277684", "title": "Piero Simondo", "text": "Piero Simondo\n\nPiero Simondo (born 25 August 1928) is an Italian artist born in Cosio di Arroscia, Liguria, Italy.\n\nIn Alba, Piedmont, Italy, with Asger Jorn and Giuseppe Pinot Gallizio he founded the \"Laboratory of immaginiste experiences\" as part of the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus (IMIB).\n\nHe edited \"Eristica\" the magazine published by IMIB and September 1956 he organised the \"First World-wide Conference of the Free Artists\", with Jorn, Gallizio and Elena Verrone. He married Verrone two years later. At the Cultural Union of Turin he helped put on a demonstration unitary urbanism in December 1956.\n\nIn the summer of 1957 he took a holiday in his house in Cosio d' Arroscia. Here, with Michèle Bernstein, Guy Debord, Pinot Gallizio, Asger Jorn, Walter Olmo, Ralph Rumney and Elena Verrone the Situationist International was founded on 28 July. Following a row with Debord, he left the organisation with Olmo and Verrone.\n\nIn 1962 he founded in Turin the CIRA (International Center for an Institute of Artistic Research) with the purpose to expand the proposals of the Alba Laboratory.\n\nFrom 1968 he continued with his own artistic activity.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1996 Simondo worked at the University of Turin where he organised experimental activities at the Institute of Pedagogy. He held the chair of Methodology and Didactics of the Audovisual Medium .\n\nPublications by Simondo include:\n"}
{"id": "6878204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6878204", "title": "Ralahine", "text": "Ralahine\n\nThe Ralahine Commune was a co-operative society founded in 1831 on the estate of John Vandeleur at Ralahine, Newmarket-on-Fergus, County Clare, Ireland. In an attempt to keep his tenants away from secret societies like the “Ribbonmen”, he brought a socialist named Edward Thomas Craig from England to advise him on the establishment of the commune, which came into existence on 7 November 1831. \n\nThe purpose of the commune was to acquire common capital or a common wealth, in order to protect its members against the evils of old age and sickness, to achieve the mental and moral improvement of its adult members and to educate their children. The commune consisted of twenty-two single adult men, seven married men and their wives, five single women, four orphan boys, three orphan girls and five infants under the age of nine. It was governed by a committee of nine people, elected twice a year. Under an agreement between Vandeleur and the commune, the estate and property were to remain his at a rent of seven hundred pounds per annum to the commune, until they could afford to buy it. The commune was paid two hundred pounds a year for stock and equipment.\n\nA list of rules were written up and each member of the commune had to live by them. Alcohol, tobacco and snuff were banned, as was gambling of any kind. The members had to work twelve hours a day in summer and from dawn to dusk in winter, with one hour break for dinner.\n\nInstead of money the workers were paid “labour notes” which they could spend in the co-operative store. In this way the commune would be more self-sufficient as the members would be buying goods they themselves had worked to produce. If they wished to spend money outside the commune the treasurer would change the labour notes into coin for them. The commune prospered for a time and 29 new members joined. New machinery was bought and the first mowing machine in Ireland was introduced by the Ralahine Commune.\n\nAfter two years however, it collapsed. Vandeleur’s reckless lifestyle and his gambling habit finally brought an end to the experiment. After losing all his possessions through gambling the members of the commune were helpless to save themselves. The agreement they had signed with Vandeleur regarding his possession of the land meant that the commune was seized and they were duly evicted. The members of the commune met for the last time on 23 November 1833 and placed on record a declaration of “the contentment, peace and happiness they had experienced for two years under the arrangements introduced by Mr. Vandeleur and Mr. Craig and which through no fault of the Association was now at an end”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55707024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55707024", "title": "Revolutionary Proletarian Army", "text": "Revolutionary Proletarian Army\n\nThe Revolutionary Proletarian Army, also known by the acronym RPA, was the military wing of the Rebolusyonaryong Partido ng Manggagawà ng Pilipinas (RPM-P), a communist party that split from the Communist Party of the Philippines.\n\nThe \"Rebolusyonaryong Partido ng Manggagawà ng Pilipinas\" (\"Revolutionary Workers' Party of the Philippines\") was established after the Negros Regional Party Committee of the New People's Army broke away from the Communist Party of the Philippines as a result of an ideological split in 1996. It organized its military arm two months after the split, calling it the Revolutionary Proletarian Army. The Metro Manila-based Alex Boncayao Brigade, which also broke away from the New People's Army, allied itself with the RPA the year after, forming the Revolutionary Proletarian Army - Alex Boncayao Brigade (RPA-ABB).\n\nThe Revolutionary Proletarian Army - Alex Boncayao Brigade engaged in peace negotiations brokered by Eduardo Cojuangco Jr. with the government of Joseph Estrada in 1999; a truce was established in December 2000. This development prompted a vehement condemnation from Filemon Lagman, who once controlled the Alex Boncayao Brigade; in a press release he branded Arturo Tabara of the RPA and Nilo dela Cruz, the head of the ABB as \"scoundrels masquerading as revolutionaries\". By 2003, relations between the RPA-ABB and the Communist Party of the Philippines had deteriorated to the point where the New People's Army, the CPP's military wing began launching attacks on the RPA-ABB. Arturo Tabara, RPM-P chairman, was assassinated in 2004 in Manila.\n\nIn 2007 an apparent split occurred between two factions within the RPA-ABB. Nilo dela Cruz of the Alex Boncayao Brigade was expelled by the faction headed by Stephen Paduano and Veronica Tabara, Arturo Tabara's wife. Dela Cruz reciprocated the action, expelling Paduano. Both factions of the RPA-ABB carried on using the same name. \n\nIn April 2013, the RPA-ABB was reported to have changed its name to \"Kapatiran para sa Progresong Panlipunan\" (\"Brotherhood for Social Progress\") and stated that it had renounced violence as a method of advancing its cause. Paduano resigned as national commander of the RPA-ABB and ran for Congress during the 2013 Philippine general election under the \"Abang Lingkod\" party-list. He took his oath of office in May 2014. The National Democratic Front of the Philippines issued a statement condemning his election into the Congress of the Philippines.\n\nAs of 2016, the peace deal signed by the RPA-ABB with the Estrada administration remains to be fully implemented. Nilo dela Cruz and a group of former RPA-ABB members calling themselves \"Democratic Front for Filipinism\" issued a statement supporting Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs, and his \"revolution against the oligarchs and the exploiters of the Filipino masses\".\n"}
{"id": "5148990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148990", "title": "Robert III of Loritello", "text": "Robert III of Loritello\n\nRobert of Bassunvilla (also Basunvilla and Bassonville) (died 15 September 1182) was the count of Conversano (from 1138) and Loritello (from 1154, as Robert III). His family had a long history in Vassonville, near Dieppe.\n\nRobert (II) was the son of Robert I of Bassunvilla, who had been granted Conversano by Roger II. Robert inherited this possession on his father's death. Roger II had cause later to confiscate the county of Loritello from William, his own relative. On his deathbed, he asked his son William I to appoint Robert count of Loritello, a quasi-autonomous post. Soon however, he was implicated (truly or falsely) in rebellion and fled first to the Holy Roman imperial court of Frederick Barbarossa and then the Byzantine imperial court of Manuel I Comnenus. He may have laid claim to the throne, on the basis of a forged will. He had the assistance of John Ducas when he returned to lead the revolt of 1155–1156, but the Byzantine general Michael Palaeologus died at Bari and William defeated the imperial troops.\n\nBy the Treaty of Benevento of 1156, Pope Adrian IV guaranteed Robert's right to leave the kingdom peacefully, but he renewed instead his designs on the land of the diocese of Penne. In 1157 he was encouraged in his rebellious efforts by a new emissary of Manuel I. This was Alexius Axuch, the son of Manuel's chief advisor John Axuch. Though his constable, Richard of Mandra, was captured, he evaded the royal army and continued in defiance of William I's authority. In 1161, he conquered much territory to the south. William responded by chasing him from Taranto and almost razing Salerno. In 1163, however, he was forced to flee again to Barbarossa.\n\nIn 1167, he was with the army of Rainald of Dassel at the Battle of Monte Porzio on 29 May, when a great Roman army was defeated.\n\nIn 1169, Margaret of Navarre, regent of William II and widow of William I, and her council of advisors restored Robert to all his former possessions. His widow Adelisa, daughter of Roger II, inherited Conversano.\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "33153791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33153791", "title": "Royal Patriotic Society", "text": "Royal Patriotic Society\n\nThe Royal Patriotic Society () is a Swedish royal society founded in 1772 in Stockholm, Sweden, by royal charter of King Gustav III of Sweden, with the aim of improving Sweden's economy, particularly agriculture, mining and the textile industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "43069355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43069355", "title": "Rubicon speech", "text": "Rubicon speech\n\nThe Rubicon speech was delivered by South African President P. W. Botha on the evening of 15 August 1985 in Durban. The world was anticipating Botha to announce major reforms in his government including abolishing the apartheid system and the release of Nelson Mandela. However, the speech Botha actually delivered at the time did none of this.\nAfter a long period of isolation and strained diplomatic relations between South Africa and the international community, the National Party decided to hold a meeting to bring about reforms in the government. However, the meeting was shrouded in secrecy and mystery, and Botha was reported to have kept quiet and to have not participated even though he was present. This was taken as a sign that he was approving of the proposed changes. There were also reports that Botha did not participate due to his doctor's orders to avoid emotional outburst and not to engage in discussions that might upset him. At the final draft of the original agreed speech, which would be named the \"Prog speech\" (\"Prog\" being short for the Progressive Federal Party, then in opposition), and which would have recognized black human dignity, eradicated all forms of discrimination, and created equal opportunities, the nature of the speech, in conjunction with the news that a US bank was threatening to call in its loan, made Botha feel that he was being forced to capitulate to the revolutionary movements. Botha, whose fierce will had earned him the name \"Die Groot Krokodil\" (The Great Crocodile), simply refused and said he was not going to make that speech but was going to draft his own.\nDue to its anticipation and publicity by different international media houses, the speech was delivered live to a worldwide audience of over 200 million. Botha clearly stated that he was not willing to change his position regarding the apartheid system and that Nelson Mandela would not be released from prison.\nThe speech had serious ripple effects to the economy of South Africa and it also caused South Africa to be even more isolated by the international community. The rand fell drastically against major currencies and the economy continued to shrink rapidly in growth until after the democratic handover of power a decade later.\n\n"}
{"id": "26182503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26182503", "title": "Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development (Mexico)", "text": "Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development (Mexico)\n\nThe Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development (; SADER) is Mexico's agriculture ministry. The current secretary is Víctor Manuel Villalobos Arámbula.\n\nThe secretariat traces its roots to 1917, when it was established as the \"Secretaría de Agricultura y Fomento\" (Secretariat of Agriculture and Development). The name changed in 1946 to \"Secretaría de Agricultura y Ganadería\" (Secretariat of Agriculture and Ranching), in 1976 to \"Secretaría de Agricultura y Recursos Hidráulicos\" (Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources), and again in 1994 to \"Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y Desarrollo Rural\" (Secretariat of Agriculture, Ranching and Rural Development).\nIn 2000, the name changed to the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food (, SAGARPA).\n\nDuring the presidency of Enrique Peña Nieto, Enrique Martínez y Martínez served as the initial secretary. He left the post in 2015 to become Mexico's ambassador to Cuba and was replaced by José Eduardo Calzada Rovirosa, the former Governor of Querétaro. Baltazar Hinojosa Ochoa finished out the Peña Nieto sexenio as the head of SAGARPA.\n\nAs part of changes coinciding with the presidency of Andrés Manuel López Obrador, SAGARPA became SADER on December 1, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "31858887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31858887", "title": "Social conservatism in the United States", "text": "Social conservatism in the United States\n\nSocial conservatism in the United States is a political ideology focused on the preservation of traditional values and beliefs, hearkening back to values believed to be present at the American founding. It focuses on a concern with moral and social values which proponents of the ideology see as degraded in modern society by social democracy and liberalism. Social conservatism, while defined differently by many scholars, is often conflated with the Christian right. Many religious conservatives push for a focus on Judeo-Christian traditions as a guiding force for the country on social issues, leading them to be considered social conservatives. Social conservatives are concerned with many social issues such as abortion, sex education, the equal rights amendment, school prayer, same-sex marriage, and many others. They oppose many of the cultural changes brought on by the culture wars and the sexual revolution. Summarily, this branch of conservatism is concerned with moral and social issues within the United States and uses tradition, strict morals, and religion as solutions for these problems.\n\nSocial conservatives are accommodationists and hold that the Establishment Clause solely prevents the establishment of a state Church, not public acknowledgements of God nor \"developing policies that encourage general religious beliefs that do not favor a particular sect and are consistent with the secular government's goals.\"\n\nSocial conservatives are generally \"anti-abortion\" (opposed to abortion on moral grounds) rather than \"pro-life\" (belief in the dignity of all human life from conception to natural death). These beliefs are often based on the argument of \"fetal personhood\". Personhood arguments focus on giving a fetus the status of a person which then entitles them to the right to life. Social conservatives often support the repeal of \"Roe v. Wade\".\n\nSocial conservatives are against the legalization of same-sex marriage, supporting instead laws such as the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) which defined marriage as a union between a man and a woman. They oppose same-sex marriage over concerns on parenting, religious concerns, concerns of continued changes to the definition of marriage, and concerns about tradition. Conservatives are often opposed to LGBT rights, and therefore are concerned with \"normalizing\" same-sex relationships through the institution of marriage. Some republicans support Same-Sex Marriage, Equal Rights, and non-discrimination laws, these republicans are known as the Log Cabin Republicans.\n\nSocial conservatives concerned with the moral education and possibly age-inappropriate information children receive from sex education classes in public schools. They prefer abstinence-only sex education, as opposed to comprehensive sex education. This view stems from strong beliefs in parental authority and strict moral values.\n\n1960s\n\nThis time period saw a surge in grassroots conservative activism in response to the successes of liberal politics in changing American culture. Democrats continued to put forward increasingly liberal policy ideas that ran counter to the beliefs of many conservative Americans, such as the New Deal, which mobilized them to protect their interests. Conservatives supported radical conservative candidates such as Barry Goldwater in the 1964 Republican primary. A rise of the \"Radical Right\" with social conservatives who believed in a strict moral code and religious authority.\n\n1970s\n\nHistorians have pointed to the 1970s as a turning point where \"a vast shift toward social and political conservatism\" really began. Meg Jacobs and Julian Zelizer argue that this period saw an increase an activism and concern with personal and social issues which lead to a growth of conservatism. There are multiple theories on the growth of conservatism in this period. Some of the possible reasons or combination of reasons for this phenomenon are the backlash from the Vietnam war, the expanded conversation on civil rights, the economic changes in the United States, and the overall changes in culture in this period. Some scholars refer to social conservatism and renewed conservative grassroots activism as a reaction to the counterculture and cultural upheaval of the 1960s–1970s. A notable event regarding social policy in the 1970s was the passage of Roe v. Wade in 1973 which recognized a legal right to Abortion.\n\n1980s\n\nRonald Reagan, a prominent and well-supported conservative republican, exemplifies the rise of conservatives in mainstream politics. Reagan appealed to conservatives who felt marginalized by the growing liberalization of American culture, calling on \"the forgotten man\" or Moral majority. After the tumultuous period of political and cultural changes in the 1960s–70s, Reagan's moderate traditionalism appeared as a source of needed stability for many Americans.\n\n1990s\n\nMajor conservative welfare reform took place in the 1990s. In 1996 the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act (PRWORA) was passed narrowing the benefits of welfare recipients and encouraging work. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) also came into effect during this period, limiting the time benefits can be received.\n\n2000s\n\nSocial conservatives again became powerful in American politics in 2001 with the election of socially conservative President George W. Bush. It has been argued that many of Bush's policy decisions were strongly influenced by his religious beliefs. During his time in office Bush would pass influential conservative social policies such as the Defense of Marriage Act and support an increase in funding of Abstinence-Only Education. While President Bush did not strongly promote pro-life policies, he supported the movement through an emphasis on parental rights and focus on strict regulation of taxpayer funding.\n\nIn American politics, the Republican Party is the largest political party with some socially conservative ideals incorporated into its platform. Social conservatives predominantly support the Republican Party, although there are also socially conservative Democrats who break ranks with the party platform. Despite this, there have been instances where the Republican Party's nominee has been considered too socially progressive by social conservatives. This has led to the support of third party candidates from parties such as the Constitution Party, whose philosophies more closely parallel that of social conservatism. While many social conservatives see third parties as a viable option in such a situation, some high-profile social conservatives see the excessive support of them as dangerous. This fear arises from the possibility of vote splitting. Social conservatives, like any other interest-group, usually must find a balance between pragmatic electability and ideological principles when supporting candidates.\n\nCommentator Randall Hoven of \"The American Thinker\" has remarked, \"Using the \"National Journal\"s ratings of Senators in 2007, the correlation coefficient between \"economic\" scores and \"social\" scores is 90%. That means they almost always go together; financial conservatives are almost always social conservatives and \"vice versa\"\".\n\nThe American Tea Party movement, despite being mostly made up of stringent social conservatives, is economically conservative but generally avoids social conservative issues. The Tea Party Patriots is officially neutral on social conservatism. While social conservatism emphasizes faith and family as core values, the Tea Party Patriots identifies its \"Core Values\" as \"Fiscal Responsibility, Constitutionally Limited Government, Free Markets.\" Some branches are opposed to social conservatism. However, independent polls have repeatedly shown that Tea Party supporters are nearly indistinguishable in their views from traditional Republican social conservatives, despite their choice to emphasize economic issues. While not allying itself exclusively with the Christian conservative movement, members of the Tea Party movement identify with the Christian conservative movement more strongly than the general American populace (44% compared to 34% of the population), yet some social conservative leaders have denounced it for its \"libertarian\" and \"irreligious\" views. Nearly 80% of those in the Tea Party movement are members of the Republican party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2496746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2496746", "title": "Socialist Sunday School", "text": "Socialist Sunday School\n\nSocialist Sunday Schools (SSS) were set up as an alternative to Christian Sunday Schools in the United Kingdom. They arose in response to a feeling as to the inadequacy of the orthodox Sunday Schools as a training ground for the children of socialists and of the need for some organised and systematic method of presenting the socialist point of view and of teaching the ideals and principles of socialism to the children, youths and maidens in the country.\n\nIn the United States of America a radical Sunday School movement linked to the German-American socialist movement emerged in New York and Chicago in the 1880s and again on a broader scale as part of the Modern School Movement during the first decade of the 20th Century. An even larger network of American Socialist Sunday Schools, closely paralleling the British movement, was launched by members of the Socialist Party of America during the first two decades of the 20th Century.\n\nThe earliest use of secular Sunday Schools by the radical movement began in Great Britain in the early 1830s, when adherents of Robert Owen and Chartism opened Sunday training schools for their children. These schools continued to operate until sometime in the decade of the 1850s, fizzling out with the decline of the early radical movement.\n\nFor a generation, no such schools existed in Great Britain. Only in 1886 did Socialist Sunday Schools begin to reemerge in Great Britain. The institution was popularized by Mary Gray in 1892, a member of the Social Democratic Federation, who ran a soup kitchen for the children of the dock strike. Her aim, on realising they had little or no education, was to influence and educate them and make them aware of their socialist responsibilities and provide what was lacking in their day schools. She started the first Sunday with only one other besides her own two children but twenty years later there were approximately one hundred and twenty schools throughout the country, twenty of them being in London itself.\n\nIn 1894, another Socialist Sunday School was created by trade unionist Tom Anderson. By 1912 there were over 200 Socialist Sunday Schools throughout Britain. In their early days they encountered opposition from local authorities and politicians, who argued that Socialist Sunday Schools were subverting the minds of young people with political and anti-religious doctrines and teachings.\n\nA national movement, the National Council of British Socialist Sunday Schools Union, formed in 1909, however, traces its origin to a school opened in Glasgow by Caroline Martyn and Archie McArthur. It was established as a protest against, and an alternative to, the perceived middle-class bias and assumptions of the regular churches. Its aims were to help the schools in their teaching of Socialism. The schools were grouped in District Unions and for the first ten years were affiliated to the Council. However, in 1920 the constitution was amended to allow direct school affiliation which meant there was wide representation at the Annual Conference. The manual was prepared chiefly for the use of teachers. It contains specimen lessons and technique help to the teachers together with suggested reading for socialist education.\n\nIt was the leadership's view that public education should be secular and Socialist Sunday Schools were for purely educational bodies and therefore the hymns did not have theological tendencies or the Christian dogma which was preached in religious churches of the day. They worked in close harmony with the Labour Movement and were concerned with the spiritual and social objective of the human race with regard to daily life and conduct.\n\nThe Socialist Sunday Schools along with the Labour Church were impeded by a lack of their own premises and met objections to hiring of suitable halls to the extent that in 1907 London County Council evicted five branches out of hired school buildings. A massive demonstration in Trafalgar Square ensued addressed by Margaret McMillan who, with her sister, was a Christian socialist and campaigned for better education and health for poor children. A few years later the Springburn branch met for many years in the Labour Party's Unity Hall in Ayr Street for the same reason.\n\nLater in 1926 Fulham Council refused permission on Sundays because it was of a 'non-theological' character. It was becoming apparent that the reason that the Socialist Sunday Schools were encountering so much opposition was because they were 'being seen as subversive and as poisoning the minds of the young people of the country with their political and anti-religious doctrines and teachings' and there were those who tried to discredit the Schools by accusations of blasphemy and revolutionary teachings.\n\n\"The Young Socialist\" was a monthly periodical published by the National Council and was first issued in Glasgow in 1901 and in the September 1910 edition the editor wrote that the true socialist, whatever, if any, denomination he belonged to, wanted fellowship, a kingdom of love and happiness, not hell. The Socialist Sunday Schools were organised with this theory as a basis and although there was no formulated set of rules to be followed there were three main guidelines of ethics, morality, brotherly love and social obligation.\n\n\nThere were also 'ten commandments' to be followed which were printed in some of the editions of the hymn book.\n\n\nThe earliest known Socialist Sunday Schools (SSS) in the United States of America was launched on March 1, 1880 in New York City by Branch 14 of the Socialist Labor Party of America. Some 30 students participated at the time of the school's launch, which was lauded in the daily \"New Yorker Volkszeitung\" as an institution of great benefit to the entire German working-class neighborhood located on Manhattan's East Side. The female members of Branch 14 were instrumental in the financial support of the school, which over the next two years conducted a series of concerts, performances, and fundraising social events.\n\nOther early American Socialist Sunday Schools were launched in the city of Chicago during the last years of the 1880s. Four such schools were identified by police officials at the time and declared by the authorities to be of \"Socialistic and Anarchistic origin.\" Classes were conducted in German — the main language of the immigrant-dominated American socialist movement of the day — and about 500 children are believed to have attended in all.\n\nWith the memory of the Haymarket Affair still fresh, these Sunday Schools were characterized by police official Michael J. Schaack as \"the most conspicuous feature of the propaganda of the Internationale in Chicago today\" and condemned for their \"sowing in the minds of innocent children the seeds of atheism, discontent, and lawlessness.\"\n\nOne Chicago SSS, the North Side Sunday School, met each week for one hour of instruction by a member of the local Turn Verein, during which the ills of the capitalist system and the proposed alternative of socialism were expounded. An 1888 front page story in the \"Chicago Tribune\" plaintively editorialized that under the slogan \"no religion and no church\" children were being subjected to \"an inculcation of socialistic views at an age particularly impressionable.\" An annual summer picnic and outing was held by the school in conjunction with the Turn Verein, attended by several hundred children ranging in age from 3 to 16.\n\nSocialist Sunday Schools also seem to have existed in a few other major metropolitan areas, including a SSS started in Philadelphia in the Fall of 1888, with 6 teachers and about 150 pupils present for the launch.\n\nAdditional Sunday Schools linked to the organized anarchist movement sprouted up in various American urban centers during the first decade of the 1900s, springing primarily from the so-called Modern School movement developed by the Catalan anarchist Francisco Ferrer in 1901. The Modern Schools were intended to be both instruments for self-development and social change and taught the values of cooperation, sympathy for the downtrodden, collective solidarity, anti-militarism, anti-capitalism, and opposition to the power of the centralized state. About 22 such schools were established. Although originally intended to be expanded and transformed into regular day schools, most of these radical \"Modern Schools\" proved to be short-lived.\n\nThe primary Socialist Sunday School movement in the United States was that connected with the country's largest socialist organization, the Socialist Party of America (SPA). Approximately 100 Socialist Sunday Schools (SSS) were established by the SPA during the first two decades of the 20th Century. These institutions were intended to supplement the general education obtained by working class children in the publicly owned school system of the country. Socialist Sunday Schools of the SPA were organized in no fewer than 64 cities and towns spread across 20 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nWhile schools associated with the Socialist Party were established in such Midwestern cities as Chicago and Omaha, Nebraska, the center of greatest activity was New York City and the neighboring cities of Southern New Jersey. According to one scholar the impetus for these schools came from the Workmen's Circle (Arbeiter Ring), a Yiddish-language Socialist fraternal benefit society. The publishers of the Socialist \"New Yorker Volkszeitung\" were quick to follow, launching a periodical to aid the effort in December 1908 called \"The Little Socialist Magazine for Boys and Girls.\" By 1911 some 14 Socialist Sunday Schools were in existence in the New York metropolitan area.\n\nThe first Socialist Sunday School on the Pacific coast of the United States was established in Oakland, California early in 1906. Coordinated by Socialist Party of California activist H.H. Lilienthal, more than 100 children were enrolled at the organization's January 28 launch, which was held at the headquarters facility of Local Oakland.\n\nWhile precise enrollment numbers are not available, one contemporary estimated in the spring of 1911 that some 2,000 children participated in English-language Socialist Sunday Schools, supplanted by others in schools for children who spoke German, Latvian, Yiddish, and other languages of the immigrant community.\n\nAmong the leaders of the Socialist Party's effort to develop Socialist Sunday Schools was Bertha Mailly, for a time Secretary of the New York State Committee, who encouraged prospective SSS teachers to read John Dewey's \"School and Society\" to provide a conceptual basis for their work. During the second decade of the 20th Century the Socialist Party's \"Young People's Department,\" headed by William Kruse, published an organizing manual for party locals seeking to establish Socialist Sunday Schools, including an extensive proposed list of books for SSS libraries.\n\nThe Socialist education movement in America was closely connected with certain of the foreign language federations of the SPA, which taught children in their native tongue. Known to have organized Socialist Sunday Schools during this period were the Finnish Socialist Federation, the Ukrainian Socialist Federation, the Hungarian Socialist Federation, and the Lettish Socialist Federation.\n\nIn tandem with the Socialist Party of America's network of Sunday Schools there existed a system of radical Sunday Schools conducted by the Workmen's Circle \"(Arbeiter Ring),\" a predominantly Yiddish language socialist mutual benefit organization. Founded in 1892, the Workmen's Circle was reorganized in 1901 and had grown to a membership of 6,700 by 1905. By 1924 the Workmen's Circle was considerably larger than the declining Socialist Party, counting a membership of 85,000 in nearly 700 branches spread across 38 states and Canada.\n\nThe Workmen's Circle established an educational bureau of its own in 1908 and sponsored programs for both adults and children, including some specifically designated as \"Socialist Sunday Schools.\" Some of these Workmen's Circle schools eventually allied themselves with the closely related network of Socialist Party schools, while others retained an independent affiliation with the Jewish socialist organization which had pioneered them.\n\nThe primary publication of the Socialist Party's youth movement was a monthly magazine called \"Young Socialist's Magazine,\" established in 1908. Although it would be incorrect to say that the activities of the British Socialist Sunday Schools were the sole influence upon the American movement, British publications and experiences were closely followed by American SSS activists. American SSS workers traveled to Britain to observe the activities of the thriving school movement there, and reported their findings upon their return.\n\nAccording to Kenneth Teitelbaum, a scholar of the Socialist youth education movement, Socialist schools for children also existed in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Hungary, Belgium, and Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30844503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30844503", "title": "Sodium bisulfite", "text": "Sodium bisulfite\n\nSodium bisulfite (or sodium bisulphite, sodium hydrogen sulfite) is a chemical compound with the chemical formula NaHSO. Sodium bisulfite is a food additive with E number E222. This salt of bisulfite can be prepared by bubbling sulfur dioxide in a solution of sodium carbonate in water. Sodium bisulfite in contact with chlorine bleach (aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite) will generate heat and form sodium bisulfate and sodium chloride.\n\nSodium bisulfite can be prepared by bubbling excess sulfur dioxide through a solution of suitable base, such as sodium hydroxide or sodium bicarbonate.\n\nSodium bisulfite is a weakly acidic species with a p\"K\" of 6.97. Its conjugate base is the sulfite ion, SO:\n\nThe theoretical fully protonated species is sulfurous acid (HSO); however this does not exist in solution and treatment of sodium bisulfite with acids will result in decomposition with telltale effervescence of sulfur dioxide, e.g.,\n\nIn organic chemistry sodium bisulfite has several applications. It forms a bisulfite adduct with aldehyde groups and with certain cyclic ketones to give a sulfonic acid.\n\nThis reaction is useful for purification procedures. Contaminated aldehydes in a solution precipitate as the bisulfite adduct which can be isolated by filtration. The reverse reaction takes place in presence of a base such as sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydroxide and the bisulfite is liberated as sulfur dioxide.\n\nExamples of such procedures are described for benzaldehyde, 2-tetralone, citral, the ethyl ester of pyruvic acid and glyoxal. In the ring-expansion reaction of cyclohexanone with diazald, the bisulfite reaction is reported to be able to differentiate between the primary reaction product cycloheptanone and the main contaminant cyclooctanone.\n\nThe other main use of sodium bisulfite is as a mild reducing agent in organic synthesis in particular in purification procedures. It can efficiently remove traces or excess amounts of chlorine, bromine, iodine, hypochlorite salts, osmate esters, chromium trioxide and potassium permanganate.\n\nA third use of sodium bisulfite is as a decoloration agent in purification procedures because it can reduce strongly coloured oxidizing agents, conjugated alkenes and carbonyl compounds.\n\nSodium bisulfite is also the key ingredient in the Bucherer reaction. In this reaction an aromatic hydroxyl group is replaced by an aromatic amine group and vice versa because it is a reversible reaction. The first step in this reaction is an addition reaction of sodium bisulfite to an aromatic double bond. The Bucherer carbazole synthesis is a related organic reaction that uses sodium bisulfite as a reagent.\n\nWhile the related compound, sodium metabisulfite, is used in almost all commercial wines to prevent oxidation and preserve flavor, sodium bisulfite is sold by some home winemaking suppliers for the same purpose. In fruit canning, sodium bisulfite is used to prevent browning (caused by oxidation) and to kill microbes.\n\nIn the case of wine making, sodium bisulfite releases sulfur dioxide gas when added to water or products containing water. The sulfur dioxide kills yeasts, fungi, and bacteria in the grape juice before fermentation. When the sulfur dioxide levels have subsided (about 24 hours), fresh yeast is added for fermentation.\n\nIt is later added to bottled wine to prevent the formation of vinegar if bacteria are present, and to protect the color, aroma and flavor of the wine from oxidation, which causes browning and other chemical changes. The sulfur dioxide quickly reacts with oxidation by-products and prevents them from causing further deterioration.\n\nSodium bisulfite is also added to leafy green vegetables in salad bars and elsewhere, to preserve apparent freshness, under names like LeafGreen. The concentration is sometimes high enough to cause allergic reactions.\n\nOn July 8, 1986, sodium bisulfite was banned from use by the FDA on fresh fruits and vegetables in the United States following the deaths of 13 people and many illnesses, mainly among asthmatics.\n\nSodium bisulfite is used in the analysis of the methylation status of cytosines in DNA.\n\nIn this technique, sodium bisulfite deaminates cytosine into uracil, but does not affect 5-methylcytosine, a methylated form of cytosine with a methyl group attached to carbon 5.\n\nWhen the bisulfite-treated DNA is amplified via polymerase chain reaction, the uracil is amplified as thymine and the methylated cytosines are amplified as cytosine. DNA sequencing techniques are then used to read the sequence of the bisulfite-treated DNA. Those cytosines that are read as cytosines after sequencing represent methylated cytosines, while those that are read as thymines represent unmethylated cytosines in the genomic DNA.\n\nSodium bisulfite is a common reducing agent in the chemical industry, as it readily reacts with dissolved oxygen:\nIt is usually added to large piping systems to prevent oxidative corrosion. In biochemical engineering applications, it is helpful to maintain anaerobic conditions within a reactor.\nSodium bisulfite should not be confused with sodium bisulfate which is used as a pH lowering chemical for swimming pools.\n\nIn drinking water treatment, sodium bisulfite is often added after super chlorination, to reduce the residual chlorine before discharging to the service reservoir.\n\nIn wastewater treatment, sodium bisulfite is often added following disinfection with chlorine prior to discharging the effluent to the receiving water. Residual chlorine can have a negative impact on aquatic life.\n\nIn steam boilers, sodium bisulfite has been a reliable oxygen scavenger in boiler feedwater for approximately 60 years. This compound is characterized as having fast reaction times, low use-cost, years of proven performance, availability. Sodium bisulfite when used in steam boilers has FDA and USDA approvals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798512", "title": "SuperPower 2", "text": "SuperPower 2\n\nSuperPower 2 is a real-time strategy wargame developed by Canadian based GolemLabs and published by DreamCatcher Interactive in 2004, following \"SuperPower\". It was released between October 11 and November 19, 2004 in North America and Europe, respectively. On April 18, 2014, Nordic Games officially released \"SuperPower 2\" on the Steam Store.\n\nPlayers may join a game as any of the 193 nations recognized by the United Nations at the time of its development. All standard games start in the year 2001, with the player taking control of their nation. They then must work toward their predefined goals, such as achieving world peace, balancing your nation's resources, or conquering the world, or, if they did not set any predefined goals, they have the opportunity to work toward developing their nation's infrastructure, increasing their military strength through new unit designs and development, and encouraging the economic and cultural growth of their nation.\n\nAny nation not controlled by a player is considered an AI nation. If there are predefined objectives, the player will attempt to reach this objective to win the game. The AI will have their own objectives, which they will try to reach as well. If and when the player and the AI have conflicting goals, it is up to the player, and occasionally the AI, to decide if diplomacy is the way to go, or if war is the answer to their problems.\n\nBecause \"SuperPower 2\" is a real-time game, there is no preset end date. This means that a single game can, in theory, run indefinitely.\n\n\"SuperPower 2\" was released in English, French, German, Spanish, Korean, Chinese and Russian.\n\n\nPolitical sphere consists of all political activity, domestic and international, of the selected nation. This sphere allows players to see (and modify if own nation is selected) internal laws, government type, and diplomatic agreements.\n\nThe Military sphere consists of all military and covert operations. This sphere allows players to buy, sell, build, train, deploy, disband a variety of military units. It also allows players to train intelligence cells and conduct covert warfare. In addition, strategic warfare is controlled from this sphere.\n\nStrategic warfare consists of nuclear missiles being launched from land based locations, or from submarines. Nuclear warfare is devastating for both the attacker and the victim. When a nuclear missile is launched and detonates in another nation, relations with nations around the world decline, depending on the importance of the nation attacked. The attacker's nation also becomes less stable, increasing chances of a revolution.\n\nThe economic sphere consists of all financial activity. From this sphere player can view (and control if the selected nation is the same as the player's) income and expenses as well as trade and taxes. Players can set national interest rates, income tax levels, tariffs, and spending levels in this sphere. Players can also nationalize or privatize portions of their economy. This is also where the \"Autarky\" bug does most damage because in the game trade is almost always the most income generating source and when the bug sets in, this well of wealth inevitably dries up when no other nations buy your goods. However, playing country with high levels of raw resources like South Africa with precious metals, seems to not fall victim to the bug as quickly as countries relying on services and agriculture. Also, by invading nearby countries followed by annexation and high levels of taxes can also stave off autarky. At this point however, convincing the rest of the world not to invade is a bigger problem.\n\nAlthough slightly improved over the original \"SuperPower\", the sequel received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\nMany critics referred to the game as highly ambitious but critically flawed. One of the most positive reviews, from GameZone, said that \"The number of options, the good graphics for the globe and almost limitless gameplay adds up a game that is worthy of United Nations attention.\"\n\nHowever, many high-profile gaming publications panned the game, with common criticisms including frequent crashes, a poorly designed user interface, features that were either not implemented or apparently ineffective, and frequent implausible, nonsensical, and unexplained events occurring during the game (such as Poland declaring war on Burkina Faso for unclear reasons). A reviewer for GameSpy described \"SuperPower 2\" as \"a bunch of pointless hand-waving in a half-hearted attempt to pawn off a ponderous spreadsheet as a game\", also stating that \"...because the game is so devoid of personality, it's not even engaging as a way of experimenting with nightmare scenarios. There's nothing satisfying about taking control of the U.S. and changing it to a military dictatorship without freedom of speech or women's suffrage, only to see your political standing inch to the right and maybe your approval rating dip for a while.\" IGN was also critical of the game, giving it a score of 4.5 out of 10 and stating, among other things, that \"The art of international war itself is conducted here according to principles that would make Sun Tzu burn his book and restart life as a caterer.\" The game also features plenty of mods to choose from which change and edit the game play to specific real time or fictional settings.\n\nAfter nearly 10 years from the original release date, the game was released on the PC game distribution platform Steam on April 18, 2014, after a successful Steam Greenlight campaign. The Steam version features updated code and patches for bugs that were long neglected in the older version. However, this version also came with its share of problems, such as fullscreen mode not being an option, and the updated code breaking user-made modifications from the older version. The former was fixed however. Steam achievements were also added, as well as a new authentication system and server browser, which replaced GameSpy, its former server browser service that discontinued the game earlier in the year.\n\nRemastered DRM-free version of the game was released on the PC game distribution platform GOG.com on August 13, 2015 with a 4 day -50% launch discount. Game is sold with additional manual, design document, concept arts and team photographs. Much like Steam version it lacked full screen mode. Remastering included support for widescreen resolutions, new multiplayer matchmaking with modified multiplayer user interface, and an updated source code to offer support for modern operating systems. Initial reviews were mixed.\n\nAfter playing for a long period (the exact amount varies from game to game), a bug called Autarky sets in. The Autarky bug will always happen if the game is going on for a long period. It makes it nearly impossible for a nation to trade because everyone has a surplus of many of the items they trade. This causes nations to begin to lose money, since they can no longer make money from trade. While in most cases the bug eventually occurs, the use of extensive measures within player controlled countries- such as explosive population growth manipulation, severe limiting of human development and minimal infrastructures and telecommunications development- can maintain a permanent, large, and increasing resource deficit, which results in permanent importing for the player country, and massive export growth for virtually all other countries. With extreme population manipulation through the building and canceling of large numbers of soldiers while paused, it is possible to sustain a pan-global computer nation export economy with one underdeveloped, vastly overpopulated nation.\n\nThere are several patches made by the modding community fixing bugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "25513219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25513219", "title": "Telangana movement", "text": "Telangana movement\n\nThe Telangana movement refers to a movement for the creation of a new state, Telangana, from the pre-existing state of Andhra Pradesh in India. The new state corresponds to the Telugu-speaking portions of the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad. After several years of protest and agitation, the central government, under the United Progressive Alliance, decided to bifurcate the existing Andhra Pradesh state and on 7 February 2014, the Union Cabinet unilaterally cleared the bill for the creation of Telangana. Lasting for almost a decade, this has been one of the most longlasting movements in South India. On 18 February 2014, the Lok Sabha passed the bill with a voice vote. Subsequently, the bill was passed by Rajya Sabha two days later, on 20 February. As per the bill, Hyderabad would be the capital of Telangana, while the city would also remain the capital of residual state of Andhra Pradesh for no more than ten years. On 2 June 2014, Telangana was created.\n\nIn December 1953, the States Reorganisation Commission was appointed to prepare for the creations of states on linguistic line. The commission, due to public demand, recommended disintegration of Hyderabad State and to merge Marathi speaking region with Bombay state and Kannada speaking region with Mysore state. The (SRC) discussed pros and cons of the merger of Telugu speaking Telangana region of Hyderabad state with Andhra state. Paragraph 374 of the SRC report said \"The creation of Vishalandhra is an ideal to which numerous individuals and public bodies, both in Andhra and Telangana\n, have been passionately attached over a long period of time, and unless there are strong reasons to the contrary, this sentiment is entitled to consideration\". Discussing the case of Telangana, paragraph 378 of the SRC report said \"One of the principal causes of opposition of Vishalandhra also seems to be the apprehension felt by the educationally backward people of Telangana that they may be swamped and exploited by the more advanced people of the coastal areas who were swamped by people of Tamilnadu already\". In its final analysis SRC recommended against the immediate merger. In paragraph 386 it said \"After taking all these factors into consideration we have come to the conclusions that it will be in the interests of Andhra as well as Telangana, if for the present, the Telangana area is to constitute into a separate State, which may be known as the Hyderabad State with provision for its unification with Andhra after the general elections likely to be held in or about 1961 if by a two thirds majority the legislature of the residuary Hyderabad State expresses itself in favor of such unification.\"\n\nAfter going through the recommendations of the SRC, the then Home Minister Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant decided to merge Andhra state and Telangana to form Andhra Pradesh state on 1 November 1956 after providing safeguards to Telangana in the form of Gentleman's agreement. \n\nTelangana was the largest of the three regions of Andhra Pradesh state, covering 41.47% of its total area. It is inhabited by 40.54% of the state's population. The following is the breakup of Andhra Pradesh's revenue by region:\nNote: The income generated by the capital city of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh is a complex issue with income being generated from all regions. This has caused a lot of confusion in region-wise income distribution. Also, after the bifurcation, companies will pay their portion of taxes to Telangana or present day Andhra Pradesh depending on where they operate. Before the bifurcation, many companies were paid taxes to capital city Hyderabad for their operations in Seemandhra.\n\nProponents of a separate Telangana state cite perceived injustices in the distribution of water, budget allocations, and jobs. Within the state of Andhra Pradesh, 68.5% of the catchment area of the Krishna River and 69% of the catchment area of the Godavari River are in the plateau region of Telangana and flowing through the other parts of the state into bay of Bengal. Telangana and non-coastal parts of Karnataka and Maharashtra states form Deccan Plateau. Telangana supporters state that 74.25% of irrigation water through the canal system under major irrigation projects goes to the Coastal Andhra region, while Telangana gets 18.20%. The remaining 7.55% goes to the Rayalaseema region.\n\nAs per Volume-II of Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal Award, \"The area which we are considering for irrigation formed part of Hyderabad State and had there been no division of that State, there were better chances for the residents of this area to get irrigation facilities in Mahboobnagar District. We are of the opinion that this area should not be deprived of the benefit of irrigation on account of the reorganisation of States.\"\n\nThe share of education funding for Telangana ranges from 9.86% in government-aided primary schools to 37.85% in government degree colleges. The above numbers include the expenditure in Hyderabad. Budget allocations to Telangana are generally less than 1/3 of the total Andhra Pradesh budget. There are allegations that in most years, funds allocated to Telangana were never spent. Since 1956, Andhra Pradesh government established 11 new medical colleges in the state. 8 were in Seemandhra and only 3 were in Telangana. Telangana was not compensated for lost opportunities because of inward migration of lot of students into Hyderabad from Seemandhra.\n\nAccording to Professor Jayashankar only 20% of the total Government employees, less than 10% of employees in the secretariat, and less than 5% of department heads in the Andhra Pradesh government are from Telangana; those from other regions make up the bulk of employment. He also alleged that the state was represented by Telangana chief ministers for only 6 1/2 years out of over five decades of its existence, with no chief minister from the region being in power continuously for more than 2 1/2 years. As per Srikrishna committee on Telangana, Telangana held the position of CM for 10.5 years while Seema-Andhra region held it for 42 years.\n\nAccording to the Backward Regions Grant Fund 2009–10, 13 backward districts are located in Andhra Pradesh: nine (all except Hyderabad) are from Telangana and the rest are from other regions.\n\nProponents of a separate Telangana state feel that the agreements, plans, and assurances from the legislature and Lok Sabha over the last fifty years have not been honoured, and as a consequence Telangana has remained neglected, exploited, and backward. They allege that the experiment to remain as one state has proven to be a futile exercise and that separation is the best solution.\n\nNote: The above content has been sourced from news articles and articles. It can only be regarded as opinions of a few people rather than solid facts.\n\nMost of the parties in the state changed their stand about Telangana statehood several times. Here are the stands taken by various parties in the state when the movement was at its peak between 2009 and 2013. Congress party, the ruling party at center, took its final decision to go ahead with creating the Telangana state in July 2013.\n\nIn parenthesis (MP seats/MLA seats from Andhra Pradesh)\n(a) Parties which were in favor of Telangana state before 9 December 2009, but changed the stand to neutral on 10 December 2009, the day the process for formation of Telangana state was announced by central government and later retracted on 23 December.\n\n(b) After 9 December 2009, Jagan Mohan Reddy as a Congress MP opposed the Telangana state formation. After he formed the YSR Congress party, it adopted a neutral stand.\n\n(c) The Praja Rajyam Party of actor-politician Chiranjeevi was against the division of the state, but merged into the Congress in 2011.\n\n(d) The Lok Satta adds that it will welcome the formation of a separate state as part of a comprehensive and amicable solution. It,however,states that the real issue is to improve the lives of people irrespective of the formation of a separate state.\n\n(e) During the all party meeting on 28 December 2012, TDP representatives gave a letter signed by its president to Home minister of India which said that the party had never withdrawn its letter to Pranab Mukherjee in 2008 which supported Telangana state formation.\n\n(f) MIM wants the state to remain united. If division is unavoidable, the party wants a separate state of Rayala-Telangana with Telangana and Rayalseema regions along with Hyderabad as capital. They oppose Hyderabad being declared as a union territory.\n\n(g) The Congress Working Committee (CWC) unanimously passed a resolution On 30 July to create the State of Telangana.\n\n1969 to 1973:\nThis period was marked by two political kranthi namely 'Jai Telangana' and 'Jai Andhra' movements. Social tensions arose due to influx of people from the Coastal Andhra region. Protests started with the hunger strike of a student from Khammam district for the implementation of safe-guards promised during the creation of Andhra Pradesh. The movement slowly manifested into a demand for a separate Telangana.\n\nSome students protested for \"implementation of the safe guards from Andhra Pradesh\" while some protested for a \"Separate Telangana\". The local newspaper \"Indian Express\" reported that the latter group were dominant. According to the 19 January 1969 edition of \"The Indian Express\", the agitation turned violent when a crowd attempted to set fire to a sub-inspector's residence. 17 were injured in police firing. Discussions about the promised safe-guards were held. The Telangana Regional Committee was, however, not fully convinced of the outcome. This agitation was met by a counter agitation by the Andhra students accusing the transfer Andhra employees as a discrimination between one region and the other. The transfers were eventually challenged in the high-court.\n\nThe army had to be called in. After several days of talks with leaders of both regions, on 12 April 1969, Prime minister put forth, an eight-point plan. Telangana leaders rejected the plan and protests continued under the leadership of newly formed political party Telangana Praja Samithi in 1969 asking for the formation of Telangana. Under the Mulki rules in force at the time, anyone who had lived in Hyderabad for 12 years was considered a local, and was thus eligible for certain government posts.\n\nTelangana Praja Samithi was formed under the leadership of Pratap Kishore with the intention of leading the movement. The party however, split in November 1969 with the exit of dissident Congress leaders.\n\n1971: In the May 1971 parliamentary elections, Telangana Praja Samithi won 10 out the 14 Parliament seats in Telangana. Despite these electoral successes, some of the new party leaders gave up their agitation in September 1971 after realising that the Prime Minister was not inclined to towards a separate state of Telangana, and rejoined the safer political haven of the Congress ranks. Chief Minister Brahmananda Reddy resigns to make room for a Telangana Chief Minister. On 30-September-1971, P.V.Narasimha Rao – who would later become the Prime Minister of India – was appointed the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. \"The Telangana Praja Samiti was dissolved and its members rejoined the Congress.\"\n\n1972: When the Supreme Court upheld the Mulki rules the Jai Andhra movement, with the aim of re-forming a separate state of Andhra, was started in Coastal Andhra and Rayalseema regions. The movement lasted for 110 days. The Supreme Court upheld the implementation of Mulki rules. The people from the Andhra region viewed the Mulki rules as \"treating them like aliens in their own land\".\n\n1973: a political settlement was reached with the Government of India with a Six-Point Formula. It was agreed upon by the leaders of the two regions to prevent any recurrence of such agitations in the future. To avoid legal problems, constitution was amended (32nd amendment) to give the legal sanctity to the Six-point formula.\n\nIn 1985, when Telangana employees complained about the violations to six point formula, government enacted government order 610 (GO 610) to correct the violations in recruitment. As Telangana people complained about the non-implementation of GO 610, in 2001, the government formed the Girglani commission to look into violations.\n\nIn 1997, the state unit of the BJP passed a resolution seeking a separate Telangana. In 2000, Congress party MLAs from the Telangana region who supported a separate Telangana state formed the Telangana Congress Legislators Forum and submitted momorandum to their president Sonia Gandhi requesting to support the Telangana state.\n\nA new party called Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), led by Kalvakuntla Chandrashekar Rao (KCR), was formed in April 2001 with the single-point agenda of creating a separate Telangana state with Hyderabad as its capital.\n\nIn 2001, the Congress Working Committee sent a resolution to the NDA government for constituting a second SRC to look into the Telangana state demand. This was rejected by then union home minister L.K. Advani citing that smaller states were neither viable nor conducive to the integrity of the country.\n\nIn April 2002, Advani wrote a letter to MP A. Narendra rejecting a proposal to create Telangana state explaining that \"regional disparities in economic development could be tackled through planning and efficient use of available resources\". He said that the NDA government, therefore, does \"not propose creation of a separate state of Telangana\" However, in 2012, Advani said that if their then partner TDP cooperated during NDA tenure, a separate state of Telangana could have been created. This was confirmed by the President of the TDP, Chandrababu Naidu, on 1 September 2013 in a public meeting.\n\nIn the run-up to the 2004 Assembly and Parliament elections, then Union Home Minister L. K. Advani ruled out inclusion of Telangana in the NDA agenda and said \"Unless there is consensus among all political parties in the state and unless that consensus is reflected in a resolution of the state Assembly, we don’t propose to include it in the NDA agenda\"\n\nFor these elections, the Congress party and the TRS forged an electoral alliance in the Telangana region to consider the demand of separate Telangana State. Congress came to power in the state and formed a coalition government at the centre; TRS joined the coalition after the common minimum program of the coalition government included that the demand for separate Telangana state will be considered after due consultations and consensus.\n\nIn February 2009 the state government declared that it had no objection, in principle, to the formation of separate Telangana and that the time had come to move forward decisively on this issue. To resolve related issues, the government constituted a joint house committee. In the lead-up to the 2009 General Elections in India, all the major parties in Andhra Pradesh supported the formation of Telangana.\n\nIn the 2009 elections TRS managed to win only 10 assembly seats out of the 45 it contested and only 2 MP seats. Some media analysts thought Telangana sentiment faded.\n\nWithin few months of getting re-elected as popular CM, Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy (YSR) died in a helicopter crash in September 2009. This resulted in a leadership crisis within the Congress party and also created a political vacuum in the state. During this time, TRS president K. Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) raised his pitch for the separate state. On 29 November 2009, he started a fast-unto-death, demanding that the Congress party introduce a Telangana bill in Parliament. Student organisations, employee unions, and various organisations joined the movement. General strikes shut down Telangana on 6 and 7 December. In an all party meeting called by the state government on the night of 7 December to discuss regarding KCR's fast and how to handle it, all major Opposition parties extended their support for a separate state for Telangana. The state Congress and its ally Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen have left it to the Congress high command to take a final decision. Minutes of the meeting were faxed to Congress high command.\n\nOn 9 December 2009, Union Minister of Home Affairs P. Chidambaram announced that the Indian government would start the process of forming a separate Telangana state, pending the introduction and passage of a separation resolution in the Andhra Pradesh assembly. This resulted in protests across both Andhra and Rayalseema. Students, workers, lawyers and various organisations in the regions launched the Samaikyandhra Movement demanding that the state be kept united. MLAs from these regions also submitted their resignations in protest seeking a reversal of the home minister's statement.\n\nOn 23 December, keeping in view the reactions of people of other regions, the Government of India announced that no action on Telangana will be taken until a consensus is reached by all parties and groups in the state.\nCoastal Andhra and Rayalaseema region MLAs started withdrawing their resignations while MLAs and ministers from Telangana started submitting their resignations, and demanded that the Centre take immediate steps to initiate the process of bifurcating Andhra Pradesh.\n\nA Joint Action Committee (also known as JAC or TJAC) comprising political and non-political groups was formed to lead the demand for separate Telangana with Osmania University professor M Kodandaram as its convenor.\n\nOn 3 February, the government appointed a five-member committee headed by Justice SriKrishna to look into the issue.\n\nThe Srikrishna Committee headed by former Chief Justice B. N. Srikrishna toured all the regions of state extensively and invited people from all sections of the society to give their opinion on the statehood. It received over one lakh petitions and representations from political parties, organisations, NGOs and individuals. It also held consultations with political parties and general public while also factoring in the impact of recent developments on different sections of people such as women, children, students, minorities, Other Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.\n\nOn 16 December 2010, two weeks before the deadline for the submission of the Srikrishna report, TRS organised a public meeting in Warangal. It was estimated that over 2.6 million people attended this meeting. It was reported that even more would have attended, but were stranded due to traffic jams along roads leading to the city. TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao appealed to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to note that the people of Telangana were losing patience. He demanded that the Centre introduce the Bill on Telangana in the next session of Parliament.\n\nDays before the Srikrishna committee submitted its report to the Central government, KCR declared that his party was ready to wash Sonia Gandhi's feet if she agrees to the Telangana demand. He said his party is associated with the movement and was willing to dissolve the party if the state was formed.\n\nThe Indian Home Ministry released the 505 page Srikrishna committee on 6 January 2011. The committee opined that most regions of Telangana (excluding Hyderabad) were either \"on par or a shade lower\" than Coastal Andhra. When Hyderabad is included, Telangana fared better. The most backward of all regions was in fact Rayalaseema. The committee, however, agreed with the violations of GO 610. Most violations, however, have been in the education and health sectors due to dearth of qualified locals. It also noted that the funds released for educational institutions in Telangana were lower than in the other two regions of the state. The committee did not see the Telangana movement as a threat to national integrity. Noting the emotions in the general public about the issue, a perceived neglect in implementation of assurances given to the region,it also said that \"The continuing demand, therefore, for a separate Telangana, the Committee felt, has some merit and is not entirely unjustified\". The conclusion of the report included the following statements \"Therefore, after taking into account all the pros and cons, the Committee did not think it to be the most preferred, but the second best, option. Separation is recommended only in case it is unavoidable and if this decision can be reached amicably amongst all the three regions\"\n\nThe report discusses six solutions to the problem, the preferred option being keeping the State united by simultaneously providing certain definite constitutional and statutory measures for socio-economic development and political empowerment of Telangana region through the creation of a statutorily empowered Telangana Regional Council. The second best option is bifurcation of the State into Telangana and Seemandhra as per existing boundaries, with Hyderabad as the capital of Telangana and Seemandhra to have a new capital.\n\nThe eighth chapter of the report was not made public for undisclosed reasons. After a judgement delivered by Justice L Narasimha Reddy of Andhra Pradesh High Court, the contents of the \"secret\" chapter were submitted to the High Court. The Chief Justice, in his 60 page judgement, said \"The Committee travelled beyond the terms of reference in its endeavour to persuade the Union of India not to accede to the demand for Telangana\". The judgement also quoted the SKC report's 8th chapter and said \"The manoeuvre suggested by the Committee in its secret supplementary note poses an open challenge, if not threat, to the very system of democracy.\" The eighth chapter was not make public after division bench comprising the Chief Justice of the AP high court has stayed the order of Justice L Narasimha Reddy. Hence, the facts of the comments of the judge on the eighth chapter remain unverified.\n\nOn 17 February 2011, a noncooperation movement was started which lasted for 16 days with participation by 3,00,000 government employees. It caused a loss of Rs 8 billion per day in revenue to government. In February and March, Assembly session was boycotted for weeks and Parliament session was disrupted for several days by Telangana representatives.\nMillion March was organised by Telangana JAC in Hyderabad on 10 March 2011. Many seemandhra bound police were dropped into Hyderabad city to stop the Telangana movement. In a move to disrupt the march,seemandhra police arrested over thousand activists throughout the region and closed down entry to Hyderabad city by stopping certain transportation services and diverting traffic. Around 50,000 people reached the venue of the march, Tank Bund by hoodwinking police. Telangana activists damaged 16 statues of personalities representing Andhra culture and threw some of the remnants into the lake.\n\nIn November 2011, Telangana Rashtra Samiti Vidyarthi Vibhagam (TRSV) state president Balka Suman was arrested by Hyderabad police after cases were registered against him in connection with damaging statues on Tank Bund during the 'Million March,' attacking police personnel, damaging police and seemandhra media vehicles.\n\nFrom April till June, the movement saw a lull, with different parties citing various reasons and fresh deadlines to renew the agitation. In July, 81 of 119 Telangana MLAs in the state, 12 out of 15 Telangana ministers in state, 13 out of 17 Telangana MPs in Lok Sabha, 1 Rajyasabha MP (Congress), 20 MLCs resigned protesting delay in the formation of Telangana. On 20 July 30-year-old Yadi Reddy was found dead 100 yards from Parliament House in Delhi. An eight-page suicide note says the young driver from greater Hyderabad region of Telangana was upset over the government not creating a new state for his homeland. The speaker of the AP assembly on 23 July summarily rejected the resignations of all 101 MLAs citing that they were made in an emotionally surcharged atmosphere. All Telangana MPs who earlier submitted their resignations and were boycotting the parliament session also decided to attend the parliament monsoon session citing Sonia Gandhi's ill health.\n\nOn 12 September 2011, a day before Sakala Janula Samme (All people's strike), TRS organised a public meeting in Karimnagar which was attended by over a million people including TJAC leaders, BJP and New Democracy party leaders.\n\nStarting 13 September, as part of 'strike by all section of people' supporting Telangana statehood, government employees throughout Telangana stayed out of work, lawyers boycotted courts and 60,000 coal miners of Singareni Collieries (SCCL Ltd.) also joined the strike. Soon government teachers, state road transport corporation employees and state electricity board employees joined the strike.\n\nOn a call given by JAC, road blockades on national highways throughout Telangana, rail blockade and the strike of auto rikshaw union were organised on 24 and 25 September causing disruption in transport services. Virtually all sections of people joined this strike.\nOn 30 September, as the strike entered the 18th day, even while Congress central leadership met several Telangana congress leaders, JAC called a bundh in Hyderabad city. On 2 October, JAC leaders, employee unions leaders and TRS leaders including KCR met Prime minister to explain the situation in Telangna due to the strike and asked to expedite the decision on the statehood demand. The strike has resulted in an unprecedented power crisis in the state with only 223 MU of power generated against the demand of 275MU impacting both the industry and agriculture.\n\nDue to Rail blockade call on 15 October 110 trains were cancelled and 68 trains were diverted by authorities. The railways operated 12 trains and Hyderabad metro trains with full police protection. Telangana protestors tried to have sit in on rail platforms or on railway tracks at various places. Police arrested thousands of protesters including 8 MPs and 4 MLAs. On 16 October public transport employees called off the strike. Within days other unions too called off the strike one after another. After 42 days, on 24 October, remaining employees unions called off the strike. M. Kodandaram said that the strike had impacted the overall thinking of the Centre towards creation of separate State and the movement will continue with other protest activities.\n\nOn 29 October 2011, three Congress party MLAs belonging to Telangana region resigned and joined TRS in protest as they were disappointed with Congress leadership's delay in Telangana state formation.\n\nOn 1 November, Congress MLA Komatireddy Venkat Reddy started an indefinite hunger strike until the central government announced a roadmap for Telangana state. 5 days later, the fast was broken when police arrested him under Section 309 of IPC (attempt to commit suicide) and shifted him to NIMS, Hyderabad where he was kept under intravenous fluids. He ended his fast on 9 November. 97-year-old Freedom fighter Konda Laxman Bapuji also launched his week-long satyagraha at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, demanding statehood to the region.\n\nIn January, BJP led by State party president Kishan Reddy started the 22-day Telangana 'Poru Yatra', across 88 assembly constituencies stressing the need for Telangana state. Though the tour was successful in reiterating the party's pro-Telangana stance, it could not garner as much support as hoped because of the indifferent attitude of the TRS and TJAC. In fact the failure of the TRS in declaring its support to Kishan Reddy’s yatra has resulted in growing differences between the two parties.\n\nBy-elections took place on 18 March in 6 Telangana assembly seats. TRS won four out of five seats it contested with huge majorities ranging from 15,024 to 44,465. In two out of the four seats won by TRS (Kamareddy and Adilabad), the TRS candidates polled less number of votes compared to 2009 assembly elections when they contested as candidates from TDP which was in alliance with TRS. Ex-TDP MLA Nagam Janardhan Reddy won from Nagarkurnool seat as an independent with TJAC support. Congress lost deposit in one constituency and TDP in 3 constituencies.\n\nBye-polls were conducted for 18 Assembly seats and 1 Parliament seat on 12 June. The YSRCP won 15 assembly seats and the lone Parliament seat in Seema-Andhra region. TRS's candidate managed to win the Parkal seat with a slender majority of 1562 votes over YSRCP candidate Konda Surekha. TDP finished third after polling 30,000 votes and retained its deposit. Both BJP and Congress lost their deposits.\n\nIn September 2012, Sushilkumar Shinde, the newly appointed Home minister of India commented that the Telangana demand needs to be handled carefully since similarly carved smaller states saw increased Naxal problems. Addressing a public meeting in Nizamabad district, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi said that formation of a separate Telangana state is not possible and reaffirmed his party's stand on the issue. He also said that Muslims would not accept a separate state.\n\nOn 14 August 2012, KCR gave a deadline to the centre to declare statehood in 2 weeks and promised to launch another round of agitation if the centre doesn't. He later declared that he got feelers that a positive announcement will be made by Eid. In another interview after Eid, he remarked that Sonia Gandhi has always been in favour of Telangana and that the central government will call his party for discussions in \"few weeks or so\" On 6 September, KCR left for Delhi and announced that the issue will be resolved by end of September. After his 23-day stay in Delhi, KCR returned to Hyderabad hoping for a final round of talks with the Congress leadership on the issue. He claimed that his discussions with several leaders was fruitful.\n\nAfter setting 30 September as the deadline for the Centre to announce the formation of Telangana, the TJAC threatened to organise a 'Telangana March' in Hyderabad on the lines of the 'Dandi March' .\nAnticipating violence and possibility of attack on properties of Andhraites, Police initially refused permission to the march which is scheduled around the time of Ganesh Nimmajjan on 29 September and UN conference on Bio diversity on 1 October. The Police begun checking buses and trains entering the city and students who are trying to enter the city to participate in the protest are being sent back. They identified troublemakers and arrested certain pro-Telangana activists throughout the Telangana region. Police said that there are intelligence reports that the protestors could attack properties of people of Seemandhra.\n\nOn 28 September, after long discussions between JAC leaders and ministers from Telangana region, the state government ignoring warnings about the possible breakdown of law and order, gave permission for the march. The JAC leaders gave written assurance to the government that the agitation programme would be conducted in a peaceful and \"gandhian\" manner from 15:00 to 19:00 on 30 September on the Necklace Road on the edge of Hussain Sager lake. Indian Railways cancelled several express and passenger trains and all local and sub-urban train services in Hyderabad reportedly on the advice of police.\n\nOn 30 September, the day of the march, Police closed the gates and blocked students at the Osmania University gate and other protestors at several places in the city when they were proceeding in rallies towards the March venue. Congress MPs from Telangana were arrested in front of Chief minister's office when they staged a dharna as they were not allowed to meet him over the detention of their party supporters who were stopped from reaching the venue.\n\nThough police sealed all the entry points to the Necklace Road and opened only the Buddha Bhavan route, by 4pm around 2 lakh protestors including various party leaders and their supporters reached the venue from all routes. Coming under attack from both sides, the police ceded the entire Necklace Road to the protesters who marched on till Jal Vihar. According to the Police, the protesters torched two police vehicles at People's Plaza on the Necklace Road. The mobs also set afire three police vehicles, a couple of media outdoor broadcasting vans, machinery and a temporary cabin room of a construction company. The protesters made an attempt to set on fire a local train at Khairatabad station. At the railway’s Hussainsagar junction cabin, around 1,000 Telangana supporters went on a rampage overpowering over 100 uniformed men stationed in the area and burnt down the cabin after manhandling railway staff. The entire signalling system was damaged and officials pegged the loss at around Rs. 60 lakh.\n\nAfter 19:00, TJAC leaders violated the deadline and refused to leave the venue till the government issues a statement on Telangana. Police first used water cannons and later lobbed tear gas shells on the crowd and on to the stage to force the protestors to leave the venue. Finally at midnight the JAC called off the March citing heavy rain and injured supporters.\n\nThe next day, local police registered 15 cases against Kodandaram and others for conducting the march beyond the permitted time of 7 pm and till midnight and also for violence during the march. Railway police also registered cases against unidentified persons for damage to the signalling system at Lakdikapul. Cases were booked against the student leaders of TSJAC, OUJAC, Telangana Vidyarti Parishad and TVV. The bandh drew little response in Hyderabad and was partial in Telangana districts. Osmania University students again resorted to stone throwing and police retaliated by using tear gas shells.\nOn 27 December 2012 a meeting was organised by Home minister of India to discuss the Telangana issue. It was attended by 8 political parties having significant presence in the state legislature. After hearing views of all the parties, the home minister said that this will be the last such meeting on this issue and that the government will come up with a decision within 30 days. In the meeting, MIM and CPI (M) reiterated their strong opposition to division of the state. YSR Congress remained neutral and requested the central government to take a decision. Congress representatives gave conflicting views, one supporting the division and one opposing it. TDP representatives gave a letter signed by its president which said that it never withdrawn its letter to Pranab Mukharjee in 2008 supporting Telangana state formation. Telangana JAC demanded more clarity from Telugu Desam before they allow TDP to be a member of JAC.\n\n2013 witnessed more protest by the TJAC including blockade of the road blockade of NH 7 in Mahbubnagar district. Public property was destroyed. This year also witnessed protest by 5 Congress MPs for 48 hours at the entrance of the Indian Parliament.\n\nLeaders from various political parties joined TRS in support of the movement.\n\nIn May 2013, the TJAC gave a call to lay siege to the state legislative Assembly in Hyderabad on 14 June 2013 to demand the formation of Telangana. Government refused permission to the march as they had information that anti-social elements might participate in the event and cause violence like in previous events of \"Sagara Haram\" and \"Million March\" where violence erupted despite promises made by the TJAC. Police made pre-emptive arrests of activists through the region which led to stalling of the assembly proceedings by opposition parties. The chief minister directed the Director-General of Police at a high-level review meeting not to use even rubber bullets in their efforts and observe utmost restraint in maintaining law and order. Amid fear of violence by Naxalites after an open letter claimed to have been written by them on the rally, police sounded a high alert across the state and almost sealed all the arterial roads leading to the Assembly. Over 25,000 policemen belonging to both central and state security forces were deployed. The TJAC leaders alleged that the government has been using repressive measures to prevent them from representing the aspirations of Telangana people in a peaceful manner. Educational institutions declared a holiday and public transport went off the roads and shops and establishments shut as a precautionary measure.\n\nOn the day of the event in spite of the restrictions placed, police could not totally prevent Telangana activists from sneaking into prime locations and making a vain bid to rush towards the Assembly. Hundreds of people including state legislators, the JAC Chairman and other leaders were arrested across the city. Osmania University campus witnessed pitched battles as police closed the campus gate to stop students leaving campus in a rally then resorted to tear gas shelling when student started stone pelting. After the march, the TJAC Chairman remarked that their goal to reach the Assembly complex and highlight their demand was fulfilled.\n\nAccording to an internal survey reportedly done for the state government (cited by media sources in June), the Congress party will get around 35-40 seats out of 294 MLA seats in the state, with TRS ahead in Telangana region while YSRCP in the Seema-Andhra region. This survey was reportedly being considered to arrive at a decision on the statehood issue.\n\nOn 30 June, Congress leaders belonging to Telangana region organised a public meeting in Hyderabad with a turn out of over 100,000 to show their support to Telangana state. It was attended by Damodar Raja Narasimha, Deputy Chief minister of the state, central ministers, state ministers, MPs and MLAs who expressed the confidence that their party leadership will create the separate state soon and said that Congress will perform well in the next elections in such a situation.\n\nOn 1 July, Congress party's in-charge of the state, Digvijay Singh said that party is at the final stages of taking decision on Telangana issue. He also directed state chief minister, deputy chief minister and state party president (they represent assembly constituencies in Rayalaseema, Telangana and Coastal Andhra regions respectively) to furnish a roadmap, keeping both options open, that could help lead to a decision. On 11 July the three leaders presented their views in the Congress core committee meeting, post which it was announced that a decision will be taken by the Congress Working Committee.\n\nThe Chief Minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy met several MPs, MLAs and MLCs on 29 July in a bid to resolve the issue being taken up by the central Congress government.\n\nThe Congress Working Committee (CWC) unanimously passed a resolution On 30 July to create the State of Telangana. The committee also assured that the concerns of people from the remaining regions regarding sharing of water and power resources will be addressed. The bifurcation decision sparked off fresh protests as part of the Samaikyandhra Movement.\n\nTRS welcomed the decision and its chief K. Chadrashekhar Rao said that his party is fine with Hyderabad being the joint capital. This was seen as an attempt by the INC to merge TRS into itself for the general and provincial election after being marginalised in the Rayalseema and coastal regions by the YSR Congress. </ref> and that their party supports the creation of Telangana and Vidarbha. They demanded that other requests for the creation of new states such as those of Gorkhaland and Bodoland need to be done by appointing a Second States Reorganisation Commission earlier too. We now demand that the government should set it up and seek a report within a specific timeframe.\n\nMany parties and politicians including the Chief Minister-who hails from Rayalaseema- protested the bill. Some even termed it as \"undemocratic\". The congress and YSRCP were wiped out in the following elections, however in all three regions of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Indian general election, 2014.\n\nThe decision sparked protests by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) in the form of an indefinite strike for Gorkhaland. GJM President Bimal Gurung also resigned from the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration in demand for Gorkhaland, citing West Bengal government's interference with its autonomy. It was even speculated by the media that more such moves could gain steam, such as that by the Bundelkhand Mukti Morcha for Bundelkhand. Meanwhile, the national Home Ministry opined that the lack of development in the proposed areas and the proximity to other hotbeds in Chattishgarh's Bastar and Maharashtra's Gadhidoli regions might cause an increase in Naxalism in Telangana Communist Party of India (Maoist) if the administration is not quickly consolidated.\n\nThe next steps towards the re-formation of Telangana, expected by early 2014, are: The national cabinet sharing its plans with the President of India and the Andhra Pradesh legislature. The Prime Minister would then organise a committee to negotiate a consensus between the leaders from the three regions for issues such as sharing revenue and water. Both national houses of parliament would then have to pass a resolution to create Telangana.\n\n3 October 2013, the Union Cabinet approved the creation of the new State of Telangana. A Group of Ministers (GoM) was created to settle issues concerning the new state and the State of Andhra Pradesh. Hyderabad will be the shared capital for 10 years, after which it will belong to Telangana, said the Home Minister.\n\nOn 8 October, recently retired director general of police Dinesh Reddy said the Chief minister, Kiran Kumar Reddy pressured him to issue a public statement that the creation of Telangana would lead to intensification of Maoist activities. He also charged that the CM had reprimanded him for seeking additional central forces for containing expected trouble in Seemandhra in the run up to the Congress Working Committee's Telangana resolution at the end of July.\n\nGovt of India set up the Group of Ministers (GOM) headed by union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde to address all the issues that need resolution at the central and state government levels during the formation of Telangana state. GOM met on 11 October for the first time released its terms of reference]] on 16 Oct. GOM met 2nd time on 19 October and considered\nthe background notes which had been prepared by the Home Ministry regarding the various issues pertaining to the bifurcation. It also asked feedback from public to send their suggestions pertaining to the specific terms of reference before 5 November. On 29 October, the background notes prepared by Home ministry for GOM appeared in the media. On 30 October, Union Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde called for an all-party meeting, to be attended by representatives of national and regional parties of the state, to discuss the issues related to bifurcation. In a letter to 8 major political parties in the state, home ministry asked the parties to submit their suggestions to the GoM by 5 November, following which an all-party meeting will be held. On 13-14 November GOM met the representatives all parties of the state to discuss (TDP boycotted the meeting) about the issues related to bifurcation. GOM had meetings including some with CM, Deputy CM, cabinet ministers from the state and other state leaders while finalizing the Telangana draft bill.\n\nOn 3 December, Talk of including two Rayalaseema districts, Ananthapur district and Kurnool district, in Telangana state by GOM was criticised by pro-Telangana groups. TRS and JAC called for Telangana wide bandh (strike) on 5 December 2013 which had a good response.\n\nOn the evening of 5 December 2013, the cabinet approved the Telangana draft bill prepared by Group of Ministers (GoM). The bill have to approved by Parliament before it becomes 29th state of the union.\n\n6 December 2013: India's Union Home Ministry sends the Telangana draft bill to The President of India.\n\n11 December 2013: The President of India reviews the bill and passes it on to the Andhra Pradesh State Assembly to elicit its views, giving it until 23 January to respond with its views. The bill was urgently hand-delivered the following day,to Assembly Secretariat by the Joint Secretary of Union Home Ministry.\n\n16 December 2013: The Telangana draft bill was introduced in Andhra Pradesh state assembly by deputy speaker Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka in the speaker's absence. This was met by protests and chaos created by the Seemandhra MLAs.\n\n17 December 2013: Assembly's proceedings remain disrupted. The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the State Assembly decides to discuss the Bill starting the following day. This evokes mixed reactions including allegations on Seemandhra leaders' attempt to derail the bill by delaying the process.\n\n18,19 December 2013: Assembly proceedings continue to be disrupted. The situation forces the speaker, Nadendla Manohar to adjourn the house until 3 January. This is met with protests from the Telangana MLAs. Telangana and Seemandhra leaders meet The President Pranab Mukherjee vying with each other to complain about the way the Telangana bill was being handled.\n\n1 January 2014: 2 days before the start of the next assembly session, the Chief Minister Kiran kumar Reddy replaces D Sridhar Babu with S Sailajanath. This move comes criticised as the former hails from Telangana and the latter is actively involved with Samaikyandhra Movement. Sridhar Babu resigns from the cabinet in protest.\n\n3,4 January 2014: Situation fails to improve as Assembly sessions remain disrupted.\n\n6 January 2014: Unable to continue Assembly sessions amid chaos, the speaker requests members to submit written amendments, if any, to the clauses of the Bill by 10 January.\n\n8 January 2014: The bill is finally taken up for debate. However, this lasts for only a few minutes with the YSR Congress Party MLAs resuming protests.\n\n9 January: The debate continues only after YSRCP MLAs were suspended. While there was polarisation on regional lines, debate more or less turned into a blame game over the state bifurcation issue as every party indulged in a game of political one-upmanship. Congress leader from Seemandhra and minister Vatti Vasanth Kumar spoke opposing the Telangana bill and said bifurcation is against Seemandhra interests. On 10 January, debate started after YSRCP members staged walk out. Among others, TRS floor leader, E Rajender spoke in length supporting Telangana bill while highlighting the grievances of Telangana people and the history of the movement. CPI floor leader G Mallesh, Congress leader from Telangana and government chief whip Gandra Venkaramana Reddy spoke supporting Telangana bill. House was adjorned until 17 January. After 17 January, debate had less disruptions. Chief Minister requested the President four weeks of additional time for the debate a move opposed by Telangana leaders. On 23 January, President gave 7days extension, until 30 January, for assembly to give its views on Telangana draft bill.\n\n23-25 Jan 2014: The Chief Minister presents his analysis on how the bifurcation is detrimental to both regions, the highlights being the effect on current irrigation projects in Telangana and better subsidised electricity given to farmers of Telangana. Telangana MLAs ridicule the Chief Minister and prevent the proceedings citing no opportunity to make a counter argument. The Chief Minister later expresses his opinion as the AP Reorganisation Bill-2013 being defective. Other members view this as an unduly delayed reaction.\n\n27 Jan 2014: Chief Minister Kirankumar Reddy, gave notice to assembly speaker requesting to move resolution rejecting the Telangana bill. The move was criticised by Telangana MLAs including the ministers and deputy chief minister saying that cabinet was not consulted on the subject. They said this \"amounts to defying the Union Cabinet, Constitution and President\". After this, no debate was possible in the assembly as Telangana members insisted that speaker reject the Chief minister's notice.\n\nOn 30 January 2014, Andhra Pradesh assembly speaker declared that assembly completed the debate and all the members gave their views. He said, he would send to the President of India a compilation of 9,072 suggestions and amendments he received in writing from members, including 87 members who had spoken on the Bill in the house. Further he accepted the Chief minister's notice of resolution to reject the AP Reorganisation Bill and declared that resolution passed by voice vote without even waiting for the MLAs in the house to say ‘aye’, admist pandemonium and protests from Telangana MLAs. Earlier in the day Seemandhra members rushed to the well of the House demanding that the resolution moved by the CM, without cabinet approval, be put to vote, those from the Telangana region, including the ministers and deputy chief minister, did the same with the demand that there should be no voting. At 11.30 pm, in what appears to be a coordinated strategy between the speaker, the chief minister and the Seemandhra legislators, all the members from that region converged at the well of the House and formed a wall around the speaker even as Manohar read out the resolution, put it to voice vote and declared it as having been passed. The bill will now be sent back to President Pranab Mukherjee after which it is slated to be tabled in Parliament. The resolution was placed in the house and was declared passed within 15 seconds. Analysts say \"rejection of Telangana bill\" is not valid and is useful only for political grand standing. Union cabinet minister Jaipal Reddy said that the resolution to reject the Telangana bill was passed in the assembly by cheating and it has no statutory and political sanctity. General secretary of Congress Party and party's in-charge for Andhra Pradesh, Digvijay Singh said that the bill that the President sent to the Assembly was never meant to be put to vote and said that the Congress high command and the Center would go ahead with its plans to introduce and pass the Telangana Bill in Parliament during the forthcoming session.\n\nOn 4 February, GOM cleared the Telangana bill after making few amendments to it based upon the input from state assembly.\n\nOn 7 February, Union cabinet cleared the Telangana bill and plans to introduce in upper house of Parliament with 32 amendments. Amendments include the details of financial package to Seemandhra to address their concerns.\n\nOn 13 February, Telangana bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament, by Union home minister, Sushilkumar Shinde despite protests, disruptions of Seemandhra MPs. In an unprecedented incidence, the use of pepper spray by Seemandhra MP, Lagadapati Rajagopal in the Lok Sabha during the introduction of the bill caused all the members to leave the house and some members to be hospitalised.\n\n18 February 2014: the Telangana Bill is passed by the Lok Sabha with support from the Congress, TRS and other local parties. Broadcast of the proceedings enters a blackout during the voice vote. This caused widespread criticism of the manner in which the bill was passed.\n\n20 February 2014: The Telangana bill is passed by Rajya Sabha with the support from the Congress, TRS, BJP and other local parties. The bill receives the assent of the President and published in the gazette on 1 March 2014. On 4 March 2014 the Government of India declares 2 June 2014 the Telangana Formation Day. Telangana is the 29th state of the Union of India with Hyderabad as its capital. Both states will share the capital for 10 years until Seemandhra can establish its own. However, the revenues of Hyderabad and state governing power will go only to Telangana. No special status was accorded to Seemandhra, though it was hinted in the Telangana Bill.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2451129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451129", "title": "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers", "text": "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers\n\nThe Rise and Fall of the Great Powers: Economic Change and Military Conflict from 1500 to 2000, by Paul Kennedy, first published in 1987, explores the politics and economics of the Great Powers from 1500 to 1980 and the reason for their decline. It then continues by forecasting the positions of China, Japan, the European Economic Community (EEC), the Soviet Union and the United States through the end of the 20th century.\n\nKennedy argues that the strength of a Great Power can be properly measured only relative to other powers, and he provides a straightforward and persuasively argued thesis: Great Power ascendancy (over the long term or in specific conflicts) correlates strongly to available resources and economic durability; military overstretch and a concomitant relative decline are the consistent threats facing powers whose ambitions and security requirements are greater than their resource base can provide for. \n\nThroughout the book he reiterates his early statement (page 71): \"Military and naval endeavors may not always have been the \"raison d'être\" of the new nations-states, but it certainly was their most expensive and pressing activity\", and it remains such until the power's decline. He concludes that declining countries can experience greater difficulties in balancing their preferences for guns, butter and investments.\n\nKennedy states his theory in the second paragraph of the introduction as follows: \n\nKennedy adds on the same page:\n\nThe book starts at the dividing line between the Renaissance and early modern history—1500 (Chapter 1). It briefly discusses the Ming (page 4) and Muslim worlds (page 9) of the time and the rise of the western powers relative to them (page 16). The book then proceeds chronologically, looking at each of the power shifts over time and the effect on other Great Powers and the \"Middle Powers\".\n\nKennedy uses a number of measures to indicate real, relative and potential strength of nations throughout the book. He changes the metric of power based on the point in time. Chapter 2, \"The Habsburg Bid for Mastery, 1519–1659\" emphasizes the role of the \"manpower revolution\" in changing the way Europeans fought wars (see military revolution). This chapter also emphasizes the importance of Europe's political boundaries in shaping a political balance of power.\n\nThe Habsburg failure segues into the thesis of Chapter 3, that financial power reigned between 1660 and 1815, using Britain, France, Prussia, Austria-Hungary, and Russia to contrast between powers that could finance their wars (Britain and France) and powers that needed financial patronage to mobilize and maintain a major military force on the field. Kennedy presents a table (page 81, Table 2) of \"British Wartime Expenditures and Revenue\"; between 1688 and 1815 is especially illustrative, showing that Britain was able to maintain loans at around one-third of British wartime expenditures throughout that period\n\nThe chapter also argues that British financial strength was \"the\" single most decisive factor in its victories over France during the 18th century. This chapter ends on the Napoleonic Wars and the fusion of British financial strength with a newfound industrial strength.\n\nKennedy's next two chapters depend greatly upon Bairoch's calculations of industrialization, measuring all nations by an index, where 100 is the British per capita industrialization rate in 1900. The United Kingdom grows from 10 in 1750, to 16 in 1800, 25 in 1830, 64 in 1860, 87 in 1880, to 100 in 1900 (page 149). In contrast, France's per capita industrialization was 9 in 1750, 9 in 1800, 12 in 1830, 20 in 1860, 28 in 1880, and 39 in 1900. Relative shares of world manufacturing output (also first appearing on page 149) are used to estimate the peaks and troughs of power for major states. China, for example, begins with 32.8% of global manufacturing in 1750 and plummets after the First Opium War, Second Opium War and Taiping Rebellion to 19.7% of global manufacturing in 1860, and 12.5% in 1880 (compared to the UK's 1.9% in 1750, growing to 19.9% in 1860, and 22.9% in 1880).\n\nMeasures of strength in the 20th century (pages 199–203) use population size, urbanization rates, Bairoch's per capita levels of industrialization, iron and steel production, energy consumption (measured in millions of metric tons of coal equivalent), and total industrial output of the powers (measured against Britain's 1900 figure of 100), to gauge the strength of the various great powers.\n\nKennedy also emphasizes productivity increase, based on systematic interventions, which led to economic growth and prosperity for great powers in the 20th century.\n\nHe compares the great powers at the close of the 20th century and predicts the decline of the Soviet Union, the rise of China and Japan, the struggles and potential for the European Economic Community (EEC), and the relative decline of the United States. He highlights the precedence of the \"four modernizations\" in Deng Xiaoping's plans for China—agriculture, industry, science and military—de-emphasizing military, while the United States and Soviet Union are emphasizing it. He predicts that continued deficit spending, especially on military build-up, will be the single most important reason for decline of any great power.\n\nFrom the Civil War to the first half of the 20th century, the United States' economy benefited from high agricultural production, plentiful raw materials, technological advancements and financial inflows. During this time the U.S. did not have to contend with foreign dangers. From 1860 to 1914, U.S. exports increased sevenfold, resulting in huge trade surpluses. By 1945 the U.S. both enjoyed high productivity and was the only major industrialized nation intact after World War II. From the 1960s onward, the U.S. saw a relative decline in its share of world production and trade. By the 1980s, the U.S. experienced declining exports of agricultural and manufactured goods. In the space of a few years, the U.S. went from being the largest creditor to the largest debtor nation. At the same time, the federal debt was growing at an increasing pace. This situation is typical of declining hegemons.\n\nThe United States has the typical problems of a great power, which include balancing guns and butter and investments for economic growth. The U.S.' growing military commitment to every continent (other than Antarctica) and the growing cost of military hardware severely limit available options. Kennedy compares the U.S.' situation to Great Britain's prior to World War I. He comments that the map of U.S. bases is similar to Great Britain's before World War I.\n\nAs military expenses grow, this reduces investments in economic growth, which eventually \"leads to the downward spiral of slower growth, heavier taxes, deepening domestic splits over spending priorities, and weakening capacity to bear the burdens of defense.\" Kennedy's advice is as follows:\n\n\nThe book has twelve maps, forty-nine tables and three charts to assist the reader in understanding the text.\n\n\"The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers\" is the eighth and best-known book by historian Paul Kennedy. It reached number six on the list of best-selling hardcover books for 1988. In 1988 the author was awarded the Wolfson History Prize for this work.\n\nRepublished: January 1989, Paperback, , 704 pages\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5305511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5305511", "title": "United Macedonia", "text": "United Macedonia\n\nUnited Macedonia (, \"Obedineta Makedonija\"), or Greater Macedonia (, \"Golema Makedonija\"), is an irredentist concept among ethnic Macedonian nationalists that aims to unify the transnational region of Macedonia in southeastern Europe (which they claim as their homeland and which they assert was wrongfully divided under the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913) into a single state that would be dominated by ethnic Macedonians but all individuals in all ethnic groups, such as Greek Macedonians and Albanian Macedonians, would have equal rights and protection under the law. The proposed capital of such a United Macedonia is the city of Thessaloniki or Salonika (\"Solun\" in the Slavic languages) in Greek Macedonia, which ethnic Macedonians and the Yugoslav leader Tito had always dreamed of incorporating into their own states (along with the hinterland of Greek Macedonia, which they came to call Aegean Macedonia).\n\nThe concept of a united Macedonian region appeared initially in the late 19th century as variant called \"authonomous Macedonia\" in the documents of the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization. The organization was founded in 1893 in Ottoman Thessaloniki by a small band of anti-Ottoman Macedono-Bulgarian revolutionaries, which considered Macedonia an indivisible territory and claimed all of its inhabitants \"Macedonians\", no matter their religion or ethnicity. The idea then was strictly political and did not imply a secession from Bulgarian ethnicity, but unity of all nationalities in the area. The term \"United Macedonia\" has been in use since the early 1900s, notably in connection with the Balkan Socialist Federation. In the aftermatch of the First World War the conservative (pro-Bulgarian) fraction of the IMRO developed an agenda for an autonomous Macedonia, as it was a way for an unification with Bulgaria. Ivan Mihailov and Alexander Protogerov, who assumed IMRO's leadership after Todor Alexandrov's death in 1924, changed the main task for an autonomous Macedonian state under Bulgarian control. By 1928, Mihailov proposed a new plan calling for unification of a pre-1913 Macedonia region into a single state, that would be autonomous from Bulgaria. Undergoing various transformations, the original organization was suppressed in the 1930s, at which time the territory of the current Republic of Macedonia was part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In 1944 the IMRO tried to create some form of independent state. According to Yugoslav communist Svetozar Vukmanović the slogan about a united Macedonia first appeared in the manifesto of the HQ of the National Liberation of Army Macedonia, at the beginning of October 1943. During the following operations of the National Liberation War of Macedonia the Communist combatants developed aspirations over the geographic region of Macedonia that continued during the Greek Civil War.\n\nIn the modern era, ethnic Macedonian nationalists have called for a \"United Macedonia\" since 1989, reading \"Solun (Thessaloniki) is ours\" and \"We fight for a United Macedonia\". Several maps depicting \"United Macedonia\" as an independent country which constitute clear evidence of irredentist claims of Macedonian nationalists against both Greek and Bulgarian territory circulated since the late 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s. In one of those maps all of Mount Olympus was incorporated in the territory of \"United Macedonia\". The Macedonian nationalists break down the region of Macedonia as follows:\n\n\nEthnic Macedonian nationalists describe the above areas as the unliberated parts of Macedonia and they claim that the majority of the population in those territories are oppressed ethnic Macedonians. In the cases of Bulgaria and Albania, it is said that they are undercounted in the censuses (In Albania, there are officially 5,000 ethnic Macedonians, whereas Macedonians nationalists claim the figures are more like 120,000-350,000. In Bulgaria, there are officially 1,400 ethnic Macedonians, whereas Macedonian nationalists claim 200,000. In Greece, there is a Slavic-speaking minority with various self-identifications (Macedonian, Greek, Bulgarian), estimated by Ethnologue and the Greek Helsinki Monitor as being between 100,000-200,000 (according to the Greek Helsinki Monitor only an estimated 10,000-30,000 have an ethnic Macedonian national identity). The Macedonian government, led by nationalist party VMRO–DPMNE, claimed that there is a Macedonian minority numbering up to 750,000.\n\nThe roots of the concept can be traced back to 1910. One of the main platforms from the First Balkan Socialist Conference in 1910 was the solution to the Macedonian Question, Georgi Dimitrov, a Bulgarian Communist politician, in 1915 writes that the creation of a \"Macedonia, which was split into three parts, was to be reunited into a single state enjoying equal rights within the framework of the Balkan Democratic Federation\".\n\nThe concept of a united Macedonia was used by revolutionaries from the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) too. In 1920-1934 their leaders - Todor Alexandrov, Aleksandar Protogerov, Ivan Mihailov, etc., accept this concept with the aim to liberate the territories occupied by Serbia and Greece and to create an independent Macedonia. The Bulgarian government of Alexander Malinov in 1918 offered to give Pirin Macedonia to such a united Macedonia after World War I, but the Great Powers did not adopt this idea, because Serbia and Greece opposed. In 1924, the Communist International suggested that all Balkan communist parties adopt a platform of a \"united Macedonia\" but the suggestion was rejected by the Bulgarian and Greek communists.\n\nThe idea of a united Macedonia under communist rule was abandoned in 1948 when the Greek communists lost in the Greek Civil War, and Tito fell out with the Soviet Union and pro-Soviet Bulgaria.\n\nIn its first resolution, VMRO–DPMNE, the nationalistic governing party of the Republic of Macedonia, adopted the platform of a \"United Macedonia\", an act that has annoyed moderate ethnic Macedonian politicians and has also been regarded by Greece as an intolerable irredentist claim against Macedonia, its northern province.\n\nBefore and just after the Republic of Macedonia's independence, it was assumed in Greece that the idea of a united Macedonia was still state-sponsored. In the constitution of the newly independent Republic of Macedonia, adopted on 17 November 1991, Article 49 read as follows:\n\nOn 13 September 1995, the Republic of Macedonia signed an Interim Accord with Greece in order to end the economic embargo Greece had imposed, amongst other reasons, for the perceived land claims. Amongst its provisions, the Accord specified that Macedonia would renounce all land claims to neighbouring states' territories.\n\nThe United Macedonia concept is still found among official sources in the Republic, and taught in schools through school textbooks and through other governmental publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "13522876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13522876", "title": "Universal College Application", "text": "Universal College Application\n\nThe Universal College Application (also known as the Universal College App) is a US-based organization which provides college admission applications that allows students to apply to any of the participating colleges.\n\nThe for-profit Universal College Application is accepted by 34 higher education institutions in the United States (as of December 2016). It was started in 2007. Varied numbers of institutions accept this application; 77 used the service in 2010. In addition to the Universal College Application, a school may have its own application materials. The Universal College Application was created for use by any size or type of higher education institution.\n\nOne intention of the Universal College Application is to save time and work for students by letting them submit the same application to any of the participating colleges. This is similar to the more popular Common Application, the Universal College Application's main competitor. Most of the schools participating in the Universal College Application also accept the Common Application.\n\nUnlike some of its competitors, the Universal College Application does not try to reflect a certain educational philosophy. Besides fees, the Universal College Application's only demand for schools to participate is for them to be accredited and uphold the National Association for College Admission Counseling's \"Statement of Principles of Good Practice\".\n\nThe Universal College App consists of five main data entry pages, which students must complete in order to submit their application online. The Universal College App also contains a page where students choose the college or colleges to which they want to apply.\n\nIn addition to the Universal College App, which can be submitted online or by mail, students may be required to submit, among other things, their college admission test scores (SAT or ACT), a School Report, an Instructor Recommendation, and a Midyear Report by mail.\n\nThe application fees are the same as any other application accepted by a participating college. The application fees are paid directly to the selected colleges according to their requirement. There is no extra charge to apply using the Universal College Application.\n\n"}
{"id": "32085048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085048", "title": "White gods", "text": "White gods\n\nWhite gods is the belief that ancient cultures around the world were visited by Caucasian races in ancient times, and that they were known as \"White gods\".\n\nBased on 16th-century accounts of the Spanish conquistadors being \"greeted as gods\" by the peoples of the New World, certain modern authors have expanded the concept beyond what is historically verifiable, spreading it to the genre of pseudoarchaeological literature and fringe theorists, such as writers on ancient astronauts or Atlantis, in some instances (such as Christian Identity) even acquiring quasi-religious or racialist (white supremacist) connotations.\nSome authors have claimed that white missionaries or \"gods\" visited America before Christopher Columbus. Authors usually quote from mythology and legends which discuss ancient gods such as Quetzalcoatl to conclude that the legends were actually based on Caucasians visiting those areas, and that the Caucasians were really the gods.\n\nSpanish chroniclers from the 16th century claimed that when the conquistadors led by Francisco Pizarro first encountered the Incas they were greeted as gods, \"Viracochas\", because their lighter skin resembled their god named Viracocha. This story was first reported by Pedro Cieza de León (1553) and later by Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa. Similar accounts by Spanish chroniclers (e.g. Juan de Betanzos) describe Viracocha as a \"White God\", often with a beard.\n\nRupert Furneaux also linked \"White gods\" to the ancient city of Tiahuanaco.\n\nColonel A. Braghine in his 1940 book \"The Shadow of Atlantis\" claimed that the Carib people have reports and legends of a white bearded man whom they called \"Tamu\" or \"Zune\" who had come from the East, taught the people agriculture and later disappeared in an \"easterly direction\". Braghine also claimed Manco Cápac was a white bearded man. The Atlantis author Gerd von Hassler linked the \"White gods\" to the biblical flood.\n\nThe archaeologist Pierre Honoré in 1962 proposed the fringe theory that the pre-Columbian Mesoamerican civilizations were due to \"white men from the vicinity of Crete\".\n\nThe writer Robert F. Marx has written extensively about the concept of \"White gods\". Marx came to the conclusion that white gods \"figure in almost every indigenous culture in the Americas.\"\n\nThe British writer Harold T. Wilkins took the concept of the white gods the furthest, writing that a vanished white race had occupied the whole of South America in ancient times. Wilkins also claimed that Quetzalcoatl was from Atlantis.\n\nThe occultist James H. Madole, influenced by Aryanism and Hinduism, wrote that the Aryan race was of great antiquity and had been worshipped worldwide by lower races as \"white gods\". Madole also wrote that the Aryans originated in the Garden of Eden located in North America.\n\nSome modern scholars consider the \"White God legends\" to be a post-conquest Spanish invention and that the ideas are based on pseudoscience.\n\nSome Mormons believe that Quetzalcoatl, a figure described as white and bearded, who came from the sky and promised to return, was likely Jesus Christ. According to the scriptural account recorded in the Book of Mormon, Jesus Christ visited and taught natives of the Americas following his resurrection, and regarded them as the \"other sheep\" whom he had referenced during his mortal ministry. The Book of Mormon also claims that Jesus Christ appeared to others, following his resurrection, even to the inhabitants on the \"isles of the sea.\" With regard to the Mexican legend, LDS Church President John Taylor wrote:\n\nThe story of the life of the Mexican divinity, Quetzalcoatl, closely resembles that of the Savior; so closely, indeed, that we can come to no other conclusion than that Quetzalcoatl and Christ are the same being.\nThis idea was adapted by Mormon science fiction author Orson Scott Card in his story \"America\".\n\nSome Ancient astronaut and UFO writers have claimed the \"white gods\" were actually extraterrestrials. Peter Kolosimo believed that the legends of Quetzalcoatl had a basis in fact. He claimed that the legends actually describe a race of white men who were born in spaceships and migrated to Atlantis; then, after Atlantis was destroyed, they moved to the Americas to be treated as \"white gods\" by the \"primitive earth-dwellers\".\n\n\n"}
