{"id": "27759167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27759167", "title": "AZFinText", "text": "AZFinText\n\nArizona Financial Text System (AZFinText) is a textual-based quantitative financial prediction system written by Robert P. Schumaker of University of Texas at Tyler and Hsinchun Chen of the University of Arizona. \n\nThis system differs from other systems in that it uses financial text as one of its key means of predicting stock price movement. This reduces the information lag-time problem evident in many similar systems where new information must be transcribed (e.g., such as losing a costly court battle or having a product recall), before the quant can react appropriately. AZFinText overcomes these limitations by utilizing the terms used in financial news articles to predict future stock prices twenty minutes after the news article has been released. \n\nIt is believed that certain article terms can move stocks more than others. Terms such as \"factory exploded\" or \"workers strike\" will have a depressing effect on stock prices whereas terms such as \"earnings rose\" will tend to increase stock prices. \n\nWhen a human trading expert sees certain terms, they will react in a somewhat predictable fashion. AZFinText capitalizes on the arbitrage opportunities that exist when investment experts over and under-react to certain news stories. By analyzing breaking financial news articles and focusing on specific parts of speech, portfolio selection, term weighting and even article sentiment, the AZFinText system becomes a powerful tool and is a radically different way of looking at stock market prediction.\n\nThe foundation of AZFinText can be found in the ACM TOIS article. Within this paper, the authors tested several different prediction models and linguistic textual representations. From this work, it was found that using the article terms and the price of the stock at the time the article was released was the most effective model and using proper nouns was the most effective textual representation technique. Combining the two, AZFinText netted a 2.84% trading return over the five-week study period.\n\nAZFinText was then extended to study what combination of peer organizations help to best train the system. Using the premise that IBM has more in common with Microsoft than GM, AZFinText studied the effect of varying peer-based training sets. To do this, AZFinText trained on the various levels of GICS and evaluated the results. It was found that sector-based training was most effective, netting an 8.50% trading return, outperforming Jim Cramer, Jim Jubak and DayTraders.com during the study period. AZFinText was also compared against the top 10 quantitative systems and outperformed 6 of them.\n\nA third study investigated the role of portfolio building in a textual financial prediction system. From this study, Momentum and Contrarian stock portfolios were created and tested. Using the premise that past winning stocks will continue to win and past losing stocks will continue to lose, AZFinText netted a 20.79% return during the study period. It was also noted that traders were generally overreacting to news events, creating the opportunity of abnormal returns. \n\nA fourth study looked into using author sentiment as an added predictive variable. Using the premise that an author can unwittingly influence market trades simply by the terms they use, AZFinText was tested using tone and polarity features. It was found that Contrarian activity was occurring within the market, where articles of a positive tone would decrease in price and articles of a negative tone would increase in price.\n\nA further study investigated what article verbs have the most influence on stock price movement. From this work, it was found that \"planted\", \"announcing\", \"front\", \"smaller\" and \"crude\" had the highest positive impact on stock price.\n\nAZFinText has been the topic of discussion by numerous media outlets. Some of the more notable ones include the Wall Street Journal, Slashdot, MIT's Technology Review, Motley Fool, Crossing Wall Street, WBIR in Knoxville, TN and Motherboard TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "30285970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30285970", "title": "Abdul Jalil Shah III of Johor", "text": "Abdul Jalil Shah III of Johor\n\nSultan Abdul Jalil Shah III ibni Almarhum Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah III was the 7th Sultan of Johor who reigned from 1623 to 1677. Known as \"Raja Bujang\" before his accession, he was a son of the 5th Sultan, Alauddin Riayat Shah III and a nephew of the 6th Sultan, Abdullah Ma'ayat Shah.\n\nIn 1615, Alauddin Riayat Shah III signed a peace treaty with the Portuguese Malacca, and as a sign of gratitude, the Portuguese recognised Raja Bujang as the ruler of Pahang, replacing Alauddin Riayat Shah who was deposed earlier in 1615 by the Acehnese. However, the appointment was not recognised by Sultan Iskandar Muda of Acheh, which later invaded Pahang and forced Raja Bujang to flee to the islands of Lingga. At the same time, the Achehnese waged war with the new Sultan of Johor, Abdullah Ma'ayat Shah who was also forced to flee to Lingga. As the Achehnese attacks continued, Raja Bujang and Sultan Abdullah fled once again to Tambelan archipelago. When Sultan Abdullah died in 1623, Acheh reconciled with Raja Bujang and appointed him as the new Sultan of Johor and Pahang.\n\nThe strength of Acheh was brought to an end with a disastrous campaign against Malacca in 1629, when the combined Portuguese and Johor forces managed to destroy the fleet and 19,000 Achehnese troops according to Portuguese account. Johor later grew stronger and formed an alliance with the Dutch to attack the Portuguese Malacca and conquered it on January 14, 1641, ending the triangular war. Subsequently in the following month, Iskandar Thani of Acheh died and was succeeded by Queen Taj ul-Alam. Her reign marks the beginning of decline of Acheh position as a regional power. \n\nIn 1641, Sultan Abdul Jalil Shah III moved to the mainland Johor and established his new capital in Makam Tauhid. He spent two years of his reign in Makam Tauhid before he crossed the Damar river to establish his new capital in Pasir Raja (also known as Batu Sawar) in October 1642. \n\nJambi emerged as a regional economic and political power in the early 17th century. Initially there was an attempt of an alliance between Johor and Jambi with a promised marriage between the heir Raja Muda and daughter of the \"Pengeran\" of Jambi. However, the Raja Muda married instead the daughter of the Laksamana, who was concerned about the dilution of power from such an alliance and so offered his own daughter for marriage. The alliance broke down, and between 1666-1679, a long war erupted and Jambi successfully sacked the Johor capital in Batu Sawar in 1673. Sultan Abdul Jalil Shah III fled to Pahang and made it as his administration centre for four years before he died in Kuala Pahang in 1677.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "58495238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58495238", "title": "Adam Marshall (priest)", "text": "Adam Marshall (priest)\n\nAdam Marshall (November 18, 1785 – September 20, 1825) was an American Catholic priest and Jesuit. He briefly served as president of Washington Seminary, and later became the first Catholic chaplain in the United States Navy, albeit unofficially.\n\nAdam Marshall was born on November 18, 1785 in Conewago, Pennsylvania, to Francis Marshall and Ann Margaret Staub; he had two sisters named Margaret and Catherine. As a Jesuit priest, he first served in 1818 at St. Patrick's Church in York, Pennsylvania, and later worked in New York, the southern counties of Maryland, and at Georgetown College in Washington, D.C.\n\nMarshall became the most powerful figure in the Jesuit mission in Maryland, eventually becoming the Procurator of the Corporation of Roman Catholic Clergymen of Maryland during the suppression of the Society of Jesus.\n\nIn 1822, he was stationed at Washington Seminary (which later became Gonzaga College High School) and was placed in charge of the worldly affairs of the Jesuit mission in Maryland. In the beginning of 1824, Marshall was appointed the second president of Washington Seminary, succeeding Anthony Kohlmann. During his presidency, the students of the Seminary partook in the first civic procession in Washington by joining in the commemoration of the Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of July of 1824. While president, Marshall also gave a speech at Georgetown College during a reception for the Marquis de Lafayette, with his students in attendance.\n\nMarshall became ill with tuberculosis that affected his lungs. His physicians advised that he take a reprieve from duties at the school and recommended he undertake a sea voyage. Through the intervention of Commodore John Rogers, whose two sons were students at Gonzaga, Marshall obtained a position in the United States Navy. He was succeeded as president of the school by William Matthews.\n\nMarshall was commissioned an officer in 1824 and was assigned to the USS \"North Carolina\", a ship of the line. His official position was schoolmaster to the midshipmen, but he unofficially doubled as chaplain to the Catholic sailors, making him the first Catholic chaplain in the United States Navy. The religious services on board were conducted by an Episcopalian minister whose sermons Marshall noted that he admired, and Marshall was not permitted to say Mass; rather, his duty was to counsel and hear confession.\n\nThe \"North Carolina\" left port in Norfolk, Virginia, on December 1, 1824, for a cruise of the Mediterranean. In the final entry of Marshall's diary, the lieutenant of the watch notes that while underway, at 2:30 a.m. on September 20, 1825, during the voyage from Naples to Gibraltar, the priest died of his disease. He was buried at sea at 10 a.m. with all hands on deck. On October 22, Commodore Rogers communicated the news to the Secretary of the Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "15012086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15012086", "title": "American mutilation of Japanese war dead", "text": "American mutilation of Japanese war dead\n\nDuring World War II, some members of the United States military mutilated dead Japanese service personnel in the Pacific theater of operations. The mutilation of Japanese service personnel included the taking of body parts as \"war souvenirs\" and \"war trophies\". Teeth and skulls were the most commonly taken \"trophies\", although other body parts were also collected.\n\nThe phenomenon of \"trophy-taking\" was widespread enough that discussion of it featured prominently in magazines and newspapers, and Franklin Roosevelt himself was reportedly given, by U.S. Representative Francis E. Walter, a gift of a letter-opener made of a Japanese soldier's arm (Roosevelt later ordered that the gift be returned and called for its proper burial). The behavior was officially prohibited by the U.S. military, which issued additional guidance as early as 1942 condemning it specifically. Nonetheless, the behavior continued throughout the war in the Pacific Theater, and has resulted in continued discoveries of \"trophy skulls\" of Japanese combatants in American possession, as well as American and Japanese efforts to repatriate the remains of the Japanese dead.\n\nA number of firsthand accounts, including those of American servicemen, attest to the taking of \"trophies\" from the corpses of Imperial Japanese troops in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Historians have attributed the phenomenon to a campaign of dehumanization of the Japanese in the U.S. media, to various racist tropes latent in American society, to the depravity of warfare under desperate circumstances, to the inhuman cruelty of Imperial Japanese forces, lust for revenge, or any combination of those factors. The taking of so-called \"trophies\" was widespread enough that, by September 1942, the Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet ordered that \"No part of the enemy's body may be used as a souvenir\", and any American servicemen violating that principle would face \"stern disciplinary action\".\n\nTrophy skulls are the most notorious of the souvenirs. Teeth, ears and other such body parts were occasionally modified, for example by writing on them or fashioning them into utilities or other artifacts.\n\nEugene Sledge relates a few instances of fellow Marines extracting gold teeth from the Japanese, including one from an enemy soldier who was still alive.\n\nBut the Japanese wasn't dead. He had been wounded severely in the back and couldn't move his arms; otherwise he would have resisted to his last breath. The Japanese's mouth glowed with huge gold-crowned teeth, and his captor wanted them. He put the point of his kabar on the base of a tooth and hit the handle with the palm of his hand. Because the Japanese was kicking his feet and thrashing about, the knife point glanced off the tooth and sank deeply into the victim's mouth. The Marine cursed him and with a slash cut his cheeks open to each ear. He put his foot on the sufferer's lower jaw and tried again. Blood poured out of the soldier's mouth. He made a gurgling noise and thrashed wildly. I shouted, “Put the man out of his misery.” All I got for an answer was a cussing out. Another Marine ran up, put a bullet in the enemy soldier's brain, and ended his agony. The scavenger grumbled and continued extracting his prizes undisturbed. \n\nU.S. Marine veteran Donald Fall attributed the mutilation of enemy corpses to hatred and desire for vengeance:\nOn the second day of Guadalcanal we captured a big Jap bivouac with all kinds of beer and supplies ... But they also found a lot of pictures of Marines that had been cut up and mutilated on Wake Island. The next thing you know there are Marines walking around with Jap ears stuck on their belts with safety pins. They issued an order reminding Marines that mutilation was a court-martial offense ... You get into a nasty frame of mind in combat. You see what's been done to you. You'd find a dead Marine that the Japs had booby-trapped. We found dead Japs that were booby-trapped. And they mutilated the dead. We began to get down to their level.\n\nAnother example of mutilation was related by Ore Marion, a U.S. Marine who suggested,\nWe learned about savagery from the Japanese ... But those sixteen-to-nineteen-year old kids we had on the Canal were fast learners ... At daybreak, a couple of our kids, bearded, dirty, skinny from hunger, slightly wounded by bayonets, clothes worn and torn, wack off three Jap heads and jam them on poles facing the 'Jap side' of the river ... The colonel sees Jap heads on the poles and says, 'Jesus men, what are you doing? You're acting like animals.' A dirty, stinking young kid says, 'That's right Colonel, we are animals. We live like animals, we eat and are treated like animals–what the fuck do you expect?'\n\nOn February 1, 1943, \"Life\" magazine published a photograph taken by Ralph Morse during the Guadalcanal campaign showing a severed Japanese head that U.S. Marines had propped up below the gun turret of a tank. \"Life\" received letters of protest from people \"in disbelief that American soldiers were capable of such brutality toward the enemy.\" The editors responded that \"war is unpleasant, cruel, and inhuman. And it is more dangerous to forget this than to be shocked by reminders.\" However, the image of the severed head generated less than half the amount of protest letters that an image of a mistreated cat in the very same issue received. Years later, Morse recounted that when his platoon came upon the tank with the head mounted on it, the sergeant warned his men not to approach it as it might have been set up by the Japanese in order to lure them in for a look. He feared that the Japanese might have a mortar tube zeroed in on it. Morse recalled the scene in this way, \"'Everybody stay away from there,' the sergeant says, then he turns to me. 'You,' he says, 'go take your picture if you have to, then get out, quick.' So I went over, got my pictures and ran like hell back to where the patrol had stopped.\"\n\nIn October 1943, the U.S. High Command expressed alarm over recent newspaper articles, for example one where a soldier made a string of beads using Japanese teeth, and another about a soldier with pictures showing the steps in preparing a skull, involving cooking and scraping of the Japanese heads.\n\nIn 1944, the American poet Winfield Townley Scott was working as a reporter in Rhode Island when a sailor displayed his skull trophy in the newspaper office. This led to the poem \"The U.S. sailor with the Japanese skull\", which described one method for preparation of skulls (the head is skinned, towed in a net behind a ship to clean and polish it, and in the end scrubbed with caustic soda).\n\nCharles Lindbergh refers in his diary entries to several instances of mutilations. For example, in the entry for August 14, 1944, he notes a conversation he had with a Marine officer, who claimed that he had seen many Japanese corpses with an ear or nose cut off. In the case of the skulls however, most were not collected from freshly killed Japanese; most came from already partially or fully skeletonised Japanese bodies. Lindbergh also noted in his diary his experiences from an air base in New Guinea, where according to him the troops killed the remaining Japanese stragglers \"as a sort of hobby\" and often used their leg-bones to carve utilities.\n\nMoro Muslim guerillas on Mindanao fought against Japan in World War II. The Moro Muslim Datu Pino sliced the ears off Japanese soldiers and cashed them in with the American guerilla leader Colonel Fertig at the exchange rate of a pair of ears for one bullet and 20 centavos.\n\nAccording to Weingartner it is not possible to determine the percentage of U.S. troops that collected Japanese body parts, \"but it is clear that the practice was not uncommon\". According to Harrison only a minority of U.S. troops collected Japanese body parts as trophies, but \"their behaviour reflected attitudes which were very widely shared\". According to Dower, most U.S. combatants in the Pacific did not engage in \"souvenir hunting\" for bodyparts. The majority had some knowledge that these practices were occurring, however, and \"accepted them as inevitable under the circumstances\". The incidence of soldiers collecting Japanese body parts occurred on \"a scale large enough to concern the Allied military authorities throughout the conflict and was widely reported and commented on in the American and Japanese wartime press\". The degree of acceptance of the practice varied between units. Taking of teeth was generally accepted by enlisted men and also by officers, while acceptance for taking other body parts varied greatly. In the experience of one serviceman turned author, Weinstein, ownership of skulls and teeth were widespread practices.\n\nWhen interviewed by researchers former servicemen have related to the practice of taking gold teeth from the dead – and sometimes also from the living – as having been widespread.\n\nThere is some disagreement between historians over what the more common forms of 'trophy hunting' undertaken by U.S. personnel were. John W. Dower states that ears were the most common form of trophy that was taken, and skulls and bones were less commonly collected. In particular he states that \"skulls were not popular trophies\" as they were difficult to carry and the process for removing the flesh was offensive. This view is supported by Simon Harrison. In contrast, Niall Ferguson states that \"boiling the flesh off enemy [Japanese] skulls to make souvenirs was not an uncommon practice. Ears, bones and teeth were also collected\".\n\nThe collection of Japanese body parts began quite early in the campaign, prompting a September 1942 order for disciplinary action against such souvenir taking. Harrison concludes that since this was the first real opportunity to take such items (the Battle of Guadalcanal), \"Clearly, the collection of body parts on a scale large enough to concern the military authorities had started as soon as the first living or dead Japanese bodies were encountered.\" When Charles Lindbergh passed through customs at Hawaii in 1944, one of the customs declarations he was asked to make was whether or not he was carrying any bones. He was told after expressing some shock at the question that it had become a routine point. This was because of the large number of souvenir bones discovered in customs, also including “green” (uncured) skulls.\n\nIn 1984, Japanese soldiers' remains were repatriated from the Mariana Islands. Roughly 60 percent were missing their skulls. Likewise it has been reported that many of the Japanese remains on Iwo Jima are missing their skulls. It is possible that the souvenir collection of remains continued also in the immediate post-war period.\n\nAccording to Simon Harrison, all of the \"trophy skulls\" from the World War II era in the forensic record in the U.S., attributable to an ethnicity, are of Japanese origin; none come from Europe (a seemingly rare exception to this rule was the case of a German soldier scalped by an American soldier, falsely attributed to a Winnebago tribal custom. Films shot by the Special Film Project 186 near Prague, Czechoslovakia, on May 8, 1945, display an M4 Sherman with a skull and bones fixed to it). Skulls from World War II, and also from the Vietnam War, continue turning up in the U.S., sometimes returned by former servicemen or their relatives, or discovered by police. According to Harrison, contrary to the situation in average head-hunting societies, the trophies do not fit in American society. While the taking of the objects was socially accepted at the time, after the war, when the Japanese in time became seen as fully human again, the objects for the most part became seen as unacceptable and unsuitable for display. Therefore, in time they and the practice that had generated them were largely forgotten.\n\nAustralian soldiers also mutilated Japanese bodies at times, most commonly by taking gold teeth from corpses. This was officially discouraged by the Australian Army. Johnston states that \"one could argue that greed rather than hatred was the motive\" for this behavior, but \"utter contempt for the enemy was also present\". Australians are also known to have taken gold teeth from German corpses, \"but the practice was obviously more common in the South-West Pacific\". \"The vast majority of Australians clearly found such behaviour abhorrent, but \"some of the soldiers who engaged in it were not 'hard cases'. According to Johnston, Australian soldiers' \"unusually murderous behavior\" towards their Japanese opponents (such as killing prisoners) was caused by racism, a lack of understanding of Japanese military culture and, most significantly, a desire to take revenge against the murder and mutilation of Australian prisoners and native New Guineans during the Battle of Milne Bay and subsequent battles.\n\nFrom the Burma Campaign, there are recorded instances of British troops removing gold teeth and displaying Japanese skulls as trophies.\n\nIn the U.S., there was a widely propagated view that the Japanese were subhuman. There was also popular anger in the U.S. at the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, amplifying pre-war racial prejudices. The U.S. media helped propagate this view of the Japanese, for example describing them as \"yellow vermin\". In an official U.S. Navy film, Japanese troops were described as \"living, snarling rats\". The mixture of underlying American racism, which was added to by U.S. wartime propaganda, hatred caused by the Japanese war of aggression, and both real and also fabricated Japanese atrocities, led to a general loathing of the Japanese. Although there were objections to the mutilation from among other military jurists, \"to many Americans the Japanese adversary was no more than an animal, and abuse of his remains carried with it no moral stigma.\n\nAccording to Niall Ferguson: \"To the historian who has specialized in German history, this is one of the most troubling aspects of the Second World War: the fact that Allied troops often regarded the Japanese in the same way that Germans regarded Russians — as \"Untermenschen\".\" Since the Japanese were regarded as animals, it is not surprising that Japanese remains were treated in the same way as animal remains.\n\nSimon Harrison comes to the conclusion in his paper, \"Skull trophies of the Pacific War: transgressive objects of remembrance\", that the minority of U.S. personnel who collected Japanese skulls did so because they came from a society that placed much value in hunting as a symbol of masculinity, combined with a de-humanization of the enemy.\n\nWar correspondent Ernie Pyle, on a trip to Saipan after the invasion, claimed that the men who actually fought the Japanese did not subscribe to the wartime propaganda: \"Soldiers and Marines have told me stories by the dozen about how tough the Japs are, yet how dumb they are; how illogical and yet how uncannily smart at times; how easy to rout when disorganized, yet how brave ... As far as I can see, our men are no more afraid of the Japs than they are of the Germans. They are afraid of them as a modern soldier is afraid of his foe, but not because they are slippery or rat-like, but simply because they have weapons and fire them like good, tough soldiers.\"\n\nSome writers and veterans state that body parts trophy and souvenir taking was a side effect of the brutalizing effects of a harsh campaign.\n\nHarrison argues that, while brutalization could explain part of the mutilations, this explanation does not explain servicemen who, even before shipping off for the Pacific, proclaimed their intention to acquire such objects. According to Harrison, it also does not explain the many cases of servicemen collecting the objects as gifts for people back home. Harrison concludes that there is no evidence that the average serviceman collecting this type of souvenirs was suffering from \"combat fatigue\". They were normal men who felt this was what their loved ones wanted them to collect for them. Skulls were sometimes also collected as souvenirs by non-combat personnel.\n\nA young Marine recruit, who had arrived on Saipan with his buddy Al in 1944, after the island was secure, provides an eyewitness account. After a brief firefight the night before, he and a small group of other Marines find the body of a straggler who had apparently shot himself:\n\nBergerud writes that U.S. troops hostility towards their Japanese opponents largely arose from incidents in which Japanese soldiers committed war crimes against Americans, such as the Bataan Death March and other incidents conducted by individual soldiers. For instance, Bergerud states that the U.S. Marines on Guadacanal were aware that the Japanese had beheaded some of the Marines captured on Wake Island prior to the start of the campaign. However this type of knowledge did not necessarily lead to revenge mutilations; one Marine states that they falsely thought the Japanese had not taken any prisoners at Wake Island, and therefore as revenge they killed all Japanese that tried to surrender. (see also Allied war crimes during World War II)\n\nAccording to one Marine, the earliest account of U.S. troops wearing ears from Japanese corpses he recounts took place on the second day of the Guadalcanal Campaign in August 1942 and occurred after photos of the mutilated bodies of Marines on Wake Island were found in Japanese engineers' personal effects. The account of the same Marine also states that Japanese troops booby-trapped some of their own dead as well as some dead Marines, and also mutilated corpses; the effect on Marines being \"We began to get down to their level\". According to Bradley A. Thayer, referring to Bergerud and interviews conducted by Bergerud, the behaviors of American and Australian soldiers were affected by \"intense fear, coupled with a powerful lust for revenge\".\n\nWeingartner writes however that U.S. Marines were intent on taking gold teeth and making keepsakes of Japanese ears already while en route to Guadalcanal.\n\nFactors relevant to the collection of body parts were their economic value, the desire both of the \"folks back home\" for a souvenir and of the servicemen themselves to have a keepsake when they returned home.\n\nSome of the collected souvenir bones were modified, e.g. turned into letter-openers, and may be an extension of trench art.\n\nPictures showing the \"cooking and scraping\" of Japanese heads may have formed part of the large set of Guadalcanal photographs sold to sailors which were circulating on the U.S. West-coast. According to Paul Fussel, pictures showing this type of activity, i.e. boiling human heads; \"were taken (and preserved for a lifetime) because the Marines were proud of their success\".\n\nAccording to Weingartner, some of the U.S. Marines who were about to take part in the Guadalcanal Campaign were already while en route looking forward to collecting Japanese gold teeth for necklaces and to preserving Japanese ears as souvenirs.\n\nIn many cases (and unexplainable by battlefield conditions) the collected body parts were not for the use of the collector but were instead meant to be gifts to family and friends at home, in some cases as the result of specific requests from home. Newspapers reported of cases such as a mother requesting permission for her son to send her an ear or a bribed chaplain that was promised by an underage youth \"the third pair of ears he collected\". A better-known example of those servicemen who left for battle already planning to send home a trophy is the \"Life Magazine\" picture of the week, whose caption begins:\n\nAnother example of this type of press is \"Yank\", that in early 1943 published a cartoon showing the parents of a soldier receiving a pair of ears from their son. In 1942 Alan Lomax recorded a blues song where a black soldier promises to send his child a Japanese skull, and a tooth. Harrison also makes note of the Congressman that gave President Roosevelt a letter-opener carved out of bone as examples of the social range of these attitudes.\n\nTrade sometimes occurred with the items, such as \"members of the Naval Construction Battalions stationed on Guadalcanal selling Japanese skulls to merchant seamen\" as reported in an Allied intelligence report from early 1944. Sometimes teeth (particularly the less common gold teeth) were also seen as a trade-able commodity.\n\n\"Stern disciplinary action\" against human remains souvenir taking was ordered by the Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet as early as September 1942. In October 1943 General George C. Marshall radioed General Douglas MacArthur about \"his concern over current reports of atrocities committed by American soldiers\". In January 1944 the Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a directive against the taking of Japanese body parts. Simon Harrison writes that directives of this type may have been effective in some areas, \"but they seem to have been implemented only partially and unevenly by local commanders\".\nOn May 22, 1944, \"Life Magazine\" published a photo of an American girl with a Japanese skull sent to her by her naval officer boyfriend. The letters \"Life\" received from its readers in response to this photo were \"overwhelmingly condemnatory\" and the Army directed its Bureau of Public Relations to inform U.S. publishers that \"the publication of such stories would be likely to encourage the enemy to take reprisals against American dead and prisoners of war\". The junior officer who had sent the skull was also traced and officially reprimanded. This was done reluctantly however, and the punishment was not severe.\n\nThe \"Life\" photo also led to the U.S. Military taking further action against the mutilation of Japanese corpses. In a memorandum dated June 13, 1944, the Army JAG asserted that \"such atrocious and brutal policies\" in addition to being repugnant also were violations of the laws of war, and recommended the distribution to all commanders of a directive pointing out that \"the maltreatment of enemy war dead was a blatant violation of the 1929 Geneva Convention on the Sick and Wounded, which provided that: After each engagement, the occupant of the field of battle shall take measures to search for the wounded and dead, and to protect them against pillage and maltreatment.\" Such practices were in addition also in violation of the unwritten customary rules of land warfare and could lead to the death penalty. The Navy JAG mirrored that opinion one week later, and also added that \"the atrocious conduct of which some U.S. servicemen were guilty could lead to retaliation by the Japanese which would be justified under international law\".\n\nOn June 13, 1944, the press reported that President Roosevelt had been presented with a letter-opener made out of a Japanese soldier's arm bone by Francis E. Walter, a Democratic congressman. Supposedly, the president commented, \"This is the sort of gift I like to get\", and \"There'll be plenty more such gifts\". Several weeks later it was reported that it had been given back with the explanation that the President did not want this type of object and recommended it be buried instead. In doing so, Roosevelt was acting in response to the concerns which had been expressed by the military authorities and some of the civilian population, including church leaders.\n\nIn October 1944, the Right Rev. Henry St. George Tucker, the Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, issued a statement which deplored \"'isolated' acts of desecration with respect to the bodies of slain Japanese soldiers and appealed to American soldiers as a group to discourage such actions on the part of individuals\".\n\nNews that President Roosevelt had been given a bone letter-opener by a congressman was widely reported in Japan. The Americans were portrayed as \"deranged, primitive, racist and inhuman\". This reporting was compounded by the previous May 22, 1944, \"Life\" magazine picture of the week publication of a young woman with a skull trophy, which was reprinted in the Japanese media and presented as a symbol of American barbarism, causing national shock and outrage. Edwin P. Hoyt in \"Japan's War: The Great Pacific Conflict\" argues that two U.S. media reports of Japanese skulls and bones being sent home were exploited by Japanese propaganda very effectively, and this coupled to the Shinto religion, which places much higher emotional value on the treatment of human remains, contributed to a preference to death over surrender and occupation, shown, for example, in the mass civilian suicides on Saipan and Okinawa after the Allied landings. According to Hoyt, \"The thought of a Japanese soldier's skull becoming an American ashtray was as horrifying in Tokyo as the thought of an American prisoner used for bayonet practice was in New York.\"\n\nSome historians argue that a similar pattern of Asian dehumanization persisted in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, even though, like World War II, Asians were on both sides of those wars. In Vietnam, the supposed \"Mere Gook Rule\" allowed soldiers to harm or kill South Vietnamese citizens with little fear of punishment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46658727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46658727", "title": "Android 18", "text": "Android 18\n\n, born as Lazuli (ラズリ Razuri) is a fictional character in the \"Dragon Ball\" manga series created by Akira Toriyama. Android 18 makes her debut in chapter #349 The Androids Awake! (目覚めた17号、18号, Mezameta Jūnanagō, Jūhachigō), first published in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" on November 12, 1991.\n\nShe and her twin brother, Android 17, were forcibly turned into cyborgs by Dr. Gero to serve his vendetta against Goku. The present-timeline version of the character has very little to no interest in fulfilling Gero's orders and becomes a major character in the series after marrying Goku's best friend Krillin.\n\nIn an alternate timeline, Android 18 is a ruthless killer who started a reign of terror along with Android 17 over Earth that lasted for twenty years until they are destroyed by Trunks.\n\nPrior to their introductions and present in both timelines, Androids #17 and #18 were converted into androids by Dr. Gero with the intent of murdering Goku. In the main timeline, Android 18 is activated by Dr. Gero along with Android 17 after he returns to his laboratory following his unsuccessful attempt to defeat Goku's allies. After Gero is killed by Android 17, Android 18 activates Android 16 following surviving a blast meant to kill her from Trunks and the three begin their quest to find and kill Goku. When they encounter Vegeta, Android 18 decides to fight him and easily bests him in battle, receiving only damages to her clothing and breaking his arm. When Trunks, Tenshinhan and Piccolo become involved, she and Android 17 easily defeat the trio. Before leaving to continue her quest, she kisses Krillin on the cheek. The androids go to Goku's home and do not discover him there, leading them to journey to Kame-Sennin's house, but they do not find him there either due to his having departed not long before. 18 watches Android 17's battle against Piccolo, at one point becoming impatient and offering her assistance to her brother's decline, until Cell arrives, who reveals his intent to absorb the pair. Piccolo is dispatched by Cell and Android 17 is absorbed, Android 18 nearly being convinced to be absorbed as well by Cell's impersonation of Android 17 until he mistakenly mischaracterizes him. Androids 18 and 16 are given time to escape thanks to Tenshinhan holding Cell back. She and Android 16 hide on an island after this, where she refuses to leave his side and watches Vegeta's fight against Cell before Krillin approaches her with a remote to turn her off. He destroys it, realizing his love for her, and Android 18 is soon afterwards absorbed by Cell who blinds everyone with , allowing him to reach his final form. For the next ten days, until the Cell Games tournament that Cell sets up following his disillusion with the strength of both Vegeta and Trunks, 18 remains trapped and unconscious inside of his body. However, a strong blow from Gohan causes him to regurgitate her. After Gohan defeats Cell, she is healed and declines Krillin's advances for the time-being, despite him using the Dragon Balls to have her self-destruct device removed.\n\nIn the alternate-timeline, Androids #18 and #17 are mass murderers whereas the main timeline versions of the pair never killed innocents. They are identical in appearance to the versions of the two in the present timeline, Android 18 wearing the ensemble she wore in the main timeline upon her activation by Dr. Gero. Within the months of their release, shortly after the death of Goku, they kill their timeline's versions of Piccolo, Vegeta, Krillin, Yamcha, Tien and Yajirobe, Gohan managing to escape. Several years later, they kill Gohan and then nearly kill Trunks three years later when he confronts the pair during one of their killing sprees. When Trunks returns from the past, now vastly stronger than he was in their previous encounter as a result of his training, she shows interest in finally ending his life after he confronts her and Android 17, but is killed by him instead.\n\nSeven years later, she has married Krillin and has a daughter with him named . She convinces Krillin to participate in the 25th Tenka'ichi Budōkai for the money along with her. Thanks to a lack of interest in being exposed as super-powered, she disguises her strength in hitting the Punching Machine, hitting it lightly and thereby altering who she is matched to fight. During the competition, she competes against Goten and Trunks when the pair enter the competition as , having stolen the identity of another competitor. After the duo reveal themselves by transforming into Super Saiyans, Android 18 wins the match by default, advancing to the next round against Mr. Satan, who she outclasses in strength, but throws the fight nonetheless after she secretly arranged to have the prize money shared with him so as not to ruin his reputation. After Majin Boo is released, thanks to the energy used by both Goku and Vegeta while the two fought, Android 18 joins the others in searching for the Dragon Balls to resurrect everyone killed by Vegeta and resides at Dende's while taking refuge. After Boo finds them the following day, kills the majority of people on Earth and escapes the Room of Spirit and Time, leaving Gotenks and Piccolo inside, Android 18 is killed alongside her daughter when they are simultaneously turned into chocolate, being eaten by him afterward. She is later brought back to life and gives energy to Goku's \"Genki-dama\", successfully destroying Majin Boo. Ten years later, 18 is last seen attending another Tenkaichi Budōkai.\n\nAndroid 18 appears in four \"Dragon Ball Z\" films; she briefly appears at the beginning of the ; In the , Android 18 tries to retrieve money from Mr. Satan that he owed her from their deal that she would lose the tournament so she would not publicly upstage him, later fighting against Bio-Broly along with Krillin, Goten and Trunks and saves civilians from being killed by him; in the , Android 18 is present at Bulma's birthday party, attempting to fight Beerus following him being enraged by Boo taking his pudding, but being defeated with a single strike to the neck; in the , she shaves Krillin's head before he goes off to fight a resurrected Freeza, being killed after Freeza destroys the planet but having her death undone when the timeline is reversed. After the events of the last two films, she informs Krillin of a supposed space picnic, leading to his investigation into the matter and she later travels off Earth to watch the tournament between the fighters from her universe and those of Universe 6. After Trunks returns from the future, he discovers Android 18 and Krillin's marriage, meeting 18 again and preparing to engage her before she greets him. Android 18 later wants to get a gift for Krillin and unsuccessfully tries using the Dragon Balls. Android 18 scolds Krillin for being injured by a bullet while he is reluctant to train with Goku, him later citing her as a factor in his choice to resume training.\n\nAndroid #18 and Krillin are approached by Goku and Gohan to join the Tournament of Power, 18 agreeing due to the 10 million Zeni reward and revealing Android #17's location. During the tournament Android 18 chooses to fight on her own, defeating Universe 9's Sorrel, Universe 4's Shosa, and Universe 11's Tupper. Rozie and Ribrianne launch a combined attack at Goku that Androids 17 and 18 deflect, the two then battling Rozie and Ribrianne. Android 18 knocks Ribrianne out of her transformation and she reverts to Brianne, who catches Android 18 in an energy trap while her comrades from Universe 2 send their love to her and enable her transforming back into Ribrianne but with an increase in size. Android 18 concedes that she is finished before hearing Krillin screaming her name from the sidelines and breaking through Ribrianne's trap. With assistance from Android 17, 18 blasts through Ribrianne's giant form and eliminates her. Universe 3's Paparoni and Koichiarator merge to form Anilaza and Goku, Gohan, Vegeta, Frieza, 17, and 18 attempt coordinating their attacks against the being. Anilaza attempts to eat 18 before Goku intervenes, and Anilaza corners Android 17 with a series of beams that lead him off the ledge of the arena. Android 18 jumps off and grabs him, telling him that the rest is up to him before kicking him back to the arena while descending to her own elimination. She apologizes to Universe 7 for being eliminated and tells Android 17 he better not lose.\n\nAndroid #18, along with Android #17, were conceived after Akira Toriyama's former editor Kazuhiko Torishima expressed disapproval with Androids #19 and #20 as villains. Following their introduction into the series, Torishima soon afterward became dissatisfied with her and #17 as well, resulting in the creation of Cell. Toriyama stated that he was pleased with Android #18 because she was a type of girl he had not drawn before, and that he liked her slanted eyes. In 2014, he revealed her real name was . Yūsuke Watanabe, who wrote the screenplay for the film \"\", had originally written the film to take place at Android #18 and Krillin's wedding, but Akira Toriyama wrote it to take place at Bulma's birthday party. Watanabe thought Toriyama made the change because he wanted fans to imagine the wedding for themselves. In promotional material for \"Battle of Gods\", Toriyama drew her with purple hair.\n\nAndroid #18, at the time of her introduction, has shoulder length blonde hair, retaining it for most of the series and \"Dragon Ball Super\". Her hairstyle is shown to have changed ten years after the defeat of Majin Buu, becoming shorter. She has this same hairstyle in \"Dragon Ball GT\".\n\nAndroid #18 is introduced wearing a denim jacket and skirt, dark blue leggings, brown boots and a black shirt with black and white sleeves. After arriving at Goku's home, she gains a new outfit, first seen when she is depicted going through his wife Chi-Chi's closet; a white short sleeve shirt underneath a black vest, a pair of blue green jeans, black gloves with a ring on the left arm and black flats with orange socks. It is never stated where the outfit originated for nor where she acquired it. During the 25th World Martial Arts Tournament, she wears a black shirt with black and white sleeves, blue jeans, and black flats with orange socks. In \"Battle of Gods\", her clothing changes again; she wears a black shirt with purple sleeves, light blue jeans, a pearl necklace with a thunder pendant embedded on it and black flats with white socks. Her attire remains mostly unchanged for the sequel \"\" apart from her no longer wearing the necklace and wearing blue boots. In \"Dragon Ball GT\", Android 18 is shown with two different outfits. The first is a red long sleeve turtleneck with black pants and red high heels with earrings. The second is a purple blazer with a pink undershirt and matching pants alongside the same red heels and earrings from earlier.\n\nIn the Japanese version of the entire \"Dragon Ball\" anime series and subsequent related media, Android 18 is voiced by Miki Itō.\n\nIn English, Android 18 is voiced by Meredith McCoy in the Funimation dub of \"Dragon Ball Z\" and \"Dragon Ball GT\" except for \"Dragon Ball Z Kai\", where she is voiced by Colleen Clinkenbeard. However, since \",\" Meredith has returned to the role.\n\nFollowing her conversion into a cyborg, Android 18 possesses superhuman strength, durability, speed and reflexes. She also has the ability to fly. Thanks to her conversion into a cyborg, she has eternal youth and unlike the other characters in the series, has energy that is not detectable with \"Ki Sense\", which causes them to not be directly found using the standard method of identifying a warrior and their strength.\n\nIn regards to her strength, upon her introduction, the main timeline version of Android 18 is shown to be able to defeat Vegeta and Trunks in their Super Saiyan forms, Piccolo and Tenshinhan, Trunks stating afterward that she is stronger than her counterpart in his timeline. This effectively makes her one of the stronger characters in the series at the time, Android 17 being said to be slightly stronger and Android 16 having more strength than both of them. Regardless, she still can easily overwhelm all of the heroes, as can her alternate timeline counterpart. However, her advantage in strength falters by the time she encounters Cell who in his first form, after absorbing a large portion of the human population and effectively increasing his power, fights on par with Android 16 and easily subdues both him and Android 18 in his second form. By the time seven years pass after Cell's defeat, Android 18 is now outclassed by Gohan, Vegeta and Piccolo, though still is stronger than the other characters. Since then, Android 18 has been easily bested by Boo and Beerus, though still is one of the most powerful characters on Earth.\n\nShe is capable of using the , a sphere energy wave she fires after drawing back her hand which is either pink or blue in color as well as a rapid-fire variation called . Android 18 also possess . Android 18 after the defeat of Cell gains the ability to use the , an attack where she creates an electric floating disc by putting her hand in the air, it is also one of Krillin's main techniques. Android 18 has several moves she performs with Android 17. Alongside him, she performs the , a move where the two cyborgs relentlessly beat an opponent before knocking them to the ground and following it up with firing their . Another attack of the duo is where the pair simultaneously fire \"Photon Strike\" and \"High-Pressure Energy Wave\".\n\nAndroid 18 is a generally well-liked character, praised for her status as the sole female character to physically compete with the male cast for a time as well as her personality. In a 2004 poll among Japanese fans, Android 18 was voted the tenth most popular character in the series. Her relationship with Krillin has also been met with favorability among commentators. Sheldon Pearce of \"Complex\" dubbed her the \"most compelling\" of the androids and credited her with keeping Krillin a relevant character after her introduction. David F. Smith of IGN believed the subplot of the relationship between Android 18 and Krillin helped to keep the Cell arc \"a little more interesting\". Smith ranked the development of the relationship #6 on his list \"Dragon Ball Z: Top 10 Plot Twists\". However, Android 18's role in the franchise past the Cell storyline has been met with mixed reception. Android 18 was ranked #4 on Santiago Rashad's list \"Top Ten Misused Dragon Ball Characters\" who felt that she was underused barring two later films, \"Bio-Broly\" and \"Battle of Gods\", and that she was possibly used less due to not being a Saiyan. Aaron Hubbard of Moviepilot observed her shift from fighter to mother and wife as \"unjust\" given that she had been a threat to the protagonists in her first appearances, though still thought highly of the character. Chris Homer of \"The Fandom Post\" felt Android 18's \"getting in the spotlight\" was one of the decent moments in the Super 17 storyline. Her role in \"Dragon Ball Super\" has also been criticized.\n\nAndroid 18 was the visual inspiration for the \"Fatal Fury\" and \"The King of Fighters\" character Blue Mary. Ronda Rousey said she wanted to be Android 18 when she was a child.\n\nIn a filler episode of \"Dragon Ball Z\", Android 18 attends a party with her family. Android #18 is featured in the special \"\", being saved by Krillin from having a building collapse on both her and her daughter after it was hit by Aka's .\n\nIn the anime-only sequel, \"Dragon Ball GT\", Android #18 falls under Baby's control when the latter takes over Earth, avoiding being killed by Baby despite being caught in a blast from his \"Super Galick Gun\". She is freed of his control with the use of the Sacred Water, though has to abandon Earth the following year to avoid the planet's explosion thanks to a wish he made with the unstable Black Star Dragon Balls. Later she is nearly possessed by Android 17 to merge with him, but is helped out of his control by Krillin, who is then killed. Android #18 tries to fight him, but is defeated and left for dead. Android 18 comes to Goku's aid when he is fighting Super 17, the combination of Android 17 and Hell Fighter 17, a clone of her brother, in retaliation to Krillin's death which Goku was unaware of until she mentioned it. It is through her intervention that Goku is able to defeat him as she goads Super 17 to finish them both off and in doing so causes him to undergo an internal struggle that Goku exploits by attacking him during. After being assured that Krillin would be resurrected with the Dragon Balls, Android 18 is last seen at Capsule Corporation.\n\nAndroid 18 has made several appearances in music. Her voice actress Meredith McCoy recorded vocals for a theme song by Bruce Faulconer for Android 18, the track being named after her. The American soundtrack also had a 2003 release titled \"Dragonball Z American Soundtrack Best of Dragonball Z: Android 18\", dedicated to the character. The band Seraphim has a song titled \"Android 18\", describing her mixture of human and machine. Android 18 is also referenced in the song \"Blessing\" by Chance the Rapper when the lyricist raps that he laughs when Krillin mentions blonde hair.\n\nAndroid 18 also made a guest appearance in an episode of the hit YouTube show \"Death Battle\". In the episode, her weapons, skills and abilities were analyzed against the \"Marvel Comics\" hero \"Captain Marvel (Carol Danvers)\". In the end, Android 18 proved herself the better fighter and beat her opponent.\n\nHer first appearance in a \"Dragon Ball\" game was \"\". She is a playable character in most \"Dragon Ball Z\" fighting games, including the \"Budokai\" series and \"Raging Blast\" series. Android 18 is the only playable android in both \"\" and \"\", having an original story in \"Shin Budokai\" where she defeats Freeza, who intended to kidnap her so she could assist him in his acquiring of the Dragon Balls on Namek and has her programming to terminate Goku erased after summoning Shenlong. In the 2010 arcade game \"Dragon Ball Heroes\", after Super 17 is defeated by Android 18, Gohan, Vegeta and Goku, she is forcefully merged with her brother by Towa to power him up against the three Saiyans. In addition to her role as a playable character, she has also served as a boss in other games.\n\nIn the 2015 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse\", Androids 17 and 18 experience an increase in power from Demigra and attack Trunks in the alternate timeline, the possible fatality of Trunks through their encounter causing him to start disappearing. The player travels to Trunk's timeline and helps him fight 17 and 18, the latter being the first to notice. The combined force of Trunks and the player cause 17 and 18 to flee, and are later absorbed by Cell. Android 18 can be a mentor to the player character and teach \"Power Blitz\", \"Endless Shoot\", \"Deadly Dance\" and \"Dual Destructo-Disc\" She explains her motives for helping out are only due to having agreed to pay her in exchange for training the player.\n\nIn the 2016 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2\", Android 17 charges Cell after his Villainous Mode allows him to defeat Piccolo and Android 16, causing him to fall back into Android 18 and knock both of them out, allowing Cell to absorb both. In downloadable content, Android 18 assist Dabura in his fight against Krillin and the player after Dabura admits that he cannot fight the two by himself. Android 18 says that she is surprised to see Krillin there as she had ordered him to look after Marron, leading Krillin to state his intent to leave the battle before realizing that he had said the same thing to 18, and Android 18 reveals that she purposely said that to trick him. As the pair fight, Android 18 admits that her personal feelings for Krillin are going to make it harder for her to fight him, and states that she will protect the Krillin and Marron of her timeline no matter the costs.\n\nIn the 2018 game \"Dragon Ball FighterZ\", Krillin and Goku come across Android 21 and an unconscious Android 18 as Cell hovers over them preparing to attack. Android 21 pleads for Cell to spare 18, and Goku decides to fight Cell while Krillin checks on 18. While Krillin tends to her, Android 21 explains that 18 stood up for her against Cell. In another story, 18 begins having a headache she believes is brought on by Krillin being in trouble when she is encountered by Android 16, passing out shortly thereafter. She wakes up in a laboratory with Androids 16 and 21 hoovering over her, Android 16 revealing that the player is now in control of 18's body while the latter's actual soul is internally deep inside. The player makes contact with 18's soul, who admits trying to force the player out and recounts the story before requesting the player interact with 16 and 21 to find out what's happened. Android 21 admits her culpability in linking the player and 18 together for the purpose of defeating the Red Ribbon Army's clone fighters, and Android 16 stipulates that the two will return to their normal selves following all of the clones being disposed of. During the matches, Android 21 has repeated instances of losing her composure as she breaks down, culminating in her ordering 18 to fight Krillin when he stumbles across the group. After the group defeats Cell and Android 21 tries to kill him, Android 18 makes an unsuccessful attempt at linking with her to stop the murder. After 21 splits with her evil half, the evil half kills Android 16 and merges with Cell, Android 18 travels off planet to participate in the fight against 21's evil half. Goku fires a Spirit Bomb at the evil half, and Android 21 requests Android 18 look after the player before the player returns to Android 18 and 21 sacrifices herself to kill her evil half.\n"}
{"id": "1544170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544170", "title": "Anisogamy", "text": "Anisogamy\n\nAnisogamy (also called heterogamy) is the form of sexual reproduction that involves the union or fusion of two gametes, which differ in size and/or form. (The related adjectives are \"anisogamous\" and \"anisogamic\"). The smaller gamete is considered to be male (sperm cell), whereas the larger gamete is regarded as female (egg cell).\n\nThere are several types of anisogamy. Both gametes may be flagellated and therefore motile. Alternatively, both of the gametes may be non-flagellated. The latter situation occurs in some algae and plants. In the red alga \"Polysiphonia\", non-motile eggs are fertilized by non-motile sperm. In flowering plants, the gametes are non-motile cells within gametophytes.\n\nThe form of anisogamy that occurs in animals, including humans, is oogamy, where a large, non-motile egg (ovum) is fertilized by a small, motile sperm (spermatozoon). The egg is optimized for longevity, whereas the small sperm is optimized for motility and speed. The size and resources of the egg cell allow for the production of pheromones, which attract the swimming sperm cells.\n\nAnisogamy is a fundamental concept of sexual dimorphism that helps explain phenotypic differences between sexes. In most species a male and female sex exist, both of which are optimized for reproductive potential. Due to their differently sized and shaped gametes, both males and females have developed physiological and behavioral differences that optimize the individual’s fecundity. Since most egg laying females typically must bear the offspring and have a more limited reproductive cycle, this typically makes females a limiting factor in the reproductive success rate of males in a species. This process is also true for females selecting males, and assuming that males and females are selecting for different traits in partners, would result in phenotypic differences between the sexes over many generations. This hypothesis, known as the Bateman’s Principle, is used to understand the evolutionary pressures put on males and females due to anisogamy. Although this assumption has criticism, it is a generally accepted model for sexual selection within anisogamous species. The selection for different traits depending on sex within the same species is known as sex-specific selection, and accounts for the differing phenotypes found between the sexes of the same species. This sex-specific selection between sexes over time also lead to the development of secondary sex characteristics, which assist males and females in reproductive success.\n\nIn most species, both sexes choose mates based on the available phenotypes of potential mates. These phenotypes are species specific, resulting in varying strategies for successful sexual reproduction. For example, large males are sexually selected for in elephant seals for their large size helps the male fight off other males, but small males are sexually selected for in spiders for they can mate with the female more quickly while avoiding sexual cannibalism. However, despite the large range of sexually selected phenotypes, most anisogamous species follow a set of predictable desirable traits and selective behaviors based on general reproductive success models.\n\nFor internal fertilizers, female investment is high in reproduction since they typically expend more energy throughout a single reproductive event. This can be seen as early as oogenesis, for the female sacrifices gamete number for gamete size to better increase the survival chances of the potential zygote; a process more energetically demanding than spermatogenesis in males. Oogenesis occurs in the ovary, a female specific organ that also produces hormones to prepare other female-specific organs for the changes necessary in the reproductive organs to facilitate egg delivery in external fertilizers, and zygote development in internal fertilizers. The egg cell produced is not only large, but sometimes even immobile, requiring contact with the more mobile sperm to instigate fertilization.\n\nSince this process is very energy-demanding and time consuming for the female, mate choice is often integrated into the female’s behavior. Females will often be very selective of the males they choose to reproduce with, for the phenotype of the male can be indicative of the male’s physical health and heritable traits. Females employ mate choice to pressure males into displaying their desirable traits to females through courtship, and if successful, the male gets to reproduce. This encourages males and females of specific species to invest in courtship behaviors as well as traits that can display physical health to a potential mate. This process, known as sexual selection, results in the development of traits to ease reproductive success rather than individual survival, such as the inflated size of a termite queen. It is also important for females to select against potential mates that may have a sexually transmitted infection, for the disease could not only hurt the female’s reproductive ability, but also damage the resulting offspring.\n\nAlthough not uncommon in males, females are more associated with parental care. Since females are on a more limited reproductive schedule than males, a female often invests more in protecting the offspring to sexual maturity than the male. Like mate choice, the level of parental care varies greatly between species, and is often dependent on the number of offspring produced per sexual encounter.\n\nIn most species such as \"Drosophila melanogaster,\" females can utilize sperm storage, a process by which the female can store excess sperm from a mate, and fertilize her eggs long after the reproductive event if mating opportunities drop or quality of mates decreases. By being able to save sperm from more desirable mates, the female gains more control over its own reproductive success, thus allowing for the female to be more selective of males as well as making the timing of fertilization potentially more frequent if males are scarce.\n\nFor males of all species, the sperm cells they produce are optimized for ensuring fertilization of the female egg. These sperm cells are created through spermatogenesis, a form of gametogenesis that focuses on developing the most possible gametes per sexual encounter. Spermatogenesis occurs in the testes, a male specific organ that is also produces hormones that trigger the development of secondary sex characteristics. Since the male’s gametes are energetically cheap and abundant in every ejaculation, a male can greatly increase his sexual success by mating far more frequently than the female. Sperm, unlike egg cells, are also mobile, allowing for the sperm to swim towards the egg through the female’s sexual organs. Sperm competition is also a major factor in the development of sperm cells. Only one sperm can fertilize an egg, and since females can potentially reproduce with more than one male before fertilization occurs, producing sperm cells that are faster, more abundant, and more viable than that produced by other males can give a male reproductive advantage.\n\nSince females are often the limiting factor in a species reproductive success, males are often expected by the females to search and compete for the female, known as intraspecific competition. This can be seen in organisms such as bean beetles, as the male that searches for females more frequently is often more successful at finding mates and reproducing. In species undergoing this form of selection, a fit male would be one that is fast, has more refined sensory organs, and spatial awareness.\n\nSome secondary sex characteristics are not only meant for attracting mates, but also for competing with other males for copulation opportunities. Some structures, such as antlers in deer, can provide benefits to the male’s reproductive success by providing a weapon to prevent rival males from achieving reproductive success. However, other structures such as the large colorful tail feathers found in male peacocks, are a result of Fisherian Runaway as well as several more species specific factors. Due to females selecting for specific traits in males, over time, these traits are exaggerated to the point where they could hinder the male’s survivability. However, since these traits greatly benefit sexual selection, their usefulness in providing more mating opportunities overrides the possibility that the trait could lead to a shortening of its lifespan through predation or starvation. These desirable traits extend beyond physical body parts, and often extend into courtship behavior and nuptial gifts as well.\n\nAlthough some behaviors in males are meant to work within the parameters of cryptic female choice, some male traits work against it. Strong enough males, in some cases, can force themselves upon a female, forcing fertilization and overriding female choice. Since this can often be dangerous for the female, an Evolutionary Arms Race between the sexes is often an outcome.\n\nAnisogamy is the phenomenon of fertilization of large gametes (egg cells, ova) by (or with) small gametes (sperm cells: spermatozoa or spermatia). Gamete size difference is the fundamental difference between females and males. Anisogamy first evolved in multicellular haploid species after the differentiation of different mating types had already been established. However, in Ascomycetes, anisogamy evolved from isogamy before mating types.\n\nThe three main theories for the evolution of anisogamy are gamete competition, gamete limitation, and intracellular conflicts, but the last of these three is not well supported by current evidence. Both gamete competition and gamete limitation assume that anisogamy originated through disruptive selection acting on an ancestral isogamous population with external fertilization, due to a trade-off between larger gamete number and gamete size (which in turn affects zygote survival), because the total resource one individual can invest in reproduction is assumed to be fixed.\n\nThe first formal, mathematical theory proposed to explain the evolution of anisogamy was based on gamete limitation: this model assumed that natural selection would lead to gamete sizes that result in the largest population-wide number of successful fertilizations. If it is assumed that a certain amount of resources provided by the gametes are needed for the survival of the resulting zygote, and that there is a trade-off between the size and number of gametes, then this optimum was shown to be one where both small (male) and large (female) gametes are produced. However, these early models assume that natural selection acts mainly at the population level, something that is today known to be a very problematic assumption.\n\nThe first mathematical model to explain the evolution of anisogamy via individual level selection, and one that became widely accepted was the theory of gamete or sperm competition. Here, selection happens at the individual level: those individuals that produce more (but smaller) gametes also gain a larger proportion of fertilizations simply because they produce a larger number of gametes that 'seek out' those of the larger type. However, because zygotes formed from larger gametes have better survival prospects, this process can again lead to the divergence of gametes sizes into large and small (female and male) gametes. The end result is one where it seems that the numerous, small gametes compete for the large gametes that are tasked with providing maximal resources for the offspring.\n\nSome recent theoretical work has challenged the gamete competition theory, by showing that gamete limitation by itself can lead to the divergence of gamete sizes even under selection at the individual level. While this is possible, it has also been shown that gamete competition and gamete limitation are the ends of a continuum of selective pressures, and they can act separately or together depending on the conditions. These selection pressures also act in the same direction (to increase gamete numbers at the expense of size) and at the same level (individual selection). Theory also suggests that gamete limitation could only have been the dominant force of selection for the evolutionary origin of the sexes under quite limited circumstances, and the presence on average of just one competitor can makes the 'selfish' evolutionary force of gamete competition stronger than the 'cooperative' force of gamete limitation even if gamete limitation is very acute (approaching 100% of eggs remaining unfertilized).\n\nThere is then a relatively sound theory base for understanding this fundamental transition from isogamy to anisogamy in the evolution of reproduction, which is predicted to be associated with the transition to multicellularity. In fact, Hanschen et al (2018) demonstrate that anisogamy evolved from isogamous multicellular ancestors and that anisogamy would subsequently drive secondary sexual dimorphism. Some comparative empirical evidence for the gamete competition theories exists, although it is difficult to use this evidence to fully tease apart the competition and limitation theories because their testable predictions are similar. It has also been claimed that some of the organisms used in such comparative studies do not fit the theoretical assumptions well.\n\nA valuable model system to the study of the evolution of anisogamy is the volvocine algae, which group of chlorophytes is quite unique for its extant species exhibit a diversity of mating systems (isogamy and anisogamy) in addition to its extremes in both unicellularity and multicellularity with a diversity of forms in species of intermediate ranges of sizes. Marine algae have been closely studied to understand the trajectories of such diversified reproductive systems, evolution of sex and mating types, as well as the adaptiveness and stability of anisogamy.\n\n"}
{"id": "26747686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26747686", "title": "Anybody's Nightmare", "text": "Anybody's Nightmare\n\nAnybody's Nightmare is a single British television crime drama film, based on the true story of the imprisonment of Sheila Bowler, that broadcast on ITV on 7 October 2001. The film starred Patricia Routledge as Bowler, a 62-year-old music teacher who was wrongly arrested, tried and convicted for the murder of her husband's 89-year-old aunt Florence Jackson in 1993 after she drowned in the river Brede in East Sussex in 1992. The film chronicles the investigation, trial and the subsequent four years of Sheila's sentence in Holloway and Bullwood Prison before her successful appeal in 1998.\n\nThe film depicts Sheila's son Simon (Thomas Arnold) and daughter Jane (Georgina Sutcliffe)'s quest for justice, as they are aided by friend of the family, Angela Devlin (Nicola Redmond), whose real-life book on the case, first published in 1998, was the basis of the film. The film also co-starred David Calder as prosecution barrister Anthony Glass QC, alongside Malcolm Sinclair as Nicholas Purnell QC and William Armstrong as Jeremy Roberts QC, Bowler's defence lawyers. The initial broadcast of the film drew 9.11 million viewers. The film is often repeated on satellite and cable channels True Movies 1 and True Movies 2, with the occasional broadcast on True Entertainment. Notably, the film is Patricia Routledge's last acting role on television to date.\n\n\nSheila Bowler (Patricia Routledge) is a 62-year-old music teacher living in Rye, East Sussex. One weekend, she goes to collect her late husband's auntie, Florence Jackson (Jean Ainslie), from the care home where she is living. On the drive back home, Sheila's car suffers a puncture. She makes the decision to leave Florence in the car to walk to a nearby cottage to call for help. Upon her return, Sheila discovers that Florence has disappeared. The police are called, but despite an overnight search, no trace of Florence is discovered. Early the next day, divers pull a body from the nearby river Brede, which is confirmed to be that of Florence.\n"}
{"id": "3447756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3447756", "title": "Carbon-based life", "text": "Carbon-based life\n\nCarbon is a key component of all known life on Earth, representing approximately 45-50% of all dry biomass. Complex molecules are made up of carbon bonded with other elements, especially oxygen and hydrogen and frequently also with nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur. Carbon is abundant on Earth. It is also lightweight and relatively small in size, making it easier for enzymes to manipulate carbon molecules. It is frequently assumed in astrobiology that if life exists elsewhere in the universe, it will also be carbon-based. Critics refer to this assumption as carbon chauvinism.\n\nCarbon forms a vast number of compounds, more than any other element, with almost ten million compounds described to date, and yet that number is but a fraction of the number of theoretically possible compounds under standard conditions. For this reason, carbon has often been referred to as the \"king of the elements\".\n\nCarbon is the 15th most abundant element in the Earth's crust, and the fourth most abundant element in the universe by mass after hydrogen, helium, and oxygen. Carbon's abundance, its unique diversity of organic compounds, and its unusual ability to form polymers at the temperatures commonly encountered on Earth enables this element to serve as a common element of all known life. It is the second most abundant element in the human body by mass (about 18.5%) after oxygen.\n\n\"What we normally think of as 'life' is based on chains of carbon atoms, with a few other atoms, such as nitrogen or phosphorus\", per Stephen Hawking in a 2008 lecture, \"carbon [...] has the richest chemistry.\" \nThe most important characteristics of carbon as a basis for the chemistry of life are, that it has four valence bonds, and that the energy required to make or break a bond is at an appropriate level for building molecules, which are stable and reactive. Carbon atoms bond readily to other carbon atoms; this allows the building of arbitrarily long complex molecules and polymers.\n\nThere are not many other elements which even appear to be promising candidates for supporting life, for example, processes such as metabolism. The most frequently suggested alternative is silicon. Silicon is in the same group in the Periodic Table of elements, and has four valence bonds, and bonds to itself, generally in the form of crystal lattices rather than long chains. It is considerably more electropositive than carbon. Silicon compounds do not readily recombine into different permutations in a manner that would plausibly support lifelike processes.\n\nThe most notable groups of chemicals used in the processes of living organisms include:\n\n\nSilicon has been a theme of non-carbon-based-life since it is somewhat similar to carbon in its chemical characteristics. \nIn cinematic and literary science fiction, when man-made machines cross from non-living to living, this new form would be an example of non-carbon-based life. Since the advent of the microprocessor in the late 1960s, these machines are often classed as \"silicon-based life\". Another example of \"silicon-based life\" is the episode \"The Devil in the Dark\" from , in which a living rock creature's biochemistry is based on silicon. Also in The X-Files episode \"Firewalker\" where silicon based organism was discovered in a volcano.\n\nIn the movie adaptation of Arthur C. Clarke's \"2010\" (1984) a character argues, \"Whether we are based on carbon or on silicon makes no fundamental difference; we should each be treated with appropriate respect\". This quote may be the basis of Steve Jobs's quip when he introduced Carbon within MacOS X, \"Carbon. All life forms will be based on it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31040311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31040311", "title": "Chemically defined medium", "text": "Chemically defined medium\n\nA chemically defined medium is a growth medium suitable for the in vitro cell culture of human or animal cells in which all of the chemical components are known. Standard cell culture media are commonly supplemented with animal serum (such as fetal bovine serum, FBS) as a source of nutrients and other ill-defined factors. The technical disadvantages to using serum include its undefined nature, batch-to-batch variability in composition, and the risk of contamination.\n\nThere is a clear distinction between serum-free media and chemically defined media. Serum-free media may contain undefined animal-derived products such as serum albumin (purified from blood), hydrolysates, growth factors, hormones, carrier proteins, and attachment factors. These undefined animal-derived products will contain complex contaminants, such as the lipid content of albumin. In contrast, chemically defined media require that all of the components must be identified and have their exact concentrations known. Therefore, a chemically defined medium must be entirely free of animal-derived components and cannot contain either fetal bovine serum, bovine serum albumin or human serum albumin. To achieve this, chemically defined media is commonly supplemented with recombinant versions of albumin and growth factors, usually derived from rice or \"E. coli\", or synthetic chemical such as the polymer polyvinyl alcohol which can reproduce some of the functions of BSA/HSA.\n\nThe constituents of a chemically defined media include: a basal media (such as DMEM, F12, or RPMI 1640, containing amino acids, vitamins, inorganic salts, buffers, antioxidants and energy sources), which is supplemented with recombinant albumin, chemically defined lipids, recombinant insulin and/or zinc, recombinant transferrin or iron, selenium and an antioxidant thiol such as 2-mercaptoethanol or 1-thioglycerol. Chemically defined media that are designed for the cultivation of cells in suspension additionally contain suitable surfactants such as poloxamers in order to reduce shear stress caused by shaking and stirring.\n\n\nChemically defined media also allows researchers who are studying in the field of cell physiology (especially extracellular) and or molecule–cell interactions to eliminate any variables that may arise due to the effects of unknown components in the medium. \n\nAnimal culture media can be divided into six subsets based on the level of defined media (Jayme and Smith, 2000): From lowest definition to highest these are:\n\n\nThe term chemically defined media is often misused in the literature to refer to serum albumin-containing media. The term 'defined media' can also be used to describe this type of media. Media formulations containing the media supplement B27 (supplied by Invitrogen) are often erroneously referred to as chemically defined media (e.g. Yao et al., 2006) despite this product containing bovine serum albumin (Chen et al., 2008) using the above definitions this type of media is referred to as serum-free media. Peptide-free, protein-free, chemically defined media are rarely successfully formulated except for CHO and insect cells.\n\nAnimal protein-free media, containing human serum albumin, human transferrin, but potentially animal-derived insulin and lipids.\n\nXeno-free media, containing human serum albumin, human transferrin, human insulin, and chemically defined lipids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8953842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8953842", "title": "Computational auditory scene analysis", "text": "Computational auditory scene analysis\n\nComputational auditory scene analysis (CASA) is the study of auditory scene analysis by computational means. In essence, CASA systems are \"machine listening\" systems that aim to separate mixtures of sound sources in the same way that human listeners do. CASA differs from the field of blind signal separation in that it is (at least to some extent) based on the mechanisms of the human auditory system, and thus uses no more than two microphone recordings of an acoustic environment. It is related to the cocktail party problem.\n\nSince CASA serves to model functionality parts of the auditory system, it is necessary to view parts of the biological auditory system in terms of known physical models. Consisting of three areas, the outer, middle and inner ear, the auditory periphery acts as a complex transducer that converts sound vibrations into action potentials in the auditory nerve. The outer ear consists of the external ear, ear canal and the ear drum. The outer ear, like an acoustic funnel, helps locating the sound source. The ear canal acts as a resonant tube (like an organ pipe) to amplify frequencies between 2–5.5 kHz with a maximum amplification of about 11 dB occurring around 4 kHz. As the organ of hearing, the cochlea consists of two membranes, Reissner’s and the basilar membrane. The basilar membrane moves to audio stimuli through the specific stimulus frequency matches the resonant frequency of a particular region of the basilar membrane. The movement the basilar membrane displaces the inner hair cells in one direction, which encodes a half-wave rectified signal of action potentials in the spiral ganglion cells. The axons of these cells make up the auditory nerve, encoding the rectified stimulus. The auditory nerve responses select certain frequencies, similar to the basilar membrane. For lower frequencies, the fibers exhibit \"phase locking\". Neurons in higher auditory pathway centers are tuned to specific stimuli features, such as periodicity, sound intensity, amplitude and frequency modulation. \nThere are also neuroanatomical associations of ASA through the posterior cortical areas, including the posterior superior temporal lobes and the posterior cingulate. Studies have found that impairments in ASA and segregation and grouping operations are affected in patients with Alzheimer's disease.\n\nAs the first stage of CASA processing, the cochleagram creates a time-frequency representation of the input signal. By mimicking the components of the outer and middle ear, the signal is broken up into different frequencies that are naturally selected by the cochlea and hair cells. Because of the frequency selectivity of the basilar membrane, a filter bank is used to model the membrane, with each filter associated with a specific point on the basilar membrane.\n\nSince the hair cells produce spike patterns, each filter of the model should also produce a similar spike in the impulse response. The use of a gammatone filter provides an impulse response as the product of a gamma function and a tone. The output of the gammatone filter can be regarded as a measurement of the basilar membrane displacement. Most CASA systems represent the firing rate in the auditory nerve rather than a spike-based. To obtain this, the filter bank outputs are half-wave rectified followed by a square root. (Other models, such as automatic gain controllers have been implemented). The half-rectified wave is similar to the displacement model of the hair cells. \nAdditional models of the hair cells include the Meddis hair cell model which pairs with the gammatone filter bank, by modeling the hair cell transduction. Based on the assumption that there are three reservoirs of transmitter substance within each hair cell, and the transmitters are released in proportion to the degree of displacement to the basilar membrane, the release is equated with the probability of a spike generated in the nerve fiber. This model replicates many of the nerve responses in the CASA systems such as rectification, compression, spontaneous firing, and adaptation.\n\nImportant model of pitch perception by unifying 2 schools of pitch theory:\n\n\nThe correlogram is generally computed in the time domain by autocorrelating the simulated auditory nerve firing activity to the output of each filter channel. By pooling the autocorrelation across frequency, the position of peaks in the summary correlogram corresponds to the perceived pitch.\n\nBecause the ears receive audio signals at different times, the sound source can be determined by using the delays retrieved from the two ears. By cross-correlating the delays from the left and right channels (of the model), the coincided peaks can be categorized as the same localized sound, despite their temporal location in the input signal. \nThe use of interaural cross-correlation mechanism has been supported through physiological studies, paralleling the arrangement of neurons in the auditory midbrain.\n\nTo segregate the sound source, CASA systems mask the cochleagram. This mask, sometimes a Wiener filter, weighs the target source regions and suppresses the rest. The physiological motivation behind the mask results from the auditory perception where sound is rendered inaudible by a louder sound.\n\nA resynthesis pathway reconstructs an audio signal from a group of segments. Achieved by inverting the cochleagram, high quality resynthesized speech signals can be obtained.\n\nMonaural sound separation first began with separating voices based on frequency. There were many early developments based on segmenting different speech signals through frequency. Other models followed on this process, by the addition of adaption through state space models, batch processing, and prediction-driven architecture. The use of CASA has improved the robustness of ASR and speech separation systems.\n\nSince CASA is modeling human auditory pathways, binaural CASA systems better the human model by providing sound localization, auditory grouping and robustness to reverberation by including 2 spatially separated microphones. With methods similar to cross-correlation, systems are able to extract the target signal from both input microphones.\n\nSince the biological auditory system is deeply connected with the actions of neurons, CASA systems also incorporated neural models within the design. Two different models provide the basis for this area. Malsburg and Schneider proposed a neural network model with oscillators to represent features of different streams (synchronized and desynchronized). Wang also presented a model using a network of excitatory units with a global inhibitor with delay lines to represent the auditory scene within the time-frequency.\n\nTypical approaches in CASA systems starts with segmenting sound-sources into individual constituents, in its attempts to mimic the physical auditory system. However, there is evidence that the brain does not necessarily process audio input separately, but rather as a mixture. Instead of breaking the audio signal down to individual constituents, the input is broken down of by higher level descriptors, such as chords, bass and melody, beat structure, and chorus and phrase repetitions. These descriptors run into difficulties in real-world scenarios, with monaural and binaural signals. Also, the estimation of these descriptors is highly dependent on the cultural influence of the musical input. For example, within Western music, the melody and bass influences the identity of the piece, with the core formed by the melody. By distinguishing the frequency responses of melody and bass, a fundamental frequency can be estimated and filtered for distinction. Chord detection can be implemented through pattern recognition, by extracting low-level features describing harmonic content. \nThe techniques utilized in music scene analysis can also be applied to speech recognition, and other environmental sounds. Future bodies of work include a top-down integration of audio signal processing, such as a real-time beat-tracking system and expanding out of the signal processing realm with the incorporation of auditory psychology and physiology.\n\nWhile many models consider the audio signal as a complex combination of different frequencies, modeling the auditory system can also require consideration for the neural components. By taking a holistic process, where a stream (of feature-based sounds) correspond to neuronal activity distributed in many brain areas, the perception of the sound could be mapped and modeled. Two different solutions have been proposed to the binding of the audio perception and the area in the brain. Hierarchical coding models many cells to encode all possible combinations of features and objects in the auditory scene. Temporal or oscillatory correlation addressing the binding problem by focusing on the synchrony and desynchrony between neural oscillations to encode the state of binding among the auditory features. These two solutions are very similar to the debacle between place coding and temporal coding. While drawing from modeling neural components, another phenomenon of ASA comes into play with CASA systems: the extent of modeling neural mechanisms. The studies of CASA systems have involved modeling some known mechanisms, such as the bandpass nature of cochlear filtering and random auditory nerve firing patterns, however, these models may not lead to finding new mechanisms, but rather give an understanding of purpose to the known mechanisms.\n\n\nD. F. Rosenthal and H. G. Okuno (1998) Computational auditory scene analysis. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum\n"}
{"id": "2379843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2379843", "title": "Cooling board", "text": "Cooling board\n\nA cooling board was a perforated wooden platform on which a dead body would be temporarily stored and prepared for a funeral. Ice was placed beneath it to keep the body chilled, slowing the decomposition process. Holes in the cooling board, which could be made of cane latticework rather than a solid wooden plank, allowed blood and other fluids to drain from the body. It could also be used to display the body for a viewing if the casket was not delivered in time.\n\nMetal embalming tables replaced cooling boards as modern refrigeration became available.\n\nThe cooling board is referred to in a number of blues songs, such as \"Cooling Board Blues\" by Blind Willie McTell.\n\nSon House also makes a reference to a cooling board in his \"Death Letter\".\n\nA cooling board is also found in a song, \"Thank You, Master (For My Soul)\", by the late Donnie Hathaway:\n\nBenjamin B. French witnessed Abraham Lincoln's remains, after transfer from the Peterson House to the White House, being \"taken from the box in which they were enclosed, all limp and warm, and laid upon the floor, and then stretched upon the cooling board.\"\n"}
{"id": "47958972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47958972", "title": "Credibility thesis", "text": "Credibility thesis\n\nThe credibility thesis is a proposed heterodox theoretical framework for understanding how societal institutions or social rules come about and evolve. It posits that institutions emerge from intentional institution-building but never in the originally intended form. Instead, institutional development is endogenous and spontaneously ordered and institutional persistence can be explained by their credibility, which is provided by the function that particular institutions serve rather than their theoretical or ideological form. The credibility thesis can be applied to explain, for example, why purported institutional improvements do not take hold as part of structural adjustment programs, while other economies in the developing world deliver growth despite absence of clear and strong market mechanisms such as indisputable private property rights or clearly delineated and registered land tenure.\n\nAccording to the credibility thesis, institutional persistence, meaning the survival and change of particular institutions through time is determined by the function of the institution and actors' expectations of the institution to play that function. The Credibility Thesis has put forward “that what ultimately determines the performance of institutions is not their form in terms of formality, privatization, or security, but their spatially and temporally defined function. In different wording, institutional function presides over form; the former can be expressed by its credibility, that is, the perceived social support at a given time and space.” In this sense, the thesis predicts that institutions that persist over time likely are credible, thus functional. If not, they would have changed or gone extinct. This principle holds for whatever form an institution may assume, regardless whether it is formal or informal, public or private, secure or insecure.\n\nA typical example is sharecropping, which has been regarded as economically inefficient or \"second-best\". However, its persistence throughout time has challenged this premise, leading others to conclude that it is efficient, thus credible and functional. That credibility has been confirmed in other studies.\n\nChanges in institutional arrangements, such as changes from informal land tenure and informal housing to a formalized real estate market or gradually declining prevalence of formal marriage or customary rights, are brought about by rule-making in a multi-actor playing field, where even the strongest actors cannot fully dictate institutional arrangements.In effect, when powerful actors exogenously impose institutions that contradict the evolutionary flow of endogenously emerged functions, the newly designed arrangements will invariably develop into \"empty institutions\" and \"non credible\" institutions.\n\nAn institution that appears stable and unchanging over time is often alleged to exist in an equilibrium wherein actors' conflicting interests on what form the institution should take are locked in a frozen conflict. For example, whether land holdings should be registered in a cadastre or if informal exchange of payment for use rights can suffice as confirmation of a land sale, constitute two possible institutional arrangements and either can be beneficial to different actors' interests. That no actor perceives an immediate opportunity to change the arrangement to their advantage is a sign of the credibility of the assignment and the source of the equilibrium of institutional arrangement. However, in actuality disequilibrium characterises institutional arrangements and equilibrium is transitory and rare. What is perceived as persistence of institutions is, in fact, the occurrence of infinitesimally small institutional changes over time under a veneer of apparent stability. In this context, the credibility thesis is predicated upon the notion of dynamic disequilibrium. It is also why in this respect the credibility theory is juxtaposed to structural functionalism, which is based on presupposed societal equilibrium.\n\nA series of underlying postulates for the credibility thesis have been proposed:\n\n\n\"Given that all involved actors are constantly interested in changing institutional design, credibility cannot be measured by directly asking respondents whether they find an institution credible.\n\nInstead it has to be operationalized through proxies, such as the level of conflict that an institution generates, the extent of 'institutional robustness' expressed as a function of institutional lifespan and flexibility, the degree to which an institution facilitates or frustrates overall socio-economic, political and cultural change, and the extent to which an institution fulfils the functions it ought to perform in the eyes of social actors.\" \n\nSuch \"opening of the black box\" of institutions is possible using mixed methods to describe institutions in detail over time and space, which serves as an \"archaeology of institutions\". The archaeology of institutions can be understood as \"an approach by which the change of institutions is meticulously recorded, interpreted and studied through the collection of data from every possible source, regardless of whether that is socio-economic, historical, ethno-anthropological, geographical, psychological or legal-political.\" An example of this, is the history of China's titling and housing ownership.\n\nWhile predominantly applied to land-related institutions, this approach could be applied to analysis of other means of production, such as capital (e.g. banks and industries), labor (trade unions) or beyond (water management and notaries).\n\nThe proxies that can be used to measure credibility include the following:\n\n\nWhen credibility is assessed through these proxies, a better sense can be obtained of the current function that institutions fulfil for a group of actors. In result, one is likely better positioned to predict institutional interventions that might rally social support. Depending on the level of credibility, these can be envisioned as positioned on a gradient from condoning or non-intervention to co-opting, facilitating, prohibiting and ordaining.\n\nThe CSI Checklist (Credibility Scales and Intervention) was developed for this purpose.\n\nApart from studying credibility in real-life situations, the particular premises of the theory – endogeneity, dis-equilibrium, and functional adaptation – make it also suitable for simulation in agent-based models.\n\nThe question of credibility first emerged along with concern about certain institutional interventions failing. In the mid-20th century Vilhelm Aubert noted that the Housemaid Law in Norway had been implemented but flaunted by all involved actors. The concept of credibility was initially coined as an \"explanandum\" for the success and failure of Western monetary, anti-inflationary policies in the 1970s. A concern for the credibility of policy emerged in the latter half of the 20th century in response to frequently observed failures of neoliberal structural adjustments in the developing world associated with the Washington Consensus. Institutional reform, such as privatization, failed to deliver the predicted economic growth, not because of lacking credible commitment on part of actors but due to the absence of endogenous credibility.\n\nIn contrast, the growth of the Chinese economy despite lack of many institutions considered to be essential for economic growth indicated that institutional arrangements do not necessarily determine economic outcomes, and also at the same time economic development does not automatically lead to teleologically predetermined institutional forms. This has been particularly striking in the case of real estate sector in China. In this context, there is a growing body of research suggesting one should focus on the function or quality of institutional performance rather than their form. As noted by Ha-Joon Chang: “a big problem that dogs the current orthodox literature on development is its inability to clearly distinguish between the forms and functions of institutions.” \n\nThe term \"credibility thesis\" was put forth by Peter Ho in 2014. In a review of the credibility thesis, Delilah Griswold contended that \"credibility is a powerful metric by which to understand and evaluate tenure systems. Importantly, understanding the credibility of a given institution requires analysis outside of theory and politics, analysis that is locally and temporally specific and multilayered.\"\n\n\nRelated theories and theoretical bodies\n\n"}
{"id": "52044083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52044083", "title": "Cryoimmunotherapy", "text": "Cryoimmunotherapy\n\nCryoimmunotherapy, also referred to as cryoimmunology, is an oncological treatment for various cancers that combines cryoablation of tumor with immunotherapy treatment. In-vivo cryoablation of a tumor, alone, can induce an immunostimulatory, systemic anti-tumor response, resulting in a cancer vaccine—the abscopal effect. Thus, cryoablation of tumors is a way of achieving autologous, in-vivo tumor lysate vaccine and treat metastatic disease. However, cryoablation alone may produce an insufficient immune response, depending on various factors, such as high freeze rate. Combining cryotherapy with immunotherapy enhances the immunostimulating response and has synergistic effects for cancer treatment.\n\nAlthough, cryoblation and immunotherapy has been used successfully in oncological clinical practice for over 100 years, and can treat metastatic disease with curative intent, it has been ignored in modern practice. Only recently has cryoimmunotherapy been resurrected to become the gold standard in cancer treatment of all stages of disease.\n\nImmunological effects resulting from the cryoablation of tumors was first observed in the 1960s. Since the 1960s, Tanaka treated metastatic breast cancer patients with cryotherapy and reported cryoimmunological reaction resulting from cryotherapy. In the 1970s, systemic immunological response from local cryoablation of prostate cancer was also clinically observed. In the 1980s, Tanaka, of Japan, continued to advance the clinical practice of cryoimmunology with combination treatments including: cryochemotherapy and cryoimmunotherapy. In 1997, Russian scientists confirmed the efficacy of cryoimmunotherapy in inhibiting metastases in advanced cancer. In 2000s, China, following closely with the exciting developments, enthusiastically embraced cryoablation treatment for cancer and has been leading the practice ever since with cryoimmunotherapy treatments available for cancer patients in numerous hospitals and medical clinics throughout China. In the 2010s, American researchers and medical professionals, started to explore cryoimmunotherapy for systemic treatment of cancer.\n\nCryoablation of tumor induces necrosis of tumor cells. The immunotherapeutic effect of cryoablation of tumor is the result of the release of intracellular tumor antigens from within the necrotized tumor cells. The released tumor antigens help activate anti-tumor T cells, which destroy remaining malignant cells. Thus, cryoablation of tumor elicits a systemic anti-tumor immunologic response.\n\nThe resulting immunostimulation from cryoablation may not be sufficient to induce sustained, systemic regression of metastases, and can be synergised with the combination of immunotherapy treatment and vaccine adjuvants.\n\nVarious adjuvant immunotherapy and chemotherapy treatments can be combined with cryoablation to sustain systemic anti-tumor response with regression of metastases, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876394", "title": "Cystocele", "text": "Cystocele\n\nA cystocele, also known as a prolapsed bladder, is a medical condition in which a woman's bladder bulges into her vagina. Some may have no symptoms. Other may have trouble starting urination, urinary incontinence, or frequent urination. Complications may include recurrent urinary tract infections and urinary retention. Cystocele and a prolapsed urethra often occur together and is called a cystourethrocele. Cycstocele can negatively affect quality of life.\nCauses include childbirth, constipation, chronic cough, heavy lifting, hysterectomy, genetics, and being overweight. The underlying mechanism involves weakening of muscles and connective tissue between the bladder and vagina. Diagnosis is often based on symptoms and examination.\nIf the cystocele causes few symptoms, avoiding heavy lifting or straining may be all that is recommended. In those with more significant symptoms a vaginal pessary, pelvic muscle exercises, or surgery may be recommended. The type of surgery typically done is known as a colporrhaphy. The condition becomes more common with age. About a third of women over the age of 50 are affected to some degree.\n\nThe symptoms of a cystocele may include:\n\n\nA bladder that has dropped from its normal position and into the vagina can cause some forms of incontinence and incomplete emptying of the bladder.\n\nComplications may include urinary retention, recurring urinary tract infections and incontinence. The anterior vaginal wall may actually protrude though the vaginal introitus (opening). This can interfere with sexual activity. Recurrent urinary tract infections are common for those who have urinary retention. In addition, though cystocele can be treated, some treatments may not alleviate troubling symptoms, and further treatment may need to be performed. Cystocele may effect the quality of life, women who have cystocele tend to avoid leaving their home and social situations. The resulting incontinence puts women at risk of being placed in a nursing home or long term care facility.\n\nA cystocele occurs when the muscles, fascia, tendons and connective tissues between a woman’s bladder and vagina weaken, or detach. The type of cystocele that can develop can be due to one, two or three vaginal wall attachment failures: the midline defect, the paravaginal defect, and the transverse defect. The midline defect is a cystocele caused by the overstretching of the vaginal wall; the paravaginal defect is the separation of the vaginal connective tissue at the arcus tendineus fascia pelvis; the transverse defect is when the pubocervical fascia becomes detached from the top (apex) of the vagina. There is some pelvic prolapse in 40–60% of women who have given birth. Muscle injuries have been identified in women with cystocele. These injuries are more likely to occur in women who have given birth than those who have not. These muscular injuries result in less support to the anterior vaginal wall.\n\nSome women with connective tissue disorders are predisposed to developing anterior vaginal wall collapse. Up to one third of women with Marfan syndrome have a history of vaginal wall collapse. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in women is associated with a rate of 3 out of 4.\n\nRisk factors for developing a cystocele are:\n\nConnective tissue disorders predispose women to developing cystocele and other pelvic organ prolapse. The tissues tensile strength of the vaginal wall decreases when the structure of the collagen fibers change and become weaker.\n\nThere are two types of cystocele. The first is distension. This is thought to be due to the overstretching of the vaginal wall and is most often associated with aging, menopause and vaginal delivery. It can be observed when the rugae are less visible or even absent. The second type is displacement. Displacement is the detachment or abnormal elongation of supportive tissue.\n\nThe initial assessment of cystocele can include a pelvic exam to evaluate leakage of urine when the women is asked to bear down or give a strong cough (Valsalva maneuver), and the anterior vaginal wall measured and evaluated for the appearance of a cystocele. If a woman has difficulty emptying her bladder, the clinician may measure the amount of urine left in the woman’s bladder after she urinates called the postvoid residual. This is measured by ultrasound. A voiding cystourethrogram is a test that involves taking x-rays of the bladder during urination. This x-ray shows the shape of the bladder and lets the doctor see any problems that might block the normal flow of urine. A urine culture and sensitivity test will assess the presence of a urinary tract infection that may be related to urinary retention. Other tests may be needed to find or rule out problems in other parts of the urinary system. Differential diagnosis will be improved by identifying possible inflammation of the Skene's glands and Bartholin glands.\n\nA number of scales exist to grade the severity of a cystocele.\n\nThe pelvic organ prolapse quantification (POP-Q) assessment, developed in 1996, quantifies the descent of the cystocele into the vagina. The POP-Q provides reliable description of the support of the anterior, posterior and apical vaginal wall. It uses objective and precise measurements to the reference point, the hymen. Cystocele and prolapse of the vagina from other causes is staged using POP-Q criteria can range from good support (no descent into the vagina) reported as a POP-Q stage 0 or I to a POP-Q score of IV which includes prolapse beyond the hymen. It also used to quantifies the movement of other structures into the vaginal lumen and their descent.\n\nThe Baden–Walker Halfway Scoring System is used as the second most used system and assigns the classifications as mild (grade 1) when the bladder droops only a short way into the vagina; (grade 2) cystocele, the bladder sinks far enough to reach the opening of the vagina; and (grade 3) when the bladder bulges out through the opening of the vagina.\n\nCystocele can be further described as being apical, medial, lateral, or mediolateral.\n\nApical cystocele is located upper third of the vagina. The structures involved are the endopelvic fascia and ligaments. The cardinal ligaments and the uterosacral ligaments suspend the upper vaginal-dome. The cystocele in this region of the vagina is thought to be due to a cardinal ligament defect.\n\nMedial cystocele forms in the mid-vagina and is related to a defect in the suspension provided by to a sagittal suspension system defect in the uterosacral ligaments and pubocervical fascia. Thee pubocervical fascia may thin or tear and create the cystocele. An aid in diagnosis is the creation of a 'shiny' spot on the epithelium of the vagina. This defect can be assessed by MRI.\n\nLateral cystocele forms when both the pelviperineal muscle and its ligamentous–fascial develop a defect. The ligamentous– fascial creates a 'hammock-like' suspension and support for the lateral sides of the vagina. Defects in this lateral support system results in a lack of bladder support. Cystocele that develops laterally is associated with an anatomic imbalance between anterior vaginal wall and the arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis – the essential ligament structure.\n\nCystocele may be mild enough not to result in symptoms that are troubling to a woman. In this case, steps to prevent it from worsening include:\n\nTreatment options range from no treatment for a mild cystocele to surgery for a more extensive cystocele. If a cystocele is not bothersome, the clinician may only recommend avoiding heavy lifting or straining that could cause the cystocele to worsen. If symptoms are moderately bothersome, the doctor may recommend a pessary, a device placed in the vagina to hold the bladder in place and to block protrusion. Treatment can consist of a combination of non-surgical and surgical management. Treatment choice is also related to age, desire to have children, severity of impairment, desire to continue sexual intercourse and other diseases that a woman may have.\n\nCystocele is often treated by non-surgical means:\n\nThe surgery to repair the anterior vaginal wall may be combined with other procedures that will repair the other points of pelvic organ support such as anterior-posterior repair and anterior colporrhaphy. Treatment of cystocele often accompanies the more invasive hysterectomy. Since the failure rate in cystocele repair remains high, additional surgery may be needed. Women who have surgery to repair a cystocele have a 17% of needing another operation within the next ten years.\n\nThe surgical treatment of cystocele will depend on the cause of the defect and whether it occurs at the top (apex), middle, or lower part of the anterior vaginal wall. The type of surgery will also depend on the type of damage that exists between supporting structures and the vaginal wall. One of the most common surgical repairs is colporrhaphy. This surgical procedure consists of making a longitudinal folding of the vaginal tissue, suturing it into place and creating a stronger point of resistance to the intruding bladder wall. Surgical mesh is sometimes used to strengthen the anterior vaginal wall. It has a 10–50% failure rate. In some cases a surgeon may choose to use surgical mesh to strengthen the repair.\n\nDuring surgery, the repair of the vaginal wall consists of folding over and then suturing the existing tissue between the vagina and bladder to strengthen it. This tightens the layers of tissue to promote the replacement of the pelvic organs into their normal place. The surgery also provides more support for the bladder. This surgery is done by a surgeon specializing in gynecology and is performed in a hospital. Anesthesia varies according to the needs of each woman. Recovery may take four to six weeks. Other surgical treatment may be performed to treat cystocele. Support for the vaginal wall is accomplished with the paravaginal defect repair. This is a surgery, usually laproscopic, that is done to the ligaments and fascia through the abdomen. The lateral ligaments and supportive structures are repaired, sometimes shortened to provide additional support to the vaginal wall.\n\nSacrocolpopexy is a procedure that stabilizes the vaginal vault (the uppermost portion of the vagina) and is often chosen as the treatment for cystocele, especially if previous surgeries were not successful. The procedure consists of attaching the vaginal vault to the sacrum. It has a success rate of 90%. Some women choose not to have surgery to close the vagina. This surgery, called colpocleisis, treats cystocele by closing the vaginal opening. This can be an option for women who no longer want to have vaginal intercourse.\n\nIf an enterocele/sigmoidocele, or prolapse of the rectum/colon, is also present, the surgical treatment will take this concurrent condition into account while planning and performing the repairs. Estrogen that is administered vaginally before surgical repair can strengthen the vaginal tissue providing a more successful outcome when mesh or sutures are used for the repair. Vaginal thickness increases after estrogen therapy. Another review on the surgical management of cystocele describes a more successful treatment that more strongly attaches the ligaments and fascia to the vagina to lift and stabilize it.\n\nPost surgical complications can develop. The complications following surgical treatment of cystocele are: \n\n\nAfter surgery, a woman is instructed to restrict her activities and monitor herself for signs of infection such as an elevated temperature, discharge with a foul odor and consistent pain. Clinicians may recommend that sneezing, coughing, and constipation are to be avoided. Splinting the abdomen while coughing provides support to an incised area and decreases pain on coughing. This is accomplished by applying gentle pressure to the surgical site for bracing during a cough.\n\nRecurrent surgery on the pelvic organs may not be due to a failure of the surgery to correct the cystocele. Subsequent surgeries can be directly or indirectly relating to the primary surgery. Prolapse can occur at a different site in the vagina. Further surgery after the initial repair can be to treat complications of mesh displacement, pain, or bleeding. Further surgery may be needed to treat incontinence.\n\nOne goal of surgical treatment is to restore the vagina and other pelvic organs to their anatomically normal positions. This may not be the outcome that is most important to the woman being treated who may only want relief of symptoms and an improvement in her quality of life. The International Urogynecological Association (IUGA) has recommended that the data collected regarding the success of cystocele and pelvic organ repairs include the presence or absence of symptoms, satisfaction and Quality of Life. Other measures of a successful outcome should include perioperative data, such as operative time and hospital stay. Standardized Healthcare Quality of Life should be part of the measure of a successful resolution of cystocele. Data regarding short- and long-term complications is included in the recommendations of the IUGA to better assess the risk–benefit ratio of each procedure. Current investigations into the superiority of using biological grafting versus native tissue or surgical mesh indicates that using grafts provides better results.\n\nA large study found a rate of 29% over the lifetime of a woman. Other studies indicate a recurrence rate as low as 3%.\n\nIn the US, greater than 200,000 surgeries are performed each year for pelvic organ prolapse and 81% of these are to correct cystocele. Cystocele occurs most frequently compared to the prolapse of other pelvic organs and structure. Cystocele is found to be three times as common as vaginal vault prolapse and twice as often as posterior vaginal wall defects. The incidence of cystocele is around 9 per 100 women-years. The highest incidence of symptoms occurs between ages of 70 and 79 years. Based on population growth statistics, the number of women with prolapse will increase by a minimum of 46% by the year 2050 in the US. Surgery to correct prolapse after hysterectomy is 3.6 per 1,000 women-years.\n\nNotable is the mention of cystocele in many older cultures and locations. In 1500 B.C. Egyptians wrote about the “falling of the womb”. In 400 B.C. a Greek physician documented his observations and treatments:\n\n\"After the patient had been tied to a ladder-like frame, she was tipped upward so that her head was toward the bottom of the frame. The frame was then moved upward and downward more or less rapidly for approximately 3–5 min. As the patient was in an inverted position, it was thought that the prolapsing organs of the genital tract would be returned to their normal position by the force of gravity and the shaking motion.\"\n\nHippocrates had his own theories regarding the cause of prolapse. He thought that recent childbirth, wet feet, 'sexual excesses', exertion, and fatigue may have contributed to the condition. Polybus, Hippocrates's son-in-law, wrote: \"a prolapsed uterus was treated by using local astringent lotions, a natural sponge packed into the vagina, or placement of half a pomegranate in the vagina.\" In 350 A.D., another practitioner named Soranus described his treatments which stated that the pomegranate should be dipped into vinegar before insertion. Success could be enhanced if the woman was on bed rest and reduced intake of fluid and food. If the treatment was still not successful, the woman's legs were tied together for three days.\n\nIn 1521, Berengario da Carpi performed the first surgical treatment for prolapse. This was to tie a rope around the prolapse, tighten it for two days until it was no longer viable and cut it off. Wine, aloe, and honey were then applied to the stump.\n\nIn the 1700s, a Swiss gynecologist, Peyer, published a description of a cystocele. He was able to describe and document both cystocele and uterine prolapse. In 1730, Halder associated cystocele with childbirth. During this same time, efforts began to standardize the terminology that is still familiar today. In the 1800s, the surgical advancements of anesthesia, suturing, suturing materials and acceptance of Joseph Listers theories of antisepsis improved outcomes for women with cystocele. The first surgical techniques were practiced on female cadavers. In 1823, Geradin proposed that an incision and resection may provide treatment. In 1830, the first dissection of the vagina was performed by Dieffenbach on a living woman. In 1834, Mendé proposed that dissecting and repair of the edges of the tissues could be done. In 1859, Huguier proposed the amputation of the cervix was going to solve the problem for elongation.\n\nIn 1866, a method of correcting a cystocele was proposed that resembled current procedures. Sim subsequently developed another procedure that did not require the full-thickness dissection of the vaginal wall. In 1888, another method of treating anterior vaginal wall Manchester combined an anterior vaginal wall repair with an amputation of the cervix and a perineorrhaphy. In 1909, White noted the high rate of recurrence of cystocele repair. At this time it was proposed that reattaching the vagina to support structures was more successful and resulted in less recurrence. This same proposal was proposed again in 1976 but further studies indicated that the recurrence rate was not better.\n\nIn 1888, treatments were tried that entered the abdomen to make reattachments. Some did not agree with this and suggested an approach through the inguinal canal. In 1898, further abdominal approaches were proposed. No further advances have been noted until 1961 when reattachment of the anterior vaginal wall to Cooper's ligament began to be used. Unfortunately, posterior vaginal wall prolapse occurred in some patients even though the anterior repair was successful.\n\nIn 1955, using mesh to support pelvic structures came into use. In 1970, tissue from pigs began to be used to strengthen the anterior vaginal wall in surgery. Beginning in 1976, improvement in suturing began along with the surgical removal of the vagina being used to treat prolapse of the bladder. In 1991, assumptions about the detailed anatomy of the pelvic support structures began to be questioned regarding the existence of some pelvic structures and the non-existence of others. More recently, the use of stem cells, robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery are being used to treat cystocele.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26051686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051686", "title": "Cytoplasmic incompatibility", "text": "Cytoplasmic incompatibility\n\nCytoplasmic incompatibility (CI) is a phenomenon that results in sperm and eggs being unable to form viable offspring. The effect arises from changes in the gamete cells caused by intracellular parasites like \"Wolbachia\", which infect a wide range of insect species. As the reproductive incompatibility is caused by bacteria that reside in the cytoplasm of the host cells, it is referred to as cytoplasmic incompatibility. In 1971, Janice Yen and A. Ralph Barr of UCLA demonstrated the etiologic relationship of \"Wolbachia\" infection and cytoplasmic incompatibility in \"Culex\" mosquitos when they found that eggs were killed when the sperm of \"Wolbachia\"-infected males fertilized infection-free eggs.\n\nCI occurs when a \"Wolbachia\" infected male mates with a female that is infected by another \"Wolbachia\" strain (bidirectional CI) or is uninfected (unidirectional CI). \nAny other combination of un-/infected male/female crosses are compatible. An infected female is compatible with any infected or uninfected male of the same \"Wolbachia\" strain. On the other hand an uninfected female is only compatible with an uninfected male. In other words, if the male is infected by a CI-inducing strain of \"Wolbachia\" that is non-existent in its mate, it is an incompatible cross. Hosts can be cured from \"Wolbachia\" infection by antibiotic use.\n\nIn diploid organisms CI leads to embryonic mortality. In contrast, CI in haplodiploid hosts may lead to haploid (and thus male) offspring. The closely related species of the wasp \"Nasonia\" show embryonic mortality as well as male development among incompatible crosses. In \"N. vitripennis\", however, the vast majority of the CI embryos are converted into males.\n\nThere are two distinguished events that lead to the CI inducing manipulation. The first occurs inside the \"Wolbachia\" infected male during spermatogenesis and is called modification. Because \"Wolbachia\" are absent from mature sperm and appear to be excluded during the individualization process, the modification must occur before the conclusion of spermatogenesis. \nThe second event, called rescue, takes place inside the fertilized egg where \"Wolbachia\" presence prevents CI from occurring. As long as the \"Wolbachia\" strains in egg and sperm cells correspond, harmful effects cannot be observed on a cellular level.\n\nA major consequence of CI is the delayed entry into mitosis of the male pronucleus. As a secondary consequence, stemming from this asynchrony, the paternal chromosomes do not properly condense and align on the metaphase plate during the first mitosis. As a consequence, only the maternal chromosome segregate normally, producing haploid embryos. The rescue of CI by infected eggs leads to the restoration of synchrony between the female and the male pronucleus.\n\nThe exact mechanisms of how \"Wolbachia\" perform modification and rescue are unknown. In \"Drosophila\", the earliest effects caused by CI can already be observed during the sperm chromatin remodeling of the paternal chromosomes. However, it was also observed that in other host species, the defects caused by CI only occur much later in development \n\nCI, as described by Werren, results in selection pressure on uninfected females, as infected females can mate both with uninfected males and infected males, but uninfected females cannot mate with infected males. As \"Wolbachia\" are only transmitted by females, this mechanism promotes the spread of \"Wolbachia\" and therefore keeps \"Wolbachia\" from dying out because of incomplete transmission. This has led to discoveries in control of disease transmission by using Wolbachia to control the reproduction of a population by introducing \"Wolbachia\"-infected males. This has been seen in the Aedes, mosquito, family, in the \"Aedes albopictus\" and \"Aedes aegypti\" species.\n\nThe infection of a population with CI-inducing \"Wolbachia\" can have different effects on the population's dynamics. At low prevalence of \"Wolbachia\", the probability for an uninfected female to lose progeny because of mating with an infected male is fairly low.\nThis loss of uninfected individuals is outweighed by the loss of infection due to the incomplete \"Wolbachia\" transmission.\nIf the prevalence of CI-inducing \"Wolbachia\" is high enough, the probability for an uninfected female to mate with an infected male is high and it is thus preferable for a female to be infected. \nTherefore, there is an \"invasion threshold\" for the spread of \"Wolbachia\" in an uninfected population, which depends on the transmission rate of the infection and the portion of incompatible progeny which survive until they can reproduce (the strength of CI), as well as on the fitness cost of \"Wolbachia\" infection to the female.\nBelow this threshold the invaders will die out, above this threshold the prevalence will reach a stable equilibrium. Typical thresholds in real populations are around 10% (See Fine and Stouthamer et al.).\n\nAs described by Stouthamer, the invasion threshold may be crossed in two ways. \n\nIt is speculated that \"CI\" can lead to \"rapid speciation\". When two populations of the same species are infected by two \"Wolbachia\" strains A and B, they might be bidirectionally incompatible and crosses between the two populations do not lead to viable offspring. Thus gene flow between these two populations is interrupted, leading to constant segregation in development and, finally, to speciation. The populations develop to a point where incompatibility would be maintained even in absence of \"Wolbachia\".\n\n\"Wolbachia\" are not the only bacteria capable of inducing CI. For example, researchers have found that infection by bacteria of the genus \"Cardinium\" can also result in CI.\n\n"}
{"id": "52286422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52286422", "title": "Dafydd Benwyn", "text": "Dafydd Benwyn\n\nDafydd Benwyn was a 16th-century poet, from Glamorganshire, Wales. He is thought to have been possibly the most prolific of the bards of Glamorganshire, and two quite large collections of his \"awdlau\" and \"cywyddau\" are known to survive. They include a number of works written in praise of, and containing the genealogies of, some of the wealthiest families of Glamorganshire and Monmouthshire, and are quite important in this respect.\n"}
{"id": "213371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213371", "title": "Evolutionary art", "text": "Evolutionary art\n\nEvolutionary art is a branch of generative art, in which the artist does not do the work of constructing the artwork, but rather lets a system do the construction. In evolutionary art, initially generated art is put through an iterated process of selection and modification to arrive at a final product, where it is the artist who is the selective agent.\n\nEvolutionary art is to be distinguished from BioArt, which uses living organisms as the material medium instead of paint, stone, metal, etc.\n\nIn common with biological evolution through natural selection or animal husbandry, the members of a population undergoing artificial evolution modify their form or behavior over many reproductive generations in response to a selective regime.\n\nIn interactive evolution the selective regime may be applied by the viewer explicitly by selecting individuals which are aesthetically pleasing. Alternatively a selection pressure can be generated implicitly, for example according to the length of time a viewer spends near a piece of evolving art.\n\nEqually, evolution may be employed as a mechanism for generating a dynamic world of adaptive individuals, in which the selection pressure is imposed by the program, and the viewer plays no role in selection, as in the Black Shoals project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4192909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4192909", "title": "Frederick Wollaston Hutton", "text": "Frederick Wollaston Hutton\n\nCaptain Frederick Wollaston Hutton, FRS, (16 November 1836 – 27 October 1905) was an English-New Zealand scientist who applied the theory of natural selection to explain the origins and nature of the natural history of New Zealand. An army officer in early life, he then had an academic career in geology and biology. He became one of the most able and prolific nineteenth century naturalists of New Zealand.\n\nHutton was born in Gate Burton, Lincolnshire, England and passed through Southwell Grammar school and the Naval Academy at Gosport, Hampshire. He studied applied science at King's College London before being commissioned in the Royal Welch Fusiliers and fighting in the Crimean War and the Indian Mutiny.\n\nHutton returned to England in 1860, and continued to study geology at Sandhurst, being elected to the Geological Society of London in the same year. Hutton married Annie Gouger Montgomerie in 1863, and resigned his commission in 1866 to travel with his wife and two children to New Zealand, where four more children would follow. They lived initially in Waikato, where Hutton tried his hand at flax milling, but he soon changed back to geology, joining the Geological Survey of New Zealand in 1866 and becoming Provincial Geologist of Otago in 1874. At the same time, he was made lecturer in geology at the University of Otago and curator of the museum there along with Emile Campbell-Browne (1830–1925). Hutton became professor of biology at Canterbury College in 1880, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1892. The following year, he also took on the curatorship of the Canterbury Museum. Towards the end of his life, Hutton was made president of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union. He was awarded the Clarke Medal by the Royal Society of New South Wales in 1891. He was founding President of the Royal Society of New Zealand from 1904 to his death in 1905; he was followed by Sir James Hector.\n\nHe worked successively at the Colonial Museum, Wellington (1871–1873); Otago Museum, Dunedin (1877–1879); and the Canterbury Museum, Christchurch (1887–1905)\n\nHutton died on the return voyage from England on 27 October 1905, and was buried at sea off Cape Town, South Africa. He is commemorated in the Hutton Memorial Medal and Research Fund, awarded for scientific works bearing on the zoology, botany or geology of New Zealand. Hutton's shearwater (\"Puffinus huttoni\"), a sea bird, was named after him.\n\nIn 1860, he wrote a supportive review of Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" for the journal, \"The Geologist\". In 1861, he wrote an article defending Darwinism in the same journal. Hutton defended Darwin from the criticisms of creationist Adam Sedgwick, which he described as \"gross ironical misrepresentations\". He wrote that creationism was a \"mere assertion, an evasion of the question, a cloak for ignorance.\" \n\nThroughout his life, Hutton remained a staunch exponent of Darwin's theories of natural selection, and Darwin himself expressed his appreciation in a letter to Hutton.\n\nTaxa described and named by Hutton include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277206", "title": "Freethought", "text": "Freethought\n\nFreethought (or \"free thought\") is a philosophical viewpoint which holds that positions regarding truth should be formed on the basis of logic, reason, and empiricism, rather than authority, tradition, revelation, or dogma. In particular, freethought is strongly tied with rejection of traditional social or religious belief systems. The cognitive application of freethought is known as \"freethinking\", and practitioners of freethought are known as \"freethinkers\". The term first came into use in the 17th century in order to indicate people who inquired into the basis of traditional religious beliefs.\n\nFreethinkers hold that knowledge should be grounded in facts, scientific inquiry, and logic. The skeptical application of science implies freedom from the intellectually limiting effects of confirmation bias, cognitive bias, conventional wisdom, popular culture, prejudice, or sectarianism.\n\nModern freethinkers consider freethought as a natural freedom of all negative and illusive thoughts acquired from the society \n\nAtheist author Adam Lee defines freethought as thinking which is independent of revelation, tradition, established belief, and authority, and considers it as a \"broader umbrella\" than atheism \"that embraces a rainbow of unorthodoxy, religious dissent, skepticism, and unconventional thinking.\"\n\nThe basic summarizing statement of the essay \"The Ethics of Belief\" by the 19th-century British mathematician and philosopher William Kingdon Clifford is: \"It is wrong always, everywhere, and for anyone, to believe anything upon insufficient evidence.\" The essay became a rallying cry for freethinkers when published in the 1870s, and has been described as a point when freethinkers grabbed the moral high ground. Clifford was himself an organizer of freethought gatherings, the driving force behind the Congress of Liberal Thinkers held in 1878.\n\nRegarding religion, freethinkers typically hold that there is insufficient evidence to support the existence of supernatural phenomena. According to the Freedom from Religion Foundation, \"No one can be a freethinker who demands conformity to a bible, creed, or messiah. To the freethinker, revelation and faith are invalid, and orthodoxy is no guarantee of truth.\" and \"Freethinkers are convinced that religious claims have not withstood the tests of reason. Not only is there nothing to be gained by believing an untruth, but there is everything to lose when we sacrifice the indispensable tool of reason on the altar of superstition. Most freethinkers consider religion to be not only untrue, but harmful.\"\n\nHowever, philosopher Bertrand Russell wrote the following in his 1944 essay \"The Value of Free Thought:\"\n\nThe whole first paragraph of the essay makes it clear that a freethinker is not necessarily an atheist or an agnostic, as long as he or she satisfies this definition:\nFred Edwords, former executive of the American Humanist Association, suggests that by Russell's definition, liberal religionists who have challenged established orthodoxies can be considered freethinkers.\n\nOn the other hand, according to Bertrand Russell, atheists and/or agnostics are not necessarily freethinkers. As an example, he mentions Stalin, whom he compares to a \"pope\":\nIn the 18th and 19th century, many thinkers regarded as freethinkers were deists, arguing that the nature of God can only be known from a study of nature rather than from religious revelation. In the 18th century, \"deism\" was as much of a 'dirty word' as \"atheism\", and deists were often stigmatized as either atheists or at least as freethinkers by their Christian opponents. Deists today regard themselves as freethinkers, but are now arguably less prominent in the freethought movement than atheists.\n\nThe pansy serves as the long-established and enduring symbol of freethought; literature of the American Secular Union inaugurated its usage in the late 1800s. The reasoning behind the pansy as the symbol of freethought lies both in the flower's name and in its appearance. The pansy derives its name from the French word \"pensée\", which means \"thought\". It allegedly received this name because the flower is perceived by some to bear resemblance to a human face, and in mid-to-late summer it nods forward as if deep in thought.\n\nCritical thought has flourished in the Hellenistic Mediterranean, in the repositories of knowledge and wisdom in Ireland and in the Iranian civilizations (for example in the era of Khayyam (1048–1131) and his unorthodox Sufi \"Rubaiyat\" poems), and in other civilizations, such as the Chinese (note for example the seafaring renaissance of the Southern Song dynasty of 420–479), and on through heretical thinkers on esoteric alchemy or astrology, to the Renaissance and the Protestant Reformation.\n\nFrench physician and writer Rabelais celebrated \"rabelaisian\" freedom as well as good feasting and drinking (an expression and a symbol of freedom of the mind) in defiance of the hypocrisies of conformist orthodoxy in his utopian Thelema Abbey (from θέλημα: free \"will\"), the device of which was \"Do What Thou Wilt\":\n\nSo had Gargantua established it. In all their rule and strictest tie of their order there was but this one clause to be observed, Do What Thou Wilt; because free people ... act virtuously and avoid vice. They call this honor.\nWhen Rabelais's hero Pantagruel journeys to the \"Oracle of The Div(in)e Bottle\", he learns the lesson of life in one simple word: \"Trinch!\", Drink! Enjoy the simple life, learn wisdom and knowledge, as a free human. Beyond puns, irony, and satire, Gargantua's prologue-metaphor instructs the reader to \"break the bone and suck out the substance-full marrow\" (\"la substantifique moëlle\"), the core of wisdom.\n\nThe year 1600 is considered a landmark in the era of modern freethought. It was the year of the execution in Italy of Giordano Bruno, a former Dominican Monk, by the Inquisition.\n\nThe term \"free-thinker\" emerged towards the end of the 17th century in England to describe those who stood in opposition to the institution of the Church, and the literal belief in the Bible. The beliefs of these individuals were centered on the concept that people could understand the world through consideration of nature. Such positions were formally documented for the first time in 1697 by William Molyneux in a widely publicized letter to John Locke, and more extensively in 1713, when Anthony Collins wrote his \"Discourse of Free-thinking,\" which gained substantial popularity. This essay attacks the clergy of all churches and it is a plea for deism.\n\n\"The Freethinker\" magazine was first published in Britain in 1881.\n\nIn France, the concept first appeared in publication in 1765 when Denis Diderot, Jean le Rond d'Alembert, and Voltaire included an article on \"Liberté de penser\" in their Encyclopédie. The European freethought concepts spread so widely that even places as remote as the Jotunheimen, in Norway, had well-known freethinkers such as Jo Gjende by the 19th century.\n\nFrançois-Jean Lefebvre de la Barre (1745–1766) was a young French nobleman, famous for having been tortured and beheaded before his body was burnt on a pyre along with Voltaire's \"Philosophical Dictionary\". La Barre is often said to have been executed for not saluting a Roman Catholic religious procession, but the elements of the case were far more complex.\n\nIn France, Lefebvre de la Barre is widely regarded a symbol of the victims of Christian religious intolerance; La Barre along with Jean Calas and Pierre-Paul Sirven, was championed by Voltaire. A second replacement statue to de la Barre stands nearby the Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus of Paris at the summit of the butte Montmartre (itself named from the \"Temple of Mars\"), the highest point in Paris and an 18th arrondissement street nearby the Sacré-Cœur is also named after Lefebvre de la Barre.\n\nIn Germany, during the period 1815–1848 and before the March Revolution, the resistance of citizens against the dogma of the church increased. In 1844, under the influence of Johannes Ronge and Robert Blum, belief in the rights of man, tolerance among men, and humanism grew, and by 1859 they had established the \"Bund Freireligiöser Gemeinden Deutschlands\" (literally \"Union of Free Religious Communities of Germany\"), an association of persons who consider themselves to be religious without adhering to any established and institutionalized church or sacerdotal cult. This union still exists today, and is included as a member in the umbrella organization of free humanists. In 1881 in Frankfurt am Main, Ludwig Büchner established the \"Deutscher Freidenkerbund\" (German Freethinkers League) as the first German organization for atheists and agnostics. In 1892 the \"Freidenker-Gesellschaft\" and in 1906 the \"Deutscher Monistenbund\" were formed.\n\nFreethought organizations developed the \"Jugendweihe\" (literally \"Youth consecration\"), a secular \"confirmation\" ceremony, and atheist funeral rites. The Union of Freethinkers for Cremation was founded in 1905, and the Central Union of German Proletariat Freethinker in 1908. The two groups merged in 1927, becoming the German Freethinking Association in 1930.\n\nMore \"bourgeois\" organizations declined after World War I, and \"proletarian\" Freethought groups proliferated, becoming an organization of socialist parties. European socialist freethought groups formed the International of Proletarian Freethinkers (IPF) in 1925. Activists agitated for Germans to disaffiliate from their respective Church and for seculari-zation of elementary schools; between 1919–21 and 1930–32 more than 2.5 million Germans, for the most part supporters of the Social Democratic and Communist parties, gave up church membership. Conflict developed between radical forces including the Soviet League of the Militant Godless and Social Democratic forces in Western Europe led by Theodor Hartwig and Max Sievers. In 1930 the Soviet and allied delegations, following a walk-out, took over the IPF and excluded the former leaders.\nFollowing Hitler's rise to power in 1933, most freethought organizations were banned, though some right-wing groups that worked with so-called \"Völkische Bünde\" (literally \"\"ethnic\" associations\" with nationalist, xenophobic and very often racist ideology) were tolerated by the Nazis until the mid-1930s.\n\nThe Université Libre de Bruxelles and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, along with the two Circles of Free Inquiry (Dutch and French speaking), defend the freedom of critical thought, lay philosophy and ethics, while rejecting the argument of authority.\n\nIn the Netherlands, freethought has existed in organized form since the establishment of De Dageraad (now known as De Vrije Gedachte) in 1856. Among its most notable subscribing 19th century individuals were Johannes van Vloten, Multatuli, Adriaan Gerhard and Domela Nieuwenhuis.\n\nIn 2009, Frans van Dongen established the Atheist-Secular Party, which takes a considerably restrictive view of religion and public religious expressions.\n\nSince the 19th century, Freethought in the Netherlands has become more well known as a political phenomenon through at least three currents: liberal freethinking, conservative freethinking, and classical freethinking. In other words, parties which identify as freethinking tend to favor non-doctrinal, rational approaches to their preferred ideologies, and arose as secular alternatives to both clerically aligned parties as well as labor-aligned parties. Common themes among freethinking political parties are \"freedom\", \"liberty\", and \"individualism\".\n\nThe Free Thought movement first organized itself in the United States as the \"Free Press Association\" in 1827 in defense of George Houston, publisher of \"The Correspondent\", an early journal of Biblical criticism in an era when blasphemy convictions were still possible. Houston had helped found an Owenite community at Haverstraw, New York in 1826–27. The short-lived \"Correspondent\" was superseded by the \"Free Enquirer\", the official organ of Robert Owen's New Harmony community in Indiana, edited by Robert Dale Owen and by Fanny Wright between 1828 and 1832 in New York. During this time Robert Dale Owen sought to introduce the philosophic skepticism of the Free Thought movement into the Workingmen's Party in New York City. The \"Free Enquirer\"'s annual civic celebrations of Paine's birthday after 1825 finally coalesced in 1836 in the first national Free Thinkers organization, the \"United States Moral and Philosophical Society for the General Diffusion of Useful Knowledge\". It was founded on August 1, 1836, at a national convention at the Lyceum in Saratoga Springs with Isaac S. Smith of Buffalo, New York, as president. Smith was also the 1836 Equal Rights Party's candidate for Governor of New York and had also been the Workingmen's Party candidate for Lt. Governor of New York in 1830. The Moral and Philosophical Society published \"The Beacon\", edited by Gilbert Vale.\nDriven by the revolutions of 1848 in the German states, the 19th century saw an immigration of German freethinkers and anti-clericalists to the United States (see Forty-Eighters). In the United States, they hoped to be able to live by their principles, without interference from government and church authorities.\n\nMany Freethinkers settled in German immigrant strongholds, including St. Louis, Indianapolis, Wisconsin, and Texas, where they founded the town of Comfort, Texas, as well as others.\n\nThese groups of German Freethinkers referred to their organizations as \"Freie Gemeinden\", or \"free congregations\". The first Freie Gemeinde was established in St. Louis in 1850. Others followed in Pennsylvania, California, Washington, D.C., New York, Illinois, Wisconsin, Texas, and other states.\n\nFreethinkers tended to be liberal, espousing ideals such as racial, social, and sexual equality, and the abolition of slavery.\n\nThe \"Golden Age of Freethought\" in the US came in the late 1800s. The dominant organization was the National Liberal League which formed in 1876 in Philadelphia. This group re-formed itself in 1885 as the American Secular Union under the leadership of the eminent agnostic orator Robert G. Ingersoll. Following Ingersoll's death in 1899 the organization declined, in part due to lack of effective leadership.\n\nFreethought in the United States declined in the early twentieth century. Its anti-religious views alienated would-be sympathizers. The movement also lacked cohesive goals or beliefs. By the early twentieth century, most Freethought congregations had disbanded or joined other mainstream churches. The longest continuously operating Freethought congregation in America is the Free Congregation of Sauk County, Wisconsin, which was founded in 1852 and is still active . It affiliated with the American Unitarian Association (now the Unitarian Universalist Association) in 1955. D. M. Bennett was the founder and publisher of \"The Truth Seeker\" in 1873, a radical freethought and reform American periodical.\n\nGerman Freethinker settlements were located in:\n\nIn 1873 a handful of secularists founded the earliest known secular organization in English Canada, the Toronto Freethought Association. Reorganized in 1877 and again in 1881, when it was renamed the Toronto Secular Society, the group formed the nucleus of the Canadian Secular Union, established in 1884 to bring together freethinkers from across the country.\n\nA significant number of the early members appear to have come from the educated labour \"aristocracy\", including Alfred F. Jury, J. Ick Evans and J. I. Livingstone, all of whom were leading labour activists and secularists. The second president of the Toronto association, T. Phillips Thompson, became a central figure in the city's labour and social-reform movements during the 1880s and 1890s and arguably Canada's foremost late nineteenth-century labour intellectual. By the early 1880s scattered freethought organizations operated throughout southern Ontario and parts of Quebec, eliciting both urban and rural support.\n\nThe principal organ of the freethought movement in Canada was \"Secular Thought\" (Toronto, 1887–1911). Founded and edited during its first several years by English freethinker Charles Watts (1835–1906), it came under the editorship of Toronto printer and publisher James Spencer Ellis in 1891 when Watts returned to England.\n\nIn 1968 the Humanist Association of Canada (HAC) formed to serve as an umbrella group for humanists, atheists, and freethinkers, and to champion social justice issues and oppose religious influence on public policy—most notably in the fight to make access to abortion free and legal in Canada. HAC, also known as Humanist Canada, operates as an active voice for humanism in Canada and supports the activities of groups who wish to raise awareness about secular issues.\n\nThe Canadian Secular Alliance is an active community.\n\nIn the United States, \"freethought was a basically anti-christian, anti-clerical movement, whose purpose was to make the individual politically and spiritually free to decide for himself on religious matters. A number of contributors to \"Liberty\" were prominent figures in both freethought and anarchism. The individualist anarchist George MacDonald was a co-editor of \"Freethought\" and, for a time, \"The Truth Seeker.\" E.C. Walker was co-editor of the freethought/free love journal \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\".\" \"Many of the anarchists were ardent freethinkers; reprints from freethought papers such as \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\", \"Freethought\" and \"The Truth Seeker\" appeared in \"Liberty\"...The church was viewed as a common ally of the state and as a repressive force in and of itself.\"\n\nIn Europe, a similar development occurred in French and Spanish individualist anarchist circles. \"Anticlericalism, just as in the rest of the libertarian movement, in another of the frequent elements which will gain relevance related to the measure in which the (French) Republic begins to have conflicts with the church...Anti-clerical discourse, frequently called for by the French individualist André Lorulot, will have its impacts in \"Estudios\" (a Spanish individualist anarchist publication). There will be an attack on institutionalized religion for the responsibility that it had in the past on negative developments, for its irrationality which makes it a counterpoint of philosophical and scientific progress. There will be a criticism of proselitism and ideological manipulation which happens on both believers and agnostics\". These tendencies will continue in French individualist anarchism in the work and activism of Charles-Auguste Bontemps and others. In the Spanish individualist anarchist magazines \"Ética\" and \"Iniciales\" \"there is a strong interest in publishing scientific news, usually linked to a certain atheist and anti-theist obsession, philosophy which will also work for pointing out the incompatibility between science and religion, faith, and reason. In this way there will be a lot of talk on Darwin´s theories or on the negation of the existence of the soul\".\n\nIn 1901, Catalan anarchist and freethinker Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia established \"modern\" or progressive schools in Barcelona in defiance of an educational system controlled by the Catholic Church. The schools' stated goal was to \"educate the working class in a rational, secular and non-coercive setting\". Fiercely anti-clerical, Ferrer believed in \"freedom in education\", education free from the authority of church and state. Ferrer's ideas, generally, formed the inspiration for a series of Modern Schools in the United States, Cuba, South America and London. The first of these was started in New York City in 1911. It also inspired the Italian newspaper \"Università popolare\", founded in 1901.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39392864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39392864", "title": "Gašper Tkačik", "text": "Gašper Tkačik\n\nGašper Tkačik (born 1979, Ljubljana, Slovenia) is a Slovenian theoretical physicist and computational neuroscientist.\n\nAfter completing his International Baccalaureate from Bežigrad high school in Ljubljana, he enrolled in the department of mathematics and physics at the University of Ljubljana, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree in physics in 2001. He continued his studies at Princeton University with William Bialek and Curtis Callan where he received a PhD in physics. Later he was a postdoc at the University of Pennsylvania until he was employed at the Institute of Science and Technology Austria.\n"}
{"id": "1865924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1865924", "title": "Geist", "text": "Geist\n\nGeist () is a German noun with a degree of importance in German philosophy. Its semantic field corresponds to English ghost, spirit, mind, intellect. Some English translators resort to using \"spirit/mind\" or \"spirit (mind)\" to help convey the meaning of the term. \n\n\"Geist\" is also a central concept in Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's 1807 \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (\"Phänomenologie des Geistes\"). Notable compounds, all associated with Hegel's view of world history of the late 18th century, include Weltgeist \"world-spirit\", Volksgeist \"national spirit\" and Zeitgeist \"spirit of the age\".\n\nGerman \"Geist\" (masculine gender) continues Old High German \"geist\", attested as the translation of Latin \"spiritus\". \nIt is the direct cognate of English \"ghost\", from a West Germanic \"gaistaz\". Its derivation from a PIE root \"g̑heis-\" \"to be agitated, frightened\" suggests that the Germanic word originally referred to frightening (c.f. English ghastly) apparitions or ghosts, and may also have carried the connotation of \"ecstatic agitation, \"furor\"\" related to the cult of Germanic Mercury. \nAs the translation of biblical Latin \"spiritus\" (Greek πνεῦμα) \"spirit, breath\" the Germanic word acquires a Christian meaning from an early time, notably in reference to the Holy Spirit (Old English \"sē hālga gāst\" \"the Holy Ghost\", OHG \" ther heilago geist\", Modern German \"der Heilige Geist\").\nThe English word is in competition with Latinate \"spirit\" from the Middle English period, but its broader meaning is preserved well into the early modern period.\n\nThe German noun much like English \"spirit\" could refer to spooks or ghostly apparitions of the dead, to the religious concept, as in the Holy Spirit, as well as to the \"spirit of wine\", i.e. ethanol. \nHowever, its special meaning of \"mind, intellect\" never shared by English \"ghost\" is acquired only in the 18th century, under the influence of French \"esprit\".\nIn this sense it became extremely productive in the German language of the 18th century in general as well as in 18th-century German philosophy.\n\"Geist\" could now refer to the quality of intellectual brilliance, to wit, innovation, erudition, etc.\nIt is also in this time that the adjectival distinction of \"geistlich\" \"spiritual, pertaining to religion\" vs. \"geistig\" \"intellectual, pertaining to the mind\" begins to be made. Reference to spooks or ghosts is made by the adjective \"geisterhaft\" \"ghostly, spectral\".\n\nNumerous compounds are formed in the 18th to 19th centuries, some of them loan translations of French expressions, such as \"Geistesgegenwart\" = \"présence d'esprit\" (\"mental presence, acuity\"), \"Geistesabwesenheit\" = \"absence d’esprit\" (\"mental absence, distraction\"), \"geisteskrank\" \"mentally ill\", \"geistreich\" \"witty, intellectually brilliant\", \"geistlos\" \"unintelligent, unimaginative, vacuous\" etc. \nIt is from these developments that certain German compounds containing \"-geist\" have been loaned into English, such as \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nGerman \"Geist\" in this particular sense of \"mind, wit, erudition; intangible essence, spirit\" has no precise English-language equivalent, for which reason translators sometimes retain \"Geist\" as a German loanword.\n\n\"Geist\" is a central concept in Hegel's \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (\"Phänomenologie des Geistes\"). According to Hegel, the \"Weltgeist\" (\"world spirit\") is not an actual object or a transcendental, Godlike thing, but a means of philosophizing about history. \"Weltgeist\" is effected in history through the mediation of various \"Volksgeister\" (\"national spirits\"), the great men of history, such as Napoleon, are the \"concrete universal\".\n\nThis has led some to claim that Hegel favored the great man theory, although his philosophy of history, in particular concerning the role of the \"universal state\" (\"Universalstaat\", which means a universal \"order\" or \"statute\" rather than \"state\"), and of an \"End of History\" is much more complex.\n\nFor Hegel, the great hero is unwittingly utilized by \"Geist\" or \"absolute spirit\", by a \"ruse of reason\" as he puts it, and is irrelevant to history once his historic mission is accomplished; he is thus subjected to the teleological principle of history, a principle which allows Hegel to reread the history of philosophy as culminating in his philosophy of history.\n\n\"Weltgeist\", the world spirit concept, designates an idealistic principle of world explanation, which can be found from the beginnings of philosophy up to more recent time. The concept of world spirit was already accepted by the idealistic schools of ancient Indian philosophy, whereby one explained objective reality as its product. (See metaphysical objectivism) In the early philosophy of Greek antiquity, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle all paid homage, amongst other things, to the concept of world spirit. Hegel later based his philosophy of history on it.\n\n\"Weltgeist\" \"world-spirit\" is older than the 18th century, at first (16th century) in the sense of \"secularism, impiety, irreligiosity\" (\"spiritus mundi\"), in the 17th century also personalised in the sense of \"man of the world\", \"mundane or secular person\".\nAlso from the 17th century, \"Weltgeist\" acquired a philosophical or spiritual sense of \"world-spirit\" or \"world-soul\" (\"anima mundi, spiritus universi\") in the sense of Panentheism, a spiritual essence permeating all of nature, or the active principle animating the universe, including the physical sense, such as the attraction between magnet and iron or between Moon and tide.\n\nThis idea of \"Weltgeist\" in the sense of \"anima mundi\" became very influential in 18th-century German philosophy. In philosophical contexts, \"der Geist\" on its own could refer to this concept, as in Christian Thomasius, \"Versuch vom Wesen des Geistes\" (1709).\nBelief in a \"Weltgeist\" as animating principle immanent to the universe became dominant in German thought due to the influence of Goethe, in the later part of the 18th century.\n\nAlready in the poetical language of Johann Ulrich von König (d. 1745), the \"Weltgeist\" \nappears as the active, masculine principle opposite the feminine principle of Nature.\n\n\"Weltgeist\" in the sense of Goethe comes close to being a synonym of God and can be attributed agency and will. \nHerder, who tended to prefer the form \"Weltengeist\" (as it were \"spirit of worlds\"), pushes this to the point of composing prayers addressed to this world-spirit:\nThe term was notably embraced by Hegel and his followers in the early 19th century.\nFor the 19th century, the term as used by Hegel (1807) became prevalent, less in the sense of an animating principle of nature or the universe but as the invisible force advancing world history:\n\nHegel's description of Napoleon as \"the world-soul on horseback\" (\"die Weltseele zu Pferde\") became proverbial.\nThe phrase is a shortened paraphrase of Hegel's words in a letter written on 13 October 1806, the day before the Battle of Jena, to his friend Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer:\nI saw the Emperor – this world-soul – riding out of the city on reconnaissance. It is indeed a wonderful sensation to see such an individual, who, concentrated here at a single point, astride a horse, reaches out over the world and masters it.\n\nThe letter was not published in Hegel's time, but the expression was attributed to Hegel anecdotally, appearing in print from 1859.\nIt is used without attribution by Meyer Kayserling in his \"Sephardim\" (1859:103), and is apparently not recognized as a reference to Hegel by the reviewer in \"Göttingische gelehrte Anzeigen\", who notes it disapprovingly, as one of Kayserling's \"bad jokes\" (\"schlechte Witze\").\nThe phrase become widely associated with Hegel later in the 19th century.\n\n\"Volksgeist\" or \"Nationalgeist\" refers to a \"spirit\" of an individual people (\"Volk\"), its \"national spirit\" or \"national character\".\nThe term \"Nationalgeist\" is used in the 1760s by Justus Möser and by Johann Gottfried Herder. The term \"Nation\" at this time is used in the sense of \"natio\" \"nation, ethnic group, race\", mostly replaced by the term \"Volk\" after 1800.\nIn the early 19th century, the term \"Volksgeist\" was used by Friedrich Carl von Savigny in order to express the \"popular\" sense of justice.\nSavigniy explicitly referred to the concept of an \"esprit des nations \" used by Voltaire. and of the \"esprit général\" invoked by Montesquieu.\n\nHegel uses the term in his \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\".\nBased on the Hegelian use of the term, Wilhelm Wundt, Moritz Lazarus and Heymann Steinthal in the mid-19th-century established the field of \"Völkerpsychologie\" (\"psychology of nations\").\n\nIn Germany the concept of Volksgeist has developed and changed its meaning through eras and fields. The most important examples are: In the literary field, Schlegel and the Brothers Grimm. In the history of cultures, Herder. In the history of the State or political history, Hegel. In the field of law, Savigny and in the field of psychology Wundt. This means that the concept is ambiguous. Furthermore it is not limited to Romanticism as it is commonly known.\nThe concept of was also influential in American cultural anthropology. According to the historian of anthropology George W. Stocking, Jr., \"… one may trace the later American anthropological idea of culture back through Bastian's Volkergedanken and the folk psychologist's Volksgeister to Wilhelm von Humboldt's Nationalcharakter -- and behind that, although not without a paradoxical and portentous residue of conceptual and ideological ambiguity, to the Herderian ideal of Volksgeist.\"\n\nThe compound \"Zeitgeist\" (;, \"spirit of the age\" or \"spirit of the times\") similarly to \"Weltgeist\" describes \nan invisible agent or force dominating the characteristics of a given epoch in world history.\nThe term is now mostly associated with Hegel, contrasting with Hegel's use of \"Volksgeist\" \"national spirit\" and \"Weltgeist\" \"world-spirit\", \nbut its coinage and popularization precedes Hegel, and is mostly due to Herder and Goethe.\nThe term as used contemporarily may more pragmatically refer to a fashion or fad which prescribes what is acceptable or tasteful, e.g. in the field of architecture.\n\nHegel in \"Phenomenology of the Spirit\" (1807) uses both \"Weltgeist\" and \"Volksgeist\" but prefers the phrase \"Geist der Zeiten\" \"spirit of the times\" over the compound \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nHegel believed that culture and art reflected its time. Thus, he argued that it would be impossible to produce classical art in the modern world, as modernity is essentially a \"free and ethical culture\".\n\nThe term has also been used more widely in the sense of an intellectual or aesthetic fashion or fad.\nFor example, Charles Darwin's 1859 proposition that evolution occurs by natural selection has been cited as a case of the \"zeitgeist\" of the epoch, an idea \"whose time had come\", seeing that his contemporary, Alfred Russel Wallace, was outlining similar models during the same period. \nSimilarly, intellectual fashions such as the emergence of logical positivism in the 1920s, leading to a focus on behaviorism and blank-slatism over the following decades, and later, during the 1950s to 1960s, the shift from behaviorism to post-modernism and critical theory can be argued to be an expression of the intellectual or academic \"zeitgeist\".\n\"Zeitgeist\" in more recent usage has been used by Forsyth (2009) in reference to his \"theory of leadership\" and in other publications describing models of business or industry.\nMalcolm Gladwell argued in his book \"Outliers\" that entrepreneurs who succeeded in the early stages of a nascent industry often share similar characteristics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18418502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18418502", "title": "Geysers on Mars", "text": "Geysers on Mars\n\nMartian geysers (or jets) are putative sites of small gas and dust eruptions that occur in the south polar region of Mars during the spring thaw. \"Dark dune spots\" and \"spiders\" – or araneiforms – are the two most visible types of features ascribed to these eruptions.\n\nThey are unlike any terrestrial geological phenomenon. The reflectance (albedo), shapes and unusual spider appearance of these features have stimulated a variety of hypotheses about their origin, ranging from differences in frosting reflectance, to explanations involving biological processes. However, all current geophysical models assume some sort of jet or geyser-like activity on Mars. Their characteristics, and the process of their formation, are still a matter of debate.\n\nThese features are unique to the south polar region of Mars in an area informally called the 'cryptic region', at latitudes 60° to 80° south and longitudes 150°W to 310°W; this 1 meter deep carbon dioxide (CO) ice transition area—between the scarps of the thick polar ice layer and the permafrost—is where clusters of the apparent geyser systems are located.\n\nThe seasonal frosting and defrosting of carbon dioxide ice results in the appearance of a number of features, such dark dune spots with spider-like rilles or channels below the ice, where spider-like radial channels are carved between the ground and the carbon dioxide ice, giving it an appearance of spider webs, then, pressure accumulating in their interior ejects gas and dark basaltic sand or dust, which is deposited on the ice surface and thus, forming dark dune spots. This process is rapid, observed happening in the space of a few days, weeks or months, a growth rate rather unusual in geology – especially for Mars. However, it would seem that multiple years would be required to carve the larger spider-like channels. There is no direct data on these features other than images taken in the visible and infrared spectra.\n\nThe geological features informally called dark dune spots and spiders were separately discovered on images acquired by the MOC camera on board the Mars Global Surveyor during 1998–1999. At first it was generally thought they were unrelated features because of their appearance, so from 1998 through 2000 they were reported separately on different research publications ( and -respectively). \"Jet\" or \"geyser\" models were proposed and refined from 2000 onwards.\n\nThe name 'spiders' was coined by Malin Space Science Systems personnel, the developers of the camera. One of the first and most interesting spider photos was found by Greg Orme in October 2000. The unusual shape and appearance of these 'spider webs' and spots caused a lot of speculation about their origin. The first years' surveillance showed that during the following Martian years, 70% of the spots appear at exactly the same place, and a preliminary statistical study obtained between September 1999 and March 2005, indicated that dark dune spots and spiders are related phenomena as functions of the cycle of carbon dioxide (CO) condensing as “dry ice” and sublimating.\n\nIt was also initially suggested that the dark spots were simply warm patches of bare ground, but thermal imaging during 2006 revealed that these structures were as cold as the ice that covers the area, indicating they were a thin layer of dark material lying on top of the ice and kept chilled by it. However, soon after their first detection, they were discovered to be negative topographical features – i.e. radial troughs or channels of what today are thought to be geyser-like vent systems.\n\nThe geysers' two most prominent features (dark dune spots and spider channels) appear at the beginning of the Martian spring on dune fields covered with carbon dioxide (CO or 'dry ice'), mainly at the ridges and slopes of the dunes; by the beginning of winter, they disappear. Dark spots' shape is generally round, on the slopes it is usually elongated, sometimes with streams—possibly of water—that accumulate in pools at the bottom of the dunes. Dark dune spots are typically 15 to 46 metres (50 to 150 feet) wide and spaced several hundred feet apart. The size of spots varies, and some are as small as 20 m across,—however, the smaller size seen is limited by imaging resolution—and can grow and coalesce into formations several kilometres wide.\n\nSpider features, when viewed individually, form a round lobed structure reminiscent of a spider web radiating outward in lobes from a central point. Its radial patterns represent shallow channels or ducts in the ice formed by the flow of the sublimation gas toward the vents. The entire spider channel network is typically 160–300 m across, although there are large variations.\n\nEach geyser's characteristic form appears to depend on a combination of such factors as local fluid or gas composition and pressure, ice thickness, underlying gravel type, local climate and meteorological conditions. The geysers' boundary does not seem to correlate with any other properties of the surface such as elevation, geological structure, slope, chemical composition or thermal properties. The geyser-like system produce low-albedo spots, fans and blotches, with small radial spider-like channel networks most often associated with their location. At first, the spots seem to be grey, but later their centres darken because they gradually get covered with dark ejecta, thought to be mainly basaltic sand. It should be noted that not all dark spots observed in early spring are associated with spider landforms, however, a preponderance of dark spots and streaks on the cryptic terrain are associated with the appearance of spiders later in the season.\n\nTime-lapsed imagery performed by NASA confirms the apparent ejection of dark material following the radial growth of spider channels in the ice. Time-lapsed imaging of a single area of interest also shows that small dark spots generally indicate the position of spider features not yet visible; it also shows that spots expand significantly, including dark fans emanating from some of the spots, which increase in prominence and develop clear directionality indicative of wind action.\n\nSome branching ravines modify, some destroy and others create crust in a dynamic near-surface process that extensively reworks the terrain creating and destroying surface layers. Thus, Mars seems to have a dynamic process of recycling of its near surface crust of carbon dioxide. Growth process is rapid, happening in the space of a few days, weeks or months, a growth rate rather unusual in geology – especially for Mars. A number of geophysical models have been investigated to explain the various colors and shapes' development of these geysers on the southern polar ice cap of Mars.\n\nThe strength of the eruptions is estimated to range from simple upsurges to high-pressure eruptions at speeds of or more, carrying dark basaltic sand and dust plumes high aloft. The current proposed models dealing with the possible forces powering the geyser-like system are discussed next.\n\nThe surface atmospheric pressure on Mars varies annually around: 6.7–8.8 mbar and 7.5–9.7 mbar; daily around 6.4–6.8 mbar. Because of the pressure changes subsurface gases expand and contract periodically, causing a downward gas flow during increase of and expulsion during decrease of atmospheric pressure. This cycle was first quantified with measurements of the surface pressure, which varies annually with amplitude of 25%.\n\nThis model proposes downward gas flow during increase of and upward flow during decrease of atmospheric pressure. In the defrosting process, ices (clathrate) may partly migrate into the soil and partly may evaporate. These locations can be in connection with the formation of dark dune spots and the arms of spiders as gas travel paths.\n\nSome teams propose dry venting of carbon dioxide (CO) gas and sand, occurring between the ice and the underlying bedrock. It is known that a CO ice slab is virtually transparent to solar radiation where 72% of solar energy incident at 60 degrees off vertical will reach the bottom of a 1 m thick layer. In addition, separate teams from Taiwan and France measured the ice thickness in several target areas, and discovered that the greatest thickness of the CO frost layer in the geysers' area is about 0.76–0.78 m, supporting the geophysical model of dry venting powered by sunlight. As the southern spring CO ice receives enough solar energy, it starts sublimation of the CO ice from the bottom. This vapor accumulates under the slab rapidly increasing pressure and erupting. High-pressure gas flows through at speeds of or more; under the slab, the gas erodes ground as it rushes toward the vents, snatching up loose particles of sand and carving the spidery network of grooves. The dark material falls back to the surface and may be taken up slope by wind, creating dark wind streak patterns on the ice cap. This model is consistent with past observations. The location, size and direction of these fans\nare useful to quantifying seasonal winds and sublimation activity. \n\nIt is clear that sublimation of the base of the seasonal ice cap is more than capable of generating a substantial overpressure, which is four orders of magnitude higher than the ice overburden pressure and five orders of magnitude higher than atmospheric pressure as discussed above.\n\nThe observation that a few dark spots form before sunrise, with significant spot formation occurring immediately following sunrise, supports the notion that the system is powered by solar energy. Eventually the ice is completely removed and the dark granular material is back on the surface; the cycle repeats many times.\n\nLaboratory experiments performed in 2016 were able to trigger dust eruptions from a layer of dust inside a ice slab under Martian atmospheric conditions, lending support to the jet and fan production model.\n\nData obtained by the Mars Express satellite, made it possible in 2004 to confirm that the southern polar cap has an average of thick slab of CO ice with varying contents of frozen water, depending on its latitude: the bright polar cap itself, is a mixture of 85% CO ice and 15% water ice. The second part comprises steep slopes known as 'scarps', made almost entirely of water ice, that fall away from the polar cap to the surrounding plains. This transition area between the scarps and the permafrost is the 'cryptic region', where clusters of geysers are located.\n\nThis model explores the possibility of active water-driven erosive structures, where soil and water derived from the shallow sub-surface layer is expelled up by CO gas through fissures eroding joints to create spider-like radiating tributaries capped with mud-like material and/or ice.\n\nA European team proposes that the features could be a sign that non-solar energy source is responsible of the jets, subsurface heat wave for instance. This model is difficult to reconcile with the evidence collected in the form of thermal emission (infrared) imaging, which shows that the fans, spots and blotches are produced by expulsion of cold fluids or cold gases.\n\nMichael C. Malin, a planetary scientist and designer of the cameras used by the Mars Global Surveyor that obtained the earliest images of the CO geyser phenomenon, is studying the images acquired of specific areas and he tracks their changes over a period of a few years. In 2000, he modelled the fans and spots' dynamics as a complex process of carbon dioxide (CO) and water sublimation and re-precipitation. The typical pattern of defrosting proceeds from the initiation of small, dark spots typically located at the margins of dunes; these spots individually enlarge and eventually all coalesce. The pattern the enlargement follows is distinct and characteristic: a dark nuclear spot enlarges slowly, often with a bright outer zone or 'halo'. As these are progressive, centripetal phenomena, each location of the light zone is overtaken by an expanding dark zone. Although initially developed along dune margins, spot formation quickly spreads onto and between dunes. As spring progresses, fan-shaped tails ('spiders') develop from the central spot. Defrosting occurs as the low albedo polar sand heats beneath an optically thin layer of frost, causing the frost to evaporate. This is the dark nucleus of the spots seen on dunes. As the vapor moves laterally, it encounters cold air and precipitates, forming the bright halo. This precipitated frost is again vaporized as the uncovered zone of sand expands; the cycle repeats many times.\n\nWhile the European Space Agency (ESA) has not yet formulated a theory or model, they have stated that the process of frost sublimation is not compatible with a few important features observed in the images, and that the location and shape of the spots is at odds with a physical explanation, specifically, because the channels appear to radiate downhill as much as they radiate uphill, defying gravity.\n\nA team of Hungarian scientists propose that the dark dune spots and channels may be colonies of photosynthetic Martian microorganisms, which over-winter beneath the ice cap, and as the sunlight returns to the pole during early spring, light penetrates the ice, the microorganisms photosynthesise and heat their immediate surroundings. A pocket of liquid water, which would normally evaporate instantly in the thin Martian atmosphere, is trapped around them by the overlying ice. As this ice layer thins, the microorganisms show through grey. When it has completely melted, they rapidly desiccate and turn black surrounded by a grey aureole. The Hungarian scientists think that even a complex sublimation process is insufficient to explain the formation and evolution of the dark dune spots in space and time. Since their discovery, fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke promoted these formations as deserving of study from an astrobiological perspective.\n\nA multinational European team suggests that if liquid water is present in the spiders' channels during their annual defrost cycle, the structures might provide a niche where certain microscopic life forms could have retreated and adapted while sheltered from UV solar radiation. British and German teams also consider the possibility that organic matter, microbes, or even simple plants might co-exist with these inorganic formations, especially if the mechanism includes liquid water and a geothermal energy source. However, they also remark that the majority of geological structures may be accounted for without invoking any organic \"life on Mars\" hypothesis. (See also: Life on Mars.)\n\nThere is no direct data on these features other than images taken in the visible and infrared spectra, and development of the Mars Geyser Hopper lander is under consideration to study the geyser-like systems. It has not yet been formally proposed nor funded.\n\n"}
{"id": "3597541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3597541", "title": "God helmet", "text": "God helmet\n\nThe God Helmet is an experimental apparatus originally called the Koren helmet after its inventor Stanley Koren. It was developed by Koren and neuroscientist Michael Persinger to study creativity, religious experience and the effects of subtle stimulation of the temporal lobes. Reports by participants of a \"sensed presence\" while wearing the God helmet brought public attention and resulted in several TV documentaries. The device has been used in Persinger's research in the field of neurotheology, the study of the purported neural correlations of religion and spirituality. The apparatus, placed on the head of an experimental subject, generates very weak magnetic fields, that Persinger refers to as \"complex.\" Like other neural stimulation with low-intensity magnetic fields, these fields are approximately as strong as those generated by a land line telephone handset or an ordinary hair dryer, but far weaker than that of an ordinary refrigerator magnet and approximately a million times weaker than transcranial magnetic stimulation.\n\nPersinger reports that many subjects have reported \"mystical experiences and altered states\" while wearing the God Helmet. The foundations of his theory have been criticised in the scientific press. Anecdotal reports by journalists, academics and documentarists have been mixed and several effects reported by Persinger have not yet been independently replicated. One attempt at replication published in the scientific literature reported a failure to reproduce Persinger's effects and the authors proposed that the suggestibility of participants, improper blinding of participants or idiosyncratic methodology could explain Persinger's results. Persinger argues that the replication was technically flawed, but the researchers have stood by their replication. Only one group has published a direct replication of one God Helmet experiment. Other groups have reported no effects at all or have generated similar experiences by using sham helmets, or helmets that are not turned on, and have concluded that personality differences in the participants explain these unusual experiences.\n\nThe God Helmet was not specifically designed to elicit visions of God, but to test several of Persinger's hypotheses about brain function. The first of these is the Vectorial Hemisphericity Hypothesis, which proposes that the human sense of self has two components, one on each side of the brain, that ordinarily work together but in which the left hemisphere is usually dominant. Persinger argues that the two hemispheres make different contributions to a single sense of self, but under certain conditions can appear as two separate 'selves'. Persinger and Koren designed the God Helmet in an attempt to create conditions in which contributions to the sense of self from both cerebral hemispheres is disrupted.\n\nThe second experimental hypothesis was that when communication between the left and right senses of self is disturbed, as they report it is while wearing the God Helmet, the usually-subordinate 'self' in the right hemisphere intrudes into the awareness of the left-hemispheric dominant self, causing what Persinger refers to as \"interhemispheric intrusions\".\n\nThe third hypothesis was that \"visitor experiences\" could be explained by such \"interhemispheric intrusions\" caused by a disruption in \"vectorial hemisphericity\". Persinger theorises that many paranormal experiences, feelings of having lived past lives, felt presences of non-physical beings, ghosts, muses, and other \"spiritual beings\", are examples of interhemispheric intrusions (an idea originally proposed in 1976 in Julian Jaynes' bicameralism hypothesis).\n\nThe God Helmet experiments were also intended, though not specifically designed (see above), to validate the idea that religious and mystic experiences are artifacts of temporal lobe function.\n\nPersinger uses a modified snowmobile helmet that incorporates solenoids placed over the temporal lobes. This device produces magnetic fields that Persinger describes as \"weak but complex\" (1 microTesla). The pattern of fluctuation in these magnetic fields is derived from physiological sources, for example patterns that appear in EEG traces taken from limbic structures. The purpose of exposing magnetic fields patterned after neurophysiological sources, such as the burst-firing profile of the amygdala, is to enhance the probability of activating the structure from which the signal was derived.\n\nThe sessions are conducted with the subject seated in an acoustic chamber. The acoustic chamber is also a Faraday cage, shielding out all EMF emissions and radiation except the Earth's magnetic field. Persinger reports that this shielding allows him to use the apparatus to investigate the effects of geomagnetism on the human brain.\n\nNeither the God Helmet, nor technologies derived from it, are examples of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), which uses magnetic fields on the order of one million times stronger than those used in Persinger's lab. Despite this, Persinger reports similar effect sizes with his apparatus. The magnetic fields employed in TMS and in Persinger's experiments are also very different. TMS uses single, paired, and repetitive pulses of high intensity to penetrate the cranium. In contrast, Persinger's apparatus uses weak complex magnetic signals patterned after physiological processes, such as one derived from limbic burst firing.\n\nMost reports from Persinger's lab consist of people sensing \"presences\"; people often interpreted these to be that of angels, a deceased being known to the subject, or a group of beings of some kind. There have also been reports in which the participant has experienced what they perceive as God. Persinger reports that \"at least\" 80 percent of his participants experience a presence beside them in the room, and others report less evocative experiences of \"another consciousness or sentient being\".\n\nThe scientist and science writer Richard Dawkins, appearing in the BBC science documentary series \"Horizon\", did not have a 'sensed presence' experience, but instead felt at times 'slightly dizzy', 'quite strange' and had sensations in his limbs and changes in his breathing. He summarised his experience as follows: \"It pretty much felt as though I was in total darkness, with a helmet on my head and pleasantly relaxed\". Persinger explained Dawkins' limited results in terms of his low score on a psychological scale measuring temporal lobe sensitivity.\n\nIn contrast, the experimental psychologist, and former parapsychology researcher, Susan Blackmore said: \"When I went to Persinger's lab and underwent his procedures I had the most extraordinary experiences I've ever had… I'll be surprised if it turns out to be a placebo effect.\"\n\nJack Hitt, a journalist from \"Wired\" magazine, visited Persinger's lab in 1999 and expressed confusion over Persinger's post-stimulation debriefing (\"One question: Did the red bulb on the wall grow larger or smaller? There was a red bulb on the wall? I hadn't noticed.\") and reported: \"Many other questions suggest that there were other experiences I should have had, but to be honest, I didn't. In fact, as transcendental experiences go, on a scale of 1 to 10, Persinger's helmet falls somewhere around, oh, 4. Even though I did have a fairly convincing out-of-body experience, I'm disappointed relative to the great expectations and anxieties I had going in.\"\n\nIn December 2004 \"Nature\" reported that a group of Swedish researchers led by Pehr Granqvist, a psychologist at Uppsala University in Sweden, had attempted to replicate Persinger's experiments under double-blind conditions, and were not able to reproduce the effect. The study was published in \"Neuroscience Letters\" in 2005. Granqvist \"et al\" concluded that the presence or absence of the magnetic field had no relationship with any religious or spiritual experience reported by the participants, but was predicted entirely by their suggestibility and personality traits. Persinger, however, took issue with the Swedish attempt to replicate his work. \"They didn't replicate it, not even close,\" he says. He argued that the Swedish group did not expose the subjects to magnetic fields for long enough to produce an effect. Granqvist \"et al.\" respond that Persinger agreed with their proposed methodology beforehand and they stand by their replication.\n\nThe theoretical basis for the God helmet, especially the connection between temporal lobe function and mystic experiences, has also been questioned.\n\nOnly one group unconnected to Persinger's lab has so far succeeded in replicating the effects of one of Persinger's early studies. They reported that their experiment had ruled out suggestibility as an explanation for Persinger's effects, and that analysis of their subjects’ verbal reports revealed significant differences between the speech of subjects and controls, as well as less robust effects for suggestion and expectation.\n\nOther groups have subsequently found that individual differences such as strong belief in the paranormal and magical ideation predict some alterations in consciousness and reported \"exceptional experiences\" when Persinger et al's experimental set-up and procedure are reproduced, but with a sham \"God helmet\" that is completely inert or a helmet that is turned off. These groups have concluded that psychological factors must have played an important role in prior experiments.\n\nPersinger and colleagues also developed a device nicknamed \"The Octopus\" which uses solenoids around the whole brain, in a circle just above subject's ears. Commercial versions of the God helmet, Octopus and associated devices are sold by Persinger’s research associate Todd Murphy, and he reports that his devices are able to modulate emotional states in addition to enhancing meditation and generating altered states. One experiment found no changes in emotional responses to photographs whether the device was on or off, Persinger and colleagues report significant changes in subjects' EEG during stimulation with a Shakti system. In one report by Persinger's lab, these changes were correlated with an out-of-body experience.\n\nOne published attempt to test Persinger's theories regarding the psychological effects of environmental magnetic fields, used whole-body exposure to magnetic fields and ultrasound in freely-moving participants to create a \"haunted room\" within which it was hoped subjects would sense a \"presence\". The study found that reports of unusual experiences were unrelated with the presence or absence of \"complex\" environmental electromagnetic fields similar to Persinger's. They concluded that the effects were likely due to suggestibility, though they did not directly measure it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6664033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6664033", "title": "Hassler (vessel)", "text": "Hassler (vessel)\n\nThe United States Coast Survey Schooner \"Hassler\" was the first iron-hulled steamship used in the service of the U.S. Coast Survey.\n\nPlans for a new ship to chart the waters of U.S. Pacific Coast were drawn up in early 1870 by Carlile Patterson, the Hydrographic Inspector of the U.S. Coast Survey. Patterson called for an iron-hulled ship of about 325 tons, with a draft of no more than and a top speed of . He required that the ship used no more than 2½ tons of coal per day, and could hold two months provisions for a crew of 37. The resulting ship was built in 1871 at the River Iron Works in Camden, New Jersey, under the supervision of John H. Dialogue. She was a three-masted schooner, equipped with a steeple compound engine, and cost $62,000 to build.\n\nIn 1871-72 the ship sailed on the \"Hassler\" Expedition, under Commander Philip Carrigan Johnson, brother of the artist Eastman Johnson. This was the first important scientific expedition sent by the government for marine exploration. The expedition included Professor Louis Agassiz and his wife Elizabeth Agassiz; Mrs. Johnson; Dr. Franz Steindachner, ichthyologist; Dr. Thomas Hill, botanist; and Count L. F. de Pourtalès, J. A. Allen, and others.\n\nThe steamer left Boston December 4, 1871, and reached San Francisco in August 1872. On the way to St. Thomas surface observations were made. Deep-sea dredging was done at Barbados and along the Brazilian coast. At the Straits of Magellan frequent stops were made, and at particularly interesting places several days were spent, and inland excursions undertaken, especially to examine glaciers. Throughout the route collections were made, with much of this material deposited in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University. Some of the zoological results of the expedition were published by Agassiz, Lyman, and Pourtalès.\n\nAfter nearly 25 years in service, mostly around the Alaskan coast, the \"Hassler\" was finally decommissioned on May 25, 1895. In August 1897 she was sold to the McGuire Brothers for $15,700, and renamed Clara Nevada. She sailed from Seattle on January 26, 1898, with a crew of 40 men, bound for Skagway, Alaska with 165 passengers heading for the Klondike gold fields. Late on February 5, 1898, the \"Clara Nevada\" left Skagway with between 25 and 40 passengers aboard. During the night she struck an uncharted rock several hundred yards north of Eldred Rock and sank immediately. There were no survivors.\n"}
{"id": "6929196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6929196", "title": "Herman D. Farrell Jr.", "text": "Herman D. Farrell Jr.\n\nHerman Daniel “Denny” Farrell Jr. (February 4, 1932 – May 26, 2018) was an American politician from New York. He was a Democratic member of the New York State Assembly representing the Manhattan neighborhoods of West Harlem, Inwood and Washington Heights from 1975 to 2017.\n\nFarrell was born February 4, 1932 in Manhattan. His parents, Herman, Sr. and Amy Gladys, owned a dress shop. He graduated from George Washington High School in Washington Heights. Before working in politics, he was a cook and an auto mechanic.\n\nHe worked for Mayor John Lindsay, then, in 1966, began work as a confidential aide to a state Supreme Court justice.\n\nIn 1970, he was elected a Democratic state committeeman. First elected to the New York Assembly in 1974, Farrell was a longtime Chairman of the powerful Assembly Ways and Means Committee, as well as a member of the Assembly Rules Committee and the Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus. He previously served as Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Banks from 1979 to 1994.\n\nFarrell played a pivotal role in the passage of several significant pieces of legislation, including the Omnibus Consumer Protection and Banking Legislation Act, which established a toll-free number at the New York State Banking Department that dispenses information about credit card interest rates, fees and grace periods, and a mandate for banks to furnish low-cost checking accounts to its customers. He also played an important role in the passage of the Neighborhood Preservation Companies Act, whereby New York State funds community organizations that \"provide tenant advocacy.\"\n\nHowever, Farrell is most widely known for having been a prominent member of the state (and to a lesser extent, national) Democratic Party. He was first elected as a Democratic State Committeeman in 1970, serving a two-year term. Subsequently, he was elected as the Leader of the New York County Democratic Party (1981-2009) and Vice-Chair of the New York State Democratic Party, in which capacity he served for a decade. He was Chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee from 2001 to 2006. He also served as a member of the Democratic National Committee. Farrell resigned from the State Assembly in September 2017.\n\nFarrell entered the Democratic primary against Ed Koch in the 1985 election for Mayor. Although Farrell’s entry into the race initially created some bad blood, David Dinkins credited him for paving the way for Dinkins’ victory in 1989.\n\nFarrell’s late entry into the race was a surprise to the party and caused a split between party leaders in Manhattan and the outer boroughs and between black and Latino politicians. At the time, Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo believed he would win the endorsement of the Coalition for a Just New York, one of the city’s black political organizations, to form a coalition that could unseat Koch.\n\nHe recovered from an attempt by Council President Carol Bellamy to remove him from the ballot but still fared poorly taking 13% of the vote and finishing third behind Bellamy and Koch.\n\nFollowing the split, black leaders from around New York City met to settle past differences and focus on uniting for future elections. David Dinkins strength with black voters helped him defeat Koch in 1989 to become mayor.\n\nA pedestrian bridge constructed in Riverside Park in late 2017 was named after Farrell as it is located within his Assembly district.\n\nFarrell died of heart failure on May 26, 2018, at the age of 86.\n\n"}
{"id": "6252710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252710", "title": "Hugh Hanrahan", "text": "Hugh Hanrahan\n\nHugh F. Hanrahan (16 January 1947 – 19 May 1999) was a member of the House of Commons of Canada for the Edmonton—Strathcona electoral district from 1993 to 1997. His career has been in education and writing.\n\nHanrahan was born in Antigonish, Nova Scotia, where he would study arts and education at St. Francis Xavier University, then moved to Ottawa to obtain a master's degree in education at the University of Ottawa. He moved to Edmonton where he was a teacher in the city's Roman Catholic school system for more than two decades.\n\nHe was elected to the 35th Canadian Parliament in the 1993 federal election for the Reform party. He left Canadian politics for health reasons after his term in Parliament ended with the 1997 federal election. In May 1999, Hanrahan died suddenly following an acute stomach infection. He was survived by his wife and daughter.\n"}
{"id": "29176704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29176704", "title": "Human Connectome Project", "text": "Human Connectome Project\n\nThe Human Connectome Project (HCP) is a five-year project sponsored by sixteen components of the National Institutes of Health, split between two consortia of research institutions. The project was launched in July 2009 as the first of three Grand Challenges of the NIH's Blueprint for Neuroscience Research. On September 15, 2010, the NIH announced that it would award two grants: $30 million over five years to a consortium led by Washington University in Saint Louis and the University of Minnesota, with strong contributions from Oxford University (FMRIB) and $8.5 million over three years to a consortium led by Harvard University, Massachusetts General Hospital and the University of California Los Angeles.\n\nThe goal of the Human Connectome Project is to build a \"network map\" (connectome) that will shed light on the anatomical and functional connectivity within the healthy human brain, as well as to produce a body of data that will facilitate research into brain disorders such as dyslexia, autism, Alzheimer's disease, and schizophrenia.\n\nAs of November 16, 2018, the project has yet to be officially declared complete.\n\nThe WU-Minn-Oxford consortium developed improved MRI instrumentation, image acquisition and image analysis methods for mapping the connectivity in the human brain at spatial resolutions significantly better than previously available; using these methods, WI-Minn-Oxford consortium collected a large amount of MRI and behavioral data on 1,200 healthy adults — twin pairs and their siblings from 300 families - using a special 3 Tesla MRI instrument. In addition, it scanned 184 subjects from this pool at 7 Tesla, with higher spatial resolution. The data are being analyzed to show the anatomical and functional connections between parts of the brain for each individual, and will be related to behavioral test data. Comparing the connectomes and genetic data of genetically identical twins with fraternal twins will reveal the relative contributions of genes and environment in shaping brain circuitry and pinpoint relevant genetic variation. The maps will also shed light on how brain networks are organized.\n\nUsing a combination of non-invasive imaging technologies, including resting-state fMRI and task-based functional MRI, MEG and EEG, and diffusion MRI, the WU-Minn will be mapping connectomes at the macro scale — mapping large brain systems that can be divided into anatomically and functionally distinct areas, rather than mapping individual neurons.\n\nDozens of investigators and researchers from nine institutions have contributed to this project. Research institutions include: Washington University in Saint Louis, the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research at the University of Minnesota, Oxford University, Saint Louis University, Indiana University, D'Annunzio University of Chieti–Pescara, Ernst Strungmann Institute, Warwick University, Advanced MRI Technologies, and the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nThe data that results from this research is being made publicly available in an open-source web-accessible neuroinformatics platform.\n\nThe MGH/Harvard-UCLA consortium will focus on optimizing MRI technology for imaging the brain’s structural connections using diffusion MRI, with a goal of increasing spatial resolution, quality, and speed. Diffusion MRI, employed in both projects, maps the brain's fibrous long distance connections by tracking the motion of water. Water diffusion patterns in different types of cells allow the detection of different types of tissues. Using this imaging method, the long extensions of neurons, called white matter, can be seen in sharp relief.\n\nThe new scanner built at the MGH Martinos Center for this project is \"4 to 8 times as powerful as conventional systems, enabling imaging of human neuroanatomy with greater sensitivity than was previously possible.\" The scanner has a maximum gradient strength of 300 mT/m and a slew rate of 200 T/m/s, with b-values tested up to 20,000. For comparison, a standard gradient is 45 mT/m, with a b-value of 700.\n\nTo understand the relationship between brain connectivity and behavior better, the Human Connectome Project will use a reliable and well-validated battery of measures that assess a wide range of human functions. The core of its battery is the tools and methods developed by the NIH Toolbox for Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral function.\n\nThe Human Connectome Project has grown into a large group of research teams. These teams make use of the style of brain scanning developed by the Project. The studies usually include using large groups of participants, scanning many angles of participants' brains, and carefully documenting the location of the structures in each participant's brain. Studies affiliated with the Human Connectome Project are currently cataloged by the Connectome Coordination Facility. The studies fall into three categories: Healthy Adult Connectomes, Lifespan Connectome Data, and Connectomes Related to Human Disease. Under each of these categories are research groups working on specific questions.\n\n The Human Connectome Project Young Adult study made data on the brain connections of 1100 healthy young adults available to the scientific community. Scientists have used data from the study to support theories about which areas of the brain communicate with one another. For example, one study used data from the project to show that the amygdala, a part of the brain essential for emotional processing, is connected to the parts of the brain that receive information from the senses and plan movement. Another study showed that healthy individuals who had a high tendency to experience anxious or depressed mood had fewer connections between the amygdala and a number of brain areas related to attention.\n\n There are currently four research groups collecting data on connections in the brains of populations other than young adults. The purpose of these groups is to determine ordinary brain connectivity during infancy, childhood, adolescence, and aging. Scientists will use the data from these research groups in the same manner in which they have used data from the Human Connectome Project Young Adult study.\n\n Fourteen research groups investigate how connections in the brain change during the course of a particular disease. Four of the groups focus on Alzheimer's Disease or dementia. Alzheimer's Disease and dementia are diseases that begin during aging. Memory loss and cognitive impairment mark the progression of these diseases. While scientists consider Alzheimer's Disease to be a disease with a specific cause, dementia actually describes symptoms which could be attributed to a number of causes. Two other research groups investigate how diseases that disrupt vision change connectivity in the brain. Another four of the research groups focus on anxiety disorders and Major Depressive Disorder, psychological disorders that result in abnormal emotional regulation. Two more of the research groups focus on the effects of psychosis, a symptom of some psychological disorders in which an individual perceives reality differently than others do. One of the teams researches epilepsy, a disease characterized by seizures. Finally, one research team is documenting the brain connections of the Amish people, a religious and ethnic group that has high rates of some psychological disorders.\n\nAlthough theories have been put forth about the way brain connections change in the diseases under investigation, many of these theories have been supported by data from healthy populations. For example, an analysis of the brains of healthy individuals supported the theory that individuals with anxiety disorders and depression have less connectivity between their emotional centers and the areas that govern attention. By collecting data specifically from individuals with these diseases, researchers hope to have a more certain idea of how brain connections in these individuals change over time.\n\nAs of May 30th, 2018, the project has yet to be officially declared complete.\n\nHCP wiki - Human Connectome Project wiki\n\nICA-FIX - Documentation on ICA-FIX algorithm used on resting state fMRI data\n\n\n"}
{"id": "891544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891544", "title": "Humanist Manifesto", "text": "Humanist Manifesto\n\nHumanist Manifesto is the title of three manifestos laying out a Humanist worldview. They are the original \"Humanist Manifesto\" (1933, often referred to as Humanist Manifesto I), the \"Humanist Manifesto II\" (1973), and \"Humanism and Its Aspirations\" (2003, a.k.a. \"Humanist Manifesto III\"). The Manifesto originally arose from religious Humanism, though secular Humanists also signed.\n\nThe central theme of all three \"manifestos\" is the elaboration of a philosophy and value system which does not necessarily include belief in any personal deity or \"higher power\", although the three differ considerably in their tone, form, and ambition. Each has been signed at its launch by various prominent members of academia and others who are in general agreement with its principles.\n\nIn addition, there is a similar document entitled \"A Secular Humanist Declaration\" published in 1980 by the Council for Secular Humanism.\n\nThe first manifesto, entitled simply \"A Humanist Manifesto\", was written in 1933 primarily by Roy Wood Sellars and Raymond Bragg and was published with 34 signatories including philosopher John Dewey. Unlike the later ones, the first Manifesto talked of a new \"religion\", and referred to Humanism as a religious movement to transcend and replace previous religions that were based on allegations of supernatural revelation. The document outlines a fifteen-point belief system, which, in addition to a secular outlook, opposes \"acquisitive and profit-motivated society\" and outlines a worldwide egalitarian society based on voluntary mutual cooperation, language which was considerably softened by the Humanists' board, owners of the document, twenty years later.\n\nThe title \"A Humanist Manifesto\"—rather than \"The Humanist Manifesto\"—was intentional, predictive of later Manifestos to follow, as indeed has been the case. Unlike the creeds of major organized religions, the setting out of Humanist ideals in these Manifestos is an ongoing process. Indeed, in some communities of Humanists the compilation of personal Manifestos is actively encouraged, and throughout the Humanist movement it is accepted that the Humanist Manifestos are not permanent or authoritative dogmas but are to be subject to ongoing critique.\n\nThe second Manifesto was written in 1973 by Paul Kurtz and Edwin H. Wilson, and was intended to update and replace the previous one. It begins with a statement that the excesses of Nazism and World War II had made the first seem \"far too optimistic\", and indicated a more hardheaded and realistic approach in its seventeen-point statement, which was much longer and more elaborate than the previous version. Nevertheless, much of the unbridled optimism of the first remained, with hopes stated that war would become obsolete and poverty would be eliminated.\n\nMany of the proposals in the document, such as opposition to racism and weapons of mass destruction and support of strong human rights, are fairly uncontroversial, and its prescriptions that divorce and birth control should be legal and that technology can improve life are widely accepted today in much of the Western world. Furthermore, its proposal of an international court has since been implemented. However, in addition to its rejection of supernaturalism, various controversial stances are strongly supported, notably the right to abortion.\n\nInitially published with a small number of signatures, the document was circulated and gained thousands more, and indeed the AHA website encourages visitors to add their own name. A provision at the end noted that signators do \"not necessarily endors[e] every detail\" of the document.\n\nAmong the oft-quoted lines from this 1973 Manifesto are, \"No deity will save us; we must save ourselves,\" and \"We are responsible for what we are and for what we will be,\" both of which may present difficulties for members of certain Christian, Jewish, and Muslim sects, or other believers in doctrines of submission to the will of an all-powerful God.\n\nExpanding upon the role the public education establishment should play to bring about the goals described in the Humanist Manifesto II, John Dunphy wrote: \"I am convinced that the battle for humankind's future must be waged and won in the public school classroom by teachers that correctly perceive their role\nas proselytizers of a new faith: a religion of humanity\nthat recognizes and respects the spark of what theologians\ncall divinity in every human being...The classroom must and will become an arena of conflict between the old and new -- the rotting corpse of Christianity, together with all its adjacent evils and misery, and the new faith of humanism, resplendent with the promise of a world in which the never-realized Christian ideal of 'love thy neighbor' will finally be achieved.\" \n\n\"Humanism and Its Aspirations\", subtitled \"Humanist Manifesto III, a successor to the Humanist Manifesto of 1933\", was published in 2003 by the AHA, and was written by committee. Signatories included 21 Nobel laureates. The new document is the successor to the previous ones, and the name \"Humanist Manifesto\" is the property of the American Humanist Association.\n\nThe newest manifesto is deliberately much shorter, listing seven primary themes, which echo those from its predecessors :\n\n\nAside from the official Humanist Manifestos of the American Humanist Association (\"AHA\"), there have been other similar documents. \"Humanist Manifesto\" is a trademark of the AHA. Formulation of new statements in emulation of the three Humanist Manifestos is encouraged, and examples follow.\n\nIn 1980, the Council for Secular Humanism, founded by Paul Kurtz, which is typically more detailed in its discussions regarding the function of Humanism than the AHA, published what is in effect its manifesto, entitled \"A Secular Humanist Declaration\". It has as its main points:\n\n\nA Secular Humanist Declaration was an argument for and statement of support for democratic secular humanism. The document was issued in 1980 by the Council for Democratic and Secular Humanism (\"CODESH\"), now the Council for Secular Humanism (\"CSH\"). Compiled by Paul Kurtz, it is largely a restatement of the content of the American Humanist Association's 1973 Humanist Manifesto II, of which he was co-author with Edwin H. Wilson. Both Wilson and Kurtz had served as editors of \"The Humanist\", from which Kurtz departed in 1979 and thereafter set about establishing his own movement and his own periodical. His Secular Humanist Declaration was the starting point for these enterprises.\n\n\"Humanist Manifesto 2000: A Call for New Planetary Humanism\" is a book by Paul Kurtz published in 2000. It differs from the other three in that it is a full-length book rather than essay-length, and was published not by the American Humanist Association but by the Council for Secular Humanism. In it, Kurtz argues for many of the points already formulated in Humanist Manifesto 2, of which he had been co-author in 1973.\n\nThe Amsterdam Declaration 2002 is a statement of the fundamental principles of modern Humanism passed unanimously by the General Assembly of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) at the 50th anniversary World Humanist Congress in 2002. According to the IHEU, the declaration \"is the official statement of World Humanism.\"\n\nIt is officially supported by all member organisations of the IHEU including:\n\n\nA complete list of signatories can be found on the IHEU page (see references).\n\nThis declaration makes exclusive use of capitalized \"Humanist\" and \"Humanism\", which is consistent with IHEU's general practice and recommendations for promoting a unified Humanist identity. To further promote Humanist identity, these words are also free of any adjectives, as recommended by prominent members of IHEU. Such usage is not universal among IHEU member organizations, though most of them do observe these conventions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2959528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2959528", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage", "text": "Intracerebral hemorrhage\n\nIntracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), also known as cerebral bleed, is a type of intracranial bleed that occurs within the brain tissue or ventricles. Symptoms can include headache, one-sided weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. Often symptoms get worse over time. Fever is also common. In many cases bleeding is present in both the brain tissue and the ventricles.\nCauses include brain trauma, aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and brain tumors. The largest risk factors for spontaneous bleeding are high blood pressure and amyloidosis. Other risk factors include alcoholism, low cholesterol, blood thinners, and cocaine use. Diagnosis is typically by CT scan. Other conditions that may present similarly include ischemic stroke.\nTreatment should typically be carried out in an intensive care unit. Guidelines recommended decreasing the blood pressure to a systolic of 140 mmHg. Blood thinners should be reversed if possible and blood sugar kept in the normal range. Surgery to place a ventricular drain may be used to treat hydrocephalus but corticosteroids should not be used. Surgery to remove the blood is useful in certain cases.\nCerebral bleeding affects about 2.5 per 10,000 people each year. It occurs more often in males and older people. About 44% of those affected die within a month. A good outcome occurs in about 20% of those affected. Strokes were first divided into their two major types, bleeding and insufficient blood flow, in 1823.\n\nPeople with intracerebral bleeding have symptoms that correspond to the functions controlled by the area of the brain that is damaged by the bleed. Other symptoms include those that indicate a rise in intracranial pressure caused by a large mass putting pressure on the brain.\nIntracerebral bleeds are often misdiagnosed as subarachnoid hemorrhages due to the similarity in symptoms and signs. A severe headache followed by vomiting is one of the more common symptoms of intracerebral hemorrhage. Another common symptom is a patient can collapse. Some people may experience continuous bleeding from the ear. Some patients may also go into a coma before the bleed is noticed.\n\nIntracerebral bleeds are the second most common cause of stroke, accounting for 10% of hospital admissions for stroke. High blood pressure raises the risks of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage by two to six times. More common in adults than in children, intraparenchymal bleeds are usually due to penetrating head trauma, but can also be due to depressed skull fractures. Acceleration-deceleration trauma, rupture of an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation (AVM), and bleeding within a tumor are additional causes. Amyloid angiopathy is a not uncommon cause of intracerebral hemorrhage in patients over the age of 55. A very small proportion is due to cerebral venous sinus thrombosis.\n\nRisk factors for ICH include:\n\nTraumautic intracerebral hematomas are divided into acute and delayed. Acute intracerebral hematomas occur at the time of the injury while delayed intracerebral hematomas have been reported from as early as 6 hours post injury to as long as several weeks.\n\nBoth computed tomography angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) have been proved to be effective in diagnosing intracranial vascular malformations after ICH. So frequently, a CT angiogram will be performed in order to exclude a secondary cause of hemorrhage or to detect a \"spot sign\".\n\nIntraparenchymal hemorrhage can be recognized on CT scans because blood appears brighter than other tissue and is separated from the inner table of the skull by brain tissue. The tissue surrounding a bleed is often less dense than the rest of the brain because of edema, and therefore shows up darker on the CT scan.\n\nWhen due to high blood pressure, intracerebral hemorrhages typically occur in the putamen (50%) or thalamus (15%), cerebrum (10-20%), cerebellum (10-13%), pons (7-15%), or elsewhere in the brainstem (1-6%).\n\nTreatment depends substantially on the type of ICH. Rapid CT scan and other diagnostic measures are used to determine proper treatment, which may include both medication and surgery.\n\n\n\nSurgery is required if the hematoma is greater than , if there is a structural vascular lesion or lobar hemorrhage in a young patient.\n\n\nThe risk of death from an intraparenchymal bleed in traumatic brain injury is especially high when the injury occurs in the brain stem. Intraparenchymal bleeds within the medulla oblongata are almost always fatal, because they cause damage to cranial nerve X, the vagus nerve, which plays an important role in blood circulation and breathing. This kind of hemorrhage can also occur in the cortex or subcortical areas, usually in the frontal or temporal lobes when due to head injury, and sometimes in the cerebellum.\n\nFor spontaneous ICH seen on CT scan, the death rate (mortality) is 34–50% by 30 days after the insult, and half of the deaths occur in the first 2 days. Even though the majority of deaths occurs in the first days after ICH, survivors have a long term excess mortality of 27% compared to the general population.\n\nIt accounts for 20% of all cases of cerebrovascular disease in the United States, behind cerebral thrombosis (40%) and cerebral embolism (30%).\n\nThe inflammatory response triggered by stroke has been viewed as harmful in the early stage, focusing on blood-borne leukocytes, neutrophils and macrophages, and resident microglia and astrocytes. A human postmortem study shows that inflammation occurs early and persists for several days after ICH. Modulating microglial activation and polarization might mitigate intracerebral hemorrhage-induced brain injury and improve brain repair. A new area of interest is the role of mast cells in ICH.\n"}
{"id": "26589496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26589496", "title": "Kulap", "text": "Kulap\n\nKulap figurines of limestone or chalk were made in Melanesia. The small funerary sculptures from New Ireland were associated with death rituals. They are typical in the hilly Punam region of the New Ireland province in Papua New Guinea of the Bismarck Archipelago. They were believed to contain the soul of the deceased person whom they were meant to represent, and would be ritually smashed once their usefulness or the period of mourning was over. In more recent years, some have been sold in their intact forms to Westerners, particularly to German administrators.\n\nThe figurines were found in an intact form in the nineteenth century. However, as Christianity took roots in these islands, the belief system for Kulap figures vanished. Particularly when the Australian administration of New Ireland was established in 1914, the ritual practice ceased to exist. However, during the colonial rule, the figurines were sold to Westerners for their cultural value. The earliest recorded history of these figures was provided by Reverend George Brown during his visit to an area on the west coast at Patpatar of southern New Ireland where the language spoken was Hinsal. Brown had noted that these figures were kept in a large, painted, corner house, which was well maintained on protected land. The building had kept two, large, painted human figures (one large male figure and the other smaller but not intended for worship) inferred to be linked to some kind of superstition as people danced in front of the figures. Women and children were prohibited entry. The last of the figurines was created ca. 1910.\n\nThe chalk limestone used for carving Kulaps is found in the river beds of the hilly Punam region of southern New Ireland. Recent studies indicate that the figures are also from Muliama on the east coast. In villages where the language spoken is Patpatar, the Kulaps are known by other names, such as \"Katpuo\" or \"Papawa\" in Saraha village.\n\nCarved Kulaps may sometimes be painted. They are produced by artisans from the Rossel Mountains. They may represent either men or women. Some of these figures are carved in \"stylized\" form and painted in pure white colour and kept in small enclosures. The figurines represent the dead, generally in a sitting posture. Only specific people were allowed to handle such figures as it was believed that the “spirit\" or \"soul of the dead” in whose commemoration it was made should be temporarily confined to these figures to prevent them from harming the village environment. However, smaller images of Kulaps made of chalk are kept in houses.\n\nRituals were involved in selecting and making these figures. It involved a male relative of the deceased specifically visiting the Russel Mountain quarries to acquire a suitable stone. The funerary sculpture was made by specialist artists. The carved figure was presented to a local leader in secret, where it would be formally kept, sometimes standing in rows with other kulaps, within leaf-decorated mortuary structures. Only men were allowed to visit the ceremonial enclosure to view and perform rituals to the figures of the dead. Women and children mourned the dead relative from outside the enclosure as they were considered impure to see the figurines. After the specific period of mourning was over, the figure was removed from the shrine in secrecy and destroyed to symbolically represent the release of “the soul into the realm of the ancestors”, otherwise bad spirits could reach the ancestor. These funeral practices are not conducted anymore.\n"}
{"id": "26075619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26075619", "title": "List of cemeteries in Iran", "text": "List of cemeteries in Iran\n\n"}
{"id": "198078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198078", "title": "List of human spaceflight programs", "text": "List of human spaceflight programs\n\nThis is a list of human spaceflight programs, including successful programs, programs that were canceled, and programs planned for the future. The criteria for what constitutes human spaceflight vary. The FAI defines spaceflight as any flight over . In the United States, professional, military, and commercial astronauts who travel above an altitude of are awarded astronaut wings. This article follows the FAI definition of spaceflight.\n\nUntil the 21st century, human spaceflight programs were sponsored exclusively by governments, through either the military or civilian space agencies. With the launch of the privately funded SpaceShipOne in 2004, a new category of human spaceflight programs – commercial human spaceflight – arrived.\n\nPrograms in this section are sorted by the years when the first successful crewed spaceflight took place.\n\nThe Vostok program was a project that succeeded in putting a person into orbit for the first time. Sergei Korolev and Konstantin Feoktistov began, in June 1956, manned spacecraft research. The program developed the Vostok spacecraft from the Zenit spy satellite project and adapted the Vostok rocket from an existing ICBM design. Just before the first release of the name Vostok to the press, it was a classified word. By August/September 1958 a division had been formed devoted to producing the first Vostok craft. The official approval (decree) for the Vostok was delayed until 22 May 1959 by competition with photo reconnaissance programs.\n\nVostok 1 was the first human spaceflight. The Vostok 3KA spacecraft was launched on April 12, 1961, taking into space Yuri Gagarin, a cosmonaut from the Soviet Union. The Vostok 1 mission was the first time anyone had journeyed into outer space and the first time anyone had entered into orbit.\n\nThere were six Vostok flights in total. Another seven Vostok flights (Vostok 7 to 13) were originally planned, going through to April 1966, but these were canceled and the components recycled into the Voskhod program, which was intended to achieve more Soviet firsts in space.\n\nProject Mercury was the first human spaceflight program of the United States. It ran from 1959 through 1963 with the goal of putting a human in orbit around the Earth. The Mercury-Atlas 6 flight on 20 February 1962 was the first Mercury flight to achieve this goal.\n\nEarly planning and research was carried out by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, and the program was officially conducted by the newly created NASA.\n\nBecause of their small size it was said that the Mercury spacecraft capsules were worn, not ridden. With 1.7 cubic meters of habitable volume, the capsule was just large enough for the single crew member. Inside were 120 controls: 55 electrical switches, 30 fuses and 35 mechanical levers. The spacecraft was designed by Max Faget and NASA's Space Task Group.\n\nNASA ordered 20 production spacecraft, numbered 1 through 20, from McDonnell Aircraft Company, St. Louis, Missouri. Five of the twenty spacecraft, #10, 12, 15, 17, and 19, were not flown. Spacecraft #3 and #4 were destroyed during unmanned test flights. Spacecraft #11 sank and was recovered from the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean after 38 years. Some spacecraft were modified after initial production (refurbished after launch abort, modified for longer missions, etc.) and received a letter designation after their number, examples 2A, 15B. Some spacecraft were modified twice; for example, spacecraft 15 became 15A and then 15B.\n\nThe North American X-15 rocket-powered aircraft was part of the X-series of experimental aircraft, initiated with the Bell X-1, that were made for the USAF, NASA, and the USN. The X-15 set speed and altitude records in the early 1960s, reaching the edge of outer space and returning with valuable data used in aircraft and spacecraft design. It currently holds the world record for the fastest speed ever reached by a manned aircraft.\n\nDuring the X-15 program, 13 of the flights (by eight pilots) met the USAF spaceflight criteria by exceeding the altitude of 50 miles (80.47 km. 264,000 ft.), thus qualifying the pilots for astronaut status; some pilots also qualified for NASA astronaut wings.\n\nThe Voskhod program (, \"ascent\", \"dawn\") was a Soviet human spaceflight project. Voskhod development was both a follow-on to the Vostok program, recycling components left over from that program's cancellation following its first six flights. The two missions flown used the Voskhod spacecraft and rocket.\n\nThe Voskhod spacecraft was basically a Vostok spacecraft that had a backup, solid fuel retrorocket added to the top of the descent module. The heavier weight of the craft was made possible by improvements to the R-7 Semyorka-derived booster. The ejection seat was removed and two or three crew couches were added to the interior at a 90-degree angle to that of the Vostok crew position. However, the position of the in-flight controls was not changed, so the crew had to crane their heads 90 degrees to see the instruments.\n\nWhile the Vostok program was dedicated more towards understanding the effects of space travel and microgravity on the human body, Voskhod's two flights were more aimed towards spectacular \"firsts\". Although achieving the first EVA (\"spacewalk\") became the main success of the program, beating the U.S. Gemini project to put the first multi-person crew in orbit was the objective that initially motivated the program. Once both goals were realized, the program was abandoned. This followed the change in Soviet leadership, which was less concerned about stunt and prestige flights, and allowed the Soviet designers to concentrate on the Soyuz program.\n\nProject Gemini was the second human spaceflight program of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It operated between Projects Mercury and Apollo, with 10 manned flights occurring in 1965 and 1966. Its objective was to develop techniques for advanced space travel, notably those necessary for Project Apollo, whose objective was to land humans on the Moon. Gemini missions included the first American extravehicular activity, and new orbital maneuvers including rendezvous and docking.\n\nGemini was originally seen as a simple extrapolation of the Mercury program, and thus early on was called \"Mercury Mark II\". The actual program had little in common with Mercury and was superior to even Apollo in some ways. This was mainly a result of its late start date, which allowed it to benefit from much that had been learned during the early stages of the Apollo project (which, despite its later launch dates, was actually begun before Gemini).\nOf all the X-15 missions, two flights by Joseph A. Walker in 1963 qualified as space flights, per the international FAI definition of a spaceflight by exceeding a 100 kilometer (62.137 mi, 328,084 ft) altitude.\n\nThe Soyuz program (, , meaning \"Union\") is a human spaceflight program that was initiated by the Soviet Union in early 1967. It was originally part of a Moon landing program intended to put a Soviet cosmonaut on the Moon. All experimental or unsuccessful starts received the status of satellites of a series Kosmos, and flights of the Lunar orbital ships around the Moon – the name Zond. Both the Soyuz spacecraft and the Soyuz rocket are part of this program, which is now the responsibility of the Russian Federal Space Agency.\n\nThe basic Soyuz spacecraft design was the basis for many projects, many of which never came to light. Its earliest form was intended to travel to the moon without employing a huge booster like the Saturn V or the Soviet N-1 by repeatedly docking with upper stages that had been put in orbit using the same rocket as the Soyuz. This and the initial civilian designs were done under the Soviet Chief Designer Sergei Pavlovich Korolev, who did not live to see the craft take flight. Several military derivatives actually took precedence in the Soviet design process, though they never came to pass.\n\nThe launch vehicles used in the Soyuz expendable launch system are manufactured at the Progress State Research and Production Rocket Space Center (TsSKB-Progress) in Samara, Russia. As well as being used in the Soyuz program as the launcher for the manned Soyuz spacecraft, Soyuz launch vehicles are now also used to launch unmanned Progress supply spacecraft to the International Space Station and commercial launches marketed and operated by TsSKB-Progress and the Starsem company. There were 11 Soyuz launches in 2001 and 9 in 2002. Currently, Soyuz vehicles are launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan and the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in northwest Russia. Since 2009 Soyuz launch vehicles are also being launched from the Guiana Space Centre in French Guiana.\n\nApollo was a program undertaken by NASA during the years 1961–1975 with the goal of conducting manned moon landing missions. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy announced a goal of landing a man on the moon by the end of the decade. It was accomplished on July 20, 1969, by the landing of astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, with Michael Collins orbiting above during the Apollo 11 mission. Five other Apollo missions also landed astronauts on the Moon, the last one in 1972. These six Apollo spaceflights are the only times humans have landed on another celestial body.\n\nApollo was the third human spaceflight program undertaken by NASA, the space agency of the United States. It used Apollo spacecraft and Saturn launch vehicles, which were later used for the Skylab program and the joint American-Soviet Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. These later programs are thus often considered to be part of the overall Apollo program.\n\nThe goal of the program, as articulated by President Kennedy, was accomplished with only two major failures. The first failure resulted in the deaths of three astronauts, Gus Grissom, Ed White and Roger Chaffee, in the Apollo 1 launchpad fire. The second was an in-space explosion on Apollo 13, which badly damaged the spacecraft on the moonward leg of its journey. The three astronauts aboard narrowly escaped with their lives, thanks to the efforts of flight controllers, project engineers, backup crew members and the skills of the astronauts themselves.\n\nNASA's Space Shuttle, officially called \"Space Transportation System\" (STS), is the United States government's most recent manned launch vehicle and is retired from service . The winged Space Shuttle orbiter is launched vertically, usually carrying five to seven astronauts (although eight have been carried) and up to 50,000 lb (22 700 kg) of payload into low earth orbit. When its mission is complete, the shuttle can independently move itself out of orbit (by means of making a 180-degree turn and firing its main engines, thus slowing it down) and re-enter the Earth's atmosphere. During descent and landing, the orbiter acts as a glider and makes a completely unpowered landing.\n\nThe shuttle is the only winged manned spacecraft to achieve orbit and land, and the only reusable space vehicle that has ever made multiple flights into orbit. Its missions involve carrying large payloads to various orbits (including segments to be added to the International Space Station), providing crew rotation for the International Space Station, and performing service missions. The orbiter can also recover satellites and other payloads from orbit and return them to Earth, but its use in this capacity is rare. However, the shuttle has previously been used to return large payloads from the ISS to Earth, as the Russian Soyuz spacecraft has limited capacity for return payloads. Each vehicle was designed with a projected lifespan of 100 launches, or 10 years' operational life.\n\nThe Shenzhou program () is a manned spaceflight initiative by the People's Republic of China. The program put the first Chinese citizen into orbit on 15 October 2003.\n\nDevelopment began in 1992, under the name of Project 921-1. The Chinese National Manned Space Program was given the designation Project 921 with Project 921-1 as its first significant goal. The plan called for a manned launch in October 1999, prior to the new millennium. The first four unmanned test flights happened in 1999, 2001 and 2002. These were followed with three manned launches in 2003, 2005, and 2008. Unmanned and manned launches to test docking occurred in 2011 and 2012 respectively. It is launched on the Long March 2F from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center. The command center of the mission is the Beijing Aerospace Command and Control Center.\n\nThe name is variously translated as \"Divine Craft\", \"Divine Vessel\" or similar, but is also a reference to a literary name for China with the same pronunciation (神州; literally \"Divine Land\").\n\nVirgin Galactic is a company within Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Group, which is developing a privately funded spacecraft in conjunction with Scaled Composites to offer sub-orbital spaceflights and later orbital spaceflights to the paying public. SpaceShipOne reached space with a pilot in three test flights in 2004.\n\nTier One is Scaled Composites' program of suborbital human spaceflight using the reusable spacecraft SpaceShipOne and its launcher White Knight. The craft are designed by Burt Rutan, and the project is funded 20 million US Dollars by Paul Allen. In 2004 it made the first privately funded human spaceflight and won the 10 million US Dollars Ansari X Prize for the first non-governmental reusable manned spacecraft.\n\nThe objective of the project is to develop technology for low-cost routine access to space. Tier One is not itself intended to carry paying passengers, but it is envisioned that there will be commercial spinoffs, initially in space tourism. The company Mojave Aerospace Ventures was formed to manage commercial exploitation of the technology. A deal with Virgin Galactic could see routine space tourism, using a spacecraft based on Tier One technology.\n\nThe model finally developed into SpaceShipTwo, Virgin Galactic's second generation suborbital vehicle. On 10 October 2010, VSS \"Enterprise\", the first SpaceShipTwo spaceplane, made its first manned gliding test flight. By October 2014 SpaceShipTwo had conducted 54 test flights. On October 31, 2014, SpaceShipTwo VSS \"Enterprise\" suffered an in-flight breakup during a powered flight test, resulting in a crash killing one pilot and injuring the other. The second SpaceShipTwo, VSS Unity, made first flight tests in 2016.\n\nThe Salyut program was the first space station program undertaken by the Soviet Union, which consisted of a series of four crewed scientific research space stations and two crewed military reconnaissance space stations over a period of 15 years from 1971 to 1986. Two other Salyut launches failed. Salyut was, on the one hand, designed to carry out long-term research into the problems of living in space and a variety of astronomical, biological and Earth-resources experiments, and on the other hand this civilian program was used as a cover for the highly secretive military Almaz stations, which flew under the Salyut designation. Salyut 1, the first station in the program, became the world's first crewed space station. Salyut broke several spaceflight records, including several mission duration records, the first ever orbital handover of a space station from one crew to another, and various spacewalk records.\n\n\nSkylab was launched and operated by NASA and was the United States' first space station. Skylab orbited Earth from 1973 to 1979, and included a workshop, a solar observatory, and other systems. It was launched unmanned by a modified Saturn V rocket, with a weight of . Three manned missions to the station, conducted between 1973 and 1974 using the Apollo Command/Service Module (CSM) atop the smaller Saturn IB, each delivered a three-astronaut crew. On the last two manned missions, an additional Apollo / Saturn IB stood by ready to rescue the crew in orbit if it was needed.\n\nMir was the first modular space station and was assembled in orbit from 1986 to 1996. It had a greater mass than any previous spacecraft. Until 21 March 2001 it was the largest artificial satellite in orbit, succeeded by the International Space Station after Mir's orbit decayed. The station served as a microgravity research laboratory in which crews conducted experiments in biology, human biology, physics, astronomy, meteorology and spacecraft systems with a goal of developing technologies required for permanent occupation of space.\n\nMir was the first continuously inhabited long-term research station in orbit and set the record for the longest continuous human presence in space at 3,644 days until 23 October 2010 when it was surpassed by the ISS. It holds the record for the longest single human spaceflight, with Valeri Polyakov spending 437 days and 18 hours on the station between 1994 and 1995. Mir was occupied for a total of twelve and a half years out of its fifteen-year lifespan, having the capacity to support a resident crew of three, or larger crews for short term visits. Mir had 28 long duration crews.\n\nThe International Space Station (ISS) is a space station in low Earth orbit. Its first component launched into orbit in 1998, and the ISS is now the largest artificial body in orbit and can often be seen with the naked eye from Earth. The ISS consists of pressurized modules, external trusses, solar arrays and other components. ISS components have been launched by Russian Proton and Soyuz rockets as well as American Space Shuttles.\n\nThe ISS program is a joint project among five participating space agencies: NASA, Roscosmos, JAXA, ESA, and CSA. The ownership and use of the space station is established by intergovernmental treaties and agreements. The station is divided into two sections, the Russian Orbital Segment (ROS) and the United States Orbital Segment (USOS), which is shared by many nations. The American portion of ISS was funded until 2024. Roscosmos has also endorsed the continued operation of ISS through 2024, but have proposed subsequently using elements of the Russian Orbital Segment to construct a new Russian space station called OPSEK.\n\nAs of September 2016 there have been 48 long duration crews.\n\n\nPrograms in this section are sorted by the years when their development started.\n\nThe Dream Chaser is an American reusable crewed suborbital and orbital lifting-body spaceplane being developed and privately funded by Sierra Nevada Corporation (SNC) Space Systems. The Dream Chaser is designed to carry up to seven people to and from low Earth orbit. The vehicle would launch vertically on an Atlas V rocket and land horizontally automatically on conventional runways. On 26 October 2013, the first glide flight occurred. An initial orbital test flight of the Dream Chaser orbital test vehicle is planned for 1 November 2016, launching on an Atlas V rocket from Kennedy Space Center. On 3 February 2015, the Sierra Nevada Corporation’s (SNC) Space Systems and OHB System AG (OHB) in Germany announced the completion of the initial Dream Chaser for European Utilization (DC4EU) study. In October 2015 it was confirmed that the second phase of test flights would commence in 2016 and that there will be both orbital and sub-orbital versions of the Dream Chaser \n\nThe Blue Origin New Shepard reusable launch system is a privately funded vertical-takeoff, vertical-landing (VTVL), suborbital manned rocket that is being developed by Blue Origin, a company owned by Amazon.com founder and businessman Jeff Bezos, as a commercial system for suborbital space tourism. \nThe New Shepard makes reference to the first United States astronaut in space, Alan Shepard.\n\nThe first flight of the \"New Shepard\" vehicle was conducted on 29 April 2015 during which an altitude of was attained. While the test itself was deemed a success and the capsule was correctly recovered via parachute landing, the booster stage landing failed because hydraulic pressure was lost during the descent. Crewed test flights are expected in 2018.\n\nThe Indian human spaceflight program,Gaganyaan manned space flight program, is a project by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to develop and launch a crewed spacecraft named \"Gaganyaan\" to low Earth orbit in 2022.\n\nHEAT 1X Tycho Brahe was the first rocket and spacecraft combination built by Copenhagen Suborbitals, a Danish organization attempting to perform the first amateur suborbital manned spaceflight. The vehicle consisted of a motor named HEAT-1X and a spacecraft Tycho Brahe.\n\nFormerly called PPTS (Prospective Piloted Transport System), Federation (, \"Federatsiya\") is a new multi-task Russian spacecraft for LEO, ISS and lunar missions. The spacecraft, when revealed in 2015, resembled NASA's Orion capsule and had a set of soft-landing type legs similar to the SpaceX Dragon V2 spacecraft. It is scheduled for a first flight in 2021.\n\nThe Space Launch System (SLS) is an American Space Shuttle-derived heavy expendable launch vehicle being designed by NASA. It follows the cancellation of the Constellation program, and is to replace the retired Space Shuttle. The NASA Authorization Act of 2010 envisions the transformation of the Constellation program's Ares I and Ares V vehicle designs into a single launch vehicle usable for both crew and cargo, similar to the Ares IV. SLS will be the world's most powerful rocket with 20% more thrust than Saturn V and a comparable payload capacity.\n\nThe SLS launch vehicle is to be upgraded over time with more powerful versions. Its initial Block 1 version is to lift a payload of 70 metric tons to low Earth orbit (LEO), which will be increased with the debut of Block 1B and the Exploration Upper Stage. Block 2 will replace the initial Shuttle-derived boosters with advanced boosters and is planned to have an LEO capability of more than 130 metric tons to meet the congressional requirement. These upgrades will allow the SLS to lift astronauts and hardware to various beyond-LEO destinations: on a circumlunar trajectory as part of Exploration Mission 1 with Block 1, to a near-Earth asteroid in Exploration Mission 2 with Block 1B, and to Mars with Block 2. The SLS will launch the Orion Crew and Service Module and may support trips to the International Space Station if necessary. SLS will use the ground operations and launch facilities at NASA's Kennedy Space Center, Florida.\n\nThe first uncrewed flight is scheduled for 2019, the first crewed flight is slated for 2022.\n\nThis economic stimulus program funds technology development related to human spaceflight by private companies. In September 2014 NASA awarded contracts to build manned spacecraft for low Earth orbit operations to SpaceX and Boeing.\n\nThe SpaceX Dragon V2 is a development of the unmanned Dragon cargo spacecraft which itself has been re-supplying the International Space Station since 2010. The spacecraft will be able to carry a crew of seven astronauts to the International Space Station. \nIt includes a set of four side-mounted thruster pods with two SuperDraco engines each as Launch Abort System (LAS).\n\nTo develop Dragon V2, SpaceX did a \"pad abort\" test in May 2015. An uncrewed orbital flight to the ISS is scheduled for November 2018, an in-flight abort test is planned for March 2019 and a crewed demonstration mission to the ISS is planned for April 2019.\n\nThe CST-100 Starliner (Crew Space Transportation) crew capsule is a spacecraft design under construction by Boeing in collaboration with Bigelow Aerospace for NASA's Commercial Crew Development (CCDev) program. Its primary mission is to transport crew to the International Space Station, and to private space stations such as the proposed Bigelow Aerospace Commercial Space Station. The Starliner is to support larger crews of up to seven people. The CST-100 is designed to be able to remain on-orbit for up to seven months and for reusability for up to ten missions.\n\nBoeing's CST-100 Starliner is scheduled to perform an uncrewed test flight to ISS in late 2018 / early 2019, and its first crewed demonstration flight in mid-2019.\n\nNew Glenn is an orbital launch vehicle under development by Blue Origin. The company expects a first flight before 2020. Like New Shepard, the first stage is designed to land vertically to be reusable. It can launch either a cargo or a crew capsule to space.\n\nBFR is a fully reusable two-stage launch system under development by SpaceX. Both stages are designed for vertical landings and frequent reuse. It will replace the operational Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets. First suborbital tests have been announced for 2019, orbital flights are planned around 2021. With in-orbit refueling and in-situ propellant production on Mars the spacecraft is expected to be able to transport humans to the surface of Moon and to Mars.\n\nThe Iranian manned spaceship project is a proposal by the Iranian Aerospace Research Institute of Iranian Space Research Center (ISRC) to put an astronaut into space. The details of the design were published by the institute in its \"Astronaut\" publication in February 2015. A mock up of the spaceship was displayed on 17 February 2015 during the ceremony of the national day of space of Iran. The head of the institute announced that the spaceship will be launched to space in about a year. The spaceship is supposed be able to carry a single astronaut to a 175 km height and return him to the earth. The spaceship is designed under the code name \"Class E Kavoshgar\" project. As of August 2017, no launch has happened.\n\nThe Orbital Piloted Assembly and Experiment Complex is a proposed third-generation modular space station in Low Earth orbit. OPSEK would initially consist of modules from the Russian Orbital Segment of the International Space Station (ISS) from 2024.\n\n\nPrograms in this section are sorted by the years when their development started.\n\nUnited States Air Force program to put an American in orbit. Canceled when NASA was formed in August 1958.\n\nThe X-20 Dyna-Soar ('Dynamic Soarer') was a United States Air Force program to develop a manned spaceplane that could be used for a variety of military missions, including reconnaissance, bombing, space rescue, satellite maintenance, and sabotage of enemy satellites. The program ran from 24 October 1957 to 10 December 1963 and was canceled just after spacecraft construction had begun.\n\nThe Manned Orbital Development System was a project by the Air Force Space System Division (SSD). It was to begin working on plans to use Gemini hardware as the first step in a new US Air Force man-in-space program called MODS (Manned Orbital Development System), a type of military space station that used Gemini spacecraft as ferry vehicles. MODS was effectively superseded when the Manned Orbital Laboratory was announced in December 1963.\n\nWestern nickname \"Battlestar Khrushchev\" a nuclear-armed monolith station, about 5 times the volume of Salyut 1 and as heavy as Skylab. The station was designed for a crew of 6 and proceeded to mock-up stage before cancellation.\n\nThe Manned Orbiting Laboratory (MOL) was part of the United States Air Force's manned spaceflight program, a successor to the canceled X-20 Dyna-Soar project. It was announced to the public on the same day that the Dyna-Soar program was canceled, 10 December 1963. the program was redirected in the mid-1960s and developed as a space station used for reconnaissance purposes. The space station used a spacecraft that was derived from NASA's Gemini program. The project was canceled on 10 June 1969 before there were any manned flights.\n\nIn accordance with the quinquennial plan of the air forces, the project of a 2-stage launcher plane began in 1965 and was entrusted to OKB-155 A.I.Mikojan whose chief of the engineering and design department was Lozino Lozinsky (55 years). The project received the name of SPIRAL and was to prepare the Soviet Union for a war in space.\n\nThe TKS spacecraft (Russian: Транспортный корабль снабжения, Transportnyi Korabl’ Snabzheniia, Transport Supply Spacecraft, GRAU index 11F72) was a Soviet spacecraft conceived in the late 1960s for resupply flights to the military Almaz space station. The spacecraft was designed for both crewed and autonomous uncrewed cargo resupply flights, but was never used operationally in its intended role – only four test missions were flown (including three that docked to Salyut space stations) during the program. The Functional Cargo Block (FGB) of the TKS spacecraft later formed the basis of several space station modules, including the Zarya FGB module on the International Space Station.\n\nThe Soviet reusable spacecraft program Buran began in 1976 at TsAGI as a response to the United States Space Shuttle program. It had only one orbital flight, an unmanned test, before cancellation. In the process it became the first spaceplane to land autonomously.\n\nThis was the first Chinese manned space program with plans to launch two astronauts by 1973.\n\nThis was the second Chinese manned space program based on the successful achievement of landing technology (third in the World after USSR and USA) by FSW satellites.\n\nProposed two stage to orbit vehicle. Air-breathing hypersonic first stage and delta wing second stage. The German Hypersonics Program and its Saenger II reference vehicle received most of the domestic funding for spaceplane development in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nHOTOL, for Horizontal Take-Off and Landing, was a 1980s British design for a single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO) spaceplane that was to be powered by an airbreathing jet engine. Development was being conducted by a consortium led by Rolls-Royce and British Aerospace (BAe).\n\nThe Zarya spacecraft was a secret Soviet project of the late 1980s aiming to design and build a large, manned, vertical takeoff, vertical landing (VTVL) reusable space capsule, a much larger replacement for the Soyuz (spacecraft). The project was shelved in 1989, shortly before the Soviet Union's collapse.\n\nThe Rockwell X-30 was an advanced technology demonstrator project for the National Aero-Space Plane (NASP), part of a United States project to create a single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO) spacecraft and passenger spaceliner. See also List of X-planes.\n\nHermes was a proposed spaceplane designed by the French Centre National d'Études Spatiales (CNES) in 1975, and later by the European Space Agency (ESA). It was superficially similar to the American Boeing X-20 Dyna-Soar and the larger Space Shuttle.\n\nThe MAKS (Russian: МАКС (Многоцелевая авиационно-космическая система), Multipurpose aerospace system) was a Soviet air-launched reusable launch system project with orbiter that was proposed in 1988 but canceled in 1991.\n\nHOPE was a Japanese experimental spaceplane project designed by a partnership between NASDA and NAL (both now part of JAXA), started in the 1980s. It was positioned for most of its lifetime as one of the main Japanese contributions to the International Space Station, the other being the Japanese Experiment Module. The project was eventually canceled in 2003, by which point test flights of a sub-scale testbed had flown successfully.\n\nThe Russian Aerospace Aircraft (RAKS) is being created within the framework of the research work (SRW) \"Orel\" commissioned by the Russian Aerospace Agency since 1993.\n\nThe Kankoh-maru (観光丸? Kankōmaru) is the name of a proposed vertical takeoff and landing (VTVL), single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO), reusable launch system (rocket-powered spacecraft).\n\nThe Ansari X Prize was a space competition in which the X Prize Foundation offered a US$10,000,000 prize for the first non-government organization to launch a reusable manned spacecraft into space twice within two weeks. Twenty-six teams from around the world participated, ranging from volunteer hobbyists to large corporate-backed operations. Winning Scaled Composites' Tier One project. The other company stopped work or as ARCA Space Corporation switched to other, more immediate purposes.\n\nVentureStar was a single-stage-to-orbit reusable launch system proposed by Lockheed Martin and funded by the U.S. government. The goal was to replace the Space Shuttle by developing a reusable spaceplane that could launch satellites into orbit at a fraction of the cost.\n\nFuji (ふじ) was a manned spacecraft of the space capsule kind, proposed by Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) Advanced Mission Research Center in December 2001. The Fuji design was ultimately not adopted.\n\nHopper was a proposed European Space Agency orbital and reusable launch vehicle. The shuttle prototype spaceplane was one of several proposals for a European reusable launch vehicle (RLV) planned to cheaply ferry satellites into orbit by 2015. There have been no launches.\n\nKliper (Russian: Клипер, Clipper) was a partly reusable manned spacecraft concept, proposed in the early 2000s by RSC Energia. Due to lack of funding from the ESA and RSA, the project was indefinitely postponed by 2006.\n\nProject Constellation, NASA's intended successor to the Space Shuttle, is a program to develop new crafts and respective delivery systems for increased operation in space. It is primarily intended to facilitate missions for International Space Station resupply, lunar landing, etc.\n\nThe Constellation program was canceled in 2010 and replaced with the Space Launch System.\n\nThe XCOR Lynx is a suborbital horizontal-takeoff, horizontal-landing (HTHL),\nrocket-powered spaceplane under development by the California-based company XCOR Aerospace to compete in the emerging suborbital spaceflight market. The Lynx is projected to carry one pilot, a ticketed passenger, and/or a payload above 100 km altitude. The Mark I test model will reach only ; the Mark II production model will be sub-orbital.\n\nAccording to a September 2015 report, the first flight of the Lynx spaceplane was likely to be in the second quarter of 2016 from Midland, Texas, but the company halted spaceplane development in May 2016 and refocused on its LOX/H2 engine technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "30424008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30424008", "title": "Liz Edmiston", "text": "Liz Edmiston\n\nLiz Edmiston (21 May 1945 – 10 April 2008) was a British actress.\n\nShe appeared in several TV series Sentimental Education (1970), Now Take My Wife (1971) and The 14 (1973), Dickens of London (1976). She also made an appearance on an episode of Keeping up Appearances (1993) and was married to fellow actor Eric Carte.\n\nShe was in poor health with diabetes, from the age of 13 she suffered with type 1 diabetes. \nfor much of her life, and died on stage while acting on board the liner MV Oriana (1995).\n\n"}
{"id": "28941839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28941839", "title": "Manolita Saval", "text": "Manolita Saval\n\nManolita Saval (5 February 1914 in Paris, France – 23 August 2001 in Mexico City, Mexico) was a Spanish actress and singer.\n\nShe was born in Paris of Spanish parents and named 'Juana María Saval'.\n\nShe was the mother of the actor Manuel Saval, and the niece of the Spanish opera singer Vicente Ballester Aparício.\n\nSaval died in Mexico City on August 23, 2001 of cardiac arrest due to thrombosis.\n\nShe studied music and drama in Spain, and began her career performing the opera \"Marina\" in Valencia. As a lyric interpreter, she toured Latin America, eventually settling in Mexico in 1938. Over the course of her career, she appeared in over 30 films and television programs, as well as in plays, operettas, and operas.\n\nIn a review of her film debut in \"El capitán aventurero\", the New York Times described her as \"a new and charming Mexican actress.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8343259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343259", "title": "Minna Aaltonen", "text": "Minna Aaltonen\n\nMinna Kaisa Aaltonen (born 17 September 1966; Turku) is a Finnish actress. She played Marianne in \"London's Burning\", Ingrid Coates in \"Dream Team\", and appeared in \"Kotikatu\", \"The Bill\", \"Dalziel and Pascoe\", and \"Lexx\". She also appeared in beer ads in Ireland and in a small part as a newsreader in the James Bond movie \"Tomorrow Never Dies\". In 1994 she was a host of Gladiaattorit (Finnish Gladiators).\n"}
{"id": "2577605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2577605", "title": "Modular design", "text": "Modular design\n\nModular design, or \"modularity in design\", is a design approach that subdivides a system into smaller parts called modules or skids, that can be independently created and then used in different systems. A modular system can be characterized by functional partitioning into discrete scalable, reusable modules; rigorous use of well-defined modular interfaces; and making use of industry standards for interfaces.\n\nBesides reduction in cost (due to less customization, and shorter learning time), and flexibility in design, modularity offers other benefits such as augmentation (adding new solution by merely plugging in a new module), and exclusion. Examples of modular systems are cars, computers, process systems, solar panels and wind turbines, elevators and modular buildings. Earlier examples include furniture, looms, railroad signaling systems, telephone exchanges, pipe organs, synthesizers and electric power distribution systems. Evolution also results in the modular design of species in that homologous modules sharing approximately the same form or function appear in different organisms. Computers use modularity to overcome changing customer demands and to make the manufacturing process more adaptive to change (see modular programming). Modular design is an attempt to combine the advantages of standardization (high volume normally equals low manufacturing costs) with those of customization. A downside to modularity (and this depends on the extent of modularity) is that low quality modular systems are not optimized for performance. This is usually due to the cost of putting up interfaces between modules.\n\nAspects of modular design can be seen in cars or other vehicles to the extent of there being certain parts to the car that can be added or removed without altering the rest of the car.\n\nA simple example of modular design in cars is the fact that, while many cars come as a basic model, paying extra will allow for \"snap in\" upgrades such as a more powerful engine or seasonal tires; these do not require any change to other units of the car such as the chassis, steering, electric motor or battery systems.\n\nModular design can be seen in certain buildings. Modular buildings (and also modular homes) generally consist of universal parts (or modules) that are manufactured in a factory and then shipped to a build site where they are assembled into a variety of arrangements.\n\nModular buildings can be added to or reduced in size by adding or removing certain components. This can be done without altering larger portions of the building. Modular buildings can also undergo changes in functionality using the same process of adding or removing components.\n\nFor example, an office building can be built using modular parts such as walls, frames, doors, ceilings, and windows. The interior can then be partitioned (or divided) with more walls and furnished with desks, computers, and whatever else is needed for a functioning workspace. If the office needs to be expanded or redivided to accommodate employees, modular components such as wall panels can be added or relocated to make the necessary changes without altering the whole building. Later, this same office can be broken down and rearranged to form a retail space, conference hall or another type of building, using the same modular components that originally formed the office building. The new building can then be refurnished with whatever items are needed to carry out its desired functions.\n\nOther types of modular buildings that are offered from a company like Allied Modular include a guardhouse, machine enclosure, press box, conference room, two-story building, clean room and many more applications.\n\nMany misconceptions are held regarding modular buildings. In reality modular construction is a viable method of construction for quick turnaround and fast growing companies. Industries that would benefit from this include healthcare, commercial, retail, military, and multi-family/student housing.\n\nIn 1963 Motorola introduced the first rectangular color picture tube, and in 1967 introduced the modular Quasar brand. In 1964 it opened its first research and development branch outside of the United States, in Israel under the management of Moses Basin. In 1974 Motorola sold its television business to the Japan-based Matsushita, the parent company of Panasonic.\n\nModular design in computer hardware is the same as in other things (e.g. cars, refrigerators, and furniture). The idea is to build computers with easily replaceable parts that use standardized interfaces. This technique allows a user to upgrade certain aspects of the computer easily without having to buy another computer altogether. This idea was also being implemented in Project Ara, which provided a platform for manufactures to create modules for a smartphone which could then be customised by the end user.\n\nA computer is one of the best examples of modular design. Typical modules include power supply units, processors, mainboards, graphics cards, hard drives, and optical drives. All of these parts should be easily interchangeable as long as the user uses parts that support the same standard interface. Similar to the computer's modularity, other tools have been developed to leverage modular design, such as littleBits Electronics, which snap together with interoperable modules to create circuits.\n\nDuring the presentation of the PLM centre of University of Michigan, Grieves launched inside the modular design contest the initial idea of \"Conceptual ideal for PLM\", that introduces: real space, virtual space, the link for data flow from real space to virtual space, the link for information flow from virtual space to real space and virtual sub-spaces.\nEgan (PTC Inc) disclosed the strategy for an implementation of modular design in a PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) contest through a process that starts with a cross-functional input to the definition of the product architecture, and includes an architecture development program that keeps the integrity of the product during its lifecycle. \nGrieves has produced an effective definition of digital twin: “A strategic business approach that applies a consistent set of business solutions in support of the collaborative creation, management, dissemination, and use of product definition information across the extended enterprise from concept to end of life –integrating people, processes, business systems, and information”.\n\nSome authors observe that modular design has generated in the vehicle industry a constant increase of weight over time. Trancossi advanced the hypothesis that modular design can be coupled by some optimization criteria derived from the constructal law. In fact, the constructal law is modular for his nature and can apply with interesting results in engineering simple systems. It applies with a typical bottom-up optimization schema: \nA better formulation has been produced during the MAAT EU FP7 Project. A new design method that couples the above bottom-up optimization with a preliminary system level top-down design has been formulated. The two step design process has been motivated by considering that constructal and modular design does not refer to any objective to be reached in the design process. A theoretical formulation has been provided in a recent paper, and applied with success to the design of a small aircraft, the conceptual design of innovative commuter aircraft, the design of a new entropic wall, and an innovative off-road vehicle designed for energy efficiency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1191276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191276", "title": "Necklacing", "text": "Necklacing\n\nNecklacing is the practice of extrajudicial summary execution and torture carried out by forcing a rubber tyre, filled with petrol, around a victim's chest and arms, and setting it on fire. The victim may take up to 20 minutes to die, suffering severe burns in the process.\n\nNecklacing was used by the black community to punish its members who were perceived as collaborators with the apartheid government. Necklacing primarily police informants; the practice was often carried out in the name of the struggle, although the ANC executive body condemned it. In 1986, Winnie Mandela, then-wife of the imprisoned Nelson Mandela, stated, \"With our boxes of matches, and our necklaces, we shall liberate this country\", which was widely seen as an explicit endorsement of necklacing, which at the time caused the ANC to distance itself from her, although she later took on a number of official positions within the party.\n\nThe first victim of necklacing, according to the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, was a young woman, Maki Skosana, on 20 July 1985.\nPhotojournalist Kevin Carter was the first to photograph a public execution by necklacing in South Africa in the mid-1980s. He later spoke of the images: \n\nHe went on to say: \n\nAuthor Lynda Schuster writes, \n\nSome commentators have noted that the practice of necklacing served to escalate the levels of violence during the township wars of the 1980s and early 1990s as security force members became brutalized and afraid that they might fall victim to the practice.\n\nThis practice of lynching is found in Haiti. It was prominently used against supporters of Jean-Claude Duvalier's dictatorship at the beginning of the democratic transition, from 1986 to 1990..\n\nIn the early years of 1960, when the seeds of the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka (Sri Lankan Civil War) related to Eelam were being sown, Sinhala rioters used necklacing in anti Tamil riots.\n\nFollowing the assassination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards on October 31, 1984 this technique was applied on Sikhs by mobs. https://harperbroadcast.com/2015/07/16/tyres-the-unusual-weapon-used-during-the-1984-riots/\n\nIn the early 1990s, university students in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, were plagued by burglars stealing from their dormitories. The students took matters into their own hands by capturing the alleged thieves, and then executed them by placing tyres around their necks and setting the tyres on fire. Ivorian police, powerless to stop these necklacings, could do nothing but stand by and watch.\n\nIn 2006, at least one person died in Nigeria by necklacing in the deadly Muslim protests over satirical cartoon drawings of Muhammad.\n\nThe practice is widely used by drug dealers in Brazil (Rio de Janeiro, Southeast Region), where it's called \"micro-ondas\" (allusion to the microwave oven). Journalist Tim Lopes was a notable victim.\n\nNecklacing was also widely used in the armed insurrection led by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna in Sri Lanka. A graphic description of one such necklacing appears in the book \"The Island of Blood\" by journalist Anita Pratap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54574601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54574601", "title": "Nihilist communism", "text": "Nihilist communism\n\nNihilist communism is a collection of anti-authoritarian, anti-political, anti-organizational communist perspectives cardinally developed by two anglophone authors using the pen names \"Frère\" and \"Le Garçon\". Since 2003, they have written collaboratively as Monsieur Dupont.\n\nNihilist communism aims to level \"a critique of optimism in the far left\". Rather than attempting to establish new and popular sets of positions, it is counterpoised against, among many other things, the \"religious\" dogma of the Marxist and anarchist milieus. It attempts to disencumber itself of its content in order to explore new concepts and ideas. \n"}
{"id": "18009579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18009579", "title": "Postpartum psychosis", "text": "Postpartum psychosis\n\nPostpartum psychosis is a rare psychiatric emergency in which symptoms of high mood and racing thoughts (mania), depression, severe confusion, loss of inhibition, paranoia, hallucinations and delusions set in, beginning suddenly in the first two weeks after childbirth. The symptoms vary and can change quickly. The most severe symptoms last from 2 to 12 weeks, and recovery takes 6 months to a year.\nAbout half of women who experience it have no risk factors; but women with a prior history of mental illness, especially bipolar disorder, a history of prior episodes of postpartum psychosis, or a family history are at a higher risk. It is not a formal diagnosis, but is widely used to describe a condition that appears to occur in about 1 in a 1000 pregnancies. It is different from postpartum depression and from maternity blues. It may be a form of bipolar disorder.\nIt often requires hospitalization, where treatment is antipsychotic medication, mood stabilizers, and, in cases of strong risk for suicide, electroconvulsive therapy. Women who have been hospitalized for a psychiatric condition immediately after delivery are at a much higher risk of suicide during the first year after delivery.\n\nThere is a need for further research into the causes and prevention; the lack of a formal diagnostic category and the difficulty of conducting clinical trials in pregnancy hinder research.\n\nPostpartum psychosis is a psychiatric emergency related to care of women after they give birth. It is different from postpartum depression and from maternity blues.\n\nThe condition is not recognized in the DSM-5 nor in the ICD-10 but it is widely used clinically.\n\nIt may be a form of bipolar disorder.\n\nSymptoms usually begin suddenly in the first two weeks after delivery, sometimes in the first two to three days after giving birth. Symptoms vary and can change quickly, and can include high mood and racing thoughts (mania), depression, severe confusion, losing inhibitions, paranoia, hallucinations and delusions.\n\nIn contrast, about half of women have the maternity blues after birth, which is characterized by symptoms of mild mood swings, anxiety, and irritability that start about 3 to 4 days after delivery and last about a week. It is different from postpartum depression which is experienced in some form by roughly 20% of all women after birth and is similar to major depressive disorder.\n\nWomen with a history of bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, prior episode of postpartum psychosis, or a family history of postpartum psychosis are at high risk; about 25-50% of women in this group will have postpartum psychosis. around 37% of women with bipolar disorder have a severe postpartum episode. Women with a prior episode of postpartum psychosis have about a 30% risk of having another episode in the next pregnancy. For a woman with no history of mental illness who has a close relative (a mother or sister) who had postpartum psychosis, the risk is about 3%. There may be a genetic component; while mutations in chromosome 16 and in specific genes involved in serotoninergic, hormonal, and inflammatory pathways have been identified, none had been confirmed as of 2014.\n\nFamily history of affective psychosis, prenatal depression, and autoimmune thyroid dysfunction also increase the risk of postpartum psychosis.\n\nAbout half of women who experience postpartum psychosis had no risk factors. Many other potential factors like pregnancy and delivery complications, caesarean section, sex of the baby, length of pregnancy, changes in psychiatric medication, and psychosocial factors have been researched and no clear association has been found; the only clear risk factor identified as of 2014 was that postpartum psychosis happens more often to women giving birth for the first time, than to women having second or subsequent deliveries, but the reason for that was not known. There may be a role for hormonal changes that occur following delivery, in combination with other factors; there may be a role changes in the immune system as well.\n\nFor women taking psychiatric medication, the decision as to whether continue during pregnancy and whether to take them while breast feeding is difficult in any case; there is no data to guide this decision with respect to preventing postpartum psychosis. There is no data to guide a decision as to whether women at high risk for postpartum psychosis should take antipsychotic medicine to prevent it. For women at risk of postpartum psychosis, informing medical care-givers, and monitoring by a psychiatrist during pregnancy, in the perinatal period, and for a few weeks following delivery, is recommended.\n\nFor women with known bipolar disorder, taking medication during pregnancy roughly halves the risk of a severe postpartum episode, as does starting to take medication immediately after the birth.\n\nIn most cases hospital admission is necessary. Antipsychotic drugs and mood stabilizing drugs such as lithium are typically administered but is not clear if mood stabilizers can be titrated to a high enough level quickly enough to be effective. Electroconvulsive therapy may be considered, especially if there is a high risk of suicide.\n\nFamily support may be provided via a social worker.\n\nThe most severe symptoms usually last from 2 to 12 weeks; it can take between six months and a year to recover.\n\nWomen often experience low self-esteem and difficulties as they recover, but many women fully recover; many women also have a hard time bonding with their child as they recover, but end up with healthy relationships with their babies.\n\nAbout half of women who experience postpartum psychosis have further experiences of mental illness unrelated to childbirth; further pregnancies do not change that risk.\n\nWomen who have been hospitalized for a psychiatric illness shortly after giving birth have a 70 times greater risk of suicide in the first year after they gave birth.\n\nPostpartum psychosis occurs in around 1 in 1000 deliveries, but this figure is uncertain due to the lack of diagnostic categories for tracking in databases.\n\nPuerperal mania was clearly described by the German obstetrician Friedrich Benjamin Osiander in 1797, and a literature of over 2,000 works has accumulated since then.\n\nThe French psychiatrist Louis-Victor Marcé (1862) suggested that the menstrual cycle is important and drew parallels with menstrual psychosis.\n\nEpisodes of postpartum psychosis used to be explained by eclampsia, \"delirium\", thyroid disorders, or infection.\n\nIn the UK, a series of workshops called \"Unravelling Eve\" were held in 2011, where women who had experienced postpartum depression shared their stories.\n\n\nSeveral nations including Canada, Great Britain, Australia, and Italy recognize postpartum mental illness as a mitigating factor in cases where mothers kill their children. In the United States, such a legal distinction was not made as of 2009. In the US, an insanity defense is not available in all states.\nBritain has had the Infanticide Act since 1922.\n\nThe lack of a formal diagnosis in the DSM and ICD has hindered research. The causes of postpartum depression are unknown and are under investigation.\n\nThere is a need to better understand whether taking medication for prevention during pregnancy or immediately following birth, is useful.\n\n"}
{"id": "6823521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6823521", "title": "Quickening", "text": "Quickening\n\nIn pregnancy terms, quickening is the moment in pregnancy when the pregnant woman starts to feel or perceive fetal movements in the uterus.\n\nThe first natural sensation of quickening may feel like a light tapping, or the fluttering of a butterfly. These sensations eventually become stronger and more regular as the pregnancy progresses. Sometimes, the first movements are mis-attributed to gas or hunger pangs.\n\nA woman's uterine muscles, rather than her abdominal muscles, are first to sense fetal motion. Therefore, a woman's body weight usually does not have a substantial effect on when movements are initially perceived. Women who have already given birth have more relaxed uterine muscles that are consequently more sensitive to fetal motion, and for them fetal motion can sometimes be felt as early as 14 weeks.\n\nUsually, quickening occurs naturally at about the middle of a pregnancy. A woman pregnant for the first time (i.e., a primigravida woman) typically feels fetal movements at about 18–20 weeks, whereas a woman who has been pregnant more than once (i.e., a multipara woman) will typically feel movements around 15–17 weeks.\n\nThe word \"quick\" originally meant \"alive\". Historically, quickening has sometimes been considered to be the beginning of the possession of \"individual life\" by the fetus. British legal scholar William Blackstone explained the subject of quickening in the eighteenth century, relative to feticide and abortion:\n\nNevertheless, quickening was only one of several standards that were used historically to determine when the right to life attaches to a fetus. According to the \"ancient law\" mentioned by Blackstone, another standard was formation of the fetus, which occurs weeks before quickening. Henry de Bracton explained the ancient law, about five hundred years before Blackstone:\n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a woman convicted of a capital crime could claim a delay in her execution if she were pregnant; a woman who did so was said to \"plead the belly\". In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27421567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27421567", "title": "Samboja Lestari", "text": "Samboja Lestari\n\nSamboja Lestari is an area of restored tropical rainforest near the city of Balikpapan in East Kalimantan, Borneo, Indonesia, created by the Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOS) led by Dr Willie Smits, with the aim of providing a safe haven for rehabilitated orangutans while at the same time providing a source of income for local people. According to Smits' talks for Qi Global and TED, Samboja Lestari has evolved on the principles of People, Planet, Profit, linking community and empowerment and capacity-building with promoting economic development and conservation. Located about 38 kilometers from East Kalimantan's biggest city, Balikpapan, and 87 kilometer from its capital, Samarinda.\n\nThe project covers nearly of deforested, degraded and burnt land. In 2001 BOS began purchasing land near Samboja that, like much of the deforested land in Borneo, had been by impoverished by mechanical logging, drought and severe fires and was now covered in alang-alang grass (\"Imperata cylindrica\"). The name Samboja Lestari roughly translates as the \"Samboja Forever\". Reforestation and orangutan rehabilitation is the core of this acclaimed but controversial project, with hundreds of indigenous tree species planted. By the middle of 2006 over 740 different tree species had been planted; by 2009 there were 1200 species of trees, 137 species of birds and nine species of primates.\n\nThe small town of Samboja was founded about a century ago in what was then rainforest when oil was discovered in the area. The first drilling began in 1897 near Balikpapan Bay. Dutch oil workers moved into the area to work for a company that was later taken over by Shell and later still by the national Indonesian oil company Pertamina. The oil company began cutting wood in the 1950s and as people came flooding into the booming oil town of Balikpapan they cleared the surrounding forest. With the pronounced El Niño of 1982 and 1983 the worst firestorms then known in a tropical forest ravaged the area, destroying what small pockets of forest that remained. Following the pattern of deforestation in Borneo as a whole, the area was now vulnerable to the dry years that followed. In 1997 and 1998 the fires enveloped the region in smoke. The thick choking smog darkened the sky and caused respiratory problems throughout the region and beyond.\n\nAccording to Smits' 2009 TED talk, Samboja in 2002 before reforestation was the poorest district of East Kalimantan, with 50% of the population unemployed and a high crime rate. There had been climate change, with severe droughts resulting in crop failures, along with almost total extinction of plant and animal life. Flooding occurred five or six times a year and there were annual fires. Almost a quarter of average income went on buying drinking water. The land no longer sustained any agricultural productivity and was covered with alang-alang grass (\"Imperata cylindrica\") which produces hydrocyanic acid that prevents the germination of tree seeds. There were many nutrition and hygiene related health problems and life expectancy was low, with high infant and maternal mortality.\n\nIn 2001 BOS began purchasing land near Samboja. It was insured that the purchase of each plot of land was in accordance with regulations and documented by letter, official seal and security copy, that the land was free from foreign influence and that its protected status would be permanent.\n\nConditions were not favourable: aside from the land degradation, the soil itself was not promising - predominantly clay, with hard plinthite clods. Not far beneath the surface there were coal seams that in the dry periods opened up to the air and caught fire. In addition there were concerns whether the area would be sufficient for the population of 1000 orangutans that was deemed to be viable over 500 years in the absence of logging or hunting. Land prices were rising and it would be impossible to buy enough land to support such a population in normal rainforest. The possibility of increasing the number of orangutans per hectare by increasing the density of fruit-bearing trees above the normal figure, in particular the density of wild fig trees. Despite this, forestry experts were sceptical: they believed that once the rainforest was cut and burned down, it would never return.\n\nIn May 2003 BOS bought , most of it with credit from the Gibbon Foundation, also under the management of Smits. In a tree nursery of 3 hectares, 250,000 small trees of about 400 species were waiting to be planted. Of particular importance were the 500 or so species that bore fruit eaten by the orangutan. Many of the seeds of these had been recovered from orangutan faeces all over Borneo.\n\nAs soil-forming pioneer trees the drought-resistant Sungkai (\"Peronema canessceus\") and legumes such as \"Acacia mangium\" which fix nitrogen through symbiotic \"Rhizobium\" bacteria in their root nodules.\n\nSmits drew on his background in microbiology and his doctoral dissertation on mycorrhiza, making enormous quantities of compost for tree seedlings. Along with organic waste, he mixed in sawdust, fruit remnants from the orangutan cages, manure from cattle and chickens scavenged from his other projects in Kalimantan and a microbiological agent made from sugar and cow urine.\n\nThe drive to secure the future of the Bornean orangutan was the central concern of the project. Smits' Orangutan Rehabilitation Project at Wanariset was moved to Samboja. \"Forest Schools\" were established, areas that provide natural, educational playgrounds for the orangutans in which to learn forest skills. Here the orangutans roam freely but under supervision and are returned to sleeping cages for the night. \"Orangutan islands\" were created where the orangutans and other wildlife that cannot return to the wild are nevertheless able to live in almost completely natural conditions.\n\nAt the request of the Indonesian Government, Samboja Lestari became home to 52 sun bears, confiscated from the illegal pet trade or rescued from deforested areas.\n\nThe sanctuary includes a area put aside for the bears including a 55 hectare patch of fenced secondary forest with maturing fruit trees and a river and a second area of approximately 3 hectares.\n\nAlthough there is not yet a return to the biodiversity of the species-rich rainforest of Borneo, a young forest is quickly emerging which it is hoped will evolve over time into such a rainforest. In the tropical climate of Borneo plants grow much faster than in Europe. A tree may reach a height of up to 17 metres within four years. Already dense forest surrounds the headquarters of BOS in the Samboja Lestari area. In addition to the return of bird species (such as the rare hornbill), 30 species of reptile, porcupines, pangolins, mouse deer and many other animal species have returned. The endangered proboscis monkeys are one of seven primate species to be found at Samboja Lestari.\n\nThe local population around the area is a crucial part of the project. Planted around the perimeter of the rainforest is a belt of sugar palm (\"Arenga pinnata\") trees. This serves both as a protective barrier against fires and as a source of income for over 650 families. Samboja Lestari enjoys the support of the local people through its creation of employment such as in the fire protection program and maintaining the security of drinking water resources.\n\nAlongside the orangutan reintroduction work, BOS has promoted forms of farming that do not involve burning and destroying forests, by switching to agriculture combining rattan, sugar palms, pineapples, papayas, beans, and corn along with other fruits and vegetables. A community of 2,000 Indonesians is developing that can now support itself on the land. Smits believes that to develop the orangutan population, their forest habitat must first be built; also, to achieve sustainable solutions the root social problems must be addressed by empowering local communities to take up livelihood options that are more rewarding than logging.\n\nThe contract to supply food for the orangutans is worth 125 million Indonesian rupiah (about $14,000) a month for 150 farmers (the estimated average monthly income for a worker in the villages is between one and two million rupiah).\n\nTo finance the nature reserve, BOS created a system of \"land-purchasing\", a \"Create Rainforest\" initiative where donors can symbolically adopt square metres of rainforest and are able to view and follow the progress of their \"purchase\" in the project area with Google Earth satellite images from 2002 and 2007 with additional information overlaid.\n\nThe Samboja Lodge was established to provide accommodation for visitors and volunteers at Samboja. Its design was based upon local architecture and its interior and exterior walls are made of recycled materials.\n\nIn his 2009 TED talk Smits claimed there had been a substantial increase in cloud cover and 30% more rainfall due to the reforestation at Samboja Lestari.\n\nThe SarVision Satellite Natural Resources Monitoring Centre was established to monitor deforestation and illegal logging and the relentless growth of palm oil in unsuitable locations. A study commissioned by the World Wide Fund for Nature Netherlands with SarVision showed that almost half of present oil palm plantations are not located on suitable land. The use of satellite technology and GIS has enabled SarVison to monitor forests down to the individual tree level, to develop accountability in the management of the forest and identify where palm oil plantations are destroying areas of forest illegally.\n\nAmory Lovins, renewable energy advocate and chief scientist at Colorado's Rocky Mountain Institute claimed Samboja Lestari was possibly \"the finest example of ecological and economic restoration in the Tropics.\" In 2009 Smits was elected to the . Ashoka Fellows are leading social entrepreneurs who are recognized to have innovative solutions to social problems and the potential to change patterns across society.\n\nSome, like Erik Meijaard, say that it remains unclear whether Samboja Lestari is a good idea that achieves results, and that the success will ultimately depend on the extent to which it can improve community livelihoods and achieve long-term financial stability: \"That question remains unanswered, and will remain so for a few years, because that is the kind of time such projects need to be evaluated.\" Meijaard also questions the enormous cost of projects like Samboja, and their financial sustainability, saying, like others, that it is better to concentrate on projects that attempt to protect those remaining areas of forest rather than trying to create new ones from scratch.\n\nFor Francis E. Putz, botany professor at the University of Florida, there is another concern: what if Smits successfully demonstrates that devastated lands can be turned into multilayered stands supporting a mixture of plant and animal species? In the eyes of developers and policymakers, will that then justify destroying existing rain forests?\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38260666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38260666", "title": "Snub tetrapentagonal tiling", "text": "Snub tetrapentagonal tiling\n\nIn geometry, the snub tetrapentagonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic plane. It has Schläfli symbol of sr{5,4}.\n\nDrawn in chiral pairs, with edges missing between black triangles:\n\nThe dual is called an \"order-5-4 floret pentagonal tiling\", defined by face configuration V3.3.4.3.5.\n\nThe \"snub tetrapentagonal tiling \" is fourth in a series of snub polyhedra and tilings with vertex figure 3.3.4.3.\"n\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4430300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4430300", "title": "Sociocultural system", "text": "Sociocultural system\n\nA sociocultural system is a \"human population viewed (1) in its ecological context and (2) as one of the many subsystems of a larger ecological system\".\n\nIn 1979, Marvin Harris outlined a universal structure of sociocultural systems. He mentioned infrastructure (production and population), structure (which is behavioural, like corporations, political organizations, hierarchies, castes), and a superstructure (which is mental, like beliefs, values, norms).\n\n"}
{"id": "33264696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33264696", "title": "Stab wound", "text": "Stab wound\n\nA stab wound is a specific form of penetrating trauma to the skin that results from a knife or a similar pointed object. While stab wounds are typically known to be caused by knives, they can also occur from a variety of implements, including broken bottles and ice picks. Most stabbings occur because of intentional violence or through self-infliction. The treatment is dependent on many different variables such as the anatomical location and the severity of the injury. Even though stab wounds are inflicted at a much greater rate than gun shot wounds, they account for less than 10% of all penetrating trauma deaths.\n\nStab wounds can cause various internal and external injuries. They are generally caused by low-velocity weapons, meaning the injuries inflicted on a person are typically confined to the path it took internally, instead of causing damage to surrounding tissue, which is common of gunshot wounds. The abdomen is the most commonly injured area from a stab wound. Interventions that may be needed depending on severity of the injury include airway, intravenous access, and control of hemorrhage. The length and size of the knife blade, as well as the trajectory it followed, may be important in planning management as it can be a predictor of what structures were damaged. There are also special considerations to take into effect as given the nature of injuries, there is a higher likelihood that persons with these injuries might be under the influence of illicit substances which can make it harder to obtain a complete medical history. Special precautions should also be taken to prevent further injury from a perpetrator to the victim in a hospital setting. Similarly to treating shock, it is important to keep the systolic pressure above 90mmHg, maintain the person's core body temperature, and for prompt transport to a trauma center in severe cases.\n\nTo determine if internal bleeding is present a focused assessment with sonography (FAST) or diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL) can be used. Other diagnostic tests such as a computed tomography scan or various contrast studies can be used to more definitively classify the injury in both severity and location. Local wound exploration is also another technique that may be utilized to determine how far the object penetrated. Observation can be used in place of surgery as it can substitute an unnecessary surgery, which makes it the preferred treatment of penetrating trauma secondary to a stab wound when hypovolemia or shock is not present. Laboratory diagnostic studies such as a hematocrit, white blood cell count and chemical tests such as liver function tests can also help to determine the efficiency of care .\n\nSurgical intervention may be required but it depends on what organ systems are affected by the wound and the extent of the damage. It is important for care providers to thoroughly check the wound site inasmuch as a laceration of an artery often results in delayed complications sometimes leading to death. In cases where there is no suspicion of bleeding or infection, there is no known benefit of surgery to correct any present injuries. Typically a surgeon will track the path of the weapon to determine the anatomical structures that were damaged and repair any damage they deem necessary. Surgical packing of the wounds is generally not the favored technique to control bleeding as it be can less useful than fixing the directly affected organs. In severe cases when homeostasis cannot be maintained the use of damage control surgery may be utilized.\n\nStab wounds are one of the most common forms of penetrating trauma globally, but account for a lower mortality compared to blunt injuries due to their more focused impact on a person. Stab wounds can result from self-infliction, accidental nail gun injuries, and stingray injuries, however, most stab wounds are caused by intentional violence, as the weapons used to inflict such wounds are readily available compared to guns. Stabbings are a relatively common cause of homicide in Canada and the United States. Typically death from stab wounds is due to organ failure or blood loss. They are the mechanism of approximately 2% of suicides.\n\nIn Canada, homicides by stabbing and gunshot occur relatively equally (1,008 to 980 for the years 2005 to 2009). In the United States guns are a more common method of homicide (9,484 versus 1,897 for stabbing or cutting in 2008).\n\nStab wounds occur four times more than gunshot wounds in the United Kingdom, but the mortality rate associated with stabbing has ranged from 0-4% as 85% of injuries sustained from stab wounds only affect subcutaneous tissue. Most assaults resulting in a stab wound occur to men and persons of ethnic minorities.\n\nSome of the first principles of wound care come from Hippocrates who promoted keeping wounds dry except for irrigation. Guy de Chauliac would promote removal of foreign bodies, rejoining of severed tissues, maintenance of tissue continuity, preservation of organ substance, and prevention of complications. The first successful operation on a person who was stabbed in the heart was performed in 1896 by Ludwig Rehn, in what is now considered the first case of heart surgery. In the late 1800s it was hard to treat stab wounds because of poor transportation of victims to health facilities and the low ability for surgeons to effectively repair organs. However, the use of laparotomy, which has been developed a few years earlier, had provided better patient outcomes than had been seen before. After its inception, the use of exploratory laparotomies was highly encouraged for \"all deep stab wounds\" in which surgeons were to stop active bleeding, repair damage, and remove \"devitalized tissues\". Because laparotomies were seen to benefit patients, they were used on most every person with an abdominal stab wound until the 1960s when doctors were encouraged to use them more selectivity in favor of observation. During the Korean war a greater emphasis was put on the use of pressure dressings and tourniquets to initially control bleeding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22323762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22323762", "title": "Tim Wilkinson", "text": "Tim Wilkinson\n\nTimothy David Wilkinson (born 26 July 1978) is a professional golfer from New Zealand.\n\nWilkinson was born in Palmerston North, and was educated at St Peter's College. He won the New Zealand Stroke Play Championship in 2000 and turned professional in 2003.\n\nWilkinson joined the second tier Nationwide Tour in 2005, but failed to win enough money to graduate directly to the PGA Tour. He finally obtained his PGA Tour card by finishing inside the top 25 at the 2007 qualifying school.\n\nWilkinson had a successful rookie season on the PGA Tour in 2008, the highlights being an outright third at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans and finishing joint runner-up at the Valero Texas Open, two shots behind winner Zach Johnson. He made over one million dollars in prize money and finished 92nd on the final money list.\n\nIn 2009, Wilkinson played in the final pairing at the Verizon Heritage, but faded to finish T6. A thumb ligament injury curtailed his season and saw him gain a major medical extension of his playing rights. By June 2010 he had played the 12 events this extension afforded him, and had not earned enough money to retain his status.\n\nWilkinson finished fifth on the 2013 Web.com Tour regular season money list to earn his 2014 PGA Tour card.\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2128541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128541", "title": "Toyol", "text": "Toyol\n\nA Toyol or Tuyul is a mythical spirit in Malay mythology of South-East Asia, especially in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore.\n\nIt is sometimes called the \"Kwee Kia\" in Hokkien. In Thailand, they are called Koman-tong (Male) and Koman-lay (Female). In the Philippines, they have a similar child spirit called the \"tiyanak\". In Cambodia, they are called \"Cohen Kroh\". In South Korea, they are called \"Do Yeol\". It is a small child spirit invoked by a dukun (Indonesian shaman) or pawang (Malay witch doctor) from a dead human fetus using black magic.\n\nThis creature can be evoked to work with a human under its own terms. There are different methods to possess a Toyol:\n\n\nA Toyol is like an animal, so it needs to be treated as such. In order to foster a closer relationship with this creature, below offering should be presented:\n\n\nA person who owns a \"toyol\" uses it mainly to steal things from other people, or to do mischief. According to a well-known superstition, if money or jewelry keeps disappearing mysteriously from your house, a \"toyol\" might be responsible. One way to ward off a \"toyol\" is to place some needles under your money, for \"toyols\" are afraid of being hurt by needles. \n\nAccording to Javanese mythology, the creature is believed to be kept by a person practicing \"pesugihan toyol\" black magic. \"Pesugihan\" is derived from Javanese word \"sugih\" means \"rich\". It is a kind of magic to help people to become rich instantly, but in exchange he or she must perform some rituals or offering \"tumbal\" (sacrifice something) to keep the toyol happy. According to Javanese myth, toyol can be kept for financial gain, but in exchange a female member of the family must allow it to breastfeed from her, sucking blood instead of milk.\n\nPeople normally associate the appearance of a toyol with that of a small baby, frequently that of a newborn baby walking naked with a big head, small hands, clouded eyes and usually greenish skin. It can be seen without the use of magic, though they are unlikely to be spotted casually. \n\nThose who did claim to encounter it described its actual appearance to be childlike (a toddler) with green/gray skin, bald, big red (alien-like) eyes, pointy ears and rows of sharp teeth, and sometimes reported with hairs, like a monkey. Its behaviour is more animal-like. It tends to climb on rooftops either to play or prior to entering houses.\n\nIn old village tales, people keep \"toyols\" for selfish but petty gains. They use such spirits for theft, sabotage and other minor crimes. With special rituals the \"toyol\" can be made powerful and perform murder. A person who suddenly becomes wealthy without explanation might be suspected of keeping a \"toyol\". The \"toyol\" is kept in a jar or an urn, and hidden away in a dark place until needed.\n\nWhat happens at the end of the \"contract\" is not very clear. It could be that the tablet, along with the urn, is buried in a graveyard (with the relevant rituals), and the spirit is then laid to rest. An alternative method is to dispose them in the sea. Or else, a \"toyol\" gets passed down in a family through the generations. This seems to suggest that once you obtain a \"toyol\", not only are you stuck with it for the rest of your life, but all your descendants will also be condemned to own it. \n\nHowever, it can still get released by either the owner or \"bomoh\" (shaman) to roam free. Without a master, it would stray into the jungle or visit homes as an observer without disturbing residents. Based on an anecdote, a toyol confessed that it likes to peek into people's lives apart from the occasional distraction of playing with any toys found within houses. Simply put, toyol is quite harmless without a master but like a gun, it can turn to crime or mischief under the command of an unscrupulous individual.\n\nWhen it comes to stealing money or jewellery, people wonder how the toyol can find such valuables in hidden places where even humans fail to find them. There is speculation that it can somehow see through walls or barriers with its big red eyes (like infra-red) to spot hidden valuables but this is unconfirmed. After stealing, the only traces of its presence are its childlike footprints and fingerprints found at the crime scene if it happens to have dust on its hands and feet. Otherwise, people would not suspect that a toyol had raided their premises.\n\nIt has been said that if any family member of a bride or groom owns a toyol, the toyol will visit the newly wed couple before dawn. And it will suck the blood from the bride's toe until the bride wakes up. This is to enhance the toyol's power. Meaning after sucking bride's toe, the toyol shall become faster and stronger. It is crucial if the owner wants the toyol to be more capable in stealing money.\n\nAlthough seemingly cunning, toyols are supposedly not very intelligent. It is said that they are easily deceived by marbles, beans and sand and strands of garlic hanging on the door post or placed on certain parts of the house. The toyol will start playing with these items until it forgets its task at the intended victim's house. Money placed under mirrors has the potency to ward off toyols due to a fear of their reflection.\n\nIn Thailand, they are known as Koman-tong, for male sprits, and Koman-lay for females. Literally translated as \"Golden Child\". They are used for protection, they can whisper in your ear of impending danger.\nKoman-tongs are usually wandering souls of dead children that the monks would adopt and give them a \"replacement body\". The \"replacement body\" is usually a small statue carved out of tree bark, coral or baby bone. It is then placed in a container, soaked in perfume or chicken blood.\n\nThe story of the Golden Child comes supposedly from a 19th-century Thai tale called, “Khun Chang Khun Paen”. In brief, the story goes:\n\nKhun Paen was a soldier, 400 years previous, a time when supernatural forces played an important part of traditional warfare. Khun Paen had wanted a protective spirit to watch over him in battle. To this end he cut the unborn foetus of his son from his dead wife’s womb and took it to a temple to perform an occult rite. He wrapped the child’s torso in sacred cloth and roasted it on a fire whilst chanting ritual mantras and dark incantations to create the supernatural being with whom he could communicate.\n\nThe more powerful Kuman-tong are made by sorcerers living in the mountains. They would soak the \"replacement body\" in 尸油 (literally corpse oil). This ingredient seems to be crucial as it gives the toyol additional powers. Corpse oil is collected by removing the dead corpse’s chin (using a knife to cut through the bones) and cooking on a hot pan until the oil oozes out. These Thai ones are more subdued and even tempered, as the monks would chant to them daily.\n\nKwee Kia is the Chinese version of the Toyol. These are made from either a fetus that miscarried or been aborted. A medium will take these small corpses and chop off their heads. Once the heads are collected, they will be dried out and cooked to obtain their corpse oil while the bones from the bodies are carved to become replacement bodies. These have to be specially ordered before you can get one.\n\nIf the fetus is five months old, they would carve the replacement body out of its own bone, in which case they are supposedly more powerful. Different Kwee Kia have different uses and different names. Usually the ones made in the deep mountains (山巴) are stronger.\n\n\nToyol have been made into comedy movies in Malaysia with title \"Alamak, Toyol!\"., and Indonesian drama series \n\nThe word \"toyol\" is also the Malay slang for the cheat sheet.\n\n"}
{"id": "231802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231802", "title": "Zoe (Sesame Street)", "text": "Zoe (Sesame Street)\n\nZoe is a 3-year-old orange female monster on \"Sesame Street\", originally performed by Fran Brill. She was designed in her color to complement Elmo, who was gaining popularity at her introduction in 1993.\nBefore Season 33, Zoe wore only her barrettes, bracelets, and necklace.\n\nShe has regularly been dressed in a tutu since season 33, as like many girls of her age, Zoe is obsessed with ballet. Her love of dance in general resulted in the video \"Zoe's Dance Moves\". In Season 49, she returns to her sans-tutu wardrobe.\n\nShe often rides a soapbox-style car around \"Sesame Street\", called the Zoemobile. She has a pet rock, Rocco, much to Elmo's constant dismay.\nThough it is likely she has many relatives, only the voice of her Aunt Chloe has been heard on the show. Recently, her aunt Gizelle, who lives in Swan Lake, sent her the tutu she wears. This is a reference to the character of Giselle in the ballet \"Giselle\".\n\nHer film debut was \"The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland\". Her first video appearance was \"The Best of Elmo\"; she then appeared in the videos \"Do The Alphabet\" and \"Big Bird Sings!\".\n\nStarting with Season 46, Jennifer Barnhart took over the role of Zoe, following Fran Brill's retirement in 2014.\n"}
