{"id": "40698194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40698194", "title": "2013 United States Capitol shooting incident", "text": "2013 United States Capitol shooting incident\n\nOn October 3, 2013, in Washington, D.C., Miriam Carey, 34, a dental hygienist from Stamford, Connecticut, attempted to drive through a White House security checkpoint in her black Infiniti G37 coupe, struck a U.S. Secret Service officer, and was chased by the Secret Service to the United States Capitol where she was fatally shot by law enforcement officers. A young child, Carey's daughter, was found unharmed in the car after it was ultimately stopped.\n\nAt about 2:12 p.m., a vehicle driven by Miriam Carey allegedly struck one of the White House barriers at the intersection of 15th St. NW and Pennsylvania Avenue NW. At 2:13 p.m. she drove into a restricted White House checkpoint at 15th and E Streets NW, without authorization and without stopping. When an off-duty U.S. Secret Service officer placed a metal bike rack in her path to block her exit, she struck the bike rack and the off-duty Secret Service officer who was standing behind it with her car, knocking both the bike rack and the officer onto the ground. Secret Service attempted to arrest the suspect but she continued to drive the car evasively, colliding with one officer who fell on the hood of the car and rolled off. Carey then drove 40–80 mph down Pennsylvania Avenue, weaving through traffic and ignoring red lights. Police gave chase east on Pennsylvania Avenue for a dozen blocks. The chase then proceeded south on 1st St. NW/SW between Peace Circle and Garfield traffic circle.\n\nAt Garfield Circle, uniformed and plain clothes Secret Service officers attempted to box the car in with at least five marked vehicles and one unmarked cruiser, on United States Capitol grounds, on the sidewalk on the east side of the circle. Four uniformed and two plainclothes officers proceeded to surround the car on foot with guns drawn, shouting orders. Carey eluded the box-in by backing into the Secret Service cruiser behind her and driving away, striking a Secret Service officer in the process. The suspect proceeded north at high speed, circling Peace Circle twice and then proceeding east on Constitution Avenue. She got as far as the northeast corner of the Capitol grounds, in the vicinity of the Hart Senate Office Building and came upon U.S Capitol Police Truck Interdiction Point at 2nd St and Maryland Ave NE with raised barriers blocking her path. She then made a sharp left and crossed over the median and struck an unmarked police officer's vehicle that had stopped in front of the Hart Senate Office Building. After ignoring multiple police commands, she revved her engine in reverse at a U.S. Capitol Police Officer who was approaching the vehicle from behind. As the officer ran towards the median to avoid being struck by Carey's vehicle, he and another officer from the U.S. Secret Service started firing. The two officers fired nine rounds each at the vehicle. The vehicle crashed into the kiosk and came to a rest. She was unconscious and did not get out of the vehicle. No officers fired after the vehicle crashed. It was at that time that officers discovered there was a young child in the vehicle and they safely removed the child from the vehicle.\n\nA shelter in place order was issued for the Capitol building during the incident.\n\nCarey was brought to MedStar Washington Hospital Center and pronounced dead. There was an 18-month-old child, believed to be the suspect's daughter, in the back seat of the car. The child was unharmed and taken to a children's hospital. The FBI obtained a search warrant and conducted a search of the woman's home in Stamford, Connecticut to try to determine the possible motivation of her actions. As a precaution, a bomb squad robot was used to enter inside Carey's house at 114 Woodside Green.\n\nBoth U.S. Capitol Police and Washington DC Metropolitan Police revealed that they believed that the incident was isolated and not part of a terrorist plot. Miriam Carey's sisters have questioned police actions in this chase. In February 2014, Carey's family officially announced a wrongful death claim against the US Capitol Police and the Secret Service but still have never officially filed a lawsuit. The statute of limitations for a wrongful death lawsuit is 3 years. That time has expired. The Secret Service has been criticized by various organizations for its handling of the incident, questioning the use of lethal force for a traffic mixup, citing at least 22 instances in which intruders have successfully breached the White House itself without resulting in a fatality. Carey's U-Turn at the White House check point and her subsequent path away from the building was captured on video by Al Hurra TV videographer Danny Farkas which was used during the news cycle following her death, as well as evidence in the US Attorneys Office investigation. Footage from this video has been used to justify claims that Secret Service used excessive force on Carey. The Secret Service has since refused to release the video of Carey's death.\n\nOn July 10, 2014, the U.S. Attorney's Office announced that no charges would be filed against the federal officers and agents, stating, \"After a thorough review of all the evidence, the U.S. Attorney's Office concluded that the evidence was insufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the officers who were involved in the shooting used excessive force or possessed the requisite criminal intent at the time of the events.\"\n\nMiriam Carey ( 1979October 3, 2013) of Stamford, Connecticut was a dental hygienist licensed to practice in New York and Connecticut. She was born and raised in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York. She obtained an associate degree in dental hygiene from Hostos Community College and graduated from Brooklyn College in 2007 with a degree in health nutrition science. According to a family spokesman, Carey had previously been hospitalized for postpartum depression. Carey's mother told ABC News that Carey had been depressed since giving birth. Carey's sister attested that she was \"not delusional\" and had been placed on a one-year medicated treatment plan for her postpartum depression. Dr. Steven Oken, her employer for eight years, described Carey as a \"non-political person\" who was \"always happy\". On the day of the incident, Carey was supposed to be taking her daughter to a doctor's appointment in Connecticut. The FBI found two medications in her apartment, as well as a laptop, a flash drive and three nonfunctional cell phones. Federal officials said she may have suffered from schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and that she may have believed that President Barack Obama was communicating with her. Federal officials said no weapons were found in the car. Carey's boyfriend reported concerns about her mental health and delusions to the Stamford, Connecticut Police Department. On December 10, 2012 Stamford police investigated the complaint and noted that Carey believed herself to be the \"Prophet of Stamford\" and insisted that Barack Obama had her house under electronic surveillance. These police records were released shortly after a Freedom of Information Act (United States) request made by several media outlets.\n\nOn May 20, 2015 a vigil was held in Union Square, Manhattan as part of the Say Her Name campaign to recognize the lives and deaths of black women killed or injured by police. Miriam Carey's family attended the vigil and her name was highlighted as one of the women to be recognized. Carey's name and story has also been featured in the Say Her Name publication \"Resisting Police Brutality Against Black Women\". Carey has been mentioned by critics of the Black Lives Matter movement as an example of the perceived lack of Intersectionality within the movement, citing the lack of coverage and continued discussion of her death.\n\nA Capitol Police officer was injured when his car hit a barricade during the chase near 1st and Constitution Avenue, and was medevaced by a U.S. Park Police helicopter, call sign \"Eagle One\" (N22PP), to MedStar Washington Hospital Center with non life-threatening injuries.\n\nA U.S. Secret Service officer was struck by Carey's car on the White House grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "4061432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4061432", "title": "Abbad ibn Bishr", "text": "Abbad ibn Bishr\n\nAbbad ibn Bishr () (c.587–632) was a companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He was known for his devotion to worship, knowledge and courage in battle.\n\nHe was enthralled by the Qur'an after first hearing it recited by Musab ibn Umayr before the hijra when Abbad was about fifteen years old. The Qur'an had a special place in his heart, and he became renowned for his recitation so much so that he was known among the companions as \"the friend of the Qur'an\". Muhammad's wife Aishah bint Abi Bakr once said: \"There are three persons among the Ansar whom no one could excel in virtue: Sad ibn Muadh, Usayd ibn Khudayr, and Abbad ibn Bishr.\"\n\nIn 625 (4 years after hijra), Muhammad received news that the Najd tribes were planning to attack Medina. In preemption, he assembled a detachment of over four hundred men including Abbad ibn Bishr. Arriving at Najd, they found the men of the tribes had fled to the hills. When the time of \"salatul asr\" came, Muhammad feared an ambush so he arranged the Muslims in ranks and divided them into two groups and performed \"salatul-khawf\" (the Prayer of Fear). Seeing their disciplined ranks, the hostile tribesmen became uneasy. After Muhammad made his presence known, he felt a conflict was unnecessary and decided to depart. On the way back to Medina, the Muslims pitched camp in a valley for a night. The responsibility of guarding the camp was assumed by Abbad ibn Bishr and Ammar bin Yasir, whom Muhammad had paired as brothers following his arrival in Medina.\n\nAfter reaching the mouth of the valley, Abbad noticed that his brother was tired and volunteered to keep watch for the first half of the night and allow him to rest. Since there appeared to be no imposing threats, Abbad stood up for prayer. While absorbed in recitation, a stranger stalked the outskirts of the valley in search of Muhammad and his followers. He was among those who had planned to attack Muhammad, but fled into the mountains.\n\nFrom a distance, the man saw the figure of Abbad and knew the Muslim force must be inside the valley. Silently he drew his bow, and fired an arrow which embedded itself in Abbad's flesh. Calmly, Abbad removed the arrow and went on with his recitation, still absorbed in his Salat. The attacker shot two more arrows, which also found their mark. Abbad pulled them out and finished his recitation. Weak and in pain, he stretched out his hand while still in prostration and shook his sleeping companion. Abbad continued the prayer to its end and then said: \"Get up and stand guard in my place. I have been wounded.\"\n\nAmmar stood up, and seeing them both, the attacker fled into the darkness. Ammar turned to Abbad, blood flowing from his wounds, and asked \"Why didn't you wake me when you were hit by the first arrow?\"\n\nAbbad replied \"I was reciting verses of the Qur'an which filled my soul with awe and I did not want to cut short the recitation. Muhammad had commanded me to commit this surah to memory. Death would have been dearer to me than that the recitation of this surah should be interrupted.\"\n\nAbbad was killed fighting the forces of Musailma at the battle of Yamamah in 632. Before the battle, he observed the lack of mutual confidence between the Muhajirin and Ansar, realized the campaign would fail unless they were separately regimented, and distinguished those who bore their responsibility and were steadfast in combat. When the battle commenced, Abbad ibn Bishr stood on a mound and shouted:\n\n\"O Ansar, distinguish yourselves among men. Destroy your scabbards. And do not forsake Islam.\"\n\nAbbad gathered about four hundred men from the Ansar and launched an offensive into the enemy ranks, forcing their retreat to the \"garden of death\", where Abbad ibn Bishr was mortally wounded. Although the battle was a victory for the Muslims, twelve hundred of their force were killed. So numerous were Abbad’s wounds, that he was hardly recognizable. Although he passed at a young age, Abbad contributed much to the strength of the early Muslim community, and his life and martyrdom continue to inspire followers of Islam the world over.\n\n"}
{"id": "20013870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013870", "title": "Abortive flower", "text": "Abortive flower\n\nAn abortive flower is a flower that has a stamen but an under developed, or no pistil. It falls without producing fruit or seeds, due to its inability to fructify. Flowers require both male and female organs to reproduce, and the pistils and ovary serve as female organs, while the stamens are considered male organs.\n\nIllustrative examples include \"Urginea nagarjunae\" and \"Trichilogaster acaciaelongifoliae\".\n\nPollinated flowers and fruits can abort selectively. It could be because of the order of pollination, the number of developing seeds, pollen source, or some combination of these. Flowers and fruits can also abort because of outside causes like insufficient light, unsuitable photo-period, high temperature, nutrient deficiency, ethylene, drought stress. \n\nThere is research to suggest that random selective abortions based on the timing of fertilization could increase the genetic quality of seeds. The age of the flower also has an effect on the percentage of abortion. The older the flower, the more likely it is to be aborting the fruit or pollen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1192110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192110", "title": "Abu 'Afak", "text": "Abu 'Afak\n\nAbu 'Afak (, died c. 624) was a Jewish poet who lived in the Hijaz region (today Saudi Arabia). Abu 'Afak did not convert to Islam and was vocal about his opposition to Muhammad. He became a significant political enemy of Muhammad.\n\nAs an elderly man, Abu 'Afak Arwan wrote a politically charged poem against Muhammad and his followers that is preserved in the Sira. Muhammad then allegedly called for Abu 'Afak's death, and Salim ibn Umayr killed him. The affair was recorded by Ibn Ishaq in \"Sirat Rasul Allah\" (The Life of the Prophet of God), the oldest biography of Muhammad.\n\nThe following is an excerpt from Alfred Guillaume's translation of Ibn Ishaq's prophetic biography, chapter \"Salim b. Umayr's expedition to kill Abu Afak\".Abu Afak was one of the B. Amr b. Auf of the B. Ubayda clan. He showed his disaffection when the apostle [Muhammad] killed al-Harith b. Suwayd b. Samit and said:\n\nThe apostle [Muhammad] said, \"Who will deal with this rascal for me?\" Whereupon Salim b. Umayr, brother of B. Amr b. Auf, one of the \"weepers\", went forth and killed him. Umama b. Muzayriya said concerning that:\n\nThe following is an excerpt from Rizwi Faizer’s translation of Waqidi’s military history, chapter “The Expedition to Kill Abu ‘Afak”.\n\nSa’id b. Muhammad related to us from ‘Umara b. Ghaziyya, and Abu Mus’ab related to us from Isma’il b. Mus’ab b. Isma’il b. Zayd b. Thabit from his elders, who said: “There was a sheikh of the Banu ‘Amr ibn ‘Awf called ‘Abu Afak. He was an old man who had reached one hundred and twenty years when the Prophet arrived in Medina. He provoked the enmity of the Prophet and did not enter Islam. When the Messenger of God went out to Badr and returned, and God granted him victory, Abu ‘Afak envited him and opposed him, saying:\n\n<poem>‘Long have I lived but never have I seen\nAn assembly or collection of people,\nmore minds that came to a commitment swiftly when called.\nA rider dispossessed them of their affairs,\nsplitting them into forbidden and permitted.\nIf it was kingship that you believed in,\nyou would have followed Tubba’.’</poem>\n\nSalim b. ‘Umayr said – and he was one of the weepers of the Banu Najjar – ‘I vowed that I would kill Abu Afak or die in the attempt. I waited for a heedless moment.’ Then, one summer’s night, as Abu Afak slept in the courtyard with the Banu ‘Amr b. ‘Awf, Salim b. ‘Umayr approached, and pressed the sword upon his liver until it entered his bed. The enemy of God screamed. Those among the people who heard his words returned to him. They entered his place and buried him. They said, ‘Who killed him? By God, if we learn who killed him, we will surely kill him for it.’ Al-Nahdiyya, a Muslim woman, said these verses about that.\n\n<poem>‘You lied about the religion of God and the man Ahmad.\nBy the life of he who produced you, miserable is what he produced.\nA Hanif gave you, at the end of the night, a thrust.\nAbu ‘Afak, take it inspite of your age.\nIndeed if I knew who killed you in the dead of night\nWhether man or Jinn, I would not say.’”</poem>\n\nMa’an b. ‘Umar related to me saying: “Ibn Ruqaysh informed me that Abu ‘Afak was killed in Shawwal, the twentieth month AH.”\n\nHowever, Al Waqidi was said by many Islamic Hadith scholars to be an unreliable source of information.\n\nAnother description of this story comes from The Major Classes by ibn Sa'd al-Baghdadi:\"Then occurred the \"sariyyah\" [raid] of Salim Ibn Umayr al-Amri against Abu Afak, the Jew, in [the month of] Shawwal in the beginning of the twentieth month from the hijra, of the Apostle of Allah. Abu Afak, was from Banu Amr Ibn Awf, and was an old man who had attained the age of one hundred and twenty years. He was a Jew, and used to instigate the people against the Apostle of Allah, and composed (satirical) verses [about Muhammad].\n\nSalim Ibn Umayr who was one of the great weepers and who had participated in Badr, said, \"I take a vow that I shall either kill Abu Afak or die before him. He waited for an opportunity until a hot night came, and Abu Afak slept in an open place. Salim Ibn Umayr knew it, so he placed the sword on his liver and pressed it till it reached his bed. The enemy of Allah screamed and the people who were his followers, rushed to him, took him to his house and interred him.\"\n\nIbn Sa'd gives a second account, which cites his sources.\n\nMuhammad ibn ‘Umar [Waqidi] reported from Sa’id ibn Muhammad az-Zuraqi from ‘Umara ibn Ghaziya that Abu Mus’ab Isma’il ibn Mus’ab ibn Isma’il ibn Zayd ibn Thabit related from his shaykhs that Abu ‘Afak was an old man of the Banu ‘Amr ibn Awf. He reached the age of one hundred and twenty and he heard about the Prophet but he did not enter Islam. Salim ibn ‘Umayr vowed to kill him and sought him until he killed him. That was at the command of the Prophet. Muhammad ibn ‘Umar [Waqidi] reported from Ma’n ibn ‘Umar from Ibn Ruqaysh of the Banu Asad ibn Khuzayma that Abu ‘Afak was killed in Shawwal at the beginning of the twentieth month of the Hijra [late March/early April 624].\n\nMany criticize this chain as it contains al-Waqidi, who has been regarded as \"weak\" by many Hadith scholars.\n"}
{"id": "31378544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31378544", "title": "Aecium", "text": "Aecium\n\nAecium (plural aecia) is a specialised reproductive structure found in some rusts and smuts which produces aeciospores. In some literature aecia are also referred to as \"cluster cups\".\n\nAn aecidium (plural aecidia) is an aecium in which the spores are always formed in chains and enclosed in a cup-shaped peridium.\nAll species in the genus \"Phragmidium\" have a caeoma which is a diffuse aecidium lacking a peridium.\n"}
{"id": "17509366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17509366", "title": "Alexander van Oudenaarden", "text": "Alexander van Oudenaarden\n\nAlexander van Oudenaarden (19 March 1970) is a Dutch biophysicist and systems biologist. He is a leading researcher in stem cell biology, specialising in single cell techniques. In 2012 he started as director of the Hubrecht Institute and was awarded two times an ERC Advanced Grant, in 2012 and in 2017. In 2014 he became a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW). He was awarded the Spinoza Prize in 2017.\n\nVan Oudenaarden was born 19 March 1970, in Zuidland, a small town in the Dutch province of South Holland. He studied at the Delft University of Technology, where he obtained an MSc degree in Materials Science and Engineering (\"cum laude\") and an MSc degree in Physics, both in 1993, and subsequently a PhD degree in Physics (\"cum laude\") in 1998 in experimental condensed matter physics, under the supervision of professor J.E. Mooij. He received the Andries Miedema Award (best doctoral research in the field of condensed matter physics in the Netherlands) for his thesis on \"Quantum vortices and quantum interference effects in circuits of small tunnel junctions\". In 1998, he moved to Stanford University, where he was a postdoctoral researcher in the departments of Biochemistry and of Microbiology & Immunology, working on force generation of polymerising actin filaments in the Theriot lab and \na postdoctoral researcher in the department of Chemistry, working on Micropatterning of supported phospholipid bi-layers in the Boxer lab. In 2000 he joined the department of Physics at MIT as an assistant professor, was tenured in 2004 and is now a full professor. In 2001 he received the NSF CAREER award, and was both an Alfred Sloan Research Fellow and the Keck Career Development Career Development Professor in Biomedical Engineering. In 2012 Alexander became the director of the Hubrecht Institute as the successor of Hans Clevers. In 2017 he received his second \"ERC Advanced Grant\", for his study titled \"a single-cell genomics approach integrating gene expression, lineage, and physical interactions\". He was awarded the Spinoza Prize in 2017.\n\nHe is married and has three children.\n\nDuring his time at MIT his lab started with parallel lines of research in actin dynamics\nand noise in gene networks, and then focused on stochasticity in gene networks biological networks as control systems, and the evolution of small networks.\n\nToday, Van Oudenaardens work at the Hubrecht Institute focuses on stochastic gene expression, developing new tools for quantifying gene expression in single cells and MicroRNAs \n\n"}
{"id": "3406613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406613", "title": "Allergan, Inc.", "text": "Allergan, Inc.\n\nAllergan, Inc. was an American global pharmaceutical company focused on eye care, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, breast enhancement, obesity intervention and urologics. Allergan, Inc. was formed in 1948, incorporated in 1950 and became a public company in 1970. It ceased operation in 2015 when it was acquired by Irish-based Activis plc (itself a 2013 U.S. tax inversion to Ireland), who then renamed the group as Allergan plc.\n\nThe company traces its roots back to 1948 and pharmacist Gavin S. Herbert, who in 1950 established Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Allergan focused on the discovery and development of novel formulations for specialty markets, as well as intimate collaboration with physicians and the scientific community. 1953 saw Allergan producing eye drops and formulating new products such as the first cortisone eye drop to treat allergic inflammation and the first ophthalmic steroid decongestant.\nAllergan became a publicly traded company in 1970 and was acquired by SmithKline Beckman for $259 million in 1980. After generating $756 million in revenue and $80 million in profit in 1988, Allergan was spun-off by SmithKline Beckman in 1989.\n\nIn July 2002, the Allergan ophthalmic surgical and contact lens care businesses were spun-off to create a new company, Advanced Medical Optics. In 2003, Allergan's flagship product, Botox, was the focus of a high-profile lawsuit and media scrutiny. In March 2006, Allergan acquired Inamed Corporation for $3 billion.\n\nOn March 1, 2013, the company acquired MAP Pharmaceuticals Inc., a development-stage company mainly researching the treatment of migraine and other oral drugs in Neurology for approximately $958 million. The principal products of this sub-company are under review with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In December 2013, the company sold its obesity intervention business to Apollo Endosurgery, Inc., for a cash payment of $75 million and a $15 million minority equity interest in Apollo Endosurgery.\n\nIn November 2014 Actavis, plc announced its intention to acquire Allergan, Inc., the manufacturer of Botox Completion of the deal would increase its market capitalization to $147 billion. On March 17, 2015, Actavis, plc completed the acquisition of Allergan, Inc. in a cash and equity transaction valued at approximately $70.5 billion, and was folded into that company. The combination created a $23 billion diversified global pharmaceutical company with commercial reach across 100 countries. In June 2015, Actavis, plc officially changed its name to Allergan, plc.\n\nIn June Allergan, Inc. announced it would acquire Kythera Biopharmaceuticals for around $2.1 billion.\n\nOn April 22, 2014, details were released by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and hedge fund CEO, Bill Ackman, about a $46 billion (CAD) offer presented to Allergan. Valeant proposed to exchange $48.30 in cash and 0.83 shares of Valeant per Allergan share. Allergan, Inc. stockholders would own 43 per cent of the combined company. This bid was rejected by Allergan as being too risky, claiming Valeant's business model of serial acquisitions and low organic growth being unsustainable. Soon after Valeant released a statement saying a new offer will be presented May 28, 2014, where it emerged that Valeant had increased their offer to $49.4 billion. On May 31 the offer was revised and increased to $53.3 billion. On June 18, Valeant began its tender offer for a hostile takeover of Allergan. In August 27, 2014, Valeant and Pershing Square Capital Management asked a Chancery Judge to set a trial for September 24, 2014 to decide on whether Valeant and Pershing had properly secured enough support from Allergan shareholders to force a meeting of investors to consider replacing a majority of the company’s directors. On the same day Allergan announced that they had set a December shareholder vote to decide whether the company should replace part of the board of directors. In the afternoon of August 27, \"Bloomberg\" reported that Valeant and Pershing Square had won their case with the Chancery Judge setting an October 6 date for the aforementioned trial. On November 17, 2014, Actavis, plc announced it would acquire Allergan in a white knight bid for approximately $66 billion, putting an end to Valeant's hostile takeover attempt.\n\nIn 2011, FDA reported issues in the investigation of safety of silicone gel-filled breast implants. However, the company announced later the reassurance to patients of the safety and exclusion of its drugs from the investigated breast implant devices, stating that all of its products are above safety standards around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "18553926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18553926", "title": "American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine", "text": "American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine\n\nThe American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine (AAHPM) is a professional organization for physicians specializing in Hospice and Palliative Medicine, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Membership is open to all health care providers committed to improving the care of patients with serious or life-threatening illnesses. AAHPM has more than 5,200 members; 82 percent are physicians, 12 percent are nurses or other health care providers and 6 percent are residents or students.\n\nAAHPM started a patient website to help educate the public on the importance of hospice and palliative care.\n\nAAHPM was founded in 1988, with 250 charter members, as the Academy of Hospice Physicians (The Academy). Josefina B. Magno, MD, president of the International Hospice Institute and Gerald Holman, MD, director of St. Anthony’s Hospice and Life Enrichment Center met to discuss the formation of The Academy.\n\nDuring the next few years, members worked to build the association by educating people on the importance of hospice care through newsletters and position statements. The Academy worked on publishing a quarterly newsletter and a physician self-study series. In 1994, The Academy was awarded a grant from the National Cancer Institute to develop a book series.\n\nThe American Board of Hospice and Palliative Medicine was incorporated by the Academy in May 1996. They offered their first certifying exam later that year. The Academy gained approval from the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), which allowed it to provide CME to physicians. The Academy also changed its name to the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine (AAHPM).\n\nBy the turn of the century, AAHPM’s membership grew, and it secured a seat in the American Medical Association (AMA) House of Delegates.\n\nAAHPM’s strong presence and position on highly controversial subjects has made the Academy a prominent voice in hospice and palliative care. In 2003, AAHPM was able to develop its infrastructure and establish the College of Palliative Care with a $1.2-million grant from Open Society Institute’s Project on Death in America.\n\nAAHPM tracks critical issues and provides members with the information, tools, and training required to be effective advocates for their patients and their practice. In recent years, AAHPM has promoted policies that would increase the number of palliative medicine specialists, expand support for research, and improve access to palliative care services for patients with serious illness and their families.\n\nThe Academy publishes a variety of resources for hospice and palliative care professionals, including: UNIPAC Self-Study Program: A Resource for Hospice and Palliative Care Professionals, Primer of Palliative Care, Hospice Medical Director Manual, and online practice tests: HPM PASS, HPM FAST and HMD PREP.\n\nAAHPM, together with the Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association (HPNA), sponsors an educational conference each year. The Annual Assembly provides disease updates and sessions on the latest advances in clinical research, cultural, ethical and legal, psychological, social, and spiritual aspects of care for physicians, nurses, social workers, pharmacists, and others who practice hospice and palliative care.\n\nAnnual Assembly Sites:\n\nAAHPM also offers educational courses during the year which focus on topics of interest to hospice and palliative care professionals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50789105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50789105", "title": "Andrew E. Faulkner", "text": "Andrew E. Faulkner\n\nAndrew Edward Faulkner was an American politician and businessman who served as a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1947 until his death in 1951.\n\nFaulkner was born on September 23, 1913 in Salem, Massachusetts. He attended grammar and high school in Beverly, Massachusetts. After serving in the United States Navy, Faulkner ran a filling station until 1948, when he started a fuel oil business.\n\nFaulkner served three years on the Beverly Board of Aldermen before serving terms in the Massachusetts House of Representatives.\n\nOn November 15, 1951, Faulkner used an alias to check into a low-rate rooming house in Scollay Square. He was given a room on the third floor and a few minutes later was observed opening the window, crawling out onto the fire escape and walking to the end of it. He then appeared to jump five feet across and ten feet below to another fire escape of an adjacent building. Faulkner held onto the fire escape for a moment before falling 35 feet to his death. The Medical Examiner ruled Faulkner's death as accidental, based on cuts and bruises on Faulkner's hands that showed he had tried to save himself. Police ruled out the theory of robbery (Faulkner was said to have collected $1,000 prior to his death, however police stated they were confident that the $279 found in his pockets was all the money he had in his position) and investigators instead believed that he had been feeling ill and had gone out on the fire escape to get some air before accidentally falling off.\n"}
{"id": "599674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599674", "title": "Antheridium", "text": "Antheridium\n\nAn antheridium is a haploid structure or organ producing and containing male gametes (called \"antherozoids\" or sperm). The plural form is antheridia, and a structure containing one or more antheridia is called an androecium. \"Androecium\" is also used as the collective term for the stamens of flowering plants.\n\nAntheridia are present in the gametophyte phase of cryptogams like bryophytes and ferns. Many algae and some fungi, for example ascomycetes and water moulds, also have antheridia during their reproductive stages. In gymnosperms and angiosperms, the male gametophytes have been reduced to pollen grains and in most of these the antheridia have been reduced to a single generative cell within the pollen grain. During pollination, this generative cell divides and gives rise to sperm cells.\n\nThe female counterpart to the antheridium in cryptogams is the archegonium, and in flowering plants is the gynoecium.\n\nAn antheridium typically consists of sterile cells and spermatogenous tissue. The sterile cells may form a central support structure or surround the spermatogenous tissue as a protective jacket. The spermatogenous cells give rise to spermatids via mitotic cell division. In some bryophytes, the antheridium is borne on an antheridiophore, a stalk-like structure that carries the antheridium at its apex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7401552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7401552", "title": "Bioastronautics", "text": "Bioastronautics\n\nBioastronautics is a specialty area of biological and astronautical research which encompasses numerous aspects of biological, behavioral, and medical concern governing humans and other living organisms in a space flight environment; and includes design of payloads, space habitats, and life support systems. In short, it spans the study and support of life in space.\n\nBioastronautics includes many similarities with its sister discipline astronautical hygiene; they both study the hazards that humans may encounter during a space flight. However, astronautical hygiene differs in many respects e.g. in this discipline, once a hazard is identified, the exposure risks are then assessed and the most effective measures determined to prevent or control exposure and thereby protect the health of the astronaut. Astronautical hygiene is an applied scientific discipline that requires knowledge and experience of many fields including bioastronautics, space medicine, ergonomics etc. The skills of astronautical hygiene are already being applied for example, to characterise moon dust and design the measures to mitigate exposure during lunar exploration, to develop accurate chemical monitoring techniques and use the results in the setting SMACs. \n\nOf particular interest from a biological perspective are the effects of reduced gravitational force felt by inhabitants of spacecraft. Often referred to as \"microgravity\", the lack of sedimentation, buoyancy, or convective flows in fluids results in a more quiescent cellular and intercellular environment primarily driven by chemical gradients. Certain functions of organisms are mediated by gravity, such as gravitropism in plant roots and negative gravitropism in plant stems, and without this stimulus growth patterns of organisms onboard spacecraft often diverge from their terrestrial counterparts. Additionally, metabolic energy normally expended in overcoming the force of gravity remains available for other functions. This may take the form of accelerated growth in organisms as diverse as worms like \"C. elegans\" to miniature parasitoid wasps such as \"Spangia endius\". It may also be used in the augmented production of secondary metabolites such as the vinca alkaloids Vincristine and Vinblastine in the rosy periwinkle (\"Catharanthus roseus\"), whereby space grown specimens often have higher concentrations of these constituents that on earth are present in only trace amounts.\n\nFrom an engineering perspective, facilitating the delivery and exchange of air, food, and water, and the processing of waste products is also challenging. The transition from expendable physicochemical methods to sustainable bioregenerative systems that function as a robust miniature ecosystem is another goal of bioastronautics in facilitating long duration space travel. Such systems are often termed Closed Ecological Life Support Systems (CELSS).\n\nFrom a medical perspective, long duration space flight also has physiological impacts on astronauts. Accelerated bone decalcification, similar to osteopenia and osteoporosis on Earth, is just one such condition. Study of these effects is useful not only in advancing methods for safe habitation of and travel through space, but also in uncovering ways to more effectively treat the related terrestrial ailments.\n\nNASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas maintains a Bioastronautics Library (map). The one-room facility provides a collection of textbooks, reference books, conference proceedings, and academic journals related to bioastronautics topics. Because the library is located within secure government property (not part of Space Center Houston, the official visitors center of JSC), it is not generally accessible to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53736832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53736832", "title": "Bonniface (MCC cricketer)", "text": "Bonniface (MCC cricketer)\n\nBonniface (first name, dates and places of birth and death unknown) was an English first-class cricketer active 1790 who played for Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC).\n"}
{"id": "50370911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50370911", "title": "Brutalization", "text": "Brutalization\n\nIn criminology, brutalization refers to a hypothesized cause-and-effect relationship between executions and an increase in the homicide rate. This hypothesis proposes this relationship occurs because executions diminish the public's respect for life. Such an effect represents the opposite of a deterrent effect. \nA 1980 study found that in New York, there were an average of two additional homicides in the month after an execution, consistent with a brutalization effect. A 1994 study found evidence of this effect in Oklahoma, but only with regards to stranger homicides, while a 1998 study found strong evidence to support the hypothesis for total homicides in Oklahoma.\nA 1978 study found no evidence to support the brutalization hypothesis. A 1994 study also found no evidence to support it with regards to overall homicides in Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "18608701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18608701", "title": "Charles-Eugène Panet", "text": "Charles-Eugène Panet\n\nCharles-Eugène Panet (November 27, 1829 – November 22, 1898), Liberal, representing Quebec. He was appointed on 27 March 1874 by Alexander Mackenzie. He served until his resignation on 4 February 1875. He’s the first member of the family Panet-Raymond. The family name of her mother was Raymond and his father was Panet.\n\nHe was born in Quebec on November 27, 1829. He was the son of The Hon. Philippe Panet, late Judge of the Court of Queen's Bench, Lower Canada. His mother, Luce Casgrain, was the daughter and co-heiress of Pierre Casgrain (1771-1828) J.P., Seigneur of La Bouteillerie. Panet was a nephew of politicians Louis Panet and Charles Panet. He was educated at the Quebec Seminary and at the Jesuit College in Georgetown, Quebec. He studied law in Quebec with his relation The Hon. Jean-Thomas Taschereau, late of the Supreme Court of Canada. He was called to the Bar of Lower Canada in 1854.\n\nHe was married three times and had sixteen children. The former Panet House, was built in Ottawa, Ontario by Colonel Charles-Eugène Panet, Deputy Minister of Militia and Defence, in 1876. In 1986, the Panet house became part of the King Edward Avenue Heritage Conservation District. The house is currently the Embassy of the Republic of Angola.\nHe practiced law for three years in Quebec (1854–1857). He was coroner for the City and District of Quebec for fourteen years. He was a Lieutenant-Colonel of the 9th Voltigeurs de Québec (1869–80). In 1886, he was gazetted a Colonel in the Canadian militia. In 1874 he was called to the Senate of Canada. In 1875, he resigned his seat in the Senate to accept the position of deputy minister of militia and defence, (1875–98). In 1888, he presented to Parliament a \"Report upon the suppression of the rebellion in the North-West Territories and matters in connection therewith\" Department of Militia and Defence.\n\nHe retained this position until shortly before his death at Ottawa on November 22, 1898.\n\nThe Panet House (1906) at the Royal Military College of Canada was named in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "5110579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5110579", "title": "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale", "text": "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale\n\nThe Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale (abbreviated CPSS) is a system used to diagnose a potential stroke in a pre-hospital setting. It tests three signs for abnormal findings which may indicate that the patient is having a stroke. If any one of the three tests shows abnormal findings, the patient may be having a stroke and should be transported to a hospital as soon as possible. The CPSS was derived from the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale developed in 1997 at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center for pre-hospital use.\n\n\nPatients with 1 of these 3 findings as a new event have a 72% probability of an ischemic stroke.\nIf all 3 findings are present the probability of an acute stroke is more than 85%.\n\n"}
{"id": "66393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66393", "title": "Clinical death", "text": "Clinical death\n\nClinical death is the medical term for cessation of blood circulation and breathing, the two necessary criteria to sustain human and many other organisms' lives. It occurs when the heart stops beating, a condition called cardiac arrest. The term is also sometimes used in resuscitation research.\n\nStopped blood circulation has historically proven irreversible in most cases. Prior to the invention of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), defibrillation, epinephrine injection, and other treatments in the 20th century, the absence of blood circulation (and vital functions related to blood circulation) was historically considered the official definition of death. With the advent of these strategies, cardiac arrest came to be called \"clinical death\" rather than simply \"death\", to reflect the possibility of post-arrest resuscitation.\n\nAt the onset of clinical death, consciousness is lost within several seconds. Measurable brain activity stops within 20 to 40 seconds. Irregular gasping may occur during this early time period, and is sometimes mistaken by rescuers as a sign that CPR is not necessary. During clinical death, all tissues and organs in the body steadily accumulate a type of injury called ischemic injury.\n\nMost tissues and organs of the body can survive clinical death for considerable periods. Blood circulation can be stopped in the entire body below the heart for at least 30 minutes, with injury to the spinal cord being a limiting factor. Detached limbs may be successfully reattached after 6 hours of no blood circulation at warm temperatures. Bone, tendon, and skin can survive as long as 8 to 12 hours.\n\nThe brain, however, appears to accumulate ischemic injury faster than any other organ. Without special treatment after circulation is restarted, full recovery of the brain after more than 3 minutes of clinical death at normal body temperature is rare. Usually brain damage or later brain death results after longer intervals of clinical death even if the heart is restarted and blood circulation is successfully restored. Brain injury is therefore the chief limiting factor for recovery from clinical death.\n\nAlthough loss of function is almost immediate, there is no specific duration of clinical death at which the non-functioning brain clearly dies. The most vulnerable cells in the brain, CA1 neurons of the hippocampus, are fatally injured by as little as 10 minutes without oxygen. However, the injured cells do not actually die until hours after resuscitation. This delayed death can be prevented \"in vitro\" by a simple drug treatment even after 20 minutes without oxygen. In other areas of the brain, viable human neurons have been recovered and grown in culture hours after clinical death. Brain failure after clinical death is now known to be due to a complex series of processes called reperfusion injury that occur \"after\" blood circulation has been restored, especially processes that interfere with blood circulation during the recovery period. Control of these processes is the subject of ongoing research.\n\nIn 1990, the laboratory of resuscitation pioneer Peter Safar discovered that reducing body temperature by three degrees Celsius after restarting blood circulation could double the time window of recovery from clinical death without brain damage from 5 minutes to 10 minutes. This induced hypothermia technique is beginning to be used in emergency medicine. The combination of mildly reducing body temperature, reducing blood cell concentration, and increasing blood pressure after resuscitation was found especially effective—allowing for recovery of dogs after 12 minutes of clinical death at normal body temperature with practically no brain injury. The addition of a drug treatment protocol has been reported to allow recovery of dogs after 16 minutes of clinical death at normal body temperature with no lasting brain injury. Cooling treatment alone has permitted recovery after 17 minutes of clinical death at normal temperature, but with brain injury.\n\nUnder laboratory conditions at normal body temperature, the longest period of clinical death of a cat (after complete circulatory arrest) survived with eventual return of brain function is one hour.\n\nReduced body temperature, or therapeutic hypothermia, during clinical death slows the rate of injury accumulation, and extends the time period during which clinical death can be survived. The decrease in the rate of injury can be approximated by the Q rule, which states that the rate of biochemical reactions decreases by a factor of two for every 10 °C reduction in temperature. As a result, humans can sometimes survive periods of clinical death exceeding one hour at temperatures below 20 °C. The prognosis is improved if clinical death is caused by hypothermia rather than occurring prior to it; in 1999, 29-year-old Swedish woman Anna Bågenholm spent 80 minutes trapped in ice and survived with a near full recovery from a 13.7 °C core body temperature. It is said in emergency medicine that \"nobody is dead until they are warm and dead.\" In animal studies, up to three hours of clinical death can be survived at temperatures near 0 °C.\n\nThe purpose of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) during cardiac arrest is ideally reversal of the clinically dead state by restoration of blood circulation and breathing. However, there is great variation in the effectiveness of CPR for this purpose. Blood pressure is very low during manual CPR, resulting in only a ten-minute average extension of survival. Yet there are cases of patients regaining consciousness during CPR while still in full cardiac arrest. In absence of cerebral function monitoring or frank return to consciousness, the neurological status of patients undergoing CPR is intrinsically uncertain. It is somewhere between the state of clinical death and a normal functioning state.\n\nPatients supported by methods that certainly maintain enough blood circulation and oxygenation for sustaining life during stopped heartbeat and breathing, such as cardiopulmonary bypass, are not customarily considered clinically dead. All parts of the body except the heart and lungs continue to function normally. Clinical death occurs only if machines providing sole circulatory support are turned off, leaving the patient in a state of stopped blood circulation.\n\nCertain surgeries for cerebral aneurysms or aortic arch defects require that blood circulation be stopped while repairs are performed. This deliberate temporary induction of clinical death is called circulatory arrest. It is typically performed by lowering body temperature to between 18 °C and 20 °C (64 and 68 °F) and stopping the heart and lungs. This state is called deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. At such low temperatures most patients can tolerate the clinically dead state for up to 30 minutes without incurring significant brain injury.\nLonger durations are possible at lower temperatures, but the usefulness of longer procedures has not been established yet.\n\nControlled clinical death has also been proposed as a treatment for exsanguinating trauma to create time for surgical repair.\n\nDeath was historically believed to be an event that coincided with the onset of clinical death. It is now understood that death is a series of physical events, not a single one, and determination of permanent death is dependent on other factors beyond simple cessation of breathing and heartbeat.\n\nClinical death that occurs unexpectedly is treated as a medical emergency. CPR is initiated. In a United States hospital, a Code Blue is declared and Advanced Cardiac Life Support procedures used to attempt to restart a normal heartbeat. This effort continues until either the heart is restarted, or a physician determines that continued efforts are useless and recovery is impossible. If this determination is made, the physician pronounces legal death and resuscitation efforts stop.\n\nIf clinical death is expected due to terminal illness or withdrawal of supportive care, often a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) or \"no code\" order is in place. This means that no resuscitation efforts are made, and a physician or nurse may pronounce legal death at the onset of clinical death.\n\nA patient with working heart and lungs who is determined to be brain dead can be pronounced legally dead without clinical death occurring. However, some courts have been reluctant to impose such a determination over the religious objections of family members, such as in the Jesse Koochin case. Similar issues were also raised by the case of Mordechai Dov Brody, but the child died before a court could resolve the matter.\nConversely, in the case of Marlise Muñoz, a hospital refused to remove a brain dead woman from life support machines for nearly two months, despite her husband's requests, because she was pregnant.\n"}
{"id": "15118499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15118499", "title": "David Kano", "text": "David Kano\n\nDavid Kano is a fictional character who regularly appeared during the first season of the science fiction television series \"\". He is of Jamaican origin and in his mid-thirties. He was played by actor Clifton Jones.\n\nAs part of the Moonbase Alpha senior staff and head of the Technical Section, David Kano was the resident computer expert on Moonbase. It was said to owe his expertise to his parents, both of whom were computer programmers.\n\nPrior to his position on Alpha, Kano was one of several volunteer test subjects on Earth to receive an experimental cybernetic implant that would enable the human brain to interface with a computer, taking advantage of its vast memory and calculating speed. Kano was the only subject not to be rendered permanently brain damaged by the experiment. He retains the access port from this programme in the right occipital area of his skull.\n\nKano had an almost symbiotic relationship with Alpha's Main Computer, which was curiously programmed with a female voice. He also referred to the computer as 'Computer' instead of \"the computer\" as though it were a name. He also habitually referred to Computer as 'she' or 'her'. Kano was invaluable to Commander Koenig as the person who had the ability to ask \"Computer\" the right questions and was privy to confidential computer output before everyone else. Kano's faith in computers in general was unshakable and he would tout human error over computer error every time.\n\nWell liked among the Alphans, Kano was an easygoing person who got along well with fellow key staff. While typically addressed as 'Kano', Paul Morrow was one of the few to address him by given name, indicating that the two probably knew each other for some time. While not socially inept, Kano preferred to spend most of his time with Computer, often playing chess with her. He could occasionally be seen playing chess with his fellow Alphans when seeking 'a real game' as he beat Computer every time.\n\nThe episode \"\" marks a notable instance where Kano lost his temper and harshly reprimands a junior staff member who accidentally spills coffee on him. Morrow also almost comes to blows with Kano over what he perceives as Kano's unnecessary harsh treatment of said junior staff member. However, everyone at this time is overly stressed due to Commander Koenig's being on the brink of death due to events in that episode. These harsh exchanges were promptly forgotten when Koenig recovered.\n\nKano first appeared in Series One's second episode \"\". The pilot episode has a similar Black character in the same position, Benjamin Ouma, played by actor Lon Satton. (An examination of early drafts of the script for \"\" indicated Ouma was the head of the Computer Section.) Kano replaced Ouma without any reason given and Ouma was never seen on the show again. Accounts from cast and crew indicate Satton did not get along with producers and fellow actors alike (especially Martin Landau) and was removed from the series.\n\nAlong with fellow regular cast members Prentis Hancock and Barry Morse, Clifton Jones did not return for the second series of the show. The absence of these characters was never accounted for in official canon. In the fan production \"\" which takes place 25 years later, Sandra Benes briefly recalls Professor Bergman, Paul and other characters no longer with them at that time, although it is not specifically said that either is necessarily deceased. But she did not mention Kano, which suggests either an overlook on Sandra's part or that Kano was still alive and well on Alpha but had taken up residence on Alpha off-screen in a different capacity. The fan-produced \"Moonbase Alpha Technical Journal\" would state that he, along with Paul Morrow, had died in an Eagle crash in the time between the two series.\n\nIn the officially licensed series of novels published by Powys Media, in particular the novel \"Born for Adversity\" by David McIntee, Kano's fate is revealed. He is killed during a further attempt to link his brain to Computer, resulting in a copy of his mind being preserved within Computer's memory. With the arrival of the Psychons on the Moon, and with them an incarnation of the biological computer Psyche, Kano is transferred to Psyche and becomes one with it. He departs with the Psychons and is presumably still alive at the time of Message for Moonbase Alpha.\n\nIn reality, he was not rehired by the production as American producer Fred Freiberger felt that the Year One supporting cast lacked character definition and had garnered no fan support.\n\n"}
{"id": "3403523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403523", "title": "Death of Molly Bish", "text": "Death of Molly Bish\n\nMolly Anne Bish (August 2, 1983 – June 27, 2000) was a sixteen-year-old American girl from rural Worcester County, Massachusetts, who disappeared while working as a lifeguard in her hometown of Warren, Massachusetts. Her remains were found three years later in neighboring Hampden County after what became the largest search in the state's history.\n\nIn the summer of 2000, 16-year-old Molly Bish began working as a lifeguard at Comins Pond in Warren, Massachusetts. On June 26, the day before Molly's disappearance, her mother, Magi, saw a mustached man in a white car parked in the lot of the beach where Molly's lifeguard post was located. Although he seemed suspicious at the time, she afforded him no further thought until after Molly's disappearance. On June 27, Magi drove Molly to Comins Pond and dropped her off near the lifeguard station. Magi reportedly saw no sign of the stranger from the previous day or his white sedan. However, another witness reported that he saw a man matching the stranger's description in the pond's parking lot just minutes before Molly arrived. A local worker also reported that he saw a similar car parked at a cemetery connected to the pond by a path. Magi Bish was the last known person to see Molly before her disappearance. Several hours later, police contacted Molly's parents, informing them that no lifeguard had been on duty all day and that Molly's belongings had been left unattended at her station.\n\nAn extensive search was immediately launched. It was to become the largest and most expensive search for a missing person ever undertaken in Massachusetts. Her case was profiled on the numerous American television shows \"Disappeared\", \"America's Most Wanted\", \"Unsolved Mysteries\", and \"48 Hours\". On June 9, 2003, Molly's body was found five miles from her family home. A hunter had seen a blue bathing suit in the woods on Whiskey Hill in Palmer, in late fall 2002. In May 2003, he mentioned this to Tim McGuigan, who contacted police. An intense search of the area soon located Molly's body.\n\nIn 2004 Magi and John Bish founded The Molly Bish Center and Foundation in collaboration with Anna Maria College.\n\nIn 2005, a Connecticut resident charged with attempted kidnapping in Connecticut was briefly under investigation in connection with the case.\n\nIn 2009, a new suspect was investigated. Rodney Stanger, a Florida resident convicted of murdering his girlfriend, had lived in Southbridge, Massachusetts – a few miles from the town of Warren – for more than 20 years. Rodney moved to Florida a year after the Bish murder. Following the murder of Crystal Morrison, Stanger's girlfriend of 20 years, Crystal's sister alerted the Massachusetts authorities. Stanger was known to have access to a white car similar to the one seen the day before Bish's disappearance. He was also known to fish in Comins Pond and hunt in the woods where Bish's body was found. In addition, Stanger closely matched the description provided by Magi Bish of the man seen in the white sedan the day before Molly's disappearance. Stanger has not been charged in her case.\n\nIn 2009, Stanger was investigated for the Bish murder. Police also questioned him in connection with the 1993 murder of Holly Piirainen in Southbridge. Bish and Piirainen were the same age, and Bish had written a letter of hope to Piirainen's parents in 1993. Stanger was not charged in this case. In 2012, forensic evidence led authorities to name David Pouliot — who died in 2003 — as a person of interest in the Piirainen case.\n\nIn November 2011, Gerald Battistoni, a.k.a. Confidential Informant #62 for the Eastern Hampden County Narcotic Task Force, was named as a suspect in Bish's death by private detective Dan Malley of Massachusetts. Battistoni served time in prison for repeatedly raping a teenage girl in the early 1990s. He attempted suicide in prison after newspaper articles identified him as a potential suspect in Bish and Piirainen's deaths. Battistoni, who had a criminal record dating back to 1980, had been in the area where Molly's body was found and resembles a composite sketch of the man Magi saw in the parking lot on the day before Molly disappeared.\n\nAfter Gerald Battistoni was named as a suspect, Private Detective Dan Malley and the Bish family asked for DNA testing to be done. Massachusetts state police sent the DNA evidence to Texas.\n\nGerald Battistoni died at Lemuel Shattuck Hospital in Jamaica Plain in November 2014.\n\nThere have been no arrests in the case .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179206", "title": "Disembowelment", "text": "Disembowelment\n\nDisembowelment or evisceration is the removal of some or all of the organs of the gastrointestinal tract (the bowels, or viscera), usually through a horizontal incision made across the abdominal area. Disembowelment may result from an accident but has also been used as a method of torture and execution. In such practices, disembowelment may be accompanied by other forms of torture, or the removal of other vital organs.\n\nIf a living creature is disemboweled, it is invariably fatal without major medical intervention. Historically, disembowelment has been used as a severe form of capital punishment. If the intestinal tract alone is removed, death follows after several hours of gruesome pain. The victim will often be fully conscious while the torture is performed if the vital organs aren't damaged, and will be able to see their intestine being removed, but will eventually lose consciousness due to blood loss. However, in some forms of intentional disembowelment, decapitation or the removal of the heart and lungs would hasten the victim's death.\n\nIn Japan, disembowelment played a central part as a method of execution or the ritualized suicide of a samurai. In killing themselves by this method, they were deemed to be free from the dishonor resulting from their crimes. The most common form of disembowelment was referred to in Japanese as \"seppuku\" (or, colloquially, \"hara-kiri\"), literally \"stomach cutting,\" involving two cuts across the abdomen, sometimes followed by pulling out one's own viscera. The act of decapitation by a second (\"kaishaku-nin\") was added to this ritual suicide in later times in order to shorten the suffering of the samurai or leader, an attempt at rendering the ritual more humane. Even later the knife was just a simple formality and the swordsman would decapitate before the subject could reach for it. The commission of a crime or dishonorable act was only one of many reasons for the performance of seppuku; others included the atonement of cowardice, as a means of apology, or following the loss of a battle or the surrender of a castle.\n\nVarious accounts have asserted that during the Vietnam War, members of the Viet Cong sometimes made calculated use of disembowelment as a means of psychological warfare, to coerce and intimidate rural peasants. Peer De Silva, former head of the Saigon department of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), wrote that from as early as 1963, Viet Cong units were using disembowelment and other methods of mutilation as psychological warfare. The extent, however, to which this punishment was perpetrated may be impossible to gauge and while detailed accounts survive regarding how civilians were disemboweled by Viet Cong, the use of this torture appears to have been quite arbitrary and there is no record that such actions were sanctioned by the North Vietnamese government in Hanoi. Disembowelment and other methods of intimidation and torture were intended to frighten civilian peasants at a local level into cooperating with the Viet Cong or discourage them from cooperating with the South Vietnamese Army or its allies.\n\nIn early 1941, during the Bucharest pogrom in which 125 Jewish civilians were killed, multiple cases of torture including disembowelment were recorded.\n\nOn 10 July 1584, Balthasar Gérard shot and killed William of Orange, who had advocated for Dutch independence from the King of Spain. The assassin was interrogated and condemned to death almost immediately. On 14 July, after suffering various tortures during each of the five days since the assassination, Gérard was disemboweled and dismembered while still alive, after which his heart was torn out and then he was beheaded by his Dutch executioners.\n\nChristian tradition states that Erasmus of Formiae, also known as Saint Elmo, was finally executed by disembowelment in about A.D. 303, after he had suffered extreme forms of torture during the persecutions of Emperor Diocletian and Maximian.\n\nIn England, the punishment of being \"hanged, drawn and quartered\" was typically used for men convicted of high treason. This referred to the practice of dragging a man by a hurdle (similar to a fence) through the streets, removing him from the hurdle and (1) hanging him from the neck (but removing him before death), (2) drawing (i.e. disembowelling) him slowly on a wooden block by slitting open his abdomen, removing his entrails and his other organs (which were frequently thrown on a fire), and then decapitating him and (3) quartering, i.e. dividing the body into four pieces. The man's head and quarters would often be parboiled and displayed as a warning to others. As part of the disembowelment, the man was also typically emasculated and his genitals and entrails would be burned.\n\nWilliam Harrington is an example of someone tortured on the rack, hanged until not quite dead, then subjected to disembowelment.\n\nFrom the 15th century, ordinances are retained that threaten with a terrible punishment for those who stripped off the bark of a standing tree in the common woods. A typical wording is found in the 1401 ordinance from Oberursel:\n\nJacob Grimm observes that no case of the punishment being carried out has been found in records from that period (15th century), but 300 to 500 years earlier, the Western Slavic tribes like the Wends are said to have revenged themselves upon Christians by binding the guts to an erect pole and driving them around until the person was fully eviscerated. In the 13th century, members of the now extinct Baltic ethnic group of Old Prussians in one of the battles against the Teutonic Knights, are said to have captured one such knight in 1248, and made to undergo this punishment.\n\nNezahualcoyotl, a 15th-century Acolhuan ruler of Texcoco, a member of the Aztec Triple Alliance (now Mexico), promulgated a law code that was partially preserved. Those who had engaged in the passive role of homosexual anal intercourse had their intestines pulled out, then their bodies were filled with ash, and finally, were burnt. The active or penetrating partner was simply suffocated in a heap of ash.\n\nThe Japanese tradition of \"seppuku\" is a well known example of highly ritualized suicide, within a wider cultural world of norms and symbolism. However, reported examples of suicides exist, in which a person performed disembowelment on himself or herself, without any ambient culture of approved, or expected, suicide.\n\nThe Spartan king Cleomenes I is reported, in a fit of madness, to have slit his stomach open, and ripped his own bowels out.\n\nRoman statesman Cato the Younger committed suicide in Utica, after his side lost to Caesar, by plunging a knife in his own gut, in the dead of night. According to Plutarch, Cato's son heard the commotion from a nearby room, and called a doctor who stitched the wound close; after his son and the doctor left, Cato tore the stitching open with his hand and died. On account of his tragic, highly symbolic suicide, Cato is often termed \"Uticensis\" (\"of Utica\"), in order to differentiate him from his homonymous ancestor, Cato \"the Elder\" or \"the Censor\".\n\nIn 1593, a suicide occurred in Wimpfen. A young, pregnant woman, who had become a widow a few weeks before, was lying in her bed. She took a large knife, opened her belly in a cross, and threw out the fetus, her own intestines, and dug out her spleen and flung that out as well. She lived for 10 hours after the act, and when the priests sought to bring her a final consolation and blessing, she said it would all be in vain, because she was a daughter of the devil, and was beyond any sort of redemption. Then, she died, was put in a sack and thrown in the river. She was affluent, so it was clear that poverty had not driven her to this act.\n\nIn 1617, a merchant in the municipality Grossglockau slit up his abdomen so that the intestines fell out; he then pulled out his stomach and threw it on the bed. The chronicler notes he lived long enough to regret his action.\n\nWhen a portion of the intestinal tract is forcefully pulled from or expelled from the body through the anus, it is referred to as \"transanal evisceration\". Following the first report of transanal small intestine evisceration by Brodie in 1827, more than 70 cases have been reported to date, the majority occurring spontaneously in elderly individuals. Straining, chronic constipation, and rectal ulcerations predispose to spontaneous perforation in elderly individuals. Cases of transanal evisceration of children whilst sitting over uncovered swimming pool drains have been reported; notable cases include Valerie Lakey (1993) and Abigail Taylor (2007). In Taylor's case, the suction dislodged and damaged her liver and pancreas; several meters of her small intestine were forcefully pulled through her anus. In both these cases, the victims were left with short bowel syndrome and required feeding by total parenteral nutrition. After multiple operations, Taylor later died from transplant-related cancer. \n\nA person, usually a child, can suffer a similar injury if a heavy weight is applied directly over the abdomen. Large intestine (Rectosigmoid) rupture with transanal evisceration has been reported from blunt abdominal trauma and suction injuries. A direct blow or impingement of intestine between the vertebrae and anterior abdominal wall results in sudden increase in the intra-abdominal or intraluminal pressure of the intestine and rupture. The downward pressure forces a portion of the intestine to burst from the anus.\n\nThe short story \"Guts\" from the book \"Haunted\" by Chuck Palahniuk is based on the concept of transanal evisceration.\n\nIn Japanese folklore, it was believed that malicious \"Kappa\"water-goblins that inhabited ponds and riversmight thrust a hand into the anus of a human swimmer, seeking a mythical sphere called a \"shirikodama\".\n\nIn American Horror Story: Roanoke (2016), Cricket is disemboweled by The Butcher (Thomyson White)\n\nIn the video game , if the character Arcade Gannon is sold into slavery, during the ending slideshow he narrates how, during an unguarded moment, he used a medical scalpel to disembowel himself.\n\nThe process of embalming sometimes includes removing the internal organs. Mummification, especially as practised by the ancient Egyptians, entailed the removal of the internal organs prior to the preservation of the remainder of the body. The organs removed were embalmed, stored in canopic jars and then placed in the tomb with the body.\n\nJames Cook, on his second voyage, noted an embalming custom on some of the Pacific islands his crew visited, a custom utilizing transanal evisceration:\n\n"}
{"id": "16502498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16502498", "title": "Douglas C. Aagard", "text": "Douglas C. Aagard\n\nDouglas C. Aagard is an American politician from Utah. A Republican, he was a member of the Utah State House, representing the state's 15th house district in Kaysville until his retirement in 2011. Prior to retiring, Aagard served as House majority leader following the resignation of Kevin Garn \n\nAagard received his bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University. He has an associate degree from Snow College and an MBA from Westminster College (Utah).\n\nAagard spent much of his career as a mortgage banker.\n"}
{"id": "51287789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51287789", "title": "Fish School Search", "text": "Fish School Search\n\nFish School Search (FSS), proposed by Bastos Filho and Lima Neto in 2007 is, in its basic version, an unimodal optimization algorithm inspired on the collective behavior of fish schools. The mechanisms of feeding and coordinated movement were used as inspiration to create the search operators. The core idea is to make the fishes “swim” toward the positive gradient in order to “eat” and “gain weight”. Collectively, the heavier fishes are more influent in the search process as a whole, what makes the barycenter of the fish school moves toward better places in the search space over the iterations.\n\nThe FSS uses the following principles: \n\nFSS is a population based search algorithm inspired in the behavior of swimming fishes that expand and contract while looking for food. Each fish formula_1-dimensional location represents a possible solution for the optimization problem. The algorithm makes use of weights for all the fishes which represents cummulative account on how successful has been the search for each fish in the school. FSS is composed of the feeding and movement operators, the latter being divided into three sub-components, which are:\n\nEvery fish in the school performs a local search looking for promising regions in the search space. It is done as represented below:\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 and formula_4 represent the position of the fish formula_5 before and after the individual movement operator, respectively. formula_6 is a uniformly distributed random number varying from -1 up to 1 and formula_7 is a parameter that defines the maximum displacement for this movement. The new position formula_4 is only accepted if the fitness of the fish improves with the position change. If it is not the case, the fish remains in the same position and formula_9.\n\nAn average of the individual movements is calculated based on the following:\n\nformula_10\n\nThe vector formula_11 represents the weighted average of the displacements of each fish. It means that the fishes that experienced a higher improvement will attract fishes into its position.\nAfter the vector formula_11 computation, every fish will be encouraged to move according to:\n\nformula_13\n\nThis operator is used in order to regulate the exploration/exploitation ability of the school during the search process. First of all, the barycenter formula_14 of the school is calculated based on the position formula_15 and the weight formula_16 of each fish:\n\nformula_17\n\nand then, if the total school weight formula_18 has increased from the last to the current iteration, the fishes are attracted to the barycenter according to equation A. If the total school weight has not improved, the fishes are spread away from the barycenter according to equation B:\n\nEq. A:\n\nformula_19\n\nEq. B:\n\nformula_20\n\nwhere formula_21 defines the size of the maximum displacement performed with the use of this operator. formula_22 is the euclidean distance between the fish formula_5 position and the school barycenter. formula_24 is a uniformly distributed random number varying from 0 up to 1.\nBesides the movement operators, it was also defined a feeding operator used in order to update the weights of every fish according to:\n\nformula_25\n\nwhere formula_26 is the weight parameter for fish formula_5, formula_28 is the fitness variation between the last and the new position, and formula_29 represents the maximum absolute value of the fitness variation among all the fishes in the school.\nformula_30 is only allowed to vary from 1 up to formula_31, which is a user defined attribute. The weights of all fishes are initialized with the value formula_31.\n\n\nThe parameters formula_7 and formula_21 decay linearly according to:\n\nformula_35\n\nand similarly:\n\nformula_36\n\nwhere formula_37 and formula_38 are user defined initial values for formula_7 and formula_21, respectively. formula_41 is the maximum number of iterations allowed in the search process.\n\nThis version excels for multimodal hyper-dimensional functions. It includes modifications in the previous operators: Feeding and Swimming, as well as new: Memory and Partition operators. The latter two were introduced to account for the partition of the main school into subgroups. Some changes were also included in the stop conditions that now also have to consider subswarms.\n\nwFSS is a weight based niching version of FSS intended to produce multiple solutions. The niching strategy is based on a new operator called link formator. This operator is used to define leaders for the fishes in order to form sub-schools.\n\nIn the original version of the algorithm, the individual movement component is only allowed to move a fish if it improves the fitness. However, in a very smooth search space, there would be many moving trials with no success and the algorithm could fail to converge.\nTo solve these issues, was introduced a parameter X for which 0 <= X <= 1 in the individual component of the movement. X decays exponentially along with the iterations and measures a probability for a worsening allowance for each fish. It means that, every time a fish tries to move to a position that does not improve its fitness, a random number is chosen and if it is smaller than X the movement is allowed.\n\nThe bFSS intended to cope with premature convergence. Proposing the use of a binary encoding scheme for the internal mechanisms of the fish school search. It combined the FSS with fuzzy modeling in a wrapper approach for Feature Selection.\n\nIn the MOFSS the operators are adapted to solve multi-objective problems. The algorithm deploys an External Archive to store the best non-dominated solutions found during the search process. This approach has been extensively used for different bio-inspired multiobjective optimizers. Furthermore, the solutions within the External Archive are used to guide the fish movements in the proposal version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412285", "title": "Fitness function", "text": "Fitness function\n\nA fitness function is a particular type of objective function that is used to summarise, as a single figure of merit, how close a given design solution is to achieving the set aims. Fitness functions are used in genetic programming and genetic algorithms to guide simulations towards optimal design solutions.\n\nIn particular, in the fields of genetic programming and genetic algorithms, each design solution is commonly represented as a string of numbers (referred to as a chromosome). After each round of testing, or simulation, the idea is to delete the \"n\" worst design solutions, and to breed \"n\" new ones from the best design solutions. Each design solution, therefore, needs to be awarded a figure of merit, to indicate how close it came to meeting the overall specification, and this is generated by applying the fitness function to the test, or simulation, results obtained from that solution.\n\nThe reason that genetic algorithms cannot be considered to be a lazy way of performing design work is precisely because of the effort involved in designing a workable fitness function. Even though it is no longer the human designer, but the computer which comes up with the final design, it is still the human designer who has to design the fitness function. If this is designed badly, the algorithm will either converge on an inappropriate solution, or will have difficulty converging at all.\n\nThe fitness function must not only correlate closely with the designer's goal, it must also be computed quickly. Speed of execution is very important, as a typical genetic algorithm must be iterated many times in order to produce a usable result for a non-trivial problem.\n\nFitness approximation may be appropriate, especially in the following cases: \n\nTwo main classes of fitness functions exist: one where the fitness function does not change, as in optimizing a fixed function or testing with a fixed set of test cases; and one where the fitness function is mutable, as in niche differentiation or co-evolving the set of test cases.\n\nAnother way of looking at fitness functions is in terms of a fitness landscape, which shows the fitness for each possible chromosome.\n\nDefinition of the fitness function is not straightforward in many cases and often is performed iteratively if the fittest solutions produced by genetic algorithms are not what is desired. Interactive genetic algorithms address this difficulty by outsourcing evaluation to external agents (normally humans).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5847561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5847561", "title": "Glossary of spirituality terms", "text": "Glossary of spirituality terms\n\nThis is a glossary of spirituality-related terms. Spirituality is closely linked to religion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41931097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41931097", "title": "Hippocampal replay", "text": "Hippocampal replay\n\nHippocampal replay is a phenomenon observed in rats, mice, cats, rabbits, songbirds and monkeys.\nDuring sleep or awake rest, replay refers to the re-occurrence of a sequence of cell activations that also occurred during activity, but the replay has a much faster time scale. It may be in the same order, or in reverse. Cases were also found where a sequence of activations occurs before the actual activity, but it is still the same sequence. This is called preplay.\n\nThe phenomenon has mostly been observed in the hippocampus, a brain region associated with memory and spatial navigation. Specifically, the cells that exhibit this behavior are place cells, characterized by reliably increasing their activity when the animal is in a certain location in space. During navigation, the place cells fire in a sequence according to the path of the animal. In a replay instance, the cells are activated as if in response to the same spatial path, but at a much faster rate than the animal actually moved in.\n\nPlace cell activity was already well established when the first study explored this phenomenon in 1989. They showed that neural activity of single place cells during sleep resembled the activity during the awake state. This activity was greater than that of other cells and this study was only the first step towards understanding replay. Subsequent studies showed that large groups of cells also demonstrated this type of increased activity during sleep. In addition, it was discovered that the order of activity of place cells was also replicated during sleep. Firing sequences of three and more neurons observed in the hippocampus during locomotion were shown to recur selectively during subsequent slow-wave sleep more likely than during the preceding sleep, and the sequence replay was compressed during high frequency oscillations. These high frequency field oscillations called ripples were observed in the sleep state and later shown to play a causal role in memory consolidation.\n\nThe next step was the discovery of replay during the awake state. In 1999, ten years after the initial discovery, neural recordings in the awake state were also shown to have replay activity. It is considerably more difficult to detect this activity in the awake state and several methods including Bayesian decoding have been used to quantify replay events that occur during short wave ripples. Recent advances include finding that replay can occur in reverse and that it has also been found to occur in different environments. The role of replay in memory consolidation in these different conditions and environments is still being explored and several theories attempt to answer this question.\n\nReplay can occur in several different behavioral, physiological, and environmental conditions. The first distinction between awake and sleep states may represent different roles in memory consolidation. In the sleep state, the ripple events and place cell activity similar to that of the activity in the environment define the replay events. In the sleep state, there is also a distinction between REM (rapid eye movement) and SWS (slow wave sleep) which has implications for replay events. During SWS the place cells fire in a sequential order indicating replay and possibly indicate memory consolidation. However, during REM sleep where dreams occur in humans, replay events also occurred suggesting a possible role for place cells in dreams.\n\nIn the awake state the same activity occurs, however it is more difficult to detect and the animal must be in a resting state. Lastly, there are many environments for replay events in the awake animal. The length of the track can be short or long and still be replayed by a population of place cells. In addition, replay of a single environment can occur when the animal is in that environment or in different environments. This may show that consolidation of memory is a persistent process that may occur in several different types of environments and behavioral conditions. The robustness of the replay events indicates the importance of this process.\n\nAs mentioned above, the sequential activation of hippocampal place cells according to their place fields may occur during rest periods before the animal is actually traversing the activated path, even if the animal has never experienced it before. This suggests that hippocampal activation during rest may have a function not only in memory consolidation and retrieval, but also in planning: it contributes to the organization of the network for improving the encoding of future events.\n\nSensory stimuli can induce replay events or enhance the replay: in the awake state, replay often begins from the current location and continue either forward or backward in time, and nearby locations are more likely to be the place fields of neurons exhibiting replay than far away locations. This is like cued memory retrieval, where a sensory input triggers retrieval of similar or relevant memories. The cue may even trigger a replay in a different environment, if the place cells cued represent a location in a different environment in addition to the current location of the animal.\n\nSeveral studies are beginning to understand that replay may not only occur in the hippocampus. After learning, similar replay events occurred in both the thalamus and cortex. In addition, the visual cortex showed population activity that was both coordinated into discrete time regions and that it occurred simultaneously with activity in the hippocampus. Concurrent re-activation in the hippocampus and cortex may demonstrate that memory consolidation requires cortical input/output to maintain a memory. This hypothesis fits well with the idea that the cortex plays an integral role in memory retrieval after consolidation occurs. Therefore, hippocampal replay may play the role of information transfer between the hippocampus and cortex, yet this idea requires further verification.\n\nHippocampal replay in the awake state has been shown to correlate with performance in navigation tasks after the replay event. This suggest that replay plays a role in consolidation of memories related to spatial location, although a clear causal relationship between replay and memory consolidation is still unproven. Furthermore, replay also seems to be related to memory retrieval: it is activated by cues that also trigger memory retrieval, and in situations that require it, such as planning a trajectory based on the consequences of past choices. This relationship is also still only correlative, but there are studies showing evidence for the necessity of replay in successful memory retrieval.\n\nReplay is likely to participate in both the consolidation of memories and in building a cognitive map.\n\nIn studies done to monitor the patterns of the hippocampal replay of events happening in the minds of the rats, it was discovered that they rely heavily on long term re-playable memories for their daily lives. To determine if the animals could really retain the memories scientists set up a series of episodic events (i.e. a series of tunnels, a maze, a track full of twists and turns) to visualize the neuron activity as the rat completes its round around the new surroundings. The chemogenetic activating drug clozapine N-oxide (CNO), but not vehicle, reversibly impairs episodic memory replay in rats previously injected bilaterally in the hippocampus with a recombinant viral vector containing an inhibitory designer receptor exclusively activated by a designer drug (DREADD; AAV8-hSyn-hM4Di-mCherry). By contrast, two non-episodic memory assessments are unaffected by CNO, showing selectivity of this hippocampal-dependent impairment.\n"}
{"id": "86735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86735", "title": "Héctor Camacho", "text": "Héctor Camacho\n\nHéctor Luís Camacho Matías (May 24, 1962 – November 24, 2012), commonly known by his nickname \"Macho\" Camacho, was a Puerto Rican professional boxer and entertainer. Known for his quickness in the ring and flamboyant style, Camacho competed professionally from 1980 to 2010, and was a three-weight world champion. He held the WBC super featherweight title from 1983 to 1984, the WBC lightweight title from 1985 to 1987, and the WBO junior welterweight title twice between 1989 and 1992.\n\nIn a storied amateur career, Camacho won three New York Golden Gloves tournaments, beginning with the Sub-Novice 112 lbs championship in 1978. During his professional career, Camacho had many notable fights against some of the biggest names in boxing, defeating Roberto Durán twice late in Duran's career, and knocking out Sugar Ray Leonard to send him into permanent retirement. He also fought Julio César Chávez, Félix Trinidad, and Oscar De La Hoya, among others.\n\nDuring his later years, Camacho expanded his popular role and appeared on a variety of Spanish-language reality television shows including Univision's' dancing show \"Mira Quien Baila\" and a weekly segment on the popular show \"El Gordo y La Flaca\", named \"Macho News\". However, he also had much-publicized troubles with drug abuse and criminal charges. In 2005, Camacho was arrested for burglary, a charge to which he would later plead guilty. In 2011 he was shot at three times by would-be carjackers in San Juan, but was uninjured. In late 2012, Camacho was awaiting trial in Florida on charges of physical abuse of one of his sons.\n\nOn November 20, 2012, Camacho was shot and seriously wounded while sitting in a car outside a bar in his native Bayamón; the driver, a childhood friend, was killed in the shooting. Camacho died four days later; after he was declared clinically brain dead, his mother requested the doctors remove him from life support. After lying in state for two days in Santurce, Camacho's remains were transported to New York for burial at request of his mother.\n\nCamacho was born in Bayamón, Puerto Rico, to Héctor Luis Camacho Sr. and his wife María Matías. He was the youngest of five children, which included a brother Felix and sisters Raquel, Estrella, and Esperanza. When he was three, his parents separated, and his mother took the children with her to New York City. They lived in the James Weldon Johnson housing project in Spanish Harlem. Camacho attended local schools and ran into trouble as a teen, getting into street fights and landing in jail at fifteen. Pat Flannery, a language teacher in high school, helped the youth, teaching him to read and \"acting like a father figure\". When Camacho learned boxing and karate as a teenager, Flannery guided him to the Golden Gloves competitions. Demonstrating talent as a boxer, Camacho chose that sport as a career.\n\nAs an amateur, Camacho won three New York Golden Gloves Championships. Camacho won the 1978 112 lb Sub-Novice Championship, 1979 118 lb Open Championship, and 1980 119 lb Open Championship. In 1979 Camacho defeated Paul DeVorce of the Yonkers Police Athletic League in the finals to win the title, and, in 1980, Camacho defeated Tyrone Jackson in the finals to win the Championship. \n\nCamacho's nickname of \"Macho\" has been explained in various ways. According to his father, he gave him the nickname because he was his youngest son. According to the \"New York Times\", his mentor Pat Flannery is the one who gave him the nickname during his teens. According to Camacho himself, the nickname came as a result of American co-workers at a factory who couldn't pronounce his last name.\n\nAfter a stellar amateur career, Camacho began a quick rise through the professional rankings, first in the featherweight and then in the junior-lightweight division. He was so confident that he claimed he could beat world featherweight champions Salvador Sánchez and Eusebio Pedroza. However, Sánchez died while Camacho was still coming up in the ranks. In the junior-lightweight division, he defeated the top contenders Irleis \"Cubanito\" Perez, Melvin Paul, John Montes, and Refugio Rojas.\n\nWhen the World Junior Lightweight champion, Bobby Chacón, refused to go to Puerto Rico to defend his title against Camacho, the World Boxing Council (WBC) declared the world championship vacant. Rafael Limón, who had been defeated and lost the championship to Chacon, fought him for the vacant title. It was the first time Camacho was in a ring with a former world champion; he scored knockdowns on Limón in the first and third rounds before the referee stopped the fight in the fifth round.\n\nCamacho also fought his first defense in San Juan, where he met Rafael Solis, a fellow Puerto Rican. Camacho got tested in this fight for the first time, and was shaken in round three by a Solis uppercut. He knocked out Solis with a right to the chin in round five, and retained the title.\n\nMoving up to lightweight, Camacho won the United States Boxing Association title against Roque Montoya with a twelve-round decision. His victory in the next fight, broadcast on Home Box Office (HBO), made him a two-time world champion. Camacho beat the Mexican defending world champion, José Luis Ramírez in Las Vegas to win the WBC world Lightweight championship. Camacho dropped Ramirez in round three and won the fight by a unanimous twelve-round decision.\n\nThe two other reigning world champions in his division at that time, Livingstone Bramble and Jimmy Paul, were reluctant to unify the crown with Camacho. Instead, he beat Freddie Roach before his next fight of importance came along, ten months after beating Ramírez.\n\nHe met Edwin Rosario on June 13, 1986, at Madison Square Garden in New York City, a bout also broadcast on HBO. The fight was notable for the shifts of dominance between the men. Camacho dominated rounds one to four, but had to hang on in rounds five, six and seven, when he felt Rosario's power. He came back to take rounds eight and nine, but Rosario came back to take the last three rounds. It was a close fight, but Camacho retained the title by a split decision of the judges.\n\nCamacho retained his title against Cornelius Boza Edwards, a former world junior lightweight champion, in Miami in a unanimous decision, after dropping Edwards in the first round.\n\nHe went up in weight and competed at the next level. After a few fights there, he met Ray \"Boom Boom\" Mancini, the former world lightweight champion who had a record of 29–3 with 23 knockouts, for the vacant WBO Light Welterweight title. Camacho was the fresher of the two and won a split twelve-round decision. He joined that exclusive group of world champion boxers who have become world champions in three weight divisions.\n\nCamacho next met Vinny Pazienza, whom he defeated on points. His next challenger was Tony Baltazar, from Phoenix. He defeated Baltazar by points in a fight televised by HBO. His undefeated streak came to an end, and he lost his world championship to Greg Haugen, the former world Lightweight champion. The referee had deducted one point from Camacho for refusing to touch gloves with Haugen at the start of the 12th round. After the fight, an unidentified substance was found in Haugen's urine, and a rematch was ordered. Camacho regained the title, beating Haugen in a close split decision.\n\nIn 1992 in Las Vegas, Camacho met Julio César Chávez, a formidable Mexican champion who was undefeated 81–0. Camacho entered the ring in an outfit based on the Puerto Rican flag; the fight was televised by Showtime's Pay Per View. Camacho was later criticized for his retreating tactics during the fight; Chávez kept pushing the fight and harassed him with hard punches to the body. The bout ended with a victory for Chávez by unanimous decision.\n\nSince 1992 Camacho's notable fights included two victories (by points) over Roberto Durán, (one in Atlantic City, the other in Denver). In 1997, he knocked out Sugar Ray Leonard in five rounds. This loss sent the forty-one-year-old Leonard into permanent retirement, putting an end to his third comeback attempt six years after a loss to Terry Norris in 1991.\n\nCamacho fought for the World Welterweight Championship against Félix Trinidad (1994) and Oscar De La Hoya (1997), but he lost both matches by unanimous decisions.\n\nOn December 5, 2003, Camacho recovered from a first-round knockdown (the third against him in his career) to defeat Craig Houk by knockout in round three. He won consecutive unanimous ten-round decisions over Clinton McNeil and Raúl Jorge Muñoz. After that, his boxing career went on hiatus, as he faced criminal charges. He pled guilty to burglary and acknowledged drug abuse, but was given probation.\n\nCamacho returned to boxing on July 18, 2008, competing against Perry Ballard for the World Boxing Empire's Middleweight Championship. The fight lasted seven rounds. Camacho won when Ballard's corner threw the towel. Before this fight, Camacho was trained by Angelo Dundee. His last two fights resulted in a draw and a loss, against Luis Ramón Campas and Saúl Duran, respectively. His last fight against Duran was on May 14, 2010.\n\nOn January 6, 2005, Camacho was arrested by police in Gulfport, Mississippi on charges of trying to burgle an electronic goods store and carrying the drug ecstasy on him. In 2007, he declared himself guilty of being under the influence at the time of the burglary. He was sentenced to 7 years in prison, but a judge eventually suspended all but one year of the sentence and gave Camacho probation. He served two weeks in jail after violating that probation.\n\nOn February 12, 2011, Camacho was attacked near the Luis Lloréns Torres housing project in San Juan. Camacho said he was taking a friend to a nearby bar when two men approached his vehicle (a 2005 BMW X5) and tried to carjack him. When he tried to drive away, they shot at him three times. He said that since \"everybody loves me,\" he didn't think the men had realized who he was. He did not file a police report.\n\nIn November 2011, the Florida state attorney's office signed a warrant for Camacho's arrest for child abuse. He was accused of having physically attacked and injured his teenage son at his home with Camacho's ex-wife in March 2011. Camacho turned himself in to Florida authorities in April 2012. After posting a $5,000 bond at the Orange County Jail in Orlando, he was released. A trial was pending for Camacho in Orange County, Florida, at the time of his death.\n\nOn November 20, 2012, around 7 p.m. AST, Camacho was shot once in the jaw in Bayamón, Puerto Rico. Camacho, 50, was seated in the passenger seat of a friend's Ford Mustang when he was shot by unknown individuals from a passing SUV. The driver of the car, Adrian Mojica Moreno, a childhood friend of Camacho, was killed in the attack. Camacho was taken to San Pablo Hospital in Bayamón, where he was reported to be in critical condition. Police said a chase took place and that the van from which the shots were fired was found in the area of Jardines de Cataño. There were conflicting media reports, with an early claim that police arrested a suspect around 9 p.m. AST. Police investigating the incident say they found nine bags of cocaine in Mojica's possession and one open in the car.\n\nThe bullet pierced Camacho's left mandible and fractured his fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, lodging in his right shoulder and forming a lesion on his carotid artery that restricted blood flow to his brain. At one point doctors announced Camacho was expected to survive but might be paralyzed, but after he suffered a cardiac arrest during the night, doctors said they could find only minimal brain activity. The morning after the shooting, Rafael Rodríguez Mercado, director of the Medical Sciences Campus, reported to \"El Nuevo Día\" that Camacho was brain stem dead. \"His full recovery would be a miracle; medically there is nothing more that can be done,\" stated Rodríguez Mercado. This was confirmed the next morning by Ernesto Torres, director of the hospital.\n\nCamacho's mother Maria Matias announced on November 23 plans to have her son taken off life support once his three remaining sons arrived in Puerto Rico to be with him. Héctor Camacho was officially declared dead after a heart attack the following day. It was not possible for any of his organs to be donated to recipients because of the time that had passed between him being found clinically brain dead and when his heart stopped.\n\nHe is survived by his parents, his sons, two grandsons, his brother Félix and his sisters Raquel, Estrella and Esperanza. His oldest son, Hector Camacho Jr., said violence had overtaken Puerto Rico. \"Death, jail, drugs, killings,\" he said. \"That's what the streets are now.\"\nPuerto Rico's former governor, Luis Fortuno, said \"'Macho' will always be remembered for his spontaneity and charisma in and out of the ring.\" Puerto Rican governor-elect, Alejandro Garcia Padilla, said Camacho had \"united the country\"; \"We celebrated his triumphs in the streets and we applauded him with noble sportsmanship when he didn't prevail.\" Asked how he wished his father to be remembered, his son Héctor replied, \"As he always was, \"loco\" (crazy).\"\n\nAfter Camacho's death, his mother, María Matías, expressed the wish for her son to be buried in New York City, where he had grown up and started his fighting career. Camacho's son Héctor Camacho Jr. thought he should be buried in Puerto Rico, but agreed to his grandmother's and aunts' wishes.\n\nBefore being taken to the mainland United States, Camacho's body lay in state at the Puerto Rico Department of Sports and Recreation in Santurce. During the two days Camacho's body was on viewing, hundreds of people visited the facilities to pay tribute to the fighter.\n\nDozens of retired and active boxers from Puerto Rico and abroad were among those who participated in the funeral services. Among them were Félix \"Tito\" Trinidad, Wilfred Benítez, Wilfredo Gómez, John John Molina, Samuel Serrano, Román \"Rocky\" Martínez, Juan Manuel López, Nelson Dieppa, Alex \"El Nene\" Sánchez, Julian Solís, Manny Siaca, and the brothers McWilliams and McJoe Arroyo. Trinidad was outspoken in praise for his former rival, saying Camacho \"put Puerto Rico's flag up high, with a lot of pride like many other champions have done. He was very loved. You can see how everybody has suffered the loss of this great human being, a great champion.\" Trinidad regretted the circumstances of the fatal shooting.\n\nCamacho's body was flown to New York City on November 29 and presented at Elcock Funeral Home in Queens. On Friday, his body was taken to Saint Cecilia's Church in Manhattan for a religious service. Camacho was buried on December 1 in Saint Raymond's Cemetery in the Bronx. Before the burial, a parade was held in Camacho's honor in East Harlem. Two white horses pulled a hearse carriage up First Avenue surrounded by fans, friends and family of the late boxer. Camacho's casket was draped in a Puerto Rican flag. After a visitation and mass at St. Cecilia's Church on East 106th Street on November 30 and December 1, Camacho was buried on the afternoon of December 1, 2012, in Saint Raymond's Cemetery, Bronx in the Throggs Neck section of the Bronx.\n\nSeveral sports journalists, analysts, and experts from Puerto Rico and United States have praised Camacho's skills and influence in the boxing world. The journalist Rafael Bracero and Francisco Valcárcel, president of the World Boxing Organization, agreed that Camacho was among the \"Top 5 Puerto Rican boxers\" of all time, along with Félix \"Tito\" Trinidad, Wilfredo Gómez, and Wilfredo Benitez. The boxing historian, Mario Rivera Martinó, praised Camacho, calling him a \"complete fighter\" in the Lightweight division. José Sulaimán stated that he \"revolutionized boxing during his time\".\n\nEd Brophy, director of the International Boxing Hall of Fame, noted Camacho's talents in attracting an audience. He said, \"Camacho brought a lot of excitement to boxing. He was bright, colorful, and always gave something to talk about with his walks to the ring, with his unique style of entering, and the costumes he wore.\" Brophy also praised Camacho's boxing skills, describing him as \"an exciting fighter, and one of the greats. He faced the best, going up and down several divisions.\" Alfredo R. Martínez, senior editor of ESPN Deportes, also noted Camacho's flamboyant approach, saying that \"if he wasn't the first, he was one of the firsts that entered the ring with extravagant costumes, feather crests, bright clothes, everything to the rhythm of some pop song\".\n\nHiram Martínez, senior editor of ESPN Deportes, said about Camacho's training: \n\nhe transforms into a hungry, focused, and dedicated boxer, that works hours and hours polishing his speed, his wit, and the style that turned him into one of the greats of all time. That's the only way you can explain why all those great hitters he faced during the best moments of his career never knocked him down. \n\nJaime Vega-Curry (deputy editor of ESPN Deportes), said Camacho was \"a character that combined a contagious charisma, impressive boxing quality, a child's soul, a salesman's shrewdness, and a superlative confidence on himself and in the force of his 'Macho Time'\"\n\nBrophy noted Camacho would be eligible for the International Boxing Hall of Fame in December 2015. He added that \"Camacho is part of boxing history, and that's what the International Boxing Hall of Fame is about.\"\n\nCamacho, along with Lupe Pintor and Hilario Zapata, among others, was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame on December 2015 and was inducted on June 2016.\n\nCamacho had four sons, his oldest from an early relationship and three from his marriage. His eldest son, Héctor \"Machito\" Camacho Jr. (born 1978 in New York, when Camacho was 16), also became a professional boxer and has won a championship.\n\nCamacho married Amy Torres in 1991, and they had three sons: Justin (born December 1, 1989), Christian (born 1992), and Tyler Camacho (born 1998). (The \"New York Times\" reports the youngest son's name as \"Taylor\".) In 1998 she obtained a restraining order against Camacho, alleging he had threatened her and one of their sons. They divorced in 2001. As of March 2011, his ex-wife Amy Camacho and at least one son were living in Orange County, Florida. His youngest son, Tyler, also practices boxing.\n\nIn 2003, The Press and Guide of Dearborn, Michigan printed an engagement notice between Camacho and Shelly Salemassi, along with a photograph of the couple. Although they never married, the \"New York Post\" reported she was the only one of his love interests to fly to Camacho's New York funeral.\n\nDuring the peak of his career, Camacho became an icon in popular culture. He first appeared on Telemundo's \"Super Sábados\", where he joined a musical sketch, \"Macho Time\", named after his catchphrase. During the 1990s, Camacho appeared in episodes of \"El Show del Mediodía\", performing staged fights with Melwin Cedeño's character, Chevy, el Ponzoñú.\n\nIn 1992, Camacho invited Cedeño to sing a version with him of \"La Borinqueña\" before a fight, together with Pedro Guzmán, a fellow comedian/musician. The trio's publicity stunt drew strong criticism at the time. Camacho also appeared in the sitcom, \"The Wayans Bros.,\" portraying Manuel \"Hot Pepper\" López. He staged a fight against the main character, Marlon \"Suckerpunch\" Williams (Marlon Wayans).\n\nDue to his prominence, Camacho became the subject of cultural references in television, music and literature. Harry Mullan devoted a chapter to him, titled \"It's Macho Time,\" in his \"The Book of Boxing Quotations\" (1988). In a 2003 episode of \"King of the Hill,\" titled \"Boxing Luanne\", the titular character Hank Hill remarks \"Oh, I get it. A little flash… Like Héctor \"Macho\" Camacho\". after placing tassels in the boxing outfit of Luanne Platter. Rapper Lil Wayne referred to Camacho and the professional wrestler \"Macho Man\" (Randy Savage) in his 2008 single, \"Mr. Carter\".\n\nFollowing retirement, Camacho expanded his role as a television personality. In 2010, he took part in \"¡Mira Quien Baila!\", a reality show that is the American/Spanish-Speaking version of \"Dancing with the Stars\". He was the first to be eliminated from the competition. Camacho later joined the Univision entertainment news program \"El Gordo y La Flaca\" as a \"Mira Quien Baila\" critic and entertainment world newscaster. In March 2012, Camacho starred on a dating game show titled \"It's Macho Time,\" where women competed to be his \"girlfriend\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24452857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24452857", "title": "James H. Barry", "text": "James H. Barry\n\nJames H. Barry was the head coach of The College of William & Mary's football team for the 1907 season. He compiled a 6–3 record.\n"}
{"id": "57781778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57781778", "title": "Larnoch Road Murders", "text": "Larnoch Road Murders\n\nThe Larnoch Road murders were a high-profile double-murder case in Auckland, New Zealand. In 1999, Stephen Stone and Gail Maney were convicted of the 1989 murder of Deane Fuller-Sandys over a drug-related dispute. Stone was also convicted of the rape and murder of Leah Stephens, a witness to the killing of Fuller-Sandys. Two other men were also convicted of being accessories to the murder of Fuller-Sandys by disposing of his body.\n\nThe case is unusual in New Zealand legal history because of the decade-long gap between the crime and the conviction, the securing of a conviction despite a lack of forensic evidence, and the legal\n\nOn 21 August 1989, Deane Wade Fuller-Sandys, a 21-year-old Auckland tyre-fitter, went missing. His body was never found. Authorities initially believed he might have drowned after being swept out to sea while fishing at West Auckland's Whatipu Beach, where his car was discovered shortly afterwards. Five days later, on 26 August 1989, Leah Romany Stephens, a 20-year old Auckland sex worker, also disappeared. Her skeletal remains were discovered in a forest near the Muriwai Golf Course three years later, in June 1992. Police enquiries at the time did not lead to an arrest.\n\nIn early 1997, Auckland police began to receive information that the disappearances of Deane Fuller-Sandys and Leah Stephens (by then a cold case) were connected. Gail Denise Maney (born 1967), a sex worker, and her friend Stephen Ralph Stone (born 1969), a nightclub bouncer with gang affiliations, were arrested and charged with having murdered Fuller-Sandys at Maney's then-home in Larnoch Road in the West Auckland suburb of Henderson. Stone was also charged with raping and murdering Stephens at the same house. Gail Maney's younger brother, Colin Neil Maney (born 1971), and a mutual acquaintance, Mark William Henriksen (born 1967), were charged with being accessories to the murder of Fuller-Sandys. All four denied the charges.\n\nThe trial ran from 1–26 March 1999 at Auckland's High Court. Two male and two female witnesses were granted name suppression and immunity from prosecution in exchange for their trial testimony. The court heard that in August 1989, Gail Maney had ordered the killing of Deane Fuller-Sandys because she believed he had stolen drugs from her rented house at 22 Larnoch Road. On 21 August 1989, Fuller-Sandys was lured by one of the female witnesses to the garage of 22 Larnoch Road, where Stone used a handgun to shoot him in front of at least eight witnesses, among whom was Leah Stephens. Stone passed the gun to each of the four male witnesses, including Colin Maney and Henriksen, and directed them to fire bullets into the body to make them complicit in the murder. The men disposed of Fuller-Sandys' body in Woodhill Forest (although subsequent police searches failed to discover his remains), and left his vehicle at Whatipu Beach to make it appear he had drowned there. Five days later, Stone, believing that Leah Stephens was likely to inform police of the murder of Fuller-Sandys, raped and then murdered her with a knife at 22 Larnoch Road. The two male witnesses with immunity said they had disposed of Stephens' body at Muriwai.\n\nAfter two days' deliberation, the jury found Stone and Gail Maney guilty of the murder of Fuller-Sandys. Colin Maney and Mark Henriksen were convicted of being accessories to the murder of Fuller-Sandys by helping to dispose of his body. Stone was also convicted of the rape and murder of Stephens. He and Gail Maney were both sentenced to life imprisonment. Stone also received a 10-year concurrent sentence for the rape of Stephens. Henriksen was sentenced to three years' imprisonment, while Colin Maney (the youngest of the accused) received a two-year suspended sentence.\n\nGail Maney and Mark Henriksen appealed their convictions and were granted a retrial on the grounds that the original trial judge had not adequately summed up the case for their defence to the jury. However, both were again found guilty at their retrial in June 2000. In 2005, Gail Maney filed another appeal after one of the key female witnesses recanted her original trial testimony implicating Maney, but this appeal was also rejected. She was paroled in 2010, but was twice recalled to prison for breaches of her parole conditions. She continues to maintain her innocence.\n\nAlthough Stephen Stone admitted to the killing of Fuller-Sandys during a restorative justice meeting with Fuller-Sandys' family in 2010, he subsequently recanted this confession and reverted to his claims of innocence. Stone was declined parole in December 2017, and will not be eligible for parole again until November 2019.\n\nIn 2018, Radio New Zealand released a podcast documentary about the case, \"Gone Fishing.\" Subjects interviewed included Gail Maney, some of the key witnesses, and the former detective who led the police investigation, Mark Franklin. Franklin's reputation had been damaged after he was jailed for twelve months in the Cook Islands for selling cannabis to an undercover police officer there in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "11246377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11246377", "title": "Lionel Crabb", "text": "Lionel Crabb\n\nLionel Kenneth Phillip Crabb, (28 January 1909 – presumed dead 19 April 1956), known as Buster Crabb, was a Royal Navy frogman and MI6 diver who vanished during a reconnaissance mission around a Soviet cruiser berthed at Portsmouth Dockyard in 1956.\n\nLionel Crabb was born in 1909 to Hugh and Beatrice Crabb of Streatham, south-west London. They were a poor family. In his youth he held many jobs but after two years training for a career at sea in the school ship HMS \"Conway\" he joined the merchant navy and the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve before the Second World War.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War, Crabb was first an army gunner. Then, in 1941, he joined the Royal Navy. The next year he was sent to Gibraltar where he worked in a mine and bomb disposal unit to remove the Italian limpet mines that enemy divers had attached to the hulls of Allied ships. Initially, Crabb's job was to disarm mines that British divers removed, but eventually he decided to learn to dive.\n\nHe was one of a group of underwater clearance divers who checked for limpet mines in Gibraltar harbour during the period of Italian frogman and manned torpedo attacks by the Decima Flottiglia MAS. They dived with oxygen rebreathers Davis Submerged Escape Apparatus, which until then had not been used much if at all for swimming down from the surface. At first they swam by breaststroke without swimfins.\n\nOn 8 December 1942, during one such attack, two of the Italian frogmen, Lieutenant Visintini and Petty Officer Magro died, probably killed by depth charges. Their bodies were recovered, and their swimfins and Scuba sets were taken and from then on used by Sydney Knowles and Commander Lionel Crabb.\n\nHe was awarded the George Medal for his efforts and was promoted to lieutenant commander. In 1943 he became Principal Diving Officer for Northern Italy, was assigned to clear mines in the ports of Livorno and Venice; he was later created an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for these services. He was also an investigating diver in the suspicious death of General Sikorski of the Polish Army, whose B-24 Liberator aircraft crashed near Gibraltar in 1943.\n\nBy this time he had gained the nickname \"Buster\", named after American actor and swimmer Buster Crabbe. After the war Crabb was stationed in Palestine and led an underwater explosives disposal team that removed mines placed by Jewish divers from the Palyam, the maritime force of the Palmach elite Jewish fighting force during the years of Mandatory Palestine. After 1947, he was demobilised from the military.\n\nCrabb moved to a civilian job and used his diving skills to explore the wreck of a Spanish galleon from the 1588 Armada, off Tobermory on the Isle of Mull. He then located a suitable site for a discharge pipe for the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment at Aldermaston. He later returned to work for the Royal Navy. He twice dived to investigate sunken Royal Navy submarines — the HMS \"Truculent\" in January 1950 and HMS \"Affray\" in 1951 — to find out whether there were any survivors. Both efforts were fruitless. In 1952 Crabb married Margaret Elaine Player, the daughter of Henry Charles Brackenbury Williamson and the former wife of Ernest Albert Player. The couple separated in 1953 and divorced about two years later.\n\nIn 1955 Crabb took frogman Sydney Knowles with him to investigate the hull of the Soviet cruiser \"Sverdlov\" to evaluate its superior manoeuvrability. According to Knowles, they found a circular opening at the ship's bow and inside it a large propeller that could be directed to give thrust to the bow. That same year, March 1955, Crabb was made to retire due to his age, but a year later he was recruited by MI6. By this point, Crabb's heavy drinking and smoking had taken its toll on his health, and Crabb was not the diver that he had been in World War II.\n\nMI6 recruited Crabb in 1956 to investigate the Soviet cruiser \"Ordzhonikidze\" that had taken Nikita Khrushchev and Nikolai Bulganin on a diplomatic mission to Britain. According to Peter Wright in his book \"Spycatcher\" (1987), Crabb was sent to investigate \"Ordzhonikidze\"'s propeller, a new design that Naval Intelligence wanted to examine. On 19 April 1956, Crabb dived into Portsmouth Harbour and his MI6 controller never saw him again. Crabb's companion in the Sally Port Hotel took all his belongings and even the page of the hotel register on which they had written their names. Ten days later British newspapers published stories about Crabb's disappearance in an underwater mission.\n\nMI6 tried to cover up this espionage mission. On 29 April, under instructions from Rear Admiral John Inglis, the Director of Naval Intelligence, the Admiralty announced that Crabb had vanished when he had taken part in trials of secret underwater apparatus in Stokes Bay on the Solent. The Soviets answered by releasing a statement stating that the crew of \"Ordzhonikidze\" had seen a frogman near the cruiser on 19 April.\n\nBritish newspapers speculated that the Soviets had captured Crabb and taken him to the Soviet Union. The British Prime Minister Anthony Eden apparently disapproved of the fact that MI6 had operated without his consent in the UK (the preserve of the Security Service, \"MI5\"). It is mistakenly claimed that Eden forced director-general John Sinclair to resign following the incident. In fact, he had determined to replace Sinclair with MI5 director-general Dick White before the incident. Eden told MPs it was not in the public interest to disclose the circumstances in which the frogman met his end.\n\nA little less than 14 months after Crabb's disappearance, on 9 June 1957, a body in a diving suit was brought to the surface in their net by two fishermen off Pilsey Island in Chichester Harbour. The body was brought to shore in a landing craft operated by members of RAF Marine Craft Unit No. 1107.\n\nIt was missing its head and both hands, which made it impossible to identify (using then-available technology). According to British diving expert Rob Hoole, the body had the same height as Crabb, the same body-hair colour, and was dressed in the same clothes, Pirelli two-piece diving suit and Admiralty Pattern swim fins that Crabb was wearing when he embarked on his final mission. Hoole wrote that given the length of time that Crabb's body had been in the water, there was \"nothing sinister\" about the missing head and hands. Crabb's ex-wife was not sure enough to identify the body, nor was Crabb's girlfriend, Pat Rose. Sydney Knowles was requested to identify the body shortly after its discovery. He described the body as being clad in a faded green rubber frogman suit of a type issued to Royal Navy divers, and the remains of a white sweater. The suit had been cut open from the neck to the groin and along both legs, revealing very dark pubic hair. Knowles examined the body closely, looking for a Y-shaped scar behind the left knee and a prominent scar on the left thigh. He failed to find any scars on the body, and stated that it was not Crabb.\n\nA pathologist, Dr. D. P. King, examined the body and stated in a short report for the inquest that a careful examination of the body failed to reveal any scars or marks of identification.\n\nThe inquest was opened on 11 June 1957 by Bridgman, who had received the pathologist's report that there was no way of establishing identification. As neither Knowles nor Crabb's ex-wife nor a Lieutenant McLanachan, a Royal Navy torpedo officer from HMS \"Vernon\", had been able to identify the body; Bridgman adjourned the inquest until 26 June to allow time for a positive identification.\n\nThe inquest was resumed on 26 June. The pathologist, King, gave evidence that he had returned to the mortuary and re-examined the body on 14 June. He reported that he had found a scar in the shape of an inverted Y on the left side of the left knee, and a scar on the left thigh, about the size of a sixpenny coin. King stated that the scar had been photographed whilst he was present.\n\nAs information was declassified under the 50-year rule, new facts on Crabb's disappearance came to light. On 27 October 2006, the National Archives released papers relating to the fatal \"Ordzhonikidze\" mission. Sydney Knowles, a former diving partner of Crabb's, stated in a televised interview on \"Inside Out – South\" on 19 January 2007 that Crabb did not dive alone on his fatal last mission: \"He told me they'd given him a buddy diver.\" Furthermore, papers released under the Freedom of Information Act indicate that there were other divers investigating the \"Ordzhonikidze\" while the ship was in Portsmouth Harbour. On 9 November 2007, \"The Independent\" reported how the government had covered up the death of 'Buster' Crabb.\n\nThe cruiser \"Ordzhonikidze\" was later transferred by the Soviet government to Indonesia in 1962, where it operated as KRI \"Irian\". The ship operated in the conflict against the Netherlands over West Papua, and was later used as floating detention centre for suspected communists during the Indonesian killings of 1965–1966. The cruiser was scrapped in 1971.\n\nThe spy Harry Houghton wrote a book called \"Operation Portland\" after he was released from prison in which he outlined the explanation of Crabb's death which he claimed to have been given by his Russian handler, a man he knew as Roman, in July 1956. Houghton claims that shortly before the Soviet visit he had been meeting Roman in a pub in Puncknowle, Dorset, and happened to see a friend who worked at the Underwater Detection Establishment with her boyfriend who was a diver. The boyfriend was annoyed that he had been training for something special, which had just been called off. Shortly after hearing this, Roman had cut short the meeting.\n\nAccording to this account, after guessing that there may be some attempt by divers connected with the \"Ordzhonikidze\", the Soviet Navy had arranged for six underwater sentries to watch the bottom of the ship, which had been fitted with wire jackstays on either side to help them hold on to. When Crabb arrived, a struggle ensued in which Crabb's air supply was turned off and he passed out. He was then hauled on board, and taken to the sick bay (having passed out a second time) and given medical treatment.\n\nWhen Crabb had recovered sufficiently, the Soviets began to interrogate him; Crabb was making a confession when he collapsed and this time did not recover. The Soviets, aware that they might be accused of causing his death, decided to fix his body lightly to the bottom of the ship so that it came loose once the ship was under way. In the event, the body entangled in something underwater which meant it did not get discovered for fourteen months. Houghton also puts forward the theory that Crabb's mission was to plant a small limpet mine on the \"Ordzhonikidze\" whose purpose was to detect whether the Soviet Navy was using the latest sonar technology: if it was, the mine would detonate, and the ship would slow down; if not, the mine would eventually detach and go to the bottom of the sea.\n\nIn a 1990 interview Joseph Zwerkin, a former member of Soviet Naval intelligence who had moved to Israel after the breakup of the Soviet Union, claimed that the Soviets had noticed Crabb in the water and that a Soviet sniper had shot him. Official government documents regarding Crabb's disappearance are not scheduled to be released until 2057.\n\nOn 16 November 2007, the BBC and the \"Daily Mirror\" reported that Eduard Koltsov, a Soviet frogman, claimed to have caught Crabb placing a mine on the \"Ordzhonikidze\" hull near the ammunition depot and cut his throat. In an interview for a documentary film, Koltsov showed the dagger he allegedly used in a Russian documentary as well as an Order of the Red Star medal that he claimed to have been awarded for the deed. Koltsov, 74 at the time of the interview, stated that he wanted to clear his conscience and make known exactly what happened to Crabb. It seems extremely unlikely that the British government would have tried to blow up a Soviet ship on a diplomatic mission while it was anchored in British waters carrying the leaders of the Soviet Union, making Koltsov's claim of a mine suspect. A Russian journalist from the military \"Krasnaya Zvezda\" newspaper considers Koltsov's story improbable. In particular the archive documents do not confirm that Koltsov (a city bus driver for 30 years in Rostov-on-Don) was awarded Order of the Red Star or was a Soviet frogman. An account of this event in the \"Daily Mail\" says that Buster Crabb may have been planting not an explosive device but a listening device.\n\nCertain Members of Parliament and Michael Hall became concerned about Crabb's ultimate fate and in 1961, Commander J.S. Kerans (and later in 1964 Marcus Lipton) submitted proposals to re-open the case but were rebuffed. Various people speculated that Crabb had been killed by some secret Soviet underwater weapon; that he had been captured and imprisoned in Lefortovo prison with prison number 147, that he had been brainwashed to work for the Soviet Union to train their frogman teams; that he had defected and became a commander in the Soviet Navy; that he was in the Soviet Special Task Underwater Operational Command in the Black Sea Fleet; or that MI6 had asked him to defect so he could become a double agent.\n\nOn 26 March 2006, \"the Mail on Sunday\" published an article by Tim Binding entitled \"Buster Crabb was murdered – by MI5\". Binding wrote a fictionalised account of Crabb's life, \"Man Overboard\" which was published by Picador in 2005. Binding stated that, following the book's publication, he was contacted by Sydney Knowles. Binding alleged that he then met Knowles in Spain and was told that Crabb was known by MI5 to have intentions of defecting to the USSR. This would have been embarrassing for the UK — Crabb being an acknowledged war hero. Knowles has suggested that MI5 set up the mission to the \"Ordzhonikidze\" specifically to murder Crabb, and supplied Crabb with a new diving partner who was under orders to kill him. Binding stated Knowles alleged that he was ordered by MI5 to identify the body found as Crabb, when he knew it was definitely not Crabb. Knowles went along with the deception. Knowles has also alleged that his life was threatened in Torremolinos in 1989, at a time when Knowles was in discussions with a biographer. About the claims that Crabb was planning to defect to the Soviet Union, Reg Vallintine of the Historical Diving Society was quoted as saying:\"Diving historians find it very hard to believe that this man, who prided himself on being a patriot, would have seriously considered defecting. Crabb was very fond of being a hero, and it is hard to imagine him jeopardising that status.\" It is not clear just why MI6 would recruit a man who was known to be planning to defect to the Soviet Union to spy against the Soviet Union or why Crabb would agree to such a mission if he really had decided that he wanted to live in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe British diving expert Rob Hoole wrote in 2007 that Crabb had probably died of oxygen poisoning or perhaps carbon dioxide poisoning, and that Crabb's age and poor health caused by his heavy drinking and smoking had made him unsuitable for the mission that he had been assigned. In support of the death by misadventure theory, Hoole noted that before disappearing on his second attempt to dive the \"Ordzhonikidze\", Crabb had during his first attempt experienced equipment failure, which suggested that Crabb's equipment was not up to standard. Crabb's MI6 officer John Nicholas Rede Elliott always took the view that Crabb had suffered equipment failure and/or his health had given way, and that his reputation had been unfairly dragged through the mud.\n\nIn a War Documentary Series titled “Secrets Of War,” episode titled “The Cold War. Khrushchev's Regime“ A 1996 interview with former head of the KGB Vladimir Semichastny reported, Crabb's decapitated body was found floating in the harbour 2 months after his disappearance. In the interview, Semichastny states that the “Crabb Affair” was handled elegantly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48506006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48506006", "title": "List of Autodromo de Buenos Aires fatalities", "text": "List of Autodromo de Buenos Aires fatalities\n\nFatal accidents to competitors at the Autódromo Juan y Oscar Gálvez, in Buenos Aires, Argentina during the 1000 km Buenos Aires and other national and international motor-sport events.\n"}
{"id": "23912074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23912074", "title": "List of Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps fatalities", "text": "List of Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps fatalities\n\nFatal accidents to competitors on the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps, Belgium during national and international motor-sport events on the circuit (1924–1978) and the shortened Grand Prix circuit from 1979 onwards.\n"}
{"id": "49315934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49315934", "title": "MV Christinaki", "text": "MV Christinaki\n\nMV \"Christinaki\" was a Maltese bulk carrier which sank in the Atlantic Ocean south west of Ireland during a force 10 gale with a cargo of scrap metal and 27 crew while she was travelling from Liverpool, United Kingdom to Vera Cruz.\n\n\"Christinaki\" was constructed in 1973 at the Upper Clyde Shipbuilders Ltd. shipyard in Govan, Scotland, United Kingdom. She was launched on 29 June 1972 and completed on 1 February 1973 for Irish Shipping and was named \"MV Irish Pine\" and switched owners and names several times before her demise in 1994.\nThe ship was long, with a beam of and a depth of . The ship was assessed at . She had a 1 x 6cyl. 2SA Kincaid-B&W 6K74EF engine driving a single screw propeller, the engine was rated at 11.400 b.h.p.\n\nOn 2 February 1994, \"Christinaki\" left Liverpool, United Kingdom with a cargo of scrap metal bound for Vera Cruz. \n\nThe following day the weather worsened and the ship was soon caught in a force 10 storm south west of Ireland with 35 feet (10 meter) waves ramming her deck. The ship quickly took on water as the hold hatch covers failed. The crew knowing that the ship was taken in water and was in mortal danger quickly radioed a distress signal at 4 PM. The last radio contact was made at 4:30 PM, at this time the ships is believed to have sunk. Rescuers searched the following day for any survivors near the last known location of the ship but it was soon clear that the 27 Greek and Filipino crew members had perished.\n\nThe wreck's current position is unknown.\n"}
{"id": "58886205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58886205", "title": "Margarete Hielscher", "text": "Margarete Hielscher\n\nMargarete Hielscher (September 12, 1899 in Arnsdorf - April 13, 1985 in Stadtroda) was a German doctor, who was involved in Nazi crimes in the context of \"child euthanasia\". Margarete Hielscher propagated in 1930 a segregation of mentally handicapped people whom she described as \"hereditary inferiority\". During the Second World War, she led under the hospital clinic director Gerhard Kloos - euphemistically called - \"Children's Department\" at the Thuringia State Hospitals Stadtroda, which was affiliated to the youth psychiatric department; the children admitted there, at least 72 died through food deprivation or lethal injection. \n"}
{"id": "9882193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9882193", "title": "Massa (gorilla)", "text": "Massa (gorilla)\n\nMassa (1930 – 30 December 1984) was the oldest living gorilla, reaching an age of 54 years, until his death in 1984.\n\nMassa was born in the wild in Ghana. He was shipped to America at an early age and his first owner was Brooklyn eccentric Gertrude Lintz. In 1935, after accidentally spilling water on Massa, which startled him severely, Mrs. Lintz decided to sell him to the Philadelphia Zoo.\n\nIn his prime, Massa weighed 400 lbs.\n\nMassa lived at the zoo until his death from a stroke on 30 December 1984, following a special birthday party held by the zoo, complete with a special cake and a live dixieland band. He was buried within the grounds of the zoo.\n\nThe film \"Buddy\" was based on the life of Massa (with some elements from the life of another of Mrs. Lintz's gorillas, Gargantua, who was known at the time as Buddy).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8628612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628612", "title": "Miguel of Braganza", "text": "Miguel of Braganza\n\n\"Dom\" Michael of Braganza () was a Portuguese infante, illegitimate son of King Pedro II of Portugal and of the French lady Anne Armande Pastre de Verger (sometimes called \"du Vergé\"). He was born in Lisbon on 15 October 1699 and died drowned in the Tagus River on 13 January 1724.\n\nHe married \"Dona\" Luísa Casimira de Sousa Nassau e Ligne, Princess of Ligne by her father, and, through her mother, heiress of a rich noble family: she was 30th. Lady of the House of Sousa, 6th. Countess of Miranda do Corvo and honorary Duchess of Lafões.\n\nThey had two sons and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "21797945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21797945", "title": "Nigger (dog)", "text": "Nigger (dog)\n\nNigger was a male black labrador retriever belonging to Wing Commander Guy Gibson of the Royal Air Force, and the mascot of No. 617 Squadron. Gibson owned the dog when he was previously a member of 106 Squadron. Nigger often accompanied Gibson on training flights and was a great favourite of the members of both 106 and 617 Squadrons. He was noted for his liking of beer, which he drank from his own bowl in the Officers' Mess.\n\nNigger died on 16 May 1943, the day of the famous \"Dam Busters\" raid, when he was hit by a car. He was buried at midnight as Gibson was leading the raid. \"Nigger\" (Morse code: -. .. --. --. . .-. ) was the codeword Gibson used to confirm the breach of the Möhne Dam. Nigger's grave is at Royal Air Force station Scampton, Lincolnshire.\n\nThe word nigger was used as a dog's name during the early part of the 20th century. A black explosive sniffer dog named Nigger served with a Royal Engineers mine clearance unit in 1944 during the Normandy Campaign. The dog leading a sledge dog team on the Terra Nova Expedition to the Antarctic (1910-1912) was also named Nigger.\n\nNigger was portrayed in the 1955 British war film \"The Dam Busters\", in which he was mentioned by name frequently. In 1999, British television network ITV broadcast a censored version of the film, with all instances of the name removed. ITV blamed regional broadcaster London Weekend Television, which in turn alleged that a junior staff member had been responsible for the unauthorised cuts. When ITV again showed a censored version in June 2001, it was criticised by Index on Censorship as \"unnecessary and ridiculous\" and because the edits introduced continuity errors. The code word \"nigger\" transmitted in Morse Code upon the successful completion of the central mission was not censored. More recently, in 2012, ITV3 had shown the film uncut a few times, but with a warning at the start that it contains racial terms from the period which some people may find offensive. However, in 2013 the film had been shown a few times by Channel 5 uncut and without any warning. On Thursday 17th May 2018 a uncut version was shown on UK channel Film 4 with warning explaining about historical and some would find racial offensive.\n\nSome edited American versions of the film use dubbing to change Nigger's name to Trigger.\n\nFilm critics have observed that Nigger is used in the film as a symbol of the men's emotional attachment to one another, an attachment that is not directly expressed between the film's characters. Sarah Street notes that the film, while full of emotion, does not articulate it except through secondary devices such as the affection that the characters are shown giving to Nigger. Christine Geraghty, a lecturer in media studies, observed that \"Gibson's suppression of feelings is presented as appropriate rather than problematic, and the use of the dog as his most explicit emotional attachment is in keeping with the way in which class and masculinity are brought together in this isolated but self-sufficient figure.\" James Chapman, lecturer at the Open University, adds to that the observation that the scene where Gibson is shown choking back his grief at the death of Nigger, silent and blinking awkwardly, is an example of the stiff upper lip behaviour characteristic of British war films of the genre.\n\nRichard Todd, who played Gibson in the film, was interviewed on BBC Radio 4's \"Today\" programme in 2005 along with Jonathan Falconer, author of a book about the film, about the name of the dog and whether any remake of the film should retain the name. Todd, in a pre-recorded interview, said:\nIn response to being asked whether the name should be censored in a remake, Falconer said:\n\nIn response to being asked whether he thought people would accept this as historical accuracy, Falconer said:\nIn the same interview, George Baker, who also acted in the film, in response to being asked whether any opinion had been expressed on the name at the time that the film was made, said:\nPeter Jackson, producer of the remake that later began, said in 2006 that \"It is not our intention to offend people. But really you are in a no-win, damned-if-you-do-and-damned-if-you-don't scenario: If you change it, everyone's going to whinge and whine about political correctness. And if you don't change it, obviously you are offending a lot of people inadvertently. … We haven't made any decisions about what we'll do.\" Stephen Fry, writer for the remake, was asked to provide several alternative names for the dog, and came up with several suggestions. Executive producer David Frost rejected them all, saying \"Guy sometimes used to call his dog Nigsy, so I think that's what we will call it. Stephen has been coming up with other names, but this is the one I want.\" Jackson's assistant contradicted this a week later, however, saying \"To stay true to the story, you can't just change [the name]. We have not made any decisions yet. The script is still being written; and that decision will be made closer to the time.\"\n\nRecently, one writer, James Holland, has commented that controversy over the dog's name seems to have overshadowed other aspects of the raid. When he told people that he was planning to write a book on the raid, 9 out of 10 replied \"What are you going to call the dog?\". He found that the three characters connected with the raid that most people had heard of were Guy Gibson, Barnes Wallis and Nigger the dog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33692363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33692363", "title": "Optokinetic drum", "text": "Optokinetic drum\n\nAn optokinetic drum —also called catford drum— is a rotating instrument to test vision in which individuals are seated facing the wall of the drum. The interior surface of the drum is normally striped; thus, as the drum rotates, the subject's eyes are subject to a moving visual field while the subject remains stationary, this phenomenon is called optokinetic Nystagmus. The speed of the drum and the duration of the test may be varied. Control groups are placed in a drum without stripes or rotation. After exposure to the rotating drum, subjects are surveyed to determine their susceptibility to motion sickness. A study in which the optokinetic drum was used to test the symptoms of the sopite syndrome showed increased mood changes in response to the visual cues, though these effects were compounded by other environmental factors such as boredom and lack of activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "767287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=767287", "title": "Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa", "text": "Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa\n\nPedro Sarmiento de Gamboa (1532–1592) was a Spanish explorer, author, historian, mathematician, astronomer, and scientist. His birthplace is not certain and may have been Pontevedra, in Galicia, where his paternal family originated, or Alcalá de Henares in Castile, where he later is known to have studied . His father Bartolomé Sarmiento was born in Pontevedra and his mother María Gamboa was born in Bilbao, Basque Country.\n\nAt the age of 18, Sarmiento de Gamboa entered the royal military in the European wars. Between 1550 and 1555 the future navigator fought in the armies of Emperor Charles V. In 1555 he began his exploring career, sailing across the Atlantic Ocean. His first destination was New Spain (in what is today Mexico), where he lived for two years. Little is known of this period in his life, other than that he encountered difficulties with the Inquisition. He then sailed to Peru, where he lived for more than twenty years, gaining a reputation as a navigator.\n\nIn Lima he was accused by the Inquisition of possessing two magic rings and some magic ink and of following the precepts of Moses. He then joined Álvaro de Mendaña's expedition through the southern Pacific Ocean to find the \"Terra Australis Incognita\", which, should Mendaña followed Sarmiento's indications, had reached New Zealand or/and Australia; but they discovered the Solomon Islands instead, in 1568. The expedition failed to find gold and attempts at establishing a settlement in the Solomon Islands ended in failure.\n\nIn order to take credit of the discoveries for himself Mendaña threw the journals and maps made by Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa overboard and abandoned him in Mexico. However, a trial was then held in Lima, with the result giving Sarmiento credit for the discoveries.\n\nIn 1572 he was commissioned by Francisco de Toledo, the fifth Viceroy of Peru, to write a history of the Incas. Toledo hoped such a history would justify Spanish colonisation by revealing the violent history of the Incas. Sarmiento collected oral accounts first hand from Inca informants and produced a history (commonly titled \"The History of the Incas\") that chronicles their violent conquest of the region.\n\nWritten in Cuzco, the capital of the Inca Empire, just forty years after the arrival of the first Spaniards in the city, Sarmiento's \"The History of the Incas\" contains extremely detailed descriptions of Inca history and mythology. The royal sponsorship of the work guaranteed Sarmiento direct access to the highest Spanish officials in Cuzco. It also allowed him to summon influential natives, as well as those who had witnessed the fall of the Inca Empire, so that they could relate their stories. Sarmiento travelled widely and interviewed numerous local leaders and lords, surviving members of the royal Inca families, and the few remaining Spanish conquistadors who still resided in Cuzco. Once the first draft of the history was completed, in an unprecedented effort to establish the unquestionable authenticity of the work, his manuscript was read, chapter by chapter, to forty-two indigenous authorities for their commentary and correction. After the public reading, which occurred on 29 February and 1 March 1572, the manuscript was entrusted to a member of the viceroy's personal guard. He was to take the manuscript to Spain and deliver it to King Philip II, along with four painted cloths showing the history of the Incas and a number of other artefacts and objects that Toledo had collected. However, due to a series of unusual events, this irreplaceable document of Inca history was relegated to obscurity for centuries.\n\nHe became the commander of the naval station in the Pacific in 1578, when Sir Francis Drake attacked the coasts of Peru and Mexico. Sarmiento de Gamboa sailed out of the port of Callao with eleven vessels in 1579 to capture Drake. He did not find Drake, who had gone westward through the Pacific Ocean, but he explored the southern Pacific Coast of South America, passed the Magellan Strait from west to east for the second time, drawing precious maps of many points of the Strait, and, after an impressive sailing of the Atlantic Ocean from southwest to northeast, he reached Spain in late 1580.\n\nOn his reporting the results of his expedition to King Philip II of Spain, the latter resolved to fortify the Strait, and in 1581 sent an expedition of twenty-four vessels with 2,500 men from Cadiz, under the command of Sarmiento de Gamboa and Diego Flores Valdez. The expedition lost eight vessels in a storm, and Flores, on account of rivalry with Sarmiento de Gamboa, abandoned him with twelve vessels in the entry of the Strait and returned to Spain. With only four vessels, Sarmiento de Gamboa continued the voyage, arriving in January 1583 at a favorable point, where he established a fort and colony garrisoned by 300 men which he called \"Rey Don Felipe\". The settlement failed shortly after he left, and when Thomas Cavendish visited the ruins in 1587 he renamed the place Port Famine.\n\nIn 1584 Sarmiento de Gamboa sailed for Europe, but he was captured by an English fleet under to Sir Walter Raleigh and carried to England where he was presented to Queen Elizabeth I of England. They had a conversation in Latin, which was their only common language, and despite Spain's official policy of keeping all navigational information secret, shared his maps with British cartographers. Queen Elizabeth gave him a \"Letter of Peace\" to be carried to King Phillip II of Spain. However, on his way back to Spain he was captured by French Huguenots and was kept prisoner until 1588. During that time Spain mounted the Spanish Armada and attacked the English fleet. If Queen Elizabeth's \"Letter of Peace\" had been delivered in time to Spain, there might not have been a war. Meanwhile, his colony dissolved and gradually perished of starvation; one of the survivors was rescued by Cavendish's fleet in 1587, and another by Meriche in 1589. After his liberation, Sarmiento de Gamboa made a representation of his experience and a complaint against Flores to King Philip II; it seems that his complaint was neglected.\n\nPedro Sarmiento de Gamboa spent the rest of his life dedicating himself to his writings and worked as an editor of poetry. On his last naval mission in the service of the king he was made Admiral of an armada of galleons en route to the Indies. He died on board ship, near the coast of Lisbon.\n\nSarmiento de Gamboa is commemorated in the scientific name of a species of South American lizard, \"Liolaemus sarmientoi\".\n\nA Spanish research vessel, \"BO Sarmiento de Gamboa\", also carries his name.\n\nSeveral geographic features in Chile bear the name of Pedro Sarminento de Gamboa:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51897188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51897188", "title": "Roivant Sciences", "text": "Roivant Sciences\n\nRoivant Sciences Ltd. is a pharmaceutical company that in-licenses late-stage drug candidates and develops them through subsidiaries. Roivant and its subsidiaries have operations in San Francisco, San Diego, Irvine and Brisbane, California; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Durham, North Carolina; New York; Beijing and Shanghai, China, Basel, Switzerland and Vancouver, Canada. \n\nThe company was founded in 2014 by Vivek Ramaswamy. The company's leadership includes: Mayukh Sukhatme, Matthew Gline, Myrtle Potter, Frank Torti, Adele Gulfo, Sam Azoulay, Ben Zimmer and Allen Waxman.\n\nIn June 2018, Roivant laid off 67 employees and reassigned 130 to subsidiaries.\n\nIn 2014 the company raised $93 million in a seed round led by QVT Financial which included Dexcel Pharma. In 2015 the company had a PE/Growth round of $500 million led by Viking Global. In 2017 the company had a PE/Growth round of $1.1 billion led by Softbank Vision Fund, with participation from Founders Fund.\n\nThe company's subsidiaries include:\n"}
{"id": "54421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54421", "title": "Sex-selective abortion", "text": "Sex-selective abortion\n\nSex-selective abortion is the practice of terminating a pregnancy based upon the predicted sex of the infant. The selective abortion of female fetuses is most common where male children are valued over female children, especially in parts of East Asia and South Asia (particularly in countries such as People's Republic of China, India and Pakistan), as well as in the Caucasus, and Western Balkans.\n\nSex selective abortion was first documented in 1975, and became commonplace by the late 1980s in South Korea and China.\n\nSex-selective abortion affects the human sex ratio—the relative number of males to females in a given age group, with China and India, the two most populous countries of the world, having unbalanced gender ratios. Studies and reports focusing on sex-selective abortion are predominantly statistical; they assume that birth sex ratio—the overall ratio of boys and girls at birth for a regional population, is an indicator of sex-selective abortion. This assumption has been questioned by some scholars.\n\nScholars who support the assumption, suggest that the expected birth sex ratio range is 103 to 107 males to females at birth. Countries considered to have significant practices of sex-selective abortion are those with birth sex ratios of 108 and above (selective abortion of females), and 102 and below (selective abortion of males).\n\nSex-selective abortion affects the human sex ratio—the relative number of males to females in a given age group. Studies and reports that discuss sex-selective abortion are based on the assumption that birth sex ratio—the overall ratio of boys and girls at birth for a regional population, is an indicator of sex-selective abortion.\n\nThe natural human sex ratio at birth was estimated, in a 2002 study, to be close to 106 boys to 100 girls. Human sex ratio at birth that is significantly different from 106 is often assumed to be correlated to the prevalence and scale of sex-selective abortion. This assumption is controversial, and a subject of continuing scientific studies.\n\nOne school of scholars suggest that any birth sex ratio of boys to girls that is outside of the normal 105-107 range, necessarily implies sex-selective abortion. These scholars claim that both the sex ratio at birth and the population sex ratio are remarkably constant in human populations. Significant deviations in birth sex ratios from the normal range can only be explained by manipulation, that is sex-selective abortion.\n\nIn a widely cited article, Amartya Sen compared the birth sex ratio in Europe (106) and United States (105) with those in Asia (107+) and argued that the high sex ratios in East Asia, West Asia and South Asia may be due to excessive female mortality. Sen pointed to research that had shown that if men and women receive similar nutritional and medical attention and good health care then females have better survival rates, and it is the male which is the genetically fragile sex.\n\nSen estimated 'missing women' from extra women who would have survived in Asia if it had the same ratio of women to men as Europe and United States. According to Sen, the high birth sex ratio over decades, implies a female shortfall of 11% in Asia, or over 100 million women as missing from the 3 billion combined population of South Asia, West Asia, North Africa and China.\n\nOther scholars question whether birth sex ratio outside 103-107 can be due to natural reasons. William James and others suggest that conventional assumptions have been:\n\nJames cautions that available scientific evidence stands against the above assumptions and conclusions. He reports that there is an excess of males at birth in almost all human populations, and the natural sex ratio at birth is usually between 102 and 108. However the ratio may deviate significantly from this range for natural reasons such as early marriage and fertility, teenage mothers, average maternal age at birth, paternal age, age gap between father and mother, late births, ethnicity, social and economic stress, warfare, environmental and hormonal effects. This school of scholars support their alternate hypothesis with historical data when modern sex-selection technologies were unavailable, as well as birth sex ratio in sub-regions, and various ethnic groups of developed economies. They suggest that direct abortion data should be collected and studied, instead of drawing conclusions indirectly from human sex ratio at birth.\n\nJames' hypothesis is supported by historical birth sex ratio data before technologies for ultrasonographic sex-screening were discovered and commercialized in the 1960s and 1970s, as well by reverse abnormal sex ratios currently observed in Africa. Michel Garenne reports that many African nations have, over decades, witnessed birth sex ratios below 100, that is more girls are born than boys. Angola, Botswana and Namibia have reported birth sex ratios between 94 and 99, which is quite different than the presumed 104 to 106 as natural human birth sex ratio.\n\nJohn Graunt noted that in London over a 35-year period in the 17th century (1628–62), the birth sex ratio was 1.07; while Korea's historical records suggest a birth sex ratio of 1.13, based on 5 million births, in 1920s over a 10-year period. Other historical records from Asia too support James hypothesis. For example, Jiang et al. claim that the birth sex ratio in China was 116–121 over a 100-year period in the late 18th and early 19th centuries; in the 120–123 range in the early 20th century; falling to 112 in the 1930s.\n\nIn the United States, the sex ratios at birth over the period 1970–2002 were 105 for the white non-Hispanic population, 104 for Mexican Americans, 103 for African Americans and Native Americans, and 107 for mothers of Chinese or Filipino ethnicity. Among Western European countries c. 2001, the ratios ranged from 104 to 107. In the aggregated results of 56 Demographic and Health Surveys in African countries, the birth sex ratio was found to be 103, though there is also considerable country-to-country, and year-to-year variation.\n\nIn a 2005 study, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services reported sex ratio at birth in the United States from 1940 over 62 years. This statistical evidence suggested the following: For mothers having their first baby, the total sex ratio at birth was 106 overall, with some years at 107. For mothers having babies after the first, this ratio consistently decreased with each additional baby from 106 towards 103. The age of the mother affected the ratio: the overall ratio was 105 for mothers aged 25 to 35 at the time of birth; while mothers who were below the age of 15 or above 40 had babies with a sex ratio ranging between 94 and 111, and a total sex ratio of 104. This United States study also noted that American mothers of Hawaiian, Filipino, Chinese, Cuban and Japanese ethnicity had the highest sex ratio, with years as high as 114 and average sex ratio of 107 over the 62-year study period. Outside of United States, European nations with extensive birth records, such as Finland, report similar variations in birth sex ratios over a 250-year period, that is from 1751 to 1997 AD.\n\nIn 2016, according to CIA estimates, the countries with the highest birth sex ratio were Liechtenstein (126), China (115), Armenia (113), India (112), Hong Kong (112), Azerbaijan (111), Falkland Islands (111), Vietnam (111), Albania (110), Grenada (110), San Marino (110), Georgia (108), Isle of Man (108), Kosovo (108) and Macedonia (108). The lowest boys to girls birth sex ratios in 2016 were estimated by CIA for Nauru (83), Kazakhstan (94), Barbados (101), Haiti (101), Aruba (102), Bermuda (102), Cayman Islands (102), Kenya (102), Malawi (102), Mozambique (102), Puerto Rico (102), Qatar (102), Saint Kitts and Nevis (102), and South Africa (102).\n\nThe estimates for birth sex ratios, and thus derived sex-selective abortion, are a subject of dispute as well. For example, United States' CIA projects the birth sex ratio for Switzerland to be 106, while the Switzerland's Federal Statistical Office that tracks actual live births of boys and girls every year, reports the latest birth sex ratio for Switzerland as 107. Other variations are more significant; for example, CIA projects the birth sex ratio for Pakistan to be 105, United Nations FPA office claims the birth sex ratio for Pakistan to be 110, while the government of Pakistan claims its average birth sex ratio is 111.\n\nThe two most studied nations with high sex ratio and sex-selective abortion are China and India. The CIA estimates a birth sex ratio of 112 for both in recent years. However, The World Bank claims the birth sex ratio for China in 2009 was 120 boys for every 100 girls; while United Nations FPA estimates China's 2011 birth sex ratio to be 118.\n\nFor India, the United Nations FPA claims a birth sex ratio of 111 over 2008–10 period, while The World Bank and India's official 2011 Census reports a birth sex ratio of 108. These variations and data reliability is important as a rise from 108 to 109 for India, or 117 to 118 for China, each with large populations, represent a possible sex-selective abortion of about 100,000 girls.\n\nThe earliest post-implantation test, cell free fetal DNA testing, involves taking a blood sample from the mother and isolating the small amount of fetal DNA that can be found within it. When performed after week seven of pregnancy, this method is about 98% accurate.\n\nObstetric ultrasonography, either transvaginally or transabdominally, checks for various markers of fetal sex. It can be performed at or after week 12 of pregnancy. At this point, of fetal sexes can be correctly determined, according to a 2001 study. Accuracy for males is approximately 50% and for females almost 100%. When performed after week 13 of pregnancy, ultrasonography gives an accurate result in almost 100% of cases.\n\nThe most invasive measures are chorionic villus sampling (CVS) and amniocentesis, which involve testing of the chorionic villus (found in the placenta) and amniotic fluid, respectively. Both techniques typically test for chromosomal disorders but can also reveal the sex of the child and are performed early in the pregnancy. However, they are often more expensive and more dangerous than blood sampling or ultrasonography, so they are seen less frequently than other sex determination techniques.\n\nPrenatal sex determination is restricted in many countries, and so is the communication of the sex of the fetus to the pregnant woman or her family, in order to prevent sex selective abortion.\nIn India, prenatal sex determination is regulated under the Pre-conception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act 1994.\n\nChina launched its first ultrasonography machine in 1979. Chinese health care clinics began introducing ultrasound technologies that could be used to determine prenatal sex in 1982. By 1991, Chinese companies were producing 5,000 ultrasonography machines per year. Almost every rural and urban hospital and family planning clinics in China had a good quality sex discernment equipment by 2001.\n\nThe launch of ultrasonography technology in India too occurred in 1979, but its expansion was slower than China. Ultrasound sex discernment technologies were first introduced in major cities of India in the 1980s, its use expanded in India's urban regions in the 1990s, and became widespread in the 2000s.\n\nThe exact prevalence of sex-selective abortion is uncertain, with the practice taking place in some societies as an open secret, without formal data on its frequency. Some authors argue that it is quite difficult to explain why this practice takes place in some cultures and not others, and that sex-selective abortion cannot be explained merely by patriarchal social norms, because most societies are male dominated, but only a minority practice sex-selective abortion.\n\nChina, the most populous country in the world, has a serious problem with an unbalanced sex ratio population. A 2010 BBC article stated that the sex birth ratio was 119 boys born per 100 girls, which rose to 130 boys per 100 girls in some rural areas. The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences estimated that more than 24 million Chinese men of marrying age could find themselves without spouses by 2020. In 1979, China enacted the one child policy, which, within the country's deeply patriarchal culture, resulted in an unbalanced birth sex ratio. The one child policy was enforced very aggressively throughout the years, including through forced abortions and forced sterilizations, but it has been gradually loosened in recent years, and formally abolished in 2015. China's strong son preference is well documented in documentaries such as \"The Dying Rooms\" (1995) and \"\" (2012).\n\nWhen sex ratio began being studied in China in 1960, it was still within the normal range. However, it climbed to 111.9 by 1990 and to 118 by 2010 per its official census. Researchers believe that the causes of this sex ratio imbalance are increased female infant mortality, underreporting of female births and sex-selective abortion. According to Zeng et al. (1993), the most prominent cause is probably sex-selective abortion, but this is difficult to prove that in a country with little reliable birth data because of the hiding of \"illegal\" (under the One-Child Policy) births.\n\nThese illegal births have led to underreporting of female infants. Zeng et al., using a reverse survival method, estimate that underreporting keeps about 2.26% male births and 5.94% female births off the books. Adjusting for unreported illegal births, they conclude that the corrected Chinese sex ratio at birth for 1989 was 111 rather than 115. These national averages over time, mask the regional sex ratio data. For example, in some provinces such as Anhui, Jiangxi, Shaanxi, Hunan and Guangdong, sex ratio at birth is more than 130.\n\nTraditional Chinese techniques have been used to determine sex for hundreds of years, primarily with unknown accuracy. It was not until ultrasonography became widely available in urban and rural China that sex was able to be determined scientifically. In 1986, the Ministry of Health posted the Notice on Forbidding Prenatal Sex Determination, but it was not widely followed. Three years later, the Ministry of Health outlawed the use of sex determination techniques, except for in diagnosing hereditary diseases.\n\nHowever, many people have personal connections to medical practitioners and strong son preference still dominates culture, leading to the widespread use of sex determination techniques. According to Hardy, Gu, and Xie (2000), ultrasound has spread to all areas of China, as evidenced by the spread of the high sex ratio throughout the country.\n\nHardy, Gu, and Xie suggest sex-selective abortion is more prevalent in rural China because son preference is much stronger there. Urban areas of China, on average, are moving toward greater equality for both sexes, while rural China tends to follow more traditional views of gender. This is partially due to the belief that, while sons are always part of the family, daughters are only temporary, going to a new family when they marry. Additionally, if a woman's firstborn child is a son, her position in society moves up, while the same is not true of a firstborn daughter.\n\nIn the past, desire for a son was manifested by large birth rates—many couples would continue to have children until they had a son. However, the combination of financial concerns and, more importantly, the One-child policy (discussed further below) have led to an increase in gender planning and selection. Even in rural areas, most women know that ultrasonography can be used for gender discernment. For each subsequent birth, Junhong found that women are over 10% more likely to have an ultrasound (39% for firstborn, 55% for second born, 67% for third born). Additionally, he found that the sex of the firstborn child impacts whether a woman will have an ultrasound in her subsequent pregnancies: 40% of women with a firstborn son have an ultrasound for their second born child, versus 70% of women with firstborn daughters. This points to a strong desire to select for a son if one has not been born yet.\nBecause of the lack of data about childbirth, a number of researchers have worked to learn about abortion statistics in China. One of the earliest studies by Qui (1987) found that according to cultural belief, fetuses are not thought of as human beings until they are born, leading to a cultural preference for abortion over infanticide. In fact, infanticide and infant abandonment are rather rare in China today. Instead, Junhong found that roughly 27% of women have an abortion. Additionally, he found that if a family's firstborn was a girl, 92% of known female would-be second born fetuses were aborted.\n\nIn a 2005 study, Zhu, Lu, and Hesketh found that the highest sex ratio was for those ages 1–4, and two provinces, Tibet and Xinjiang, had sex ratios within normal limits. Two other provinces had a ratio over 140, four had ratios between 130-139, and seven had ratios between 120-129, each of which is significantly higher than the natural sex ratio.\n\nVariance in the one child policy has led to three types of provinces. Zhu et al. call Type 1, the most restrictive, policy where 40% of couples are permitted to have a second child but generally only if the first is a girl. In Type 2 provinces, any couple is permitted to have a second child if the first born is a girl or if the parents petition “hardship” and the petition is accepted by local officials. Type 3 provinces, typically sparsely populated, allow couples a second child and sometimes a third, irrespective of sex. Zhu et al. find that Type 2 provinces have the highest birth sex ratios, as seen in Henan, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hunan, Guangdong, and Hainan.\n\nHigh sex ratio trends in China is projected, by 2020, to create a pool of 55 million excess young adult men than women. According to Junhong, many males between the ages of 28 and 49 are unable to find a partner and thus remain unmarried. Families in China are aware of the critical lack of female children and its implication on marriage prospects in the future; many parents are beginning to work extra when their sons are young so that they will be able to pay for a bride for them.\n\nThe birth sex ratio in China, according to a 2012 news report, has decreased to 117 males born for every 100 females.\n\nThe ratios in China vary greatly by region, as can be seen below. The figures are from the intercensus survey of 2005, which was carried out in November 2005 on a representative 1% of the total population.\n\nIndia's 2001 census revealed a national 0–6 age child sex ratio of 108, which increased to 109 according to 2011 census (927 girls per 1000 boys and 919 girls per 1000 boys respectively, compared to expected normal ratio of 943 girls per 1000 boys). The national average masks the variations in regional numbers according to 2011 census—Haryana's ratio was 120, Punjab's ratio was 118, Jammu & Kashmir was 116, and Gujarat's ratio was 111. The 2011 Census found eastern states of India had birth sex ratios between 103 and 104, lower than normal. In contrast to decadal nationwide census data, small non-random sample surveys report higher child sex ratios in India.\n\nThe child sex ratio in India shows a regional pattern. India's 2011 census found that all eastern and southern states of India had a child sex ratio between 103 and 107, typically considered as the “natural ratio.” The highest sex ratios were observed in India's northern and northwestern states – Haryana (120), Punjab (118) and Jammu & Kashmir (116). The western states of Maharashtra and Rajasthan 2011 census found a child sex ratio of 113, Gujarat at 112 and Uttar Pradesh at 111.\n\nThe Indian census data suggests there is a positive correlation between abnormal sex ratio and better socio-economic status and literacy. Urban India has higher child sex ratio than rural India according to 1991, 2001 and 2011 Census data, implying higher prevalence of sex selective abortion in urban India. Similarly, child sex ratio greater than 115 boys per 100 girls is found in regions where the predominant majority is Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christian; furthermore \"normal\" child sex ratio of 104 to 106 boys per 100 girls are also found in regions where the predominant majority is Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christian. These data contradict any hypotheses that may suggest that sex selection is an archaic practice which takes place among uneducated, poor sections or particular religion of the Indian society.\n\nRutherford and Roy, in their 2003 paper, suggest that techniques for determining sex prenatally that were pioneered in the 1970s, gained popularity in India. These techniques, claim Rutherford and Roy, became broadly available in 17 of 29 Indian states by the early 2000s. Such prenatal sex determination techniques, claim Sudha and Rajan in a 1999 report, where available, favored male births.\n\nArnold, Kishor, and Roy, in their 2002 paper, too hypothesize that modern fetal sex screening techniques have skewed child sex ratios in India. Ganatra et al., in their 2000 paper, use a small survey sample to estimate that of reported abortions followed a sex determination test.\n\nMevlude Akbulut-Yuksel and Daniel Rosenblum, in their 2012 paper, find that despite numerous publications and studies, there is limited formal evidence on the effects of the continued spread of ultrasound technology on missing women in India. They conclude, contrary to common belief, that the recent rapid spread of ultrasound in India, from the 1990s through 2000s, did not cause a concomitant rise in sex-selection and prenatal female abortion.\n\nThe Indian government and various advocacy groups have continued the debate and discussion about ways to prevent sex selection. The immorality of prenatal sex selection has been questioned, with some arguments in favor of prenatal discrimination as more humane than postnatal discrimination by a family that does not want a female child. Others question whether the morality of sex selective abortion is any different over morality of abortion when there is no risk to the mother nor to the fetus, and abortion is used as a means to end an unwanted pregnancy?\n\nIndia passed its first abortion-related law, the so-called Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act of 1971, making abortion legal in most states, but specified legally acceptable reasons for abortion such as medical risk to mother and rape. The law also established physicians who can legally provide the procedure and the facilities where abortions can be performed, but did not anticipate sex selective abortion based on technology advances.\n\nWith increasing availability of sex screening technologies in India through the 1980s in urban India, and claims of its misuse, the Government of India passed the Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PNDT) in 1994. This law was further amended into the Pre-Conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) (PCPNDT) Act in 2004 to deter and punish prenatal sex screening and sex selective abortion. The impact of the law and its enforcement is unclear. United Nations Population Fund and India's National Human Rights Commission, in 2009, asked the Government of India to assess the impact of the law. The Public Health Foundation of India, an activist NGO in its 2010 report, claimed a lack of awareness about the Act in parts of India, inactive role of the Appropriate Authorities, ambiguity among some clinics that offer prenatal care services, and the role of a few medical practitioners in disregarding the law.\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of India has targeted education and media advertisements to reach clinics and medical professionals to increase awareness. The Indian Medical Association has undertaken efforts to prevent prenatal sex selection by giving its members \"Beti Bachao\" (save the daughter) badges during its meetings and conferences.\n\nIn November 2007, MacPherson estimated that 100,000 abortions every year continue to be performed in India solely because the fetus is female.\n\nOther countries with large populations but high sex ratios include Pakistan and Vietnam. United Nations Population Fund, in its 2012 report, claims the birth sex ratio of Vietnam at 111 with its densely populated Red River Delta region at 116; for Pakistan, the UN estimates the birth sex ratio to be 110. The urban regions of Pakistan, particularly its densely populated region of Punjab, report a sex ratio above 112 (less than 900 females per 1000 males). Hudson and Den Boer estimate the resulting deficit to be about 6 million missing girls in Pakistan than what would normally be expected. Three different research studies, according to Klausen and Wink, note that Pakistan had the world's highest percentage of missing girls, relative to its total pre-adult female population. Taiwan has reported a sex ratio at birth between 1.07 and 1.11 every year, across 4 million births, over the 20-year period from 1991 to 2011, with the highest birth sex ratios in the 2000s. Sex-selective abortion is reported to be common in South Korea too, but its incidence has declined in recent years. As of 2015, South Korea's sex ratio at birth was 1.07 male/female. In 2015, Hong Kong had a sex ratio at birth of 1.12 male/female. A 2001 study on births in the late 1990s concluded that \"sex selection or sex-selective abortion might be practiced among Hong Kong Chinese women\".\n\nRecently, a rise in the sex ratio at birth has been noted in some parts of Nepal, most notably in the Kathmandu Valley, but also in districts such as Kaski. High sex ratios at birth are most notable amongst richer, more educated sections of the population in urban areas.\n\nAbnormal sex ratios at birth, possibly explained by growing incidence of sex-selective abortion, have also been noted in some other countries outside South and East Asia. According to the 2011 CIA estimates, countries with more than 110 males per 100 females at birth also include Albania and former Soviet republics of Armenia and Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Caucasus has been named a \"male-dominated region\", and as families have become smaller in recent years, the pressures to have sons has increased. Before the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, the birth sex ratio in Caucasus countries such as Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia was in the 105 to 108 range. After the collapse, the birth sex ratios sharply climbed and have remained high for the last 20 years. Christian Armenia and Georgia, as well as Islamic Azerbaijan have seen strongly imbalanced birth sex ratios in the first decade of the 21st century. In Georgia, the birth sex ratio for the years 2005–2009 was about 120, a trend \"The Economist\" claims suggests that the practice of sex-selective abortion in the Caucasus has been similar to those in East Asia and South Asia in recent decades.\n\nFor 2005–10 birth data, the sex ratio in Armenia is seen to be a function of birth order. Among couples having their first child, Armenia averages 138 boys for every 100 girls every year. If the first child is a son, the sex ratio of the second child of Armenian couple averages to be 85. If the first child is a daughter, the sex ratio of the second Armenian child averages to be 156 boys for 100 girls. Overall, the birth sex ratio for in Armenia exceeds 115, far higher than India's 108, claim scholars. While these high birth sex ratios suggest sex-selective abortion, there is no direct evidence of observed large-scale sex-selective abortions in Caucasus.\n\nAn imbalanced birth sex ratio has been present in the 21st century in the Western Balkans, in countries such as Albania, Macedonia, Kosovo and Montenegro. As of 2016, according to CIA estimates, Albania has one the highest birth sex imbalances in the world, at 110. According to Eurostat and birth record data over 2008–11, the birth sex ratios of Albania and Montenegro for that period were 112 and 110 respectively. In recent years, the birth registration data for Macedonia and Kosovo indicate birth sex ratios above 108; for example, in 2011 the birth sex ratio was 108 in Macedonia, while in 2010 the birth sex ratio for Kosovo was 112. In recent years, Montenegrin health authorities have expressed concern with regard to the significant imbalance between the number of male and female births.\nScholars claim this suggests that sex-selective abortions are becoming common in southeast Europe.\n\nLike in other countries, sex-selective abortion is difficult to track in the United States because of lack of data.\n\nWhile the majority of parents in United States do not practice sex-selective abortion, there is certainly a trend toward male preference. According to a 2011 Gallup poll, if they were only allowed to have one child, 40% of respondents said they would prefer a boy, while only 28% preferred a girl. When told about prenatal sex selection techniques such as sperm sorting and in vitro fertilization embryo selection, 40% of Americans surveyed thought that picking embryos by sex was an acceptable manifestation of reproductive rights. These selecting techniques are available at about half of American fertility clinics, as of 2006.\n\nHowever, it is notable that minority groups that immigrate into the United States bring their cultural views and mindsets into the country with them. A study carried out at a Massachusetts infertility clinic shows that the majority of couples using these techniques, such as Preimplantation genetic diagnosis came from a Chinese or Asian background. This is thought to branch from the social importance of giving birth to male children in China and other Asian countries.\n\nA study of the 2000 United States Census suggests possible male bias in families of Chinese, Korean and Indian immigrants, which was getting increasingly stronger in families where first one or two children were female. In those families where the first two children were girls, the birth sex ratio of the third child was 151.\n\nBecause of this movement toward sex preference and selection, many bans on sex-selective abortion have been proposed at the state and federal level. In 2010 and 2011, sex-selective abortions were banned in Oklahoma and Arizona, respectively. Legislators in Georgia, West Virginia, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, and New York have also tried to pass acts banning the procedure.\n\nA 2013 study by John Bongaarts based on surveys in 61 major countries calculates the sex ratios that would result if parents had the number of sons and daughters they want. In 35 countries, claims Bongaarts, the desired birth sex ratio in respective countries would be more than 110 boys for every 100 girls if parents in these countries had a child matching their preferred gender (higher than India's, which The Economist claims is 108).\n\nEstimates of implied missing girls, considering the \"normal\" birth sex ratio to be the 103–107 range, vary considerably between researchers and underlying assumptions for expected post-birth mortality rates for men and women. For example, a 2005 study estimated that over 90 million females were \"missing\" from the expected population in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, India, Pakistan, South Korea and Taiwan alone, and suggested that sex-selective abortion plays a role in this deficit. For early 1990s, Sen estimated 107 million missing women, Coale estimated 60 million as missing, while Klasen estimated 89 million missing women in China, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, West Asia and Egypt. Guilmoto, in his 2010 report, uses recent data (except for Pakistan), and estimates a much lower number of missing girls, but notes that the higher sex ratios in numerous countries have created a gender gap – shortage of girls – in the 0–19 age group.\n\nAlthough there is significant evidence of the prevalence of sex-selective abortions in many nations (especially India and China), there is also evidence to suggest that some of the variation in global sex ratios is due to disparate access to resources. As MacPherson (2007) notes, there can be significant differences in gender violence and access to food, healthcare, immunizations between male and female children. This leads to high infant and childhood mortality among girls, which causes changes in sex ratio.\n\nDisparate, gendered access to resources appears to be strongly linked to socioeconomic status. Specifically, poorer families are sometimes forced to ration food, with daughters typically receiving less priority than sons (Klasen and Wink 2003). However, Klasen's 2001 study revealed that this practice is less common in the poorest families, but rises dramatically in the slightly less poor families. Klasen and Wink's 2003 study suggests that this is \"related to greater female economic independence and fewer cultural strictures among the poorest sections of the population\". In other words, the poorest families are typically less bound by cultural expectations and norms, and women tend to have more freedom to become family breadwinners out of necessity.\n\nIncreased sex ratios can be caused by disparities in aspects of life other than vital resources. According to Sen (1990), differences in wages and job advancement also have a dramatic effect on sex ratios. This is why high sex ratios are sometimes seen in nations with little sex-selective abortion. Additionally, high female education rates are correlated with lower sex ratios (World Bank 2011).\n\nLopez and Ruzikah (1983) found that, when given the same resources, women tend to outlive men at all stages of life after infancy. However, globally, resources are not always allocated equitably. Thus, some scholars argue that disparities in access to resources such as healthcare, education, and nutrition play at least a small role in the high sex ratios seen in some parts of the world (Klasen and Wink 2003). For example, Alderman and Gerter (1997) found that unequal access to healthcare is a primary cause of female death in developing nations, especially in Southeast Asia. Moreover, in India, lack of equal access to healthcare has led to increased disease and higher rates of female mortality in every age group until the late thirties (Sen 1990). This is particularly noteworthy because, in regions of the world where women receive equal resources, women tend to outlive men (Sen 1990). Women outlive men in all but 2 countries.\n\nEconomic disadvantage alone may not always lead to increased sex ratio, claimed Sen in 1990. For example, in sub-Saharan Africa, one of the most economically disadvantaged regions of the world, there is an excess of women. So, if economic disadvantage is uncorrelated with sex ratio in Africa, some other factor(s) may be at play. More detailed analysis of African demographics, in 2002, suggests that Africa too has wide variation in birth sex ratios (from 1.01 in Bantu populations of East Africa to 1.08 in Nigeria and Ethiopia). Thus economic disadvantage remains a possible unresolved hypothesis for Africa as well.\n\nVarious theories have been proposed as possible reasons for sex-selective abortion. Culture rather than economic conditions is favored by some researchers because such deviations in sex ratios do not exist in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Other hypotheses include disparate gender-biased access to resources, and attempts to control population growth such as using one child policy.\n\nSome demographers question whether sex-selective abortion or infanticide claims are accurate, because underreporting of female births may also explain high sex ratios. Natural reasons may also explain some of the abnormal sex ratios. In contrast to these possible causes of abnormal sex ratio, Klasen and Wink suggest India and China's high sex ratios are primarily the result of sex-selective abortion.\n\nThe reason for intensifying sex-selection abortion in China and India can be seen through history and cultural background. Generally, before the information era, male babies were preferred because they provided manual labor and continuation of the family lineage. Labor is still important in developing nations as China and India, but when it comes to family lineage, it is of great importance.\n\nThe selective abortion of female fetuses is most common in areas where cultural norms value male children over female children for a variety of social and economic reasons. A son is often preferred as an \"asset\" since he can earn and support the family; a daughter is a \"liability\" since she will be married off to another family, and so will not contribute financially to her parents. Sex selective female abortion is a continuation, in a different form, of a practice of female infanticide or withholding of postnatal health care for girls in certain households. Furthermore, in some cultures sons are expected to take care of their parents in their old age. These factors are complicated by the effect of diseases on child sex ratio, where communicable and noncommunicable diseases affect males and females differently. In parts of India and Pakistan, there are social norms such as purdah, which stipulate that female seclusion and confinement to the home is necessary. Such practices are prevalent among some Muslim and Hindu communities in South Asia. When females interact with men, or are believed to do so, the \"family honor\" is tarnished.\n\nHistorically, in many South Asian populations, women were allocated a very low status, evidenced through practices such as sati, an ancient funeral custom where a widow immolated herself on her husband's pyre or committed suicide in another fashion shortly after her husband's death. Such societies, in placing almost no value on females, encouraged parents to commit infanticide of girls or to abandon them. The modern practice of sex-selective abortion is therefore a continuation of other historical practices. During the 19th century, in the Northwest British India, one-fourth of the population preserved only half the daughters, while other 3/4th of the population had balanced sex ratio. There were 118 males per 100 females. This is comparable to the contemporary sex ratio in the area, now divided between India and Pakistan.\n\nChinese culture is deeply patriarchal. Pre-modern Chinese society was predominantly patriarchal and patrilineal from at least the 11th century BCE onwards. There has long been a son preference in China, leading to high rates of female infanticide, as well as a strong tradition of restricting the freedom of movement of women, particularly upper class women, manifested through the practice of foot binding. Although the legal and social standing of women have greatly improved in the 20th century, son preference remains still strong, and the situation was aggravated by the one child policy.\n\nInterpretations of Confucianism have been argued to contribute to the low status of women. The gender roles prescribed in the Three Obediences and Four Virtues became a cornerstone of the family, and thus, societal stability. Starting from the Han period, Confucians began to teach that a virtuous woman was supposed to follow the males in her family: the father before her marriage, the husband after she marries, and her sons in widowhood. In the later dynasties, more emphasis was placed on the virtue of chastity. The Song dynasty Confucian Cheng Yi stated that: \"To starve to death is a small matter, but to lose one's chastity is a great matter.\" The \"cult of chastity\" accordingly, condemned many widows to poverty and loneliness by placing a social stigma on remarriage.\n\nIn modern East Asia, a large part of the pattern of preferences leading to this practice can be condensed simply as a desire to have a male heir. Monica Das Gupta (2005) observes, from 1989 birth data for China, there was no evidence of selective abortion of female fetuses among firstborn children. However, there was a strong preference for a boy if the first born was a girl.\n\nDowry is the property that parents of a female transfer at her marriage. Dowry is an ancient practice, that has been common in many cultures around the world, and which is today prevalent especially in South Asia. The custom of dowry is most common in cultures that are strongly patrilineal and that expect women to reside with or near their husband's family (patrilocality).\n\nKirti Singh states that dowry is widely considered to be both a cause and a consequence of son preference, and this may lead to girls being unwanted, sex selective abortion, female infanticide or abuse of female children.\n\nThe dowry system in India is a major part of Indian culture and refers to the durable goods, cash, and real or movable property that the bride's family gives to the bridegroom, his parents, or his relatives as a condition of the marriage. Dowry consists of a payment in cash or some kind of gifts given to the bridegroom's family along with the bride and includes cash, jewelry, electrical appliances, furniture, bedding, crockery, utensils and other household items that help the newlyweds set up their home. Disputes regarding dowry sometimes lead to dowry deaths.\n\nFollowing the 1949 creation of the People's Republic of China, the issue of population control came into the national spotlight. In the early years of the Republic, leaders believed that telling citizens to reduce their fertility was enough, repealing laws banning contraception and instead promoting its use. However, the contraceptives were not widely available, both because of lack of supply and because of cultural taboo against discussing sex. Efforts were slowed following the famine of 1959–61 but were resumed shortly thereafter with virtually the same results. Then, in 1964, the Family Planning Office was established to enforce stricter guidelines regarding fertility and it was moderately successful.\n\nIn 1979, the government adopted the One-Child Policy, which limited many families to one child, unless specified by provincial regulations. It was instituted as an attempt to boost the Chinese economy. Under it, families who break rules regarding the number of children they are allowed are given various punishments (primarily monetary), dependent upon the province in which they live.\n\nAs stated above, the sex ratios of a province are largely determined by the type of restriction placed upon the family, pointing to the conclusion that much of the imbalance in sex ratio in China can be attributed to the policy. Research by Junhong (2001) found that many parents are willing to pay to ensure that their child is male (especially if their first child is female), but will not do the same to ensure their child is female. Likely, fear of the harsh monetary punishments of the One-Child Policy make ensuring a son's birth a smart investment. Therefore, son's cultural and economic importance to families and the large expenses associated with multiple children are primary factors leading to China's disparate sex ratio.\n\nIn 2013, China announced plans to formally change the One-Child policy, making it less stringent. The National People's Congress has changed the policy to allow couples to have two children, so long as one of the partners is an only child. This change was not sparked by sex ratios, but rather by an aging population that is causing the workforce to become increasingly smaller. It is estimated that this new law will lead to two million more births per year and could cause a baby boom in China. In 2015, China officially relaxed its one child law. Unfortunately, many of China's social problems are based on overpopulation. So, it is unclear if this new law will actually lead to women being more valued in Chinese society as the number of citizens increases.\n\nThe Trivers–Willard hypothesis argues that available resources affect male reproductive success more than female and that consequently parents should prefer males when resources are plentiful and females when resources are scarce. This has been applied to resource differences between individuals in a society and also to resource differences between societies. Empirical evidence is mixed with higher support in better studies according to Cronk in a 2007 review. One example, in a 1997 study, of a group with a preference for females was Romani in Hungary, a low status group. They \"had a female-biased sex ratio at birth, were more likely to abort a fetus after having had one or more daughters, nursed their daughters longer, and sent their daughters to school for longer.\"\n\nThe idea of “missing women” was first suggested by Amartya Sen, one of the first scholars to study high sex ratios and their causes globally, in 1990. In order to illustrate the gravity of the situation, he calculated the number of women that were not alive because of sex-selective abortion or discriminatory practices. He found that there were 11 percent fewer women than there “should” have been, if China had the natural sex ratio. This figure, when combined with statistics from around the world, led to a finding of over 100 million missing women. In other words, by the early 1990s, the number of missing women was “larger than the combined casualties of all famines in the twentieth century” (Sen 1990).\n\nThis has led to particular concern due to a critical shortage of wives. In some rural areas, there is already a shortage of women, which is tied to migration into urban areas (Park and Cho 1995). In South Korea and Taiwan, high male sex ratios and declining birth rates over several decades have led to cross-cultural marriage between local men and foreign women from countries such as mainland China, Vietnam and the Philippines. However, sex-selective abortion is not the only cause of this phenomenon; it is also related to migration and declining fertility.\n\nSome scholars argue that as the proportion of women to men decreases globally, there will be an increase in trafficking and sex work (both forced and self-elected), as many men will be willing to do more to obtain a sexual partner (Junhong 2001). Already, there are reports of women from Vietnam, Myanmar, and North Korea systematically trafficked to mainland China and Taiwan and sold into forced marriages. Moreover, Ullman and Fidell (1989) suggested that pornography and sex-related crimes of violence (i.e., rape and molestation) would also increase with an increasing sex ratio.\n\nAs Park and Cho (1995) note, families in areas with high sex ratios that have mostly sons tend to be smaller than those with mostly daughters (because the families with mostly sons appear to have used sex-selective techniques to achieve their “ideal” composition). Particularly in poor areas, large families tend to have more problems with resource allocation, with daughters often receiving fewer resources than sons. Blake (1989) is credited for noting the relationship between family size and childhood “quality.” Therefore, if families with daughters continue to be predominantly large, it is likely that the social gap between genders will widen due to traditional cultural discrimination and lack of resource availability.\n\nGuttentag and Secord (1983) hypothesized that when the proportion of males throughout the world is greater, there is likely to be more violence and war.\n\nSome scholars believe that when sex ratios are high, women actually become valued more because of their relative shortage. Park and Cho (1995) suggest that as women become more scarce, they may have “increased value for conjugal and reproductive functions” (75). Eventually, this could lead to better social conditions, followed by the birth of more women and sex ratios moving back to natural levels. This claim is supported by the work of demographer Nathan Keifitz. Keifitz (1983) wrote that as women become fewer, their relative position in society will increase. However, to date, no data has supported this claim.\n\nIt has been suggested by Belanger (2002) that sex-selective abortion may have positive effects on the mother choosing to abort the female fetus. This is related to the historical duty of mothers to produce a son in order to carry on the family name. As previously mentioned, women gain status in society when they have a male child, but not when they have a female child. Oftentimes, bearing of a son leads to greater legitimacy and agency for the mother. In some regions of the world where son preference is especially strong, sonless women are treated as outcasts. In this way, sex-selective abortion is a way for women to select for male fetuses, helping secure greater family status.\n\nGoodkind (1999) argues that sex-selective abortion should not be banned purely because of its discriminatory nature. Instead, he argues, we must consider the overall lifetime possibilities of discrimination. In fact, it is possible that sex-selective abortion takes away much of the discrimination women would face later in life. Since families have the option of selecting for the fetal sex they desire, if they choose not to abort a female fetus, she is more likely to be valued later in life. In this way, sex-selective abortion may be a more humane alternative to infanticide, abandonment, or neglect. Goodkind (1999) poses an essential philosophical question, “if a ban were enacted against prenatal sex testing (or the use of abortion for sex-selective purposes), how many excess postnatal deaths would a society be willing to tolerate in lieu of whatever sex-selective abortions were avoided?”\n\nMacPherson estimates that 100,000 sex-selective abortions every year continue to be performed in India. For a contrasting perspective, in the United States with a population th of India, over 1.2 million abortions every year were performed between 1990 and 2007. In England and Wales with a population th of India, over 189,000 abortions were performed in 2011, or a yearly rate of 17.5 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–44. The average for the European Union was 30 abortions per year per 1,000 women.\n\nMany scholars have noted the difficulty in reconciling the discriminatory nature of sex-selective abortion with the right of women to have control over their own bodies. This conflict manifests itself primarily when discussing laws about sex-selective abortion. Weiss (1995:205) writes: \"The most obvious challenge sex-selective abortion represents for pro-choice feminists is the difficulty of reconciling a pro-choice position with moral objections one might have to sex selective abortion (especially since it has been used primarily on female fetuses), much less the advocacy of a law banning sex-selective abortion.\"\nAs a result, arguments both for and against sex-selective abortion are typically highly reflective of one's own personal beliefs about abortion in general. Warren (1985:104) argues that there is a difference between acting within one's rights and acting upon the most morally sound choice, implying that sex-selective abortion might be within rights but not morally sound. Warren also notes that, if we are to ever reverse the trend of sex-selective abortion and high sex ratios, we must work to change the patriarchy-based society which breeds the strong son preference.\n\nLaws against sex-selective abortion, especially those that exist in some U.S. states, are controversial, because it is not clear how they can be enforced, and pro-choice activists argue that such laws are brought by anti-abortion movement forces who are using this as a pretext to restrict women's access to safe and legal abortion and to harass doctors who perform abortions: NARAL states that \"For many years, anti-choice lawmakers have tried to ban abortion using every possible reason and excuse –including, now, on the grounds of purported concern about race or sex selection.\" There is concern that such bans may put women who seek sex-selective abortions in danger because they may seek unsafe abortions, and that these bans do not address the root cause of sex-selective abortion, including the pregnant women's fear that they or their future daughters will suffer abuse, violence and stigmatization.\n\nThe practice of prenatal sex selection has been condemned internationally. It is often seen as a result of discriminatory social views which consider females inferior to males. In 1994 over 180 states signed the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, agreeing to \"eliminate all forms of discrimination against the girl child\". In 2011 the resolution of PACE's Committee on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men condemned the practice of prenatal sex selection.\n\nMany nations have attempted to address sex-selective abortion rates through a combination of media campaigns and policy initiatives.\n\nIn Canada, a group of MPs led by Mark Warawa are working on having the Parliament pass a resolution condemning sex-selective pregnancy termination.\n\nThe United States Congress has debated legislation that would outlaw the practice. The legislation ultimately failed to pass in the House of Representatives.\n\nOn the state level, laws against sex-selective abortions have been passed in a number of U.S. states; the law passed in Arizona in 2011 prohibits both sex-selective and race-selective abortion.\n\nThe law on sex-selective abortion is unresolved in the United Kingdom. In order for an abortion to be legal, doctors need to show that continuing the pregnancy could threaten the physical or mental health of the mother. In a recent case, two doctors were caught on camera offering a sex-selective abortion but the Director of Public Prosecution deemed it not in the public interest to proceed with the prosecution. Following this incidence, MPs voted 181 to 1 for a Bill put forward by Tessa Munt and 11 other MPs aiming to end confusion about the legality of this practice. Organisations such as BPAS and Abortion Rights have been lobbying for the decriminalisation of sex-selective abortions.\n\nChina's government has increasingly recognized its role in a reduction of the national sex ratio. As a result, since 2005, it has sponsored a “boys and girls are equal campaign.” For example, in 2000, the Chinese government began the “Care for Girls” Initiative. Furthermore, several levels of government have been modified to protect the “political, economic, cultural, and social” rights of women. Finally, the Chinese government has enacted policies and interventions to help reduce the sex ratio at birth. In 2005, sex-selective abortion was made illegal in China. This came in response to the ever-increasing sex ratio and a desire to try to detract from it and reach a more normal ratio. The sex ratio among firstborn children in urban areas from 2000 to 2005 didn't rise at all, so there is hope that this movement is taking hold across the nation.\n\nUNICEF and UNFPA have partnered with the Chinese government and grassroots-level women's groups such as All China Women's Federation to promote gender equality in policy and practice, as well engage various social campaigns to help lower birth sex ratio and to reduce excess female child mortality rates.\n\nIn India, according to a 2007 study by MacPherson, Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PCPNDT Act) was highly publicized by NGOs and the government. Many of the ads used depicted abortion as violent, creating fear of abortion itself within the population. The ads focused on the religious and moral shame associated with abortion. MacPherson claims this media campaign was not effective because some perceived this as an attack on their character, leading to many becoming closed off, rather than opening a dialogue about the issue. This emphasis on morality, claims MacPherson, increased fear and shame associated with all abortions, leading to an increase in unsafe abortions in India.\n\nThe government of India, in a 2011 report, has begun better educating all stakeholders about its MTP and PCPNDT laws. In its communication campaigns, it is clearing up public misconceptions by emphasizing that sex determination is illegal, but abortion is legal for certain medical conditions in India. The government is also supporting implementation of programs and initiatives that seek to reduce gender discrimination, including media campaign to address the underlying social causes of sex selection.\n\nOther recent policy initiatives adopted by numerous states of India, claims Guilmoto, attempt to address the assumed economic disadvantage of girls by offering support to girls and their parents. These policies provide conditional cash transfer and scholarships only available to girls, where payments to a girl and her parents are linked to each stage of her life, such as when she is born, completion of her childhood immunization, her joining school at grade 1, her completing school grades 6, 9 and 12, her marriage past age 21. Some states are offering higher pension benefits to parents who raise one or two girls. Different states of India have been experimenting with various innovations in their girl-driven welfare policies. For example, the state of Delhi adopted a pro-girl policy initiative (locally called \"Laadli scheme\"), which initial data suggests may be lowering the birth sex ratio in the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "10033263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10033263", "title": "Sextus Aelius Paetus Catus", "text": "Sextus Aelius Paetus Catus\n\nSextus Aelius Paetus Catus (fl. 198-194 BC) or Sextus Aelius Q.f. Paetus Catus (or \"the clever one\"), was a Roman Republican consul, elected in 198 BC. Today, he is best known for his interpretation of the laws of the Twelve Tables, which is known to us only through the praise of Cicero. Paetus Catus came from a prominent plebeian noble family; his father was a praetor, and his elder brother was another consul, Publius Aelius Paetus.\n\nSextus Aelius Paetus was apparently the younger surviving son of Quintus Aelius Paetus, a praetor who was one of the many Roman senators killed at Cannae in August 216 BC. Other members of the gens Aelia who rose to high office included Publius Aelius Paetus, who was consul in 337 BC, and Gaius Aelius Paetus, consul in 286 BC.. Both earlier consuls may have been ancestors, or collateral kinsmen, but the connection is not mentioned by the Roman historian Livy.\n\nPaetus's elder brother became Master of the Horse in 202, and consul in the following year. Other members of the family, including Publius's son, succeeded to the consulship in later years.\n\nLittle is known of Paetus Catus's political career, or how he acquired the additional cognomen of \"Catus\". Livy mentions that he was curule aedile in 200 BC, when he imported grain from Africa.\n\nAccording to an Oxford dictionary of Roman jurists, Paetus Catus's rapid rise from curule aedile to the consulship and censorship was not due to his father's death or his elder brother's successes, but his aptitude for the law. He was apparently nicknamed “catus” meaning “clever” or \"the clever one\" in recognition of his legal skills. Catus may have given up other aspects of his public career (he is not mentioned in any military action by Livy) to devote his time to the study of law. The Oxford dictionary believes that he may have been the first professional jurist in the history of Rome. (It is not clear if earlier jurists were not professional, or were part-timers, but a Roman paterfamilias of rank and status, or his grown sons, would be expected to defend his family's clients in legal matters. Perhaps the Punic war meant that too many such patrons were away from Rome, and unable to handle legal matters).\n\nHis brother Publius Aelius Paetus had been consul three years earlier in 201, and was elected censor 199. Publius's success may have helped Sextus to the consulship in 198, but he was overshadowed by his younger and eventually more famous patrician colleague, Titus Quinctius T.f. Flamininus, then aged only thirty.\n\nSextus did not distinguish himself militarily during his consulship, with all honours, including the Macedonian/Greek campaigns, going to his much younger colleague Flamininus. His own efforts in his assigned province were not marked with much success. However, he was still elected censor in 194 with Gaius Cornelius Cethegus, possibly out of respect for his skills as a jurist, possibly out of respect for his elder brother, a former censor.\n\nAelius Paetus and his brother Publius were both apparently jurists. Sextus was author of a work, \"Commentaria tripartita\" or \"tripertita \", which systematically set out each provision of the Twelve Tables, provided a commentary, and then discussed a relevant action-at-law for each provision. Another work called \"Ius Aelianum\" discussed actions-at-law only. The former work was praised by no less a judge than Cicero, and was evidently extant during the lifetime of his friend Titus Pomponius Atticus who refers to it. When the work disappeared is unknown.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30151814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30151814", "title": "SkQ", "text": "SkQ\n\nSkQ (10-(6'-Plastoquinonyl)decyltriphenyl-phosphonium) stands for a class of organic molecules composed of a large organic cation that are proposed to target molecules attached to them to mitochondria.\n\n"}
{"id": "26666011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26666011", "title": "Square knot (mathematics)", "text": "Square knot (mathematics)\n\nIn knot theory, the square knot is a composite knot obtained by taking the connected sum of a trefoil knot with its reflection. It is closely related to the granny knot, which is also a connected sum of two trefoils. Because the trefoil knot is the simplest nontrivial knot, the square knot and the granny knot are the simplest of all composite knots.\n\nThe square knot is the mathematical version of the common reef knot.\n\nThe square knot can be constructed from two trefoil knots, one of which must be left-handed and the other right-handed. Each of the two knots is cut, and then the loose ends are joined together pairwise. The resulting connected sum is the square knot.\n\nIt is important that the original trefoil knots be mirror images of one another. If two identical trefoil knots are used instead, the result is a granny knot.\n\nThe square knot is amphichiral, meaning that it is indistinguishable from its own mirror image. The crossing number of a square knot is six, which is the smallest possible crossing number for a composite knot.\n\nThe Alexander polynomial of the square knot is\n\nwhich is simply the square of the Alexander polynomial of a trefoil knot. Similarly, the Alexander–Conway polynomial of a square knot is\n\nThese two polynomials are the same as those for the granny knot. However, the Jones polynomial for the square knot is\n\nThis is the product of the Jones polynomials for the right-handed and left-handed trefoil knots, and is different from the Jones polynomial for a granny knot.\n\nThe knot group of the square knot is given by the presentation\n\nThis is isomorphic to the knot group of the granny knot, and is the simplest example of two different knots with isomorphic knot groups.\n\nUnlike the granny knot, the square knot is a ribbon knot, and it is therefore also a slice knot.\n"}
{"id": "332042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332042", "title": "Strappado", "text": "Strappado\n\nThe strappado, also known as corda, is a form of torture wherein the victim's hands are tied behind his or her back and suspended by a rope attached to the wrists, typically resulting in dislocated shoulders. Weights may be added to the body to intensify the effect and increase the pain. This kind of torture would generally not last more than an hour, without rest, as it would likely result in death.\n\nOther names for strappado include \"reverse hanging\", \"Palestinian hanging\" (because of its alleged use by Israel against Palestinians) and \"il tormento della corda\". Historically, it was used by the medieval Inquisition and many governments, such as the civil law court (1543–1798) of the Order of St. John at the Castellania in Valletta, Malta.\n\nThe proper strappado causes permanent visible damage. Pain and resistance are different from person to person, generally due to the weight of the person himself/herself or the weight attached. It is not, as Samuel Johnson erroneously entered in his dictionary, a \"chastisement by blows\".\n\nThere are three variants of this torture. In the first, victims have their arms tied behind their backs; a large rope is then tied to the wrists and passed over a pulley, beam, or a hook on the roof. The torturer pulls on this rope until the victim is hanging from the arms. Since the hands are tied behind the victim's back, this will cause a very intense pain and possible dislocation of the arms. The full weight of the subject's body is then supported by the extended and internally rotated shoulder sockets. While the technique shows no external injuries, it can cause long-term nerve, ligament, or tendon damage. The technique typically causes brachial plexus injury, leading to paralysis or loss of sensation in the arms.\n\nThe second variation, known as squassation, is similar to the first, but a series of drops are added, meaning that the victim is allowed to drop until his or her fall is suddenly checked by the rope. In addition to the damage caused by the suspension, the painful jerk would cause major stress to the extended and vulnerable arms, leading to broken shoulders. It is believed that Niccolò Machiavelli, during his 1513 imprisonment after allegedly conspiring against the Medici family in Florence, was subjected to this form of strappado.\n\nIn the third variant, the victim's hands are tied to the front. The victim is also hung from the hands, but the ankles are tied and a heavy weight is attached to them. This will cause pain and possible damage not only to the arms, but also to the legs and hips.\n\nAccording to William Godwin, Girolamo Savonarola was tortured by strappado multiple times before being put to death in a trial by ordeal (fire); Savonarola, however, apparently renounced his confessions after being tortured, which eventually led to his sentence of burning at the stake.\nThis device was thought to be used during the Salem Witch Trials of Salem, Massachusetts in 1692 to torture accused witches.\n\nIn the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, prisoners were punished by having their hands tied behind their back, and then being suspended on a pole with their feet just above the ground for half an hour. This was also systematically used in Dachau Concentration Camp for infringement of camp rules. Originally the punishment used tree branches, but it was moved into a shower room on special poles so that victims could not relieve the pain as they could by using the tree. Holocaust survivor Jean Améry writes of his own experiences of strappado when being tortured at the Nazi concentration camp of Fort Breendonk in occupied Belgium. Améry's analytical descriptions of the torture were included in a number of works by the writer W. G. Sebald (notably the novel \"Austerlitz\").\n\nThe \"ropes\" was one of several torture methods employed at the Hỏa Lò Prison, popularly known as the Hanoi Hilton. The site was used by the North Vietnamese Army to house, torture and interrogate captured servicemen, mostly American airmen shot down during bombing raids (including USAF officer Joseph Kittinger, and US Navy pilot [and later US Senator] John McCain). The aim of the torture was usually not acquiring military information; rather, it was to break the will of the prisoners, both individually and as a group, and to get written or recorded statements from the prisoners who criticized U.S. conduct of the war and praised how the North Vietnamese treated them.\n\nAccording to a 1997 Human Rights Watch report, this technique was \"widely employed\" by the security forces of Turkey, where it is \"usually used together with high-pressure water, electric shock, beating, or sexual molestation such as squeezing the testicles or breast or placing a nightstick against or in the vagina or anus\". In 1996, the European Court of Human Rights found Turkey guilty of torture for its use of reverse hanging. Turkey has been admonished by Amnesty International and other international human rights groups concerning the use of the technique.\n\nIn 2003, one of the Bulgarian nurses interrogated during the HIV trial in Libya, Snezhana Dimitrova, stated that she had been tortured in this way.\n\nThey tied my hands behind my back. Then they hung me from a door. It feels like they are stretching you from all sides. My torso was twisted and my shoulders were dislocated from their joints from time to time. The pain cannot be described. The translator was shouting, \"Confess or you will die here\".\n\nIn November 2003, Manadel al-Jamadi, a suspected terrorist, was tortured to death at Abu Ghraib Prison during a Central Intelligence Agency interrogation. It was revealed in February 2005 that he had died after 30 minutes of interrogation during which he was suspended by the wrist, bound behind his back. \n\nIn 2017, video footage was released of Iraqi Army members inflicting strappado torture following successes in the Battle of Mosul.\n"}
{"id": "3086199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3086199", "title": "Surinder Kapoor", "text": "Surinder Kapoor\n\nSurinder Kapoor (23 December 1925 – 24 September 2011) was an Indian film producer. He produced Bollywood films and also served as President of the Film & Television Producers Guild of India from 1995 to 2001. He was born in Peshawar, British India (in present-day Pakistan). Surinder Kapoor belonged to a Punjabi Hindu family from Peshawar.\n\nPrithviraj Kapoor, the famous Bollywood actor and a distant cousin, is the one who invited Surinder Kapoor to Bombay to join the Hindi Film Industry. He started his film career as a secretary to Hindi film star of the 1950s Geeta Bali. The Dada Saheb Phalke Academy honoured him with the Shri L V Prasad Phalke award in 2009. When asked in an interview, how he established S.K.International Films, he quoted in an interview \"Rajesh Khanna who played the title-role in Shehzada was truly of a princely disposition. He started shooting for me without ever discussing the price, saying that we could settle that once the film is made, he said and made banner S. K. International Films became an acknowledged company.\" His first successful film in Hindi as a producer was Shehzada directed by K. Shankar which was a remake of Tamil film Idhu Sathiyam (1963). However, Surinder's subsequent release Phool Khile Hain Gulshan Gulshan (film) and Bikash Rao were flops, due to which he went into huge debts. Later as a producer in 1980's he made good money with his productions, which were remakes of Kannada, Tamil or Telugu films like Hum Paanch, Woh Saat Din, Loafer, \"Judaai\", \"Sirf Tum\", Hamara Dil Aapke Paas Hai, \"Pukar\", No Entry - all of them starring his son Anil Kapoor in the lead.\n\nHe died after suffering a cardiac arrest on 24 September 2011.\n\nHis three sons, Boney, Anil and Sanjay, are also involved in the film industry. Anil Kapoor is a successful Bollywood actor. His daughter-in-law Sridevi married to his eldest son Boney was a famous Bollywood actress. His daughter, Reena, is married to Sandeep Marwah of Marwah Films & Video Studios. Boney is a well known and a famous Producer and Sanjay acted in several movies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53054853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53054853", "title": "The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia", "text": "The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\n\nThe Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia is a 2006 book by Neil Gorsuch. The book presents legal and moral arguments against euthanasia and assisted suicide, advocating for the retention of bans on the practices. It explores case histories from jurisdictions that have legalized the practice, including Oregon and the Netherlands. \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\" grew out of Gorsuch's doctoral dissertation. While attending Oxford University, he studied legal and ethical issues related to assisted suicide and euthanasia under John Finnis, an Australian legal scholar opposed to assisted suicide.\n\nIn \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\", Gorsuch treats physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia as morally identical acts. The scope of the book is limited to intentional killing by private persons, avoiding the complexities of considering the issue alongside the death penalty and warfare. In the book, Gorsuch rejects commonly held views about autonomy, arguing that states should sometimes place \"paternalistic constraints on the choices of its citizens.\" He sharply criticizes judge Richard Posner of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, who wrote that government should not interfere with a person's decision to end their life. Gorsuch argues that Posner's view could require the legalization of consensual homicide and would lead to mass suicide pacts, duels, and organ sales. Gorsuch further characterized assisted suicide as, \"essentially a right to consensual homicide.\" He said that the U.S. should \"retain existing law [banning assisted suicide and euthanasia] on the basis that human life is fundamentally and inherently valuable, and that the intentional taking of human life by private persons is always wrong.\"\n\nOn April 4, 2017, Buzzfeed and \"Politico\" ran articles highlighting similar language occurring in \"The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia\" and an earlier law review article by Abigail Lawlis Kuzma, Indiana's deputy attorney general. Academic experts contacted by \"Politico\" \"differed in their assessment of what Gorsuch did, ranging from calling it a clear impropriety to mere sloppiness.\" Gorsuch's advisor at Oxford, John Finnis, stated, \"The allegation is entirely without foundation. The book is meticulous in its citation of primary sources. The allegation that the book is guilty of plagiarism because it does not cite secondary sources which draw on those same primary sources is, frankly, absurd.\" Kuzma stated, \"I have reviewed both passages and do not see an issue here, even though the language is similar. These passages are factual, not analytical in nature, framing both the technical legal and medical circumstances of the 'Baby/Infant Doe' case that occurred in 1982.\" Noah Feldman, a Harvard Law professor, thought that Gorsuch had committed \"minor plagiarism\", that deserved \"no more punishment than the embarrassment attendant on its revelation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33242279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33242279", "title": "Thomas Oosthuizen", "text": "Thomas Oosthuizen\n\nThomas Oosthuizen ( ; born 2 April 1988) is a South African professional boxer. He is a former IBO world champion in two weight classes, having held the super-middleweight title from 2011 to 2014, and the light-heavyweight title in 2015.\n\nOosthuizen made his professional debut on 29 February 2008, knocking out Johannes Swart in two rounds. He then reeled off twelve straight victories, nine of which coming by way of knockout.\n\nOn 6 November 2010, Oosthuizen faced off against IBO Super Middleweight titleholder Isaac Chilemba. The result was a split-decision draw which allowed Chilemba to retain the title, Oosthuizen claims that attempted to make a rematch were swiftly declined. On 26 March 2011, Oosthuizen got a second crack at the IBO title against Evert Bravo (Chilemba had vacated the title to move up to the Light Heavyweight class). Oosthuizen won the fight via a ninth-round technical knockout, which saw the referee stepping in to save Bravo from taking further punishment. Oosthuizen made his American debut on the undercard of Andre Berto vs. Jan Zaveck, winning a unanimous decision over Aaron Pryor Jr on 3 September 2011.\n\nAfter two seemingly lackluster performances (a draw with Brandon Gonzáles and split decision victory over Ezequiel Maderna), a motorcycle injury forced Oosthuizen to withdraw from a scheduled bout fight with Eleider Alvarez. He was subsequently released by his promoter Rodney Berman, who cited the fact that Oosthuizen was at least 13 pounds over the 175 lb. limit for the bout; stating, \"He's had so many chances and blown every one\". Following a brief stint in rehabilitation, Oosthuizen was able to mend ties with his promoter in an attempt to move forward with his boxing career. He vacated his IBO Super Middleweight Title on April 21, 2014 and is scheduled to face Frenchman Doudou Ngumbu in Light Heavyweight bout.\n"}
{"id": "4589258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589258", "title": "Tūhawaiki", "text": "Tūhawaiki\n\nTūhawaiki ( – 10 October 1844) — often known as \"Hone Tūhawaiki\", \"John Tūhawaiki\" or \"Jack Tūhawaiki\", or by his nickname of \"Bloody Jack\" — became a paramount chief of the Ngāi Tahu Māori iwi in the southern part of the South Island of New Zealand, and was based predominantly on Ruapuke Island. He gained his nickname from early interactions with Foveaux Strait whalers on account of his colourful and expletive-laden speech, and it embarrassed him in later years after his conversion to Christianity.\n\nBorn at Inch Clutha in South Otago in the early years of the 19th century, he gained prominence in about 1833 when a war-party led by him defeated the Ngāti Toa chief Te Rauparaha at Lake Grassmere. The Ngāti Toa leader escaped with his life only through luck. Four years later, a war-party led by Tūhawaiki and Taiaroa inflicted severe damage on Ngāti Toa troops in a number of raids. Around the same time, Tūhawaiki became Ngāi Tahu chief upon the death of his uncle, Te Whakataupuka. He gained a reputation as a bold and intelligent military leader, as well as shrewd and insightful in his non-military dealings with pākehā settlers.\n\nOn 10 June 1840, Tūhawaiki signed a copy of the Treaty of Waitangi aboard at Ruapuke.\n\nTūhawaiki became involved in numerous sales of land to settlers and entrepreneurs, notably that of the Otago Block to Frederick Tuckett, Symonds, and Clarke for £2,400 in July 1844.\n\nDuring the spring of 1844, Tūhawaiki drowned south of Timaru when his boat hit rocks at a location now known as Tūhawaiki Point. Other New Zealand places named in his honour include Jack's Bay and the nearby Tūhawaiki Island in the Catlins, as well as a peak in Fiordland's Darran Mountains.\n\nA number of artefacts belonging or relating to Tūhawaiki still exist in New Zealand museums. The Southland Museum and Art Gallery has a bayonet and a 12-pounder cannon reputedly owned by Tūhawaiki, the Otago Museum has a revolving flintlock rifle thought to be Tūhawaiki's, and the Hocken Collections, University of Otago has a document signed by Tūhawaiki in both English and moko-form .\n\n"}
{"id": "1868133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868133", "title": "Valerie and Her Week of Wonders (film)", "text": "Valerie and Her Week of Wonders (film)\n\nValerie and Her Week of Wonders () is a 1970 Czechoslovakian surrealist horror film directed by Jaromil Jireš and based on the 1935 novel of the same name by Vítězslav Nezval. It is considered part of the Czechoslovak New Wave movement. The film stars 13-year-old Jaroslava Schallerová as Valerie, with a supporting cast that includes Helena Anýžová, Karel Engel, Jan Klusák, and Petr Kopriva.\n\n\"Valerie and Her Week of Wonders\" was filmed in the Czech town of Slavonice and surrounding areas. The film portrays the heroine as living in a disorienting dream, cajoled by priests, vampires, and men and women alike. The film blends elements of the fantasy and horror film genres.\n\nValerie, a pretty young girl, is asleep when a thief steals her earrings; as she tries to investigate, she's startled by a horrific man, the Constable, who covers his face with a mask. The thief returns her earrings the next day, angering the Constable.\n\nBack at her house, Valerie's grandmother, Elsa, tells her that the earrings were left behind by Valerie's mother upon joining a convent. Previously, the earrings belonged to the Constable, who also owned their house. Valerie also learns that a group of missionaries and a company of actors are coming to town. During her neighbor Hedvika's wedding, Valerie sees the Constable watching her in the crowd and her grandmother also seems to recognize him. Valerie receives a letter from the thief, Orlík (\"Eaglet\"), warning her that the Constable, his uncle, killed Orlík's parents and now wants Valerie's earrings back. Orlík asks Valerie to meet him at the church that evening; when they meet he doesn't hide his attraction to her.\n\nLater, Valerie meets the Constable in the street, in disguise; he leads Valerie to a chamber where her grandmother whips herself to win back the love of a past lover, a priest named Gracián. Orlík saves Valerie and tells her that his uncle is in love with her. The Constable meets Elsa, who calls him Richard and was his lover when she was 17. He promises to make her young again if she sells him the house that Valerie will inherit. Meanwhile, Orlík gives Valerie a pearl for protection, then hides her from Richard again. At a picnic, Gracián tells Valerie that Orlík is her brother. That night, Gracián comes into her bedroom and attempts to rape her, but she swallows the pearl to protect herself. Meanwhile, Richard and Elsa sneak into Hedvika's; while Hedvika and her husband consummate their marriage, Elsa bites her on the neck, stealing the blood necessary to become young again.\n\nValerie finds Orlík bound to a waterfall by Richard. Valerie frees Orlík and takes him to her house, avoiding his romantic intentions by blindfolding him, since she now thinks they're siblings. They discover Gracián hanging dead from Valerie's window and take the body to a crypt under Valerie's house; Elsa is there, now a vampire. Disguised as a young woman, Elsa introduces herself as a distant cousin and tells Valerie that her grandmother left suddenly. She tries to bite Valerie, then restrains her while she's asleep and steals the earrings. Elsa imprisons Valerie, who then observes Elsa having sex with a man and then killing him, then attempting to seduce Orlík, who instead steals the earrings again.\n\nOrlík frees Valerie, returns her earrings, and confesses his love for her. He tries to explain that he's not her father's son, but Richard's, but Valerie runs away. She has guessed Elsa is actually her grandmother, and started to feel something for Richard, who's dying. Valerie steals a chicken from the market and takes it to Richard, who's just told Elsa that he is Valerie's father, and that Valerie's blood is the key to their survival. When Valerie heals Richard, he reverts to being a monster and attacks her. He plans to transplant Orlík's heart into Valerie to make her immortal, but Elsa wants it for herself. Valerie, pretending to be unconscious, overhears everything. She revives Gracián, who wasn't actually dead, and finds a goodbye letter from Orlík.\n\nValerie meets Hedvika, sick from Elsa's bite and depressed about her marriage. They retreat into Hedvika's bedroom and spend the night together, after which Hedvika is healed. Outside, Gracián tells a crowd that Valerie is a witch who tempted him into sin. He orders her captured and burned at the stake, but Valerie swallows the magic earrings and escapes unharmed. In the crypt, now a brothel, Valerie tricks Richard into drinking one of the earrings, turning him into a polecat. In a progressively more dreamlike sequence, Valerie reunites with Orlík, revealed to be one of the actors; then Elsa, who doesn't recall anything that's happened; then her long-lost parents. In the final scene everyone dances around Valerie in the forest, while the virgins sing for her. Eventually she falls asleep in a bed in the forest, alone.\n\nThe screenplay was approved in late April 1968, and despite Jireš' 1969 feature \"The Joke\" being banned by Czech authorities, production proceeded on \"Valerie\".\n\nThe film soundtrack, featuring music composed by Luboš Fišer, was released for the first time in December 2006. Available both on CD and LP, the booklet reveals previously unseen images, international poster designs, as well as notes by Andy Votel, Peter Hames and Trish Keenan from the band Broadcast.\n\nIn January 2004, the film was released on DVD in the United States and Canada by Facets Video. In June of that same year, the film was released on DVD in the UK by Redemption Films Ltd.. In June 2015, the film was released on DVD and Blu-ray by the Criterion Collection, featuring a 4K digital restoration; three early short films by director Jireš, \"Uncle\" (1959), \"Footprints\" (1960), and \"The Hall of Lost Steps\" (1960); interviews from 2006 with Jaroslava Schallerová and Jan Klusák; and an alternate psychedelic folk soundtrack by the Valerie Project.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 100% based on , with a weighted average rating of 7.8/10. \"The New York Times\" called the film \"Consistently and humorously anticlerical\", writing that it \"may be the most exotic flower to bloom on the grave of the Prague Spring, but it's one with deep roots in 20th-century Czech culture\". \n\nJordan Cronk of \"Slant Magazine\" wrote that the film \"may be a willfully enigmatic, even obtuse viewing experience, but every frame continues to vibrant with energy and thrum with life\", and gave the film a rating of three-and-a-half out of five stars. Mike D'Angelo of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a rating of C-, calling it \"the sort of film that you really have to experience for yourself\" and writing that \"some will see not so much a week of wonders as a week of wanking. Others will be entranced\".\n\nIn the book \"101 Horror Films You Must See Before You Die\", author and professor at Brunel University Tanya Krzyminska called the film \"an exquisitely crafted fairy tale woven around the sexual awakening of a young woman\". Krzyminska also noted that, although the film shared many similarities with soft-core pornographic films of the period, \"it seeks a broader canvas in a blend of attributes drawn from both high and low culture.\" Krzyminska also noted the film's elements of gothic horror and fairy tales, as well as its use of symbolic imagery.\n\nMany writers have cited similarities between the film and the work of English writer Angela Carter (1940–1992), who had seen the film during its release in England. Her screenplay for \"The Company of Wolves\" (1984) adapted from Carter's short stories, in collaboration with director Neil Jordan, bears a direct or indirect influence. A May 2005 Jireš retrospective film series at Riverside Studios showed the two films together.\n\nIn 2006 members of New Weird America acts Espers, Fern Knight, Fursaxa and other musicians formed the Valerie Project. The group performs original compositions in unison with the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "740780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=740780", "title": "Vātsyāyana", "text": "Vātsyāyana\n\nVātsyāyana is the name of an ancient Indian philosopher, known for writing the \"Kama Soutra\", the most famous book in the world on human sexuality. He lived in India during the second or third century CE, probably in Pataliputra (modern day Patna). \n\nHe is not to be confused with Pakṣilasvāmin Vātsyāyana, the author of \"Nyāya Sutra Bhāshya\", the first preserved commentary on Gotama's \"Nyāya Sutras\". His name is sometimes erroneously confused with Mallanaga, the prophet of the Asuras, to whom the origin of erotic science is attributed.\n\nHardly anything is known about Vātsyāyana, although it is believed that his disciples went on his instructions, on the request of the Hindu Kings in the Himalayan range to influence the hill tribals to give up the pagan cult of sacrifices. He is said to have created the legend of Tara among the hill tribes as a tantric goddess. Later as the worship spread to the east Garo hills, the goddess manifest of a 'yoni' goddess Kamakhya was created. His interest in human sexual behavior as a medium of attaining spirituality was recorded in his treatise Kama Sutra.\n\nAt the close of the Kama Sutra this is what he writes about himself:\n\nAfter reading and considering the works of Babhravya and other ancient authors, and thinking over the meaning of the rules given by them, this treatise was composed, according to the precepts of the Holy Writ, for the benefit of the world, by Vatsyayana, while leading the life of a religious student at Benares, and wholly engaged in the contemplation of the Deity. This work is not to be used merely as an instrument for satisfying our desires. A person acquainted with the true principles of this science, who preserves his Dharma (virtue or religious merit), his Artha (worldly wealth) and his Kama (pleasure or sensual gratification), and who has regard to the customs of the people, is sure to obtain the mastery over his senses. In short, an intelligent and knowing person attending to Dharma and Artha and also to Kama, without becoming the slave of his passions, will obtain success in everything that he may do.\n\nIt is believed that he must have lived between the 1st and 6th century CE, on the following grounds: He mentions that Satakarni Satavahana, a king of Kuntal, killed Malayevati his wife with an instrument called Katamari by striking her in the passion of love. Vatsyayana quotes this case to warn people of the danger arising from some old customs of striking women when under the influence of sexual passion. This king of Kuntal is believed to have lived and reigned, consequently Vatsyayana must have lived after him. On the other hand, another author, Varahamihira, in the eighteenth chapter of his \"Brihatsanhita\", discusses of the science of love, and appears to have borrowed largely from Vatsyayana on the subject. Varahamihira is believed to have lived during the 6th century, and therefore Vatsyayana must have written his works before the 6th century.\n\n\n\n"}
