{"id": "38639248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38639248", "title": "2013 Indian helicopter bribery scandal", "text": "2013 Indian helicopter bribery scandal\n\nIn early 2013, an Indian national parliamentary investigation began into allegations of bribery and corruption involving several senior officials and a helicopter manufacturer AgustaWestland surrounding the purchase of a new fleet of helicopters. The scandal has been referred to as the Chopper scam or Choppergate by elements of the media and popular press.\n\nSeveral Indian politicians and military officials have been accused of accepting bribes from AgustaWestland in order to win the Indian contract for the supply of 12 AgustaWestland AW101 helicopters; these helicopters are intended to perform VVIP duties for the President of India and other important state officials. Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, is alleged by Italian prosecutors to have received kickbacks from the deal. A note presented in the Italian court, sent by middleman Christian Michel, asks Peter Hulett, an AgustaWestland employee, to target key advisors to Sonia Gandhi and lists their names as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Ahmed Patel, Pranab Mukherjee, M. Veerappa Moily, Oscar Fernandes, M. K. Narayanan and Vinay Singh. The note also contains the bribes to be paid out, divided as \"AF\" €6 million, \"BUR\" €8.4 million, \"Pol\" €6 million and \"AP\" €3 million.\n\nOn 25 March 2013, India's Defence Minister A.K. Antony confirmed corruption allegations by stating: \"Yes, corruption has taken place in the helicopter deal and bribes have been taken. The CBI is pursuing the case very vigorously.\" As of June 2014, the Indian government has recovered a total amount of 2,068 crore and has recovered around 1,620 crore (45% of the total contract value 3,600 crore) it had paid to AgustaWestland.\n\nOn 8 April 2016, the Milan Court of Appeal, in a 225-page judgement, overturned a lower court verdict and convicted helicopter manufacturer AgustaWestland's executive Giuseppe Orsi to four years' imprisonment for paying a €30 million bribe to Indian politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force officials. \n\nOn 9 December 2016, the CBI arrested former Indian Air Force Chief S.P. Tyagi along with his cousin Sanjeev Tyagi and lawyer Gautam Khaitan. In September 2017, the CBI filed a formal chargesheet against S.P. Tyagi and nine others.\n\nOn 16 December, 2016, the Italian Supreme Court of \"Cassazione\" cancelled the April 2016 conviction sentence, and ordered a retrial to be held again in Milan.\n\nOn January 8, 2018, the third Court of Appeals of Milan finally acquitted the defendants on all charges \nIndia signed a contract to purchase 12 AgustaWestland AW101 helicopters in February 2010 for the Communication Squadron of Indian Air Force to carry the president, PM and other VVIPs. Controversy over the contract came to light on 12 February 2013 with the arrest of Giuseppe Orsi, the CEO of Finmeccanica, AgustaWestland's parent company by Italian authorities; the following day Indian Defence Minister A.K. Antony ordered a probe into the contract.\n\nAfter a huge controversy and allegations of corruption, Defence Minister A.K. Antony, on 12 February, ordered an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).\n\nOn 25 February 2013, CBI registered a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) against 11 persons including the former Indian Air Force Chief, Air Chief Marshal S.P. Tyagi, and his cousins, besides four companies. After carrying out the preliminary enquiry, the CBI found sufficient evidence and registered an FIR on 13 March. The FIR named 13 persons including: former Indian Air Force Chief, Air Chief Marshal S.P. Tyagi, his three brothers: Juli, Docsa and Sandeep, the brother of former Union minister Santosh Bagrodia, Satish Bagrodia, and Pratap Aggarwal (Chairman and Managing Director of IDS Infotech). The FIR also named four companies - Italy-based Finmeccanica, UK-based AgustaWestland and Chandigarh-based IDS Infotech and Aeromatrix.\n\nIn 2013, billionaire Indian arms dealer Abhishek Verma and his Romanian born wife Anca Neacsu were named suspects in this scandal. Abhishek had played the role of a middleman in the deal and had interfaced with the politicians in securing CCS clearance from the Cabinet Committee. This nexus was exposed by TimesNow TV with their global investigation. According to the investigators, part of the bribes from AgustaWestland was sent to Abhishek's companies Atlas Defence Systems accounts in Mauritius, to Bermuda accounts of Atlas Group Ltd and the other part was diverted to his wife's front company in New York Ganton Limited. These funds are suspected to have been sent to Indian politicians who were beneficiaries in this scandal. BJP leader Subramanian Swamy had first identified the role of Abhishek Verma and his wife Anca Neacsu in 2013 in several of his blogs and press-releases.\n\nIn September 2015, a special CBI court issued an open non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Christian Michel based on a CBI report that he was needed to be questioned in the case to know how much amount he had received as \"commission\" in the deal. The CBI said that \"Based on this arrest warrant, Interpol India would be requested to issue a Red Corner Notice against Christian Michel James and execute said warrant.\" In an interview to a newspaper, he denied any wrongdoing by stating that he had never met any \"Gandhi\" in his life.\n\nEnforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating money laundering allegations. In March 2015, the ED traced and identified the properties worth around 1.12 crore owned by Christian Michel and issued a provisional attachment order. The ED claimed that Michel bought a flat in south Delhi's Safdarjung Enclave in the name of media firm Media Exim using the bribe money. He was also reportedly in possession of a luxury car and a Fixed Deposit of 54 lakh. In September 2015, the adjudicating authority confirmed the attachment of properties and allowed the agency to retain the properties. In September 2015, the ED attached assets worth about 7 crore alleged to be in the name of family members of ex-IAF Chief S. P. Tyagi.\n\nThe CBI and the ED have sent letters rogatory to as many as eight countries including Italy, Tunisia, Mauritius, the UAE, the UK, Switzerland, Singapore and the British Virgin Islands.\n\nOn 27 February 2013, UPA-II Government introduced a motion in Rajya Sabha (the upper house of the Parliament of India) for an investigation led by a 30-member Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC). The motion was passed after a walkout by most of the opposition parties like BJP, JD(U), Trinamool Congress, CPI, TDP and AGP. During the debate, Leader of the Opposition Arun Jaitley said the JPC was an \"exercise in futility\" and a \"diversionary tactic.\" He argued that the case involved various legal aspects such as extradition of accused foreigners and custodial interrogation and the JPC can have \"none of these powers,\" leaving it ineffective. Many opposition members demanded Supreme Court-monitored investigation (on the similar lines of 2G spectrum case). Demands were also made to establish money trail and issue Letter Rogatory (LR).\n\nThe UPA government initially denied all allegations and claimed it has \"nothing to hide\" and that \"our track record is not cover up.\"\n\nIndia cancelled the 3,600 crore deal with AgustaWestland in January 2014. The government cancelled the contract \"on grounds of breach of the Pre-contract Integrity Pact and the agreement by AWIL (AgustaWestland International Ltd)\". The contract was frozen in February 2013 after allegations surfaced that Rs 3,600 crore was paid as a bribe.\n\nSenior officials involved in the decision-making process that led to the selection of the AgustaWestland helicopters for VIP use were M. K. Narayanan (Indian Police Service (IPS), former Director Intelligence Bureau (India) and NSA); B V Wanchoo (IPS, and Chief of Special Protection Group); and Shashi Kant Sharma, IAS, and former defence secretary. After their tenures at the centre, the UPA Government made M.K. Narayanan governor of West Bengal, B.V. Wanchoo governor of Goa and Shashikant Sharma Comptroller and Auditor General of India.\n\nThe CBI approached Union Law Ministry to record statements of M. K. Narayanan and B. V. Wanchoo in January 2014. M.K Narayanan and B. V. Wanchoo were West Bengal and Goa Governors respectively at the time of CBI's request. Their statements were considered vital as they were National Security Adviser and Special Protection Group (SPG) chief at the time of the signing of the contract with AgustaWestland. Their views were also considered before the Indian Government signed the contract with AgustaWestland. However, Kapil Sibal's Union Law ministry stonewalled the CBI probe by rejecting CBI's request to examine them under the usual excuse of \"immunity.\" The CBI, therefore, approached President Pranab Mukherjee to seek permission to examine ex-NSA and ex-chief of SPG. M. K. Narayanan and B. V. Wanchoo were questioned by CBI later in June and July 2014 respectively.\n\nAfter the cancellation of the contract, India encashed over 250 crore made by AgustaWestland as a bank guarantee in the Indian banks in January 2014. Separately, India requested the Italian government to retrieve the bank guarantee amount made by the firm in Italian banks which was more than €275 million (2,364 crore). On 17 March 2014, a request made by India was rejected by an Italian court. However, the appellate court in Milan reversed the lower court's judgement and upheld the claims of the Indian government. Accordingly, in June 2014, the Indian government encashed 1,818 crore, taking the total amount recovered so far to 2,068 crore. With this, India has recovered the entire amount of around 1,620 crore (45% of the total contract value 3,600 crore) it had paid to AgustaWestland.\n\nThe Italian court, investigating the case in October 2014, acquitted ex-IAF Chief S.P. Tyagi of all corruption charges. It also acquitted the former Finmeccanica CEO Giuseppe Orsi and former AgustaWestland head Bruno Spagnolini of “charges of international corruption.” The court, however, convicted and sentenced them to two years in prison on the lesser charge of “false invoicing” in the case. \nThen, on 16 December 2016, the \"Corte di Cassazione\" (Supreme Court) cancelled the Appeals Court guilty verdict, and ordered a retrial, referring the matter to a different Court of Appeal, always in Milan.\nAfter nine months of proceedings, on 8 January, 2018, the Milan Third Court of Appeals finally cleared the defendants and dismissed all charges, citing lack of sufficient evidence to support the allegations \n"}
{"id": "10354141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10354141", "title": "American Academy of Diplomacy", "text": "American Academy of Diplomacy\n\nThe American Academy of Diplomacy is a private, non-profit, non-partisan, elected organization whose active membership is limited to men and women who have held positions of high responsibility in crafting and implementing American foreign policy. They have served the United States as chiefs of mission in major embassies abroad, and/or equivalent high-level foreign policy positions in Washington.\n\nFounded in 1983, the Academy focuses the expertise of its members on the pursuit of excellence in the practice of American diplomacy.\n\nIn its early years, the Academy provided the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee with commentary on the qualifications of those nominated by the President as ambassadors, but today it only does so in exceptional circumstances, such as if the Board of Directors feels strongly about a nominee's lack of qualifications to be ambassador.\n\nThe academy is financially supported by its members, and by grants from foundations and corporate contributors.\n\nThomas R. Pickering, Chairman\nMarc Grossman, Vice-Chairman\nRonald E. Neumann, President\nNicholas A. Veliotes, Treasurer\nMolly Williamson, Secretary\n\nAvis Bohlen, Thomas D. Boyatt, Kenneth Brill, Kate Canavan, Johnnie Carson, Frances Cook, Lorne Craner, Paula Dobriansky, Shaun Donnelly, Charles Ford, Alonzo Fulgham, Robert Gallucci, Harry Geisel, William Harrop, Deborah McCarthy, John Negroponte, Nancy Powell, Charles A. Ray, Arlene Render, Marcie Ries, Peter F. Romero, Edward M. Rowell, Patrick Theros, Mike Van Dusen, Tony Wayne, Frank Wisner, Johnny Young.\n\nMaria Reissaus\n\nJoseph J. Sisco, Max M. Kampelman, Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Frank C. Carlucci, Sol M. Linowitz, Elliot Richardson\n\nBruce Laingen, Brandon Grove, David H. Popper, David D. Newsom\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1084519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084519", "title": "Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League", "text": "Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League\n\nThe Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (, ; abbreviated AFPFL), or \"hpa hsa pa la\" () by its Burmese acronym, was the main political alliance in Burma from 1945 until 1958. It was founded by the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) led by Thakin Soe, the Burma National Army (BNA) led by Aung San, and the People's Revolutionary Party (PRP) (which later evolved into the Socialist Party) at a meeting held between 1–3 March 1945 as a reorganised version of the Anti-Fascist Organisation (AFO), formed to resist the Japanese occupation. The new organisation aimed to resist the British colonial administration and achieve independence.\n\nFollowing internal disputes, the party split into two factions in June 1958, the Clean AFPFL and the Stable AFPFL.\n\nThe AFPFL was formed as a reorganisation of the Anti-Fascist Organisation at a meeting held from 1–3 March 1945. When Aung San left the army to re-enter the political arena as a civilian, he became the recognised leader and president of the AFPFL in January 1946.\n\nThe AFPFL was a political alliance comprising several very different political parties held together by the common leadership of first Aung San and then U Nu. Its first general secretary was the communist leader Thakin Than Tun.\n\nDissent and rifts began to appear in the AFPFL over the negotiations regarding strategy and more importantly the nature of independence on offer. Thakin Soe started a rebellion after splitting from the CPB forming a splinter group called the Red Flag Communist Party. The CPB, now dubbed the White Flag Communists, continued to co-operate with the AFPFL, but Than Tun was forced to resign as general secretary in July 1946 and replaced by the socialist Kyaw Nyein, after a split with Aung San and the rest.\n\nAung San became the de facto premier of Burma in September 1946 when he accepted the British Governor's invitation to lead the Executive Council. The communists accused him and the others of selling out and settling for what they alleged a 'sham independence'. The CPB was then expelled from the AFPFL the following November. The AFPFL negotiated with the British total independence for Burma including the ethnic minorities, and Aung San succeeded in uniting the majority Burmans with the hills peoples at the Panglong Conference in February 1947. Aung Zan Wai, Pe Khin, Bo Hmu Aung, Sir Maung Gyi, Myoma U Than Kywe and Sein Mya Maung were among the negotiators of the conference negotiated with Bamar representative Aung San and other ethnic leaders in 1947. All these leaders unanimously decided to join the Union of Burma.\n\nGeneral elections were held in April 1947, which the AFPFL won convincingly amidst an opposition boycott, taking 173 of the 210 seats and running unopposed in over fifty constituencies. Aung San was set to become Prime Minister, but was assassinated together with six other members of his cabinet on 19 July, a date that later became Martyrs' Day. In his place, U Nu then became both the Premier of Burma and leader of the AFPFL.\n\nBurma declared independence from Britain in January 1948, and the CPB went underground the following March after U Nu ordered the arrest of its leaders for inciting rebellion. Other groups also soon dropped out of the AFPFL to join the rebellion, not only the White-band faction of the People's Volunteer Organisation (PVO) formed by Aung San as a paramilitary force out of the demobbed veterans, but also a large part of the Burma Rifles led by communist commanders calling themselves the Revolutionary Burma Army (RBA). The AFPFL government had plunged into civil war with not only Burman insurgent groups but also ethnic minorities including the Karen National Union (KNU), Mon, Pa-O, nationalist Rakhine and the Mujahid or Rakhine Muslims.\n\nThe first post-independence general elections were held over several months in 1951 and 1952, with the AFPFL and its allies winning 199 of the 250 seats in the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nAlthough the AFPFL was returned to office again in the 1956 elections, the results came as a shock as the opposition left-wing coalition, known as the National United Front (NUF) and led by Aung Than, older brother of Aung San, won 37% of the vote and 48 seats in the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nBy 1958, despite an economic recovery and the unexpected success of U Nu's 'Arms for Democracy' offer that saw the surrender of a large number of insurgents most notably the PVO, the AFPFL had become riven with internal splits, which worsened following the party's congress in January 1958. In July 1958 it formally split, with one group led by Prime Minister U Nu, which he named the \"Clean AFPFL\"; the other was led by Kyaw Nyein and Ba Swe and was known as the Stable AFPFL.\n\nThe majority of AFPFL MPs were supporters of the Stable faction, but U Nu was able to narrowly escape defeat in parliamentary motion of no-confidence by only eight votes with the support of the opposition NUF. Still dogged by the 'multicoloured insurgency', the army hardliners feared the communists being allowed to rejoin mainstream politics through Nu's need for continued support by the NUF, and was compounded by the Shan Federal Movement lobbying for a loose federation. The volatile situation culminated in a military caretaker government under General Ne Win that presided over the 1960 general elections, which were won by U Nu's Clean AFPFL.\n\nFollowing the restoration of multi-party democracy after the 8888 Uprising, two new parties were established using the AFPFL name, the AFPFL (founded 1988) and the AFPFL (Original). Both contested the 1990 elections, but received less than 0.05% of the vote and failed to win a seat.\n\nDuring its time in office, the AFPFL pursued a nationalist policy based on unity and consensus, upheld parliamentary democracy and presided over a mixed economy comprising both state and private enterprise. It spent most of this period in its history fighting several communist, socialist and ethnic separatist rebel groups for control over the future of the country. It also fought a successful war against Nationalist Chinese (KMT) forces who occupied the far north of the country for several years after the KMT's defeat by the Chinese Communist Party. Its foreign policy followed strict neutrality supporting the Bandung Conference of 1955, shunning the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation (SEATO) on account of the American support of the KMT on one hand, and facing the communist insurgencies on the other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "359403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359403", "title": "Balance of Power (video game)", "text": "Balance of Power (video game)\n\nBalance of Power is a computer strategy game of geopolitics during the Cold War, created by Chris Crawford and published in 1985 on the Apple Macintosh by Mindscape, followed by ports to a variety of platforms over the next two years.\n\nIn the game the player takes the role of the President of the United States or General Secretary of the Soviet Union. The goal is to improve the player's country's standing in the world relative to the other superpower. During each yearly turn, random events occur that may have effects on the player's international prestige. The player can choose to respond to these events in various ways, which may prompt a response from the other superpower. This creates brinkmanship situations between the two nations, potentially escalating to a nuclear war, which ends the game.\n\nCrawford was already fairly well known for earlier games, especially \"Eastern Front (1941)\". His 1984 announcement that he was moving to the Macintosh platform to work on an entirely new idea in gaming generated considerable interest. It was widely reviewed after its release, including an extremely positive review in \"The New York Times Magazine\". It was praised for its inventive nonaction gameplay that was nevertheless exciting and a distinct alternative to the more common arcade games of the era. It has been named as one of the most innovative computer games of all time.\n\nHugely successful on the Mac, the addition of an IBM PC port late in the year made it a best seller. Ultimately selling over a quarter million units although it only ran on relatively new platforms, it represented a not-insignificant fraction of all video game sales through 1985 and 86. It spawned a number of sequels and copycats, but none of these were as successful as the original.\n\nThe player may choose to be either the President of the United States or the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and must lead the chosen superpower for eight years, seeking to maximize \"prestige\" and avoiding a nuclear war. Each turn is one year long; at the beginning of each year, the player is presented with a set of incidents and crises in various countries around the globe, and must choose a response to each one. Responses may range from no action, to diplomatic notes to the other superpower, to military maneuvers. Each response is then met with a counter-response, which may vary from backing down to escalation. The player then gets a chance to initiate actions, and deal with the opponent's responses.\n\nThis core mechanic is similar to that of Bruce Ketchledge's 1983 game \"Geopolitique 1990\", published by SSI. One difference from the earlier game is how negotiations are resolved. In both games, backing down in a negotiation results in a loss of prestige, which will reverberate politically. Likewise, in both games brinkmanship may result in a global war. In \"Geopolitique\", such wars were actually fought in-game, after which the game continued. In \"Balance of Power\", such a war ends the game instantly, with the following message: \"You have ignited a(n accidental) nuclear war. And no, there is no animated display of a mushroom cloud with parts of bodies flying through the air. We do not reward failure.\"\n\nCrawford had made a name for himself during his years at Atari in the late 1970s and early 1980s. His smash hit \"Eastern Front\" made him one of the few game authors known by name, and helped ensure later releases were also successful to a degree. By early 1984, Atari was rapidly going bankrupt due to the effects of the North American video game crash of 1983. In March they laid off the majority of their staff, including Crawford. His ample severance was enough to allow him to write a new game as a freelancer. After considering a sequel to \"Eastern Front\" or a political game about the Inca empire, he eventually decided to write a cold war \"game about peace\". Crawford cited Bob Dylan's \"Blowin' in the Wind\" as an emotional inspiration to the game.\n\nConsidering the Atari platform a lost cause, Crawford began looking at the new 16-bit platforms that were just coming to market; he dismissed the IBM PC as too crude, the Amiga as likely to fail for business reasons, and chose the Macintosh as the platform to develop on. At the time this was non-trivial, as there were no development tools for the Mac, and programmers had to buy an Apple Lisa for this.\n\nDuring an April 1984 interview at the Origins Game Fair, Crawford stated that he was \"working on a game for the Macintosh entitled ARMS RACE based on the philosophy that 'H-bombs don't kill people, geopolitics kills people.'\" By May the initial concept was fleshed out; the game would take place on top of a world map that could show various details, events would be presented as newspaper stories following an algorithmic concept he developed after considering the headlines in \"National Enquirer\", and these events and their outcomes would be expressed in terms of \"prestige points\".\n\nCrawford had difficulty in finding a publisher for \"Balance of Power\", due in no small part to the lingering effects of the 1983 crash. Random House eventually agreed to publish it, but there was considerable ill will between Crawford and the editor assigned to him, who had no prior experience with video games. Random House ultimately cancelled the contract and demanded that Crawford return its $10,000 advance payment, almost causing him to lose his home. His wife demanded he get a \"real job\".\n\nThe work was saved by a friend at \"InfoWorld\", who heard of his troubles and published a two-part column on the game. The article was seen by a producer at the newly formed Mindscape, who agreed to publish it. Betas were ready in February 1985, and were polished through the spring and summer. The game was released in September, and was an immediate sensation given that the world was then at the height of the Cold War. The fame was in no small part helped by a review in \"The New York Times Magazine\" written by David L. Aaron, Jimmy Carter's Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, who called it \"about as close as one might get to the cut-and-thrust of international politics without going through confirmation by the Senate.\"\n\nThe game was an immediate hit on the initial Macintosh and Apple II platforms. A release for Microsoft Windows 1.0 in 1986 made it a multiplatform best seller. These were followed by versions on the Atari ST (1987) and Amiga, among others. In total, the game sold over $10 million during its heyday, during a time when total sales for all gaming hardware and software combined was about $500 million.\n\nIn 1986, Crawford published a book also called \"Balance of Power\", which goes into great depth on the game, including the background of the politics, the formulas used to calculate prestige and related parameters, and an account of its (lengthy) gestation.\n\nAround 2013 Crawford released source code of several of his games, among them \"Balance of Power\", from his career to the public, fulfilling a 2011 given promise.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" stated that \"Balance of Power\" \"stands in a prestigious circle: that of the most innovative computer games of all time. If there were Academy Awards for computer games, BOP would get my votes for Best Picture and Best Director of 1985\". A 1992 survey in the magazine of wargames with modern settings gave the game four stars out of five, a 1994 survey gave it three stars, and in 1996 the magazine listed the game's Game Over scene as #11 on its list of \"the 15 best ways to die in computer gaming\". \"Dragon\" recommended the game and called it a \"superb game of global strategy that goes beyond other games, wherein thoughtful, calculated geopolitics could prevent a worldwide nuclear war!\" as well as \"a truly entertaining and thought-provoking simulation of world geopolitics which involves the player in a quest to prevent a worldwide nuclear holocaust, while promoting either the U.S.A. or Russia to world prominence. This is a marvelous program that everyone should experience at least once.\" \"BYTE\" praised the game in 1986, describing the Mac version as \"the best game I had ever seen on any computer ... by all means, get the program\". \"Info\" gave the Amiga version four-plus stars out of five, approving of the complex gameplay with a good user interface. While complaining of the lack of sound from the \"obvious Macintosh influence\", the magazine concluded that it was \"An excellent game\".\n\n\"Compute!\" presented opposing views of the game in May 1988. The magazine included \"Balance of Power\" in its list of \"Our Favorite Games\", calling it \"an impressive recreation of the world's geopolitical landscape ... call one too many bluffs and you'll see the chilling message \"You have ignited a nuclear war\"\". Orson Scott Card, however, wrote in his review of the game that Crawford—\"the best designer of simulation games I've seen\"—was \"leaning over your shoulder and bullying you into playing the game his way. He has a sweet delusion that as long as the United States is very nice and doesn't do anything to offend them, the Russians will go home. And if you don't play that way, why, he'll stop the game with a nasty remark about how the world was just destroyed by nuclear war\". He added that since no nuclear war had been fought Crawford could not know what would cause one, and \"there are a lot of experts who claim that the Soviets seem to behave a lot nicer when we stand up to them than when we disarm\", but that \"[Crawford] is so sure he's right that \"Balance of Power\" isn't a game, it's propaganda\".\n\nIn 1989 \"Compute!\" stated that the 1990 edition's multipolar features were welcome additions to the game. That year Card stated that the magazine's 1988 list caused him to reevaluate the game when playing the 1990 edition, stating that it had \"the most detailed, carefully extrapolated future world I've worked with\". While still criticizing geopolitical \"absurdities\" such as forcing the United States to passively accept Soviet troops in Syria (contrary to what happened during the Yom Kippur War) and advisors in Mexico or start nuclear war, Card now concluded that such outcomes probably reflected computer limitations rather than Crawford's political views. He advised players to pretend that \"Balance of Power\" was set on an alien planet \"astonishingly similar\" to Earth, and to play solely based on the game's assumptions about the world. Chuck Moss disagreed with Card's revised view, describing \"Balance of Power\" in \"Computer Gaming World\" in 1992 as \"reflect[ing] extreme bias on the part of [its] designers\". He called it a \"pacific treatise ... nuclear war erupted if the U.S. so much as sent five million dollars to Panama\".\n\nCrawford stated in 1987 that he was most proud of his work on the game: \"I feel [it] has made the world a better place ... I think it has made a small number of people much more realistic in their appraisal of world affairs\". In 1996 \"Computer Gaming World\" ranked it as the 78th best game of all time, calling it \"a wonderful game of political intrigue that felt just like the Cold War and didn't require the detail of \"Shadow President\" or \"CyberJudas\".\" That year it was ranked as the 75th top game of all time by \"Next Generation\", who commented \"Although the game's premises are hopelessly outdated (U.S.S.R.? What's that?) and some disagree with the politics, the AI in \"Balance of Power\", combined with its unique play style, make it a classic.\" In 2006, \"The Guardian\" listed it first on its list of \"The 10 political games everyone should play\".\n\nAfter \"Balance of Power\", Crawford began work on an entirely new game, \"\", released in 1987 and selling only a few thousand copies. Mindscape was disappointed, and pressured Crawford to do a follow-up to \"Balance of Power\". The company pressed him hard on it, and Crawford felt that he \"owed them one\" after publishing \"Siboot\". This sequel was released in 1989 as Balance of Power: The 1990 Edition (sometimes referred to as \"Balance of Power II\") on the Apple IIGS, Windows, Macintosh, Amiga and Atari ST. The video game industry sees it as a \"major new version\", but Crawford doesn't consider it a proper sequel, saying he was simply \"tidying up, adding some bells and whistles.\" \"Balance of Power: The 1990 Edition\" adds more countries, advisors to help the player, a new \"multi-polar\" level that allows countries to generate events of their own (such as declaring war on other countries), and a few miscellaneous features including a 2 player Hotseat mode. However, with the ending of the Cold War, interest in the sequel had declined.\n\nIn 1992 Crawford gave the \"Dragon Speech\" where he explained that he was going to leave the game industry to make something more interactive and artistic. After many false starts, this emerged initially as \"The Erasmatron\", and later re-released under the name \"Storytron\". Both systems were used to make highly complex interactive storylines, and as a demo, Crawford used Storytron to build a new game, \"Balance of Power: 21st Century\". This version begins on 12 September 2001 and mostly involves the US's interactions with Asia and other emerging powers. It was not a success; Crawford himself describes it as \"crap\".\n\n\"Balance of Power\" has also been use as the basis for a number of play by mail versions, manually run and based on moves posted in internet forum systems. One long running example is hosted on eRegime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1177210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177210", "title": "Black World Wide Web protest", "text": "Black World Wide Web protest\n\nThe Turn the Web Black protest, also called the Great Web Blackout, the Turn Your Web Pages Black protest, and Black Thursday, was a February 8–9, 1996, online activism action, led by the Voters' Telecommunications Watch and the Center for Democracy and Technology, paralleling the longer-term Blue Ribbon Online Free Speech Campaign organized by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. It protested the Communications Decency Act (CDA), a piece of \"rider\" legislation for Internet censorship attached to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and passed by the United States Congress on February 1, 1996. Timed to coincide with President Bill Clinton's signing of the bill on February 8, 1996, a large number of web sites had their background color turned to black for 48 hours to protest the CDA's curtailment of freedom of expression. Thousands of websites, including a number of major ones, joined in the protest. The campaign was noted by major media such as the CNN, \"Time\" magazine and \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe legislation which gave rise to the protest threatened fines or imprisonment for those accused of distributing \"indecent\" or \"patently offensive\" materials without providing some way of blocking access to minors. Opponents of the bill compared this to demanding librarians assess the age of library users before allowing them access to a particular book in the collection.\n\nThe Communications Decency Act was stuck down as unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in a 9-0 vote on June 26, 1997, upholding an earlier federal district court ruling. The majority of Justices found the CDA violated adults' First Amendment free speech rights with its overbroad suppression and vague language, despite any legitimate interest of the government in protecting children from \"harmful materials\". A concurring minority opinion, penned by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, argued that the law might have been constitutional if limited to situations concerning an intent and knowledge to provide indecent materials to children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8405900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8405900", "title": "Campaign to Defend the Constitution", "text": "Campaign to Defend the Constitution\n\nCampaign to Defend the Constitution (DefCon) was an American online organization founded in September 2005 to support the separation of church and state and to oppose what it perceived as the growing influence of the religious right. It was a project of the Tides Center, a non-profit organization that funds progressive groups. However, its funding ran out in December 2007, at which time its blog announced the organization was \"taking a break.\"\n\nDefCon described itself on its website as ...\n\nThe DefCon advisory board included scientists, journalists, and religious and political leaders such as \n\nAfter Bible publishing company Tyndale House released the video game version of Tim LaHaye's's \"Left Behind\" called \"\", DefCon asked their members to send emails to Wal-Mart CEO Lee Scott to stop selling the game. Wal-Mart stated that it did not intend to comply with the request.\n\nDuring the stem cell campaign, DefCon ran two full page ads in \"The New York Times\" in May and June.\n\nThey also released a video on YouTube featuring DefCon advisory board member and former NARAL Pro-Choice America President Kate Michelman's personal views on stem cell research.\n\nDefCon was launched during the Dover Intelligent Design trial in September, 2005. Since that time the group and its members have played a \"key role defending science education\" in states around the country including Kansas, Utah, and Ohio.\n\nDefCon ran ads asserting the involvement of conservative political strategist Ralph Reed, evangelist Lou Sheldon, and Focus on the Family's James Dobson in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal. Dobson has denied any connection to Abramoff, and a DefCon spokesman has conceded that there was no proof of collusion between Dobson and Abramoff. In response to the ads, Dobson characterized DefCon as \"a radical leftist organization,\" and stated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38316651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38316651", "title": "Communist Party of Kampuchea", "text": "Communist Party of Kampuchea\n\nThe Communist Party of Kampuchea ( or ; CPK), also known as Khmer Communist Party (KCP), was a communist party in Cambodia. Its leader was Pol Pot and its followers were generally known as Khmer Rouge (Red Khmers). The party was underground for most of its existence and took power in the country in 1975 and established the state known as Democratic Kampuchea. The party lost power in 1979 with the establishment of the People's Republic of Kampuchea by leftists who were dissatisfied by the Pol Pot regime and by the intervention of Vietnamese military forces after a period of mass killing. The party was officially dissolved in 1981, with the Party of Democratic Kampuchea claiming its legacy.\n\nThe party was founded in 1951, when the Indochinese Communist Party (ICP) was divided into separate Cambodian, Lao and Vietnamese communist parties. The decision to form a separate Cambodian communist party had been taken at the ICP congress in February the same year. Different sources claim different dates for the exact founding and the first congress of the party. Son Ngoc Minh was appointed as Acting Chairman of the party. The party congress did not elect a full Central Committee, but instead appointed a Party Propagation and Formation Committee. At the time of its formation, the Cambodian party was called Khmer People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP). The ICP had been heavily dominated by Vietnamese and the KPRP was actively supported by the Vietnamese party during its initial phase of existence. Due to the reliance on Vietnamese support in the joint struggle against French colonial rule, the history of the party would later be rewritten, stating 1960 as the year of foundation of the party.\n\nAccording to Democratic Kampuchea's version of party history, the Viet Minh's failure to negotiate a political role for the KPRP at the 1954 Geneva Conference represented a betrayal of the Cambodian movement, which still controlled large areas of the countryside and which commanded at least 5,000 armed men. Following the conference, about 1,000 members of the KPRP, including Son Ngoc Minh, made a Long March into North Vietnam, where they remained in exile. In late 1954, those who stayed in Cambodia founded a legal political party, the Krom Pracheachon, which participated in the 1955 and the 1958 National Assembly elections. In the September 1955 election, it won about 4% of the vote, but did not secure a seat in the legislature. Members of the Pracheachon were subject to constant harassment and to arrests because the party remained outside Sihanouk's Sangkum. Government attacks prevented it from participating in the 1962 election and drove it underground. It is speculated that the decision of Pracheachon to file candidates for the election had not been approved by the now renamed Workers Party of Kampuchea (WPK). Sihanouk habitually labeled local leftists the Khmer Rouge, a term that later came to signify the party and the state headed by Pol Pot, Nuon Chea, Ieng Sary, Khieu Samphan and their associates.\n\nDuring the mid-1950s, two KPRP factions, the \"urban committee\" (headed by Tou Samouth) and the \"rural committee\" (headed by Sieu Heng), emerged. In very general terms, these groups espoused divergent revolutionary lines. The prevalent \"urban\" line endorsed by North Vietnam recognized that Sihanouk by virtue of his success in winning independence from the French was a genuine national leader whose neutralism and deep distrust of the United States made him a valuable asset in Hanoi's struggle to \"liberate\" South Vietnam. Champions of this line hoped that the prince could be persuaded to distance himself from the right-wing and to adopt leftist policies. The other line, supported for the most part by rural cadres who were familiar with the harsh realities of the countryside, advocated an immediate struggle to overthrow the \"feudalist\" Sihanouk. In 1959, Sieu Heng defected to the government and provided the security forces with information that enabled them to destroy as much as 90% of the party's rural apparatus. Although communist networks in Phnom Penh and in other towns under Tou Samouth's jurisdiction fared better, only a few hundred communists remained active in the country by 1960.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Khmer students in Paris organized their own communist movement which had little, if any, connection to the hard-pressed party in their homeland. From their ranks came the men and women who returned home and took command of the party apparatus during the 1960s, led an effective insurgency against Sihanouk and Lon Nol from 1968 until 1975 and established the regime of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nPol Pot, who rose to the leadership of the communist movement in the 1960s, was born in 1928 (some sources say in 1925) in Kampong Thum Province, northeast of Phnom Penh. He attended a technical high school in the capital and then went to Paris in 1949 to study radio electronics (other sources say he attended a school for printers and typesetters and also studied civil engineering).\n\nAnother member of the Paris student group was Ieng Sary. He was a Chinese-Khmer born in 1930 in South Vietnam. He attended the elite Lycée Sisowath in Phnom Penh before beginning courses in commerce and politics at the Paris Institute of Political Studies (more widely known as Sciences Po) in France. Khieu Samphan, considered \"one of the most brilliant intellects of his generation\", was born in 1931 and specialized in economics and politics during his time in Paris. In talent, he was rivaled by Hou Yuon (born in 1930), who studied economics and law. Son Sen (born in 1930) studied education and literature while Hu Nim (born in 1932) studied law.\n\nMost members of the Paris student group came from landowner or civil servant families. Three of the Paris group forged a bond that survived years of revolutionary struggle and intraparty strife, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary married Khieu Ponnary and Khieu Thirith (also known as Ieng Thirith), purportedly relatives of Khieu Samphan. These two well-educated women also played a central role in the regime of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nAt some time between 1949 and 1951, Pol Pot and Ieng Sary joined the French Communist Party. In 1951, the two men went to East Berlin to participate in a youth festival. This experience is considered to have been a turning point in their ideological development. Meeting with Khmers who were fighting with the Viet Minh (and whom they subsequently judged to be too subservient to the Vietnamese), they became convinced that only a tightly disciplined party organization and a readiness for armed struggle could achieve revolution. They transformed the Khmer Students' Association (KSA), to which most of the 200 or so Khmer students in Paris belonged, into an organization for nationalist and leftist ideas. Inside the KSA and its successor organizations was a secret organization known as the Cercle Marxiste. The organization was composed of cells of three to six members with most members knowing nothing about the overall structure of the organization. In 1952, Pol Pot, Hou Yuon, Ieng Sary and other leftists gained notoriety by sending an open letter to Sihanouk calling him the \"strangler of infant democracy\". A year later, the French authorities closed down the KSA, but Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan helped to establish in 1956 a new group, the Khmer Students' Union. Inside, the group was still run by the Cercle Marxiste.\n\nThe doctoral dissertations written by Hou Yuon and Khieu Samphan express basic themes that were later to become the cornerstones of the policy adopted by Democratic Kampuchea. The central role of the peasants in national development was espoused by Hou Yuon in his 1955 thesis, \"The Cambodian Peasants and Their Prospects for Modernization\", which challenged the conventional view that urbanization and industrialization are necessary precursors of development. The major argument in Khieu Samphan's 1959 thesis, \"Cambodia's Economy and Industrial Development\", was that the country had to become self-reliant and end its economic dependency on the developed world. In its general contours, Khieu's work reflected the influence of a branch of the \"dependency theory\" school, which blamed lack of development in the Third World on the economic domination of the industrialized nations.\n\nAfter returning to Cambodia in 1953, Pol Pot threw himself into party work. At first, he went to join with forces allied to the Viet Minh operating in the rural areas of Kampong Cham Province (Kompong Cham). After the end of the war, he moved to Phnom Penh under Tou Samouth's \"urban committee\", where he became an important point of contact between above-ground parties of the left and the underground secret communist movement. His comrades Ieng Sary and Hou Yuon became teachers at a new private high school, the Lycée Kambuboth, which Hou Yuon helped to establish. Khieu Samphan returned from Paris in 1959, taught as a member of the law faculty of the University of Phnom Penh and started a left-wing French-language publication, \"L'Observateur\". The paper soon acquired a reputation in Phnom Penh's small academic circle. The following year, the government closed the paper and Sihanouk's police publicly humiliated Khieu by beating, undressing and photographing him in public—as Shawcross notes, \"not the sort of humiliation that men forgive or forget\". Yet the experience did not prevent Khieu from advocating cooperation with Sihanouk in order to promote a united front against United States activities in South Vietnam. As mentioned, Khieu Samphan, Hou Yuon and Hu Nim were forced to \"work through the system\" by joining the Sangkum and by accepting posts in the prince's government.\n\nOn 28–30 September 1960, twenty-one leaders of the KPRP held a secret congress in a vacant room of the Phnom Penh railroad station. It is estimated that 14 delegates represented the 'rural' faction and seven the 'urban' faction. This pivotal event remains shrouded in mystery because its outcome has become an object of contention (and considerable historical rewriting) between pro-Vietnamese and anti-Vietnamese Khmer communist factions. At the meeting, the party was renamed as the Workers Party of Kampuchea. The question of cooperation with, or resistance to, Sihanouk was thoroughly discussed. A new party structure was adopted and for the first time a permanent Central Committee was appointed with Tou Samouth (who advocated a policy of cooperation) as the general secretary of the party. His ally Nuon Chea, also known as Long Reth, became deputy general secretary while Pol Pot and Ieng Sary were named to the Central Committee to occupy the third and the fifth highest positions in the party hierarchy. Another committee member was veteran communist Keo Meas. In Democratic Kampuchea, this meeting would later be projected as the founding date of the party, consciously downplaying the history of the party prior to Pol Pot's ascent to leadership.\n\nOn 20 July 1962, Tou Samouth was murdered by the Cambodian government. At the WPK's second congress in February 1963, Pol Pot was chosen to succeed Tou Samouth as the party's general secretary. Tou's allies Nuon Chea and Keo Meas were removed from the Central Committee and replaced by Son Sen and Vorn Vet. From then on, Pol Pot and loyal comrades from his Paris student days controlled the party center, edging out older veterans whom they considered excessively pro-Vietnamese.\n\nIn July 1963, Pol Pot and most of the central committee left Phnom Penh to establish an insurgent base in Ratanakiri Province in the northeast. Pol Pot had shortly before been put on a list of thirty-four leftists who were summoned by Sihanouk to join the government and sign statements saying Sihanouk was the only possible leader for the country. Pol Pot and Chou Chet were the only people on the list who escaped. All the others agreed to cooperate with the government and were afterward under 24-hour watch by the police.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the United States Department of State estimated the party membership to be approximately 100.\n\nThe region Pol Pot and the others moved to was inhabited by tribal minorities, the Khmer Loeu, whose rough treatment (including resettlement and forced assimilation) at the hands of the central government made them willing recruits for a guerrilla struggle. In 1965, Pol Pot made a visit of several months to North Vietnam and China. He probably received some training in China, which must have enhanced his prestige when he returned to the WPK's liberated areas. Despite friendly relations between Sihanouk and the Chinese, the latter kept Pol Pot's visit a secret from Sihanouk. In 1971, the party changed its name to the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK). The change in the name of the party was a closely guarded secret. Lower ranking members of the party and even the Vietnamese were not told of it and neither was the membership until many years later. The party leadership endorsed armed struggle against the government, then led by Prince Norodom Sihanouk. In 1967, several small-scale attempts at insurgency were made by the CPK but they met with little success.\n\nIn 1968, the Khmer Rouge launched a national insurgency across Cambodia. Though North Vietnam had not been informed of the decision, its forces provided shelter and weapons to the Khmer Rouge after the insurgency started. The guerrilla forces of the party were baptized as the Kampuchean Revolutionary Army. Vietnamese support for the insurgency made it impossible for the ineffective and poorly motivated Royal Cambodian Army to effectively counter it.\n\nThe political appeal of the Khmer Rouge was increased as a result of the situation created by the removal of Sihanouk as head of state in 1970. Premier Lon Nol, with the support of the National Assembly, deposed Sihanouk. Sihanouk, in exile in Beijing, made an alliance with the Kampuchean Communist Party and became the nominal head of a Khmer Rouge-dominated government-in-exile (known by its French acronym GRUNK) backed by the People's Republic of China. Sihanouk's popular support in rural Cambodia allowed the Khmer Rouge to extend its power and influence to the point that by 1973 it exercised \"de facto\" control over the majority of Cambodian territory, although only a minority of its population.\n\nThe relationship between the massive carpet bombing of Cambodia by the United States and the growth of the Khmer Rouge in terms of recruitment and popular support has been a matter of interest to historians. Some historians have cited the United States intervention and bombing campaign (spanning 1965–1973) as a significant factor leading to increased support of the Khmer Rouge among the Cambodian peasantry. However, Pol Pot biographer David Chandler argues that the bombing \"had the effect the Americans wanted – it broke the Communist encirclement of Phnom Penh\". Peter Rodman and Michael Lind claimed that the United States intervention saved Cambodia from collapse in 1970 and 1973. Craig Etcheson agreed that it was \"untenable\" to assert that United States intervention caused the Khmer Rouge victory while acknowledging that it may have played a small role in boosting recruitment for the insurgents. However, William Shawcross wrote that the United States bombing and ground incursion plunged Cambodia into the chaos Sihanouk had worked for years to avoid.\n\nThe Vietnamese intervention in Cambodia, launched at the request of the Khmer Rouge, has also been cited as a major factor in their eventual victory, including by Shawcross. Vietnam later admitted that it played \"a decisive role\" in their seizure of power. China \"armed and trained\" the Khmer Rouge during the civil war and continued to aid them years afterward.\n\nWhen the United States Congress suspended military aid to the Lon Nol government in 1973, the Khmer Rouge made sweeping gains in the country, completely overwhelming the Khmer National Armed Forces. On 17 April 1975, the Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh and overthrew the Khmer Republic, executing all its officers.\n\nThe leadership of the Khmer Rouge was largely unchanged between the 1960s and the mid-1990s. The Khmer Rouge leaders were mostly from middle-class families and had been educated at French universities.\n\nThe Standing Committee of the Khmer Rouge's Central Committee (Party Center) during its period of power consisted of the following:\n\nIn power, the Khmer Rouge carried out a radical program that included isolating the country from foreign influence, closing schools, hospitals and factories, abolishing banking, finance and currency, outlawing all religions, confiscating all private property and relocating people from urban areas to collective farms where forced labor was widespread. The purpose of this policy was to turn professional and urban Cambodians, or \"Old People\", into \"New People\" through agricultural labor. The goal was develop an economy based on the export of rice in order to later develop industry. The party adopted the slogan: \"If we have rice, we can have everything\". These actions and policies resulted in massive deaths through executions, work exhaustion, illness and starvation.\n\nIn Phnom Penh and other cities, the Khmer Rouge told residents that they would be moved only about \"two or three kilometers\" outside the city and would return in \"two or three days\". Some witnesses say they were told that the evacuation was because of the \"threat of American bombing\" and that they did not have to lock their houses since the Khmer Rouge would \"take care of everything\" until they returned. These were not the first evacuations of civilian populations by the Khmer Rouge. Similar evacuations of populations without possessions had been occurring on a smaller scale since the early 1970s.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge attempted to turn Cambodia into a classless society by depopulating cities and forcing the urban population into agricultural communes through brutal totalitarian methods. The entire population was forced to become farmers in labour camps. During their four years in power, the Khmer Rouge overworked and starved the population while at the same time executing selected groups who had the potential to undermine the new state (including intellectuals) and killing many others for even minor breaches of rules.\n\nThrough the 1970s and especially after mid-1975, the party was also shaken by factional struggles. There were even armed attempts to topple Pol Pot. The resultant purges reached a crest in 1977 and 1978 when thousands, including some important CPK leaders, were executed. The older generation of communists, suspected of having links with or sympathies for Vietnam, were targeted by the Pol Pot leadership.\n\nFor roughly two years after the CPK took power, it referred to itself as the Angkar (; pronounced ahngkah; meaning The Organization). However, Pol Pot publicly declared on 29 September 1977 the existence of the CPK in a five-hour-long speech. He revealed the true character of the supreme authority in Cambodia, an obscure ruling body that had been kept in seclusion.\n\nThe CPK had been extremely secretive throughout its existence. Before 1975, the secrecy was needed for the party's survival and Pol Pot and his closest associates had relied on continuing the extreme secrecy in order to consolidate their position against those they perceived as internal enemies during their first two years of power. The revelation of the CPK's existence shortly before Pol Pot was due to travel to Peking resulted from pressure from China on the Khmer Rouge leaders to acknowledge their true political identity at a time that they increasingly depended on China's assistance against the threats from Vietnam. Accordingly, Pol Pot in his speech claimed that the CPK's foundation had been in 1960 and emphasized its separate identity from Vietnamese communism. This secrecy continued even after the CPK took power. Unlike most communist leaders, Pol Pot was not the object of an open personality cult. It would be almost a year before it was confirmed that he was Saloth Sar, the man long cited as the CPK's general secretary.\n\nBecause of several years of border conflict and the flood of refugees fleeing Cambodia, relations between Cambodia and Vietnam deteriorated by December 1978. Fearing a Vietnamese attack, Pol Pot ordered a pre-emptive invasion of Vietnam on 18 April 1978. His Cambodian forces crossed the border and looted nearby villages. Despite Chinese aid, these Cambodian forces were repulsed by the Vietnamese.\n\nIn early 1979, a pro-Vietnamese group of CPK dissidents led by Pen Sovan held a congress (which they saw as the third party congress, therefore not recognizing the 1963, 1975 and 1978 party congresses as legitimate) near the Vietnamese border. Along with Heng Samrin, Pen Sovan was one of the foremost founding members of the Kampuchean United Front for National Salvation (KUFNS or FUNSK), after becoming disillusioned with the Khmer Rouge. Effectively, the CPK was then divided into two, with the Pen Sovan-led group constituting a separate party, the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Party (now the Cambodian People's Party).\n\nThe Vietnamese forces invaded Cambodia along with the KUFNS, capturing Phnom Penh on 7 January 1979. The Pen Sovan-led party was installed as the governing party of the new People's Republic of Kampuchea. The CPK led by Pol Pot withdrew its forces westwards to an area near the Thai border. With unofficial protection from elements of the Thai Army, it began guerrilla warfare against the PRK government. The party founded the Patriotic and Democratic Front of the Great National Union of Kampuchea as a united front in September 1979 to fight the PRK and the Vietnamese. The front was led by Khieu Samphan. In December 1979, the armed forces under the command of the party, what remained of the erstwhile People's National Liberation Armed Forces of Kampuchea, were renamed National Army of Democratic Kampuchea. In 1981, the party was dissolved and substituted by the Party of Democratic Kampuchea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55224048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55224048", "title": "Constituencies of Penang", "text": "Constituencies of Penang\n\nConstituencies in Penang are electoral divisions within the Malaysian state of Penang, of which there are two types. There are 13 Parliamentary Constituencies within the state, with each Parliamentary Constituency electing a single Member of Parliament into the Federal Parliament of Malaysia. Penang is also divided into 40 State Constituencies, with each State Constituency electing a single State Assemblyman into the Penang State Legislative Assembly.\n\nThe electoral divisions within Penang are arranged in such a way that a single Parliamentary Constituency contains between three to four State Constituencies. Parliamentary Constituencies are denoted by \"Pxxx\", whereas State Constituencies are denoted by \"Nxx\".\n\nThe Parliamentary and State Constituencies won by each political party are as follows. Note that the map is colour-coded to depict the incumbent party in every State Constituency. Parliamentary Constituencies are in red upper case lettering, whilst State Constituencies are in blue letters. \n\nThe Parliamentary and State Constituencies within the State of Penang are further listed below, along with the respective Members of Parliament and State Assemblymen.\n\n"}
{"id": "39500474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39500474", "title": "Corruption in Mexico", "text": "Corruption in Mexico\n\nCorruption in Mexico has permeated several segments of society – political, economic, and social – and has greatly affected the country's legitimacy, transparency, accountability, and effectiveness. Many of these dimensions have evolved as a product of Mexico's legacy of elite, oligarchic consolidation of power and authoritarian rule. \n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 135th place out of 180 countries.\n\nAlthough the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) came to power through cooptation and peace, it maintained power for 71 years straight (1929 to 2000) by establishing patronage networks and relying on personalistic measures. That is, Mexico functioned as a one-party state and was characterized by a system in which politicians provided bribes to their constituents in exchange for support and votes for reelection. This type of clientelism constructed a platform through which political corruption had the opportunity to flourish: little political competition and organization outside of the party existed; it was not possible to independently contest the PRI system. Political contestation equated to political, economic, and social isolation and neglect. The party remained securely in power, and government accountability was low. Hierarchization was the norm. Power was consolidated in the hands of an elite few, and even more narrowly, the president controlled almost all of the practical power across the three branches of government. This central figure had both the formal and informal power to exercise extralegal authority over the judiciary and legislature and to relegate these other branches to the executive's individual political will.\n\nBeyond this, few checks were set on elected officials’ actions throughout the PRI's unbroken reign. Consequently, sustained PRI rule yielded low levels of transparency and legitimacy within the councils of Mexico's government. 71 years of power provided an opportunity for corruption to accumulate and become increasingly complex. Civil society developed around economic interest aggregation that was organized by the clientelistic government; the PRI allowed citizens to collectively bargain under the condition that they would continue to provide political loyalty to the party. Anthony Kruszewski, Tony Payan, and Katheen Staudt explain, \n\nWith this type of institutionalized corruption, the political path in Mexico was very narrow. There were specified political participation channels (the party) and selective electoral mobilization (party members). These issues, deeply engrained in Mexico's political culture after over half a century's existence, have continued to generate and institutionalize political corruption in today's Mexico.\n\nMexico’s geographic location has played largely in the development of the country’s role in organized crime and drug trafficking. Not only is Mexico adjacent to the world’s largest illegal drug market – the United States – but it also borders Central America, a region of nations with a similarly high demand for drugs. This positions Mexican drug cartels at an advantage; demand for drugs is not simply confined to the Mexican state, but rather it extends to several other nearby countries. Because of this, Mexico’s borders are especially crucial to drug cartels and transnational criminal organizations (TCOs), which can exploit the borders as a passageway for contraband and as a method for consolidation of power.\n\nAs drug cartels and TCOs have increasingly made use of these areas, the groups have become progressively more complex, violent, and diverse. Trafficking has been accompanied by other forms of illegal activity – such as extortion, kidnappings, and political corruption – as disparate factions compete for control over the same, lucrative areas.\n\nThe Mexican government has historically accomplished very little in terms of effectively curbing the offenses of these TCOs and cartels, and has often actually been complicit in aiding their actions. Many of Mexico’s institutions – including those for law, policy, justice, and finance – function under a patron-client system in which officials receive money, political support, or other bribes from TCOs in exchange for minimal interference in, or impunity for, those criminal groups’ affairs. In these scenarios of narco-corruption, Mexico's power structure is defined by leaders who guide TCOs’ behaviors, receive payoffs, manipulate government resources, and align public policies with legislation that will further their personal and political objectives. These relationships have served as an impetus for new and problematic sources of violent, drug-related deaths, ineffective governance and policy implementation, terror-based TCO tactics, and a deepening drug market. Under this system, TCOs’ influence has extended beyond violent criminal activity or drug trade, and has reached into Mexico's institutional bases.\n\nThese networks – alongside a lack of government transparency and checks and balances – have allowed corruption in government to flourish.\n\nThe growing prevalence and diversification of organized crime is in many ways linked to the political changes that Mexico underwent in 2000. For the first time in 71 years, the PRI ceded power to a different party, the National Action Party (Mexico) (PAN). The traditional power structure, which had enabled patronage networks to flourish and TCOs to operate, became challenged by government forces that attempted to curb violence and illegal activity.\n\nHowever, social decomposition quickly followed the fall of the PRI. The PAN, never before in the seat of power, was in many ways inexperienced in broad governance, and criminal factions capitalized on the party's perceived weakness. New conflicts emerged among cartels, as different groups competed to further develop their criminal networks and to work against a political regime that struggled to fight corruption, establish legitimacy, and foster legislative effectiveness.\n\nDuring PAN President Felipe Calderón's administration, Mexico experienced a vast increase in organized crime. Anthony Kruszewski, Tony Payan, and Katheen Staudt note, In this, beyond further diversifying criminal activity, TCOs further developed their connections to Mexico's institutions and to corruption. Many members of the Federal Police and the Army joined TCOs, and participated in abuses against the citizenry. This corruption permeated the social atmosphere along the border, where violence became increasingly heightened and fatal.\nAttempting to combat this security crisis, Calderón deployed the military against criminal organizations along the border. However, rather than resolving the corruption and violence issues that pervaded the area, the army deepened problems and crime. Citizens claimed that armed soldiers, connected to TCOs through their own patronage networks, initiated abuses against the population, including illegal searches, unwarranted arrests, beatings, theft, rape, and torture.\n\nThe employment of the military by the Calderón administration exacerbated Mexico's violence and organized crime, adding human rights violations to the border's climate of lawlessness. Anthony Kruszewski, Tony Payan, and Katheen Staudt examine, The arrival of the military corresponded with institutional disintegration as the corruption of elected officials, soldiers, and police demonstrated the entrenched culture of dishonesty and illegality of Mexico's systems.\n\nTo redact the negative products of militia employment, Calderón changed his policy strategy to one of reconstruction – rebuilding the Federal Police to have an increase in technical and operational activities, to have more comprehensive offices and departments, and to have a more selective personnel recruitment process. These measures reduced some of the corruption that had been embedded under his administration, but still left many realms of Mexico in the clutches of institutional corruption.\n\nFollowing Calderón's administration, the PRI returned to power under President Enrique Peña Nieto. Although new hopes for a more safe and secure Mexico accompanied the change in office, residual problems from the previous administration continued to pervade the country. TCO violence remained high, local clientelism persisted, and the drug market continued to be profitable. With these issues still highly prominent and supported by corruption, the administration struggled to establish legitimacy and accountability within the councils of governance.\n\nThese issues of legitimacy became even more defined in 2014, when Peña Nieto became entangled in numerous corruption scandals. In the most prominent and controversial case, Peña Nieto, his wife Angélica Rivera, and his Finance Minister Luis Videgaray were criticized for purchasing multimillion-dollar houses from government contractors. Allegations of vast impropriety surrounded the deal, and citizens began to question the veracity and legitimacy of Peña Nieto's government. Moreover, when an investigation into these allegations was launched, Public Function Ministry head Virgilio Andrade – a close personal friend of President Peña Nieto – was put in charge, and many Mexicans cited the investigation as a conflict of interest in which \"the executive branch investigated itself.\"\n\nThis scandal brought about another controversy when investigative journalist Carmen Aristegui and two colleagues from MVS Radio were fired following their reports on the housing scandal. Their dismissal prompted protests and criticism, alongside a new dialogue of the Peña Nieto administration's use of “soft censorship”: \n\nAs of August 2016, only 23% of Mexicans approved of how Peña Nieto was dealing with corruption. by January 2017, the number had decreased to 12%.\n\nAmong the institutions organized crime pervaded and manipulated were the media. Many TCOs violently attacked media sources that reported stories of the gangs’, cartels’, and military's abuses and relationships with political elites. Consequently, many news organizations simply stopped publishing stories about the crimes. Freedom of expression and speech were increasingly limited as the media experienced violent disputes. Outside of TCOs, state apparatuses also worked to keep negative stories under wraps. Guadalupe Correa-Cabrera and José Nava explain: \nCompared to other Latin American countries, Mexico has the lowest rating for freedom of the press – press freedom watch groups have found that the country is one of the most dangerous in the world to be a professional journalist. The international human rights group Article 19 found that in 2014 alone, more than 325 journalists experienced aggressive action by government officials and organized crime, and five reporters were killed due to their line of work. Furthermore, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, since 2005, at least 32 journalists have been killed because of their profession in Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51711638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51711638", "title": "Cypriot nationalism", "text": "Cypriot nationalism\n\nCypriot nationalism, also known as Cypriotism, refers to one of the nationalisms of Cyprus. It focuses on the shared identity of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, highlighting their common culture, heritage, traditions, and economic, political, and social rights. Cypriot nationalism supports the reunification of Cyprus and the end of foreign interference by Greece, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Cypriotism tends to be anti-British, anti-Greek, and anti-Turkish, arguing that these nations have historically worked (and currently are working) against the interests of Cyprus' independence and people.\n\nOriginally, the idea of a common \"Cypriot identity\" was viewed very suspiciously by both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots; it was seen as an attempt by the British rulers of Cyprus to create an artificial identity for the island's inhabitants, in order to perpetuate their rule.\n\nHowever, with the rise of the internationalist ideas of both liberalism and the political Left, variants of a Cypriot identity began to be cultivated and espoused by native Cypriot political groups (both Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot), most notably the Progressive Party of Working People (AKEL), the liberal United Democrats and organisations like the Union of Cypriots. The Turkish invasion of Cyprus, which followed a coup d’état in Cyprus ordered by the military junta in Greece, led to a revival of Cypriot nationalism.\n\nCypriotism is strongly opposed by both Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot nationalists. \n\nAmong Greek Cypriots identifying as Greeks above all else, the central political slogan has always been \"Cyprus is Greek\". Political parties such as DIKO, EDEK and the Greek nationalist wing of DISY, as well as the Church of Cyprus, dismiss Cypriotism as a betrayal of Greek history and identity, and a sell-out to foreign interests who wish for Cyprus to submit to Turkish aggression.\n\nAmong Turkish Cypriots, the idea of Cypriotism was vociferously rejected by the long-serving Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktaş, who believed that \"in Cyprus there are Greeks and Turks\", and that \"the only true Cypriot is the Cyprus donkey\". Accordingly, UBP, the political party founded by him, believes that Cypriot nationalism is a Greek ploy to subjugate and assimilate Turkish Cypriots.\n\nPresident Tassos Papadopoulos, generally seen as a Greek nationalist, can be said to have adopted a strategy of Cypriot nationalism (called \"a strategy of osmosis\" by him) by which he offered individual benefits to Turkish Cypriots (such as Republic of Cyprus passports, free medical care, employment opportunities etc.) while at the same time maintaining a very hard line towards the (internationally unrecognised) breakaway Turkish Cypriot administration. Thus Papadopoulos hoped to cultivate an allegiance to the Government of Cyprus among some Turkish Cypriots, and exacerbate the already existing tensions between the Turkish Cypriots and the Turkish settlers in Northern Cyprus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899947", "title": "Dharma-yuddha", "text": "Dharma-yuddha\n\nDharma-yuddha is a Sanskrit word made up of two roots: \"dharma\" meaning righteousness, and \"yuddha\" meaning warfare. In the ancient Indian texts, dharma-yuddha refers to a war that is fought while following several rules that make the war fair.\n\nFor instance, in a righteous war, equals fight equals. Chariot warriors are not supposed to attack cavalry and infantry, those on elephants are not supposed to attack infantry, and so on. The rules also forbid the usage of celestial weapons (divine weapons bestowed by the gods) on ordinary soldiers (as opposed to soldiers of noble birth). The build-up of weapons and armies is done with the full knowledge of the opposing side and no surprise attacks are made. \n\nThe rules of engagement also set out how warriors were to deal with noncombatants. No one should attack an enemy who has temporarily lost or dropped their weapon. The lives of women, prisoners of war, and farmers were also sacred. Pillaging the land was forbidden. \n\nDharma-yuddha also signifies that the war is not fought for gain or selfish reasons. A dharma-yuddha is waged to uphold the principles of righteousness. \n\nIn the \"Mahabharata\" epic, which describes the Kurukshetra war, the two sides agree on the following rules: \n\n\nBeyond the \"Mahabharata\", the principles of dharma-yuddha are referred to in many other ancient Indian texts, including the \"Ramayana\" and the Dharmashastras or law texts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4813825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4813825", "title": "Divini Redemptoris", "text": "Divini Redemptoris\n\nDivini Redemptoris (Latin for Of the Divine Redeemer) is an anti-communist encyclical issued by Pope Pius XI. It was published on 19 March 1937. In this encyclical, the pope sets out to \"expose once more in a brief synthesis the principles of atheistic Communism as they are manifested chiefly in bolshevism\".\n\nMariano Cordovani O.P. (February 25, 1883 – April 4, 1950) professor of dogmatic theology at the College of Saint Thomas, the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" from 1912 to 1921 and Master of the Sacred Palace under Pope Pius XI contributed especially to the encyclical and afterward published his \"Appunti sul comunismo moderno\" treating the Church's position on communism.\n\nThe encyclical describes communism as \"a system full of errors and sophisms\" that \"subverts the social order, because it means the destruction of its foundations\" as well as removing women from their rightful place in the home.\n\nPius XI goes on to contrast Communism with the \"civitas humana\" (ideal human civilization), which is marked by love, respect for human dignity, economic justice, and the rights of workers. He faults industrialists and employers who do not adequately support their workers for creating a climate of discontent in which people are tempted to embrace Communism. He refers to two earlier papal writings on this topic, \"Rerum novarum\" and \"Quadragesimo anno\".\n\nThe work expresses concern at the growth of Communism in the Soviet Union, Spain, and Mexico, and it condemns the Western press for its apparent \"conspiracy of silence\" in failing to cover such events in those countries. It was published five days after the publication of the more controversial \"Mit brennender Sorge\" encyclical that condemned the German Nazi regime and ideology.\n\n"}
{"id": "26758489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26758489", "title": "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth", "text": "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth\n\n\"Economic Calculation In The Socialist Commonwealth\" is an article by Austrian School economist Ludwig von Mises. Its critique against economic calculation in a planned economy triggered the decades-long economic calculation debate.\n\nThe article was first published 1920 in German under the title \"Die Wirtschaftsrechnung im sozialistischen Gemeinwesen\" and based on a lecture Mises gave in 1919 as a response to a book by Otto Neurath, arguing for the feasibility of central planning. Mises argued that no prices for capital goods could be obtained in a socialist economy if the government owned the means of production since all exchanges would be internal transfers, rather than \"objects of exchange\", setting the price mechanism out of order.\n\nTwo years later, the essay was incorporated into Mises's \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "667057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667057", "title": "Electoral district", "text": "Electoral district\n\nAn electoral district, (election) precinct, election district, or legislative district, called a voting district by the US Census (also known as a constituency, riding, ward, division, electoral area, or electorate) is a territorial subdivision for electing members to a legislative body. Generally, only voters (constituents) who reside within the district are permitted to vote in an election held there. From a single district, a single member or multiple members might be chosen. Members might be chosen by a first-past-the-post system or a proportional representative system, or another voting method entirely. Members might be chosen through a direct election under universal suffrage, an indirect election, or another form of suffrage.\n\nThe names for electoral districts vary across countries and, occasionally, for the office being elected. The term \"constituency\" is commonly used to refer to an electoral district, especially in British English, but it can also refer to the body of eligible voters or all the residents of the represented area or only those who voted for a certain candidate. The terms \"(election) precinct\" and \"election district\" are more common in American English. In Australia and New Zealand, electoral districts are called \"electorates\", however elsewhere the term \"electorate\" generally refers specifically to the body of voters.\nIn India electoral districts are referred to as \"Nirvachan Kshetra\" () in Hindi, which can be literally translated to English as \"electoral area\" though the official English translation for the term is \"constituency\". The term \"Nirvachan Kshetra\" is used while referring to an electoral district in general irrespective of the legislature. When referring to a particular legislatorial constituency, it is simply referred to as \"Kshetra\" along with the name of the legislature, in Hindi (e.g.-'Lok Sabha Kshetra' for a Lok Sabha Constituency). Electoral districts for municipal or other local bodies are called \"wards\".\nIn Canada, districts are colloquially called \"ridings\" (stemming from an earlier British geographical subdivision); in French, \"circonscription\" or (colloquially) \"comté\", \"county.\" Local electoral districts are sometimes called \"wards\", a term which also designates administrative subdivisions of a municipality. In local government in the Republic of Ireland voting districts are called \"electoral areas\".\n\n\"District magnitude\" is the number of representatives elected from a given district to the same legislative body. A \"single-member district\" has one representative, while a \"multi-member district\" has more than one. Voting systems that seek proportional representation (such as the single transferable vote) inherently require multi-member districts, and the larger the district magnitude the more proportional a system will tend to be (and the greater the number of distinct parties or choices that can be represented.) Non-proportional systems may use multi-member districts, as in the House of Commons until 1950, Singapore's Group Representation Constituency, or the New Hampshire House of Representatives.\n\nUnder proportional representation systems, district magnitude is an important determinant of the makeup of the elected body. With a larger number of winners, candidates are able to represent proportionately smaller minorities; a 10% minority in a given district may secure no seats in a 5-member election but would be guaranteed a seat in a 9-member one because they fulfill a Droop quota.\n\nThe geographic distribution of minorities also affects their representation - an unpopular nationwide minority can still secure a seat if they are concentrated in a particular district. District magnitude can sometimes vary within the same system during an election. In the Republic of Ireland, for instance, national elections to Dáil Éireann are held using a combination of 3, 4, and 5 member districts. In Hong Kong, the magnitude ranged from 3 to 5 in 1998, when the current electoral system \nwas introduced for Legislative Council geographical constituency elections, and will range from 5 to 9 in the forthcoming election in September 2012.\n\nThe only democracies with one single nationwide electoral district and no other territorial correctors are Fiji, Israel, The Netherlands, Moldova, Mozambique, Slovakia and South Africa.\n\n\"Apportionment\" is the process of allocating a number of representatives to different regions, such as states or provinces. Apportionment changes are often accompanied by \"redistricting\", the redrawing of electoral district boundaries to accommodate the new number of representatives. This redrawing is necessary under single-member district systems, as each new representative requires their own district. Multi-member systems, however, vary depending on other rules. Ireland, for example, redraws its electoral districts after every census while Belgium uses its existing administrative boundaries for electoral districts and instead modifies the number of representatives allotted to each. Israel and the Netherlands avoid the need for apportionment entirely by electing legislators at-large.\n\nApportionment is generally done on the basis of population. Seats in the United States House of Representatives, for instance, are reapportioned to individual states every 10 years following a census, with some states that have grown in population gaining seats. By contrast, seats in the Cantonal Council of Zürich are reapportioned in every election based on the number of votes cast in each district, which is only made possible by use of multi-member districts, and the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by contrast, is apportioned without regard to population; the three major ethnic groups - Bosniaks, Serbs, and Croats - each get exactly five members. \"Malapportionment\" occurs when voters are under- or over-represented due to variation in district population.\n\nGiven the complexity of this process, software is increasingly used to simplify the task, while better supporting reproducible and more justifiable results. \n\n\"Gerrymandering\" is the manipulation of electoral district boundaries for political gain. By creating a few \"forfeit\" districts where opposing candidates win overwhelmingly, gerrymandering politicians can manufacture more, but narrower, wins for themselves and their party. Gerrymandering relies on the wasted-vote effect, effectively concentrating wasted votes among opponents while minimizing wasted votes among supporters. Consequently, gerrymandering is typically done under voting systems using single-member districts, which have more wasted votes.\n\nWhile much more difficult, gerrymandering can also be done under proportional-voting systems when districts elect very few seats. By making three-member districts in regions where a particular group has a slight majority, for instance, gerrymandering politicians can obtain 2/3 of that district's seats. Similarly, by making four-member districts in regions where the same group has slightly less than a majority, gerrymandering politicians can still secure exactly half of the seats.\n\nHowever, any possible gerrymandering that theoretically could occur would be much less effective because minority groups can still elect at least one representative if they make up a significant percentage of the population (e.g. 20-25%). Compare this to single-member districts where 40-49% of the voters can be essentially shut out from any representation.\n\nSometimes, particularly under non-proportional winner-take-all voting systems, electoral districts can be prone to landslide victories. A \"safe seat\" is one that is very unlikely to be won by a rival politician due to the makeup of its constituency. Conversely, a \"swing seat\" is one that could easily \"swing\" either way. In United Kingdom general elections and United States presidential and congressional elections, the voting in a relatively small number of swing seats usually determines the outcome of the entire election. Many politicians aspire to have safe seats. \nIn large multi-party systems like India, swing seats can lead to a Hung assembly like situation if a significant number of seats go for regional parties instead of the larger national parties who are the main competitors at the national or state level, as was the situation in the Lok Sabha (Lower house of The Parliament of India) during the decade of the 1990s.\n\nElected representatives may spend much of the time serving the needs or demands of individual \"constituents\", meaning either voters or residents of their district. This is more common in assemblies with many single-member or small districts than those with fewer, larger districts. In a looser sense, corporations and other such organizations can be referred to as constituents, if they have a significant presence in an area.\n\nMany assemblies allow free postage (through franking privilege or prepaid envelopes) from a representative to a constituent, and often free telecommunications. Caseworkers may be employed by representatives to assist constituents with problems. Members of the U.S. Congress (both Representatives and Senators) working in Washington, D.C. have a governmentally staffed district office to aid in \"constituent services\". Many state legislatures have followed suit. Likewise, British MPs use their Parliamentary staffing allowance to appoint staff for \"constituency casework\". Client politics and pork barrel politics are associated with constituency work.\n\nIn some elected assemblies, some or all constituencies may group voters based on some criterion other than, or in addition to, the location they live. Examples include:\n\nNot all democratic political systems use separate districts or other electoral subdivisions to conduct elections. Israel, for instance, conducts parliamentary elections as a single district, while the 26 electoral districts in Italy and the 20 in the Netherlands have a role in the actual election, but no role whatsoever in the division of the seats. Ukraine elected half of the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian Parliament) in this way in the elections in October 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "42831222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42831222", "title": "Environmentally extended input-output analysis", "text": "Environmentally extended input-output analysis\n\nEnvironmentally extended input-output analysis (EEIOA) is used in environmental accounting as a tool which reflects production and consumption structures within one or several economies. As such, it is becoming an important addition to material flow accounting.\n\nIn recognition of the increasing importance of global resource use mediated by international trade for environmental accounting and policy, new perspectives have been and are currently being developed within environmental accounting. The most prominent among these are consumption-based accounts compiled using environmentally extended input-output analysis. Consumption-based indicators of material use are commonly referred to as “material footprints” (comparable to carbon footprints and water footprints) or as raw material equivalents (RME) for imported and exported goods. Raw material equivalents or material footprints of traded goods comprise the material inputs required along the entire supply chain associated with their production. This includes both direct and indirect flows: For example, the ore mined to extract the metal contained in a mobile phone as well as the coal needed to generate the electricity needed to produce the metal concentrates would be included. In order to allocate domestic extraction to exported goods, information on the production and trade structure of an economy is required. In monetary terms, information on the production structure is contained in commonly available economy-wide input-output tables (IOT) which recently have been combined with trade statistics to form multi-regional IO (MRIO) tables.\n\nIn the following, a short introduction to input-output analysis and its environmental extension for the calculation of material footprints or RME indicators is provided.\nThe inter-industry flows within an economy form an matrix and the total output of each industry is forms an vector . By dividing each flow into an industry (i.e., each element of ) by the total output of that same industry, we obtain an matrix of so-called technical coefficients . In matrix algebra, this reads as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere:\n\nMatrix contains the multipliers for the inter-industry inputs required to supply one unit of industry output. A certain total economic output is required to satisfy a given level of final demand . This final demand may be domestic (for private households as well as the public sector) or foreign (exports) and can be written as an vector. When this vector of final demand is multiplied by the Leontief inverse , we obtain total output . is the identity matrix so that the following matrix equation is the result of equivalence operations in our previous equation:\n\nformula_4\n\nThe Leontief inverse contains the multipliers for the direct and indirect inter-industry inputs required to provide 1 unit of output to final demand. Next to the inter-industry flows recorded in , each industry requires additional inputs (e.g. energy, materials, capital, labour) and outputs (e.g. emissions) which can be introduced into the calculation with the help of an environmental extension. This commonly takes the shape of an matrix of total factor inputs or outputs: Factors are denoted in a total of rows and the industries by which they are required are included along columns. Allocation of factors to the different industries in the compilation of the extension matrix requires careful review of industry statistics and national emissions inventories. In case of lacking data, expert opinions or additional modelling may be required to estimate the extension. Once completed, can be transformed into a direct factor requirements matrix per unit of useful output , and the calculation is analogous to determination of the monetary direct multipliers matrix (see first equation):\n\nformula_5\n\nConsumption-based accounting of resource use and emissions can be performed by post-multiplying the monetary input-output relation by the industry-specific factor requirements:\n\nformula_6\n\nThis formula is the core of environmentally extended input-output analysis: The final demand vector can be split up into a domestic and a foreign (exports) component, which makes it possible to calculate the material inputs associated with each.\n\nThe matrix integrates material flow data into input-output analysis. It allows us to allocate economy-wide material requirements to specific industries. With the help of the coefficients contained in the Leontief inverse , the material requirements can be allocated to domestic or foreign (exports) final demand. In order to consider variations in production structures across different economies or regions, national input-output tables are combined to form so-called multi-regional input-output (MRIO) models. In these models, the sum total of resources allocated to final consumption equals the sum total of resources extracted, as recorded in the material flow accounts for each of the regions.\n\nEnvironmentally extended input-output analysis comes with a number of assumptions which have to be kept in mind when interpreting the results of such studies:\n\nHomogeneity of products: Calculations based on the standard IO model make it necessary to assume that each economic activity produces only one physically homogeneous product. In reality, however, the high level of aggregation of activities (e.g., in most European IO tables, all mining is included in the same activity irrespective of the specific material) leads to inhomogeneous outputs. In addition, many industries generate by-products (e.g., a paper mill may also produce saw dust); and this additionally violates the assumption of homogeneity of outputs. Along the same lines, when this method is used to ascribe environmental impacts, not all the products in a given sector have the same emissions. An average is used. But for instance in terms of power generation, the emissions from coal based power generation are very different from those of solar power generation. An assumption is made here that the global mixture is being used, when actually power generation may be available only from one source.\nHomogeneity of prices: In using the standard IO model, it is also necessary to assume that each industry sells its characteristic output to all other economic activities and to final consumers at the same price. In reality, however, this is not always true as illustrated by the example of electricity which costs less in the primary than in the tertiary sectors and/or final consumption. In addition, the aforementioned heterogeneity of industry output will cause this assumption to be violated: For example, a sector buying mostly aluminum from the non-ferrous metal industries is likely to pay a different price than a sector that mostly buys rare earth metals.\nConstant Returns to Scale: IO models assume that when production is scaled, all the inputs and outputs scale by the same factor.\nAllocation of investments: In creating a consumption-based account of material flows, it is necessary to decide how investments are allocated within the production and consumption structure. In national accounting, investments are reported as part of final demand. From a consumption-based perspective, they can also be thought of as an input into the production process (e.g., machinery and production infrastructure are necessary inputs to production). The manner in which capital investments are included and how (or if) they are depreciated, significantly impacts the results obtained for the raw material equivalents of exports. If infrastructure investments (whether in monetary terms or as domestic extraction of construction materials) are not depreciated over time, importing one and the same product from an emerging economy currently building up its infrastructure will be associated with much more embodied material than importing it from a mature economy which has significantly invested into its infrastructure in the past.\n\nUnderstanding the impact and eventually resolving these methodological issues will become important items on the environmental accounting research agenda. At the same time, interest is already growing in the interpretability of the results of such consumption-based approaches. It has yet to be determined how responsibility for material investments into the production of exports should be shared in general: While it is true that the importing economy receives the benefit of the ready-made product, it is also true that the exporting economy receives the benefit of income.\n\n"}
{"id": "25601365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25601365", "title": "Faggot voter", "text": "Faggot voter\n\nA faggot voter or faggot was a person who qualified to vote in an election with a restricted suffrage only by the exploitation of loopholes in the regulations. Typically, faggot voters satisfied a property qualification by holding the title to a subdivision of a large property with a single beneficial owner. Faggot voting was a common electoral abuse in the United Kingdom until the electoral reforms of the late 19th century. Faggot voting was abolished by the Representation of the People Act 1884.\n\nPolitical reform continued during the Victorian era, eventually leading to universal suffrage. The notion of faggot voting became an archaic curiosity and the term fell into disuse. It is now rarely mentioned.\n\nThe word \"faggot\" originally meant a piece or bundle of gathered firewood. It was later applied to civilians added to a military muster roll purely to make up the numbers rather than to serve as soldiers. The extension from muster rolls to electoral rolls is attested from 1817. The use of the word in an electoral context has nothing to do with many other uses of the word, such as cuisine known as a \"faggot\", \"faggotting\" in terms of knitting, and the more recently common sense of \"faggot\" as a pejorative for someone known as or perceived as homosexual, bisexual, or transgender.\n\nIn the unreformed House of Commons, and for decades after the Reform Act 1832, the qualifications for voting varied between different constituencies. However in many constituencies, suffrage was restricted to those with an \"interest\" (i.e. in property) in the constituency, i.e. real estate. If a landowner subdivided a single property into multiple units, and transferred the title of each unit into the name of a separate person, each titleholder could then register to vote. These \"faggot voters\" would generally vote according to the wishes of the original landowner. The lack of a secret ballot ensured that the \"faggot\" complied with the landowner's wishes. Prohibition of vote buying was difficult to enforce if the faggot was an employee of the landowner. There was no requirement for a voter to be resident in the constituency; the landowner and faggot voter might both reside outside the constituency.\n\nAlthough the original forty shilling freehold suffrage of 1432 applied to freehold rather than leasehold, it had been widened gradually over the centuries, increasing the number of loopholes by which faggot voters might register. Edward Porritt found the earliest instances of faggot voting in the 1620s under Charles I. The Parliamentary Elections Act 1695 (7 & 8 Will. III c.25) prohibited subdivision of tenements for this purpose. In the 18th century, a freehold would be conveyed to the faggot just before the election, and back again straight after the vote.\n\nThe Sheriffs of the City of London are elected by the Liverymen of the Livery Companys. Richard Causton, himself an MP and liveryman, said in the debate on the Local Government Act 1888 that \"anyone who wanted a vote could go down to the City with £12 in his pocket, and get the right to vote ... There were liverymen who had no connection with the City beyond the fact that they were faggot voters\". His amendment to restrict the vote to \"men who had business in the City of London\" was defeated.\n\nSubdivision of property other than to bona fide titleholders was prohibited for the franchise in borough constituencies by the Representation of the People Act 1867 and in county constituencies by the Representation of the People Act 1884. However, previously enrolled faggot voters retained their vote until death. This was rendered irrelevant by the Representation of the People Act 1918, which introduced manhood suffrage, and abolished virtually all property qualifications.\n\n"}
{"id": "57841173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57841173", "title": "Fifth Colijn cabinet", "text": "Fifth Colijn cabinet\n\nThe Fifth Colijn was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 25 July 1939 until 10 August 1939. The cabinet was formed by the political parties Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP), Christian Historical Union (CHU) and the Liberal State Party (LSP) following the fall of the Fourth Colijn cabinet on 29 June 1939. The right-wing cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives. It was the last of five cabinets of Hendrikus Colijn, the Leader of the Anti-Revolutionary Party as Prime Minister. The cabinet was dismissed by Queen Wilhelmina just 2 days after taking office on 27 July 1939.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44169484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44169484", "title": "Genetically modified food in Hawaii", "text": "Genetically modified food in Hawaii\n\nGenetic engineering in Hawaii is a hotly contested political topic. The Hawaiian islands counties of Kauai, Hawaii and Maui passed or considered laws restricting the practice within their borders due to concerns about the health, the environment and impacts on conventional and organic agriculture.\n\nHawaii is attractive to researchers and seed companies because of its moderate year-round climate—an average of , which allows 3 or more harvests per year, greatly reducing the length of time required to develop a new seed.\n\nThe main companies working with genetically modified crops in Hawaii are Monsanto, Syngenta, Pioneer Hi-Bred, BASF, Mycogen Seeds and Agrigentics.\n\nGene manipulation is generally conducted elsewhere. Hawaii sites cross the engineered strains with other strains to eliminate undesirable traits and cultivate the hybrids to produce seeds that are then planted elsewhere.\n\nIn the 1960s James Brewbaker, a recently arrived researcher at the University of Hawaii, noticed he could plant three crops a year in Hawaii's warm climate instead of one as on the mainland.\n\nSeed companies began operating in Hawaii soon after, decades before genetic engineering was possible. Some 90 percent of U.S. corn strains were partially developed in Hawaii. DuPont subsidiary Pioneer Hi-Bred International began producing GM corn and soy in Hawaii in the mid-1990s, when the FDA approved the crops for commercial sale.\n\nAs of 2008, Hawaii had been the site of more than 2,230 field trials of genetically modified (GM) crops, including corn, soybeans, cotton, potatoes, wheat, alfalfa, beets, rice, safflower and sorghum. This rose to 3,236 as of 2014.\n\nIn 2008, Hawaii farmers produced 1.67 million tons of raw sugar, nearly one million tons less than a decade earlier; only were planted in pineapples in 2006 [the latest year for which pineapple statistics are available) compared with 76,700 acres in 1991.\n\nOther major crops include flowers and nursery plants, macadamia nuts, coffee, milk, algae, tomatoes, bananas and papayas.\n\nIn 2008 Some were dedicated to GM crops across the state, of which 3,500 were corn and soybean seed crops, 1,000 acres papaya, and the remainder field trials for GM crops. As of 2013 this had increased to of the state's 280,000 acres of agricultural land, on the islands of Kauai, Oahu, Maui and Molokai. Nearly fifty percent of the total (11,000 acres) is on Kauai.\n\nSeeds yielded $264 million in 2012, supporting 1,400 workers. Seeds exceeded the value of the state's next several largest crops combined—including sugarcane and macadamia nuts. As of 2008 genetically engineered corn seed was the top crop by value in Hawaii. It made up 92 percent of the state's GM seed industry.\n\nSeeds containing government-approved modifications are grown in the islands to evaluate how they perform in the field, to be crossed with unmodified strains to further improve the strain and to produce seed for sale. Cultivating corn seed involves having workers place paper bags over the tassels to catch pollen for use in hand pollinating other plots. At Syngenta plants are individually barcoded, then paper punches are used to take leaf cuttings that are freeze dried and genetically analyzed in North Carolina. The analysis indicates whether each plant has the desired suite of traits. Undesirable plants are uprooted and the rest cultivated through another cycle.\n\nSuccessful strains are then planted in places such as Missouri, Manitoba, Canada and Mexico to make sure the corn is able to thrive in varied situations before they are marketed.\n\nDeveloping a new seed variety takes 10–12 growth cycles or 3–7 years, a fraction of the 13 years on the mainland.\n\nAn outbreak of papaya ringspot virus in the mid-'90s decimated Hawaii's papaya trees. GM papaya, endowed with a gene from the virus, immunized the tree. Both Japanese and American regulators approved the modified papaya. It subsequently reduced the use of pesticides that growers had used to control the virus-carrying aphids.\n\nIn 2010 Hawaii Island had around 200 papaya farmers. Papayas were the US' only commercial GM fruit and accounted for three-quarters of the island's 30 million pound harvest. GM papaya was developed primarily by academic scientists. Its lead developer was Hawaii-born Dennis Gonsalves. He and his team were awarded the 2002 Humboldt Prize for the most significant contribution to US agriculture in five years.\n\nGM papaya is largely self-pollinating. If planted about 12 or more feet away from other varieties, little cross-pollination occurs.\n\nCritic Jeffrey Smith claimed that it could harm people because of the protein produced by the new gene and that no studies had been conducted. Gonsalves claimed that ringspot-infected papaya contained that same protein and that people had been eating infected papaya for decades with no ill effects.\n\nOne night in July 2011 thousands of papaya trees were destroyed on 10 acres of Hawaii Island farmland. Some farmers and Kevin Richards, director of regulatory relations for the American Farm Bureau Federation, called the attack an act of eco-terrorism.\n\nThe University of Hawaii has conducted research on disease-resistant bananas, a new variety of papaya, Spanish lime, the potential of gene flow between cotton strains, animal genomes and Acacia koa.\n\nIn 2012 Monsanto donated $600,000 for student scholarships to the University's College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources, an amount that the college claimed represented about 1 percent of its budget. In 2014, The Monsanto Fellowship Awards award CTARH 120,000.\n\nThis public-private humanitarian project is led by African Agricultural Technology Foundation, a Kenyan non-governmental organization. It is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It combines conventional breeding and genetic engineering.Monsanto donated its genetic engineering technology and Maui-grown seeds with insect and drought tolerance traits.\n\nThis humanitarian effort is led by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico, funded by the Gates foundation and the US Agency for International Development. Pioneer donates testing and breeding resources from Kauai. The project is developing nitrogen-efficient hybrids that can improve yields on African soils. The product will be made available royalty-free to seed companies.\n\nSince their inception genetically engineered crops have been subject to a variety of concerns, which in some jurisdictions led to restrictions on research, cultivation and/or consumption.\n\nAs with any pesticide use, pests can become resistant to those used with (or incorporated into) GM crops.\n\nFor example, Bt corn incorporates the insecticidal \"cry\" genes from the \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" bacteria. Organic farmers have long used the bacteria as an insecticide. If insects become resistant, organic farmers will have to look elsewhere. \"One of the biggest concerns with growing crops like Bt corn is that you're putting insects under the greatest selection pressure to become resistant to Bt\", according to Bill Freese of the Center For Food Safety.\n\nGene flow occurs when genes migrate from one strain to another by unintended pollination. Organic farmers continue to grow conventional (non-GM) papayas in Hawaii. Organic farmers and environmental organizations in Hawaii have expressed concern that crops grown from ostensibly non-GM seeds may test positive for modifications. This concern led South Korea to stop buying papayas from Hawaii Island and led Japan to require organic papaya farmers to test their crops.\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration does not require GM foods to be labeled, instead claiming that GM crops are as safe as crops developed by conventional breeding.\n\nThe European Food Safety Authority certifies new GM products as safe for consumers and the environment. The European Union's 27 member states then individually decide whether to accept the certification. Genetically modified foods must be labeled. As of 2008 Bt corn had been approved to grow in Spain, Germany, the Czech Republic and Portugal.\n\nThe seed companies conduct the safety tests for new GM food products, reporting safety and nutritional information to the FDA for its evaluation.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2008, students and teachers at Kauai's Waimea Canyon Middle School, which is near a Syngenta field, repeatedly complained of noxious odors. At one point, the buildings were evacuated and \"some kids went to the hospital\". Some doctors found unusually high rates of asthma, cancer and birth defects there.\n\nA state report found that cancer incidence on Kauai, including the region around the school, was generally the same or lower than the state as a whole. Another study, paid for by the state and county, claimed that the odors were from stinkweed.\n\nVoluntary reporting by the companies showed substantial use of chlorpyrifos, which at sufficient doses can have neurological impacts on children.\n\n\"Use of conventional pesticides recommended for control of the European corn borer has dropped by about one-third since Bt corn was introduced,” according to the US Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nPioneer Hi-Bred claimed that since 1996 \"over a trillion meals containing biotech ingredients have been consumed in the U.S. with no documented negative health impacts.\"\n\nCultural practitioners claimed that GMOs were not part of traditional Hawaiian agriculture and did not belong in Hawaii. \n\nThree of Hawaii's four counties have adopted or considered local regulation of pesticides, GMOs or both.\n\nThe Kauai County Council passed a law in 2013, over the mayor's veto, to require large farms to create 500 foot buffer zones around their fields and to disclose the pesticides that they use. Seed companies Syngenta, Pioneer, BASF and Agrigentics sued to stop the law, claiming that state and federal regulations were adequate.\n\nIn August 2014 US District Court of Hawaii judge Barry Kurren overturned the law, finding for the plaintiffs. The judge found that \"the Ordinance is pre-empted by state law and is therefore invalid\".\n\nAfter it was overturned, Syngenta claimed that it had been voluntarily notifying nearby schools and residences one week before any pesticide applications and that while the law required 500 feet buffers, the company had not farmed within 1,500 feet of any dwelling for years.\n\nIn November 2008 the Hawaii County Council (county legislature) voted to ban the growth of GM taro (a Hawaiian staple) and coffee to prevent GM crop pollen from reaching other strains.\n\nIn 2013 a second bill banned the cultivation of any GM crop on the island, grandfathering in papaya and corn planted by a dairy to feed its cows. Field tests to study new GM crops were prohibited. Penalties were set at $1,000 per day.\n\nIn 2014, 9,000 Maui citizens signed a petition sponsored by the SHAKA Movement calling for a moratorium on GMO production and research. The initiative specified penalties including fines and jail for knowing violations and did not limit its scope to commercial agriculture. The initiative was to be voted on in the November 2014 election. \n\nProponents claimed that the moratorium would affect only 2% of the island's agricultural acreage and 1% of existing farms.\n\nProponent Ashley Lukens, Hawaii Center for Food Safety Director said, \"Hawaii hosts more genetic engineering test sites than any other state. We had 1,124 field tests last year. California had 184.\"\n\nOpposing group Citizens Against the Maui County Farming Ban Initiative claimed that the measure was 'anti-farming' and would cost the county 600 jobs. Other opponents including former State Attorney General Michael Lilly and Mayor Alan Arakawa who claimed that the initiative was poorly drafted. Mycogen employee Adolph Helm was claimed by a moratorium proponent to be the leader of the opponents.\n\nThe initiative passed on November 4 by about 50.2 to 47.9 percent, with the remaining ballots left blank. Federal U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry Kurren said Maui County may not implement until he considers arguments in a lawsuit against the measure. Both sides have agreed to delay the date the law goes into effect. Monsanto Co. and a unit of Dow Chemical Co. sued the county to stop the law. Company employees and Maui County businesses joined the lawsuit. The suit claimed that the law would harm the economy and their businesses, citing the Kauai County case. They continued that the state, and not the county, has jurisdiction. The county and the plaintiffs must provide arguments for their position by December 1. Initiative supporters filed a separate suit in state court, attempting to compel the county to implement the law.\n\nThe next sections summarize the initiative.\n\nGM agriculture threatens Hawaiian culture, the rest of Maui agriculture, human health and the environment. The detailed claims were:\n\n\nThe initiative claimed that localities have the right to regulate GM crops because:\n\n\nThe stated purposes of the ordinance are to:\n\nThe moratorium ordinance prohibits propagating, cultivating or testing GMOs within the County.\n\nThe moratorium does not apply to: GMO crops in mid-growth cycle when the moratorium is enacted, GM products that have been incorporated into food or medicine already prepared for consumption; licensed health practitioners whose practice employs GMOs; and non-commercial research conducted under enclosed indoor laboratory conditions by accredited colleges or universities.\n\nThe moratorium is lifted once an Environmental and Public Health Impacts Study (EPHIS) approved by 6 of the 9 Council members and a public hearing is completed. The Council must further determine that the GMOs provide health benefits and protect the County's natural beauty and natural resources.\n\nThe initiative does not include specific restrictions on GM agriculture following the end of the moratorium.\n\nLifting the moratorium requires an Environmental and Public Health Impacts Study (EPHIS) conducted by the County through a two-phase, community-based process. The EPHIS must be funded by private entities.\n\nWithin ninety days of receiving such funding, the Council is to create a Joint Fact Finding Group (JFFG) of scientists and health experts with no GM industry ties, facilitated by a professional consultant, to design the study. The JFFG shall notify the community and allow a thirty-day public input period. The final scope, design, results and raw data must be published on the County's website. The study's minimum scope includes the potential for:\n\n\nThe EPHIS must be conducted by a non-biased, professional consultant independent of GE industry ties overseen by the JFFG and completed within eighteen months of the publication of the study's final scope and design. The process includes a ninety-day public comment period with four public hearings, including one on Molokai. The study must address relevant information, data, comments and public concerns. The study may recommend actions for the County to address significant effects on the environment, Public Trust Resources and public health. The final results and all raw data must be published on the County's website.\n\nThe County may implement regulations to manage the moratorium, but the regulations may not create any exemptions from the ordinance.\n\nThe County may seek a court order to enjoin any person or entity from violating the ordinance.\n\nCivil penalties are:\n\nEach day of violation is considered a separate violation.\n\nCriminal penalties are in addition to civil penalties. Violations are misdemeanors punishable by a fine of up to $2,000, or imprisonment for up to one year, or both, for each offense. Each additional post-conviction day of violation constitutes an additional offense. In addition, 60 days after a notification of noncompliance, the County may enter the property and remove infringing crops at the violator's expense.\n\nSixty days after notifying the County and the alleged violator, any injured citizen may seek an injunction against the violation. The court may award the plaintiff reasonable costs and attorney fees, but not punitive damages.\n\nSyngenta earns $4 billion on its Bt corn, vegetable and flower seeds, which are grown in 90 countries. As of 2014 it cultivated 4,000 acres on Kauai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1938004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938004", "title": "Golden Dawn (political party)", "text": "Golden Dawn (political party)\n\nThe Popular Association – Golden Dawn (, \"Laïkós Sýndesmos – Chrysí Avgí\"), usually known simply as Golden Dawn (, \"Chrysí Avgí\" ), is an ultranationalist, far-right political party in Greece. It is led by Nikolaos Michaloliakos.\n\nScholars and media have described it as neo-Nazi and fascist, though the group rejects these labels. Members have expressed admiration of the former Greek dictator Ioannis Metaxas of the 4th of August Regime (1936–1941). They have also made use of alleged Nazi symbolism, and have praised figures of Nazi Germany in the past. According to academic sources, the group is racist and xenophobic, and the party's leader has openly identified it as nationalist and racist. Many groups and political parties advocate for the Greek government to dissolve Golden Dawn.\n\nMichaloliakos began the foundations of what would become Golden Dawn in 1980, when he published the first issue of the right-wing, pro-military junta journal with that name. In this context, Golden Dawn had its origins in the movement that worked towards a return to right-wing military dictatorship in Greece.\n\nFollowing an investigation into the murder of anti-fascist rapper Pavlos Fyssas in September 2013 by a supporter of the party, Michaloliakos and several other Golden Dawn MPs and members were arrested and held in pre-trial detention on suspicion of forming a criminal organization. The trial began on 20 April 2015 and is ongoing as of 2018.\n\nGolden Dawn first received widespread attention in 1991, and in 1993 registered as a political party. By this time Golden Dawn had adopted several southern Balkan focused regional objectives as its main programme: to promote the idea of a Greater Greece through the expansion of Greek territory into southern Albania (Northern Epirus), the Republic of Macedonia, and southern Bulgaria, and ultimately Greece's reconquest of Constantinople (modern day Istanbul) and western Anatolia through war with Turkey. They also called to push for the complete Hellenisation of Greek Macedonia and Western Thrace through the expulsion of Northern Greece's last remaining Macedonian-speaking minority (or so-called Slavophone Greeks) and the Turkish-speaking Muslim minority of East Macedonia and Thrace that were settled during the Ottoman period (see Western Thrace Turks). They also aspire \"to combat Islam in the region\", such as through contributing fighters to the Greek Volunteer Guard that helped capture Srebrenica.\n\nBy the mid-2000s, Golden Dawn had redirected its attention to opposing non-European, and particularly Muslim, immigration into the mainly Greek areas of southern Greece and Athens. Golden Dawn had temporarily ceased political operations in 2005 and was absorbed by the Patriotic Alliance. The Alliance, in turn, ceased operations after Michaloliakos withdrew support in the spring of 2007. Golden Dawn held its sixth congress, in March 2007, where party officials announced the resumption of political activities. At local elections on 7 November 2010 Golden Dawn got 5.3% of the vote in the municipality of Athens, winning a seat at the City Council. In some neighbourhoods with large immigrant communities it reached 20%.\n\nThe party ran a campaign during the May 2012 Greek national elections based on concerns about unemployment, austerity, the economy, and immigration, which gained a large increase in support from the Greek electorate. It received 7% of the popular vote, enough for the party to enter the Hellenic Parliament for the first time with 21 seats. Following a second election in June 2012, this was reduced to 18 seats. As a result of the January 2015 Greek national elections, the party became the third largest in Parliament, despite winning only 17 seats.\n\nThe party is hard Eurosceptic. It is also anti-globalist.\n\nIn 2015, Golden Dawn outlined their 'National Plan' for Greece's recovery from the financial crisis as follows:\n\nIn December 1980, Nikolaos Michaloliakos and a group of supporters launched \"Chrysi Avgi\" magazine. Michaloliakos had been active in far-right politics for many years, having been arrested several times for politically motivated offences, such as beatings and illegal possession of explosive materials, which led to his discharge from the military. While he was in prison, Michaloliakos met the leaders of the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 and laid the foundations of the Golden Dawn party. According to the newspaper \"Eleftherotypia\" the characteristics of the magazine and the organisation were clearly National Socialist. \"Chrysi Avgi\" magazine ceased publication in April 1984, when Michaloliakos joined the National Political Union and took over the leadership of its youth section. In January 1985, he broke away from the National Political Union and founded the Popular National Movement – Golden Dawn, which was officially recognised as a political party in 1993.\n\nGolden Dawn remained largely on the margins of far-right politics until the Macedonia naming dispute in 1991 and 1992. The Greek newspaper \"Eleftherotypia\" reported that on 10 October 1992, about 30 Golden Dawn members attacked students at the Athens University of Economics and Business during a massive demonstration against the use of the name \"Macedonia\" by the Republic of Macedonia. Around the same time, the first far-right street gangs appeared under the leadership of Giannis Giannopoulos, a former military officer who was involved with the South African Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB) during the 1980s. After the events of 1991 and 1992, Golden Dawn had gained a stable membership of more than 200 members, and Giannopoulos rose within the party hierarchy. Golden Dawn ran in the 1994 European Parliament election, gaining 7,264 votes nationwide; 0.1% of the votes cast.\n\nDuring the 1980s the party embraced Hellenic Neopagan beliefs, praised the Twelve Olympians and described Marxism and liberalism as \"the ideological carriers of Judeo-Christianity\". The party went through ideological changes later and welcomed Greek Orthodox Christianity.\n\nA number of Golden Dawn members participated during the Bosnian War in the Greek Volunteer Guard (GVG), which was part of the Drina Corps of the Army of Republika Srpska. A few GVG volunteers were present in Srebrenica during the Srebrenica massacre, and they raised a Greek flag at a ruined church after the fall of the town. Spiros Tzanopoulos, a GVG sergeant who took part in the attack against Srebrenica, said many of the Greek volunteers participated in the war because they were members of Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn members in the GVG were decorated by Radovan Karadžić, but, according to Charis Kousoumvris, a former member of Golden Dawn, those who were decorated, later left the party.\n\nIn April 1996, Giannopoulos represented the party at a pan-European convention of far-right nationalist parties in Moscow, where he presented a bust of Alexander the Great to Liberal Democratic Party of Russia leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky for his birthday. Golden Dawn participated in the 1996 legislative election in September, receiving 4,487 votes nationwide; 0.07% of the votes cast. In October 1997, Giannopoulos published an article in \"Chrysi Avgi\" magazine calling for nationalist vigilantism against immigrants and liberals. In 1998, a prominent party member, Antonios Androutsopoulos, assaulted Dimitris Kousouris, a left-wing student activist. The resulting media attention, along with internal party conflicts (due to poor results in the 1996 elections), led some of its most extreme members to gradually fade from official party affairs.\n\nAndroutsopoulos finally surrendered in 2005 and was convicted of the attempted murder of Kousouris and another two left-wing activists, for which he received a 21-year prison term. The rest of the members of the squad that hit Kousouris were never legally prosecuted. In March 2009, Androutsopoulos appealed his sentence and received 12 years, to be finally released from prison a few months later. Meanwhile, Golden Dawn continued to hold rallies and marches, and it ran in the 1999 European election in an alliance with the Front Line party, gaining 48,532 votes nationwide; 0.75% of the votes cast. In 2005, \"Eleftherotypia\" reported that Golden Dawn members distributed homophobic flyers during the first pride parade held in Athens.\n\nAccording to Golden Dawn's leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, the party suspended its own autonomous political activities after 1 December 2005 because of clashes with anarchists. Golden Dawn members were instructed to continue their activism within the Patriotic Alliance party, which was very closely linked to Golden Dawn. The former leader of Patriotic Alliance, Dimitrios Zaphiropoulos, was once a member of Golden Dawn's political council, and Michaloliakos became a leading member of Patriotic Alliance. There were accusations that the \"Patriotic Alliance\" was simply the new name of Golden Dawn. Activities by Patriotic Alliance's members were often attributed to Golden Dawn (even by themselves), creating confusion. This is the main reason Golden Dawn's members announced the withdrawal of their support of the Patriotic Alliance, which eventually led to the interruption of Golden Dawn's political activities. In March 2007, Golden Dawn held its sixth congress and announced the resumption of their political and ideological activism.\n\nIn May 2012, WordPress shut down Golden Dawn's official website and blog due to death threats against Xenia Kounalaki, a journalist.\n\nIn 2018, the party attempted to distance itself from fascism and present itself as right-wing sovereigntist, praising Italian Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán as inspirations.\n\nGolden Dawn claimed to have local organisations in 32 Greek cities, as well as in Cyprus.\n\nThe party created the \"Committee of National Memory\" (Επιτροπή Εθνικής Μνήμης, \"Epitropí Ethnikís Mnímis\"), to organise demonstrations commemorating the anniversaries of certain Greek national events. Since 1996, the Committee of National Memory has organized an annual march, usually on 31 January in Athens, in memory of three Greek officers who died during the Imia military crisis. According to the European National Front website, the march in 2006 was attended by 2,500 people, although no neutral sources have confirmed that number. The Committee of National Memory has continued its activities, and a march took place on 31 January 2010.\n\nThe Committee of National Memory has organized annual rallies on 17 June in Thessalonica, in memory of Alexander the Great. Police confronted the participants of the rally of 2006, forcing Golden Dawn and Patriotic Alliance members to leave the area after conflicts with leftist groups. Later that day, Golden Dawn members gathered in the building of state-owned television channel ERT3 and held a protest as they tried to stop the channel from broadcasting. Police surrounded the building and arrested 48 Golden Dawn members.\n\nIn September 2005, Golden Dawn attempted to organise a festival called \"Eurofest 2005 – Nationalist Summer Camp\" at the grounds of a Greek summer camp. The planned festival depended on the participation of the German National Democratic Party of Germany, the Italian Forza Nuova and the Romanian Noua Dreaptă, as well as Spanish and other European far-right groups, as European National Front's festival. The festival was banned by the government.\n\nIn June 2007, Golden Dawn sent representatives to protest against the G8 convention in Germany, together with the National Democratic Party of Germany and other European far-right organisations.\n\nIn June 2011, \"Foreign Policy\" reported that in the midst of the 2010–2011 Greek protests, gangs of Golden Dawn members were increasingly being seen in some of the higher-crime areas of Athens. In May 2012, the BBC reported on how Golden Dawn had become sort of a local 'Robin Hood' in some high-immigration areas of Athens, since the party was developing a social program which included the delivery of free or minimal cost food among the most unfavored strata of ethnic Greeks. The party offers protection for victims of crime, a service that has been appreciated by citizens and utilized by the police, which refers Athenians to the Golden Dawn for help, especially when immigrant crime is involved. The party, however, demands allegiance in return for their service.\n\nGolden Dawn's Youth Front has distributed fliers with nationalist messages in Athens schools and organised the concert series Rock Against Communism. It publishes the ultranationalist magazine \"Resistance Hellas-Antepithesi\". The magazine is a sister publication of the United States-based National Alliance's \"Resistance\" magazine.\n\nIn May 2009, Golden Dawn took part in the European elections and received 23,564 votes, 0.5% of the total votes.\nIn 2010 it won 5.3% of the vote in Athens. In that election, the party won its first municipal council seat and entered parliament for the first time in 2012. In the Greek parliamentary elections of May 2012, the party received 6.97% of the popular vote. In the rerun of the elections in June 2012, their share of the vote was 6.92%. This made them the third largest group from Greece to the European Parliament (largest was Syriza's alliance.)\n\nMembers of Golden Dawn have been accused of carrying out acts of violence and hate crimes against immigrants, political opponents, homosexuals and ethnic minorities. Golden Dawn's offices have been attacked repeatedly by anarchists and other leftists and clashes between members of Golden Dawn and leftists have not been unusual.\n\nIn 2000, unknown suspects vandalized the Monastirioton synagogue, a memorial for Holocaust victims, and Jewish cemeteries in Thessaloniki and Athens. There were claims that Golden Dawn's symbols were present at all four sites. The \"KIS\", the Central Board of Jewish Communities in Greece, the Coalition of the Left, of Movements and Ecology, the Greek Helsinki Monitor and others issued statements condemning these acts. The Cyprus chapter of Golden Dawn has been accused of attacks against Turkish Cypriots, and one member was arrested for attacking Turkish Cypriots in 2005.\n\nOn 6 October 1999, during a football match between Greece and Albania in Athens, Albanian supporters burnt a Greek flag in their stand. This act was captured and broadcast extensively by the Greek media, leading to a series of angry reactions by Greek nationalists against foreign immigrants. In a specific case, on the night of 22 October, Pantelis Kazakos, a nationalist and a member of the Golden Dawn, said he felt \"insulted by the burning of the Greek flag\" and shot and killed two people and wounded seven others in an attack in central Athens. All of the victims were immigrants, and four of the wounded remain paralysed. Other Golden Dawn members, feeling also \"insulted by the burning of the Greek flag\", formed the hooligan firm \"Galazia Stratia\" (Greek for \"Blue Army\"). It has described itself as a \"fan club of the Greek national teams\" and its goal as \"to defend Greek national pride inside the stadiums.\" It has been reported that following Golden Dawn's official disbandment in 2005, many former party members have put most of their energy into promoting \"Galazia Stratia\". \"Galazia Stratia\" is closely linked to Golden Dawn, and the two groups shared the same street address. Golden Dawn made no attempt to deny the connections, openly praising the actions of \"Galazia Stratia\" in its newspaper, and accepting praise in return from the firm.\n\n\"Galazia Stratia\" and Golden Dawn have been accused of various acts of sports-related violence. In September 2004, after a football match between Greece and Albania in Tirana (which Greece lost 2–1), Albanian immigrants living in Greece went out on the streets of Athens and other cities to celebrate the victory. Greek hooligans felt provoked by this and violence erupted against Albanian immigrants in various parts of Greece, resulting in the murder of an Albanian in Zakynthos and many others being injured. Golden Dawn and \"Galazia Stratia\" were proven to be directly responsible for many of the attacks. According to \"Eleftherotypia\", \"Galazia Stratia\" members severely assaulted a Palestinian and a Bangladeshi during celebrations following the success of the Greek national basketball team at the 2006 FIBA World Championship.\n\nAntonios Androutsopoulos (aka \"Periandros\"), a prominent member of Golden Dawn, was a fugitive from 1998 to 14 September 2005 after being accused of the attempted murder on 16 June 1998 of three left-wing students – including Dimitris Kousouris, who was badly injured. Androutsopoulos had been sentenced \"in absentia\" to four years of prison for illegal weapon possession while the attempted murder charges against him were still standing.\n\nThe authorities' failure to apprehend Androutsopoulos for seven years prompted criticism by the Greek media. An article in \"Ta Nea\" claimed that Periandros remained in Greece and evaded arrest because of his connections with the police. In an interview in 2004, Michalis Chrisochoidis, the former minister of public order and a member of PASOK, claimed that such accusations were unfounded, and he blamed the inefficiency of the Greek police. Some allege that Androutsopoulos had evaded arrest because he had been residing in Venezuela until 2005 when he turned himself in. His trial began on 20 September 2006, and he was convicted on 25 September 2006; he was sentenced to 21 years in prison. Golden Dawn members were present at his trial, shouting nationalist slogans; he reportedly hailed them using the Nazi salute.\n\nOn 2 February 2008, Golden Dawn planned to hold the annual march for the twelfth anniversary of the Imia military crisis. Anti-fascist groups organised a protest in order to cancel the march, as a response to racist attacks allegedly caused by Golden Dawn members. Golden Dawn members occupied the square in which the march was to take place, and when anti-fascists showed up, clashes occurred. During the riots that followed, Golden Dawn members were seen attacking the anti-fascists with riot police doing nothing to stop them and actually letting them pass through their lines. This led to two people being stabbed and another two wounded by rocks. There were allegations that Golden Dawn members even carried police equipment with them and that Golden Dawn's equipment was carried inside a police van.\n\nOn 7 September 1993 a bomb exploded at Golden Dawn's offices. The attack was attributed to the far-left terrorist organization Revolutionary People's Struggle (ELA).\n\nIn November 2005, Golden Dawn's offices were attacked by a group of Anarchists with molotov cocktails and stones. There were gunshots, and two people (who claimed that they were just passing by) were injured. According to Golden Dawn, three suspects were arrested and set free. During the subsequent police investigation, leftovers from molotov cocktails were discovered in Golden Dawn's offices. Golden Dawn has stated that this was the reason for the organisation's disbandment.\n\nOn 19 March 2010, a bomb described by police as of \"moderate power\" was detonated in the fifth floor office of Golden Dawn, in downtown Athens. Twenty-five minutes prior to the blast, an unidentified caller contacted a local newspaper in order to announce the attack. The targeted building and the surrounding area were evacuated in response. The explosion caused substantial property damage but no casualties. The office reopened on 10 April 2010. The responsibility for the attack claimed by the anarchist terrorist organization Conspiracy of Fire Nuclei.\n\nOn 4 December 2012, a makeshift bomb containing dynamite exploded at Golden Dawn's office building in Aspropyrgos, a suburb of Athens. The explosion caused significant damage to two floors but produced no casualties.\n\nOn 13 February 2013 an improvised bomb exploded in the regional office of Golden Dawn in Piraeus. The explosion and the subsequent fire caused material damage. Next morning a similar improvised bomb exploded outside the offices of Golden Dawn in the city of Larissa, central Greece. The explosion caused only material damage.\n\nOn 7 June 2012, Golden Dawn spokesman Ilias Kasidiaris slapped Communist MP Liana Kanelli about the head three times during a live debate on the morning show \"Proino ANT1\"; she had thrown a newspaper and verbal abuse at him during the previous commercial break. Kasidiaris was subsequently locked in a room by the staff of the ANT1 TV station, but he knocked down the door and left. Greek prosecutors issued an arrest warrant. Golden Dawn blamed Kanelli for the incident. The incident resulted in several protests against Golden Dawn in Athens and other Greek cities. Political analyst Theodore Couloumbis told Reuters that the incident could cost Golden Dawn votes, especially among women, though other experts were of the opinion that images of violence could play in their favour—a Facebook page dedicated to Kasidiaris picked up 6,000 'likes' within 24 hours.\n\nIn September 2013, a 35-year-old man alleged to have had ties to Golden Dawn was arrested for murder after Pavlos Fyssas, known as hip-hop artist Killah P, was stabbed twice following a brawl in Piraeus. The police later raided Golden Dawn offices in Athens. The party denies any alleged connections to the murder. An ongoing investigation has since confirmed that the man was in contact with party members prior to and at the time of the murder. A subsequent police crackdown led to raids on Golden Dawn offices and the arrests of several party members, including party leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos, who was imprisoned as a result of owning the office phone to which a telephone call, alleged to be associated with the murder, was received.\n\nOn 1 November 2013, Golden Dawn members Giorgos Fountoulis and Manos Kapelonis were shot dead outside the party's offices in Neo Irakleio, a northern suburb of Athens. A third, Alexandros Gerontas, was severely injured. Police described the event as a terrorist attack. Golden Dawn claimed that police protection of the building had been withdrawn shortly before the attack. Two weeks later, the anarchist terrorist group \"The Fighting People's Revolutionary Powers\" claimed responsibility for what it described as the \"political executions of the fascist members of the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn party\".\n\nDuring April, supporters were present in Piraeus, where they came into conflict with supporters of refugees, and additionally in Chios, where they fought with police from Athens, after having attacked migrants and refugees there.\n\nIn an interview with \"Eleftherotypia\" in 1998, Minister for Public Order Georgios Romaios (PASOK) alleged the existence of \"fascist elements in the Hellenic Police\", and vowed to suppress them. In a TV interview that same year, Romaios again claimed that there was a pro-fascist group within the police force, although he said it was not organized and was only involved in isolated incidents. The same year, \"Eleftherotypia\" published an article which outlined connections between the police and neo-fascism. Dimitris Reppas, the PASOK government spokesman, strongly denied such connections. However, the article quoted a speech by the PASOK Member of Parliament Paraskevas Paraskevopoulos about a riot caused by right-wing extremists, in which he said:\n\nIn Thessaloniki it is widely discussed that far-right organisations are active in the security forces. Members of such organisations were the planners and chief executioners of the riot and nobody was arrested. A Special Forces officer, speaking at a briefing of Special Forces policemen who were to be on duty that day, told the policemen not to arrest anyone because the rioters were not enemies and threatened that should this be overlooked there would be penalties.\n\nBefore the surrender of Androutsopoulos, an article in the newspaper \"Ta Nea\" claimed that Golden Dawn had a close relationship with elements of the Greek police force. In relation to the Periandros case, the article quoted an unidentified police officer who said that \"half the force wanted Periandros arrested and the other half didn't\". The article claimed that there was a confidential internal police investigation which concluded that:\n\nThe newspaper published a photograph of a typewritten paragraph with no identifiable insignia as evidence of the secret investigation. The Minister for Public Order, Michalis Chrysochoidis, responded that he did not recollect such an investigation. Chrysochoidis also denied accusations that far-right connections within the police force delayed the arrest of Periandros. He said that leftist groups, including the ultra-left anti-state resistance group 17 November, responsible for several murders, had similarly evaded the police for decades. In both cases, he attributed the failures to \"stupidity and incompetence\" by the force.\n\nIn more recent years, anti-fascist and left-wing groups have claimed that many of Golden Dawn's members have close relationships or collaborated with Greece's Central Intelligence Service, the predecessor to the National Intelligence Service, and accused Michaloliakos of working for the KYP from the 1980s. One piece of evidence for this, published in a Greek newspaper, was a payslip showing the names of both Michaloliakos and Konstantinos Plevris as operating for the agency, which Golden Dawn claimed was a forgery. The \"payslip\", which was supposedly \"signed\" by a \"Hellenic army's officer\", was a fake, as was proven in court after Golden Dawn's complaint.\n\nIn July 2012, it was reported that Nils Muižnieks, Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, had placed the alleged ties of Greek police and Golden Dawn under scrutiny, following reports of the Greek state's continued failure to acknowledge the problem. In an interview he gave on 2 February 2013 to \"Ta Nea\", Muižnieks stated that he had collected strong evidence of ties between the police and the party. According to the political analyst Paschos Mandravelis, \"A lot of the party's backing comes from the police, young recruits who are apolitical and know nothing about the Nazis or Hitler. For them, Golden Dawn supporters are their only allies on the frontline when there are clashes between riot police and leftists.\"\n\nAfter the Greek Parliamentary elections of 6 May 2012, it became known that more than one out of two Greek police officers voted for Golden Dawn in some districts. Polling stations surrounding the Attica General Police Directorate in the Athens A constituency, where on-duty police officers are known to have voted, reported slightly more than 20% support for the party, whereas \"civilian\" polling stations in the constituency reported support of around 6%. The total percentage of Golden Dawn votes in Athens A was 7.8%. A police official stated that support for the party was high and growing among the police, as well as in the branches of the military.\n\n\nThe party is regularly described as neo-Nazi by news media and academic sources, and members are frequently responsible for anti-semitic graffiti.\n\nThe party denies that it has any official connection to Neo-Nazism. Although it uses the Nazi salute, a salute used by the Italian Fascist and German Nazi movements, it claims to draw its inspiration in this primarily from the 4th of August Regime established by Ioannis Metaxas, the Greek nationalist leader and dictator, whose National Youth Organization (and later, his entire government) adopted upon taking power. Ioannis Metaxas was the dictator of Greece from 1936 to 1941, when he died.\n\nLikewise, the Golden Dawn's meander symbol, while a symbol drawn from Greek art (which the party sees as representing bravery and eternal struggle) uses the same colors as Hitler's NSDAP flag: a red background, a black meander (respectively swastika) and a white border around the meander.\n\nIlias Kasidiaris, a spokesman for Golden Dawn, wrote an article that was published in Golden Dawn magazine on 20 April 2011, in which he said, \"What would the future of Europe and the whole modern world be like if World War II hadn't stopped the renewing route of National Socialism? Certainly, fundamental values which mainly derive from ancient Greek culture, would be dominant in every state and would define the fate of peoples. Romanticism as a spiritual movement and classicism would prevail against the decadent subculture that corroded the white man. Extreme materialism would have been discarded, giving its place to spiritual exaltation\". In the same article, Adolf Hitler is characterized as a \"great social reformer\" and \"military genius\".\n\nIn an article published in 1987 in the Golden Dawn magazine titled \"Hitler for 1,000 years\", its editor Michaloliakos showed his support for Nazism and white supremacy. Specifically he wrote, \"We are the faithful soldiers of the National Socialist idea and nothing else\" and \"[...] WE EXIST, and continue the battle, the battle for the final victory of our race\". He ends the article by writing \"1987, 42 years later, with our thought and soul given to the last great battle, with our thought and soul given to the black and red banners, with our thought and soul given to the memory of our great Leader, we raise our right hand up, we salute the Sun and with the courage, that is compelled by our military honor and our National Socialist duty we shout full of passion, faith to the future and our visions: HEIL HITLER!\". Furthermore, he uses capital letters for pronouns referring to Hitler (\"by Himself\", \"His people\").\n\nOn 17 August 1987 Rudolf Hess, Adolf Hitler's deputy in the Nazi Party, committed suicide in Spandau Prison. The following day on 18 August 1987 Golden Dawn members distributed proclamations in the center of Athens with the phrase \"Rudolf Hess Immortal\" ().\n\nIn pictures taken during the first congress of Golden Dawn in February 1990, the congress hall is decorated with the Swastika and the Wolfsangel.\n\nThere are many cases in which Golden Dawn members have appeared to give a Nazi salute. The founder of the party, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, appeared to give a Nazi salute in the Athens city council. He claims that it was merely \"the salute of the national youth organisation of Ioannis Metaxas\".\n\nIn May 2012, Golden Dawn ran in Greek elections under the slogan \"So we can rid this land of filth\". On his post-election statement, the leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, had placed a marble eagle on an obvious position on his desk, which according to media reports bears similarity to the eagle of the Nazi Third Reich. After the elections, Eleni Zaroulia, a Golden Dawn MP, wore an iron cross ring during her inauguration, a symbol which has been associated with Nazism. As depicted in a picture taken on 14 September 2012, Panagiotis Iliopoulos, another Golden Dawn MP, has a tattoo reading the Nazi greeting \"Sieg Heil\".\n\nOn 23 July 2012, Artemis Matthaiopoulos, a member of Golden Dawn, was elected as MP for the town of Serres. The website left.gr (associated with Syriza), reported that Matthaiopoulos was the frontman of the Nazi punk band \"Pogrom\" and pointed to the band's song \"Auschwitz\" with antisemitic lyrics such as \"fuck Anne Frank\" and \"Juden raus\" (\"Jews out\").\n\nIlias Kasidiaris quoted the book \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" in a speech to parliament on 23 October 2012. Defending himself in a discussion on whether to lift his parliamentary immunity over his assault of Kanelli, he quoted Protocol 19: \"In order to destroy the prestige of heroism we shall send them for trial in the category of theft, murder and every kind of abominable and filthy crime.\" Moreover, Kasidiaris bears a swastika tattoo on his left arm. Golden Dawn's leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, denied the existence of gas chambers and ovens at Nazi extermination camps. On 6 June 2013, the Golden Dawn MP Ilias Kasidiaris implied during a stormy debate in the Greek Parliament that he is a Holocaust denier.\n\nIn April 2014, Golden Dawn MP Ilias Panagiotaros described Hitler as a \"great personality, like Stalin\" and denounced homosexuality as a \"sickness\". Panagiotaros also described most immigrant Muslims to Greece as, \"Jihadists; fanatic Muslims\" and claimed that he supported the concept of a one-race nation, stating, \"if you are talking about nation, it is one race\".\n\nIn December 2015, the Golden Dawn was one of the main groups to reject a bill to allow civil partnerships for same-sex couples in Greece. Party leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos stated, \"church bells should toll mournfully across the country\".\n\nNikolaos Michaloliakos supports a revival of the \"Megali Idea\", the irredentist concept that guided Greece's foreign policy until the Greek defeat in the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–22:\n\nThese regions, which in the past were Greek lands, had significant Greek populations until the population exchange between Greece and Turkey in the 1920s. Michaloliakos has criticized Thessaloniki mayor Yiannis Boutaris for wanting to name a street after Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, who was born in the city.\n\nIn January 2013, a group of Golden Dawn supporters attacked the car of Turkish consul-general Osman İlhan Şener in Komotini during an anti-Turkey protest. The party members also insulted Atatürk during the attack.\n\nGolden Dawn promotes a hardline stance on the Macedonia naming dispute, rejecting any compromise solution that would include the term \"Macedonia\" in the name of the former Yugoslav republic, on the basis that only Greek Macedonia is entitled to use the name. Mihaloliakos has also called for the \"liberation\" of Northern Epirus, which is today part of southern Albania, has a Greek minority and is claimed by Greek irredentists. Golden Dawn and its Cypriot counterpart ELAM support \"enosis\", the union of Cyprus with Greece.\n\nElection advertisements for Golden Dawn have depicted the burning of US and Israeli flags, a reflection of the party's strong anti-American and anti-Zionist position. However, in June 2018, the party's MEPs voted in favour of increased security coordination with Israel. Golden Dawn is also staunchly eurosceptic, opposing Greece's participation in the European Union and the eurozone.\n\nGolden Dawn has spoken out in favor of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad following the Syrian Civil War.\n\nGolden Dawn aims to expand globally, with its spokesman saying in 2013 that the party planned to establish cells \"wherever there are Greeks.\" Since 2012, the party has opened branches in Germany, Canada (Montreal), and the United States (primarily Astoria, Queens and Tarpon Springs, Florida), and has also aimed to establish a presence in Melbourne, Australia. Leaders among the Greek diaspora and Greek Orthodox Church have denounced the group's ideology; they say only a tiny portion of Greeks abroad support the group. A branch in Trieste, Italy called \"Alba Dorata\" was formed in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6800544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6800544", "title": "High Assurance Guard", "text": "High Assurance Guard\n\nA High Assurance Guard (HAG) is a Multilevel security computer device which is used to communicate between different Security Domains, such as NIPRNet to SIPRNet. A HAG is one example of a Controlled Interface between security levels. HAGs are approved through the Common Criteria process.\n\nA HAG runs multiple virtual machines or physical machines - one or more subsystems for the lower classification, one (or more) subsystems for the higher classification. The hardware runs a type of Knowledge Management software that examines data coming out of the higher classification subsystem and rejects any data that is classified higher than the lower classification. In general, a HAG allows lower classified data that resides on a higher classified system to be moved to another lower classified system. For example, in the US, it would allow unclassified information residing on a Secret classified system to be moved to another Unclassified system. Through various rules and filters, the HAG ensures that data is of the lower classification and then allows the transfer.\n\nOn the application layer, the HAG runs an \"evaluated mandatory integrity policy\" that provides sensitive files, data and applications protection from inadvertent disclosure. At the operating system level, the HAG must have a multi-level kernel that ensures sensitive information, processes, and devices stored and running on the system at different sensitivity levels cannot intermingle in violation of the system's mandatory security model.\n\nThe systems are certified via the Common Criteria; depending on the classification, the system may require Common Criteria Evaluated Assurance Level (EAL) 3 or higher. For examples, in the US, an evaluation at the EAL 5 or EAL 5+ (EAL 5 Augmented) or higher is required to export from a Secret domain to an Unclassified domain.\n\nSome manufacturers may use \"Trusted Computer System\" or \"Trusted Applications with High Assurance\" as an equivalent term to HAG.\n\nThe HAG is mostly used in email and DMS environments as certain organizations may only have unclassified network access, and they need to send a message to an organization that has only secret network access. The HAG provides them this ability.\n\n"}
{"id": "6411325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6411325", "title": "Human rights in Jordan", "text": "Human rights in Jordan\n\nHuman rights in Jordan are among the best and most respected in the Middle East. Although recently there have been far-reaching reforms of the laws and regulations in the country, abuses against basic rights such as freedom of expression persisted.\n\nAccording to Freedom House, Jordan is ranked as the fourth-freest Arab country, and as \"partly free\" in the Freedom in the World 2017 report. In 2017, Jordan is considered an \"authoritarian regime\" according to Democracy Index.\n\nThe 2011 Jordanian protests began in the wake of unrest in Tunisia and Egypt. Starting in January 2011, several thousand Jordanians staged weekly demonstrations and marches in Amman (the capital) and other cities to protest government corruption, rising prices, poverty, and high unemployment. In response, King Abdullah II replaced his prime minister and formed a National Dialogue Commission with a mandate to carry out reforms. The king told the new prime minister to \"take quick, concrete, and practical steps to launch a genuine political reform process,\" \"to strengthen democracy,\" and to provide Jordanians with the \"dignified life they deserve.\" He called for an \"immediate revision\" of laws governing politics and public freedoms. Since then, reports have shown good initial results but much work remaining to be done.\n\nThe 2010 Arab Democracy Index from the Arab Reform Initiative ranked Jordan first in the state of democratic reforms out of fifteen Arab countries.\n\nJordan is a constitutional monarchy ruled by King Abdullah II bin Hussein. The constitution concentrates executive and legislative authority in the king.\n\nJordan has a bicameral legislature, the National Assembly, consisting of an upper house, the Assembly of Senators, appointed by the king and an elected lower house, the Chamber of Deputies. The members of both houses hold office for four-year terms. There are 60 seats in the Senate and 120 in the Chamber of Deputies. In the Chamber of Deputies 12 seats are reserved for women, 9 seats for Christian candidates, 9 for Bedouin candidates, and 3 for Jordanians of Chechen or Circassian descent. The Assembly of Senators is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and can be dismissed by \"a vote of no confidence\". The king may dissolve the National Assembly, forcing new elections. King Abdullah did that on 24 November 2009, and the government ruled by decree through most of 2010, until new elections were held in November. Parliamentary elections have been deemed credible by international observers. The king signs and executes all laws, but his veto power can be overridden by two-thirds vote of the National Assembly. The judicial branch is completely independent. Security forces report to civilian authorities.\n\nThe law does not provide citizens the right to change their monarch or government. The king appoints and dismisses the prime minister, cabinet, the Assembly of Senators, and judges, may dissolve parliament, commands the military, and directs major public policy initiatives. The cabinet, based on the prime minister's recommendation, appoints the mayors of Amman, Wadi Musa (Petra), and Aqaba, a special economic zone. The mayors of the other 93 municipalities are elected.\n\nOpposition movements are legal in Jordan and are involved in Jordan's political life. The government licenses political parties and other associations and prohibits membership in unlicensed political parties. There are over 50 licensed political parties, but only a few have a substantial impact at the national level.\n\nJordan ranked sixth among the 19 countries in the Middle East and North Africa region, and 50th out of 178 countries worldwide in the 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) issued by Transparency International, where 1st is the least corrupt. Jordan's 2010 CPI score was 4.7 on a scale from 0 (highly corrupt) to 10 (very clean). Jordan ratified the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) in February 2005 and has been a regional leader in spearheading efforts to promote the UNCAC and its implementation.\n\nThe Jordanian constitution provides for freedom of speech and of the press; however, the government does not fully respect these rights in practice. In its 2009 annual report the Amman-based National Center for Defending the Freedom of Journalists (CDFJ) concluded that media freedoms deteriorated in 2009. \nIn the 2010 Press Freedom Index maintained by Reporters Without Borders, Jordan ranked 120th out of 178 countries listed, 5th out of the 20 countries in the Middle East and North Africa region. Jordan's score was 37 on a scale from 0 (most free) to 105 (least free).\n\nThe law provides for up to three years' imprisonment for insulting the king, slandering the government or foreign leaders, offending religious beliefs, or stirring sectarian strife and sedition. In practice citizens are generally able to criticize the government, although they reportedly exercise caution in regard to the king, the royal family, the General Intelligence Directorate (GID), and other sensitive topics such as religion.\n\nThe government continues to enforce bans on the publication of selected books for religious, moral, and political reasons, some foreign films are edited prior to release, and the media is directly and indirectly censored. Authorities monitor and censor printing presses and edit articles deemed offensive before they can be printed. Journalists claim the government uses informants in newsrooms and that GID officials monitor reporting. Editors reportedly receive telephone calls from security officials instructing them how to cover events or to refrain from covering certain topics or events. Government officials also reportedly bribe journalists to influence their reporting. Media observers note that when covering controversial subjects, government-owned Jordan Radio and Television and Jordan News Agency reported only the government's position.\n\nJournalists report that the threat of detention and imprisonment under the penal code for a variety of offenses, and stringent fines of as much as 20,000 dinars ($28,000) under the press and publications law for defamation leads to self-censorship. According to a 2009 Center for Defending the Freedom of Journalists survey, 95 percent of journalists polled exercised self-censorship. The survey also reported that 70 percent of journalists thought the government used \"soft containment\", such as financial support, scholarships for relatives, and special invitations, to control the media at a medium to high degree. Ninety-four percent said they avoid writing about or broadcasting military matters, and 83 percent said they avoid discussing religious topics.\n\nThere were several cases in which the government prohibited journalists from reporting on high-profile court cases. For example, a State Security Court attorney general prohibited the press from reporting or commenting on the case of the Jordan Petroleum Refinery Company expansion project without his personal approval, purportedly to allow the judicial authorities to work \"calmly\" on the case.\n\nThe clash between Jordanian media and the Lower House has been a chronic struggle for decades. The state of press freedom in Jordan is very fickle, at one point Jordan had one of the most vocal media in the Arab World, but a series of laws passed by Parliament greatly restricted press freedom. The Jordanian media has been very vocal expressing its opposition towards Parliament often leading to clashes. One Jordanian journalist wrote a fiery article called \"For God Sake, Abdullah\", in which he called on King Abdullah to dissolve the corrupt Lower House. He was prosecuted by the Lower House, but was later acquitted by the judiciary.\n\nIn October 2001, the government amended the Penal Code and introduced a restrictive Press Law that effectively revokes the relative freedom of the press guaranteed by the 1993 Press Law and punishes any act that can be deemed critical of the Jordanian government. Anyone who \"slanders\" the King or other members of the royal family can be sentenced to three years imprisonment. The introduction of these new laws has led to the detention and imprisonment of several journalists and leaders of peaceful associations.\n\nIn May 2006, two journalists involved in reprinting three of the 12 Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were issued a two-month prison sentence. Jordan was the only Muslim country to reprint the Danish cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammed in one of its newspapers. The two Jordanian editors responsible were sacked and pressured to issue a public apology.\n\nIn the beginning of 2009, King Abdullah II issued a royal decree forbidding jailing of journalists in Jordan, an act praised by human rights groups in Jordan and around the world.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, Jordanian authorities has used counterterrorism laws to prosecute activists, dissidents, journalists and Islamic preachers for speech offenses, the authorities depends largely on counterterrorism law that extended the definition of terrorism to include acts such as disturbing Jordan's relations with a foreign state. In February, a senior Muslim Brotherhood figure, Zaki Bani Irsheid, was sentenced to 18 months in prison after a post on Facebook criticizing the United Arab Emirates. In June, Eyad Qunaibi, an Islamic preacher, was arrested after posting Facebook comments criticizing the liberal lifestyle of a segment of the Jordanian society.\n\nJordan is listed as engaged in selective internet filtering in the political area and as showing no evidence of filtering in the social, conflict/security, and Internet tools areas by the OpenNet Initiative (ONI) in August 2009. Internet censorship in Jordan is relatively light, with filtering selectively applied to only a small number of sites. However, media laws and regulations encourage some measure of self-censorship in cyberspace, and citizens have reportedly been questioned and arrested for Web content they have authored. Internet censorship in Jordan is mainly focused on political issues that might be seen as a threat to national security due to the nation's close proximity to regional hotspots of Israel, Iraq, Lebanon, and the Palestinian territories.\n\nIn 2013, however, the Press and Publications Department initiated a ban on Jordanian news websites which had not registered and been licensed by government agency. The order issued to Telecommunication Regulatory Commission contained a list of over 300 websites to be blocked. The mandatory registration of websites was a part of amendments made to the Press and Publications Law in September 2012. The amendments included articles that would hold online news sites accountable for the comments left by their readers, prohibiting them from publishing comments that are deemed \"irrelevant\" or \"unrelated\" to the article. The restriction caused several prominent sites to turn off their comments sections. Online news sites are required to archive all comments for at least six months.\n\nAccording to US Department of State's Human Rights Reports in 2015 legal and societal discrimination and harassment remained a problem for religious minorities, and religious converts.\n\nThe Jordanian Constitution provides for the freedom to practice one's religion in accordance with the customs in the Kingdom, unless they violate public order or morality. Jordan's state religion is Islam. The Government bans conversion from Islam and efforts to proselytize Muslims. While proselytizing to Christians may not be banned, it is equally not favored and very hampered with bureaucratic red tape that renders it near impossible to legalize.\n\nThe US State Department's International Religious Freedom Report of 2009 indicated that there were \"no reports that the practice of any faith was prohibited\" in Jordan. In fact, Jordan has been highlighted as a model of interfaith dialogue. The study also concluded that in the last year there were \"no reports of misuse or neglect\" of the Kingdom's diverse religious sites, as well as no reports of \"harassment, discrimination, or restrictions\" to worshippers.\n\nChristians are well integrated into the Kingdom's political and economic landscapes. At least one Christian holds a ministerial post in every government, nine seats in the 120-seat Parliament are reserved for Christians, and a similar number is appointed to the Upper House by the King. In addition, Christians have traditionally prospered in the kingdom to the extent that Jordanian Christians are believed to own or run about a third of the Jordanian economy despite making up only 6% of the total population. They serve in the military, many have high positions in the army, and they have established good relations with the royal family. The Pope has been to Jordan, where he was welcomed by the royal family.\n\nJordan is a destination for women and men subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced labor and, to a lesser extent, forced prostitution. Jordan is possibly a source and transit country for women and men subjected to conditions of forced labor and forced commercial sexual exploitation. There are also reports of Jordanian child laborers experiencing conditions of forced labor.\n\nMoroccan and Tunisian women are reportedly subjected to forced prostitution after migrating to Jordan to work in restaurants and night clubs. In addition, a few Chinese, Bangladeshi, Indian, Sri Lankan, and Vietnamese men and women encountered conditions indicative of forced labor in a few factories in the garment sector, including factories in Jordan's Qualifying Industrial Zones, such as the unlawful withholding of passports, delayed payment of wages, and, in a few cases, verbal and physical abuse. Instances of forced labor reportedly continued to decline due to enhanced labor inspections and other recent measures undertaken by the government within the garment sector. NGOs and the media also report the forced labor of Egyptian workers in the construction, agriculture, and tourism sectors. Jordan's airports may be transit points for South- and Southeast-Asian men and women en route to employment opportunities in other Middle Eastern countries, where they experience labor exploitation after arrival. Some Jordanian children employed within the country as street vendors, carpenters, painters, mechanics, domestics, restaurant staff, or agricultural laborers may be exploited in situations of forced labor.\n\nIn 2009, an Anti-Human Trafficking Law was endorsed by the government that severely restricts human trafficking in the Kingdom and creates a committee to promote public awareness on the issue. Jordan in cooperation with the Filipino Government worked out an agreement which gave a wide range of rights to domestic workers and access to legal protection, the first Arab country to do so.\n\nNew regulations to regulate the working conditions of all domestic workers prescribe maximum working hours, rights to holiday and sick leave, and domestic workers' entitlement to regular contact with their own families. According to Amnesty International, despite addressing important issues, the regulations are loosely worded and open to interpretation in certain respects, fail to specify mechanisms for determining wages, or to resolve long-standing problems related to nonpayment of wages or low wages. They also fail to provide effective safeguards against physical violence and sexual abuse by employers of domestic workers, the great majority of whom are women, and appear to place women at risk by requiring domestic workers to obtain their employer's permission before leaving their house.\n\nWhile there has been some improvement in combating human trafficking, Jordan remains a Tier 2 country (countries whose governments do not fully comply with the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act's minimum standards, but are making significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with those standards) in the U.S. State Department's \"Trafficking in Persons Report 2010\" because victim assistance, public awareness raising, punishment of traffickers, and active cooperation with source country embassies remain limited.\n\nTorture is illegal in Jordan, however it remains widespread. According to a report by Amnesty International, intelligence agents in Jordan frequently use torture to extract confessions from terror suspects. Common tactics include, \"beating, sleep deprivation, extended solitary confinement, and physical suspension.\" Palestinians and suspected Islamists are treated especially harshly. Though Jordan has improved many procedures including a prison reform campaign in partnership with EU in this respect, agents at the General Intelligence Department remain largely immune to punishment.\n\nIn May 2010, the UN Committee against Torture reiterated long-standing concerns at Jordan's failure to investigate and prosecute allegations of torture, to provide adequate protection against torture, and to prosecute perpetrators in accordance with the seriousness of the crime. It noted the \"numerous, consistent and credible allegations of a widespread and routine practice of torture and ill-treatment\" including in General Intelligence Department (GID) and Criminal Investigations Department detention. The government did not respond to the Committee's recommendations.\n\nAccording to Rana Husseini of \"The Jordan Times\", there were 12 recorded \"honor killings\" in Jordan from January to November 2010. These so-called \"honor killings\", the killing of female relatives suspected of illicit relationships, are often lightly punished by police and the courts. There have been several attempts to introduce harsh penalties on honor crimes, but, even with the strong backing of the royal family, these attempts have been rejected by Jordan's Lower House. In May 2010, the government decreed amendments to the penal code to ensure that \"honor\" crimes receive the full penalty of the law.\n\nAfter a moratorium since 2006 there were eleven executions on 21 December 2014, all detainees were men convicted of murder. Amendments to the penal code have reduced the number of capital offenses. State security, smuggling, arson resulting in death, and inciting armed riot cases are no longer capital crimes. In March 2010, the Justice Minister announced that the crime of rape may cease to be a capital offense. In the future it is possible that the death penalty will be limited to cases of murder.\n\nAt the end of 2010 the government reports that 46 people were under sentence of death and six new death sentences were imposed during the year. Amnesty International reports nine new death sentences in 2010.\n\nFifteen executions were carried on dawn of 4 March 2017; ten convicted with terrorism and the remaining 5 with murder and rape of minors. Those convicted with terrorism were part of a terror attack in Irbid, an attack on intelligence officers and the attack on Jordanian writer Nahed Hattar.\n\nJordanian law prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, but according to local and international human rights groups, the government does not always observe these prohibitions in practice.\n\nCitizens and NGOs allege that the government continues to detain individuals, including political opposition members, for political reasons, and that governors continued to use administrative detentions for what appeared to be political reasons. In a few cases, the media and human rights organizations reported that authorities kept detainees in solitary confinement and denied them access to lawyers.\n\nHuman rights observers claimed that police make arrests before obtaining warrants and prosecutors fail to file charges or seek extensions in a timely manner. Prosecutors routinely request and are granted extensions that increase the period to file formal charges to as long as six months for a felony and two months for a misdemeanor. This practice can lengthen pretrial detention for protracted periods. Some detainees report not being allowed timely access to a lawyer, but authorities generally permit visits by family members.\n\nIn facilities operated by the General Intelligence Directorate (GID) there are allegations of long periods of incommunicado detention, lengthy pretrial detention without being informed of charges, and not allowing defendants to meet with their lawyers or permitting meetings only shortly before trial.\n\nUnder the Crime Prevention Law, provincial governors may detain individuals suspected of planning to commit a crime or those who allegedly shelter thieves, habitually steal, or constitute a danger to the public, and in practice they used this provision widely. Those accused are subject to imprisonment or house arrest as \"administrative detention\" without formal charges. A detention order may be for as long as one year, but governors can impose new orders to prolong detentions. International and national NGOs noted that governors routinely abused the law, imprisoning individuals when there was not enough evidence to convict them and prolonging detentions of prisoners whose sentences had expired. The law was also widely used to incarcerate women at risk of being honor crime victims.\n\nJordanian law provides for an independent judiciary; however, the judiciary's independence in practice may be compromised by nepotism and the influence of special interests.\n\nThe law presumes that all defendants are innocent until proven guilty. Juries are not used. Most trials in civilian courts are open and procedurally sound, but the State Security Court (SSC) may close its proceedings to the public. Defendants are entitled to legal counsel, provided at public expense for the indigent in cases involving the death penalty or potential life imprisonment. In many cases defendants have no legal representation. Defendants can present witnesses on their behalf and question witnesses against them. Defense attorneys were generally granted access to government-held evidence relevant to their clients' cases. Defendants can appeal verdicts and appeals are automatic for cases involving the death penalty.\n\nThere are significant problems with the conditions in prisons, including poor legal services, under staffing, inadequate food and health care, poor sanitation standards, poor ventilation, extreme temperatures, inadequate access to potable water, ineffective pre-release and post-release programs, and insufficient basic and emergency medical care. Some detainees report abuse and mistreatment by guards. Hunger strikes remain common, but prison riots and allegations of mistreatment have decreased. The construction of four new prisons reduced overcrowding somewhat.\n\nFreedom House rates women's rights in five categories, each scored from one (lowest level of freedom) to five (highest level):\n\nIn 2009 of 18 Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries surveyed, Jordan ranked in the upper third for each category (between 4th and 7th).\n\nLimited economic opportunity is one of the main reasons for poor scores in many of the above categories. It is not just discrimination that accounts for high rates of unemployment, but also genuine economic difficulties and shortages of jobs. \"The shrinking of the public sector disproportionately affects women, the location of jobs matters more for women than for men, and discrimination in the private sector remains\".\n\nIn 2005 Freedom House criticized Jordan for its poor women's rights record, but also acknowledged that the \"status of women in Jordan is currently undergoing a historic transition, with women achieving a number of positive gains and new rights.\"\n\nEducated women were granted suffrage in 1955, but it was not until 1974 that all women received the right to vote and run as candidates in parliamentary elections. In 1993, the first female candidate was elected to the lower house of parliament and the first woman was appointed to the upper house. Women have assumed high-level governmental positions in greater numbers, gaining appointments as ministers and lawmakers with increasing frequency. An average of three ministerial portfolios has been assigned to women in each cabinet since 2004, and a gender-based quota system, first introduced for the lower house of parliament in 2003, was expanded to municipal councils in 2007.\n\nFrom 2004 until the end of 2009, the women's movement made a number of important gains, including the publication of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) in the official gazette, which gave it the force of law. Additionally, the government has taken steps to address the problem of domestic abuse, including the February 2007 opening of the country's first major women's shelter, the Family Reconciliation House, and the March 2008 promulgation of the Family Protection Law, designed to regulate the handling of domestic abuse cases by medical workers and law enforcement bodies.\n\nToday, Jordanian women largely enjoy legal equality in freedom of movement, health care, education, political participation, and employment. And, while the attitudes of police officers, judges, and prosecutors regarding the treatment of victims of domestic violence and honor crimes have undergone a positive shift in recent years, gender-based violence remains a serious concern.\n\nThere remains gender-based discrimination in family laws, in the provision of pensions and social security benefits, and on the societal level due to deeply entrenched patriarchal norms that restrict female employment and property ownership. And women do not have the same status as men with respect to nationality. A Jordanian man may marry a foreigner and pass on his nationality to his children; women cannot. Nor can women pass on their nationality to their husbands.\n\nWomen are no longer required to seek permission from their male guardians or husbands before obtaining or renewing their passports, but fathers may still prevent their children from traveling regardless of the mother's wishes. Muslim women are prohibited from marrying men of other religions unless the spouse agrees to convert to Islam, while Muslim men are permitted to wed Christian and Jewish wives.\n\nIn 2013, the U.S. Department of Labor's \"Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor\" reported that Jordan has \"made a moderate advancement in efforts to eliminate the worst forms of child labor\" but that a percentage as low as 0.8% of children aged 5 to 14 continue to engage in child labor, mostly in the agricultural sector and in domestic service.\nIn December 2014, the Department issued a \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" where Jordan figures among 74 other countries that resort to such labor practices. Jordan was reported to make use of forced labor in the garment industry.\n\nLegal and societal discrimination and harassment remained a problem for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons in Jordan.\nJordan is one of the few countries in the Middle East where homosexuality is legal, provided that it occurs in private, does not involve prostitution, and only involves consenting adults. However, sexual orientation and gender identity issues remain taboo within the traditional culture and the government does not recognize same-sex civil unions or marriages.\nTransgender Jordanians may be allowed to change their legal Sex, however Sex Reassignment Surgery is required.\n\nJordan was one of the first countries in the Middle east to establish a national human rights institution (NHRI). The National Centre for Human Rights (NCHR) in 2006 secured 'A-status' accreditation from the peer review process of the International Coordinating Committee of NHRIs, giving it enhanced access to the United Nations human rights bodies. That status was subjected to special review twice by the ICC in 2007, and reaffirmed; it was again accorded A status under the ordinary review procedure in 2010. In the ICC annual meeting in March 2012, the Jordanian institution was elected as chair of the network of 99 institutions. The Commissioner General of the NCHR is Dr Mousa Burayzat.\n\nJordan is a party to many human rights agreements, including:\n\n\nJordan was the only country in the Middle East and North Africa that is a member of the International Criminal Court (ICC), which prosecutes those who commit crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression, and genocide, until Tunisia became a member in 2011. Palestine became a member of ICCC in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17157399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17157399", "title": "Ijaw Youth Council", "text": "Ijaw Youth Council\n\nIjaw Youth Council (also indefinite as \"Ijaw youths\") is a civil rights organization in Nigeria, founded in 1998, which supports the interests of the Ijaw ethnic group of the Niger Delta. From 2001 to 2004, it was headed by Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, until Asari split from the movement to found the Niger Delta People's Volunteer Force.\n\nDr. Chris Ekiyor is a President Emeritus of the organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830000", "title": "Inundation", "text": "Inundation\n\nInundation (from the Latin \"inundatio\", flood) is both the act of intentionally flooding land that would otherwise remain dry, for military, agricultural, or river-management purposes, and the result of such an act.\n\nThe noun \"inundation\" refers to both the \"act\" of inundating; an overflow; a flood; a rising and spreading of water over grounds; and to the \"state\" of being inundated; flooding. It should therefore be distinguished from other types of flooding, not caused by man. It should also be recognised that this type of flooding would not take place without the intentional human act. So e.g. tidal flooding of areas that fall dry at ebb tide, and periodical river floods are not inundations in the sense intended here.\n\nThe latter condition implies that in most topographies the act usually applies to causing an overflow of a river or stream by damming it. This is also the only method foreseen in the 1888 British military textbook that discusses the technique correctly under \"military obstacles\". However, in areas that have been reclaimed from the sea, marches or lakes, and are artificially protected from the waters (either accumulated precipitation, or the water source that would flood the reclaimed area, if it were not artificially protected), as in e.g. the artificial hydrological entities, known as Polders, may be inundated by simply giving the water source access again. In the latter perspective inundation may simply be a form of hydraulic engineering.\nBefore we limit the concept to military uses, it should be recognised that there are at least two other possible uses of inundation as a human act:\n\nMilitary inundation creates an obstacle in the field that is intended to impede the movement of the enemy. This may be done both for offensive and defensive purposes. Furthermore, in so far as the methods used are a form of hydraulic engineering, it may be useful to differentiate between \"controlled\" inundations (as in most historic inundations in the Netherlands under the Dutch Republic and its successor states in that area and exemplified in the two Hollandic Water Lines, the Stelling van Amsterdam, the Frisian Water Line, the IJssel Line, the Peel-Raam Line, and the Grebbe line in that country) and \"uncontrolled\" ones (as in the second Siege of Leiden during the first part of the Eighty Years' War, and the Inundation of Walcheren, and the Inundation of the Wieringermeer during the Second World War). To count as \"controlled\" a military inundation has to take the interests of the civilian population into account, by allowing them a timely evacuation, by making the inundation \"reversible\", and by making an attempt to minimize the adverse ecological impact of the inundation. As Vandenbohed discusses, that impact may also be adverse in a hydrogeological sense if the inundation lasts a long time.\n\nFrom a legal point of view a military inundation should therefore be seen as a government \"taking\" of private property under the constitutional protection of private property in many countries. In the Netherlands this was the subject of art. 152 of the Dutch constitution of 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "51889715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51889715", "title": "John Arthur Stokes", "text": "John Arthur Stokes\n\nJohn Arthur Stokes was a prominent figure in the civil rights movement. He grew up in the Jim Crow South and attended Robert Russa Moton High School, a segregated school for African Americans. Recognizing the inequalities he and his classmates faced, Stokes staged a walk out and refused to return to class until the school was rebuilt. He attended Virginia State University and became an educator in Baltimore, MD.\n"}
{"id": "215687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215687", "title": "Libertarian perspectives on immigration", "text": "Libertarian perspectives on immigration\n\nThe libertarian perspective on immigration is often regarded as one of the core concepts of libertarian theory and philosophy. Some libertarians assert that \"[e]fforts by the government to manage the labor market are as apt to fail as similar efforts to protect domestic industries or orchestrate industrial policy. [...] If an immigrant seeks to engage in peaceful, voluntary transactions that do not threaten the freedom or security of the native-born, the government should not interfere\".\n\nSamuel Edward Konkin III has promoted illegal immigration as being a key part of the counter-economy.\n\nLibertarian author Jacob Hornberger, a proponent of freer immigration policies, argues that open borders is the only libertarian immigration position.\n\nJeffrey Tucker, Director of Content at the Foundation for Economic Education, has been critical of the closed-border arguments made by conservative-leaning libertarians: This is a huge debate among people who otherwise swear fealty to \"limited government.\" Many people who claim to want freedom seem to have no problem with the implications of a closed-border policy: national IDs, national work permits, non-stop surveillance, harassment of all businesses, a \"papers please\" culture, mass deportation, tens of billions in waste, bureaucrats wrecking the American dream, broken families, [and] the rights of Americans and foreigners transgressed at every turn.\n\nA significant strain of right-libertarian thought, associated mainly with paleolibertarians and Hoppean anarcho-capitalists, denies freedom of movement as a fundamental right, maintaining instead that in their preferred formally stateless society in which all land is privatized fully and absolutely, where economic and political power resides principally with private landowners, a policy of open immigration necessarily amounts to legalized trespassing.\n"}
{"id": "16064121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16064121", "title": "New York Lawyers for the Public Interest", "text": "New York Lawyers for the Public Interest\n\nNew York Lawyers for the Public Interest, Inc. (\"New York Lawyers\" or \"NYLPI\" [nil-pee]) is a non-profit civil rights law firm located in New York City, specializing in the areas of disability rights, access to health care and environmental justice.\n\nNYLPI was founded in 1976 by eleven attorneys and nine law firms to meet the legal needs of underserved, underrepresented New Yorkers and their communities. This arrangement ultimately evolved into NYLPI's pro bono clearinghouse, which now matches volunteer lawyers from prestigious law firms and corporate legal departments with community groups and nonprofit organizations in need of legal services.\n\nNYLPI also has a number of in-house staff attorneys, social workers and community organizers working in the organization's three areas of specialization. NYLPI's Disability Justice Program \"protects and promotes the civil rights of people with disabilities,\" its Environmental Justice Program \"provides organizing and legal assistance to low-income neighborhoods and communities of color that bear an unfair burden of environmental threats,\" and its Health Justice Program \"works to ensure access to quality health care for people in medically underserved communities or facing barriers due to limited English proficiency, racial and ethnic discrimination, and disability.\"\n\nNYLPI was once associated with the National Campaign to Restore Civil Rights (NCRCR), \"a national collaboration of lawyers, academics, students, community activists, and concerned individuals who have joined together in response to recent federal court decisions that are eroding civil rights protections,\" but is no longer connected to it.\n\nNYLPI's mission is to advance equality and civil rights, with a focus on health justice, disability justice, and environmental justice, through the power of community lawyering and partnerships with the private bar.\n\nNew York Lawyers for the Public Interest originated in proposals submitted to the Association of the Bar of the City of New York in 1973 by its Young Lawyers Committee and the Council of New York Law Associates. Both addressed the need for legal services to organizations serving the public interest. A Subcommittee on Legal Services Programs, appointed by Orville Schell, Jr., President of the Association, and chaired by David Sive, was charged with making appropriate recommendations, and resulting issues were resolved under the Presidency of Cyrus R. Vance in 1975. Vance served as the organization's first Chairman and was succeeded by Schell in 1977, when Vance became Secretary of State.\n\nFounding board members:\n\nFounding law firms:\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "47090772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47090772", "title": "Office of the Auditor General (Myanmar)", "text": "Office of the Auditor General (Myanmar)\n\nThe Office of the Auditor General (; abbreviated OAG) is an independent government body that serves as the auditor of the Government of Burma. The Office of the Auditor General is currently held by U Maw Than. The previous Auditor General was U Myo Myint, and his predecessor was U Thein Htaik, appointed by President Thein Sein on 7 September 2012.\n\nThe Office of the Auditor General was first formally established during British rule, under the Burma Act of 1935. In post-colonial Burma, the Office of the Auditor General was initially established in 1948 under the Parliament's Auditor General Act of 1948, which provided for the appointment of the Auditor General. In 1974, the Pyithu Hluttaw passed the Council of People’s Inspectors Law, which repealed the 1948 law and merged all auditing agencies, except the Controller of Military Accounts, into a centralised agency, the Central Accounts Office, in January 1974. On 27 September 1988, the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), which had recently seized power, appointed an Auditor General and Deputy Auditor General, under Order No. 7/88, and repealed the 1975 Law under Order No. 5/88 and the Auditor General Law of 1988. On 8 March 1994, the State Law and Order Restoration Council replaced the Accounting Law, which established an Office of the Auditor General of the Union (OAG) that acts as the Secretariat of the Myanmar Accountancy Council, the nation's professional accountancy body. OAG's functions are currently governed by the 2008 Constitution of Burma and the Auditor General of the Union Law of 2010, which repealed the 1988 law. Thein Htaik died and a new Auditor General, U Myo Myint, was appointed to the position in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947934", "title": "Open city", "text": "Open city\n\nIn war, in the event of the imminent capture of a city, the government/military structure of the state that controls the city will sometimes declare it an open city, thus announcing that it has abandoned all defensive efforts. The attacking armies of the opposing military will then be expected not to bomb or otherwise attack the city but simply march in. The concept aims at protecting the city's resident civilians and historic landmarks from an unnecessary battle.\n\nAttacking forces do not always respect the declaration of an \"open city\". Defensive forces will use it as a political tactic as well. In some cases, the declaration of a city to be \"open\" is made by a side on the verge of defeat and surrender; in other cases, those making such a declaration are willing and able to fight on but prefer that the specific city be spared.\n\nAccording to the Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions, it is forbidden for the attacking party to \"attack, by any means whatsoever, non-defended localities\".\n\nSeveral cities were declared open during World War II:\n\nIn 1977, a far-left group in Japan—called the \"National Open City Declaration Movement Network\"—began organizing activists to make cities preemptively declare themselves \"defenseless\" under the Geneva Convention, so that in the event of war, they would be legally forced to welcome any invasion. This was rejected by nearly all of Japan's political parties and the ruling government as inherently absurd, since Japan was not in a war, and in the event of war such a decision would have to be approved by the national government. However, the Social Democratic Party—which was the junior party of the ruling coalition from 1994 to 1996—supported it.\n\nNevertheless, four wards of Tokyo and Kagoshima City, Japan's southernmost port, among many other cities, are considering legislation to be declared \"open cities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20015407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20015407", "title": "Organic Act of 1897", "text": "Organic Act of 1897\n\nThe Forest Service Organic Administration Act of 1897 provided the main statutory basis for the management of forest reserves in the United States, hence the commonly used term \"Organic Act\". The legislation's formal title is the Sundry Civil Appropriations Act of 1897, which was signed into law on June 4, 1897, by President William McKinley.\n\nThis law was the first step toward legislation concerning the management, protection and care of the nation's forest reserves. Its features include:\n\nThis last item gave two separate branches of the Department of Interior responsibility-The GLO for the sale, claims and administration of the reserves and the USGS for the drawing of boundaries and land maps. \nAccording to the Organic Act, the intention of the forest reservations was \"to improve and protect the forest within the reservation... securing favorable conditions of water flows, and to furnish a continuous supply of timber for the use and necessities of citizens of the United States.\" \nThis law is one of two of the most important legislative events in US Forest Service history (the other being the Transfer Act of 1905). The nation now had forest reserves and the means to protect and manage them. The basic elements of federal forestry were now established.\n\nAs instructed by the new law, a Division of Geography and Forestry was set up within the USGS. Henry Gannet was the new division's chief and produced surveys of the reserves that were of high quality and provided basic information necessary for effective management. These surveys, which included an atlas, were impressive, even today.\n\nThe Interior Department's Land Office section tried for a brief period to develop its capability to manage the reserves. Filibert Roth became the head of the General Land Office's \"Division R\"-the Forestry Division on November 15, 1901 and resigned two years later, in 1903.\n\nGifford Pinchot, of the United States Department of Agriculture's Division of Forestry at this time, advocated for the removal of the reserves from Interior and placed under the Agriculture Department so that the forest reserves and the foresters would all be under one department. He also had a poor opinion of the Land Office due to \"land office routine, political stupidity and wrong-headed points of view. \"\nA campaign was mounted toward this goal by Pinchot as well as the American Foresters Association and the Sierra Club.\nFinally, the effort paid off on Feb. 1905 when President Roosevelt signed into law the Forest Transfer Act.\n\nThe Izaak Walton League, a conservation group formed in 1922, that sought the complete abolishment of livestock grazing on national forest lands in the 1930s. The League's Los Angeles chapter petitioned Region 5 of the Forest Service to immediately and absolutely abolish all grazing permits of both sheep and cattle from California's national forest lands. The League's position was that sheep grazing was a costly mistake and a man-made hazard to forests and watersheds, that cattle grazing had been too heavy and that both types of livestock hindered wildlife.\n\nIn May 1973, the League successfully sued the Department of Agriculture over the clear-cut logging practices in the Monongahela National Forest as being contrary to the Organic Act of 1897 which stated that only \"dead, physically mature and large growth trees \"individually marked for cutting\" could be sold. The appeals court upheld the lower court's decision on August 1975.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40409445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40409445", "title": "People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (India)", "text": "People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (India)\n\nThe People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) is the armed wing of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), a banned organisation in India which aims to overthrow the government of India through people's war.\n\nThe People's Liberation Guerrilla Army was founded on 2 December 2000 and known as the People's Guerrilla Army (PGA) by the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) People's War, also known as the People's War Group. The PLGA was founded on the first death anniversary of their three Central Committee members, who were killed in an encounter in Koyyuru. In 2004, when the People's War Group merged with the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) to form the Communist Party of India (Maoist), their respective armed wings also merged. Therefore, the People's Guerrilla Army (the military wing of the People's War Group) and the People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (the military wing of MCCI) combined to form the People's Liberation Guerrilla Army.\n\nThe PLGA is controlled by the Central Military Commission of the CPI (Maoist). The analyses in September 2013, based on Maoists' intercepted communication, suggested that the estimated number of PLGA members had decreased (from 10,000 − 12,000) to 8,000 − 9,000. Recently in March 2014, Gautam Navlakha has claimed that the PLGA's strength did not decrease but has increased, however, the guerrilla zone has been geographically reduced. He writes that \"the number of companies and platoons of PLGA increased from 8 companies and 13 platoons in 2008 to 12 companies and more than 25 platoons, plus a supply platoon in 2013.\" All the PLGA members are volunteers and they do not receive any wages. The count of \"Jan\" (People's) Militia is around 38,000 which is mostly composed of the tribal people who uses bows and arrows as their weapons and allegedly provide logistical support to the PLGA. During her visitation to the Maoist's guerrilla zones few years back, Arundhati Roy noted that the PLGA was 45% female, but the recent analyses suggests that now the female comrades compose 60% of the PLGA. Now, the women commanders heads 20 of the 27 divisions in the Red corridor. It has a military intelligence wing, Central Instruction Team and the Central Action Team. Maoists manufactures 80% of their arms and looted others from the security forces. Kishenji was one of the commanders-in-chief of the PLGA who oversaw several attacks.\n\nOn 6 April 2010, an attack on Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in their camp in Dantewada district, Chhattisgarh killed 76 CRPF personnel. This is considered to be the biggest attack by the armed wing of the Maoist. On 25 May 2013, the PLGA targeted the convoy of Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh; twenty-seven people died, including Mahendra Karma, the founder of Salwa Judum. Karma had been the main target.\n\n"}
{"id": "10131502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10131502", "title": "Pico hydro", "text": "Pico hydro\n\nPico hydro is a term used for hydroelectric power generation of under 5 kW. These generators have proven to be useful in small, remote communities that require only a small amount of electricity for example, to power one or two fluorescent light bulbs and a TV or radio in 50 or so homes. Even smaller turbines of 200–300 W may power a single home in a developing country with a drop of only one meter. Pico-hydro setups typically are run-of-stream, meaning that a reservoir of water is not created, only a small weir is common, pipes divert some of the flow, drop this down a gradient, and through the turbine before being exhausted back to the stream.\n\nLike other hydroelectric and renewable source power generation, pollution and consumption of fossil fuels is reduced, though there is still typically an environmental cost to the manufacture of the generator and distribution methods.\n\nWith a growing DIY-community and an increasing interest in environmentally friendly \"green energy\", some hobbyists have endeavored to build their own hydroelectric plants from old water mills, from kits, or from scratch. The DIY-community has used abandoned water mills to mount a waterwheel and electrical generating components. This approach has also been popularized in the TV-series \"It's Not Easy Being Green\". These are usually smaller turbines of ~5 kW or less. Through the internet, the community is now able to obtain plans to construct DIY-water turbines, and there is a growing trend toward building them for domestic requirements. The DIY-hydroelectric plants are now being used both in developed countries and in developing countries, to power residences and small businesses. Two examples of pico hydro power can be found in the towns of Kithamba and Thimba in the Central Province of Kenya. These produce 1.1 kW and 2.2 kW, respectively. Local residents were trained to maintain the hydro schemes. The pico hydro sites in Kenya won Ashden Awards for Sustainable Energy.\n\nUsing a pumped-storage system of cisterns and small generators, pico hydro may also be effective for \"closed loop\" home systems. \nIn Vietnam, several Chinese manufacturers have sold pico-powerplants at prices as low as $20–70 for a powerplant of 300–500 W. However, the devices sold are said to be low in quality and may damage connected equipment if connected improperly.\n\nSam Redfield of the Appropriate Infrastructure Development Group (AIDG) has developed a pico-hydro generator made from common PVC pipe and a modified Toyota alternator housed in a five gallon bucket. The generator was developed to provide power to communities without access to the electricity grid in developing countries. Envisioned as an energy source to charge cell phones, provide lighting and charge batteries, the generator is designed to be made by artisans with basic skills and can be built for less than $150.00. The Toyota alternator used in the generator is converted to a permanent magnet alternator allowing it to generate power at low RPMs. The Five Gallon Bucket Hydroelectric Generator was the subject of a work group at the 2008 International Development Design Summit (IDDS) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During the Summer of 2013, an energy project in Abra Malaga, Peru was completed using the bucket generator.\n\nA website has been put together as a forum for ideas and further iterations of the generator that includes a \"build manual\". Common centrifugal water pumps, can be operated in reverse to act as turbines. While these machines rarely have optimum hydraulic characteristics when operated as turbines, their availability and low cost makes them attractive.\n\nIf the power will be used more than 30 meters (100 feet) from the generator, then the transmission distance may be an important consideration. Many small systems use automotive alternators producing 12 VDC, and possibly charging a battery. For example, a 12 V system that produces 1 kW of power has a flow of 80 A and the wire size is 4-gauge. The cost to run two strands of wire 1000' is $2400(US). To avoid such a large wire cost a higher voltage and lower current is required. If a 240 VAC alternator is used instead the flow is only 4 A over 1000' of 18 gauge wire costing $180(US). The cost of wire resulted in North America using 120/240 VAC after DC voltage lost the War of Currents in the late 1800s. Another approach to reduce wire costs is to have a 12 VDC alternator with a short high current connection to an inverter outputting 120 VAC or 240 VAC at a much lower current on a long length of thinner wire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14154008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14154008", "title": "Police cadet", "text": "Police cadet\n\nA police cadet can refer either to a trainee police officer or to a member of a youth organisation in which young people learn about and/or participate in law enforcement and police work.\n\nMany police departments in the United States offer police cadet programmes, as do a number of police forces in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "513246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513246", "title": "Rebellion", "text": "Rebellion\n\nRebellion, uprising, or insurrection is a refusal of obedience or order. It refers to the open resistance against the orders of an established authority. The term comes from the Latin verb \"rebellō,\" \"I renew war\" (from \"re-\" (\"again\") + \"bellō\" (\"I wage war/I revolt\"). The rebel is the individual that partakes in rebellion or rebellious activities, particularly when armed. Thus, the term \"rebellion\" also refers to the ensemble of rebels in a state of revolt.\n\nA rebellion originates from a sentiment of indignation and disapproval of a situation and then manifests itself by the refusal to submit or to obey the authority responsible for this situation. Rebellion can be individual or collective, peaceful (civil disobedience, civil resistance, and nonviolent resistance) or violent (terrorism, sabotage and guerrilla warfare.) \n\nIn political terms, rebellion and revolt are often distinguished by their different aims. If rebellion generally seeks to evade and/or gain concessions from an oppressive power, a revolt seeks to overthrow and destroy that power, as well as its accompanying laws. The goal of rebellion is resistance while a revolt seeks a revolution. As power shifts relative to the external adversary, or power shifts within a mixed coalition, or positions harden or soften on either side, an insurrection may seesaw between the two forms.\n\nThe following theories broadly build on the Marxist interpretation of rebellion. They explore the causes of rebellion from a wide lens perspective. Rebellion is studied, in Theda Skocpol's words, by analyzing \"objective relationships and conflicts among variously situated groups and nations, rather than the interests, outlooks, or ideologies of particular actors in revolutions\".\n\nKarl Marx's analysis of revolutions sees such expression of political violence not as anomic, episodic outbursts of discontents but rather the symptomatic expression of a particular set of objective but fundamentally contradicting class-based relations of power. Indeed, the central tenet of Marxist philosophy, as expressed in , is the analysis of society's mode of production (technology and labor) concomitant with the ownership of productive institutions and the division of profit. Marx writes about \"the hidden structure of society\" that must be elucidated through an examination of \"the direct relationship of the owners of the conditions of production to the direct producers\". The mismatch, between one mode of production, between the social forces and the social ownership of the production, is at the origin of the revolution. The inner imbalance within these modes of production is derived from the conflicting modes of organization, such as capitalism within feudalism, or more appropriately socialism within capitalism. The dynamics engineered by these class frictions help class consciousness root itself in the collective imaginary. For example, the development of the bourgeoisie class went from oppressed merchant class to urban independence, eventually gaining enough power to represent the state as a whole. Social movements, thus, are determined by an exogenous set of circumstances. The proletariat must also, according to Marx, go through the same process of self-determination which can only be achieved by friction against the bourgeoisie. In Marx's theory revolutions are the \"locomotives of history\", it is because rebellion has for ultimate goal to overthrow the ruling class and its antiquated mode of production. Later, rebellion attempts to replace it with a new system of political economy, one that is better suited to the new ruling class, thus enabling societal progress. The cycle of rebellion, thus, replaces one mode of production by another through the constant class friction.\n\nIn his book \"Why Men Rebel\", Ted Gurr looks at the roots of political violence itself applied to a rebellion framework. He defines political violence as: \"all collective attacks within a political community against the political regime, its actors [...] or its policies. The concept represents a set of events, a common property of which is the actual or threatened use of violence\". Gurr sees in violence a voice of anger that manifests itself against the established order. More precisely, individuals become angry when they feel what Gurr labels as relative deprivation, meaning the feeling of getting less than one is entitled to. He labels it formally as the \"perceived discrepancy between value expectations and value capabilities\". Gurr differentiates between three types of relative deprivation:\nAnger is thus comparative. One of his key insight is that \"The potential for collective violence varies strongly with the intensity and scope of relative deprivation among members of a collectivity\". This means that different individuals within society will have different propensities to rebel based on their particular internalization of their situation. As such, Gurr differentiates between three types of political violence:\n\nIn \"From Mobilization to Revolution\", Charles Tilly argues that political violence is a normal and endogenous reaction to competition for power between different groups within society. \"Collective violence\", Tilly writes, \"is the product of just normal processes of competition among groups in order to obtain the power and implicitly to fulfill their desires”. He proposes two models to analyze political violence:\nRevolutions are included in this theory, although they remain for Tilly particularly extreme since the challenger(s) aim for nothing less than full control over power. The \"revolutionary moment occurs when the population needs to choose to obey either the government or an alternative body who is engaged with the government in a zero sum game. This is what Tilly calls \"multiple sovereignty\". The success of a revolutionary movement hinges on \"the formation of coalitions between members of the polity and the contenders advancing exclusive alternative claims to control over Government.\".\n\nFor Chalmers Johnson, rebellions are not so much the product of political violence or collective action but in \"the analysis of viable, functioning societies\". In a quasi-biological manner, Johnson sees revolutions as symptoms of pathologies within the societal fabric. A healthy society, meaning a \"value-coordinated social system\" does not experience political violence. Johnson's equilibrium is at the intersection between the need for society adapt to changes but at the same time firmly grounded in selective fundamental values. The legitimacy of a political order, he posits, relies exclusively on its compliance with these societal values and in its capacity to integrate and adapt to any change. Rigidity is, in other words, inadmissible. Johnson writes \"to make a revolution is to accept violence for the purpose of causing the system to change; more exactly, it is the purposive implementation of a strategy of violence in order to effect a change in social structure\". The aim of a revolution is to re-align a political order on new societal values introduced by an externality that the system itself has not been able to process. Rebellions automatically must face a certain amount of coercion because by becoming \"de-synchronized\", the now illegitimate political order will have to use coercion to maintain its position. A simplified example would be the French Revolution when the Parisian Bourgeoisie did not recognize the core values and outlook of the King as synchronized with its own orientations. More than the King itself, what really sparked the violence was the uncompromising intransigence of the ruling class. Johnson emphasizes \"the necessity of investigating a system's value structure and its problems in order to conceptualize the revolutionary situation in any meaningful way\".\n\nSkocpol introduces the concept of the social revolution, to be contrasted with a political revolution. While the later aims to change the polity, the former is \"rapid, basic transformations of a society's state and class structures; and they are accompanied and in part carried through by class-based revolts from below\". Social revolutions are grassroots movement by nature because they do more than change the modalities of power, they aim to transform the fundamental social structure of society. As a corollary, this means that some \"revolutions\" may cosmetically change the organization of the monopoly over power without engineering any true change in the social fabric of society. Her analysis is limited to studying the French, Russian, and Chinese revolutions. Skocpol identifies three stages of the revolution in these cases (which she believes can be extrapolated and generalized), each accordingly accompanied by specific structural factors which in turn influence the social results of the political action. \nHere is a summary of the causes and consequences of social revolutions in these three countries, according to Skocpol:\nThe following theories are all based on Mancur Olson's work in \"The Logic of Collective Action\",a 1965 book that conceptualizes the inherent problem with an activity that has concentrated costs and diffuse benefits. In this case, the benefits of rebellion are seen as a public good, meaning one that is non-excludable and non-rivalrous. Indeed, the political benefits are generally shared by all in society if a rebellion is successful, not just the individuals that have partaken in the rebellion itself. Olson thus challenges the assumption that simple interests in common are all that is necessary for collective action. In fact, he argues the \"free rider\" possibility, a term that means to reap the benefits without paying the price, will deter rational individuals from collective action. That is, unless there is a clear benefit, a rebellion will not happen en masse. Thus, Olson shows that \"selective incentives\", only made accessible to individuals participating in the collective effort, can solve the free rider problem.\n\nSamuel L. Popkin builds on Olson's argument in \"The Rational Peasant: The Political Economy of Rural Society in Vietnam.\" His theory is based on the figure of a hyper rational peasant that bases his decision to join (or not) a rebellion uniquely on a cost-benefit analysis. This formalist view of the collective action problem stresses the importance of individual economic rationality and self-interest: a peasant, according to Popkin, will disregard the ideological dimension of a social movement and focus instead on whether or not it will bring any practical benefit to him. According to Popkin, peasant society is based on a precarious structure of economic instability. Social norms, he writes, are \"malleable, renegotiated, and shifting in accord with considerations of power and strategic interaction among individuals\" Indeed, the constant insecurity and inherent risk to the peasant condition, due to the peculiar nature of the patron-client relationship that binds the peasant to his landowner, forces the peasant to look inwards when he has a choice to make. Popkin argues that peasants rely on their \"private, family investment for their long run security and that they will be interested in short term gain vis-à-vis the village. They will attempt to improve their long-run security by moving to a position with higher income and less variance\". Popkin stresses this \"investor logic\" that one may not expect in agrarian societies, usually seen as pre-capitalist communities where traditional social and power structures prevent the accumulation of capital. Yet, the selfish determinants of collective action are, according to Popkin, a direct product of the inherent instability of peasant life. The goal of a laborer, for example, will be to move to a tenant position, then smallholder, then landlord; where there is less variance and more income. Voluntarism is thus non-existent in such communities.\n\nPopkin singles out four variables that impact individual participation:\nWithout any moral commitment to the community, this situation will engineer free riders. Popkin argues that selective incentives are necessary to overcome this problem.\n\nPolitical Scientist Christopher Blattman and World Bank economist Laura Alston identify rebellious activity as an \"occupational choice\". They draw a parallel between criminal activity and rebellion, arguing that the risks and potential payoffs an individual must calculate when making the decision to join such a movement remains similar between the two activities. In both cases, only a selected few reap important benefits, while most of the members of the group do not receive similar payoffs. The choice to rebel is inherently linked with its opportunity cost, namely what an individual is ready to give up in order to rebel. Thus, the available options beside rebellious or criminal activity matter just as much as the rebellion itself when the individual makes the decision. Blattman and Alston, however, recognize that \"a poor person's best strategy\" might be both rebellion illicit and legitimate activities at the same time. Individuals, they argue, can often have a varied \"portofolio\" of activities, suggesting that they all operate on a rational, profit maximizing logic. The authors conclude that the best way to fight rebellion is to increase its opportunity cost, both by more enforcement but also by minimizing the potential material gains of a rebellion.\n\nThe decision to join a rebellion can be based on the prestige and social status associated with membership in the rebellious group. More than material incentives for the individual, rebellions offer their members club goods, public goods that are reserved only for the members inside that group. Economist Eli Berman and Political Scientist David D. Laitin's study of radical religious groups show that the appeal of club goods can help explain individual membership. Berman and Laitin discuss suicide operations, meaning acts that have the highest cost for an individual. They find that in such a framework, the real danger to an organization is not volunteering but preventing defection. Furthermore, the decision to enroll in such high stakes organization can be rationalized. Berman and Laitin show that religious organizations supplant the state when it fails to provide an acceptable quality of public goods such a public safety, basic infrastructure, access to utilities, or schooling. Suicide operations \"can be explained as a costly signal of “commitment” to the community\". They further note \"Groups less adept at extracting signals of commitment (sacrifices) may not be able to consistently enforce incentive compatibility.\" Thus, rebellious groups can organize themselves to \"ask\" of members proof of commitment to the cause. Club goods serve not so much to coax individuals into joining but to prevent defection.\n\nWorld Bank economists Paul Collier and Anke Hoeffler compare two dimensions of incentives:\nVollier and Hoeffler find that the model based on grievance variables systematically fails to predict past conflicts, while the model based on greed performs well. The authors posit that the high cost of risk to society is not taken into account seriously by the grievance model: individuals are fundamentally risk-adverse. However, they allow that conflicts create grievances, which in turn can become risk factors. Contrary to established beliefs, they also find that a multiplicity of ethnic communities make society safer, since individuals will be automatically more cautious, at the opposite of the grievance model predictions. Finally, the authors also note that the grievances expressed by members of the diaspora of a community in turmoil has an important on the continuation of violence. Both greed and grievance thus need to be included in the reflection.\n\nSpearheaded by political scientist and anthropologist James C. Scott in his book \"\", the moral economy school considers moral variables such as social norms, moral values, interpretation of justice, and conception of duty to the community as the prime influencers of the decision to rebel. This perspective still adheres to Olson's framework, but it considers different variables to enter the cost/benefit analysis: the individual is still believed to be rational, albeit not on material but moral grounds.\n\nBefore being fully conceptualized by Scott, British historian E.P. Thompson was the first to use the term \"moral economy\" in \"Moral Economy of the English Crowd in the Eighteenth Century\". In this work, he discussed English bread riots, regular, localized form of rebellion by English peasants all through the 18th century. Such events, Thompson argues, have been routinely dismissed as \"riotous\", with the connotation of being disorganized, spontaneous, undirected, and undisciplined. In other words, anecdotal. The reality, he suggests, was otherwise: such riots involved a coordinated peasant action, from the pillaging of food convoys to the seizure of grain shops. Here, while a scholar such as Popkin would have argued that the peasants were trying to gain material benefits (crudely: more food), Thompson sees a legitimization factor, meaning \"a belief that [the peasants] were defending traditional rights and customs\". Thompson goes on to write: \"[the riots were] legitimized by the assumptions of an older moral economy, which taught the immorality of any unfair method of forcing up the price of provisions by profiteering upon the necessities of the people\". Later, reflecting on this work, Thompson would also write: \"My object of analysis was the \"mentalité\", or, as I would prefer, the political culture, the expectations, traditions, and indeed, superstitions of the working population most frequently involved in actions in the market\". The opposition between a traditional, paternalist, and the communitarian set of values clashing with the inverse liberal, capitalist, and market-derived ethics is central to explain rebellion.\n\nIn , James C. Scott looks at the impact of exogenous economic and political shocks on peasant communities in Southeast Asia. Scott finds that peasants are mostly in the business of surviving and producing enough to subsist. Therefore, any extractive regime needs to respect this careful equilibrium. He labels this phenomenon the \"subsistence ethic\". A landowner operating in such communities is seen to have the moral duty to prioritize the peasant's subsistence over his constant benefit. According to Scott, the powerful colonial state accompanied by market capitalism did not respect this fundamental hidden law in peasant societies. Rebellious movements occurred as the reaction to an emotional grief, a moral outrage.\n\nBlattman and Ralston recognize the importance of immaterial selective incentives, such as anger, outrage, and injustice (\"grievance\") in the roots of rebellions. These variable,s they argue, are far from being irrational, as they are sometimes presented. They identify three main types of grievance arguments:\n\nStathis N. Kalyvas, a political science professor at Yale University, argues that political violence is heavily influenced by hyperlocal socio-economic factors, from the mundane traditional family rivalries to repressed grudges. Rebellion, or any sort of political violence, are not binary conflicts but must be understood as interactions between public and private identities and actions. The \"convergence of local motives and supralocal imperatives\" make studying and theorizing rebellion a very complex affair, at the intersection between the political and the private, the collective and the individual.\nKalyvas argues that we often try to group political conflicts according to two structural paradigms:\nKalyvas' key insight is that the central vs periphery dynamic is fundamental in political conflicts. Any individual actor, Kalyvas posits, enters into a calculated \"alliance\" with the collective. Rebellions thus cannot be analyzed in molar categories, nor should we assume that individuals are automatically in line with the rest of the actors simply by virtue of ideological, religious, ethnic, or class cleavage. The agency is located both within the collective and in the individual, in the universal and the local. Kalyvas writes: \"Alliance entails a \"transaction\" between supralocal and local actors, whereby the former supply the later with external muscle, thus allowing them to win decisive local advantage, in exchange the former rely on local conflicts to recruit and motivate supporters and obtain local control, resources, and information- even when their ideological agenda is opposed to localism\". Individuals will thus aim to use the rebellion in order to gain some sort of local advantage, while the collective actors will aim to gain power. Violence is a mean as opposed to a goal, according to Kalyvas.\n\nThe greater takeaway from this central/local analytical lens is that violence is not an anarchic tactic or a manipulation by an ideology, but a conversation between the two. Rebellions are \"concatenations of multiple and often disparate local cleavages, more or less loosely arranged around the master cleavage\". Any pre-conceived explanation or theory of a conflict must not be placated on a situation, lest one will construct a reality that adapts itself to his pre-conceived idea. Kalyvas thus argues that political conflict is not always political in the sense that they cannot be reduced to a certain discourse, decisions, or ideologies from the \"center\" of collective action. Instead, the focus must be on \"local cleavages and intracommunity dynamics\". Furthermore, rebellion is not \"a mere mechanism that opens up the floodgates to random and anarchical private violence\". Rather, it is the result of a careful and precarious alliance between local motivations and collective vectors to help the individual cause.\n\nAn armed but limited rebellion is an insurrection, and if the established government does not recognize the rebels as belligerents then they are insurgents and the revolt is an insurgency. In a larger conflict the rebels may be recognized as belligerents without their government being recognized by the established government, in which case the conflict becomes a civil war.\n\nCivil resistance movements have often aimed at, and brought about, the fall of a government or head of state, and in these cases could be considered a form of rebellion. In many of these cases the opposition movement saw itself not only as nonviolent, but also as upholding their country's constitutional system against a government that was unlawful, for example if it had refused to acknowledge its defeat in an election. Thus the term \"rebel\" does not always capture the element in some of these movements of acting as a defender of legality and constitutionalism.\n\nThere are a number of terms that are associated with \"rebel\" and \"rebellion\". They range from those with positive connotations to those with pejorative connotations. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560978", "title": "Sasine", "text": "Sasine\n\nSasine in Scots law is the delivery of feudal property, typically land.\n\nFeudal property means immovable property, and includes everything that naturally goes with the property. For land, that would include such things as buildings, trees, and underground minerals. A superior (e.g., a heritor) might authorise his agent or factor to give possession of his property to someone else through a document known as a \"precept of sasine\".\n\nOver time, sasine came to be used in common speech as a reference to the deed or document recording the transfer, rather than to the transfer itself. Hence phrases such as \"to give sasines\", \"to deliver sasines\", \"to receive sasines\", \"to take sasines\".\n\nAlternate spellings: \"seizin\", \"seisin\", \"sasin\", \"seasin\", \"sasing\", \"seasing\", \"sesin\", \"seasin\", \"sesine\", \"seasine\", \"saisine\".\n\nA Register of Sasines was created in every locality by the Registration Act 1617. It functions to this day on a national level as the General Register of Sasines.\n\nTransfers of property were originally by symbolic delivery, by handing over a clump of ground or a stone or similar object on the property itself, and then registering the \"deed of conveyance\" in the local \"Register of Sasines\". The term 'Instrument of Sasine' was actually the recording of the event of the symbolic delivery of the property as witnessed, and minuted, by a Court Official in attendance for that purpose. Actual \"sasines\" on the land itself were made unnecessary by an act of 1845. The \"instrument of \"sasines\"\" was superseded by the recording of the conveyance with a \"warrant of registration\" by an act of 1858.\n\nThe corresponding term in English law was livery of seisin (but not the term seisin).\n\n"}
{"id": "26952610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26952610", "title": "Scottish Council for Research in Education", "text": "Scottish Council for Research in Education\n\nThe Scottish Council for Research in Education (SCRE) was set up by the Scottish teachers’ union (The Educational Institute of Scotland, EIS) and the Association of Directors of Education in 1928. At that time, there were no similar organisations anywhere in the world . The Council itself consisted of some 60 members drawn from a wide range of bodies with an interest in education . This Council appointed a director and arranged for some basic funding to come from government local authorities, but the EIS provided free accommodation and secretarial assistance. For more than 20 years, most of the work was carried out by groups of teachers on a voluntary basis.\n\nThroughout these years and on into the 1980s Council staff and associates made distinguished contributions to educational research, often setting world standards. Two key reports were the reports of 1921 and 1947\n\nThe authors of the Council's early publications make up a who's who of the greats in this field — Godfrey Thomson, Drever, P.E.Vernon, McClelland and Boyd. These men influenced educational thinking throughout the world. They found worthy successors in later years — Maxwell, Fraser, Clark, Nisbet, Hope, Dockrell, Patricia Broadfoot, Spencer, John Raven, Ian Deary.\n\nIn later years the Council's research programme came more and more under government control with the Council itself finally being disbanded and the few remaining staff moved to an all-but non-existent renamed Scottish Center for Educational research within the Faculty of Education of Glasgow University. Its website was likewise disbanded. For this reason a complete list of the publications of the Council is no longer available.\n\nA short but comprehensive account of the Council's work has been contributed by Powell and an earlier, but fuller, account by Morris.\n\nPowell, John L. (2012) \"The Scottish Council for Research in Education 1928-2003: a Short History\", \"Scottish Educational Review\", 44, 59-76. www.scotedreview.org.uk/pdf/348pdf\n\nMorris, J.G. (1994) \"The Scottish Council for Educational Research 1928-1993\". Edinburgh University PhD thesis. (Copy available from National Library for Scotland.)\n\nSome indication of the scope of the Council's more recent work may be derived from the list below. Although several are not Council publications they indicate the nature of some of the work ... and refer to subsequent developments built upon it.\n\nDockrell, W. B., Broadfoot, P. M. et al. (1977). \"Pupils in Profile\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nDockrell, W.B. & Hamilton, D. (1980). \"Rethinking Educational Research\". London: Hodder & Saughton.\n\nHamilton, D., Jenkins, D., King, C., MacDonald, B., & Parlett, M. (Eds.). (1977). \"Beyond the Numbers Game\". London: MacMillan Education.\n\nHope, K. (1984). \"As Others See Us: Schooling and Social Mobility in Scotland and the United States\". New York: Cambridge University Press.\n\nRaven, J., & Stephenson, J. (Eds.). (2001). \"Competence in the Learning Society\". New York: Peter Lang.\n\nRaven, J., & Raven, J. (Eds.). (2008). \"Uses and Abuses of Intelligence: Studies Advancing Spearman and Raven’s Quest for Non-Arbitrary Metrics\". Unionville, New York: Royal Fireworks Press; Edinburgh, Scotland: Competency Motivation Project; Budapest, Hungary: EDGE 2000; Cluj Napoca, Romania: Romanian Psychological Testing Services SRL.\n\nSpencer, E. (1983). \"Writing Matters Across the Curriculum\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nA list of some 70 publications by a previous Director, W. Bryan Dockrell, will be found in a link cited on that page.\n\nPublications from the Scottish Mental Surveys\n\nMacPherson, J. S. (1958). \"Eleven Year Olds Grow Up\". London: University of London Press.\n\nMaxwell, J. N. (1961). \"The Level and Trend of National Intelligence: The Contribution of the Scottish Mental Surveys\". London: University of London Press.\n\nMaxwell, J. N. (1969). \"Sixteen Years On\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nHope, K. (1984). \"As Others See Us: Schooling and Social Mobility in Scotland and the United States\". New York: Cambridge University Press.\n\nDeary, I. J., Whalley, L. W., Lemmon, H., Crawford, J. R., & Starr, J. M. (2000). The stability of individual differences in mental ability from childhood to old age: Follow-up of the 1932 Scottish Mental Survey. \"Intelligence\", 28(1), 49-55.\n\n"}
{"id": "3741151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3741151", "title": "Signing statement", "text": "Signing statement\n\nA signing statement is a written pronouncement issued by the President of the United States upon the signing of a bill into law. They are usually printed along with the bill in \"United States Code Congressional and Administrative News\" (USCCAN). The statements begin with wording such as \"This bill, which I have signed today\" and continue with a brief description of the bill and often several paragraphs of political commentary.\n\nDuring the administration of President George W. Bush, there was a controversy over the President's use of signing statements, which critics charged was unusually extensive and modified the meaning of statutes. The practice predates the Bush administration, however, and was also used by the succeeding Obama administration. In July 2006, a task force of the American Bar Association stated that the use of signing statements to modify the meaning of duly enacted laws serves to \"undermine the rule of law and our constitutional system of separation of powers\".\n\nA study released by then-Assistant Attorney General Walter Dellinger (1993–1996) grouped signing statements into three categories:\n\n\nIn recent usage, the phrase \"signing statement\" has referred mostly to statements relating to constitutional matters that direct executive agencies to apply the law according to the president's interpretation of the Constitution.\n\nThe \"non-signing statement\" is a related method that some presidents have used to express concerns about certain provisions in a bill without vetoing it. With the non-signing statement, presidents announce their reasons for declining to sign, while allowing the bill to become law unsigned. The U.S. Constitution allows such enactments by default: if the President does not sign the bill, it becomes law after ten days, excepting Sundays, \"unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return...\"\n\nThere is a controversy about how to count an executive's use of signing statements. A \"flat count\" of total signing statements would include the rhetorical and political statements as well as the constitutional. This may give a misleading number when the intent is to count the number of constitutional challenges issued. \nAnother common metric is to count the \"number of statutes\" that are disputed by signing statements. This addresses a count of the constitutional issues but may be inherently inaccurate, due not only to ambiguity in the signing statements themselves but also to the method of determining which statutes are challenged.\n\nA Congressional Research Service report issued on September 17, 2007, uses as a metric the percentage of signing statements that contain \"objections\" to provisions of the bill being signed into law:\n\nIn March 2009, \"The New York Times\" cited a different metric, the number of sections within bills that were challenged in signing statements:\n\nNo United States Constitution provision, federal statute, or common-law principle explicitly permits or prohibits signing statements. However, there is also no part of the Constitution that grants legal value to signing statements. Article I, (in the Presentment Clause) empowers the president to veto a law in its entirety, to sign it, or to do nothing. Article II, requires that the executive \"take care that the laws be faithfully executed\". The Constitution does not authorize the President to cherry-pick which parts of validly enacted Congressional Laws he is going to obey and execute, and which he is not.\n\nSigning statements do not appear to have legal force by themselves, although they are all published in the \"Federal Register\". As a practical matter, they may give notice of the way that the Executive intends to implement a law, which may make them more significant than the text of the law itself. There is a controversy about whether they should be considered as part of legislative history; proponents argue that they reflect the executive's position in negotiating with Congress; opponents assert that the executive's view of a law is not constitutionally part of the legislative history because only the Congress may make law.\n\nPresidential signing statements maintain particular potency with federal executive agencies, since these agencies are often responsible for the administration and enforcement of federal laws. A 2007 article in the \"Administrative Law Review\" noted how some federal agencies' usage of signing statements may not withstand legal challenges under common law standards of judicial deference to agency action.\n\nThe Supreme Court has not squarely addressed the limits of signing statements. \"Marbury v. Madison\" (1803) and its progeny are generally considered to have established judicial review as a power of the Court, rather than of the Executive. \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\", 467 U.S. 837 (1984), established court deference to executive interpretations of a law \"if Congress has not directly spoken to the precise question at issue\" and if the interpretation is reasonable. This applies only to executive agencies; the President himself is not entitled to Chevron deference. To the extent that a signing statement would nullify part or all of a law, the Court may have addressed the matter in \"Clinton v. City of New York\" (1998), which invalidated the line-item veto because it violated bicameralism and presentment.\n\nIn \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" (2006), the Supreme Court gave no weight to a signing statement in interpreting the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, according to that case's dissent (which included Justice Samuel Alito, a proponent of expanded signing statements when he worked in the Reagan Justice Department – see \"Presidential usage\" below).\n\nThe first president to issue a signing statement was James Monroe. Until the 1980s, with some exceptions, signing statements were generally triumphal, rhetorical, or political proclamations and went mostly unannounced. Until Ronald Reagan became President, only 75 statements had been issued; Reagan and his successors George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton produced 247 signing statements among the three of them. By the end of 2004, George W. Bush had issued 108 signing statements containing 505 constitutional challenges. As of January 30, 2008, he had signed 157 signing statements challenging over 1,100 provisions of federal law.\n\nThe upswing in the use of signing statements during the Reagan administration coincides with the writing by Samuel Alito – then a staff attorney in the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel – of a 1986 memorandum making the case for \"interpretive signing statements\" as a tool to \"increase the power of the Executive to shape the law\". Alito proposed adding signing statements to a \"reasonable number of bills\" as a pilot project, but warned that \"Congress is likely to resent the fact that the President will get in the last word on questions of interpretation.\"\n\nA November 3, 1993, memo from White House Counsel Bernard Nussbaum explained the use of signing statements to object to potentially unconstitutional legislation:\n\nThis same Department of Justice memorandum observed that use of presidential signing statements to create legislative history for the use of the courts was uncommon before the Reagan and Bush presidencies. In 1986, Attorney General Edwin Meese entered into an arrangement with the West Publishing Company to have Presidential signing statements published for the first time in the \"U.S. Code Congressional and Administrative News,\" the standard collection of legislative history.\n\nGeorge W. Bush's use of signing statements was and is controversial, both for the number of times employed (over 700 opinions, although Bill Clinton actually issued more) and for the apparent attempt to nullify legal restrictions on his actions through claims made in the statements – for example, his signing statement attached to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. Some opponents have said that he in effect uses signing statements as a line-item veto; the Supreme Court had previously ruled such vetoes as unconstitutional in the 1998 case, \"Clinton v. City of New York\".\n\nPrevious administrations had made use of signing statements to dispute the validity of a new law or its individual components. George H. W. Bush challenged 232 statutes through signing statements during four years in office and Clinton challenged 140 over eight years. George W. Bush's 130 signing statements contain at least 1,100 challenges.\n\nThe signing statement associated with the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, prohibiting cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment of detainees in U.S. custody attracted controversy:\n\nThe executive branch shall construe... the Act, relating to detainees, in a manner consistent with the constitutional authority of the President to supervise the unitary executive branch and as Commander in Chief and consistent with the constitutional limitations on the judicial power...\n\nThe use of signing statements that fall into the constitutional category can create conundrums for executive branch employees. Political scientist James Pfiffner has written: \n\nThe president is the head of the executive branch, and in general, executive branch officials are bound to follow his direction. In cases in which a subordinate is ordered to do something illegal, the person can legitimately refuse the order. But if the public administrator is ordered to refuse to execute the law ... because the president has determined that the law infringes on his own interpretation of his constitutional authority, the public administrator faces an ethical dilemma.\n\nOn July 24, 2006, the American Bar Association's Task Force on Presidential Signing Statements and the Separation of Powers Doctrine, appointed by ABA President Michael S. Greco, issued a widely publicized report condemning some uses of signing statements. The task force report and recommendations were unanimously approved by ABA delegates at their August 2006 meeting.\n\nThe bipartisan and independent blue ribbon panel was chaired by Miami lawyer Neal Sonnett, a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and Chief of the Criminal Division for the Southern District of Florida. He is past chair of the ABA Criminal Justice Section, chair of the ABA Task Force on Domestic Surveillance and the ABA Task Force on Treatment of Enemy Combatants; and president-elect of the American Judicature Society.\n\nThe report stated in part:\n\nOn March 9, 2009, President Barack Obama ordered his executive officials to consult Attorney General Eric Holder before relying on one of George W. Bush's signing statements to bypass a statute. He stated that he only plans to use signing statements when given legislation by Congress which contain unconstitutional provisions. In a memo to the heads of each department in the executive branch, Obama wrote:\n\nIn exercising my responsibility to determine whether a provision of an enrolled bill is unconstitutional, I will act with caution and restraint, based only on interpretations of the Constitution that are well-founded.\n\nDuring his presidential campaign, Obama rejected the use of signing statements. He was asked at one rally: \"when congress offers you a bill, do you promise not to use presidential signing statements to get your way?\" Obama gave a one-word reply: \"Yes.\" He added that \"we aren't going to use signing statements as a way to do an end run around Congress.\" On March 11, 2009, Obama issued his first signing statement, attached to the omnibus spending bill for the second half of the 2009 fiscal year.\n\nThis statement indicated that while the administration could ignore several provisions of the bill, they would advise congressional committees, and take congressional committees guidelines as advisory, as he considers that \"provisions of the legislation purport to condition the authority of officers to spend or reallocate funds on the approval of congressional committees\" and the result would be \"impermissible forms of legislative aggrandizement in the execution of the laws other than by enactment of statutes\", including sections dealing with negotiations with foreign governments, restrictions on US involvement in UN peacekeeping missions, protections for government whistleblowers, and certain congressional claims of authority over spending. Obama issued a total of 37 signing statements during the course of his presidency.\n\nSen. Arlen Specter (then a Republican of Pennsylvania) introduced the Presidential Signing Statements Act of 2006 on July 26, 2006. The bill would:\n\nThe bill was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, which Specter chaired at the time, on the day it was introduced. As with all unpassed bills, it expired with the end of the 109th United States Congress on December 9, 2006.\n\nSpecter reintroduced the legislation with the Presidential Signing Statements Act of 2007, but it died in the same committee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "683076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683076", "title": "Socialism with a human face", "text": "Socialism with a human face\n\nSocialism with a human face (in Czech: \"socialismus s lidskou tváří\", in Slovak: \"socializmus s ľudskou tvárou\") was a political programme announced by Alexander Dubček and his colleagues agreed at Presidium of Communist Party of Czechoslovakia on April 1968 after he became the chairman of the Party in January 1968. The first author of this slogan was Radovan Richta. It was a process of mild democratization and political liberalization that would still enable the Communist Party to maintain real power. Instead, it initiated the Prague spring which, on the night of 20-21 August 1968, was crushed by the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe programme was an attempt to overcome the disillusionment of the people of Czechoslovakia with the political and economic situation at the time. As the name suggests, the plan was to breathe new life into the ideals of socialism, which had lost popular support due to the government policies of the previous two decades. It never intended to bring back market capitalism.\n\nThe programme initially called for greater participation of the people in local and country politics under the umbrella of the Communist Party, for greater freedom of the press and of culture and emphasised the need for personal initiative in economics. The most loathed representatives of the previous style of rule were left to go.\n\nThe programme did not envisage the existence of independent political parties or private ownership of companies. Participation in Eastern Bloc structures was not questioned. The events of the Prague Spring, especially their speed and escalation, outstripped the original programme, to the surprise and dismay of its authors.\n\nThe subsequent developments became known as the Prague Spring, which on the night of 20–21 August 1968 was crushed by the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. The Soviet Union feared losing control over the country and invaded Czechoslovakia on 21 August with 200,000 troops and 5,000 tanks.\n\nThe liberalizing reforms were eliminated step by step and the country eventually returned to the centralized model with the Communist Party organizing every aspect of political and economic life. Most of the influential people involved in the programme lost their political power and became targets of persecution.\n\nThe only surviving change was federalization of the country (by creating the Czech Socialist Republic and the Slovak Socialist Republic in 1969). The Communist Party soon labeled \"socialism with a human face\" as an \"attempt to destroy the advantages of socialist society and bring back the old system of exploiting people\" and accused Western imperialism and emigrants for starting and nurturing the programme.\n\nIn 1987, the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev acknowledged that his liberalizing policies of glasnost and perestroika owed a great deal to Dubček's socialism with a human face. When asked what the difference was between the Prague Spring and his own reforms, Gorbachev replied: \"Nineteen years\".\n"}
{"id": "295734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295734", "title": "Southern Agrarians", "text": "Southern Agrarians\n\nThe Southern Agrarians (also the Twelve Southerners, the Vanderbilt Agrarians, the Nashville Agrarians, the Tennessee Agrarians, and the Fugitive Agrarians) were a group of twelve American writers, poets, essayists, and novelists, all with roots in the Southern United States, who united to write a pro–Southern agrarian manifesto, published as the essay collection \"I’ll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition\" (1930). The Southern Agrarians greatly contributed to the Southern Renaissance, the revival of Southern literature in the 1920s and 1930s, and were based at Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, with John Crowe Ransom as the unofficial leader.\n\nThe Southern Agrarians included:\n\nThe Agrarians were offended by H. L. Mencken's attacks on aspects of Southern culture that they valued, such as its agrarianism, conservatism, and religiosity. They sought to confront the widespread and rapidly increasing effects of modernity, urbanism, and industrialism on American (but especially Southern) culture and tradition. The informal leader of the Fugitives and the Agrarians was John Crowe Ransom, but in a 1945 essay, he announced that he no longer believed in either the possibility or the desirability of an Agrarian restoration, which he declared a \"fantasy\".\n\n\"I'll Take My Stand\" was attacked at the time, and since, as a reactionary and romanticized defense of the Old South and the Lost Cause of the Confederacy. It ignored slavery and denounced \"progress\", for example, and some critics considered it to be moved by nostalgia.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Agrarians were challenged by the modernizing social scientists (the \"Chapel Hill Sociologists\") based at the University of North Carolina (in Chapel Hill) and led by Howard W. Odum, on issues of urbanism, social progress, and the very nature and definition of the South. The sociologists produced Rupert Vance's \"The Human Geography of the South\" (1932), and Odum's \"Southern Regions of the United States\" (1936), as well as numerous articles in the journal \"Social Forces.\" The sociologists argued that the problems in the South stemmed from traditionalism which ought to and could be cured by modernization, the opposite of the Agrarian viewpoint.\n\nAt a reunion of the Fugitive Poets in 1956, Warren confessed that for about a decade — from just before World War II to some years after — he had shut Agrarianism from his mind as irrelevant to the cataclysmic social and political events then playing out in the world. Now, however, he believed that, rather than being irrelevant, his old Agrarian enthusiasms were tied into the major problems of the age. In the modern world, the individual had been marginalized, stripped of any sense of responsibility, or of past or place. \"In this context,\" writes Paul V. Murphy, \"the Agrarian image of a better antebellum South came to represent for Warren a potential source of spiritual revitalization. The past recalled, not as a mythical 'golden age' but 'imaginatively conceived and historically conceived in the strictest readings of the researchers', could be a 'rebuke to the present'.\"\n\nIt was Warren's concern with democracy, regionalism, personal liberty and individual responsibility that led him to support the civil rights movement, which he depicted in his nonfiction works \"Segregation\" (1956) and \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\" (1965) as a struggle for identity and individualism. As Hugh Ruppersburg, among others, has argued, Warren's support for the civil rights movement paradoxically stemmed from Agrarianism, which by the 1950s, meant for him something very different from the Agrarianism of \"I'll Take My Stand\". As Warren's political and social views evolved, his notion of Agrarianism evolved with them. He came to support more progressive ideas and racial integration and was a close friend of the eminent African-American author Ralph Ellison. While Donald Davidson took a leading role in the attempt to preserve the system of segregation, Warren took his stand against it. As Paul V. Murphy writes, \"Loyalty to the southern past and the ambiguous lessons of Agrarianism led both men in very different directions.\"\n\nIn recent decades, some traditionalistic conservatives such as Allan C. Carlson, Joseph Scotchie, and Eugene Genovese have praised the Agrarian themes in light of what they see as the failures of highly urbanized and industrialized modern societies.\n\nToday, the Southern Agrarians are regularly lauded in the conservative media such as the \"Southern Partisan\". Some of their social, economic, and political ideas have been refined and updated by writers such as Allan C. Carlson and Wendell Berry. The Intercollegiate Studies Institute has published books which further explore the ideas of the Agrarians.\n\nA key quote from the \"Introduction: A Statement of Principles\" to their 1930 book \"I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2400026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400026", "title": "State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus", "text": "State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus\n\nThe State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus (, КГБ, KGB; ) is the national intelligence agency of Belarus. Along with its counterparts in Transnistria and South Ossetia, it is one of the few intelligence agencies that kept the Russian name \"KGB\" after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, albeit it is lost in translation when written in Belarusian (becoming KDB rather than KGB).\n\nIt is the Belarusian successor organization to the KGB of the Soviet Union. Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky, who founded the Cheka – the original Bolshevik intelligence police – was born in what is now Belarus and remains an important figure in the state ideology of Belarus under president Alexander Lukashenko as well as a patron of the KGB of Belarus.\n\nIt is governed by the law \"About State Security Bodies of the Republic of Belarus\". \n\nMajor General Vadim Zaitsev, who was in charge of Lukashenko's personal security, was appointed its leader in July 2008. His tenure lasted until November 2012 and he was replaced by Valery Vakulchik. The KGB is formally controlled by the president of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko.\n\nAccording to human rights organisations, the United States, and the European Union, the KGB and its senior leadership play a key role in human rights violations and political repressions in Belarus. The KGB has maintained both the name, the symbols and some of the repressive functions of its Soviet predecessor, the KGB of the Soviet Union.\n\nSeveral dozens former Chairmen and senior officers of the KGB of Belarus have been included in the sanctions lists of the European Union and the United States, especially following the brutal crackdown of peaceful protests that followed the allegedly falsified presidential elections of 2006 and 2010. Against most of them, the sanctions have been lifted in 2016 following an improvement of the Belarus–European Union relations.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2011, commanders of the KGB in the regions of Belarus were accused by the EU of being responsible for political repressions in their regions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24326619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24326619", "title": "Taxpayer March on Washington", "text": "Taxpayer March on Washington\n\nThe Taxpayer March on Washington (also known as the 9/12 Tea Party) was a Tea Party protest march from Freedom Plaza to the United States Capitol held on September 12, 2009, in Washington, D.C. The event coincided with similar protests organized in various cities across the nation. The protesters rallied against what they consider big government, the dismantling of free market capitalism, abortion, and President Barack Obama's proposals on health care reform, taxation, and federal spending, among other issues.\n\nThe lead organizer of the event was Brendan Steinhauser, who was serving as the Director of Federal and State Campaigns for FreedomWorks. Organizers of the event included the 9-12 Project, FreedomWorks, the National Taxpayers Union, The Heartland Institute, Americans for Tax Reform, Tea Party Patriots, ResistNet and Americans for Prosperity. The event was also promoted by Fox News commentator Glenn Beck as a symbol of what he called \"national unity\" following the eight-year anniversary of the September 11 attacks. The march is the largest gathering of fiscal conservatives ever held in Washington, D.C., as well as the largest demonstration against President Obama's administration.\n\nA wide range of crowd estimates was suggested for the event, with most media sourcing the Public Information Officer of the D.C. Fire Department, who unofficially estimated the attendance \"in excess of 75,000\" people. The D.C. Fire Department later released a statement saying that they do not do crowd estimates, and any crowd estimation attributed to them was false; they also stated that an early estimate of 60,000 over Twitter was for a specific area, Freedom Plaza, not the total number of participants in the event. Event organizers also reported a range of attendance. FreedomWorks suggested between 600,000 and 800,000 participants while National Taxpayers Union said 200,000 to 300,000.\n\nFreedomWorks began planning the event in March 2009, according to a FreedomWorks spokesperson. The political advocacy groups Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks were \"probably the leading partners\" in the event, according to \"The Guardian\".\n\nOn Saturday, September 12, participants gathered at Freedom Plaza, located just east of the White House. The march was scheduled to proceed Pennsylvania Avenue at 11:30 a.m., led by a fife and drum corps, and march towards Capitol Hill; however due to a larger-than-expected number of protesters, the Plaza and surrounding area became overcrowded and the march set off one hour ahead of schedule.\n\nC-SPAN recorded the entire two-hour-50-minute rally, which was officially kicked off at 1:11 p.m. with a welcoming speech by Jenny Beth Martin, the co-founder and national coordinator of Tea Party Patriots.\n\nDuring the march, most protesters sang patriotic songs, chanted political slogans, waved the American flag or yellow Gadsden flag, or held signs covering a wide range of political topics.\n\nThough many of the signs were close to the original Tea Party message of \"Taxed Enough Already,\" such as \"Stop Obama's Spending Spree,\" some of the handwritten signs carried by protesters included statements such as \"Liar Liar Pants on Fire!\" and \"Hey Obamacare! Hands off my body\". Other signs promoted Obama citizenship conspiracy theories, depicted the Obama \"Joker\" image, and compared Obama to Adolf Hitler. One protester commented that many signs were \"expressing concerns about the tax burdens to be carried by \"our grandchildren\" and other signs he didn't feel were appropriate to repeat\". Gene Healy, author and vice president at the libertarian Cato Institute, expressed the opinion that the signs generally focused on opposition to government bailouts, Obama's proposal on health care reform, and the appointment of presidential \"czars\".\n\nAmong the speakers at the rally were former House Majority Leader Dick Armey, chairman of FreedomWorks, and a small number of congressional Republicans including Representative Mike Pence, chairman of the House Republican Conference, Representative Tom Price of Georgia, Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, and Representative Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee. Pence said that \"Americans want health care reform, but they don't want government takeover\".\n\nFollowing the event, a wide range of crowd estimates was reported by organizers, protesters, and members of the media. The space occupied by the crowd extended from the Capitol lawn down around the National Mall as far as Third Street. The crowd estimates mentioned in many news outlets included \"tens of thousands\" and \"between 60,000 and 75,000\", while many sourced the Public Information Officer of the D.C. Fire Department who unofficially estimated there were \"in excess of 75,000\" people in attendance. The D.C. Fire Department later released a statement that the crowd estimation attributed to them was false and based on an early estimation of a specific area, Freedom Plaza, not the number of participants in the event.\n\nConservative bloggers, stating estimates reported in the news were liberal media bias, asserted the number was much higher and estimated between 1 and 2 million people had attended the event. PolitiFact, \"The Christian Science Monitor\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", and other news outlets reported that some of these bloggers, such as Michelle Malkin, had originally distributed photos from a 1997 Promise Keepers march that made the 2009 march look more highly attended. Adding difficulty to crowd estimation, a section of the National Mall near the Washington Monument was dedicated to the 24th annual National Black Family Reunion on September 12.\n\nMatt Kibbe, president of FreedomWorks, the organizer of the event, stated on stage that ABC News had reported 1 million to 1.5 million protesters in attendance. ABC News later published an article saying that they were misquoted by Kibbe, and went on to report that 60,000 to 70,000 had attended the event, citing the unofficial D.C. Fire Department number. After comparing photographs of Saturday's protest with previous events, FreedomWorks revised their crowd estimate to be between 600,000 and 800,000. Pete Sepp, a spokesman for the National Taxpayers Union, one of the organizations that sponsored the march, said the group estimated the crowd at 75,000 in the morning and from 200,000 and 300,000 as the day went on.\n\nFarouk El-Baz, a Boston University research professor and expert on crowd estimation, told the \"LA Times\" that his informal research from media coverage indicated 75,000 as the peak attendance. El-Baz noted that, because there seemed to be no aerial photos of the event, reaching any sort of rigorous estimate might be impossible. The Washington Metro reported 87,000 extra riders that day as compared to the average ridership.\n\nAnother march was held on September 12, 2010, in Washington, with, according to FOX News, a \"thousands-strong\" crowd. Two other major tea parties were held in Sacramento, California, which attracted \"thousands\" and St. Louis, Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28251807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28251807", "title": "Tea Party of Nevada", "text": "Tea Party of Nevada\n\nThe Tea Party of Nevada is a minor political party in Nevada. It fielded Scott Ashjian in the United States Senate election in Nevada, 2010.\n\nThe Tea Party of Nevada qualified as a minor political party with the Nevada Secretary of State on January 27, 2010. Ashjian's supporters created the party by filing more than the 250 signatures needed. The Tea Party of Nevada's stated goals include striving to \"promote this nation's founding principles of freedom, liberty and a small representative government.\" The party stated in its preamble that both major political parties were responsible for a \"massive national debt\" in the United States, and that the \"great conservative majority in America\" should not believe that the Democrats and Republicans would support their views.\n\nAshjian filed his candidacy on March 2, 2010, and became the candidate of the Tea Party of Nevada for United States Senate in the 2010 Nevada general election. Ashjian's candidacy is the only one which appears as the \"Tea Party\" on the November 2010 ballot. In April 2010, Ashjian faced a legal challenge which attempted to remove his name from the ballot. Carson City, Nevada district judge James Todd Russell heard arguments on whether Ashjian could remain on the ballot starting on April 14. Judge Russell ultimately ruled that Ashjian complied with the intent of the law and he could remain on the ballot. The American Independent Party, which brought the suit against Ashjian, filed an appeal of the case to the Nevada Supreme Court. On October 6, 2010, the Nevada Supreme Court issued a unanimous ruling that Ashjian's candidacy would remain on the November 2010 ballot.\n\n"}
{"id": "51001412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51001412", "title": "The International Forum on Energy Security for the Future", "text": "The International Forum on Energy Security for the Future\n\nThe International Forum on Energy Security for the Future: New Sources, Responsibility, Sustainability(ESF) is an initiative on energy security focused on popularization of alternative energy sources in Europe and worldwide. Founded by the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, Aleksander Kwaśniewski's Foundation \"Amicus Europae\" and Ukraine's leading private oil & gas producer Burisma Group in 2016. The founders of the Forum are HSH Prince Albert II of Monaco, Nikolay Zlochevskyi and Aleksander Kwaśniewski. The Head of the Organizing Committee of the Forum is Vadym Pozharskyi.\n\nThe Forum offers an exclusive discussion platform to address energy security matters and supports an equal and open dialogue between states, governments, business people, expert community and civil society about the transition to a green economy and renewable energy sources.\n\nFirst held on June 2, 2016, in Monte Carlo, Monaco, the Forum on Energy Security for the Future: New sources, Responsibility, Sustainability promotes non-polluting renewable energy. It calls for close cooperation and coordination among countries, organizations and civil society to address common security challenges and energy concerns.\n\nWith more than 150 guests in attendance, including European politicians, energy experts, journalists and owners of Europe's largest energy companies, the Forum has already gained recognition as the most ambitious European project on energy security issues and promotion of alternative energy sources.\n\n\"This is such a unique occasion, when a Forum managed to bring together different people of different social status to address European energy security. Organized by the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation and Burisma Group, the Forum doesn't only attempt to attract socially responsible businesses and civil society over the idea of energy security, it also offers an exclusive discussion platform that allows participants to share their thoughts and lay foundation for a comprehensive long-term strategy of energy security in Europe\", admitted co-founder of the Forum and the President of Burisma Group Nikolay Zlochevskyi.\n\nThe Forum was opened by HSH Prince Albert II of Monaco. In his speech he focused on the need to develop alternative energy sources and outlined that the topic of the Forum was “essential” for a secure and prosperous future of European states. \n\n“Energy security planning has to be done in a long-term perspective,” the Prince noted. “We should pay more attention to renewable energy sources that would enable getting cheap energy without polluting the environment.”\n\nOrganized by Burisma Group in partnership with the Adam Smith Conferences, and with support from the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation and the Aleksander Kwaśniewski's Foundation Amicus Europae, the Second International Forum on Energy Security for the Future: New vision, Strategy, Innovation took place on June 2, 2017 in Monte Carlo, Monaco. The event addressed Europe’s energy security with focus on Ukraine’s increasing role in the European energy market.\n\n“This event goes in line with our corporate objectives, but most importantly, it reflects values and principles that we, at Burisma Group, stand by: integrity, social responsibility and innovation. We are proud that the Forum is becoming Europe’s largest energy platform. Every year, more and more politicians and public figures join in to aid the cause. With the support from the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, we are hoping that our Forum will bring tangible results for the entire Europe”, admitted the Head of the Organizing Committee and Advisor to the Board of Directors at Burisma Group ..\n\nThe third annual Forum on ENERGY SECURITY FOR THE FUTURE will take place on June 1, 2018 in Monte Carlo, Monaco. The Forum will address revolutionary thinking necessary to strengthen energy security and latest innovative accomplishments in the energy sector.\n\nThe Forum speakers induced such high-European politicians as Aleksander Kwaśniewski (President of Poland 1995-2005), Joschka Fischer (Vice-Chancellor of Germany 1998-2005), Andris Piebalgs (EU Commissioner for Energy, 2004 and 2009), TJ Glautier (US Vice-Secretary of Energy 1999-2001, President of TJG Energy Associates), Hunter Biden (Independent director of Burisma), Ireneusz Bil (Director of Amicus Europae, the Foundation of Aleksander Kwaśniewski), Jean-Arnold Vinois (European Commission representative on Energy Policy issues) and other honored guests.\n\nThe attendees discussed the following topics:\n\nThe first Energy Security Forum also became a platform for presentation of the English version of Mission Ukraine written by the Polish author Maciej Olchawa. The book reflects the vision of the European Community and Ukraine’s place in it and reveals new interesting details of the Cox-Kwasniewski Mission, which played the key role during the Revolution of Dignity in Ukraine. \n\nIn his book Maciej Olchawa talks about European integration, Ukraine’s place in Europe and the world, modern leaders and new political elites formation. The book also suggests a new strategy of the EU international politics from the perspective of Ukrainian events. Aleksander Kwaśniewski presented the book Mission Ukraine, together with the author they held an autograph session and promised to publish a Ukrainian version of the book.\n\nFor the second year in a row, the Forum on Energy Security for the Future: new vision, strategy, innovation brought together over 250 guests including global leaders, politicians, energy experts and journalists. The Forum started with welcoming remarks from His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco, followed by keynote addresses from the President of Slovenia (2007–2012) Danilo Türk and the Prime Minister of Belgium (1999–2008) and the Leader of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Group Guy Verhofstadt.\n\nThe panelists of the keynote session included the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Kistion, the Director of the CIA’s Counterterrorist Center (1999-2002) and Ambassador at Large for Counter-Terrorism (2002-2004) Joseph Cofer Black, the European Commissioner for Energy (2004 and 2009) Andris Piebalgs, and the Director of the Atlantic Council Dina Patriciu Eurasia Center and the US Ambassador to Ukraine (2003-2006) John E. Herbst. They focused on the role of institutions in strengthening European energy security.\n\nThe first session closed with a keynote presentation from the President of Poland (1995-2005) Alexander Kwasniewski. The analytical market debate, moderated by the EU Platts correspondent Siobhan Hall, placed special emphasis on latest trends affecting the European energy market, including energy landscape changes, supply and demand dynamics and competition. The Forum addressed European energy security at a regional level and development of energy-efficient infrastructure.\n\nIn attendance from the Ukrainian side were the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Kistion, the Head of the Committee on Taxation and Customs Policy at the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine Nina Yuzhanina, Deputy Minister for International Integration at the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Nataliya Boyko, as well as representatives of the Embassy of Ukraine in France, the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministries and Departments.\n\n“The processes taking place in the EU automatically affect Ukraine and vice versa. Such events allow Ukrainian and European leaders share their views and define instruments required to obtain energy independence at a country level and in the whole Europe”, noted the President of Burisma Group Nikolay Zlochevsky.\n\nOn June 1, 2018, in Monte Carlo (Principality of Monaco); organized by the largest gas-extracting company of Ukraine Burisma Group, the 3rd International Forum on Energy Security in Europe - Energy Security for the Future was held with the partnership of the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation<ins> </ins>Alexander Kwasniewski Foundation - Amicus Europae and Atlantic Council also became partners of the Forum. The third forum from the European event turned into a global event in the field of energy and environmental security. This year the Forum was attended by about 250 people, representing more than 20 countries<ins>.</ins>\n\nThe event was informally called the \"Forum of Presidents\", which brought together political leaders of European countries, among which are His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco; President of Latvia Raymonds Vejonis, former President of Poland (1995-2005) Alexander Kwasniewski; President of the European Commission and Prime Minister of Italy Romano Prodi; President of the European Council and Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Mirek Topolanek and His Excellency Bernard Fortier, Vice-President of Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation. Discussions of the Forum were attended by Mark Pritchard, the member of the UK Parliament and leader of the delegation to OSCE; U.S. politician and senior senator from the state of Louisiana, Mary Loretta Landrieu; the Latvian politician and the diplomat, the commissioner of the European Union on power and development Andris Piebalgs; Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Director of the Dinu Patriciu Eurasia Center of the Atlantic Council, John Edward Herbst and others<ins>.</ins>\n\nThe vector of revolutionary thinking, changes and the introduction of new technologies became the topic of the Forum 2018 Economic relations, energy, and politics are undergoing one of the most ambitious changes in history<ins>. </ins>The economic activity of the world leaders changes the generally accepted views on doing business, ideology, and model of life activity<ins>.</ins>\n\nEnergy Security for the Future 2018, Monaco\n\nAccording to the founder of the Forum on Energy Security for the Future and the President of Burisma Group - Nikolai Zlochevskyi, For the last three years, the Energy Security for the Future forum has acquired the status of the largest public, political, economic and innovation movement aimed at bringing together all politicians and people around the formation of a single, secure European alliance. “Only consolidation can effectively promote the new innovative formats of clean energy sources in the lives of Europeans. Taking into account interdependence and global challenges, only a strong, energetically independent Europe can guarantee a future for its peoples. Ukraine is already an important strategic link in the overall system of energy security in Europe\", - Nikolai Zlochevskyi said.\n\nSince its creation in 2016, the Forum on Energy Security for the Future has established partnerships with a diverse range of stakeholders and international organizations interested in accelerating renewable energy deployment and introduction of latest technologies. These alliances reflect a commitment to long-term promotion of renewable energy around the world.\n\nTo advance its mission, the Forum is closely working with the Aleksander Kwaśniewski's foundation \"Amicus Europae\" on the development of the European Neighborhood Policy, with a special focus on Ukraine and Belarus and fostering the transatlantic dialogue and future of Europe debates.\n\n\"The topic of this forum is very important, as energy is a key factor not just today -- it will also remain a key factor in the future,\" Kwaśniewski said. \"The modern world is changing faster than ever. I hope that Burisma will continue to support such initiatives\".\n\nIn 2017, the British professional team Adam Smith Conferences became official partners of the Forum, transforming event into a truly global conference. As the 2016 Forum, the 2017 Forum was supported by The Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, Aleksander Kwaśniewski's Foundation Amicus Europae and other high-profile organizations.\n\nThe Forum is also actively working with the Electric Marathon.\n"}
{"id": "702062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=702062", "title": "The Political Graveyard", "text": "The Political Graveyard\n\nThe Political Graveyard is a website and database that catalogues information on more than 277,000 American political figures and political families, along with other information.\n\nThe database attempts to capture very basic biographical and office-holding data for its political figures. Besides where they are buried, it records dates and locations of birth and death, offices held and the applicable dates, organizational affiliations, and cause of death. It also reports their relation (at least by blood and marriage) with other politicians listed, their political party, and limited military history. The names are sorted and indexed by surname, birthplace, positions held, demography, religion, occupation, cause of death, and final resting place, with each entry usually having fewer than five lines of text.\n\nThe name comes from the website's inclusion of the burial locations of the deceased, when known.\n\nThe site was created in 1996 by Lawrence Kestenbaum, then an academic specialist at Michigan State University, and later on staff at the University of Michigan. Kestenbaum was formerly a county commissioner, and in 2004 was elected to be County Clerk/Register of Deeds of Washtenaw County, Michigan. The site and its underlying database were developed from a personal interest triggered by the \"Biographical Directory of the U.S. Congress\", which was its original data source. Since then his personal research, and the information contributions of hundreds of volunteers have greatly expanded the information available. It is licensed under the \"Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 1.0\" Creative Commons License.\n\nOver the years the definition of \"eligible political figure\" has been expanded. It now includes most high federal officials, ambassadors, all elected and some appointed statewide officeholders, and many mayors. It lists unsuccessful candidates, presidential electors, and delegates to U.S. presidential nominating conventions of the major political parties.\n\nPoliticians are listed alphabetically, by office held or sought, and by location of birth, residence, and death. Some are listed in categories, including occupations, ethnicity, religious and organizational affiliation, honors and awards. Politicians accused of crimes or touched by scandal are listed by the nature of the accusation, as well as by decade and by state. Cause of death is broken down into dozens of categories.\n\nThe site also lists political families. Individuals listed on the site are linked together if their relationship meets the Rule of 1/1000 common ancestry. Each cluster of three or more linked politicians is treated as a family, with family name and location assigned by an algorithm; the largest individual family cluster is the Kennedys, with 34 members. The site's largest cluster, with 2,134 members, is called \"Two Thousand Related Politicians\"; most of the larger families are subsets of this group, with each subset defined and named by an algorithm. The largest subset family is the Huntington-Chapin-Waterman family of Connecticut, with 229 members.\n"}
{"id": "36295139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36295139", "title": "The Political Machine 2012", "text": "The Political Machine 2012\n\nThe Political Machine 2012 is a government simulation game from Stardock and the third game in \"The Political Machine\" series, in which the player leads a campaign to elect the President of the United States. The player accomplishes this goal by traveling from state to state and engaging in a variety of activities to either raise money or raise poll numbers.\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "10022644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10022644", "title": "Third Force (France)", "text": "Third Force (France)\n\nThe Third Force (Troisième Force) was a French coalition during the Fourth Republic (1947–1958) which gathered the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO) party, the centre-right Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance (UDSR), the Radicals, the Christian democrat Popular Republican Movement (MRP) and other centrist politicians, opposed both to the French Communist Party (PCF) and the Gaullist movement. The Third Force governed France from 1947 to 1951, succeeding the \"tripartisme\" alliance between the SFIO, the MRP and the PCF. The Third Force was also supported by the conservative National Centre of Independents and Peasants (CNIP), which succeeded in having its most popular figure, Antoine Pinay, named Prime Minister in 1952, a year after the dissolving of the Third Force coalition.\n\nDuring the later decades of the Third Republic, the majority of French voters and deputies belonged to the spectrum of numerous small liberal and republican parties of the centre-left and centre-right. During election-time, this spectrum tended to split in half, its centre-left wing cooperating in electoral lists with the main socialist party (SFIO) and its centre-right wing with the main Catholic party (URD). Periodically, however, the parties of the broad centre attempted to form an alliance amongst themselves to lock out socialists and the religious right from power: the policy of creating a government of 'third force' through the tactic of 'republican concentration'. At that time, given the balance of political support and the divisions among the republicans, such a tactic was rarely successful.\n\nAfter the war and the installation of the Fourth Republic, the appearance of powerful mass political movements on the far-left and far-right, the Communists and Gaullists, provided a renewed incentive for the miscellaneous parties of the centre to combine their forces to lock out the extremes. The Third Force government was organised after the dismissal of vice-premier Maurice Thorez and four others Communist ministers from Paul Ramadier's government during the May 1947 crisis. The May 1947 crisis can be summarized as: \"The Communists' refusal to continue support for the French colonial reconquest of Vietnam on one hand and a wage-freeze during a period of hyperinflation on the other were the immediate triggers to the dismissal of Thorez and his colleagues from the ruling coalition in May 1947\". Nevertheless, the heterogeity of the Third Force increased the ministerial instability. Although it kept its majority after the 1951 legislative election, in part due to the change of voting system, it split over economic policies, \"laïcité\" and the financing of denominational schools. The Socialists left the cabinet and the following governments were formed by centre and centre-right parties: the Radical Party, the UDSR, the MRP and the National Centre of Independents and Peasants (CNIP) \n\nThe idea of reviving a Third Force between the centre-left and the centre-right in France has been raised periodically ever since. The Socialist Gaston Defferre and the Radical Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber advocated such an alliance in the 1960s, culminating in Defferre's disastrous candidacy in the French presidential election, 1969. Presidents Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and then François Mitterrand unsuccessfully tried to revive the Third Force, the latter doing so in a sense by pursuing a policy of \"ouverture\" toward the UDF after the failure of the Socialists and their allies to gain an outright majority in the French legislative election, 1988. However, each time, the most important right-wing party, the Rally for the Republic (RPR), opposed itself to such an alliance. This strategy is now followed by François Bayrou and the Democratic Movement (MoDem), a centrist party.\n"}
{"id": "31468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31468", "title": "Thomas Robert Malthus", "text": "Thomas Robert Malthus\n\nThomas Robert Malthus (; 13 February 1766 – 23 December 1834) was an English cleric and scholar, influential in the fields of political economy and demography. Malthus himself used only his middle name, Robert.\n\nIn his 1798 book \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\", Malthus observed that an increase in a nation's food production improved the well-being of the populace, but the improvement was temporary because it led to population growth, which in turn restored the original per capita production level. In other words, mankind had a propensity to utilize abundance for population growth rather than for maintaining a high standard of living, a view that has become known as the \"Malthusian trap\" or the \"Malthusian spectre\". Populations had a tendency to grow until the lower class suffered hardship and want and greater susceptibility to famine and disease, a view that is sometimes referred to as a Malthusian catastrophe. Malthus wrote in opposition to the popular view in 18th-century Europe that saw society as improving and in principle as perfectible. He saw population growth as being inevitable whenever conditions improved, thereby precluding real progress towards a utopian society: \"The power of population is indefinitely greater than the power in the earth to produce subsistence for man\". As an Anglican cleric, Malthus saw this situation as divinely imposed to teach virtuous behaviour. Malthus wrote:\n\nMalthus criticized the Poor Laws for leading to inflation rather than improving the well-being of the poor. He supported taxes on grain imports (the Corn Laws), because food security was more important than maximizing wealth. His views became influential, and controversial, across economic, political, social and scientific thought. Pioneers of evolutionary biology read him, notably Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. He remains a much-debated writer.\n\nThe seventh child of Henrietta Catherine (Graham) and Daniel Malthus, Robert Malthus grew up in The Rookery, a country house in Westcott, near Dorking in Surrey. Petersen describes Daniel Malthus as \"a gentleman of good family and independent means... [and] a friend of David Hume and Jean-Jacques Rousseau\". The young Malthus received his education at home in Bramcote, Nottinghamshire, and then at the Warrington Academy from 1782. Warrington was a dissenting academy, which closed in 1783; Malthus continued for a period to be tutored by Gilbert Wakefield who had taught him there.\n\nMalthus entered Jesus College, Cambridge in 1784. There he took prizes in English declamation, Latin and Greek, and graduated with honours, Ninth Wrangler in mathematics. His tutor was William Frend. He took the MA degree in 1791, and was elected a Fellow of Jesus College two years later. In 1789, he took orders in the Church of England, and became a curate at Oakwood Chapel (also Okewood) in the parish of Wotton, Surrey.\n\nMalthus came to prominence for his 1798 essay on population growth. In it, he argued that population multiplies geometrically and food arithmetically; therefore, whenever the food supply increases, population will rapidly grow to eliminate the abundance. Between 1798 and 1826 he published six editions of \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\", updating each edition to incorporate new material, to address criticism, and to convey changes in his own perspectives on the subject. He wrote the original text in reaction to the optimism of his father and his father's associates (notably Rousseau) regarding the future improvement of society. Malthus also constructed his case as a specific response to writings of William Godwin (1756–1836) and of the Marquis de Condorcet (1743–1794).\n\nThe \"Essay\" gave rise to the Malthusian controversy during the next decades. The content saw an emphasis on the birth rate and marriage rates. The neo-Malthusian controversy, or related debates of many years later, has seen a similar central role assigned to the numbers of children born.\n\nIn 1799 Malthus made a European tour with William Otter, a close college friend, travelling part of the way with Edward Daniel Clarke and John Marten Cripps, visiting Germany, Scandinavia and Russia. Malthus used the trip to gather population data. Otter later wrote a \"Memoir\" of Malthus for the second (1836) edition of his \"Principles of Political Economy\". During the Peace of Amiens of 1802 he travelled to France and Switzerland, in a party that included his relation and future wife Harriet. In 1803 he became rector of Walesby, Lincolnshire.\n\nIn 1805 Malthus became Professor of History and Political Economy at the East India Company College in Hertfordshire. His students affectionately referred to him as \"Pop\" or \"Population\" Malthus.\n\nAt the end of 1816 the proposed appointment of Graves Champney Haughton to the College was made a pretext by Randle Jackson and Joseph Hume to launch an attempt to close it down. Malthus wrote a pamphlet defending the College, which was reprieved by the East India Company in 1817. In 1818 Malthus became a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nDuring the 1820s there took place a setpiece intellectual discussion within the proponents of political economy, often called the \"Malthus–Ricardo debate\", after the leading figures of Malthus and David Ricardo, a theorist of free trade, both of whom had written books with the title \"Principles of Political Economy\". Under examination were the nature and methods of political economy itself, while it was simultaneously under attack from others. The roots of the debate were in the previous decade. In \"The Nature of Rent\" (1815), Malthus had dealt with economic rent, a major concept in classical economics. Ricardo defined a theory of rent in his \"Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\" (1817): he regarded rent as value in excess of real production—something caused by ownership rather than by free trade. Rent therefore represented a kind of negative money that landlords could pull out of the production of the land, by means of its scarcity. Contrary to this concept, Malthus proposed rent to be a kind of economic surplus.\n\nThe debate developed over the economic concept of a general glut, and the possibility of failure of Say's Law. Malthus laid importance on economic development and the persistence of disequilibrium. The context was the post-war depression; Malthus had a supporter in William Blake, in denying that capital accumulation (saving) was always good in such circumstances, and John Stuart Mill attacked Blake on the fringes of the debate.\n\nRicardo corresponded with Malthus from 1817 and his \"Principles\". He was drawn into considering political economy in a less restricted sense, which might be adapted to legislation and its multiple objectives, by the thought of Malthus. In his own work \"Principles of Political Economy\" (1820), and elsewhere, Malthus addressed the tension, amounting to conflict, he saw between a narrow view of political economy, and the broader moral and political plane. Leslie Stephen wrote:\n\nIf Malthus and Ricardo differed, it was a difference of men who accepted the same first principles. They both professed to interpret Adam Smith as the true prophet, and represented different shades of opinion rather than diverging sects.\n\nAfter Ricardo's death in 1823, Malthus became isolated among the younger British political economists, who tended to think he had lost the debate.It is now considered that the different purposes seen by Malthus and Ricardo for political economy affected their technical discussion, and contributed to the lack of compatible definitions. For example, Jean-Baptiste Say used a definition of production based on goods and services and so queried the restriction of Malthus to \"goods\" alone.\n\nIn terms of public policy, Malthus was a supporter of the protectionist Corn Laws from the end of the Napoleonic Wars. He emerged as the only economist of note to support duties on imported grain. He changed his mind after 1814. By encouraging domestic production, Malthus argued, the Corn Laws would guarantee British self-sufficiency in food.\n\nMalthus was a founding member of the Political Economy Club in 1821; there John Cazenove tended to be his ally, against Ricardo and Mill. He was elected in the beginning of 1824 as one of the ten royal associates of the Royal Society of Literature. He was also one of the first fellows of the Statistical Society, founded in March 1834. In 1827 he gave evidence to a committee of the House of Commons on emigration.\n\nIn 1827, he published \"Definitions in Political Economy, preceded by an inquiry into the rules which ought to guide political economists in the definition and use of their terms; with remarks on the deviation from these rules in their writings.\" The first chapter put forth \"Rules for the Definition and Application of Terms in Political Economy\". In chapter 10, the penultimate chapter, he presented 60 numbered paragraphs putting forth terms and their definitions that he proposed, following those rules, should be used in discussing political economy. This collection of terms and definitions is remarkable for two reasons: first, Malthus was the first economist to explicitly organize, define, and publish his terms as a coherent glossary of defined terms; and second, his definitions were, for the most part, well-formed definitional statements.\nBetween these chapters, he criticized several contemporary economists—Jean-Baptiste Say, David Ricardo, James Mill, John Ramsay McCulloch, and Samuel Bailey—for sloppiness in choosing, attaching meaning to, and using their technical terms.\n\nMcCulloch was the editor of \"The Scotsman\" of Edinburgh; he replied cuttingly in a review printed on the front page of his newspaper in March, 1827. He implied that Malthus wanted to dictate terms and theories to other economists. McCulloch clearly felt his ox gored, and his review of \"Definitions\" is largely a bitter defence of his own \"Principles of Political Economy\", and his counter-attack \"does little credit to his reputation\", being largely \"personal derogation\" of Malthus. The purpose of Malthus's \"Definitions\" was terminological clarity, and Malthus discussed appropriate terms, their definitions, and their use by himself and his contemporaries. This motivation of Malthus's work was disregarded by McCulloch, who responded that there was nothing to be gained \"by carping at definitions, and quibbling about the meaning to be attached to\" words. Given that statement, it is not surprising that McCulloch's review failed to address the rules of chapter 1 and did not discuss the definitions of chapter 10; he also barely mentioned Malthus's critiques of other writers.\n\nIn spite of this, in the wake of McCulloch's scathing review, the reputation of Malthus as economist dropped away, for the rest of his life. On the other hand, Malthus did have supporters: Thomas Chalmers, some of the Oriel Noetics, Richard Jones and William Whewell from Cambridge.\n\nMalthus died suddenly of heart disease on 23 December 1834, at his father-in-law's house. He was buried in Bath Abbey. His portrait, and descriptions by contemporaries, present him as tall and good-looking, but with a cleft lip and palate. The cleft palate affected his speech: such birth defects had occurred before amongst his relatives.\n\nOn 13 March 1804, Malthus married Harriet, daughter of John Eckersall of Claverton House, near Bath. They had a son and two daughters. His firstborn, son Henry, became vicar of Effingham, Surrey, in 1835, and of Donnington, Sussex, in 1837; he married Sofia Otter (1807–1889), daughter of Bishop William Otter, and died in August 1882, aged 76. His middle child, Emily, died in 1885, outliving her parents and siblings. The youngest, Lucille, died unmarried and childless in 1825, months before her 18th birthday.\n\nMalthus argued in his \"Essay\" (1798) that population growth generally expanded in times and in regions of plenty until the size of the population relative to the primary resources caused distress:\nMalthus argued that two types of checks hold population within resource limits: \"positive\" checks, which raise the death rate; and \"preventive\" ones, which lower the birth rate. The positive checks include hunger, disease and war; the preventive checks: birth control, postponement of marriage and celibacy.\n\nThe rapid increase in the global population of the past century exemplifies Malthus's predicted population patterns; it also appears to describe socio-demographic dynamics of complex pre-industrial societies. These findings are the basis for neo-malthusian modern mathematical models of \"long-term historical dynamics\".\n\nMalthus wrote that in a period of resource abundance, a population could double in 25 years. However, the margin of abundance could not be sustained as population grew, leading to checks on population growth:\nIn later editions of his essay, Malthus clarified his view that if society relied on human misery to limit population growth, then sources of misery (\"e.g.\", hunger, disease, and war) would inevitably afflict society, as would volatile economic cycles. On the other hand, \"preventive checks\" to population that limited birthrates, such as later marriages, could ensure a higher standard of living for all, while also increasing economic stability. Regarding possibilities for freeing man from these limits, Malthus argued against a variety of imaginable solutions, such as the notion that agricultural improvements could expand without limit.\n\nOf the relationship between population and economics, Malthus wrote that when the population of laborers grows faster than the production of food, real wages fall because the growing population causes the cost of living (\"i.e.\", the cost of food) to go up. Difficulties of raising a family eventually reduce the rate of population growth, until the falling population again leads to higher real wages.\n\nIn the second and subsequent editions Malthus put more emphasis on \"moral restraint\" as the best means of easing the poverty of the lower classes.\"\n\n\nIn this work, his first published pamphlet, Malthus argues against the notion prevailing in his locale that the greed of intermediaries caused the high price of provisions. Instead, Malthus says that the high price stems from the Poor Laws, which \"increase the parish allowances in proportion to the price of corn.\" Thus, given a limited supply, the Poor Laws force up the price of daily necessities. But he concludes by saying that in time of scarcity such Poor Laws, by raising the price of corn more evenly, actually produce a \"beneficial\" effect.\n\nAlthough government in Britain had regulated the prices of grain, the Corn Laws originated in 1815. At the end of the Napoleonic Wars that year, Parliament passed legislation banning the importation of foreign corn into Britain until domestic corn cost 80 shillings per quarter. The high price caused the cost of food to increase and caused distress among the working classes in the towns. It led to serious rioting in London and to the Peterloo Massacre in Manchester in 1819.\n\nIn this pamphlet, printed during the parliamentary discussion, Malthus tentatively supported the free-traders. He argued that given the increasing cost of growing British corn, advantages accrued from supplementing it from cheaper foreign sources.\n\nIn 1820 Malthus published Principles of Political Economy.\n1836: Second edition, posthumously published. Malthus intended this work to rival Ricardo's \"Principles\" (1817). It, and his 1827 \"Definitions in political economy\", defended Sismondi's views on \"general glut\" rather than Say's Law, which in effect states \"there can be no general glut\".\n\n\nMalthus developed the theory of demand-supply mismatches that he called gluts. Discounted at the time, this theory foreshadowed later works of an admirer, John Maynard Keynes.\n\nThe vast bulk of continuing commentary on Malthus, however, extends and expands on the \"Malthusian controversy\" of the early 19th century.\n\n\nThe epitaph of Malthus in Bath Abbey reads [with commas inserted for clarity]:\nSacred to the memory of the Rev THOMAS ROBERT MALTHUS, long known to the lettered world by his admirable writings on the social branches of political economy, particularly by his essay on population.\nOne of the best men and truest philosophers of any age or country, raised by native dignity of mind above the misrepresentation of the ignorant and the neglect of the great, he lived a serene and happy life devoted to the pursuit and communication of truth, supported by a calm but firm conviction of the usefulness of his labours, content with the approbation of the wise and good. \nHis writings will be a lasting monument of the extent and correctness of his understanding. \nThe spotless integrity of his principles, the equity and candour of his nature, his sweetness of temper, urbanity of manners and tenderness of heart, his benevolence and his piety are still dearer recollections of his family and friends.\nBorn February 14, 1766 - Died 29 December 1834.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42466655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42466655", "title": "Voices of Transition", "text": "Voices of Transition\n\nVoices of Transition (Cultures en Transition in French) is a 2012 documentary film by film director and producer Nils Aguilar. The film was produced in France and Germany and examines the danger posed to agricultural production by energy and resource scarcity. It depicts organic agricultural alternatives in France, the Transition Towns movement and urbanised food production in Cuba as forerunners of the transformation of food production away from industrialised agriculture and towards small-scale, decentralised production methods. The German cinema debut was held on 2 May 2013 as part of a wider German cinema tour, followed or preceded by theatrical releases and tours in Italy, USA, Portugal Wallonia and Flanders (Belgium), Great Britain, Argentina and Chile.\n\nUsing interviews and overlays of graphics and text, the film presents the current problems facing industrial agriculture. It explores why in the interviewees' view the current industrial model is not up to the task of feeding the world's people. According to the film every calorie of energy contained in a food source currently takes between 10 and 20 calories of crude oil in the production of fertilizers and transportation to produce, leading to a strong dependence of the cost of food on oil prices. As a result of peak oil and increasing oil prices this dependence will lead to ever increasing food prices. According to the film, this dependence already represents a significant weak-spot in the global food supply chain. Additionally, agriculture is already responsible for 40% of greenhouse gas emissions, contributing to climate change. Furthermore, the film argues that the overuse of inorganic fertilizers has been responsible for the loss of soil fertility and threatens the complete loss of usable soil within the next decades through soil erosion and sinking crop yields. These effects, according to the film, can only be partly mitigated by the increased use of those same fertilizers. The loss of workplaces, the concentration of land in the hands of a few (allegedly a farm closes every 23 minutes in France) as well as the dependence on large corporations are enumerated as side effects of the industrialisation of agriculture since the 1920s. Companies, such as Monsanto and Bayer, control everything from seed stock to fertilizers and the necessary chemical mixes for hybrid plants, thereby controlling the entire supply chain. The film argues that this development was supported through subsidies from the World Bank. Interviews with Vandana Shiva, the founder of the Transition Towns movement Rob Hopkins and various agricultural experts serve to argue this viewpoint. The dependence on crude oil is illustrated through the example of the wholesale food market in Rungis.\nTo illustrate alternative scenarios the documentary visits places in England and France to conduct various interviews. Agroforestry expert Martin Crawford gives a tour of his forest garden, explaining how the assortment of different plants on various levels results in a symbiotic relationship between them whereby they supply each other with nutrients. He explains the high productivity rate and efficiencies realised through the use of these Permaculture principles. A further application is shown on farmlands, where rows of trees are planted with cereal crops in between. As a result, the later can still be harvested using large-scale machinery, while the trees provide a better microclimate by providing living space for animals, much higher rates of biodiversity and a replenishing of the soil as a result of the regular loss of root structures. According to the interviewees in the film the trees themselves could provide a counterbalance to the deficit of wood in European countries, act as carbon sinks and contribute to the value of the land. As experts on these matters the film presents Christian Dupraz from the French Institut national de la Recherche Agronomique as well as French soil scientist Claude Bourguignon.\nThe second part of the film depicts the British Transition Towns initiative, whose local actors claim to promote a more liveable future by building resilient structures in anticipation of the threats of peak oil, climate change and economic crises. The film shows Permaculture gardener Mike Feingold as he works in his allotment and whilst making apple juice from apples he has harvested himself. Further, the film highlights barter markets, local currencies such as the Totnes Pound and events where plants are planted with the goal of making 'edible cities'. Sally Jenkins, as representative for the project Grofun (Growing Real Organic Food in Urban Neighbourhoods) shows how she plants food in her front yard to inspire her neighbours to do the same. Co-founder of the initiative Rob Hopkins, who stresses the importance of building a vision that will be able to carry people through the decades to come, further explains the whole movement. According to him this will act both as the means to jointly prepare for looming crises while simultaneously re-learning to enjoy life.\nThe final third of the film turns to Cuba, whose agriculture was cut off from the use of crude oil and global food markets at the beginning of the 1990s due to the fall of the Soviet Union. As a result, community gardens and urban agriculture developed, in which organically grown food is produced. The film claims that the Cuban capital Havana is able to source 70% of its fresh vegetable needs directly within the city or its immediate surroundings, with a yield of up to 20 kg per square meter. Fernando Funes-Monzote, co-founder of the Grupo de Agricultura Organica (winners of the 1999 Right Livelihood Award) appears as the main interviewee. He claims that Cuba must be the only country which is close to developing a sustainable food supply, a claim which is supported by a WWF study according to which Cuba is the only country to fulfil the minimal criteria for sustainable development. Governmental support of urban agriculture has led to a higher degree of food sovereignty and a degree of independence from the world market and oil prices. Because of this, Cuba's forced development could serve as an example for other countries whose resource shortages are yet to come.\n\nDirector Nils Aguilar explained in an interview that he was \"deeply moved\" by the experience of large agricultural companies using thugs to silence indigenous groups protesting against their displacement in Argentina. Examining concepts such as permaculture since 2003 and the themes of the book \"Le Sol, la Terre et les Champs\" by French soil scientist Claude Bourguignon further inspired him to make the film, which aims to \"…inspire action by showing positive solutions.\"\n\nThe stated aim of the project is to give the Transition Towns Movement an educational tool with which to promote organic agriculture. Aguilar, born 1980 in Tübingen, started the project with a Co-Director who left the film early on as he \"…didn't really believe in it.\" As a result, Aguilar decided to master the project as a \"non-specialist autodidact\", which took around four years.\n\nThe film depended in large part on voluntary help, as a result of the fact that the Director himself produced the low-budget film. The film was supported by the European Union Programme Youth in Action and the French Ministry of Youth's Envie d'agir Programme. Two successful crowdfunding campaigns also contributed to the making of the documentary. The film is being independently distributed in Germany.\n\nA very first prescreening of the yet unfinalised film was organised during the Transition Towns movement conference in Hannover in November 2010.\n\nThe \"Festival Alimenterre 2013\" screened the film 192 times in African and French speaking countries, eventually reaching 12.520 auditors .\n\nThe Cinema Politica Festival screened the film in six Canadian universities. \n\nThe film has been broadcast in the UK, in Hungary, Romania, Slovenia and Croatia.\n\n\nThe film was awarded the \"Prize of the Public\" at the Univerciné Festival Nantes 2017, a \"Main prize\" in the category \"Ecological Success Stories\" at the Ekotopfilm-Festival and the \"Rector's award\" at the Festival Agrofilm 2015., amongst others.\n\nThe film was chosen as one of the ten most popular films by the Transition Towns initiative.\n\nSeveral local Transition initiatives were started following a screening.\n\nProfessor Uwe Schneidewind, Director of the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy \"a Masterpiece! Fascinating both in content as well as in form.\"\n\nProfessor Niko Paech, Chairman of the German Association for Ecological Economy (Vereinigung für Ökologische Ökonomie) wrote: \"I’m more excited about this film than any of the others looking at these topics. I’ve already seen it five times – more than Blade Runner and High Noon!\"\n\nThe Indian Physicist and recipient of the Right Livelihood Award, Vandana Shiva, is cited as saying that \"This precious film is about shaping the future here and now. With our tiny steps and collective solidarity, we will make sure the Tree of Life flourishes and grows!\"in an interview with the filmmaker.\n\nBill McKibben, American Journalist and climate activist commented, \"as this film shows, we can transition to a new world – there's a way, provided we summon the will!\" [57]\n\nThe British co-founder of the Transition Towns Rob Hopkins has said of the film that it \"...educates, opens minds to new possibilities and presents a new vision of how our food system could be. As a historic transition unfolds, this film is a very powerful tool.\"\n\nDavid Bollier, author and co-founder of the Commons Strategies Group, headlines a blog entry: \"inspiring new film on the agriculture that we need\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18128157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18128157", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1999", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1999\n\nThe Water Resources Development Act of 1999 (WRDA 1999), , was enacted by Congress of the United States on August 17, 1999. Most of the provisions of WRDA 1999 are administered by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nAuthorizes projects and studies for small projects for navigation, flood control, environmental restoration, recreation, hurricane and storm damage reduction, bank stabilization, ecosystem restoration, shore protection, aquifer storage and recovery, and navigation mitigation in Alaska, Arizona, California, Delaware, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, Florida, Guam, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, and Oregon, Virginia, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia, and Washington. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1936 (FCA 1936) to authorize use of funds contributed by States and other political subdivisions for environmental restoration (currently, only flood control) work. \n\nAmends the FCA 1948 to allow the construction of both small structural and nonstructural projects, and to increase from $5 million to $7 million the maximum amount to be expended for any single project\n\nAmends the FCA 1960:\n\nAmends the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1958 (RHA 1958):\n\nAmends the RHA 1968 to authorize additional shore damage mitigation activities for the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. \n\nAmends the WRDA 1976 to reduce from 50 to 35 the percent of total cost to be borne by States for placing dredged sand on State beaches. Directs the Secretary to work with Ohio and other Great Lakes States to fully implement and maximize beneficial reuse of dredged materials along Great Lakes shores. Authorizes the Secretary to design and construct certain shore protection projects, and to stabilize beach erosion, at specified Texas shorelines. \n\nAmends the WRDA 1986:\n\nAmends the WRDA 1990:\n\nAmends the WRDA 1992:\n\nAmends the WRDA 1996:\n\nAuthorizes projects to reduce flood hazards and restore the natural functions and values of rivers throughout the United States. Requires non-Federal interests to pay 35 percent of the cost of any environmental restoration or nonstructural flood control project carried out. Outlines project selection criteria, policies, and procedures. Requires a report to specified congressional committees. Provides a cost limitation of $30 million on any single project. Authorizes appropriations. \n\nDirects a report to Congress on the state of U.S. shorelines; and establishment of a national coastal databank for data on the geophysical and climatological characteristics of such shorelines. \n\nAuthorizes during FY 1999 through 2002 withholding of a specified amount of recreation user fees for repair and maintenance projects, interpretation, signage, habitat or facility enhancement, resource preservation, annual operation and maintenance, and law enforcement related to public use at recreation sites. \n\nDirects inventory and review all Corps activities that are not inherently governmental in nature in accordance with the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998. \n\nModifies or reauthorizes projects for flood control, navigation, habitat restoration, water supply, shoreline protection, shore protection and harbor mitigation, beach erosion control, storm damage reduction and shoreline erosion protection, recreation, pedestrian access features, hurricane protection, levees, environmental infrastructure, mitigation of fish and wildlife losses, watersheds, canal system restoration, environmental restoration, and rediversion in Alabama and Mississippi, Alaska, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas, California, Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, the District of Columbia, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Kansas, Iowa and Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and West Virginia and Pennsylvania. \n\nDeauthorizes navigation projects in Connecticut, Maine, and Massachusetts. \n\nModifies specific projects by name in Maine, California, Kentucky, Alabama, Nevada, Louisiana, Michigan, Arkansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. \n\nDirects study and recommendations to specified congressional committees on non-Federal cost-sharing requirements for the construction, operation, and maintenance of deep draft harbor projects. \n\nDirects studies with respect to specified projects in Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois and Wisconsin, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Michigan and Ohio, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, New York and Vermont, North Carolina, Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, West Virginia, the Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, the Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers, and the Susquehanna River Basin and the upper Chesapeake Bay. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to complete remaining portions of Natural Resources Conservation Service flood control projects at Llagas Creek, California, and Thornton Reservoir, Illinois. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1928 to increase the annual salary of members of the Mississippi River Commission. \n\nAmends the WRDA 1992 to authorize appropriations for construction assistance for specified projects in California, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah, and Virginia. \n\nDirects review of sediment dredging technologies and to select the technology that will increase the effectiveness of removing contaminated sediments and significantly reduce contamination of the water column. \n\nAuthorizes safety assistance at specified dams in California, Indiana, and Pennsylvania. \n\nAmends the WRDA 1986:\n\nAmends WRDA 1996 to add specified areas in Florida, Louisiana, and Washington under a program for the maintenance of navigation channels.\n\nAmends WRDA 1992 to increase the annual authorization of appropriations for a monitoring program for the Atlantic coast of New York. \n\nAmends WRDA 1996:\n\nAmends the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1976 to extend until January 1, 2003, the authority of the EPA Administrator to designate sites for the dumping of nontoxic or nonhazardous wastes. \n\nAmends the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 1994 to revise conveyance conditions and required compensation with respect to the San Jacinto Disposal Area in Galveston, Texas. \n\nAmends the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to direct the planning, design, and construction of the Phoenix metropolitan water reclamation and reuse project to utilize fully wastewater from the regional wastewater treatment plant for specified uses in the Phoenix metropolitan area. \n\nAuthorizes, in evaluating water control management, to consider a regionalized water control management plan, but prohibits the implementation of such plan until a report is submitted to specified congressional committees. \n\nAuthorizes specified projects for the beneficial use of dredged material. \n\nDirects a plan for a project to protect and enhance fish and wildlife habitat of the Missouri River and middle Mississippi River. \n\nAuthorizes technical planning and design assistance to non-Federal interests and conduct other site-specific studies to formulate and evaluate fish screens, fish passage devices, and other measures to decrease the incidence of juvenile and adult fish inadvertently entering irrigation systems. \n\nDirects completion of required reports in connection with projects in Connecticut, Florida, Indiana, Louisiana, and the Upper Mississippi River. \n\nDirects the Army, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies to assist Oregon in developing and implementing a comprehensive basin-wide strategy in the Willamette River basin. \n\nDirects specific actions or studies:\n\nAuthorizes the development of a management strategy to address problems associated with toxic microorganisms and the resulting degradation of ecosystems in tidal and nontidal wetlands and waters of the United States. \n\nAuthorizes technical, planning, and design assistance to Federal and non-Federal interests for carrying out projects to address water quality problems caused by drainage and related activities from abandoned and inactive noncoal mines. Authorizes the maintenance of a technology database for the reclamation of abandoned mines. \n\nDirects real estate transactions in Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Washington, and West Virginia. Transfers administrative jurisdiction over the McNary National Wildlife Refuge from the Army to the Department of the Interior. \n\nDesignates politically gratuitous names for specified waterways and facilities in Arkansas and Rhode Island. \n\nDirects removal of the Embry Dam on the Rappahannock River, Virginia, at full Federal expense. \n\nDirects the environmental restoration and remediation of the Avtex Fibers facility in Front Royal, Virginia, at full Federal expense. Directs the Department of Defense to make specified funds available for such purpose. \n\nDirects the State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds under this title, to each develop a plan for the restoration of terrestrial wildlife habitat loss that occurred as a result of flooding related to the Big Bend and Oahe projects carried out as part of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program. Requires each such plan to be submitted to the Secretary for review and submission to the appropriate congressional committees. Directs the Secretary to make funds available to carry out such plans. Outlines transitional provisions and authorized fund uses. \n\nEstablishes the South Dakota Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Restoration Trust Fund, the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund. \n\nDirects transfer to the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish, and Parks specified Federal lands for fish and wildlife or public recreation purposes. Directs the Secretary to transfer specified Corps lands and recreation areas for the use of the Cheyenne River and Lower Brule Sioux Tribes. \n\nDirects the Secretary to arrange for the U.S. Geological Survey to complete by October 31, 1999, a comprehensive study of the potential impacts of the transfer of lands under this title on water flows in the Missouri River. Prohibits such transfers until the Secretary determines that the transfers will not significantly reduce the amount of water flow to the downstream States of the Missouri River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47875337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47875337", "title": "William Ferguson Reid", "text": "William Ferguson Reid\n\nWilliam Ferguson \"Fergie\" Reid (born March 18, 1925) is a Virginia physician, politician and civil rights activist. In 1968, Reid became the first African-American elected to the Virginia Assembly since the days of Reconstruction. He won re-election twice to the Virginia House of Delegates, representing Richmond and part of surrounding Henrico County.\n\nThe 90 for 90 campaign organized by Chesterfield County, Virginia Democrats in 2015 to encourage broader voter participation, especially in gerrymandered precincts, was organized in honor of Reid's 90th birthday.\n\nFergie Reid was born in Richmond on March 18, 1925, the son of dentist Leon Reid and his wife. He grew up in a house next to that of prominent banker and activist Maggie L. Walker at 110 Leigh Street in Richmond's Jackson Ward. Both houses shared the same street number, and one day \"a courtly man with a Van Dyke beard\" appeared at the Reid family's door, mistaking it for the Walker residence. The stranger proved to be scholar and civil rights activist W. E. B. Du Bois. Reid was 9 years old when Maggie L. Walker died in 1934, but long remembered her vividly, \"She was widowed and living with her children and grandchildren . . . . Naturally we were together every day in our house or their house; so we were very close.\" He could name Walker's grandchildren-- \"Maggie, Laura, Armistead, Mamie Evelyn and Elizabeth\"—and that Elizabeth was his age.\n\nIn 1941 Reid graduated from Armstrong High School, and in 1946 he received his bachelor's degree from Virginia Union University. He earned his medical degree from Howard University, and served his internship and residency as a surgeon in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nAfter the civil rights events described below, Reid and his wife eventually moved to Chevy Chase, Maryland. Both their daughters and son (William Ferguson Reid, Jr.) became physicians, with the daughters practicing in Maryland and New Jersey and their son in Hollywood, California. Reid was active in his Episcopal Church and the Salvation Army, as well as with Omega Psi Phi and became a 32nd degree Mason.\n\nDr. Reid served as a lieutenant in the United States Navy during the Korean War, with the 1st Marine Division, and later at the Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. Returning to Richmond, he became active in civic and professional affairs. He served on the staff of Richmond Memorial Hospital, Richmond Community Hospital, Retreat for the Sick, Medical College of Virginia and St. Mary's Hospital. His professional associations included the American College of Surgeons, Richmond Academy of Medicine, Richmond Medical Society, Medical Society of Virginia, Old Dominion Medical Society, American Medical Association and the National Medical Association. He became a diplomate of the American Board of Surgery in 1955.\n\nReid co-founded the Richmond Crusade for Voters in 1956. He hoped to register and mobilize black voters during Massive Resistance. He was a de facto member of the Civil Rights Movement. Senator Harry F. Byrd Sr. and his Democratic political machine in Virginia largely controlled statewide politics. According to Michael Paul Williams of the Richmond Times-Dispatch: \"This was an era of poll taxes, literacy tests and other mechanisms to weaken black political clout. The entrenched Byrd political machine stood in defiance of change.\"\n\nReid, John Mitchell Brooks and Dr. William S. Thornton began meeting daily at the old Slaughter's Hotel, a popular segregation-era gathering place for black Richmonders in Jackson Ward. The outgrowth of these strategy sessions was the Crusade.\n\nAfrican Americans gained national support with the Civil Rights Movement through the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. An important outcome was Federal oversight and enforcement of voting rights. Under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, decisions affecting elections became subject to clearance by the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nThe Crusade had been formed in 1955 to register more voters to combat the racist politics driven by the era of \"massive resistance,\" part of a Southern strategy to thwart the U.S. Supreme Court's rulings that public schools be desegregated. \"No civic organization did more to democratize local politics in 20th-century Richmond than the Crusade,\" opined University of Richmond history professor Dr. Julian Maxwell Hayter in his book, \"The Dream Is Lost: Voting Rights and the Politics of Race in Richmond, Virginia.\" Reid co-founded the Richmond Crusade for Voters with Dr. William Thornton, John M. Brooks, Ethel T. Overby and Lola Hamilton.\n\nDespite the Crusade for Voters' continuing growth in influence, Reid's first two candidacies for public office failed. In 1965, he was 7th among the eight candidates seeking the five seats in the Virginia House of Delegates representing Richmond (part-time positions). However, the Byrd Organization was crumbling. In early 1966, Virginia's Harry F. Byrd died of a brain tumor, and two of his prominent lieutenants, conservative Democrats, Rep. Howard W. Smith of Virginia's 8th congressional district and U. S. Senator A. Willis Robertson, lost in the Democratic primary. In the summer of 1969, the Democratic Party engaged in a bitterly fought gubernatorial primary and \"an exhausting run-off election which left the old organization fragmented and set the stage for \"the election of Linwood Holton\", a Republican who had lost his first gubernatorial run in 1965.\n\nThe first African American to be elected to the Virginia General Assembly since 1891, Reid took his seat in the lower chamber the following January, alongside Eleanor P. Sheppard, who had opposed school closings and became Richmond's first female mayor. Others winning the nine seats in the House of Delegates from Richmond City and Henrico County-Richmond were veterans George E. Allen, Jr., Junie L. Bradshaw, Thomas P. Bryan, Ernst W. Farley, Jr., Edward E. Lane, E. B. Pendleton, Jr.. Reid replaced prominent segregationist T. Coleman Andrews, Jr., a prominent segregationist who would found the American Independent Party in 1969 to support the presidential candidacy of George C. Wallace of Alabama. However, in 1968, Virginians voted in record numbers for the second successive time in a presidential election since adoption of the 24th Amendment removed the poll tax as a bar to participation in Federal elections. Reid would serve three terms in the Virginia General Assembly, winning re-election in 1969 (when Carl E. Bain and B. Earl Dunn replaced Thomas P. Bryan and E.B. Pendleton). In 1971, after the 1970 census led to legislative reapportionment, Robert B. Ball Sr., Edwin H. Ragsdale and T. Dix Sutton were elected from Henrico County, Reid from the district of Henrico and Richmond City, and Allen, Bain, Lane, Sheppard and newcomer Philip B. Morris represented Richmond City. Although Reid was the only African American in the General Assembly when he took office in 1968, in 2000 there were fifteen.\n\nIn 1973, Reid was defeated by colorful Richmond city councilman Howard Carwile, also African-American, who vowed to \"raise hell\", but was defeated for re-election in 1975 by prominent lawyer Gerald L. Baliles.\n\nAfter his final term as delegate ended, Dr. Reid then accepted a position as regional medical officer with the U.S. State Department, which caused him to maintain a home in Washington, D.C.'s Maryland suburbs, as well as travel abroad. His activism then continued from a distance, as the Crusade for Voters helped win an African American majority on Richmond's City Council and elected Henry L. Marsh the city's first African American mayor in 1977. Reid has also recorded an oral history for Virginia Commonwealth University, available online.\n\nThe Henrico County School Board in 2012 named a school in honor of Dr. William Ferguson Reid.\n\nIn honor of Reid's 90th birthday, in 2015 in Chesterfield County, Virginia, the 90 for 90 voter registration goal based on door-to-door volunteer canvassing began. The 90 for 90 voter outreach program spread throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia and beyond.\n\nIn 2015, Denise Oliver Valdez wrote for \"Daily Kos\" that \"While much of the media is focusing on presidential hopefuls for 2016, the state of Virginia has key elections coming up this year—elections for the Virginia House of Delegates... A unique effort is underway in Virginia to get voters registered and out to vote, not just this year, but in the election years to come. The impetus and inspiration behind this drive is a civil rights icon in Virginia, Dr. William Ferguson Reid, known to many as 'Fergie,' who was the first black man to win a seat in the Virginia General Assembly since Reconstruction.\"\n\n"}
