{"id": "24616330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24616330", "title": "2009 NK Široki Brijeg–FK Sarajevo football riots", "text": "2009 NK Široki Brijeg–FK Sarajevo football riots\n\nThe NK Široki Brijeg- FK Sarajevo football riot refers to the riot involving the football clubs NK Široki Brijeg (supported mostly by Herzegovian Croat fans) and FK Sarajevo (supported mostly by Bosniak fans) during a leg of the 2009 Bosnian-Herzegovian Premier League in the Herzegovian town of Široki Brijeg. During the riot members of Horde Zla (\"Legions of Evil\", a FK Sarajevo supporters group) and Škripari (a NK Široki Brijeg supporters group) confronted each other in alterations which subsequently spilled out to the majority of the town. Horde Zla burned cars and demolished shops while Škripari and residents of Široki Brijeg stoned Horde Zla buses and shot at supporters. Horde Zla also claim multiple counts of severe police brutality which led to the death of Horde Zla member Vedran Puljić from gunshot wounds. \nThere are conflicting reports about who started the violence. Horde Zla accused local residents and police for their mistreatment on their way to the match, saying that the incident was planned by local politicians and that their buses were separated and parked too far from the stadium which left them open to stoning and attacks. They also claim that initially there were only 30 local policemen present, and they did nothing to prevent the violence. Local police and residents said Horde Zla fans were the first to attack. According to local police officials, most of the regional police had earlier been sent to the nearby city of Mostar to prevent possible violence during the match between the rival Zrinjski and Velež clubs scheduled for the same day thus leaving the match in Široki Brijeg relatively ill secured.\n\nSome 500 fans of the Sarajevo football club were present during the match in Široki Brijeg as well as between 150 and 200 members of the Red Army (supporters of FK Velež closely aligned with Horde Zla). According to Croatian media, members of Horde Zla have a history of starting riots in nearby Posušje\nand that Horde Zla were involved in similar riots before. In September 1990 they had a conflict in Belgrade and they stabbed 2 members of Grobari (supporters of FK Partizan). While Škripari have been accused by Bosnian media of harboring far-right Ustaše sympathies including displaying the Nazi swastika in their stands on multiple occasions.\n\n31 people were injured in the riots, 6 of them severely. One member of Horde, named Vedran Puljić (a Sarajevo Croat), was shot and subsequently died. According to Zlatko Galić, the chief of West Herzegovina Canton police, Vedran Puljić had a record for multiple violations related to hooliganism. Police arrested Oliver Knezović as a suspect of shooting Vedran Puljić. Knezović is believed to be a former member of Kažnjenička Bojna unit of HVO. He reportedly fired at the FK Sarajevo supporters using a Kalashnikov automatic rifle. Knezović escaped from prison only hours after he was apprehended. Eight Široki Brijeg policemen were detained for allowing the escape of Oliver Knezović.\n\nOliver Knezović fled to Zagreb, Croatia, where he would not be extradited to the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as there is no agreement on this issue between the two countries. He gave an interview for a local TV network, asserting his innocence. After the interview Knezović surrendered to a Zagreb police station with his lawyer. An autopsy revealed that Puljić was killed by a bullet from a police pistol. Knezović reportedly had been shooting from an AK 47. \nCiting unnamed police sources, some media reported that Knezović took the pistol from an officer before shooting Puljić. Knezović said that he had taken the pistol but returned it to the policeman before the shooting. He later came to the police station, but escaped after claiming that the police were looking to arrest him for not only shooting at members of Horde Zla (which he does not dispute he did) but also for the murder of Vedran Puljić (which he claims was committed by someone else. The policeman Dragan Vujović was also taken into custody in relation to the murder of Puljić. Citing unnamed police sources, some media reports claimed Vujović is being investigated as an accomplice to murder. Other media reports said that Vujović's hands tested positive for gunpowder residue, which he purportedly claimed was due to his coming into contact with the large quantities of fireworks used that day. Some reports say that the policeman has failed a polygraph test in relation to the event.\n\nSome members of Horde zla were arrested and put in custody. But after Horde Zla spokespeople claimed they had reports that those members were being mistreated in prison the Federal Minister Of Justice Mirsad Kebo had them transferred to Sarajevo and released. This move was met with disapproval by citizens of Široki Brijeg.\n\nDuring the following days many citizens had gathered in front of the West Herzegovina county headquarters. They blamed the violence on Horde Zla. Miro Kraljević, the mayor, addressed the audience giving them his support. The official representative of Škripari read a list of requests to the authorities of West Herzegovina county.\n\nThe protesters left after a speech by Stanko Škorba, the president of the Union of handicapped people from the Homeland war. Škorba told them that the ministry of internal affairs has accepted to look into their requests. Although, he said, that does not mean that the Ministry necessarily sees these complaints as valid.\n\nThe council of Široki Brijeg also held an extraordinary meeting. The counselors made a declaration denouncing the violence that occurred.\n\nThe protests were repeated the same week. There were between 13,000 and 15,000 protesters. Besides citizens of Široki Brijeg the fans of Croat dominated clubs from Mostar, Tomislavgrad, Livno, Žepče, Kiseljak, Posavina and a number of people from Croatia attended. Representatives of Škripari demanded the resignation of Mirsad Kebo and Zvonimir Jukić.\n\nIn Sarajevo, members of Horde Zla also organized citywide demonstrations. They were joined by fans of Velež, Željezničar, Čelik, Rudar (Kakanj), Travnik, Sloboda and many other, mainly Bosniak, clubs as well as over 10,000 citizens.\n\nThey alleged that the causes for violence started even before they entered the town of Široki Brijeg in the form of provocations by local residents shouting ethnic slurs at them and gross negligence by the Široki Brijeg police which split them up into small unprotected groups and completely ignored any misconduct on the side of the Škripari up to and including doing nothing to stop the Škripari from hurling rocks at them. The supporters of many other Bosnian clubs present during the demonstrations have also reported that they were subject to similar ethnic provocations and willful police neglect when visiting Western Herzegovina.\n\nThey also expressed shock at the fact that as soon as physical confrontations broke out between them and the Škripari, the police started attacking members of Horde Zla in unison with Škripari and other local residents instead of doing their job of separating them. They demanded a thorough investigation into the misconduct of the Široki Brijeg police force which later confirmed that multiple policemen have been aiding and abetting assaults on members of Horde Zla including, in the case of policeman Dragan Vujović, being accomplices to murder. They also accused the police of ignoring local residents who had been shooting automatic weapons at the members of Horde Zla as in the case of Oliver Knezević who can be seen holding an AK-47 while being ignored by a nearby police officer on surveillance footage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58667424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58667424", "title": "2018 Bahraini general election", "text": "2018 Bahraini general election\n\nGeneral elections were held in Bahrain on 24 November 2018, with a second round in some constituencies on 1 December. Considered by some to be sham elections, they followed a crackdown on dissent that included prohibiting members of dissolved opposition groups from running. \n\nThe 40 members of the Council of Representatives are elected from single-member constituencies using a two-round system; if no candidate receives a majority of the vote in the first round, a second round is held. Candidates had to apply between 17 and 21 October 2018, with 293 registering to contest the 40 seats.\n\nNine of the 40 constituencies had a winner in the first round, with the other 31 going to a runoff. According to the regime, voter turnout in the first round was 67%, an increase from 53% in the 2014 elections. However, the opposition maintained that the real voter turnout did not exceed 28%-30%.\n"}
{"id": "31256327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256327", "title": "Accidental incest", "text": "Accidental incest\n\nAccidental incest is sexual activity or marriage between persons who were unaware of a family relationship between them which would be considered incestuous.\n\nThe laws of many jurisdictions void incestuous marriages, even if entered into without awareness of the kinship. If an incestuous relationship is suspected, DNA testing may be used. Some jurisdictions permit offspring of IVF donations access to donation records or to adoption records.\n\nPeople may be unaware of a kinship relationship between them in a number of circumstances. For example, artificial insemination with an anonymous donated sperm may result in offspring being unaware of any biological relations, such as paternity or half siblings. To reduce the likelihood of accidental incest, fertility clinics usually limit the number of times that a donor's sperm may be used. Some countries have laws limiting the number of children a donor can father. while others limit sperm donations based on family numbers to enable one family to have true siblings.\n\nTaiwan allows those conceived by artificial means to find out if they are related to a person they are considering marrying.\n\nAccidental incest may also arise in the following situations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1220049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220049", "title": "Amethyst Incident", "text": "Amethyst Incident\n\nThe \"Amethyst\" Incident, also known as the Yangtze Incident, was a historic event which involved the Royal Navy ship HMS \"Amethyst\" on the Yangtze River for three months during the Chinese Civil War in the summer of 1949. \n\nOn 20 April 1949, HMS \"Amethyst\", commanded by Lieutenant Commander Bernard Skinner, was on her way from Shanghai to Nanking to replace , which was standing as a guard ship for the British Embassy there during the Chinese Civil War between the nationalist Kuomintang led Republic of China and the Communist Party led People's Republic of China. According to the Royal Navy, at around 08:31, after a burst of small arms fire, a People's Liberation Army (PLA) field gun battery on the north bank of the river fired a salvo of ten shells, which fell well short of the ship, and was assumed to be part of a regular bombardment of Nationalist forces on the south bank. Speed was increased, and large Union flags were unfurled on either side of the ship, after which there was no more firing from this battery.\n\nAt 09:30, as the frigate approached Kiangyin (now known as Jiangyin) further up the river, she came under sustained fire from a second People's Liberation Army (PLA) battery. The first shell passed over the ship, then the bridge, wheelhouse and low power room were hit in quick succession, Lieutenant Commander Skinner was mortally wounded, and all the bridge personnel were disabled. The coxswain on the wheel, Leading Seaman Leslie Frank, was seriously injured and as a result the ship slewed to port and grounded on the bank before control of the ship was regained. Before the ship grounded, the order to open fire had been given, but when the director layer pulled the firing trigger, nothing happened, because the firing circuits were disabled when the low power room was hit.\n\nFirst Lieutenant Geoffrey L. Weston assumed command of the vessel, although he was also wounded himself. PLA shells exploded in the sick bay, the port engine room, and finally the generator, just after the injured Weston's last transmission: \"Under heavy fire. Am aground in approx. position 31.10' North 119.20' East. Large number of casualties\".\n\nThe order was given to fire in local control with each turret firing independently, but \"Amethyst\" had grounded in such a way that neither of the two forward gun turrets could bring their guns to bear on the PLA batteries, leaving the single stern turret to return fire. This turret was soon hit and disabled. None of the close range weapons could be brought to bear on the PLA batteries. The shore batteries continued to fire at \"Amethyst,\" causing more damage and casualties on board.\n\nSome time between 10:00 and 10:30, Weston ordered the immediate evacuation to shore of anyone who could be spared. A boat was manned to take people the short distance to shore and some men swam ashore. The batteries switched their fire to the men being evacuated and further evacuation was stopped. Fifty-nine ratings and four Chinese mess boys made it to the Kuomintang-controlled southern bank, but two men were assumed drowned while swimming ashore. Those who survived were joined by the seriously wounded from \"Amethyst\" who had been landed by sampan, with the assistance of the Chinese Nationalists on the following day. Both parties were taken to a missionary hospital in Kiangyin where they were met by a party from the British Embassy in Nanking and put on a train for Shanghai. Remaining on board were about 60 unwounded men. The shelling had stopped, but no one could move without drawing the attention of PLA snipers.\n\nBy the time the shelling stopped at about 11:00, 22 men had been killed and 31 wounded in all. \"Amethyst\" had received over 50 hits and holes below the waterline were plugged with hammocks and bedding. During this time the destroyer \"Consort\" was sighted, flying seven White Ensigns and three Union flags, steaming down from Nanking at 29 knots. Admiral Madden, the Flag Officer, second in command, Far East Station, ordered the destroyer HMS \"Consort\" (Commander Robertson) to go from Nanking to the \"Amethyst\"'s assistance, and ordered the frigate \"Black Swan\" (Captain Jay) to go from Shanghai to Kiangyin, 40 miles down river from the \"Amethyst\".\n\n\"Consort\" reached the \"Amethyst\" at about three in the afternoon and was immediately fired upon. She found the fire too heavy to approach \"Amethyst\" and therefore passed her at speed down river. She turned two miles below and again closed \"Amethyst\" to take her in tow. But again she came under such heavy fire that she was obliged to abandon the attempt, although she answered the shore batteries with her full armament (including 4.5-inch (114 mm) guns) and soon signaled that she had silenced most of the opposition. Half an hour later her signals ceased, though she was making a second attempt to take the \"Amethyst\" in tow, having turned downstream again. This attempt also failed and she sustained further damage and casualties during which her steering was affected. She therefore had to continue downstream out of the firing area with 10 men killed and 23 wounded.\n\n\"Amethyst\" was re-floated just after midnight, on 21 April, after lightening the ship, and she moved up river. The Assistant British Naval Attaché, Lieutenant Commander John Kerans, joined the ship on 22 April after he had dealt with all the wounded and unwounded men who had been sent ashore. He assumed command of the ship that day.\n\nDuring the next few days \"Amethyst\" moved several times, but each time she got under way the batteries opened fire at her and the ship was forced to anchor finally finishing up off Fu Te Wei.\n\nOn 21 April a signal was received: \"\"HM ships\" London \"and\" Black Swan \"are moving up river to escort the\" Amethyst \"down stream. Be ready to move.\"\" The cruiser and the frigate (ex-sloop and \"Amethyst\"s sister ship) were heavily shelled as they attempted to help \"Amethyst\" and retreated with 3 killed and 14 wounded.\n\nOn 30 April the PLA demanded that Britain, the United States, and France quickly withdraw their armed forces from any part of China. During the negotiations the Communists insisted that the British ship fired first, but eventually in 1988 the PLA commander Ye Fei admitted that it was his troops that fired first. \"Amethyst\" remained under guard by the PLA for ten weeks, with vital supplies being withheld from the ship. Negotiations were stuck because Kerans would not accept the demand of Colonel Kang Yushao (康予召), the PLA representative, that he admit the British state had wrongly invaded Chinese national waters and had fired upon the PLA first. Because the communists (and later the People's Republic of China) did not acknowledge any treaties between the previous Chinese government and the British, they insisted that it was illegal for \"Amethyst\" to cruise in the Yangtze river.\n\nOn 30 July 1949 \"Amethyst\" slipped her chain and headed downriver in the dark, beginning a dash for freedom running the gauntlet of guns on both banks of the river. She followed the passenger ship \"Kiang Ling Liberation\" in the hope that the observers ashore would be confused and not see \"Amethyst\" in the dark. When the battery opened fire, the fire was directed at the \"Kiang Lin Liberation\" which was sunk by the gun fire, with heavy civilian casualties.\n\nAt 0500 hours on 31 July, \"Amethyst\" approached the PLA forts at Par Shan (Baoshan) and Woosung (Wusong) which had their searchlights sweeping the river. At 0525 a planned meeting with the destroyer took place, at which point \"Amethyst\" sent the signal \"Have rejoined the fleet south of Woosung. No damage. No casualties. God save the King\".\n\n\"Concord\" had been ordered to prepare to provide gun support to \"Amethyst\" if she came under fire from the shore batteries at Woosung. To achieve this she had moved up the Yangtze during the night, at action stations. Fortunately for the British, \"Amethyst\" was not spotted by the shore batteries and the two ships then proceeded down river until at 0715 they stood down from action stations and after clearing the river mouth arrived at the Saddle Islands at 1200 hrs to anchor and transfer much needed oil and stores.\n\nAfter a short stay at anchor, \"Concord\" lent \"Amethyst\" sailors to fill gaps in her ship's company and the two ships set sail for Hong Kong. Next day the cruiser (flying the flag of the Flag Officer Second in Command Far East Fleet) and destroyer took over as escort and proceeded to Hong Kong. \"Concord\" was sent to Japan after being sworn to secrecy. \"Amethyst\" subsequently received a message of congratulations from King George VI:\n\nFuture Governor of Hong Kong Edward Youde was on the British Embassy Staff at Nanking. At great personal risk he penetrated the Chinese Communist lines in an attempt to negotiate the release of \"Amethyst\" with the PLA. His negotiations came to naught. Youde later was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire for his actions.\n\nAlso onboard the \"Amethyst\" was a cat named Simon. Simon was wounded during the event and after being fixed up continued to perform his duties catching rats which protected the food supply for the 101 day siege. He also provided moral support for the surviving sailors. Simon died not long after the ship returned to the UK and was posthumously awarded the UK’s Dickin Medal, sometimes referred to as \"the animals' Victoria Cross\".\n\nThe American \"Suspense\" radio series included an episode entitled \"'Log of the Marne\" (22 October 1951), largely based on the events of the Yangtze incident.\n\nRichard Todd starred as Kerans in the 1957 film \"Yangtse Incident: The Story of HMS Amethyst\" (in the US most commonly released as \"Battle Hell\", but also as \"Escape of the Amethyst\" and \"Their Greatest Glory\"). For the film, \"Amethyst\" was brought out of storage to play herself. As her engines were no longer operational, her sister ship, , was used for shots of the ship moving.\n"}
{"id": "16163668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16163668", "title": "Avulsion injury", "text": "Avulsion injury\n\nIn medicine, an avulsion is an injury in which a body structure is torn off by either trauma or surgery (from the Latin \"avellere\", meaning \"to tear off\"). The term most commonly refers to a surface trauma where all layers of the skin have been torn away, exposing the underlying structures (i.e., subcutaneous tissue, muscle, tendons, or bone). This is similar to an abrasion but more severe, as body parts such as an eyelid or an ear can be partially or fully detached from the body.\n\nThe most common avulsion injury, skin avulsions usually occur during motor vehicle collisions. The severity of avulsion ranges from skin flaps (minor) to degloving (moderate) and amputation of a finger or limb (severe). Suprafascial avulsions are those in which the depth of the removed skin reaches the subcutaneous tissue layer, while subfascial avulsions extend deeper than the subcutaneous layer. Small suprafascial avulsions can be repaired by suturing, but most avulsions require skin grafts or reconstructive surgery.\n\nIn rock climbing, a \"flapper\" is an injury in which parts of the skin are torn off, resulting in a loose flap of skin on the fingers. This is usually the result of friction forces between the climber's fingers and the holds, arising when the climber slips off a hold.\n\nTo fix this injury and to be able to continue climbing, many climbers will apply sports tape to the flapped finger to cover up the sensitive area of broken skin. Some climbers may even use super-glue to adhere the loose skin back to the finger.\n\nThe ear is particularly vulnerable to avulsion injuries because of its position on the side of the head. The most common cause of ear avulsions is human bites, followed by falls, motor vehicle collisions, and dog bites. A partially avulsed ear can be reattached through suturing or microvascular surgery, depending on the severity of the injury. Microvascular surgery can also be used to reattach a completely avulsed ear, but its success rate is lower because of the need for venous drainage. The ear can also be reconstructed with cartilage and skin grafts or an external ear prosthesis can be made by an anaplastologist.\n\nEyelid avulsions are uncommon, but can be caused by motor vehicle collisions, dog bites, or human bites. Eyelid avulsions are repaired by suturing after a CT scan is performed to determine where damage to the muscles, nerves, and blood vessels of the eyelid has occurred. More severe injuries require reconstruction, however, this usually results in some loss of function and subsequent surgeries may be necessary to improve structure and function. Microvascular surgery is another method of repair but is rarely used to treat eye avulsions. Sometimes botulinum toxin is injected into the eyelid to paralyze the muscles while the eyelid heals.\n\nTrauma to the nail can cause the nail plate to be torn from the nail bed. Unlike other types of avulsion, when a nail is lost, it is not typically reattached. Following the loss of the nail, the nail bed forms a germinal layer which hardens as the cells acquire keratin and becomes a new nail. Until this layer has formed, the exposed nail bed is highly sensitive, and is typically covered with a non-adherent dressing, as an ordinary dressing will stick to the nail bed and cause pain upon removal. In the average person, fingernails require 3 to 6 months to regrow completely, while toenails require 12 to 18 months.\n\nIn brachial plexus avulsions, the brachial plexus (a bundle of nerves that communicates signals between the spine and the arms, shoulders, and hands) is torn from its attachment to the spinal cord. One common cause of brachial plexus avulsions is when a baby's shoulders rotate in the birth canal during delivery, which causes the brachial plexus to stretch and tear. It occurs in 1-2 out of every 1,000 births. Shoulder trauma during motor vehicle collisions is another common cause of brachial plexus avulsions. Detachment of the nerves can cause pain and loss of function in the arms, shoulders, and hands. Neuropathic pain can be treated with medication, but it is only through surgical reattachment or nerve grafts that function can be restored. For intractable pain, a procedure called dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) lesioning can be effective.\n\nDuring a tooth avulsion, a tooth is completely or partially (such that the dental pulp is exposed) detached from its socket. Secondary (permanent) teeth can be replaced and stabilised by a dentist. Primary (baby) teeth are not replaced because they tend to become infected and to interfere with the growth of the secondary teeth. A completely avulsed tooth that is replaced within one hour of the injury can be permanently retained. The long-term retention rate decreases as the time that the tooth is detached increases, and eventually root resorption makes replacement of the tooth impossible. To minimize damage to the root, the tooth should be kept in milk or sterile saline while it is outside the mouth.\n\nDuring a periosteal avulsion, the periosteum (a fibrous layer that surrounds a bone) detaches the bone's surface. An example of a periosteal avulsion is an ALPSA (anterior labral periosteal sleeve avulsion).\n\nAn avulsion is sometimes performed surgically to relieve symptoms of a disorder, or to prevent a chronic condition from recurring. Small incision avulsion (also called ambulatory phlebectomy) is used to remove varicose veins from the legs in disorders such as chronic venous insufficiency. A nail avulsion is performed to remove all or part of a chronic ingrown nail. Facial nerve avulsion is used to treat the involuntary twitching involved in benign essential blepharospasm. However, it often requires additional surgeries to retain function and botulinum toxin injections have been shown to be more effective than surgical avulsions in treating benign essential blepharospasm, while causing fewer complications.\n\n"}
{"id": "19696772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19696772", "title": "Balloon release", "text": "Balloon release\n\nA balloon release is a ceremonial event in which a number of hydrogen or helium-filled balloons are unleashed into the sky.\nThere is considerable opposition to, and legislation against, balloon releases, due to environmental, flight safety, and wildlife conservation issues. Balloon releases can be done as a prayer ceremony, to create a photo opportunity, to raise awareness of a cause or campaign, or as a competitive long-distance race.\n\nAkin to a Sky lantern ceremony of Chinese tradition, a group balloon release can serve as a quiet, prayerful group activity at a funeral or solemn occasion. Unlike sky lanterns, which float down after a short time, helium or hydrogen balloons quickly rise to heights in which they can no longer be seen. Balloon releases are also used in celebration, as a substitute to confetti, in order to avoid an immediate mess.\nA balloon race or balloon flight contest is a competition wherein the competitors attempt to send balloons as far as possible. It can be compared to a rubber duck race. Postcards are attached to the balloons which are then released. The flight of the balloons cannot be influenced by the competitors. Instead, success in the contest is dependent on the wind conditions and on the location in which the balloon lands. The contest depends on the goodwill of passers-by to find the balloons and return the postcards. A prize may be awarded to the person whose balloon travels the furthest.\n\nHelium balloons are claimed to reach a height of anywhere up to ten kilometres. \n\nIt is also possible for a balloon, under the right circumstances, to reach equilibrium, and remain suspended in the air for some time, until the helium slowly diffuses out of the balloon.\n\n\nA balloon release in 1986 by the charity United Way Services of Cleveland, in Ohio, USA, was a fund-raising attempt to break the world record for the number of balloons in a single release. 1.5 million balloons were released, but an approaching weather front caused them to return to earth, covering the city in balloons, causing cars to crash, and hindering the coast guard in a rescue mission. It contributed to the deaths of two sailors on Lake Erie (the wife of one victim sued the organisers, and settled out-of-court), resulted in injuries to horses, and caused traffic accidents. A runway at Burke Lakefront Airport had to be closed. The Guinness Book of Records no longer accepts balloon release records.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the National Association of Balloon Artists and Suppliers (NABAS) provide guidelines for appropriate balloon releases in order to minimize potential environmental impacts. These guidelines include the limit to the number of balloons that should be released, releasing only balloons made from appropriate material, and that no materials such as ribbons or strings are included or attached to the end of any balloons that are released.\n\nA number of organisations (for example, in the United Kingdom, these include the Marine Conservation Society, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the Tidy Britain Group, the National Farmers Union, and the RSPB) oppose balloon releases, because of the visual impact of the fallen, deflated balloons, and the risk of harm to wildlife and domestic animals which they pose. For these reasons, balloon releases are prohibited in some jurisdictions.\n\nIn March 2017 the Marine Conservation Society launched an on-line pledge asking the public to sign an online pledge page to help the charity create an interactive map to show support for bans around the UK.\n\nIn May 2018 a peer-reviewed study by Delia M. Webb was published that revealed 2,223 pieces of balloon litter were found on 39 beaches across Cornwall between July – December 2016. The study entitled \"Just a balloon? A local study of the extent and impacts of balloon litter on beaches” reported that some of the balloons found on Cornish beaches had travelled from other parts of the UK, Ireland and Europe.\n\nOn 31 July 2018 photos were released showing the damage to wildlife caused by helium balloons in Devon and Cornwall, England. \n\nIn August 2918 Florida-based non-profit Balloons Blow erected a giant billboard in Lincoln, Nebraska, United States asking the University of Nebraska-Lincoln's \"Huskers\" football team to cease their large-scale (up to 3,000 items) balloon releases at each home game.\n\nWithin many countries written permission is often required from the relevant airspace regulatory authority. In the UK this would be the Civil Aviation Authority, for releases over a certain number of balloons.\n\nHelium is a natural atmospheric gas, but as a land-resource, it is limited. As of 2012 the United States National Helium Reserve accounted for 30 percent of the world's helium, and was expected to run out of helium in 2018. Some geophysicists fear the world's helium could be gone in a generation. For this reason, balloon releases are seen as a wasteful use of this limited resource.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "960232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960232", "title": "Blasphemous libel", "text": "Blasphemous libel\n\nBlasphemous libel was originally an offence under the common law of England. Today, it is an offence under the common law of Northern Ireland, it is a statutory offence in Canada and New Zealand, and it has been abolished in England and Wales. It consists of the publication of material which exposes the Christian religion to scurrility, vilification, ridicule, and contempt, and the material must have the tendency to shock and outrage the feelings of Christians. It is a form of criminal libel.\n\nHistorically, the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel were adopted from the common law of England as common law offences in British colonies. From the late 19th century several colonies and countries replaced the common law offences with adopted versions of the draft code called \"the Stephen Code\" written by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen as part of a Royal Commission in England in 1879. The Stephen Code included the offence of blasphemous libel but omitted blasphemy. The common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel were abolished in England and Wales with the passage of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 but the offences remain as part of the common law, criminal code, or criminal statute in various countries.\n\nBlasphemy laws are incompatible with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). In July, 2011, the UN Human Rights Committee released a 52-paragraph statement, General Comment 34 on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1976, concerning freedoms of opinion and expression. Paragraph 48 states: \n\nIn both Canada and New Zealand it is not blasphemous libel to express in good faith any opinion on a religious subject.\n\nIt remains an offence in some Australian states and territories, although the Commonwealth and some states and territories have abolished it within their jurisdiction. For details, see Blasphemy law in Australia.\n\nIn Canada, blasphemous libel is an offence under section 296 of the Criminal Code. \n\nHowever, as of early 2018, it is being repealed by Bill C-51, which has passed the lower house, but not the upper house.\n\nIt is an indictable offence and is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. The offence of blasphemous libel, like all other laws of Canada, is subject to section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which protects freedom of expression. To date, no court has been asked to consider whether blasphemous libel is consistent with the Charter's guarantee of freedom of expression, which came into force in 1982.\n\nThe last prosecution of a charge of blasphemous libel was in 1935, in \"R v Rahard\", in Quebec. In that case, the court adopted an argument that prosecutor E. J. Murphy had proffered in the case of \"R v Sperry\" (unreported) in 1926. Mr. Murphy put the issue this way:\n\nIn \"Rahard\", the Court found the Rev. Victor Rahard of the Anglican Church of Canada guilty of blasphemous libel for his aspersions upon the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe words \"calculated and intended to insult the feelings and the deepest religious convictions of the great majority of the persons amongst whom we live\", which the court used, were adopted from the summing up of Lord Coleridge, LCJ. in \"R v Bradlaugh\".\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, §13 of the Defamation Act, 1961 prescribed penalties for blasphemous libel, but did not define the offence. The only attempted prosecution since the 1937 Constitution was in 1999; the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution had extinguished the common law offence of blasphemous libel, since when \"it is impossible to say of what the offence of blasphemy consists\". The Defamation Act 2009 defines a new offence of \"Publication or utterance of blasphemous matter\", which was held to be required by Article 40.6.1.i. of the Constitution, which states \"The publication or utterance of blasphemous, seditious or indecent matter is an offence which shall be punishable in accordance with law\".\n\nIn New Zealand it is an offence under section 123 of the Crimes Act 1961 to publish any blasphemous libel. The maximum punishment is one year imprisonment. No one can be prosecuted without the consent of the Attorney General.\n\nSection 123(3) of the Crimes Act 1961 provides:\n\nIn 1985, the Law Commission (England and Wales) published a report, \"Criminal Law: Offences against Religious and Public Worship\", that concluded that the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel should be abolished without replacement. In England and Wales, the common law offence of blasphemous libel was abolished on 8 July 2008 by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008. The Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 created an offence of inciting hatred against a person on the grounds of their religion.\n\nBlasphemous libel is an offence under the common law of Northern Ireland.\nSection 7 of the Libel Act 1843 creates a defence.\n\nSee also the Criminal Libel Act 1819, the Libel Act 1792 and section 8 of the Law of Libel Amendment Act 1888.\n\n"}
{"id": "11075629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11075629", "title": "Boar's Head Feast", "text": "Boar's Head Feast\n\nThe Boar's Head Feast is a festival of the Christmas season.\n\nOglethorpe University in Atlanta, Georgia celebrates the Boar's Head Ceremony annually. \"Boar's Head is held in the Conant Center on the first Friday in December. It begins with a procession of the members of Omicron Delta Kappa, in academic regalia, carrying a roasted boar's head on a litter. The procession is followed by a reading of the Boar's Head story. The rest of the celebration consists of a concert featuring the University Singers and the Concert Winds, the lighting of the holiday tree and a reception sponsored by the Oglethorpe Student Association. The armorial crest of General James Edward Oglethorpe, which depicts four boars' heads, serves as the inspiration for this annual tradition\".\n\nIn 1934, the presidency of Benjamin Rush Rhees was waning and that of Alan Valentine was rising. Valentine, a Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford, helped to solidify this tradition at Rochester . This American variant honors a professor and a club at the university each year hence . The professor is responsible for the recounting of the tale of the boar, often at the expense of the students enrolled in their classes. The student club honored receives the head of the slain boar, the highest honor for that academic year. The feast has been held in numerous locations on the River Campus and has settled into the newly refurbished Richard Feldman Ballroom . \nPresentations of the Boar's Head festival can be found at:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39971785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39971785", "title": "Brasilia Presidential Act", "text": "Brasilia Presidential Act\n\nThe Brasilia Presidential Act is an international treaty signed by the then President of Ecuador, Jamil Mahuad and President of Peru, Alberto Fujimori which effectively put an end to the Western Hemisphere's longest running territorial dispute.\n\nDuring the 20th Century Peru and Ecuador had fought several armed conflicts as part of the Ecuadorian–Peruvian territorial dispute. The last of these conflicts was the Cenepa War in 1995.\n\nThe peace agreement was followed by the formal demarcation of the border on 13 May 1999 and the end of the multi-national MOMEP (Military Observer Mission for Ecuador and Peru) troop deployment on 17 June 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "16159058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16159058", "title": "Business &amp; Finance", "text": "Business &amp; Finance\n\nBusiness & Finance (sometimes B&F) is a fortnightly Irish business magazine published by Belenos Publications, that was established by Hugh McLaughlin in September 1964. It provides news, comment and analysis on Irish and international news stories. The readership is made up of business professionals, including senior level business leaders such as CEOs and heads of functions. It is a sister title to \"Magill\".\n\nThe magazine has been published continually since its foundation in 1964. At the beginning of the 2000s the magazine was published on a weekly basis. The parent company is Belenos Publications, which acquired the magazine in 2001.\n\n\"Business & Finance\" is edited by John Walsh, who took over after the departure of controversial economist Constantin Gurdgiev. Contributors include Richard Delevan, Gavin Miller, Nicole Matthews, Sarah Gilmartin and teic.ie editor Adam Maguire.\n\nThe magazine claimed a readership of over 55,100 and a bi-weekly circulation, according to an ABC circulated audit, of 15,767 for the period 1 July to 31 December 2008.\n\nAlso published are the annual \"Top 1000 Companies in Ireland\" and the \"Who's Who in Irish Business\". Other publications include the Life Sciences Review for news and updates for the life sciences industry in Ireland and Green Business which focuses on the implications of the move to 'green' for the business community.\n\nBusiness & Finance Media Group have an Events Division, which manages several awards and events including the Business & Finance US Business Awards, Business & Finance Awards, Golden Spider Awards, the International Financial Services Summit. In 2009 it also launched the inaugural Business & Finance Asia Pacific/Ireland awards. Also in the portfolio is the Top 1000 Companies in Ireland Database and a real-time online news portal.\n\nMoranna Ltd., the company publishing \"Business & Finance\", folded in early 2011 owing more than €500,000. A new debt-free company was then established to continue publishing the magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54581376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54581376", "title": "Chișinău Independence Day Parade", "text": "Chișinău Independence Day Parade\n\nThe Chișinău Independence Day Parade is one of the events of the Independence Day of Moldova. The parade is held in Chișinău, Moldova on August 27 every 5 to 10 years on Great National Assembly Square.\n\nBefore 1991 parades in the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic were held in honor of the Russian Revolution, Victory Day, and until 1969 May Day. In 1974, Chisinau hosted a parade in honor of the 50th anniversary of its integration into the Soviet Union.\n\n\n\n\nThe military bands of the Chisinau Garrison who take part in the parade are composed of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47677251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47677251", "title": "Concussions in rugby union", "text": "Concussions in rugby union\n\nConcussions in England's professional rugby union are the most common injury received. Concussion can occur where an individual experiences an impact to the head. Commonly occurring in high contact sporting activities; American football, boxing, and rugby. It can also occur in recreational activities like horse riding, jumping, cycling, and skiing. The reason being that it doesn't have to be something to strike you in the proximity of your brain, but can also be caused by rapid change of movement, giving the skull not enough time to move with your body, causing your brain to press against your skull. With rugby being such a contact and fast moving sport, it is no wonder why there is concussion and other head injuries occurring. With the development of equipment and training methods, these will help benefit the players on the field know what could happen and how they can help with preventing it.\n\nA concussion, which is known as a subset of traumatic brain injury (TBI), is when a force comes in contact with the head, neck or face, or fast movement of the head, causing a functional injury to the brain. Depending on where the location of impact, depends on the severity of the injury. It is short-lived impairment of neurological function, the brains ability to process information, which can be resolved in seven to ten days. Not all concussion involves the loss of consciousness, with it occurring in less than 10% of concussions. Second-impact syndrome is when a player has obtained a second concussion when you either return to field the same day, or return to play before a complete recovery from a previous concussion. This is a result from brain swelling, from vascular congestion and increased intracranial pressure, this can be fatal to a player as it is a very difficult medical injury to control. The brain is surrounded by cerebrospinal fluid, which protects it from light trauma. More severe impacts, or the forces associated with rapid acceleration, may not be absorbed by this cushion. Concussion may be caused by impact forces, in which the head strikes or is struck by something, or impulsive forces, in which the head moves without itself being subject to blunt trauma (for example, when the chest hits something and the head snaps forward). Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or \"CTE\", is an example of the cumulative damage that can occur as the result of multiple concussions or less severe blows to the head. The condition was previously referred to as \"dementia pugilistica\", or \"punch drunk\" syndrome, as it was first noted in boxers. The disease can lead to cognitive and physical handicaps such as parkinsonism, speech and memory problems, slowed mental processing, tremor, depression, and inappropriate behavior. It shares features with Alzheimer's disease.\n\nIn a 2013 interview, recently retired Scotland international Rory Lamont was critical of the then-current protocols for handling concussions, notably the Pitchside Suspected Concussion Assessment (PSCA) employed at that time::\n\nRugby union has been played since the early eighteen hundreds. Being a high contact sport it has the highest announced rates of concussion. Research finding that during match play, concussion was reported at a higher level, and during training at a lower level, but still at a higher level than most players of another sport to receive. With the game being both physically and mentally demanding, it varies from being at high intensities of sprinting, tackling and rucking, with small intensities of jogging and walking. The position of the forwards consists of them having to have a lot of physical strength to get the ball from the other team, or create gaps for their team to run through. Where as the backs are the players that make the play happen, making runs with the ball, with the protection of the forwards stopping attacks, the backs still do get tackled like any other player on the field, so they have to have physical strength as much as a forward. The Concussion bin was replaced by the head bin in 2012 with the players assessment taking 10 minutes.\n\nConcussion was the most commonly reported Premiership Rugby match injury in 2015-16 (for the 5th consecutive season), constituting appropriately 25% of all match injuries, and the RFU medical officer said that the tackle is where the overwhelming majority of concussions occur.\nA study found that playing more than 25 matches in the 2015/2016 season meant that sustaining concussion was more likely than not sustaining concussion.\n\nSome of the effects that concussion can cause to an individuals mind set can vary, depending on the circumstances and the severity of the impact. The common signs of concussion can be; blank look, slow to get up off of the ground, unsteady on their feet, grabbing their head, confused in where they are or what they are doing, and obviously if they are unconscious. These are the things that a spectator, coach and medical assistant will notice in a player. Sometimes concussion can go unrecognised, so from a players point there can be these symptoms; continual headaches, dizziness, visual problems, feeling of fatigue and drowsiness. These all can occur post game, so a player needs to have knowledge of what these signs could mean.\n\nOnce taken off the field of play due to possible concussion, being unconscious, or showing the symptoms post game, getting medical advice as soon as possible is recommended. At the hospital or medical practice, the player will be under observation, if they are experiencing a headache, mild pain killers will be given. The medical professional will request that no food or drink is to be consumed until advised. They will then assess whether the player needs an x-ray, to check for any possible cervical vertebrae damage, or a computerised axial tomography (CT Scan) to check for any brain or cranium damage. With a mild head injury being sent home to take care and doing activities slower than usual, and maintaining painkillers. If symptoms of concussion don't disappear in the average of seven to ten days, then seek medical advice again as injury could be worse. In post-concussion syndrome, symptoms do not resolve for weeks, months, or years after a concussion, and may occasionally be permanent. About 10% to 20% of people have post concussion syndrome for more than a month.\n\nIn order to minimise the risk of concussion and repetitive head trauma, the method of the 6 R's is used. Firstly Recognising and Removing a suspected player of concussion, to stop the injury from getting worse. Secondly Refer, whether the player is either recognised or suspected with concussion they must see a medical doctor as soon as possible. 90.8% of players knew they should not continue playing when concussed. 75% of players would continue an important game even if concussed. Of those concussed, 39.1% have tried to influence medical assessment with 78.2% stating it is possible or quite easy to do so. If the player is diagnosed with concussion, they then must Rest, until all signs of concussion are gone. The player must then Recover by just returning to general activities in life, then progressing back to playing. Returning to play, must follow the Graduated Return to Play (GRTP) protocol, by having clearance from a medical professional, and no symptoms of concussion. Despite good knowledge of concussion complications, management players engage in unsafe behaviour with little difference between gender and competition grades. Information regarding symptoms and management should be available to all players, coaches, and parents. On-going education is needed to assist coaches in identifying concussion signs and symptoms. Provision of medical care should be mandatory at every level of competition.\n\nA 2017 study found that past participation in rugby or a history of concussion were associated with small to moderate neurocognitive deficits after retirement from competitive sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "11486308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486308", "title": "De Grote Donorshow", "text": "De Grote Donorshow\n\nDe Grote Donorshow (The Great Donor Show) was a reality television program which was broadcast in the Netherlands on Friday, June 1, 2007, by BNN. The program involved a supposedly terminally ill 37-year-old woman donating a kidney to one of twenty-five people requiring a kidney transplantation. After a first selection, three people remained. Viewers were able to send advice on whom they thought she should choose to give her kidney to via text messages. The profit made by the text messages was given to the Dutch Kidney Foundation. The program, due to its controversial nature, had received heavy international criticism in the run-up to the broadcast. In the end, it was revealed during the course of the show that the \"terminally ill\" woman was, in reality, an actress, although the three candidates were, in fact, real kidney patients; they were aware that Lisa was an actress, and participated because they were supportive of BNN's cause to give awareness to the limited number of organ donors in the Netherlands.\n\nIn a press statement after the show, Paul Römer, the director of the program's creator Endemol, stated that the show was necessary in order to get the shortage of donors back on the political agenda.\n\nBart de Graaff, the BNN founder who died in May 2002 (almost exactly 5 years before the broadcast of the show), obtained a donor kidney in 1997. De Graaff had renal failure stemming from a car accident in his youth. The studio from which the show was aired contained photos of him, as seen in the adjacent picture. It has been claimed that De Graaff was BNN's source of inspiration for the show, both by the show's host, Lodiers, as well as in the post-broadcast press release.\n\nJoop Atsma, a member of the House of Representatives for the Christian Democratic Appeal, had attempted to censor the show. Dutch culture minister Ronald Plasterk, citing Dutch law, refused to prohibit the television program, although he found the program to be unethical due to its competitive element. Before the show aired, the Dutch Kidney Foundation told a reporter \"they welcomed all the attention the show had brought on the subject\" but also stated that \"their way of doing it is not ours, and it will bring no practical solution\". In a press statement, the foundation also stated that they had asked BNN to cease using their logo in The Great Donor Show's logo (note the icon of a kidney instead of an \"o\" in the logo, as seen at the top right of the page), for which BNN had never asked permission. The Dutch prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, had expressed his concerns for what he believed would damage the reputation of the Netherlands.\n\nLaurens Drillich, the chairman of BNN at the time, defended the program and argued that the network deliberately wants to shock people and draw attention to the shortage of organ donors. \"We very much agree that it's bad taste but we also believe that reality is even worse taste. I mean, it's going very, very bad with organ donorship in the Netherlands. We as a broadcaster, BNN, had someone who started our TV station who needed kidneys and was on a waiting list and died eventually at the age of 35. That happened five years ago and in the last five years the situation has only gotten worse in the Netherlands.\"\n\nIn a press statement after the show, the director of Endemol, Paul Römer, stated \"Let there be no misunderstanding, I would never make a program such as 'The Great Donor Show' for real. I do understand the massive outrage very well. But I also hope for people to understand why we did this. It was necessary to get the shortage of donors back on the political agenda. I call up everybody to get very angry about that, and to fill in a donor form.\"\n\nMinister of Education, Culture, and Science Ronald Plasterk told the press he now thought that \"the show had been a fantastic idea, and a great stunt\". Joop Atsma, MP for the Christian Democrats, who had previously attempted to prohibit the show, has called it a \"tasteless show\", and claimed that he feels it didn't contribute to the solving of the problem.\n\nA few hours after the show BNN had already received SMS messages from over 12,000 viewers who told the network that they would fill in a donor form. The day after, 30,000 donor forms were requested, and two days after the show the official Dutch TV news broadcast \"NOS News\" announced that 50,000 people had requested a donor form to be sent to them, a figure that is expected to still rise. In July, a month after the show aired, 7,300 new donors were registered by the Dutch donor registration.\n\nLaurens Drillich, BNN's chairman, told the press \"It was very hard to keep this a secret, and to tell this lie time after time, but I did it because of the good cause.\"\n\nOn January 12, 2008, the scene during which Patrick Lodiers revealed that the show was a hoax with the purpose of drawing attention to the Dutch donor shortage problem was voted as the best Dutch TV moment of the year 2007. During a brief speech, the chairman of BNN, Laurens Drillich, said the following: \"The show was aired in June, today is January. Dutch politicians promised to put donor shortage on their agenda. We're still waiting for a reaction.\"\n\nThe show won a 2008 International Emmy for non-scripted entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1937383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937383", "title": "Edmonton's Labatt Blues Festival", "text": "Edmonton's Labatt Blues Festival\n\nThe Edmonton's Labatt Blues Festival (or Edmonton Labatt Blues Fest) was an annual blues music festival in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, which was first held in 1999. The festival runs for three days (a Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) in mid-August at the Heritage Amphitheatre in Hawrelak Park. In 2008, the festival was the recipient of the 'Keeping The Blues Alive Award' from the Blues Foundation, based in Memphis, Tennessee. 2010 saw a name change as the festival became simply The Edmonton Blues Festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38430709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38430709", "title": "Ekaterina (TV series)", "text": "Ekaterina (TV series)\n\nReleased in 2014, Ekaterina is a Russia-1 historical television biographical film starring Marina Aleksandrova as the eventual Russian empress Catherine the Great. The first season tells the story of princess Sophie Friederike Auguste, and her rise to power to become Empress of Russia, following a coup d'état and the assassination of her husband, Peter III. The second season portrays the challenges she faces at home and abroad during the early years of her rule, as she tries to revitalise Russia to become one of the great powers of Europe, and becomes titled 'the Great'. This drama also aired in Pakistan on filmazia, dubbed in Urdu.\n\nThe first season premiered on November 24, 2014 on Channel Russia-1, and was released on Amazon in 2017 under the title Ekaterina: The Rise of Catherine the Great. The second season premiered on Russia-1 on 27 February 2017, and was released on Amazon in 2018.\n\nDuring the broadcast, the series held the top spot for film and television series ratings in Russia, and became one of the most popular TV series in Russian Federation. In September 2018, Marina Aleksandrova has confirmed on her Instagram account that they are currently filming a third season.\n\nIn 1745 in Saint Petersburg, Empress Elizabeth is childless, and she appoints her nephew Peter Fedorovich as the heir to Russian throne. But he had been born in Prussia, and could hardly speak Russian.\n\nElizabeth decides to marry him to a princess, intending to take any future son and educate him to become the future emperor. Elizabeth chooses a wife for her nephew, German Princess Sophie Friederike Auguste von Anhalt-Zerbst-Dornburg. Sophia Frederike is sent to a distant and foreign land hoping to find happiness, but is faced with the intrigues and plots of the Russian Imperial court, the indifference of her spouse, and the diabolical plans of the Empress. The girl takes the name Catherine Alexeevna (Yekaterina) and works to save herself and her children from deadly danger, as the emperor Peter III desires to send her away from the palace.\n\nIn July 1762, barely six months after becoming emperor, Peter commits the political error of retiring with his Holstein-born courtiers and relatives to Oranienbaum, leaving his wife in Saint Petersburg. On July 8 and 9, the Leib Guard revolts, deposes Peter from power, and proclaims Catherine as the new monarch. The bloodless coup d'état succeeds and Catherine becomes the new empress, and thus the Catherinian Era and the Golden Age of the Russian Empire begins.\n\nThe series has received praise for its acting and costume design, and the first season won Russia's Golden Eagle award for 'best television series'. A review at Eclectic Pop described it as \"a vivid and beautifully crafted series replete with lavish costumes and a stirring musical score\". Writing for Broadway World, Robert Kahn described the series as \"gloriously filmed\" and added that: \"The story of Catherine's rise to power rivals any contemporary soap opera, as an intricate web of politics, adultery and betrayal unfolds within the Russian court in spectacular fashion.\" Russia Insider wrote that the \"production level is really first rate, reflecting great depth of talent and experience in Russian film-making\".\n\nSeason one, with English subtitles and reformatted into ten episodes, was released by Amazon Prime in June 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47152876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152876", "title": "Endorsements in the Greek bailout referendum, 2015", "text": "Endorsements in the Greek bailout referendum, 2015\n\nDuring the Greek bailout referendum, 2015 a number of newspapers, individuals, politicians, political parties and organisations in Greece, Europe and internationally issued endorsements for either 'NO' to accepting the Troika bailout terms or 'YES'.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is the official list of endorsements by political parties as it was released by the Ministry of Interior:\n\n\n\nApart from the parties listed above, the Communist Party of Greece called for the use of a write-in ballot option, \"even if they say that it is a spoiled ballot\". The Communist Party of Greece (Marxist-Leninist) and the Marxist-Leninist Communist Party of Greece ran a joint campaign for a boycott of the vote. The Organization for the Reconstruction of the Communist Party of Greece also called for a boycott of the vote, calling it a 'fascist farce'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12770170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12770170", "title": "Fall of Harran", "text": "Fall of Harran\n\nThe Fall of Harran refers to the Median and Babylonian siege and capture of the Assyrian city of Harran in 610 BC.\n\nThe Assyrians, from the year 639 BCE, had been suffering from a decline in their power, culminating in Neo-Babylonian and Median invasions of their lands. The city of Arrapha fell in 615 BCE, followed by Assur in 614 BCE, and finally the famed Nineveh, the newest capital of Assyria, in 612 BCE. Despite the brutal massacres that followed, the Assyrians survived as a political entity and escaped to Harran under their new king, Ashur-uballit II. Establishing Harran as a capital for the Assyrians caught the attention of the Babylonian King Nabopolassar and Median King Cyaxares, who were determined to destroy forever the threat of Assyrian resurgence.\n\nAssyrian annals record no more after 610 BC - the presumed date of the siege. The siege lasted for another year before the city finally fell in 609 BC. Not much is known of the siege - it is presumed that Ashur-uballit II was killed in the battle.\n\nAfter this last reverse, the Assyrian empire does not exist as a state, remnants of the former Assyrian empire's army met up with the Egyptian forces that had won at Megiddo. In 605 BC, the Babylonians were again successful, as they defeated Egyptians along with part of the army of the former Assyria at Carchemish, ending the Egyptian intervention in the Near East.\n"}
{"id": "637634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637634", "title": "Film Fun", "text": "Film Fun\n\nFilm Fun was a British celebrity comics comic book that ran from (issues dates) 17 January 1920 to 15 September 1962, when it merged with \"Buster\", a total of 2225 issues. There were also annuals in the forties and fifties. It was renamed \"Film Fun and Thrills\" in 1959. As the title suggests, the comic mainly featured comic strip versions of people from films from the 1920s to the 1960s. Pre-war circulation at its peak was around 800,000 copies per week.\n\nThe cover of the first edition featured Harold Lloyd but named as \"Winkle\", the screen name by which he was known in Britain at the time.\n\nFrederick George Cordwell was better known to \"Film Fun\" fans as Eddie the Happy Editor. Cordwell edited the comic until his death in 1949, aged 62 in Richmond, Surrey. Cordwell wrote many scripts for the strips as well as text stories for \"Film Fun\". He introduced the idea of characters receiving huge plates of bangers and mash, giant Christmas puddings, pies and such from grateful beneficiaries of their efforts. Cordwell even made it into the stories himself, meeting Laurel and Hardy a number of times, Joe E Brown, Wheeler and Woolsey and other characters.\n\n\"Picture Fun\" merged with \"Film Fun\" soon after its launch in 1920, followed by \"Kinema Comic\" in 1932, \"Film Picture Stories\" in 1935, \"Illustrated Chips\" in 1953 and \"Top Spot\" in 1960. In 1962, sales of \"Film Fun\" dropped below 125,000 a week, prompting IPC to merge the comic with \"Buster\".\n\nApart from Laurel and Hardy, \"Film Fun\" used to feature many film and stage comedians of that era like Charlie Chaplin, Abbot and Costello, Buster Keaton, Ben Turpin, Jackie Coogan, Fatty Arbuckle, Joe E. Brown, George Formby, Wheeler & Woolsey, Max Miller, Lupino Lane, Red Skelton, Harold Lloyd (named \"Winkle\" in those days), W.C. Fields, Terry-Thomas, Sid Field, Frank Randle, Morecambe & Wise, James Cagney, Tony Hancock, Sid James, The Goon Show, Frankie Howerd, Tommy Cooper, Martin & Lewis, Arthur Lucan (in his drag role as Old Mother Riley) and Bruce Forsyth. There would also be serialised cowboy films featuring stars like Roy Rogers and Gene Autry. There were also detective stories featuring a fictional detective named Jack Keen.\n\n"}
{"id": "3022840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3022840", "title": "Garsington Opera", "text": "Garsington Opera\n\nGarsington Opera is an annual summer opera festival founded in 1989 by Leonard Ingrams. For 21 years it was held in the gardens of Ingrams's home at Garsington Manor in Oxfordshire. Since 2011 the festival is held in Wormsley Park, the home of the Getty family near Stokenchurch in Buckinghamshire, England. After Ingrams's death in 2005 Anthony Whitworth-Jones became its General Director until 2013 when Douglas Boyd became Artistic Director.\n\nA characteristic feature of Garsington Opera's programming has been the combination of well known operas with discoveries of little known works. These have included the British premieres of Richard Strauss' \"Die ägyptische Helena\", Rossini's \"La gazzetta\" and \"L'equivoco stravagante\", and Vivaldi's \"L'incoronazione di Dario\". The festival also gave the first British professional productions of Haydn's \"La vera costanza\", Strauss' \"Die Liebe der Danae\", Janáček's \"Šárka\", and Tchaikovsky's \"Cherevichki\".\n\nPerformances take place in the specially designed seasonal Opera Pavilion from within which it is possible to view the surrounding landscape. This maintains the link with the outside, a tradition at Garsington Opera. The performances begin in the early evening, allowing for a long dinner during the interval, similar to Glyndebourne Festival Opera, and evening dress is suggested. Operas are often performed in their original language with English surtitles. In 2017 the Philharmonia Orchestra became a resident orchestra at the Festival, playing for one production per season, with the Garsington Opera Orchestra continuing to play three productions per year.\n\nIn 1982, financier Leonard Ingrams (brother of Richard Ingrams, the founder of \"Private Eye\") and his wife Rosalind bought Garsington Manor and soon realised the opportunities it offered for outdoor performance. The family became well known for organising this annual season of opera in the manor gardens.\n\nGarsington Manor saw its opera first performance in 1989 when Opera 80 performed \"Le nozze di Figaro\" in aid of the Oxford Playhouse. The success of the performance led to the founding of Garsington Opera soon afterwards by Leonard Ingrams. In 1990, the company's first season comprised Mozart's \"Così fan tutte\" and the British premiere of Haydn's \"Orlando paladino\". Ingrams asked the Guildhall Strings to play for his new company, and within a few years Garsington Opera had its own orchestra whose core remained the Guildhall Strings. Within four years, Garsington Opera started staging three different productions of different operas. This format remains the same today. At the same time it began presenting complete four-week seasons on its own.\n\nIngrams also used the barn at Garsington Manor for an annual series of chamber music concerts. He installed into the barn the panelling from the old auditorium at Glyndebourne which was then being thrown out when the new auditorium at Glyndebourne was built. The barn was also used as the restaurant during the opera season, and opera guests could dine in it during the interval. The operas were performed on the stone loggia which overlooks the seried flower garden, designed and planted by Lady Ottoline Morrell when she owned the Manor during and after the First World War and entertained her famous Bloomsbury guests there e.g. T.S. Eliot, Virginia Woolf, Betrand Russell, W.B.Yeats. \n\nAs demand for the opera rapidly grew Ingrams commissioned a purpose-built auditorium seating around 500 people by project architect Robin Snell. The auditorium was noted for its natural acoustic and good sight-lines. The stage was partly covered by a PVC fabric canopy completed in 1995 but was open to the gardens behind. Each year at the end of the season the entire edifice was dismantled and the fabric returned to Architen Landrell, the canopy's designers, for maintenance and storage.\n\nSound-proofing screens were later erected around the theatre in response to complaints from a group of Garsington residents living near the Manor. In 1996, they won £1,000 compensation for noise disturbance caused by the operas. When the award was overturned on appeal, local resident Monica Waud led her neighbours in a civil disobedience campaign during the 1997 performance of Haydn's \"Le Pescatrici\". The protesters simultaneously began cutting their lawns with electric lawnmowers and diesel tractors, trimming their hedges, and turning on their hoses. Car alarms were set off and as a grand finale a private plane piloted by Miss Waud's companion flew overhead. In 2001 the protesters tried unsuccessfully to use the Human Rights Act to block Garsington Opera performances, claiming that they denied them the right to the \"peaceful enjoyment of their possessions\". The South Oxfordshire environmental health service undertook in-house monitoring of opera performances in each season from 2000 through 2005, but on each occasion concluded that there was no statutory noise nuisance.\n\nLeonard Ingrams died from a heart attack on 27 July 2005 at the age of 63. In November of that year, Garsington Opera announced that it would continue, following the appointment of Anthony Whitworth-Jones as General Director. Rosalind Ingrams (Leonard's widow) became President. Anthony Whitworth-Jones had been General Director of the Glyndebourne Festival Opera from 1989 to 1998 and of the Dallas Opera from 2000 to 2002. Whitworth-Jones noted that \"under Leonard Ingrams' passionate leadership, (it) has established a reputation for musical excellence, the presentation of some fascinating operatic rarities and the promotion of young singers. I will try to uphold and develop this tradition\". In 2006 Leonard's pre-planned and pre-cast repertoire was overseen by Anthony Whitworth-Jones during his first year as artistic director, and the company performed Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Mayskaja Noch\", Donizetti's \"Don Pasquale\", and \"Der Stein der Weisen\" (\"The Philosopher's Stone\"), a collaborative work by Emanuel Schikaneder, Mozart, and other members of Mozart's circle. In 2007, the Metropolitan Opera in New York staged Garsington's production of \"Die agyptische Helena\", which Leonard Ingrams had put on in 1997. In April 2008, when it became clear that the opera needed more space, the Ingrams family gave notice that the Manor would not be able to host performances after the 2010 season, although the family would continue its support for the company.\n\nGarsington Opera announced in April 2010 that it had reached agreement with the Getty family to hold the opera festival at Wormsley Park. The company's new performing space is a 600-seat pavilion, which like that at Garsington Manor is designed to be put up and dismantled each season. The first season at Wormsley Park saw the performance of Vivaldi's \"La verità in cimento\" in its British premiere, Mozart's \"The Magic Flute\" and Rossini's \"Il turco in Italia\". The company is now financed by The Friends of Garsington Opera, corporate and private sponsorship, and the support of foundations.\n\nThe 2011 Garsington Opera Pavilion is a fully demountable fabric building used for only 6 weeks of the year.\n\nAmongst the notable singers who have performed with the company are Susan Chilcott (The Countess in \"Le nozze di Figaro\", 1993 ) Susan Bullock (Helena in \"Die ägyptische Helena\", 1997) Yvonne Kenny (Christine in \"Intermezzo\", 2001) Matthew Rose (Osmin in \"Die Entführung aus dem Serail\", 2013) Lesley Garrett (Despina in \"Così fan tutte\", 2015) Toby Spence (Idomeneo in \"Idomeneo\", 2016) Roderick Williams (Eugene Onegin in \"Eugene Onegin\", 2016) and Miah Persson (Countess in \"Capriccio\", 2018). Conductors include David Parry, Ivor Bolton, Jane Glover, Jac van Steen, Richard Farnes and the founder of Grange Park Opera, Wasfi Kani. In addition to conducting Garsington Opera performances, Kani also served as the company's Assistant Director from 1993 to 1998.\n\nWhile several productions of operas in the standard repertory are given, those which are rarely given or are national premieres etc. are included here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21402010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21402010", "title": "Global financial crisis in October 2008", "text": "Global financial crisis in October 2008\n\nThe policy response to the subprime crisis started in earnest after Lehman’s failure in mid September 2008, accelerated after February 2009, and had become very large by September 2009. Governments have relied on a portfolio of intervention tools, but the biggest commitments and outlays have been in the form of debt and asset guarantees, while purchases of bad assets have been very limited. Announcements directed at the banking system as a whole (general) and at specific banks (specific) were priced by the markets. General announcements tend to be associated with positive returns and specific announcements with negative ones. Moreover, general announcements exert cross-country spillovers but are perceived by the home-country banks as subsidies boosting the competitive advantage of foreign banks. Specific announcements exert spillovers on other banks.\n\nThe United States Senate's version of the $700 billion bailout plan, HR1424, modified to expand bank deposit guarantees to $250,000 and to include $100 billion in tax breaks for businesses and alternative energy, passed with bi-partisan support 74-25 on October 1. Reaction in the House was mixed, but in a vote on Friday the House of Representatives passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as refashioned by the Senate, 263-171 in a bipartisan vote.\n\nDiscussions were ongoing in Europe regarding possible remedies for financial instability in Europe leading up to a conference Saturday afternoon in Paris hosted by Nicolas Sarkozy, president of France. UniCredit of Italy was reported to be the latest bank to come under pressure. During the night of October 2 Greece followed Ireland's lead and guaranteed all bank deposits.\n\nOn October 3 it was reported that Wachovia had rejected the previous offer from Citigroup in favor of acquisition by Wells Fargo, resulting in a legal dispute with Citigroup.\n\nIn Britain, the Financial Services Authority announced on October 3 that effective Tuesday, October 7, the amount of the guarantee of bank deposits would be raised to £50,000 from £35,000. On Friday, October 3, the government of the Netherlands took over the Dutch operations of Fortis, replacing the bailout plan of September 28.\n\nOver the weekend and on Monday a major banking and financial crisis emerged in Iceland with its currency the krona, dropping 30% against the euro. At a meeting on Monday night emergency legislation was passed granting broad powers to the government to seize and regulate banks. The Landsbanki and Glitnir were seized, while Kaupthing was subjected to a rescue plan.\n\nOn October 6, the Icelandic Financial Supervisory Authority decided temporarily to suspend from trading on regulated markets all financial instruments issued by Glitnir banki hf., Kaupþing banki hf., Landsbanki Íslands hf., Straumur-Burðarás fjárfestingarbanki hf., Spron hf., and Exista hf.\n\nBefore the opening of the business day, October 6. BNP Paribas, the French bank, assumed control of the remaining assets of Fortis following Dutch nationalization of the operations of the bank in The Netherlands. Denmark, Austria, and possibly Germany, joined Ireland and Greece in guaranteeing bank deposits on Monday, October 6. Following this, the FTSE100 index of leading British shares had its largest one-day points fall since it was established in 1984. A banking Bill easing rescues is slated for introduction in the British Parliament on Tuesday, October 7. On October 6, German chancellor Angela Merkel pledged that the government would guarantee all German private bank savings. The government also announced a revised bailout plan for German mortgage lender Hypo Real Estate (HRE). On Monday, October 6, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed below 10,000, a drop of 30% from its high above 14,000 a year earlier on October 9, 2007. In Brazil and Russia trading was suspended on Monday following dramatic drops in their markets.\n\nOn October 7, the Icelandic Financial Supervisory Authority took control of Landsbanki. On the same day, the Central Bank of Iceland announced that Russia had agreed to provide a €4 billion loan, however this was soon denied by Russian authorities, and the Icelandic Finance Minister had to correct the earlier announcement and now stated that discussions had been initiated with Russia on providing a loan to Iceland. This was also denied by Russian Deputy Finance Minister Anton G. Siluanov. Late in the evening, however, Russia's Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin did concede that a request had been received, to which Russia was positive, and that discussions on financial matters would be conducted later in the week when an Icelandic delegation was expected to arrive in Moscow. Standard & Poor's also cut Iceland's foreign-currency sovereign credit rating from A-/A-2 to BBB/A-3 and local-currency sovereign credit rating from A+/A-1 to BBB+/A-2. S&P also lowered Iceland's banking industry country risk assessment from group 5 to group 8, worrying that \"In a severe recession scenario, the cumulative amount of nonperforming and restructured loans could reach 35% to 50% of total outstanding loans in Iceland.\n\nOn October 7 the Federal reserve announced formation of a Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) which will serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term commercial paper by eligible issuers. Several countries announced new or increased deposit guarantees: Taiwan outlined plans to double the guarantee to NT$3 million ($92,000) and the European Union agreed to increase guarantees across the EU to at least €50,000 per saver. Several EU states then announced increases on top of this minimum: Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, and Greece each announced they would guarantee up to €100,000.\n\nThe government of Britain announced on the morning of Wednesday, October 8 that it would make £25 billion available as \"Tier 1 capital\" (preference share capital or \"PIBS\" [Permanent Interest-Bearing Securities]) to the following financial institutions: Abbey, Barclays, HBOS, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB, Nationwide Building Society, Royal Bank of Scotland, and Standard Chartered as part of a bank rescue package. An additional £25 billion was scheduled to be made available to other financial institutions, including British subsidiaries of foreign banks. \"In reviewing these applications the Government will give due regard to an institution's role in the UK banking system and the overall economy\". The plan included increased ability to borrow from the government, offered assistance in raising equity, and a statement of support for international efforts. The plan has been described as partial nationalization. The crisis was very severe; according to the BBC's Robert Peston on 22 December after interviewing government and banking leaders \"For me, what stood out when interviewing this quartet was the revelation about how Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS were—in October—only hours away from being unable to open for business\".\n\nOn Wednesday, October 8, the European Central Bank, Bank of England, Federal Reserve, Bank of Canada, Swedish Riksbank and Swiss National Bank all announced simultaneous cuts of 0.5% to their base rates at 11:00 UTC. Shortly afterwards, the Central Bank of the People's Republic of China also cut interest rates. On October 8 there were sharp losses on stock markets worldwide with a loss of over 9% in Japan. Trading was suspended in Russia and Indonesia after steep morning losses. In the United States, following the funds cut by the Federal Reserve, stocks were volatile, finishing down. On October 8 the Federal Reserve loaned AIG $37.8 billion, in addition to the previous loan of $85 billion.\n\nOn Wednesday night, October 8, the Central Bank of Iceland abandoned its attempt to peg the Icelandic króna at 131 króna to the euro after trying to set this peg on Monday, October 6. By Thursday October 9, the Icelandic króna was trading at 340 to the euro when the government suspended all trade in the currency.\n\nOn Thursday, October 9, the Icelandic Financial Supervisory Authority took control of the country's biggest bank Kaupþing banki hf.. This occurred when the Kaupthing Board resigned and asked the national authorities to take control. This came about when \"Britain transferred control of the business of Kaupthing Edge, its Internet bank, to ING Direct and put Kaupthing's UK operations into administration\" placing Kaupthing in technical default according to loan agreements. This marked an escalating row between Iceland and the United Kingdom over the growing crisis. All trade was also suspended on the Iceland Stock Exchange until Monday October 13.\n\nOn Thursday, October 9, the one-year anniversary of the Dow's peak, the cost of short term credit rose while there were heavy losses in the United States stock market; the Dow dropped below 8600, reaching a five-year low. It was the first time since August 2003 that the Dow closed below 9000; losses were moderate in Europe. The following day, Friday, October 10, there were large losses in Asian and European markets Yamato Life filed for bankruptcy. Beset by falling commodities prices, Russia's stock markets remained closed on October 10. The Russian Parliament passed a plan authorizing lending of $36 billion gained from global oil sales to banks which met creditworthiness requirements. Special attention is being paid to shoring up Rosselkhozbank, the bank which provides credit to the reviving agricultural sector. The amount of funds available is limited due to falling oil prices. The government of the United States, as authorized by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, announced plans to infuse funds into banks by purchasing equity interests in them, in effect, partial nationalization, as done in Britain. The Treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. met Friday in Washington with world financial leaders. A meeting of international financial leaders hosted by President Bush at the White House in Washington is planned on Saturday to attempt to coordinate global response to the financial crisis. The annual meetings of both the International Monetary Fund and World Bank was scheduled to be held in Washington over that weekend.\n\nOn Friday, October 10, stock markets crashed across Europe and Asia. London, Paris and Frankfurt dropped 10% within an hour of trading and again when Wall Street opened for trading. Global markets have experienced their worst weeks since 1987 and some indices, S&P 500, since the Wall Street Crash of 1929.\n\nOn October 10, within the first five minutes of the trading session on Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 697 points, falling below 7900 to its lowest level since March 17, 2003. Later in the afternoon, the Dow made violent swings back and forth across the breakeven line, toppling as much as 600 points and rising 322 points. The Dow ended the day losing only 128 points, or 1.49%. Trading on New York Stock Exchange closed for the week with the Dow at 8,451, down 1,874 points, or 18% for the week, and after 8 days of losses, 40% down from its record high October 9, 2007. Trading on Friday was marked by extreme volatility with a steep loss in the first few minutes followed by a rise into positive territory, closing down at the end of the day. In S&P100 some financial corporate showing signals upwards also. President George W. Bush reassured investors that the government will solve the financial crisis gripping world economies.\n\nThe bonds of the bankrupt Lehman Brothers were auctioned on Friday, October 10. They sold for a little over 8 cents on the dollar. Many of the bonds of Lehman Brothers were insured with credit default swaps. Apprehension that payments to the holders of Lehman bonds might severely damage the firms or hedge funds which issued the swaps proved unfounded, despite anticipated claims estimated to be several hundred billion dollars, as countervailing claims canceled each other out resulting in only 5.2 billion dollars changing hands.\n\nAs meetings proceeded with global financial leaders in Washington on Saturday, October 11, the United States government announced a change in emphasis in its rescue efforts from buying illiquid assets to recapitalizing banks, including strong banks, in exchange for preferred equity; and purchase of mortgages by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These remedies can be put into effect quicker than the prior plan which was estimated to take a month to set into operation.\n\nOn Sunday the British government was in negotiations with Royal Bank of Scotland, HBOS, Lloyds TSB and Barclays, major British banks, regarding recapitalization which would give the British government a substantial equity interest. An investment of more than 37 billion pounds was contemplated. Some purchases would be common stock with existing shareholders given a right of first refusal (the government would only purchase the shares if existing shareholders did not). Previously announced recapitalization plans contemplated only purchases of preferred equity without government participation in governance of the banks, however, as the financial emergency has rapidly developed, more aggressive measures are being advanced. On Sunday, October 12, European leaders, meeting in Paris, led by France and Germany, announced recapitalization plans for Europe's banks. Plans were announced to guarantee bank deposits for five years. European countries would finance their own rescue plans and tailor them to local conditions. Mechanisms are also planned to increase the availability of short term credit. The total rescue plan totaled €1 trillion. Australia and New Zealand also announced bank guarantee plans. On Monday, October 13, the markets were closed in Japan and the bond market was closed in the United States.\n\nOn Sunday, in Norway, which is not in the euro zone, the Norwegian cabinet in a hastily called press conference announced a US$57.4 billion (350 billion Norwegian kroner) plan of offering Norwegian banks new government bonds. This came three days ahead of Wednesday's hastened interest rate meeting at Norges Bank to decide whether or not to announce rate cuts similar to the coordinated cuts of October 8. Central bank Governor Svein Gjedrem also made critical comments about some of the measures that had been implemented already by other countries, among them the concerted rate cuts which he said \"was a strong card, which had a two-hour impact\". He further commented that \"It's important to be careful with measures – so that one addresses the problems one really faces,\" and he also emphasized that acting at the right time was important saying \"there are unusually many examples that show one can do too much too early.\" He cited the Icelandic government's takeover of banks as an example of quick action with no guarantee that the problems would be solved.\n\nThe G7 nations, at their meeting in Washington over the weekend pledged to \"support systemically important financial institutions and prevent their failure\". This decision is based on analysis of the consequences of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers which resulted in the loss of funds by other financial institutions. It is thought that those losses may have triggered a tightening of the credit crunch as banks ceased to lend to one another. No enforceable mechanism was created to support the pledge, but it is believed to extend to major firms such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.\n\nOn October 13 stock markets worldwide rose with the Dow Jones industrial average showing a 400-point leap at the start of trading. At the close of trading the average was up 936 points, a record climb, up 11%, closing above 9,000 at 9,387. After announcement in France of a 320 billion euro rescue and guarantee plan, French CAC40 rose by 11.18% within the day. Germany announced a €400 billion plan. On Monday the International Monetary Fund offered possible technical and financial aid to Hungary which has suffered during the crisis due to the flight of investors to euro, Swiss franc, and dollar denominated investments. As in the rest of the world, on Monday stock prices rose on the Hungarian exchange and pressure on the national currency, the forint eased. The forint has dropped 30% against the dollar since July.\nThe prime minister of Spain, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, announced that Spain would provide up to €100 billion of guarantees for new debt issued by commercial banks in 2008. This plan followed a meeting at the eurozone summit over the weekend to try to develop a coordinated effort to combat the credit crisis. The UK government started the nationalization process by injecting £37 billion in the nation’s three largest banks. The UK government would end up owning a majority share in the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and over a 40% share in Lloyds and HBOS. In return for the bailout, the banks agreed to cancel dividend payments until the loans are repaid, have board members appointed by the Treasury, and limit executive pay. The European Central Bank attempted to revive credit market by weekly injections of unlimited euro funds at an interest rate of 3.75%. The ECB president, Jean-Claude Trichet, was also contemplating relaxing the collateral standards to make the funds more accessible to banks. Following its European partners, Italy pledged to intervene as necessary to prevent any bank failures in its country. Finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, said Italy would guarantee new bank bonds of up to 5 years until the end of 2009 and the Bank of Italy would provide €40 billion in treasury bills to banks to refinance inferior assets that can not be currently used as collateral. In coordination with other eurozone countries, the Dutch government announced that it would guarantee interbank lending up to €200 billion. This followed the set up of a €20 billion Dutch fund to help recapitalize banks and insurers.\n\nOn Tuesday the United States announced a plan to take an equity interest of $250 billion in US banks with 25 billion going to each of the four largest banks. The 9 largest banks in the US: Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Bank of New York Mellon and State Street were called into a meeting on Monday morning and pressured to sign; all eventually agreed. The plan will be open to any bank for 30 days. The equity interests purchased by the government are preferred shares that pay 5% but rise to 9% after 5 years; it is expected that the companies will repurchase this interest when they can raise private capital to do so. The plan also includes an option allowing the government to purchase common stock according to a formula which could return substantial profit to the taxpayers should the stock price of the companies substantially appreciate. The total liability assumed is $2.25 trillion including a $1.5 trillion guarantee of new senior debt issued by banks and a $500 billion guarantee of deposits in noninterest-bearing accounts (business accounts used to pay current obligations such as payroll). The theory is that with additional capitalization and the guarantees, banks will be willing to resume a normal lending pattern with each other and borrowers.\n\nAlso on that day, United Arab Emirates’ (UAE) ministry of finance added a $19 billion liquidity injection to domestic banks bringing the total dollars injected to $32.7 billion. The UAE central bank offered 13.6 billion in liquidity to help domestic banks in September. To protect local deposits, the UAE government guaranteed all deposits and interbank lending. Japan announced a plan that will help steady the Japanese market and avoid the worse of the credit crisis. Among the measures included are lifting restrictions on companies buying back their shares, strengthening disclosure on short selling, and the temporary suspension of the sale of government-owned stocks. The Australian government unveiled a $10.4 billion stimulus package. The Economic Security Strategy is designed to help pensioners, low and middle income families, and first time home buyers withstand the credit crisis and global economic slowdown. This followed the Australian government announcing that it would guarantee all bank deposits for three years, guarantee all term wholesaling funding by Australian banks in international markets and double its planned purchase of residential mortgage backed securities. The Icelandic stock exchange began trading again after a three-day shutdown. The opening did not include Iceland’s three largest banks which were nationalized last week.\n\nOn Wednesday, October 15, the London stock exchange FTSE 100 fell substantially, surrendering over 314 points to slip down 7.16 percent. The losses precipitated more losses in the U.S., as the Dow Jones Industrial Average suffered its largest drop in terms of percentage since 1987, falling over 733 points. The NASDAQ plunged almost eight and a half percent, and the Standard & Poor collapsed down over nine percent.\n\nOn October 16, a rescue plan was announced for the Swiss banks UBS and Credit Suisse. Recapitalization involved Swiss government funds, private investors, and the sovereign wealth fund of Qatar. A Swiss agency was set up to purchase and workout toxic funds. UBS had suffered substantial withdrawals by domestic Swiss depositors but still reported profits; Credit Suisse has reported losses. Most large banks in the United States continued to report large losses.\n\nFollowing a conference at Camp David over the weekend of October 18 and 19th attended by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, President George W. Bush announced on Wednesday, October 22 that he would host an international conference of financial leaders on November 15 in Washington, D.C. Participants would be drawn from both the developed world and the developing world, including participants from the G20 industrial nations such as India, Brazil and China.\n\nOn Sunday, October 19 the government of the Netherlands bailed out ING, the Dutch bank, with a €10 billion capital rescue plan. On Monday the government of Belgium rescued the insurance company Ethias with a €1.5 billion capital injection. In Germany BayernLB has decided to apply for funds from the German €500 billion rescue program. Sweden announced formation of a 1.5 trillion kronor fund to support inter-bank lending and a 15 billion kronor capital injection plan. Swedish banks were reported to be increasingly affected by the financial crisis. An IMF rescue plan for Iceland was reported to be near finalization while Ukraine was reported to be in discussions with the IMF. Iceland was reported to have also received assistance from Denmark and Norway while Britain has offered a loan to support compensation of British depositors in failed Icelandic bank Landsbanki. On Monday France announced a €10.5 billion rescue plan for six of its largest banks, including Crédit Agricole, BNP and Société Générale.\n\nDespite some improvement in the availability of credit, stock markets and weak currencies such as the British pound and the euro continued to decline worldwide during the week of October 19. Markets across Asia suffered particularly heavy losses while European markets experienced substantial losses too, but to a lesser extent compared to those in Asia. The Dow Industrials Index, on the other hand, experienced a week of extreme volatility with violent swings both upwards and downwards, eventually ending lower. The yen and the dollar showed particular strength with the yen rising with respect to the dollar. This \"flight to quality\" had baleful effects on the economies of all nations including the United States and Japan. On Wednesday, Pakistan joined Iceland, Hungary, Serbia and Ukraine and requested aid from the International Monetary Fund in dealing with severe balance of payments difficulties. Hungary, Russia, Ukraine, Pakistan, Turkey, South Africa, Argentina, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria were all experiencing financial difficulties with others threatened. These countries did not hold securities based on subprime mortgages, but were affected by inability to borrow money, the credit crisis. Plans are under discussion to increase credit available to the IMF, perhaps to a trillion dollars.\n\nOn Friday, October 24, stock markets plummeted worldwide amidst growing fears among investors that a deep global recession is imminent if not already settled in. The panic was partly fueled by remarks made by Alan Greenspan that the crisis is \"a once-in-a-century credit tsunami\" and by comments made by Gordon Brown during a speech, admitting essentially that Great Britain is already in recession mode. Following the trend, the US stock markets also fell sharply on opening and ended with the Dow Industrial Index down 312 points. Friday and Saturday (October 24 and 25) the 7th Asia-Europe Meeting was held in Beijing with the European Union meeting Asian states in an attempt to discuss a common approach ahead of the Emergency International Meeting that is scheduled to take place in Washington on November 15. No specific recommendations to solve the crisis were developed.\n\nOn Sunday, October 26, Hungary and Ukraine made tentative arrangements with the International Monetary Fund for emergency aid packages. In Poland the value of stocks has fallen 50% for the year and the zloty, the Polish currency, has fallen against both the dollar and the euro. The crisis has affected South Africa, Brazil and Turkey. South Africa was particularly affected by a dramatic drop in the price of platinum, a commodity used in automobile manufacturing. In addition to Iceland, Ukraine and Hungary, Belarus and Pakistan were also engaged in emergency discussions with the IMF. Pakistan had what was described as a \"growing balance of payments crisis\". In the Gulf states, impacted by the falling price of oil and a drop in equities prices of 40% for the year, the Gulf Cooperation Council met in Riyadh on Saturday to discuss a coordinated response to the crisis.\n\nOn Monday, October 27, Hong Kong stocks crashed, losing more than 12% of their value while in Japan, the Nikkei 225 Index plummeted by 6.4% to its lowest level since 1982. European stock markets showed mixed results. After suffering an initial drop, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was in slightly positive territory for much of the trading day but eventually closed down 203 points. Oil futures continued to decline and the yen continued to rise against all other currencies. There was consideration given by both the G7 and the Japanese government to take measures to support other currencies as against the yen.\n\nIn a second round of recapitalization, the U.S. Treasury funded 22 banks with 38 billion dollars. The list of banks aided was confidential, but some banks including BB&T, Capital One, SunTrust Banks, City National Corporation, Comerica, First Niagara Bank, Huntington Bancshares, Northern Trust, State Street Corporation, UCBH Holdings, First Horizon National Corporation, PNC Financial Services (buyer of the National City Corporation), Regions Financial Corporation, Valley National Bancorp KeyBank, and Washington Federal Savings said they would receive government money. Fifth Third Bank announced that they would apply. Criteria for funding was based on the strength of the bank with stronger banks with higher CAMELS ratings having a greater chance of being offered aid. The American Bankers Association stated that due to restrictions on salaries and payment of dividends that some U.S. banks may not participate. Another concern was that acceptance of the recapitalization plan might give a false signal that a bank was troubled. (A TARP oversight report by GAO, published December 2008, listed a total of 44 banks participating in the Treasury's $250bn \"Capital Purchase Program\" initiative.\n\nOn Tuesday, October 28, stocks rose dramatically worldwide in anticipation of rate cuts by central banks. In the U.S. the Dow Industrial Average rose 10.8%, closing at over 9000. On Wednesday, October 29, markets in the U.S. closed down slightly despite announcement by the Federal Open Market Committee of a reduction in the federal funds rate 50 points to 1 percent Markets in the U.S. were up Thursday and Friday, closing up for the week, cutting losses to the Dow Industrial Average during October to 17%, down 30% for the year.\n\nIn Russia, the $50 billion rescue program administered by the state development bank Vnesheconombank (VEB) is assisting Russian firms controlled by Russian oligarchs who gave ownership of portions of their companies as security for loans from Western financial institutions. Recipients include Oleg Deripaska of Rusal owner of Norilsk Nickel and Mikhail Fridman of Alfa Group whose assets VimpelCom and TNK-BP were threatened.\n\nIn Asia, Japan announced its second economic stimulus plan of $51 billion on Thursday, October 30. Hong Kong and Taiwan cut interest rates while an interest cut to .3% was announced by the Bank of Japan on Friday. Also on Thursday the Federal Reserve\nestablished a $30 billion currency swap line with South Korea and Singapore as well as Brazil and Mexico.\n\nJPMorgan Chase, the largest bank in the United States, announced that it would work with homeowners who demonstrate a willingness to pay their mortgages by reducing interest payments or principal. Counseling centers are planned for troubled areas. Washington Mutual, and EMC Mortgage Corporation, a loan servicing company, acquired by JPMorgan, will be included. Bank of America has announced a similar program, as has Countrywide Financial as the result of a court settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "53676634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53676634", "title": "Great Fire of 1660", "text": "Great Fire of 1660\n\nTwo thirds of Istanbul was destroyed in the Great Fire of 1660. The chronicler Abdi Paşa estimated that the fire destroyed 280,000 houses and burned for approximately forty-nine hours.\n\nDuring the reconstruction of the city, the Ottomans enacted unprecedented policies concerning Christian and Jewish houses of worship. In previous periods, the Ottomans had usually allowed the rebuilding of churches and synagogues. However, in this period they applied Islamic laws prohibiting reconstruction.\n\nOn July 24, 1660, there was a great fire in Istanbul. It destroyed two thirds of the city. Seven synagugues and at least 25 churches burned to the ground. Contemporary sources have written that thousands of homes were caught in the blaze. The fire began west of Eminönü and destroyed densely populated neighborhoods with old-fashioned wooden homes. Abdi Paşa tells us that the fire \"marched across the city like an invading army.\" Contemporary sources estimate that 280,000 homes were destroyed and 40,000 lives were lost in the conflagration.\n\nMarc David Baer has written that imperial mosques in the Ottoman Empire marked the boundaries of Ottoman territory and supported political and hegemonic interests.\n\nThe Yeni Valide Mosque or New Mosque project had started while Mehmed IIIs mother, Safiye Sultan, was Valide Sultan of the Ottoman Empire, but the project was abandoned for several decades after her death. Construction of the site's foundation had initially started on land that had been taken from the non-Muslims in the area of Eminönü in Istanbul, but they had started to return to nearby areas. The imperial family remained uninterested in completing the New Mosque project until the fire destroyed the entire area between Unkapanı and Eminönü in 1660, after which the non-Muslim population was once again deprived of their properties. When the government began to rebuild the city a ban was issued forbidding the reconstruction of churches and synagogues.\n\nThe young Grand Vizier Köprülü Fazıl Ahmed invited the Kadizadeli preacher Vani Mehmet Efendi to Istanbul. Upon Vani's advice, the sultan forbade consumption of tobacco, coffee and alcohol and insisted on strict enforcement of Islamic law. He destroyed Sufi tombs and either exiled or executed Sufi leaders.\n\nVani claimed that the disproportionate destruction of Jewish property in the Great Fire was a sign of divine displeasure. He supported legislation barring them from returning to the area. Köprülü Fazıl Ahmed confiscated all the lands where synagogues had stood and auctioned them. Non-Muslims were forbidden from bidding on the properties. Turhan Sultan sponsored the construction of the New Mosque. It opened in 1665 and Vani Mehmet Efendi became its first preacher.\n\nAfter a time, Christians were allowed to buy back the land where churches had stood and rebuild them. The rebuilt churches were officially listed as residential buildings.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "40658172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40658172", "title": "Greenpeace Arctic Sunrise ship case", "text": "Greenpeace Arctic Sunrise ship case\n\nAfter Greenpeace activists attempted to scale the Prirazlomnaya drilling platform on 18 September 2013, as part of a protest against Arctic oil production, Russian authorities seized the Greenpeace ship the \"Arctic Sunrise\" in international waters in the Russian Exclusive Economic Zone on 19 September 2013, arrested the crew at gunpoint, towed the ship to Murmansk, and detained the crew of 28 activists and two freelance journalists.\nThe Investigative Committee of Russia opened a criminal investigation, charging the activists initially with piracy and later with hooliganism.\nSince the \"Arctic Sunrise\" was flying the Dutch flag, the Netherlands filed a case at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS case 22) which argued (and obtained ruling) the release of the crew and ship until both parties can resolve the conflict. Russia ignored the ITLOS ruling, but eventually released the crew as part of a general amnesty adopted by the State Duma after two months of detention.\nThe \"Arctic Sunrise\" itself was released from Russian detainment in June 2014.\n\nOn 11 August 2013, the Greenpeace ship \"Arctic Sunrise\" left the Norwegian port of Kirkenes to begin a month-long expedition in the Arctic to protest against oil exploration in Arctic waters. The \"Arctic Sunrise\" sailed into the Barents Sea and was then refused permission three times by the Russian authorities to enter the Northern Sea Route although the refusal is in violation of international law including the right to freedom of navigation. On 23 August, Greenpeace ignored Russia's ban to protest state oil company Rosneft’s operations in the Arctic and entered the international waters of the Kara Sea. On 26 August, the \"Arctic Sunrise\" left the Northern Sea Route, after the Russian coastguard boarded the boat and threatened to use force if they would not leave the international waters of the Kara sea.\n\nOn 18 September 2013, four RHIB inflatables were launched from the \"Arctic Sunrise\" from its position in the Pechora Sea. The RHIBs carried Greenpeace activists and crew members towards Gazprom's Prirazlomnaya drilling platform. At the time of the action, the \"Arctic Sunrise\" tweeted \"We're going to try and stop the drilling.\", although subsequently Greenpeace have stated that their aim was to hang banners on the oil rig to call for an end to Arctic drilling. Two activists managed to attach themselves to the platform and attempted to climb, despite being blasted with water, while another activist tried unsuccessfully to become attached to the platform. The Russian coastguard fired warning shots from AK-74 rifles and four warning shots from a cannon on board the \"Ladoga\" coastal patrol vessel. The two activists were removed from the platform and held on board the coastguard vessel, although it was unclear whether or not they had been placed under arrest.\n\nOn 19 September, the day after the Prirazlomnaya protest, the Russian authorities forcibly took control of the \"Arctic Sunrise\", which was boarded from a helicopter by fifteen Federal Security Service officers in balaclavas, armed with guns and knives. At the time of the boarding, the \"Arctic Sunrise\" was in Russia's Exclusive Economic Zone but not within the safety zone around the oil rig, and permission was not sought to board it from the \"Arctic Sunrise\"'s flag state, the Netherlands. The captain was separated from the crew and brutally beaten, while other crew members and activists were held in the mess room. It is alleged that crew members and activists were brutally beaten, punched and kicked during the forced boarding.\n\nThe \"Arctic Sunrise\" was towed to the port of Murmansk. All of the 30 people on board were taken to a detention facility where they were brutally beaten and interrogated. In early October, the Leninsky District Court in Murmansk issued a warrant to arrest all 30 people. 22 were put in custody for two months pending an investigation and the other eight were detained for three days pending a new hearing. They were under investigation for piracy, which in Russia carries a maximum jail sentence of 15 years. On 23 October the charge of piracy was dropped and replaced by a charge for aggravated hooliganism with a maximum sentence of seven years. After they were transferred to Saint Petersburg on 12 November, the Kalininsky and Primorsky district courts released most of the people on bail, and the Murmansk Regional Court rejected an appeal against the arrests on 21 November.\n\nAccording to Phil Radford, Executive Director of Greenpeace in the U.S. at the time, the reaction of the Russian coast guard and courts were the \"stiffest response that Greenpeace has encountered from a government since the bombing of the \"Rainbow Warrior\" in 1985.\"\n\nThe detainees have been christened the \"Arctic 30\" by Greenpeace and the press. They include:\n\nCrew by nationality:\n\nActivists by nationality:\n\nNon-activists and journalists by nationality:\n\nOne of the jailed people is the award-winning Russian photographer Denis Sinyakov, whose jailing led to protests by the Russian Union of Journalists and the international group Reporters Without Borders. According to Alexei Simonov, head of Glasnost Defense Foundation, a Moscow-based rights group, Sinyakov was only covering the actions of Greenpeace activists in the Barents Sea and has nothing to do with the group's agenda, saying: \"The authorities violated all norms and laws by keeping Sinyakov in prison ... I must say it again and again that Russian justice system is designed by the Kremlin not to look for real culprits to be punished but to punish and scare those who don't suit the authorities.\" Sinyakov posted on his Facebook account an image of a hooded Russian coast guardsman pointing a handgun at the boat. When the first two activists were detained, Sinyakov wrote: \"I call upon you to join the struggle for freeing these activists, who sincerely see Arctic exploration as malignant.\" He was subsequently detained. The top trans-Atlantic security and rights group, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, also demanded Sinyakov's immediate release. Several Russian media outlets, including the lenta.ru site and a private but Kremlin-friendly national TV station, NTV, took all pictures off their websites in a show of solidarity with the jailed photographer. In Paris, a few dozen Greenpeace activists protested in front of the Russian Embassy on 27 September, waving banners with images of the incarcerated activists and the word \"FREE\" written over them. Up to 22 November, Russian court released all but one of the Greenpeace campaigners against bail (paid by Greenpeace) with the condition the campaigners could not leave Russia.\n\nAs flag state for the \"Arctic Sunrise\", the Netherlands asked for immediate release of the ship and shipmates to Dutch authorities. The Dutch government argues that since the ship was outside Russian territorial waters and outside the (500 meter) safety zone around the oil rig, it was in open sea, and hence outside Russian sovereign rights and jurisdiction. According to nautical law any actions against a ship in open sea can only be conducted after agreement with the flag state. Hence the Dutch take the position the capture of the \"Arctic Sunrise\" by Russia was not legal. After Russia did not release the ship the Netherlands filed a formal case to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea 21. October to order Russia to release a Greenpeace ship and the activists who were on board. However, Russian government announced that it will not participate in the hearings, pointing out that back in 1997, when it ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, it refused to acknowledge the settlement procedures, which result in mandatory decisions in disputes over sovereign rights and jurisdictions.\n\nNew Zealand Prime Minister John Key has raised the issue with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but says the Russian judicial process must run its course.\n\nEleven Nobel prize-winners have written to Vladimir Putin asking the Russian president to drop charges against Greenpeace activists and journalists.\n\nSix men broke in Greenpeace office in Murmansk and stole materials.\n\nOn 22 November 2013 the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea ruled that the campaigners and the ship should be immediately released, and should be allowed to leave the country, against a bail of 3.5 Million Euro.\nOn 14 August 2015 the international Permanent Court of Arbitration unanimously ruled that Russia had acted in breach of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and has to compensate the Dutch government (flag state of the ship) for damages to the ship. The tribunal ruled that actions of Greenpeace could not be labelled as piracy or hooliganism; reasons Russia had given for capturing the ship. Russia, a partner of the permanent court of arbitration, responded by stating it does not recognize the authority of the court in this case.\n\nAccording to Greenpeace, charges of piracy against peaceful activists have no merit in international law. Greenpeace rejected the suggestion of illegal drugs on the \"Arctic Sunrise\". Certain pharmaceutical drugs are kept in a safe. The Russian authorities broke the safe after they took the vessel.\n\nPhil Radford, executive director of Greenpeace USA, argues that the arrest of the Arctic 30 is the stiffest response that Greenpeace has encountered from a government since the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior by the French secret service in 1985.\n\nGreenpeace activists continue to call for governments to save the arctic, the original motivation for the protest.\n\nAccording to Dutch Greenpeace members, the condition of the Greenpeace ship worsened during its stay in Murmansk, as the Russian officials are not taking proper care of the vessel.\n\n11 Nobel peace laureates wrote to Putin, calling on him to drop the \"excessive\" charges of piracy: \n\nGerman chancellor Angela Merkel expressed concerns about the arrest of the Greenpeace activists to Vladimir Putin, and urged a swift resolution of the case.\n\nWilliam Hague, the foreign secretary UK, has been negotiating with Russian ministers over the fate of the six British nationals involved.\n\nAccording to Julia Marton-Lefevre, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature oil and gas exploring in the Arctic would have drastic consequences and the world should find low-carbon sources of energy.\n\nDamon Albarn of Blur showed a poster of Frank Hewetson during the band's concert in Santiago, Chile, on 7 November, asking for him to be freed.\n\nOn 24 December 2013, it was announced that the first of the detainees, Anthony Perrett, had been freed under the amnesty law passed by the Russian parliament, and that more would be freed and the charges against them dropped.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8872600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8872600", "title": "Gross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde", "text": "Gross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde\n\nGross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde is a 1997 play written by Moisés Kaufman. It deals with Oscar Wilde's three trials on the matter of his relationship with Lord Alfred Douglas and others, which led to charges of \"committing acts of gross indecency with other male persons\". The play uses real quotes and transcripts of the three trials.\n\nThe first trial was a private prosecution for criminal libel brought against Douglas's father the Marquess of Queensberry by Wilde himself (which he lost); the second and third were on the resulting criminal charges against Wilde, with the second reaching no verdict and the third resulting in a conviction and sentence to hard labour. \n\n\"Gross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde\" was staged Off-Broadway at the Greenwich House, and received two critically acclaimed stagings in Los Angeles: one at the Mark Taper Forum in 1998 and the other by director Susan Lee at the Eclectic Theatre in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "11261583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11261583", "title": "Honda Battle of the Bands", "text": "Honda Battle of the Bands\n\nThe Honda Battle of the Bands (sometimes abbreviated The Honda or HBOB) is an annual marching band exhibition in the United States which features performances by bands from historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). Sponsored by the American Honda Motor Company, the Invitational Showcase takes place in the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia in late January.\n\nThe Honda Battle of the Bands Celebration Tour takes place between the months of September and November at regular season football games, although Honda Battle of the Bands (and its abbreviations) is often intended to refer only to the invitational showcase, which first took place in 2003. Seemingly contradictory to the name, Honda's \"battle\" is not a competition in the traditional sense; that is, no winner is crowned during the event. Rather, the bands compete for the favor of the audience, each other, and the greater community. The 2016 event had a nearly sold out crowd with 63,000+ fans and spectators in attendance.\n\nThe Honda Battle of the Bands program includes two components — the Voting Process, which runs September through October, and the \"Honda Battle of the Bands Invitational Showcase\".\n\nVoting:\nThe first band will be selected by popular vote (i.e. the top overall vote-getter will be selected regardless of category).\nThe next three bands will be selected, one from each category by a weighted vote of 1/3 from institution president, band director and online opinion poll from category I, II and III. The categories being 128 instruments or less, 129 instruments up to 160 and 161 or more. This count is total instrument count, no auxiliaries, drum majors, etc. but will include percussion.\n\nNote: Presidents and Band Directors are not permitted to vote for their own institutions.\nAmerican Honda and Urban Sports & Entertainment Group will select the final four bands based on, but not limited to:\n\nOnce all the votes are tallied, a total of 8 bands are invited to perform their carefully choreographed, halftime time routines in front of 50,000+ fans.\n\nStarted in 2003, the Honda Battle of the Bands was created to celebrate, support and recognize the excellence of Black college marching bands and the unique academic experience offered by Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). Honda annually awards more than $205,000 in grants to participating marching bands during the program period and facilitates a HBCU recruitment fair preceding the band showcase.\n\nThe following HBCUs have participated in the Honda Invitational Showcase, with Bethune-Cookman University leading with thirteen appearances:\n\n"}
{"id": "1962277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962277", "title": "Hwang Woo-suk", "text": "Hwang Woo-suk\n\nHwang Woo-suk (, born January 29, 1953) is a South Korean veterinarian and researcher. He was a professor of theriogenology and biotechnology at Seoul National University (dismissed on March 20, 2006) who became infamous for fabricating a series of experiments, which appeared in high-profile journals, in the field of stem cell research. Until November 2005, he was considered one of the pioneering experts in the field, best known for two articles published in the journal \"Science\" in 2004 and 2005 where he reported he had succeeded in creating human embryonic stem cells by cloning. He was called the \"Pride of Korea\" in South Korea.\n\nSoon after the first paper was released, however, an article in the journal \"Nature\" charged Hwang with having committed ethical violations by using eggs from his graduate students and from the black market. Although he denied the charges at first, Hwang admitted the allegations were true in November 2005. Shortly after that his human cloning experiments were revealed to be fraudulent.\n\nOn May 12, 2006, Hwang was charged with embezzlement and bioethics law violations after it emerged much of his stem cell research had been faked. The \"Korea Times\" reported on June 10, 2007, that Seoul National University fired him, and the South Korean government canceled his financial support and barred him from engaging in stem cell research. While being charged with fraud and embezzlement, he has kept a relatively low profile at the Sooam Bioengineering Research Institute in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province, where he currently leads research efforts on creating cloned pig embryos and using them to make embryonic stem-cell lines.\n\nSince the controversy subsided, despite the history and his lost credibility as a scientist, Hwang's lab has been actively publishing manuscripts, many of which have appeared on PubMed, the online database for biomedical research. In February 2011, Hwang visited Libya as part of a $133 million project in the North African country to build a stem cell research center and transfer relevant technology. However, the project was canceled due to civil war.\n\nHwang was sentenced to a two years suspended prison sentence at the Seoul Central District Court on 26 October 2009, after being found guilty of embezzlement and bioethical violations but cleared of fraud. On this same day, CNN reported that the scientist in 2006 admitted faking his findings, after questions of impropriety had emerged. He had his conviction upheld on 15 December 2010 by an appeals court in South Korea, which resulted in his suspended sentence being reduced by 6 months. In 2014 the South Korean Supreme Court upheld its 2010 ruling.\n\nOn November 2015, a Chinese biotech company Boyalife Group announced that it will partner with Hwang’s laboratory, Sooam Biotech, to open the world's largest animal cloning factory in Tianjin as early as 2016. The factory will aim to produce up to one million cattle embryos per year to meet the increasing demand for quality beef in China.\n\nHwang first caught media attention in South Korea when he announced he successfully created a cloned dairy cow, \"Yeongrong-i\" in February 1999. His alleged success was touted as the fifth instance in the world in cow cloning, with a notable caveat: Hwang failed to provide scientifically verifiable data for the research, giving only media sessions and photo-ops. Hwang's next claim came only two months later in April 1999, when he announced the cloning of a Korean cow, \"Jin-i\", also without providing any scientifically verifiable data. Despite the notable absence of any of the scientific data needed to probe the validity of the research, Hwang's several claims were well received by the South Korean media and public, who were attracted by Hwang's claim of immeasurable economic prospect that his research was said to be promising. Until 2004, Hwang's main area of research remained in creating genetically modified livestock that included cows and pigs. During that period, Hwang claimed to have created a BSE-resistant cow (which has not been verified) and also stated his intention to clone a Siberian tiger.\n\nIn February 2004, Hwang and his team announced that they had successfully created an embryonic stem cell with the somatic cell nuclear transfer method, and published their paper in the March 12 issue of \"Science\". Although Hwang had already established himself as an expert in animal cloning and secured celebrity status in South Korea in the late 90s, his alleged sudden success came as a surprise because this was the first reported success in human somatic cell cloning. Until Hwang's claim, it was generally agreed that creating a human stem cell by cloning was next to impossible due to the complexity of primates. Hwang explained that his team used 242 eggs to create a single cell line.\n\nIn May, \"Nature\" magazine published an article stating that Hwang had used eggs taken from two of his graduate students, based on an interview with one of the students. The article raised the question of whether the students might have been pressured to give eggs and thus whether such a donation would have been \"voluntary\" as Hwang claimed in his scientific paper. At that time, Hwang denied that he had used his students' eggs.\n\nHwang's team announced an even greater achievement a year later in May 2005, and claimed they had created 11 human embryonic stem cells using 185 eggs. His work, published in the June 17 issue of \"Science\", was instantly hailed as a breakthrough in biotechnology because the cells were allegedly created with somatic cells from patients of different age and gender, while the stem cell of 2004 was created with eggs and somatic cells from a single female donor. This meant every patient could receive custom-made treatment with no immune reactions. In addition, Hwang's claim meant that his team had boosted their success rate by 14 times and that this technology could be medically viable.\n\nHwang made further headlines in May 2005 when he criticized U.S. President George W. Bush's policy on embryonic stem cell research. Also, Time magazine named Hwang one of its \"People Who Mattered 2004\", stating that Hwang \"has already proved that human cloning is no longer science fiction, but a fact of life.\"\n\nFollowing on the earlier success, on August 3, 2005, Hwang announced that his team of researchers had become the first team to successfully clone a dog, which has been independently verified through genetic testing. The dog, an Afghan Hound, was named \"Snuppy\".\n\nShortly after his groundbreaking 2005 work, Hwang was appointed to head the new World Stem Cell Hub, a facility that was to be the world's leading stem cell research centre. However, in November 2005, Gerald Schatten, a University of Pittsburgh researcher who had worked with Hwang for two years, made the surprise announcement that he had ceased his collaboration with Hwang. In an interview, Schatten commented that \"my decision is grounded solely on concerns regarding oocyte (egg) donations in Hwang's research reported in 2004.\" Following an intense media probe, Roh Sung-il, one of Hwang's close collaborators and head of \"MizMedi Women's Hospital\", held a news conference on November 21.\n\nDuring the conference Roh admitted that he had paid women US$1,400 each for donating their eggs, eggs that were later used in Hwang's research. However, Roh claimed Hwang was unaware of this, while the South Korean Ministry of Health assured that no laws or ethical guidelines had been breached as there were no commercial interests involved in this payout. Hwang maintained that he was unaware that these actions were happening during the research and he resigned from his post.\n\nOn November 22, \"PD Su-cheop\" (\"PD Notebook\"), a popular MBC investigative reporting show, raised the possibility of unethical conduct in the egg cell acquiring process. Despite the factual accuracy of the report, news media as well as people caught up in nationalistic fervor in their unwavering support for Hwang asserted that criticism of Hwang's work was \"unpatriotic\", so much so that the major companies who were sponsoring the show immediately withdrew their support.\n\nOn November 24, Hwang held a press conference in Seoul, in which he declared his intention of resigning from most of his official posts.\n\nHe also apologized for his actions. In the interview he said, \"I was blinded by work and my drive for achievement.\" He denied coercing his researchers into donating eggs and claimed that he found out about the situation only after it had occurred.\n\nHe added that he had lied about the source of the eggs donated to protect the privacy of his female researchers, and that he was not aware of the Declaration of Helsinki, which clearly enumerates his actions as a breach of ethical conduct.\n\nAfter the press conference, which was aired on all major South Korean television networks, most of the nation's media outlets, government ministries, and the public gave support to Hwang. Sympathy for Hwang poured out, resulting in an increase in the number of women who wanted to donate their eggs for Hwang's research.\n\nOn December 29, 2005, the university determined that all 11 of Hwang's stem cell lines were fabricated. The university announced on January 10, 2006, that Hwang's 2004 and 2005 papers on \"Science\" were both fabricated. Following on the confirmation of scientific misconduct, on January 11, \"Science\" retracted both of Hwang's papers on unconditional terms.\n\nOn January 12, 2006, Hwang held a press conference to apologize for the entire fiasco, but still did not admit to cheating. Instead, he explicitly put the blame on other members of his research project for having deceived him with false data and alleged a conspiracy, saying that his projects had been sabotaged and that there was theft of materials involved. He said that cloning human stem cells was possible and that he had the technology to do it, and if he were given six more months he could prove it. This is an extension of the ten days he said he needed to re-create the stem cells that he asked for back on December 16, 2005. Seoul prosecutors raided his home that day for files and evidence, to start a criminal investigation of Hwang.\n\nOn January 20, 2006, Hwang maintained that two of his 11 forged stem cell lines had been maliciously switched for cells from regular, not cloned, embryos. The allegation involves the lines Hwang claims to have created at Seoul-based MizMedi Hospital.\n\nIn November 22, 2016 Hwang received a certificate of patent on NT-1 technology by the Korean Intellectual Property Office.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the method that scientists used in cloning was somatic cell nuclear transfer, which is the same procedure that was used to create Dolly the sheep. This laboratory technique begins when an egg is taken from a donor and the nucleus is removed from the egg, creating an enucleated egg. A cell, which contains DNA, is then taken from the animal being cloned. The enucleated egg is then fused together with the nucleus of the cloning subject's cell using electricity. This creates an embryo, which is implanted into a surrogate mother through in vitro fertilization. If the procedure is successful, then the surrogate mother will give birth to a baby that is a clone of the cloning subject at the end of a normal gestation period. In 2014 researchers were reporting cloning success rates of seven to eight out of ten but in 1996 it took 277 attempts to create Dolly.\n\nHwang allegedly used this technique at his laboratory in SNU to clone dogs during his experiments throughout the early 2000s. He claimed that it was possible to clone mammals and that probability for success can be better than 1 in 277 attempts (as in similar cases such as Dolly). Hwang was the first in the world to clone a dog, an Afghan hound called Snuppy in 2005. He described his procedure for cloning in the journal \"Nature\". Researchers from the Seoul National University and the US National Institutes of Health confirmed that Snuppy was a clone. Since then Hwang and his associates have cloned many more dogs. In 2015 it was reported that Huang Woo-suk's company Sooam Biotech had produced 700 cloned puppies since 2005 with their owners paying about $100,000 each to have their dogs cloned.\n\nHwang's intention to develop better technique for cloning was focused on stem cells\nbecause they are still at an early stage of development and retain the potential to turn into many different types of cell and when they divide, each new cell has the potential to either remain a stem cell or become another type of cell with a more specialized function.\n\nAccording to stem cell biologists, it might be possible to harness this ability to turn stem cells into a super \"repair kit\" for the body, theoretically to use stem cells to generate healthy tissue to replace that either damaged by trauma or compromised by disease.\nThe many conditions and illnesses that may eventually be treated by stem cell therapy include Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, diabetes, burns, and spinal cord damage.\n\nIn March 2012, it was announced that Hwang would collaborate with Russian scientists in an attempt to clone a woolly mammoth from remains found in Siberia. He had previously successful cloned eight coyotes in March 2011 using domestic dogs as surrogate mothers and grey wolves. However finding a mammoth sample fit for cloning has been unsuccessful as of 2015.\n\nIn 2015 the Chinese company BoyaLife announced that in partnership with the Hwang Woo-suk's company Sooam Biotech, they were planning to build a 200 million RMB (about 32 million USD) factory in Tianjin, China to produce 100,000 cloned cattle per year, starting in 2016 to supply China's growing market for quality beef.\n\nIn 2015, Sooam Biotech cloned a male boxer puppy from a pet dog that had been dead for 12 days. This was the first time they had cloned a dog that had been dead for such a long time.\n\nIn 2016, Hwang's company was regularly cloning pigs which were genetically predisposed to certain diseases so that they could be used for testing pharmaceuticals and cloning cattle which were highly valued for their meat. In total Sooam Biotech was reported to be producing roughly 500 cloned embryos a day from various species. They were also reported to be attempting to clone the Ethiopian wolf, one of the world's rarest canids, of which there are only 500 in the wild, another endangered canid, the Dhole, of which there only about 2,500 adults and the Siberian musk deer which is classified as vulnerable by the IUCN.\n\nUntil late November 2005, Hwang was criticized only for unpublicized ethical violations. Colleagues and media outlets asserted that he had paid female donors for egg donations and that he had received donations from two junior researchers, both of which were violations. Later controversies would center around scientific misconduct.\n\nHis team, which cloned the first human embryo to use for research, said they had used the same technology to create batches of embryonic stem cells from nine patients. According to Hwang, the result was much more efficient than they had hoped.\nHwang's integrity as a researcher was again put in doubt when it was revealed that \"PD Su-cheop\" scheduled a follow-up report questioning his achievement published in \"Science\" in June 2005, which stated he had cloned 11 lines of embryonic stem cells. This caused furious backlash among many South Koreans, and the reaction only intensified when it was discovered that Kim Sun-Jong, one of Hwang's researchers from MizMedi, was coerced by illegal means to testify against Hwang. As a result, the scheduled broadcast was canceled and the network even made a public apology to the nation, everyone more or less operating under the assumption that the show was at fault and not Hwang. Yet, other news outlets began to question Hwang's claims.\n\nClose scrutiny revealed that several of the photos of purportedly different cells were in fact photos of the same cell. Hwang responded that these additional photos were accidentally included and that there was no such duplication in the original submission to \"Science\". This was later confirmed by the journal.\n\nResearchers raised questions about striking similarities between the DNA profiles of the cloned cells. Then collaborator Gerald Schatten asked \"Science\" to remove his name from the paper, stating as a reason that there were \"allegations from someone involved with the experiments that certain elements of the report may be fabricated.\"\n\nIn the midst of national confusion, Hwang disappeared from public sight, to be hospitalized days later for alleged stress-related fatigue, while public opinion gradually began to turn against Hwang with even the major Korean companies who pulled their support from \"PD Su-Cheop\" reportedly now less than pleased with Hwang. Days later, Hwang started going to his laboratory while requesting Seoul National University to officially conduct a probe to the allegations surrounding him.\n\nThe scandal took a dramatic turn on December 15, when Roh Sung-il, who collaborated on that paper, stated to media outlets that nine of those eleven lines had been faked; specifically, DNA tests illustrated that those nine lines shared identical DNA, implying that they had come from the same source. Roh stated that \"Professor Hwang admitted to fabrication\", and that he, Hwang, and another co–author had asked \"Science\" to withdraw the paper. Adding fuel to the fire, MBC broadcast the content of the canceled \"PD Su-cheop\" show, which substantiated Roh's claim.\n\nOn the same day, The Seattle Times reported that \"Science\" had not yet received an official request from Hwang to withdraw the paper, and it had refused to remove Schatten's name from the paper, stating, \"No single author, having declared at the time of submission his full and complete confidence in the contents of the paper, can retract his name unilaterally, after publication.\"\n\nSeveral prominent scientists, including Ian Wilmut, who cloned Dolly the sheep in 1996, and Bob Lanza, a cloning expert based in Worcester, Massachusetts, did call on Hwang to submit his paper to an outside group for independent analysis. Lanza noted, \"You can't fake the results if they're carried out by an independent group. I think this simple test could put the charges to rest.\"\n\nTwo major press conferences were held on Korean networks on December 16, one with Hwang followed by the other with his former colleague, Roh Sung-il. Hwang started his press conference by claiming that the technology to make stem cells exists, which is not an explicit statement that the stem cell lines he featured in his paper to \"Science\" were not fakes. He, however, acknowledged the falsifications of research data in the paper, attributing them to unrecoverable \"artificial mistakes.\" He said that there was a problem with the original lines caused by contamination, and if he were given ten more days he could re-create the stem cell lines. He accused Dr. Kim Sun-Jong, a former collaborator, of \"switching\" some of the stem cell lines.\n\nDespite Hwang's claim, in another press conference held only minutes later, Roh Sung-il rebutted Hwang's accusation, saying Hwang was blackmailing MizMedi and Kim Sun-jong. He maintained that at least nine of the eleven stem cell lines were fakes and that Hwang is simply untrustworthy.\n\n\"Roh Sung-il, chairman of the board at Mizmedi Hospital, told KBS television that Hwang had agreed to ask the journal Science to withdraw the paper, published in June to international acclaim. Roh was one of the co-authors of the article that detailed how individual stem cell colonies were created for 11 patients through cloning. Roh also told MBC television that Hwang had pressured a former scientist at his lab to fake data to make it look like there were 11 stem cell colonies. In a separate report, a former researcher told MBC that Hwang ordered him to fabricate photos to make it appear there were 11 separate colonies from only three. [...] University of Pittsburgh researcher Gerald Schatten has already asked that Science remove him as the senior author of the report, citing questions about the paper's accuracy. Seoul National University announced this week it would conduct an internal probe into Hwang's research.\"\n\nSome scientists have started questioning Hwang's earlier work published in \"Science\" in February 2004 in which he claimed to have cloned embryonic stem cells. Maria Biotech head Park Se-pill said, \"Up until now, I have believed Hwang did derive cloned embryonic stem cells although he admitted to misconduct in his follow-up paper on patient-specific stem cells...Now, I am not sure whether the cloned stem cell really existed.\"\n\nOn July 26, 2006, Hwang said in testimony that he spent part of 500 million won in private donations in attempts to clone extinct Russian mammoths and Korean tigers.\n\nAn internal panel was set up in Seoul National University to investigate the allegation, and the probe was started on December 17, 2005. The panel sealed off Hwang's laboratory and conducted a thorough investigation, collecting testimonies from Hwang, Roh and other people that were involved with the scandal. On December 23, the panel announced its initial finding that Hwang had intentionally fabricated stem cell research results creating nine fake cell lines out of eleven, and added that the validity of two remaining cell lines is yet to be confirmed. The panel stated that Hwang's misconduct is \"a grave act damaging the foundation of science.\" Hwang's claim of having used only 185 eggs to create stem cell lines was also denied by the panel, which indicated that more eggs may have been used in the research process.\n\nThe panel announced additional findings on December 29, and confirmed that there are no patient-matched embryonic stem cells in existence and that Hwang's team doesn't have the scientific data to prove any of the stem cells have ever been made.\n\nIn its final report published on January 10, 2006, the panel reaffirmed its previous findings while announcing additional discoveries. The panel found out that, contrary to Hwang's claim of having used 185 eggs for his team's 2005 paper, at least 273 eggs were shown to have been used according to research records kept in Hwang's lab. In addition, the panel discovered that Hwang's team was supplied with 2,061 eggs in the period of November 28, 2002 to December 8, 2005. Hwang's claim of not having known about the donation of eggs by his own female researchers was also denied by the panel; in fact, it was discovered that Hwang himself had distributed egg donation consent forms to his researchers and personally escorted one to the MizMedi Hospital to perform the egg extraction procedure.\n\nThe panel stated that Hwang's 2004 Science paper was also fabricated and decided the stem cell discussed in the paper may have been generated by a case of parthenogenetic process (which is itself a significant development, as mammals rarely reproduce by parthenogenesis; in addition, this would make Hwang's lab the first ever to successfully generate human stem cells via parthenogenesis, predating other research facilities' successes). Although Hwang's team didn't rule out the possibility of parthenogenetic process in the paper, the panel said, his team didn't make any conscientious effort to probe the possibility through the tests available.\n\nChung Myunghee, the head of the panel, said at a news conference that the panel is not in a position to investigate Hwang's claim of his stem cells having been switched with MizMedi's, but added that such a claim is incomprehensible when there is no data to prove any of the stem cells were ever made to begin with.\n\nThe panel, in conclusion, stated that Hwang's team intentionally fabricated the data in both the 2004 and the 2005 papers and that it is \"an act of deception targeted to both scientific community and general public.\" However, the panel confirmed that Hwang's team actually succeeded in cloning a dog they named Snuppy. (See also \"Nature\" 439:122-123)\n\nOn December 23, 2005 Hwang apologized for \"creating a shock and a disappointment\" and announced that he was resigning his position as professor at the university. However, Hwang maintained that patient-matched stem cell technology remains in South Korea, and his countrymen shall see it.\n\nSeoul National University said Hwang's resignation request will not be accepted, citing a university regulation that dictates an employee under investigation may not resign from a post. This regulation is effected to prevent premature resignations by investigated employees, which would allow them to avoid full retributions according to the findings of the investigation (and perhaps avoid involuntary termination), while reaping the benefits of the more honorable and lucrative voluntary resignation.\n\nOn February 9, 2006, the university suspended Hwang's position as the university's professor, together with six other faculty members who participated in Hwang's team. Subsequently, Hwang was dismissed from the university on March 20, 2006.\n\nOn May 12, 2006, Hwang was indicted on charges of fraud, embezzlement and breach of the country's bioethics law, without physical detention. Prosecutors also brought fraud charges against the three stem cell researchers. He embezzled 2.8 billion won ($3 million) out of some 40 billion won in research funds for personal purposes and the illegal purchase of ova used in his experiments.\n\nThe prosecution also said Hwang's three associates involved in his stem cell research, Yoon Hyun-soo, Lee Byeong-chun and Kang Sung-keun, also misappropriated tens of millions of won in research money. Investigators have been tracking 24.6 billion won to find out how the research money was spent. It was part of Hwang's 36.9 billion won research funds raised through state support and private donations. Investigators said Hwang used bank accounts held by relatives and subordinates in 2002 and 2003 to receive about 475 million won from private organizations. He allegedly laundered the money by withdrawing it all in cash, breaking it up into smaller amounts and putting it back in various bank accounts. Hwang also withdrew 140 million won in August 2001 to buy gifts for his sponsors, including politicians and other prominent social figures, before Chusok holidays, according to prosecutors. He also allegedly misappropriated around 26 million won in research funds in September 2004 to buy a car for his wife. Hwang is suspected of embezzling 600 million won, provided by a private foundation, on multiple occasions from 2001 to 2005 for personal use. Prosecutors are also accusing him of illegally paying some 38 million won to 25 women who provided ova for his research through Hanna Women's Clinic in the first eight months of 2005. They also said Hwang gave several dozen politicians about 55 million won in political funds on numerous occasions from 2001 to 2005. He allegedly provided 14 million won to executives of large companies that provided financial support for his research. The prosecution added Hwang wired about 200 million won to a Korean American, identified only as Kang, in September 2005 and received the equivalent amount in U.S. currency from him when the scientist visited the United States two months later. Also in 2005, Hwang received one billion won each in research funds from SK Group and the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation based on his fabricated stem cell research results. Meanwhile, investigators said Lee Byeong-chun and Kang Sung-keun, both professors of veterinary science at Seoul National University, embezzled about 300 million won and 100 million won each in state funds by inflating research-related expenses. Yoon Hyun-soo, a biology professor at Hanyang University, also embezzled 58 million won from the research fund managed by MizMedi Hospital.\n\nOn August 2, 2007, after much independent investigation, it was revealed that Hwang's team succeeded in extracting cells from eggs that had undergone parthenogenesis. Hwang claimed he and his team had extracted stem cells from cloned human embryos. However, further examination of the cells' chromosomes shows the same indicators of parthenogenesis in those extracted stem cells as are found in the mice created by Tokyo scientists in 2004. Although Hwang deceived the world about being the first to create artificially cloned human embryos, he did contribute a major breakthrough to the field of stem cell research. The process may offer a way for creating stem cells that are genetically matched to a particular woman for the treatment of degenerative diseases.\n\nThe news of the breakthrough came just a month after an announcement from the International Stem Cell Corporation (ISC), a California-based stem cell research company, that they had successfully created the first human embryos through parthenogenesis. Although the actual results of Hwang's work were just published, those embryos were created by him and his team before February 2004, when the fabricated cloning results were announced, which would make them the first to successfully perform the process. Jeffrey Janus, president and director of research for ISC, agrees that \"Dr. Hwang's cells have characteristics found in parthenogenetic cells\" but remains cautious, saying \"it needs more study.\"\n\nAfter having acquired a celebrity status in South Korea, Hwang actively sought to establish every possible tie to political and economic institutions in the country. Hwang especially tried to win favor from the Roh Moo-hyun government, which in turn was suffering from a lack of popular support and wanted to demonstrate its competency by creating and promoting an exemplary policy success.\n\nHwang approached Park Ki-young, a former biology professor, then appointed as the Information, Science and Technology Advisor for the President, and put her as one of the co-authors in his 2004 \"Science\" paper. Ties with Park yielded a favorable environment for Hwang in the government, as a non-official group consisting of high-ranking government officials was created to support Hwang's research that includes not only Hwang and Park, but also Kim Byung-joon, Chief National Policy Secretary, and Jin Dae-je, Information and Communications Minister. The group was dubbed as \"Hwang-kum-pak-chui\", a loose acronym made from each member's family names, which means \"golden bat\" in Korean.\n\nAfter Hwang's paper was published in \"Science\" in 2005, support for Hwang came in full swing. In June 2005, the Ministry of Science and Technology selected Hwang as the first recipient of the title Supreme Scientist, an honor worth US$15 million. Hwang, having already claimed the title of POSCO Chair Professor worth US$1.5 million, secured more than US$27 million worth of support in that year.\n\nPresident Roh had been acquainted with Hwang since 2003, and made a number of comments intended to protect Hwang from potential bioethical issues. On June 18, 2004, Roh awarded Hwang a medal and said, \"it is not possible nor desirable to prohibit research, just because there are concerns that it may lead to a direction that is deemed unethical.\" In another instance at the opening of World Stem Cell Hub on October 19, 2005, Roh remarked, \"politicians have a responsibility to manage bioethical controversies not to get in the way of this outstanding research and progress.\"\n\nOn December 5, 2005, after \"PD Su-cheop\" stirred a national controversy, Cheong Wa Dae reaffirmed its unflinching support for Hwang and his research team. Roh said, \"We'll continue to support Professor Hwang. We hope he will return to his research lab soon for the sake of people with physical difficulties and the public\", according to presidential spokesman Kim Man-soo.\n\nWhile implying the controversies over MBC-TV's forceful methods used to gather information from Hwang's former junior staff members, Roh said, \"The disputes will be resolved gradually and naturally through following scientific research and study. We hope the ongoing disputes over Hwang's achievement will be settled without further trouble.\"\n\nIt was alleged that advisor Park Ki-young deliberately avoided to report Roh about details of Hwang's allegation for misconduct, while emphasizing a breach of journalist ethics by MBC. Park, after weeks of silence for her role in the controversy, announced her intent to resign from the advisor post on January 10, 2006.\n\nOn January 11, 2006, the national post office stopped selling post stamps commemorating Hwang's research. The title of Supreme Scientist awarded to Hwang was revoked on March 21, 2006, after Hwang was dismissed from Seoul National University the day before.\n\nOn December 6, 2005 a group of 43 lawmakers from the ruling and opposition parties inaugurated a body to support Hwang Woo-suk. Members of the group, dubbed the \"lawmakers' group supporting Professor Hwang Woo-suk\", pledged to help Hwang continue his experiments in pursuit of a scientific breakthrough.\n\n\"There are many lawmakers who, regardless of party affiliation, want to support Hwang. We will join forces to help Hwang devote himself to his studies\", Rep. Kwon Sun-taik of the ruling Uri Party said in a news conference at the National Assembly, who was also the leader of the group.\n\nHe said the group will seek to establish bioethics guidelines and come up with supporting measures for biotechnology researchers in the country. Among those who have joined the group were Reps. Kim Hyuk-kyu, Kim Young-choon and Kim Sung-gon of the ruling party, Kim Hyong-o of the main opposition Grand National Party (GNP) and Kim Hak-won, chairman of the United Liberal Democrats.\n\nSome female lawmakers participated in a civic group for voluntary egg donations for therapeutic research, which opened in November 2005 following the egg procurement scandal.\n\nReps. Song Young-sun and Chin Soo-hee of the GNP said they would provide their eggs to Hwang’s research team. Meanwhile, the ruling and opposition parties called on the Korean Broadcasting Commission to thoroughly investigate the staffers of MBCs PD Notebook, which broadcast a documentary program critical of Hwang with coercive tactics in interviews, and reprimand them.\n\nAfter most of Hwang's claims were confirmed fake on January 10, 2006, some lawmakers revealed that Hwang made several campaign donations to them and other lawmakers.\n\nThe investigative journalism show MBC \"PD Notebook\" (Korean: PD수첩) returned on air on January 3, 2006, and summarized the course of Hwang's scandal to date. The show had been cancelled under pressure after it aired its show on November 22 that accused Hwang of oddities in his research. The last show in 2005, aired on November 29, covered other topics. It remained off the air for five weeks. The second show in 2006, on January 10, dealt further with the Hwang affair, focusing on several instances of Hwang's media spinning tactics. It also covered the unwillingness on the part of a significant part of the public in South Korea to believe that someone who had almost achieved a status of a national hero committed such a shame.\n\nThe same day many South Korean citizens rallied outside Hwang's laboratory; as more than 1,000 women pledged to donate their eggs for the scientist's research. [ ... ] Hwang has been in seclusion since apologizing in November 2005, for ethical lapses in human egg procurement for his research. The symbolic event was as a gesture from Hwang's supporters that says they intend to donate their eggs with 1,000 of their members after they took egg-donation pledges online via their website. \"Dr. Hwang will not be able to return to the lab, at least, until at the end of this week because he is extremely exhausted, mentally and physically\", a key team member, Ahn Cu Rie, wrote in an e-mail to Reuters. [ ... ] At Hwang's lab at Seoul National University, women left bouquets of the national flower, a hibiscus called the Rose of Sharon, for the scientist along with notes of encouragement.\n\nThe stem cell research center that Hwang led before resigning said it hoped he would return, even though his lapses could hurt its efforts to work with other research institutions.\n\n\"So far more than 700 South Korean women have pledged to donate their eggs and the number is steadily rising\", said Lee Sun-min, an official at a private foundation launched last week to promote egg donations. [ ... ] Thousands of patients have applied to participate in the research, hoping the technology could help treat damaged spinal cords or diseases such as Parkinson's. On Tuesday, an official at the lab said it was hoped that Hwang would return.\n\n\"We're waiting for Hwang to assume the leadership after some rest\", Seong Myong-hoon told a news conference. But Seong said the controversy could hurt the lab. That conclusion was reached after one of Hwang's close research partners, Ahn Cu-rie, returned Tuesday after a 10-day trip to meet with scientists in the United States and Japan, Seong said.\n\n\"The reaction of foreign scientists was that they understand what Dr. Hwang disclosed, but they cannot accept that without criticism\", Seong said. \"We can never be optimistic about cooperation with foreign institutions.\"\n\nSeong added: \"Researchers of our country were newly awakened to the fact that we have to take every precaution to ensure we don't fall behind international ethics (guidelines) while researching.\"\n\n\"The only hope for us is Dr. Hwang. Don't trample on our one shred of hope\", a woman whose son suffers from a severe kidney ailment told South Korean broadcaster YTN at the university. The woman also pledged to sell her eggs to Hwang.\n\nHundreds of South Koreans have offered to donate eggs for stem cell research in a show of support for cloning pioneer Hwang Woo-Suk despite his admitted ethical breaches.\n\nA website backed by Hwang's supporters began taking egg-donation pledges online since late November 2005 after Hwang resigned all his official posts at World Stem Cell Hub, relaying them to a clinic linked to Hwang's research team. The number of pledges had reached 725 by early December 2005.\n\nBanners like \"Please come back, Doctor Hwang. I'm already dying to see you, Professor Hwang\", were put up on the homepage.\n\nThe site also carried a photo of Hwang and his cloned dog, Snuppy, trimmed with images of the rose of sharon, South Korea's national flower, in an apparent appeal for patriotism. The national anthem played as background music.\n\nThose who applied to donate ova included those with incurable illnesses or their family members, who hope that Hwang's research will eventually lead to cures, as well as just ordinary young, healthy women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49224583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49224583", "title": "Indonesia International Auto Show", "text": "Indonesia International Auto Show\n\nThe Gaikindo Indonesia International Auto Show (GIIAS) is Indonesia's largest auto show. It was spun off from the Indonesia International Motor Show since 2015. The name of the show was announced on 10 February 2015. GIIAS is participated by 34 car brands and commercial vehicles from Indonesia’s Authorized Brand Holders, all of which are 25 passenger car brands; Audi, BMW, Chevrolet, Daihatsu, Datsun, Ford, Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lexus, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, MINI, Mitsubishi Motors, Nissan, Porsche, Renault, Smart, Suzuki, Tata Motors, Toyota, VW; and two brands from a reseller company who will be bringing Aston Martin & McLaren; as well as 9 commercial vehicle brands; FAW, Hino, Isuzu, Iveco, Maxus, Mitsubishi FUSO, Tata Motors, Toyota Trucks, UD Trucks and in total of more than 350 exhibitors will be participating in this exhibition.\n\nEstablished in 1986, the Gaikindo Car Exhibition, hosted by Gaikindo was Indonesia’s largest automotive exhibition. In 2006, the exhibition reached a new platform by becoming an international-scale exhibition endorsed by Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles (OICA) and changed its name to Indonesia International Motor Show.\n\nIn 1986, the first automotive exhibition hosted by GAIKINDO under the name of GAIKINDO Car Exhibition and was participated by 13 GAIKINDO members. In 1989 the exhibition changed its name to Jakarta Auto Expo.\n1994 after being postponed for two years due to the government’s tight money policy, Jakarta Auto Expo was back and in 1996 the exhibition reached a record-breaking achievement compared to the previous years, attended by more than 200,000 visitors\n\nIn 2000, Jakarta Auto Expo changed its name to Gaikindo Auto Expo after being postponed for 3 years in a row due to Asian Financial Crisis. In 2003, The 12th Gaikindo Auto Expo held on 19-27 July 2003, participated by 150 automotive-related companies, and covered 35,000 sqm of Jakarta Convention Center (JCC), and visited by 180.000 visitors. In 2006, the exhibition was listed as part of the world’s automotive exhibition, endorsed by OICA (Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d’Automobiles) and the exhibition changed its name to Indonesia International Motor Show. In 2008 The exhibition covered 40.000sqm of JCC, indoor and outdoor, participated by 161 exhibitors and visited by 206.100 visitors\n\nIn attempt to remain progressive, in 2009, the exhibition moved to a bigger venue: Jakarta International Expo-Kemayoran, which covered area around 60,000 sqm, participated by 163 exhibitors and visited by 241.687 visitors. Furthermore, after a remarkable success on the previous year, In 2014, the exhibition was utilising more than 80,000 sqm, participated by 322 exhibitors and visited by 380.365 visitors, the exhibition was in urgent need of more extensive area.\n\nThe 2015 show held on 20-30 August 2015. Unlike the Indonesia International Motor Show, the Gaikindo Indonesia International Auto Show (GIIAS) is organized by Seven Events and held at Indonesia Convention Exhibition. The 2015 show debuts the Honda BR-V prototype, facelifted first generation Suzuki Ertiga, third generation Toyota Alphard Hybrid and eighth generation Toyota Hilux.\n\nThe 2016 show held on 11-21 August 2016. The 2016 show debuts the Daihatsu Sigra and Toyota Calya, third generation Kia Grand Sedona, fourth generation Kia Sportage and second generation Suzuki SX4 S-Cross.\n\nThe 2017 show held on 10-20 August 2017. The 2017 show debuts the Mitsubishi Xpander (world premiere), fifth generation Honda Civic Type R, second generation Mazda CX-5, second generation Mazda CX-9, fourth generation Suzuki Baleno and facelifted third generation Toyota Voxy. GIIAS 2017 were visited by more than 460 thousand visitors.\n\n\nThe 2018 show held on 2-12 August 2018. The 2018 show debuts the second generation Honda Brio (world premiere), facelifted second generation Honda HR-V, fourth generation Hyundai Santa Fe, facelifted third generation Mazda6 and Nissan Terra.\n"}
{"id": "33945130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33945130", "title": "Jack Reiter", "text": "Jack Reiter\n\nJack Reiter (3 March 1921 – 29 October 1999) was a United States Air Force colonel, lawyer and businessman.\n\nHe was born in New York State, and excelled at sports winning championships in boxing and swimming. He later attended New York University where he received a law degree.\nHe had an interest in flying and during World War II Colonel Reiter served as a B-24 Liberator Consolidated B-24 Liberator pilot in the United States Army Air Forces, flying over North Africa and Italy. He was shot down over Foggia in Italy in 1943 and taken prisoner by the Germans. He was sent to an Italian prison hospital as he had dislocated both his thighs on landing.\n\nHe later escaped from the hospital before his legs were properly mended when he learned he was being moved to Germany. He had managed to get fairly fit, but his thighs were still partly dislocated. He lived with the partisans (Garibaldi Brigade Romagna under Riccardo Fedel) in the Apennines for some months. He joined up with a group of British officers who had escaped from Castello di Vincigliata prison PG 12 camp during the Italian Armistice in September 1943. They included Brigadier ‘Rudolf’ Vaughan, Lieutenant-Colonel John Combe, Brigadier ‘Ted’ Todhunter, Captain Guy Ruggles-Brise and Lieutenant ‘Dan’ Ranfurly. In March 1944 with the help of Italian guides they walked 250 mile across the mountains to keep a rendezvous with agents on the coast. The travelling was difficult through snow, and the efforts of ‘Rudolph’ Vaughan with his game leg and Jack Reiter with his dislocated thighs became an inspiration to them all.\nThe eventually reached the coast and after unexpected delays found a fishing boat laid up on the sands. Jack and Dan Ranfurly found a mast whilst others secured a rudder and oars. In May they sailed the leaking boat about seventy miles along the coast just past the front line and were taken in tow by a passing Italian fishing boat into Ortona Harbour. After he returned to the United States, he put his experience to use by training military personnel in escape and survival techniques behind enemy lines.\n\nColonel Reiter was later posted by the Air Force to Italy and as a senior briefing officer to General Curtis LeMay at Strategic Air Command headquarters. After leaving the Air Force in 1968, Reiter became a member of the Air Force Association and Army Navy Country Club in Arlington, Virginia. He was vice president for government affairs for World Airways and the Washington representative for Flying Tigers International and Japan Airlines. He served as president of the Aero Club of Washington in 1976.\n\nHe died at the age of 78 and was survived by his wife Helen N. Reiter and two children, Allan James Reiter and Kathleen N. Ausley.\n\n"}
{"id": "3875367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875367", "title": "John Spano", "text": "John Spano\n\nJohn Angelo Spano Jr. (born May 31, 1964) is an American businessman and admitted fraudster. He is best known for briefly buying control of the New York Islanders franchise of the National Hockey League (NHL) in 1996, before it emerged that he did not have nearly enough assets to buy the team. He subsequently pleaded guilty to bank and wire fraud and served a federal prison sentence.\n\nSpano was originally from the Greenwich Village (Manhattan, in New York City), but spent most of his life in Madison, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, and graduated from Ashtabula St. John High School. He graduated from Duquesne University with a degree in business administration in 1986. After working several sales jobs in Pittsburgh and Dallas, he founded the Bison Group in 1990. It was a Dallas-based company that primarily leased aircraft.\n\nOn September 1995, he reached a tentative agreement to buy a 50 percent interest in the Dallas Stars, but the date for the closing was pushed back several times, during which Spano began making what owner Norman Green called unreasonable demands. Green backed out of the deal in November, eventually selling the team to Tom Hicks. Years later, Jim Lites, the Stars' president at the time, recalled visiting Spano's mansion in the Dallas suburb of University Park. Despite Spano's claimed wealth, Lites said the house was unfurnished. Among the \"laughable\" excuses Spano offered were a written agreement with the team's top minor league affiliate, the Kalamazoo Wings and a request to have his South African partners meet with Stars officials. Lites also said that Spano insisted that Lites pick up the tab for their dinners—something Lites said he'd never seen in all of his years as a sports executive.\n\nSpano also made an abortive bid for the Florida Panthers that year.\n\nIn October 1996, Spano agreed to buy the Islanders from longtime owner John Pickett for $165 million: $80 million for Pickett's 90 percent stake in the team and $85 million for its lucrative cable television contract with SportsChannel New York, which at the time earned the Islanders $13 million a year. He later agreed to buy the remaining 10 percent of the team held by the management group that had been running the Islanders' day-to-day operations since 1989.\n\nSpano billed himself as the owner of a leasing operation that he'd built from one company with four employees to a group of 10 companies with 6,000 employees worldwide in just six years. He claimed to be worth $230 million largely based on money inherited from his wealthy grandfather Angelo. He claimed to own his University Park house free and clear; the house was supposedly worth $3 million.\n\nPickett and NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman thought that Spano would be a lifesaver for the Islanders. The once-proud franchise, best known for their meteoric rise from also-ran to four-time Stanley Cup champions, had missed the playoffs in five of the last eight years. They had also been suffering at the gate, and rumors abounded that they were about to move to Atlanta, Nashville or Houston. Spano promised to keep the team on Long Island and either renovate, rebuild or replace the aging Nassau Coliseum. He paid for the team at signing with a loan from a syndicate of banks headed by Fleet Bank. He and Pickett agreed to a five-year installment package for the cable rights, and the league's other owners approved the sale in February 1997.\n\nThe first $16.5 million payment on the cable rights was due on April 7. The money wasn't there that day, but Spano promised Pickett it would be made, showing him a letter from Lloyds Bank in London promising that the money would be wired out. This was enough to satisfy Pickett, and he closed the deal.\n\nEven before the deal closed, Spano pumped $2.5 million into the team's payroll and forced head coach/general manager Mike Milbury to give his coach's role to Rick Bowness. He also let it be known that he intended to be a major player in the free-agent market.\n\nHowever, when the NHL's Board of Governors met in June 1997, Spano was conspicuously absent. Instead, the Islanders were represented by two men from the Pickett regime. It emerged that Spano had only paid $26,200 to Pickett for the cable rights after five attempts. On one attempt, he'd wired Pickett only $5,000 instead of the $5 million originally agreed upon. On another, a $17 million check had bounced. On another, he sent $1,700 when he was supposed to send the $17 million. Pickett asked Bettman to mediate. The commissioner ordered Spano to remove himself from day-to-day control of the Islanders and not use any team assets until the dispute could be settled.\n\nIn early July, \"Newsday,\" acting on tips from anonymous Islanders executives that their new boss was worth significantly less than advertised, began investigating Spano's background. On July 9, \"Newsday\" published a story that exposed Spano as a complete fraud who didn't have even a fraction of the money required to complete the Islanders deal. Among other things, the \"Newsday\" investigation revealed:\n\n\nUnder the terms of a mediation brokered by Bettman, Spano relinquished control of the Islanders to Pickett on July 11. In return, Pickett agreed not to sue Spano for breach of contract. Spano later told \"Sports Illustrated\" that a \"significant\" capital call and a payment on a note blew apart his plans to pay Pickett. However, he claimed that once Pickett asked Bettman to intervene and the story broke in the press, it was impossible for him to resolve the dispute.\n\nImmediately after the Islanders deal fell apart, it emerged that Spano owed $85,000 in back property taxes on his home.\n\nThere had been some questions about Spano even before the Islanders deal came unraveled. He'd reportedly rubbed some of the other owners the wrong way, which held up formal approval of his purchase of the team. Then-New Jersey Devils owner John McMullen, for instance, told Stan Fischler (a longtime television analyst for SportsChannel New York, which owned and still owns the Islanders' TV rights under the name MSG Plus) that he wasn't sure if Spano was using his own money to buy the team. Fischler also learned that Spano had promised the leader of an Islanders fan club a post as his \"special advisor,\" but apparently didn't tell anyone with the Islanders about it. Spano had offered the team presidency to former Islanders great Denis Potvin (who'd reportedly planned to fire Milbury altogether), but negotiations collapsed after Spano apparently told Potvin that he was running out of money. Potvin later said that Spano had almost no staff, which was unusual for a multimillionaire.\n\nNot long after Spano's cover was blown, it emerged that he was being sued by South African cookware maker Lenco Holdings. Spano had reached a deal with Lenco to sell its pots and pans to American buyers at Nordstrom. However, Nordstrom, then as now, doesn't sell cookware, and the department code on the purported Nordstrom purchase order was for women's coats. Spano borrowed against the venture to secure a $1 million loan from his bank, Comerica. He was also being sued by a Dallas law firm after he hadn't paid it for legal work during his abortive run at the Stars. Had either of these suits come to light sooner, it is likely Spano's pursuit of the Islanders would have been over before it started.\n\nThe \"Newsday\" report revealed that a federal investigation into Spano's affairs was well underway. On July 23, federal prosecutors on Long Island charged Spano with multiple counts of bank fraud, wire fraud and forgery. On August 14, federal prosecutors in Fort Worth indicted Spano with additional unrelated charges of bank fraud and wire fraud for bilking two lenders out of $5.1 million. Soon afterward, federal prosecutors in Boston (home to Fleet) began investigating Spano regarding the $80 million loan.\n\nProsecutors obtained evidence that Spano had forged numerous letters from bank officials in his business dealings from 1995 onward. After Spano bounced the $17 million check, Comerica reportedly sent a letter to Pickett's attorneys saying he had funds to cover the overdraft. However, the executive who purportedly signed it denied ever writing it. Moreover, the letter was written in two different fonts, one on the body and another on the signature block. A postal inspector found that the fax machine mark at the top of the page was an exact match to the one used by Spano's Bison Group. The fax machine mark on a letter purportedly from Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette that claimed Spano owned Treasury bills worth $27 million was also an exact match to the one used by Bison Group.\n\nIt also emerged that many of the banks who gave money to Spano had abandoned their traditional safeguards. Fleet had relied on a letter from a Comerica senior vice president saying that Spano was worth over $100 million. This figure was based on what were later described as \"unverified documents\" provided by Spano. Additionally, a Dallas attorney claimed as trustee of a $107 million trust later told prosecutors he couldn't verify the trust's existence because Spano wouldn't document the funds. The Fleet loan officer who approved the $80 million deal was forced to resign.\n\nSpano initially fled to the Cayman Islands, but eventually agreed to return to the United States. On October 8, he pleaded guilty to the charges lodged by prosecutors in Long Island and Texas. He admitted that he'd planned to defraud the Islanders and Pickett, and to forging documents.\n\nThe plea deal called for him to plead guilty to bank fraud charges in Boston a week later, but several deadlines came and went, and Spano began making noises in late November about withdrawing his plea. As a result, a Boston grand jury indicted him for bank fraud, and federal prosecutors there made plans to file a superseding indictment that could have sent him to prison for 60 years. However, Spano's new attorneys resigned out of fears they wouldn't be paid, and Spano had no choice but to accept the original offer. He pleaded guilty to bank fraud on January 13, 1998.\n\nDuring 1999, his wife divorced him and sold their house, and he moved to a Philadelphia condo where he had tried to pay the rent with an expired credit card, $10,000 in bad checks and wire transfers. This led to his arrest in February, and he lost his bail.\n\nOn January 28, 2000, he was sentenced to 71 months in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution of $11.9 million to his victims, including the Islanders ($3.4 million), two Dallas businesses ($4.4 million), and Mario Lemieux ($1.25 million).\n\nSpano was released in June 2004 on five years' supervised release and moved to a Cleveland suburb. However, he was arrested again in February 2005 for defrauding numerous companies by promising to obtain loans for them and pocketing the fees without getting the loans. He was jailed for 51 months and released from prison on April 3, 2009.\n\nOn August 20, 2014, Spano was indicted by a grand jury in Ohio on one count of theft and 44 counts of forgery. In a scheme that took place from June 2011 until July 2013, Spano stole from his employers Image First, which rents linens to outpatient facilities in Ohio, and its sister company London Cleaners. He pleaded guilty to charges of collecting almost $70,000 in commissions on fraudulent accounts in May 2015 and was sentenced to 10 years prison on June 17, 2015. He was also ordered to pay more than $75,000 in restitution to Image First.\n\nThe Spano fiasco was highly embarrassing to the NHL, which was still reeling from revelations that former NHLPA head Alan Eagleson had lied to his clients and enriched himself by skimming off the union's pension fund. The NHL was particularly shaken after it was revealed that it spent well under $1,000 evaluating Spano's credentials (estimates range from $525 to $750); most leagues spend well over $30,000 to evaluate prospective team owners. When Spano bid for the Stars, the team was satisfied by a letter supposedly from Comerica attesting to his net worth. Prospective NHL owners are now vetted by Ernst and Young and a New York City accounting firm.\n\nThese safeguards were not enough, however, to prevent John Rigas from buying the Buffalo Sabres in 1997, only to have the league take over the franchise after his 2002 arrest for fraud. In 2007 the Nashville Predators were sold to a group that included a nearly 30% share to William \"Boots\" Del Biaggio III, who was later revealed to have fraudulently obtained $110 million in loans from two NHL owners and eight banks in order to purchase a stake in the Predators, a crime for which he was sentenced to eight years in prison\non September 8, 2009 and ordered to sell his share of the team.\n\nAfter several attempts at interviews and possible documentaries, an ESPN \"30 for 30\" film, \"Big Shot\", directed by actor Kevin Connolly, related John Spano's time as prospective owner of the New York Islanders and Spano himself appeared in the film to explain his actions. The film was screened as part of the Sports portion of the 2013 TriBeCa Film Festival. The film subsequently premiered on television in October 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2967734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2967734", "title": "Karva Chauth", "text": "Karva Chauth\n\nKarva Chauth is a one-day festival celebrated by Hindu women four days after purnima (a full moon) in the month of Kartika. Dates differ according to the Gregorian calendar which is tabular and not based according to constellations. Karva Chauth, like many Hindu festivals, is based on the lunisolar calendar which accounts for all astronomical positions, especially positions of the moon which is used as a marker to calculate important dates. \n\nOn Karva Chauth women, especially in Northern India, who are married fast from sunrise to moonrise for the safety and longevity of their husbands. The Karva Chauth fast is traditionally celebrated in the states of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and as Atla Tadde in Andhra Pradesh. The festival falls on the fourth day after the full moon, in the Hindu lunisolar calendar month of Kartik. . Historically, Karva Chauth was celebrated as a prayer for the long life of soldiers in the war, and by extension today refers to the long life of a married husband.\n\n\"Karva\" is another word for 'pot' (a small earthen pot of water) and \"chauth\" means 'fourth' in Hindi (a reference to the fact that the festival falls on the fourth day of the dark-fortnight, or \"krishna paksh\", of the month of \"Kartik\"). The festival originated and came to be celebrated only in the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent. Karwa Chauth is celebrated in Northern India. One hypothesis is that military campaigns were often conducted by men in far off places whereby men would often leave their wives and children to go off to war. Their wives would often pray for their safe return. The festival also coincides with the wheat-sowing time (i.e., the beginning of the Rabi crop cycle). Big earthen pots in which wheat is stored are sometimes called \"Karvas\", so the fast may have begun as a prayer for a good harvest in this predominantly wheat-eating region.\n\nAnother story about the origin of this festival relates to the bond of feminine friendship. With the custom of arranged marriage being prevalent, the newlywed bride would reside with her husband and the in-laws. Everyone being a stranger to her, the custom arose of befriending another woman as her friend (\"kangan-saheli\") or sister (\"dharam-behn\") for life. Their friendship would be sanctified through a Hindu ritual during the marriage ceremony itself. The bride's friend would usually be of the same age (or slightly older), typically married into the same village (so that she would not go away) and not directly related to her in-laws (so there was no conflict of interest later). This emotional and psychological bond would be considered akin to a blood relationship. It is said that Karva Chauth festival evolved to include celebrating this special bond of friendship. \n\nA few days before Karva Chauth, married women would buy new \"karvas\" (spherical clay pots) -- 7\"-9\" in diameter and 2-3 litres capacity—and paint them on the outside with beautiful designs. Inside they would put bangles and ribbons, home-made candy and sweets, make-up items, and small clothes. The women would then visit each other on the day of Karva Chauth and exchange these \"karvas\".\n\n\"The following dates are based on the Hindu calendar.\"\nWomen begin preparing for \"Karva Chauth\" a few days in advance, by buying adornments (shringar), jewelry, and puja items, such as the \"Karva\" lamps, \"matthi\", henna and the decorated puja \"thali\" (plate). Local bazaars take on a festive look as shopkeepers put their \"Karva Chauth\" related products on display. On the day of the fast, women from Punjab awake to eat and drink just before sunrise. In Uttar Pradesh, celebrants eat \"soot feni\" with milk in sugar on the eve of the festival. It is said that this helps them go without water the next day. In Punjab, \"sargi\" (ਸਰਗੀ) is an important part of this pre-dawn meal and always includes \"fenia\". It is traditional for the \"sargi\" to be sent or given to the fasting woman by her mother-in-law. If she lives with her mother-in-law, the pre-dawn meal is prepared by the mother-in-law. On Karwa Chauth occasion, fasting women choose to wear karva chauth special dresses like a traditional saari or lehenga to look their best. In some regions, women wear traditional dresses of their states.\n\nThe fast begins at dawn. Fasting women do not eat during the day. In traditional observances of the fast, the fasting woman usually does no housework. Women apply henna and other cosmetics to themselves and each other. The day passes in meeting friends and relatives. In some regions, it is customary to give and exchange painted clay pots filled with put bangles, ribbons, home-made candy, cosmetics and small cloth items (e.g., handkerchiefs). Since \"Karva Chauth\" follows soon after the \"Kharif\" crop harvest in the rural areas, it is a good time for community festivities and gift exchanges. Parents often send gifts to their married daughters and their children.\n\nIn the evening, a community women-only ceremony is held. Participants dress in fine clothing and wear jewellery and henna, and (in some regions) dress in the complete finery of their wedding dresses. The dresses (\"saris\" or \"shalwars\") are frequently red, gold or orange, which are considered auspicious colors. In Uttar Pradesh, women wear \"saris\" or \"lehangas\". The fasters sit in a circle with their puja thalis. Depending on region and community, a version of the story of \"Karva Chauth\" is narrated, with regular pauses. The storyteller is usually an older woman or a priest, if one is present. In the pauses, the \"Karva Chauth\" puja song is sung collectively the singers perform the \"feris\" (passing their thalis around in the circle).\n\nThe first six describe some of the activities that are taboo during the fast and the seventh describes the lifting of those restrictions with the conclusion of the fast. The forbidden activities include weaving cloth (\"kumbh chrakhra feri naa\"), pleading with or attempting to please anyone (\"ruthda maniyen naa\"), and awakening anyone who is asleep (\"suthra jagayeen naa\"). For the first six \"feris\" they sing\n\nFor the seventh \"feri\", they sing\n\nIn Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, participants exchange \"Karvas\" seven times between themselves. In Rajasthan, before offering water seven times the fasting woman is asked \"\"Dhapi ki Ni Dhapi?\" (are you satiated?), to which she responds, \"Jal se Dhapi, Suhaag se na Dhapi\"\" (I am satiated by water, but not from [love of] my husband). An alternative ritual conducted by Uttar Pradeshis is prayer of \"gaur mata\" the earth. Specifically, celebrants will take a bit of soil, sprinkle water, and then place kumkum on it, treating it as an idol/manifestation of the fertile Mother Earth. In Rajasthan, stories are told by older women in the family, including narratives of Karva Chauth, Shiv, Parvati and Ganesh. In earlier times, an idol of Gaur Mata was made using earth and cow dung, which has now been replaced with an idol of Parvati. Each fasting woman lights an earthen lamp in her \"thali\" while listening to the Karva story. Sindoor, incense sticks and rice are also kept in the \"thali\".\n\nIn Uttar Pradesh, a priest or an elderly woman of the family narrates the story of \"beejabeti\" or Veervati. Celebrants make \"Gauri\", \"Ganesh\" and \"Shankar\" idols with mud and decorate them with colourful and bright clothes and jewellery. While exchanging \"Karvas\" seven times, they sing\n\nThereafter, the fasters offer \"baayna\" (a melange of goodies like halwa, puri, namkeen mathri, \"meethi mathri\", etc.) to the idols (\"mansana\") and hand over to their mother-in-law or sister-in-law.\n\nThe \"fera\" ceremony concluded, the women await the rising of the moon. Once the moon is visible, depending on the region and community, it is customary for a fasting woman, to view moon or its reflection in a vessel filled with water, through a sieve, or through the cloth of a dupatta. Water is offered (arka) to the moon (\"som\" or \"chandra\", the lunar deity) to secure its blessings. In some regions, the woman says a brief prayer asking for her husband's life. It is believed that at this stage, spiritually strengthened by her fast, the woman can successfully confront and defeat death (personified by Yama). In Rajasthan the women say \"Like the gold necklace and the pearl bracelet, just like the moon may my suhaag always shine brightly.\"\n\nHer husband then takes the water from the \"thali\" and offers it to his wife; taking her first sip of water during the day, the fast is now broken and the woman can have a complete meal.\n\nIn modern North India and Northwestern India society, \"Karva Chauth\" is considered to be a romantic festival, symbolizing the love between a husband and wife. It has been celebrated in Bollywood movies such as \"Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge\", where an unmarried woman signals her love for a man by keeping the fast for him and he reciprocates by secretly fasting as a gesture of empathy, as well as demonstrating his concern for her during the day and breaking her fast by feeding her at moonrise, and \"Baghban\", in which a man persuades his elderly fasting wife to break her fast over the telephone because they have been separated by their uncaring children. News coverage of celebrities sometimes highlights the keeping of the fast by an unmarried public figure because it indicates a strong and likely permanent romantic attachment. Similar to Valentine's Day, the lack of a romantic partner can acutely be felt by unattached women. The festival is used extensively in advertising campaigns in the region, for instance in a Chevrolet TV spot in which a man demonstrates his caring for his wife by buying a car with a sunroof so he can drive her around on \"Karva Chauth\" night until she spots the moon through it.\n\nThanks to the Bollywood, Karwa Chauth isn’t limited to be a North Indian or Punjabi festival anymore. It is now glamorized and widely popular function in India. Every married woman and a bride-to-be wants to look her best on this day when she fasts for the well-being of her husband. The evening is the time when the drudgery of fast starts wearing off and the enthusiasm and expectation of golden moments show on their faces.\n\nSince \"Karva Chauth\" is celebrated primarily by women (men are entirely excluded from the festival's observances until moonrise, though they are expected to demonstrate attention and concern for their fasting wives) and because beauty rituals and dressing-up are a significant part of the day, the festival is seen as an event that bonds women together. In the present day, groups of unmarried women sometimes keep the fast out of a sense of friendship, though this practice is far from universal. This is especially true in the urban areas of North India and Northwestern India is interpreted as a prayer for a loving husband in the future. Another trend in the northern urban areas is the spreading of the festival's observance to women originating in communities and regions (such as Maharashtra) that have not traditionally celebrated \"Karva Chauth\" or even been aware of the festival's existence. The same is true for Gujarat. \n\nThe festival has been criticized as being inherently sexist by some because there is no reciprocal fasting by males and called uplifting for women by others. There have been calls to modify or eliminate the festival by commentators who hold it to be \"anti-women\" and to \"perpetuate the notion of women's dependence on men.\" \"Karva chauth\" has been cited as a symbol of cultural repression of women by some Indian feminists, such as Madhu Kishwar who has put it in the same class as \"Khomeinivad\" (i.e., pushing women into position of subservience to their husbands, similar to the family structure allegedly favored by Ayatollah Khomeini). Other feminists, however, have called the festival empowering for women because \"Karva Chauth\" enables them to quit housework completely for the day and expect gifts from their husbands. Some writers have asserted that such \"rituals work insidiously\" to create \"an instrument of social control\" that oppresses women and that the even greater popularity of \"Karva Chauth\" among urban, educated participants raises the question of \"which is the greater barrier to women's liberation: religion or the market.\"\n\nThere are legends associated with the \"Karva Chauth\" festival. In some tellings, the tales are interlinked, with one acting as a frame story for another.\n\nA beautiful queen called Veervati was the only sister of seven loving brothers. She spent her first \"Karva Chauth\" as a married woman at her parents' house. She began a strict fast after sunrise but, by evening, was desperately waiting for the moonrise as she suffered severe thirst and hunger. Her seven brothers couldn't bear to see their sister in such distress and created a mirror in a \"pipal tree\" that made it look as though the moon had risen. The sister mistook it for the moon and broke her fast. The moment she took the first morsel of food, she sneezed. In her second morsel she found hair. After the third she learned the news of her husband, the king, was dead. Heartbroken, she wept through the night until her \"shakti\" compelled a Goddess to appear and ask why she crying. When the queen explained her distress, the Goddess revealed how she had been tricked by her brothers and instructed her to repeat the \"Karva Chauth\" fast with complete devotion. When Veervati repeated the fast, Yama was forced to restore her husband to life.\n\nIn a variant of this story, the brothers build a massive fire behind a mountain instead and trick their sister by convincing her that the glow is the moon. She breaks her fast and word arrives that her beloved husband has died. She immediately begins running to her husband's house, which is somewhat distant, and is intercepted by Shiva-Parvati. Parvati reveals the trickery to her, cuts her own little finger to give the wife a few drops of her holy blood, and instructs her to be careful in keeping the complete fast in the future. The wife sprinkles Parvati's blood on her dead husband and, coming back to life, they are reunited.\n\nThe belief in this fast and its associated rituals goes back to the pre-Mahabharata times. Draupadi, too, is said to have observed this fast. Once Arjun went to the Nilgiris for penance and the rest of the Pandavas faced many problems in his absence. Draupadi, out of desperation, remembered Lord Krishna and asked for help. Lord Krishna reminded her that on an earlier occasion, when Goddess Parvati had sought Lord Shiva's guidance under similar circumstances, she had been advised to observe the fast of Karva Chauth. In some tellings of this legend, Shiva tells Parvati the story of Veervati to describe the \"Karva Chauth\" fast. Draupadi followed the instructions and observed the fast with all its rituals. Consequently, the Pandavas were able to overcome their problems.\n\nA woman named Karva was deeply devoted to her husband. Her intense love and dedication towards him gave her \"shakti\" (spiritual power). While bathing at a river, her husband was caught by a crocodile. Karva bound the crocodile with a cotton yarn and asked Yama (the god of death) to send the crocodile to hell. Yama refused. Karva threatened to curse Yama and destroy him. Yama, afraid of being cursed by \"Pati-vrat\" (devoted) wife, sent the crocodile to hell and blessed Karva's husband with long life. Karva and her husband enjoyed many years of wedded bliss. To this day, Karva Chauth is celebrated with great faith and belief.\n\nWhen Lord Yama came to procure Satyavan's soul, Savitri begged him to grant him life. When he refused, she stopped eating and drinking and followed Yama who carried away her dead husband. Yama said that she could ask for any other boon except for the life of her husband. Savitri asked that she be blessed with children. Yama agreed. Being a \"'Pati-Vrat'\" (devoted) wife, Savitri would never let any other man be the father of her children. Yama was left with no other choice but to restore Savitri's husband to life. This Story refers to a different punima and not Karva Chauth\n\n"}
{"id": "38808352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38808352", "title": "La Copa Junior", "text": "La Copa Junior\n\nThe Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) has held the La Copa Junior (\"The Junior Cup\") tournament on an infrequent schedule since 1996. The tournament pays respect to the fact that wrestling is a family tradition in Lucha libre, with a large number of second or even third generation wrestlers following the footsteps of their relatives. So far CMLL has held seven tournaments starting in 1996 and then intermittently in 2005, 2006, 2010, 2012 and two tournaments in 2014. The seventh \"La Copa Junior\" tournament has been announced for January 2016. While most of the family relationships are real there are a few instances of the family relationship being a storylines family relationship, such as Dragón Rojo Jr. being billed as the grandson of Dragón Rojo, when in reality that is simply a storyline created by CMLL. As of the 2014 VIP tournament there have been seven \"La Copa Junior\" tournaments promoted by CMLL, a total of 60 wrestlers have competed in one or more tournaments with, Shocker and Volador Jr. having the record for most tournaments, five each.\n\nThe oldest tournament winner was Emilio Charles Jr., who was 39 years old when he won the 1996 tournament, while the oldest competitor ever was Brazo de Plata who was 51 years old when he wrestled in the 2014 VIP tournament. The youngest tournament winner was La Sombra, who won the 2012 tournament at 23 years of age. Cachorro or Mano Negra Jr. is the youngest wrestler to compete in the tournament, both were around 16 or 17 years old when they completed in the \"La Copa Junior\" tournament, but their actual birth date is not known, just birth year, making it impossible to determine who was the youngest entrant overall.\n\nCMLL held their first \"La Copa Junior\" tournament in 1996, as a part of their weekly Friday night \"CMLL Super Viernes\" shows on February 23 and March 1, 1996. The first show featured the opening round of the tournament, while the second show featured the Quarter finals, semi finals and the finals of the tournament. Héctor Garza defeated Emilio Charles Jr. in the final to win the \"La Copa Junior\".\n\nThe \"La Copa Junior\" tournament did not return until 2005 when CMLL revived the concept and presented it as an annual recurring tournament. Like the 1996 version the 2005 tournament played out over 2 editions of CMLL's \"Super Viernes\" shows, on February 22, 2005 and March 1, 2005. Héctor Garza was originally supposed to work the tournament, but was unable to return to Mexico due to commitments in the United States of America and had to be replaced by Apolo Dantés. Olímpico was unable to compete due to a neck injury, forcing CMLL to replace him with Máscara Mágica and the 1996 winner Emilio Charles Jr. had to pull out of the tournament due to a hand injury, he was replaced by Brazo de Oro. The tournament came down to Dr. Wagner Jr. and Shocker facing off in the finals, with Shocker winning the whole tournament.\n\nThe \"La Copa Junior\" tournament returned in 2006, seemingly planned as an annual event, and took place on one night on March 21, 2006, during a CMLL \"Super Viernes\" show. Due to the fact that all 15 matches took place in one night all matches were under 10 minutes in length. The finals had Dos Caras Jr. defeat Héctor Garza in what was Garza's second \"La Copa Junior\" finale defeat.\n\nAfter not being promoted for three years CMLL brought \"La Copa Junior\" back as a late in the year tournament. The tournament included 20 wrestlers, four more than the other tournaments. the tournament was split into 2 blocks of 10 wrestlers, with a seeding Battle royal, where the final two wrestlers in the ring would only have to win one match to get into the semi final, while everyone else in the block would have to win three. Block A, which took place on the December 10, 2010 Super Viernes show and had Dragón Rojo Jr. overcome the odds and defeat four wrestlers in a row to earn a spot in the final match. Rojo Jr. defeated Maximo, La Mascara, La Sombra and Volador Jr. Block B took place on the December 17, 2010 Super Viernes and saw Averno take advantage of the \"short cut\" as he defeated the other Battle royal survivor Hijo del Fantasma to advance to the semi final where he pinned longtime rival Místico to earn his spot in the tournament final.\n\nThe finals of the \"La Copa Junior\" tournament took place on a special Saturday night event on December 25, 2010. The end came after a distraction by Averno's cornerman Mephisto led Averno to land a low blow on Dragón Rojo Jr., only for the ruse to backfire on him as the referee saw the illegal move and disqualified Averno, making Dragón Rojo Jr. the 2010 \"La Copa Junior\" winner.\n\nCMLL brought the La Copa Junior tournament back in late 2012, holding the tournament spread out over two \"CMLL Super Viernes\" shows and the finals as the main event of the 2012 \"Sin Piedad\". The two qualifying rounds took place on the November 30, 2012 and the Super Viernes December 7, 2012. CMLL decided to change the tournament format for the 2012 version, instead adopting their normal tournament format, with two qualifying \"torneo cibernetico\", multi-man elimination matches, with the winner of each match advancing to the finals. Each of the qualifying blocks consisted of 10 second generation wrestlers for a total of 20 competitors over all, the highest number of competitors in any of the \"La Copa Junior\" tournaments. The first qualifying block was won by La Sombra, lastly eliminating his longtime rival Volador Jr. to earn his spot in the finals. The second qualifying block was won by New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) representative Tama Tonga as he eliminated Shocker to earn his spot in the finals. The final match was the only match contested under two out of three falls that saw La Sombra defeat Tama Tonga two falls to one to win the 2012 \"La Copa Junior\" tournament.\n\nThe 2014 Copa Junior took place on January 1, 2014. The tournament took place as a single \"torneo cibernetico\" and saw Super Halcón Jr. emerge victorious over eleven other wrestlers.\n\nThe La Copa Junior VIP 2014 tournament is an ongoing \"lucha libre\" (professional wrestling) tournament held by the Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). The tournament is the second \"La Copa Junior\" tournament held in 2014, with the second tournament being labelled as \"V.I.P.\". The tournament started on September 26, 2014 with half of the competitors facing off to determine the first finalist with Mephisto defeating Misterioso Jr., Shocker and finally Volador Jr. to earn a spot in the finals. Brazo de Plata was originally scheduled to take part in the tournament, but was replaced by Ángel de Oro without any official explanation. The second qualifying block took place on October 3 to determine the second finalist. In the second round \"Los Ingobernables\" team mates La Sombra and Rush faced off after both won their first round match. To the surprise of everyone, and contrary to statements made before the tournament, the two decided not to fight each other at all and Rush gave the win to La Sombra. La Sombra faced Máximo in the block finals after Máximo defeated Puma and Stuka Jr. on his way to the finals. In the finals La Sombra was disqualified for kicking Máximo in the groin, costing him the match and allowing Máximo to advance to the tournament finals. Euforia was the only competitor in the 2014 VIP tournament to have never competed in the \"La Copa Junior\" tournament before, despite it being openly acknowledge that he was the son of the original El Soberano, his son, the current Soberano, had not participated in a \"La Copa Junior\" tournament either at that point. On October 10 Máximo defeated Mephisto to win his first ever \"La Copa Junior\" tournament.\n\nThe 2016 \"La Copa Junior\" was a \"Lucha libre\", or professional wrestling, tournament that took pace over three weeks from January 5, 2016 through January 19, 2016 The format of the 2016 tournament matched the 2012 version of the tournament and a number of CMLL's other annual tournaments. The 16 wrestlers were divided into two groups of eight that wrestle in a \"torneo cibernetico\" elimination match on January 5 and January 12, the survivor of each qualifying \"torneo cibernetico\" then faces off against each other in the finals on January 19, 2015. Puma won the first \"cibernetico\" and Esfinge won the second \"cibernetico\" to qualify for the finals. On January 19 Esfinge defeated Puma to win the 2016 \"La Copa Junior\" tournament\n\nThe 2017 \"La Copa Junior Nuevos Valores\" was a \"Lucha libre\", or professional wrestling tournament that took place over three weeks from April 14, 2017 through April 28, 2017. To qualify for the tournament a wrestler must be a second or third generation wrestler, either legitimately or through the storyline character they portray. The format of the 2017 tournament matches the previous tournament, as well as a number of CMLL's other annual tournaments. 16 wrestlers are divided into two groups of eight that wrestle in a \"torneo cibernetico\" elimination match on April 14 and April 21, the survivor of each qualifying \"torneo cibernetico\" then faces off against each other in the finals on April 28, 2017. The 2017 version of the tournament was given the tagline \"Nuevos Valores\", emphasizing that this specific tournament would focus on the \"new guys\", younger wrestlers who normally wrestle on the low-to-middle part of the show, between matches 1 and 3. CMLL has previously held tournaments to focus on the younger wrestlers such as the \"Sangre Nueva\" tournament or \"Forjando un Idolo\", but this would be the first time CMLL specifically designated the Copa Junior as being strictly for \"new guys\". Artillero, who competed in Block B was the only wrestler to not fit the \"new\" mold, as he had been working for CMLL for 17 years at that point, starting in 2005. On April 28, 2017 Soberano Jr. defeated Sansón to win the tournament.\n"}
{"id": "15305270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15305270", "title": "Le Patin Libre", "text": "Le Patin Libre\n\nLe Patin Libre is a performance art company creating and touring performances on ice skates, utilizing ice and glide as means for self-expression. Founded in 2005 by figure skater, Alexandre Hamel, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, the group created what is regarded as a new genre of performing art, called contemporary skating.\n\nOrganized as an artistic collective, Le Patin Libre is currently composed of five dedicated members: Samory Ba, Jasmin Boivin, Taylor Dilley, Alexandre Hamel, Pascale Jodoin.\n\nApart from performing, the group is also politically involved in an effort to re-organize public skating sessions and improve general access to, and freedom of motion on, public ice surfaces in Montreal, QC, CA.\n\nEarly in the company's development, media described Le Patin Libre as \"Disney on Ice with a bonus hint of imagination, artistic expression and technical mastery\". The initial growth of the troupe was linked to winter festivals, which are a tradition in the province of Quebec. Exploring skating outside, the troupe was inspired by Montreal's contemporary dance and circus scene.\n\nMore recently Le Patin Libre has been 'playing with choreography and imagery that rinses viewers of all conventional expectations.'\n\nContemporary skating is a genre of performance art created by Le Patin Libre. The concept was conceived by Alexandre Hamel in 2005. Since that time, the concept has evolved, and the genre has emerged, as evidenced by critics approval of the collectives latest material, and the interest of traditional contemporary dance organizations such as Sadler's Wells, Dance Umbrella Festival and the National Arts Centre.\n\nContemporary skating differs from other on-ice performance activities including figure skating. The concept of contemporary skating was inspired by contemporary dance and circus. Artists in Le Patin Libre claim that; as simple as it may seem, glide is a profound way of movement particular to skating which merits exploration.\n\nA style of on ice movement invented by the troop, utilizing tap dance and skating. The artists use the sounds of their blades to create music.\n\nPerformers within Le Patin Libre have experimented with freestyle skating; a concept developed by teenagers in France to play with and explore on ice movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "40557499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40557499", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Hassan Rouhani", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Hassan Rouhani\n\nThis is a list of international presidential trips made by Hassan Rouhani, the 7th and current President of Iran\n\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2013:\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2014:\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2015:\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2016:\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2017:\n\nThe following international trips were made by President Hassan Rouhani in 2018:\n\n"}
{"id": "251272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251272", "title": "List of people who survived assassination attempts", "text": "List of people who survived assassination attempts\n\nList of survivors of assassination attempts, listed chronologically.\n\n"}
{"id": "21001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21001", "title": "Magazine", "text": "Magazine\n\nA magazine is a publication, usually a periodical publication, which is printed or electronically published (sometimes referred to as an online magazine). Magazines are generally published on a regular schedule and contain a variety of content. They are generally financed by advertising, by a purchase price, by prepaid subscriptions, or a combination of the three. At its root, the word \"magazine\" refers to a collection or storage location. In the case of written publication, it is a collection of written articles. This explains why magazine publications share the word root with gunpowder magazines, artillery magazines, firearms magazines, and, in French, retail stores such as department stores.\n\nBy definition, a \"magazine\" paginates with each issue starting at page three, with the standard sizing being . However, in the technical sense a \"journal\" has continuous pagination throughout a volume. Thus \"Business Week\", which starts each issue anew with page one, is a magazine, but the \"Journal of Business Communication\", which starts each volume with the winter issue and continues the same sequence of pagination throughout the coterminous year, is a journal. Some professional or trade publications are also peer-reviewed, an example being the \"Journal of Accountancy\". Academic or professional publications that are not peer-reviewed are generally \"professional magazines\". That a publication calls itself a \"journal\" does not make it a journal in the technical sense; \"The Wall Street Journal\" is actually a newspaper.\n\nMagazines can be distributed through the mail, through sales by newsstands, bookstores, or other vendors, or through free distribution at selected pick-up locations. The subscription business models for distribution fall into three main categories.\n\nIn this model, the magazine is sold to readers for a price, either on a per-issue basis or by subscription, where an annual fee or monthly price is paid and issues are sent by post to readers. Paid circulation allows for defined readership statistics.\n\nThis means that there is no cover price and issues are given away, for example in street dispensers, airline, or included with other products or publications. Because this model involves giving issues away to unspecific populations, the statistics only entail the number of issues distributed, and not who reads them.\n\nThis is the model used by many trade magazines (industry-based periodicals) distributed only to qualifying readers, often for free and determined by some form of survey. Because of costs (e.g., printing and postage) associated with the medium of print, publishers may not distribute free copies to everyone who requests one (unqualified leads); instead, they operate under controlled circulation, deciding who may receive free subscriptions based on each person's qualification as a member of the trade (and likelihood of buying, for example, likelihood of having corporate purchasing authority, as determined from job title). This allows a high level of certainty that advertisements will be received by the advertiser's target audience, and it avoids wasted printing and distribution expenses. This latter model was widely used before the rise of the World Wide Web and is still employed by some titles. For example, in the United Kingdom, a number of computer-industry magazines use this model, including \"Computer Weekly\" and \"Computing\", and in finance, \"Waters Magazine\". For the global media industry, an example would be \"VideoAge International.\"\n\nThe earliest example of magazines was \"Erbauliche Monaths Unterredungen\", a literary and philosophy magazine, which was launched in 1663 in Germany. \"The Gentleman's Magazine\", first published in 1731, in London was the first general-interest magazine. Edward Cave, who edited \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" under the pen name \"Sylvanus Urban\", was the first to use the term \"magazine,\" on the analogy of a military storehouse. Founded by Herbert Ingram in 1842, \"The Illustrated London News\" was the first illustrated magazine.\n\nThe oldest consumer magazine still in print is \"The Scots Magazine\", which was first published in 1739, though multiple changes in ownership and gaps in publication totalling over 90 years weaken that claim. \"Lloyd's List\" was founded in Edward Lloyd's England coffee shop in 1734; and though it's on-line platform is still updated daily it has not been published as a magazine since 2013 after 274 years Despite being among the first mass media outlets to venture from the bible, periodicals still remained rooted in the naturalized class and gender system held by European and American society.\n\nManufacturing of the early magazines were done via an archaic form of the printing press, using large hand-engraved wood blocks for printing. When production of magazines increased, entire production lines were created to manufacture these wooden blocks.\n\nUnder the ancien regime, the most prominent magazines were \"Mercure de France\", \"Journal des sçavans\", founded in 1665 for scientists, and \"Gazette de France\", founded in 1631. Jean Loret was one of France's first journalists. He disseminated the weekly news of music, dance and Parisian society from 1650 until 1665 in verse, in what he called a \"gazette burlesque\", assembled in three volumes of \"La Muse historique\" (1650, 1660, 1665). The French press lagged a generation behind the British, for they catered to the needs the aristocracy, while the newer British counterparts were oriented toward the middle and working classes.\n\nPeriodicals were censored by the central government in Paris. They were not totally quiescent politically—often they criticized Church abuses and bureaucratic ineptitude. They supported the monarchy and they played at most a small role in stimulating the revolution. During the Revolution, new periodicals played central roles as propaganda organs for various factions. Jean-Paul Marat (1743–1793) was the most prominent editor. His \"L'Ami du peuple\" advocated vigorously for the rights of the lower classes against the enemies of the people Marat hated; it closed when he was assassinated. After 1800 Napoleon reimposed strict censorship.\n\nMagazines flourished after Napoleon left in 1815. Most were based in Paris and most emphasized literature, poetry and stories. They served religious, cultural and political communities. In times of political crisis they expressed and helped shape the views of their readership and thereby were major elements in the changing political culture. For example, there were eight Catholic periodicals in 1830 in Paris. None were officially owned or sponsored by the Church and they reflected a range of opinion among educated Catholics about current issues, such as the 1830 July Revolution that overthrew the Bourbon monarchy. Several were strong supporters of the Bourbon kings, but all eight ultimately urged support for the new government, putting their appeals in terms of preserving civil order. They often discussed the relationship between church and state. Generally, they urged priests to focus on spiritual matters and not engage in politics. Historian M. Patricia Dougherty says this process created a distance between the Church and the new monarch and enabled Catholics to develop a new understanding of church-state relationships and the source of political authority.\n\nThe \"Moniteur Ottoman\" was a gazette written in French and first published in 1831 on the order of Mahmud II. It was the first official gazette of the Ottoman Empire, edited by Alexandre Blacque at the expense of the Sublime Porte. Its name perhaps referred to the French newspaper \"Le Moniteur Universel\". It was issued weekly. \"Takvim-i vekayi\" was published a few months later, intended as a translation of the \"Moniteur\" into Ottoman Turkish. After having been edited by former Consul for Denmark \"\"M. Franceschi\", and later on by \"Hassuna de Ghiez\"\", it was lastly edited by Lucien Rouet. However, facing the hostility of embassies, it was closed in the 1840s.\n\nSatirical magazines of Turkey have a long tradition, with the first magazine (\"Diyojen\") published in 1869. There are currently around 20 satirical magazines; the leading ones are \"Penguen\" (70,000 weekly circulation), \"LeMan\" (50,000) and \"Uykusuz\". Historical examples include Oğuz Aral's magazine \"Gırgır\" (which reached a circulation of 500,000 in the 1970s) and \"Marko Paşa\" (launched 1946). Others include \"L-Manyak\" and \"Lombak\".\n\nIn the mid-1800s, monthly magazines gained popularity. They were general interest to begin, containing some news, vignettes, poems, history, political events, and social discussion. Unlike newspapers, they were more of a monthly record of current events along with entertaining stories, poems, and pictures. The first periodicals to branch out from news were \"Harper's\" and \"The Atlantic\", which focused on fostering the arts. Both \"Harper's\" and \"The Atlantic\" persist to this day, with Harper's being a cultural magazine and The Atlantic focusing mainly on world events. Early publications of Harper's even held famous works such as early publications of \"Moby Dick\" or famous events such as the laying of the world's first transatlantic telegraph cable; however, the majority of early content was trickle down from British events.\n\nThe development of the magazines stimulated an increase in literary criticism and political debate, moving towards more opinionated pieces from the objective newspapers. The increased time between prints and the greater amount of space to write provided a forum for public arguments by scholars and critical observers.\n\nThe early periodical predecessors to magazines started to evolve to modern definition in the late 1800s. Works slowly became more specialized and the general discussion or cultural periodicals were forced to adapt to a consumer market which yearned for more localization of issues and events.\n\nMass circulation magazines became much more common after 1900, some with circulations in the hundreds of thousands of subscribers. Some passed the million-mark in the 1920s. It was an age of mass media. Because of the rapid expansion of national advertising, the cover price fell sharply to about 10 cents. One cause was the heavy coverage of corruption in politics, local government and big business, especially by \"Muckrakers.\" They were journalists who wrote for popular magazines to expose social and political sins and shortcomings. They relied on their own investigative journalism reporting; muckrakers often worked to expose social ills and corporate and political corruption. Muckraking magazines–notably \"McClure's\"–took on corporate monopolies and crooked political machines while raising public awareness of chronic urban poverty, unsafe working conditions, and social issues like child labor.\n\nThe journalists who specialized in exposing waste, corruption, and scandal operated at the state and local level, like Ray Stannard Baker, George Creel, and Brand Whitlock. Other like Lincoln Steffens exposed political corruption in many large cities; Ida Tarbell went after John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company. Samuel Hopkins Adams in 1905 showed the fraud involved in many patent medicines, Upton Sinclair's 1906 novel \"The Jungle\" gave a horrid portrayal of how meat was packed, and, also in 1906, David Graham Phillips unleashed a blistering indictment of the U.S. Senate. Roosevelt gave these journalists their nickname when he complained they were not being helpful by raking up all the muck.\n\nIn 2011, 152 magazines ceased operations and in 2012, 82 magazines. Between the years of 2008 to 2015, Oxbridge communications announced that 227 magazines launched and 82 magazines closed in 2012 in North America. Furthermore, according to MediaFinder.com, 93 new magazines launched between the first six months of 2014 and just 30 closed. The category that produced new publications was \"Regional interest\", six new magazines were launched, including 12th & Broad and Craft Beer & Brewing. However, two magazines had to change their print schedules. Johnson Publishing's Jet stopped printing regular issues making the transition to digital format, however still print an annual print edition. Ladies Home Journal, stopped their monthly schedule and home delivery for subscribers to become a quarterly newsstand-only special interest publication.\nAccording to statistics from the end of 2013, subscription levels for 22 of the top 25 magazines declined from 2012 to 2013, with just \"Time\", \"Glamour\" and \"ESPN The Magazine\" gaining numbers.\n\nImmortalized in movies and magazines, young women's fashions of the 1920s set both a trend and social statement, a breaking-off from the rigid Victorian way of life. Their glamorous life style was celebrated in the feature pages and in the advertisements, where they learned the brands that best exemplified the look they sought. These young, rebellious, middle-class women, labeled \"flappers\" by older generations, did away with the corset and donned slinky knee-length dresses, which exposed their legs and arms. The hairstyle of the decade was a chin-length bob, which had several popular variations. Cosmetics, which, until the 1920s, were not typically accepted in American society because of their association with prostitution, became, for the first time, extremely popular.\n\nIn the 1920s new magazines appealed to young German women with a sensuous image and advertisements for the appropriate clothes and accessories they would want to purchase. The glossy pages of \"Die Dame\" and \"Das Blatt der Hausfrau\" displayed the \"Neue Frauen,\" \"New Girl\" - what Americans called the flapper. She was young and fashionable, financially independent, and was an eager consumer of the latest fashions. The magazines kept her up to date on fashion, arts, sports, and modern technology such as automobiles and telephones.\n\nReligious groups have used magazines for spreading and communicating religious doctrine for over 100 years. \"The Friend\" was founded in Philadelphia in 1827 at the time of a major Quaker schism; it has been continually published and was renamed Friends Journal when the rival Quaker groups formally reconciled in the mid-1950s. Several Catholic magazines launched at the turn of the 20th Century that still remain in circulation including; St. Anthony Messenger founded in 1893 and published by the Franciscan Friars (O.F.M.) of St. John the Baptist Province, Cincinnati, Ohio, Los Angeles based Tidings, founded in 1895 (renamed Angelus in 2016), and published jointly by The Tidings Corporation and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and Maryknoll, founded in 1907 by the Foreign Mission Society of America which brings news about the organization's charitable and missionary work in over 100 countries. There are over 100 Catholic magazines published in the United States, and thousands globally which range in scope from inspirational messages to specific religious orders, faithful family life, to global issues facing the world wide Church. The Watchtower publication was started by Charles Taze Russell on July 1879 under the title \"Zion's Watch Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence\". \"The Watchtower—Public Edition\" is one of the most widely circulated magazine in the world, with an average printing of approximately 62 million copies every two months in 200 languages. The \"Plough Quarterly\" was started in 1920 as the magazine of the Bruderhof, and has continued publication to this day, despite Nazi persecution..\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22398418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22398418", "title": "March for Life and Family", "text": "March for Life and Family\n\nMarch for Life and Family (Pol. \"Marsz dla Życia i Rodziny\" ) is an annual march for a marriage, meaning as a partnership between a man and a woman, and for dignity of a human life from a fertilization to a natural death. The first march was in Warsaw, now the march is organizing in many towns in Poland, but not in the same date.\n\nThe \"Centre of Life and Family Foundation\" (Pol. Fundacja Centrum Życia i Rodziny) is organizing the march in Warsaw and coordinating all the marches named \"March for Life and Family\" in Poland. Other marches are arranged by many pro-life organizations and Catholic institutions (e.g. \"Fundacja Pro\" – a Polish pro-life organisation, \"Piotr Skarga Society of Christian Culture\" /Pol. \"Stowarzyszenie Kultury Chrześcijańskiej im. Ks. Piotra Skargi\"/, Neocatechumenal Way, Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and other).\n\nThe first march took place in 2006 in Warsaw. According to the Catholic Information Agency it attracted over 2000 people, mainly young with their families, representants of conservative non-governmental organisations and right-wing politicians. Demonstrators held banners with slogans: \"Love is hetero\", \"Right to birth for everyone\", \"Man and woman the true family\", \"Stop abortion\", \"Stop perversion\" (with a picture of two men holding their hands), \"I choose life\". A pop concert, funded by the government, closed the march.\n\nAccording to police statistics the second march in 2007 attracted about 600 people. However, organisors claimed that the number of people reached 4000. The march was attended by right-wing politicians such as Roman Giertych, Wojciech Wierzejski, Marian Piłka and Artur Zawisza, as well as various institutions, e.g. Fundacja Pełna Chata (Full Cottage Foundation), Grupa \"Człowiek tak – homoseksualizm nie\" (\"Human yes – homosexuality no\" Group), Bielańskie Stowarzyszenie Rodzin Wielodzietnych (Bielany Association of Families with a lot of Children). The march was also attended by pro-life activists from Germany, Italy, France, Chile, Peru and United States.\n\nDemonstrators held banners with slogans \"Marriage only between man and woman\", \"Perversion stop\" as well as Polish national flags and crosses.\n\nThe third march took place in May 2008. Prior to the march there were several films presented on abortion, miraculous revelation of Madonna and culture of death regarding current situation in Sweden, where same-sex marriage is to be recognised. There was also a lecture at the Catholic Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw on abortion and methods of contraception approved by the Vatican. According to the police statistics there were less than 1000 demonstrators, but organisators claim that there were about 4000.\n\n"}
{"id": "20761821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20761821", "title": "Opioid overdose", "text": "Opioid overdose\n\nAn opioid overdose is toxicity due to excessive opioids. Examples of opioids include morphine, heroin, fentanyl, tramadol, and methadone. Symptoms include insufficient breathing, small pupils, and unconsciousness. Onset of symptoms depends in part on the route opioids are taken. Among those who initially survive, complications can include rhabdomyolysis, pulmonary edema, compartment syndrome, and permanent brain damage.\nRisk factors for opioid overdose include opioid dependence, injecting opioids, using high doses of opioids, mental disorders, and use together with alcohol, benzodiazepines, or cocaine. The risk is particularly high following detoxification. Dependence on prescription opioids can occur from their use to treat chronic pain. Diagnosis is generally based on symptoms.\nInitial treatment involves supporting the person's breathing and providing oxygen. Naloxone is then recommended among those who are not breathing to reverse the opioids effects. Giving naloxone into the nose or as an injection into a muscle appears to be equally effective. Among those who refuse to go to hospital following reversal, the risks of a poor outcome in the short term appear to be low. Efforts to prevent deaths from overdose include improving access to naloxone and treatment for opioid dependence. \nOpioid use disorders resulted in 122,000 deaths globally in 2015, up from 18,000 deaths in 1990. In the United States over 49,000 deaths involved opioids in 2017. Of those about 20,000 involved prescription opioids and 16,000 involved heroin. In 2017 opioid deaths represented more than 65% of all drug overdose related deaths in the United States. The opioid epidemic is believed to be in part due to assurances in the 1990s by the pharmaceutical industry that prescription opioids were safe.\n\nBecause of their effect on the part of the brain that regulates breathing, Opioids can lead to the person not breathing (respiratory depression) during overdoses and therefore result in death. Opiate overdose symptoms and signs can be referred to as the \"opioid overdose triad\": decreased level of consciousness, pinpoint pupils and respiratory depression. Other symptoms include seizures and muscle spasms. Sometimes a person experiencing an opiate overdose can lead to such a decreased level of consciousness that he or she won't even wake up to their name being called or being shaken by another person.\n\nProlonged hypoxia from respiratory depression can also lead to detrimental damage to the brain and spinal cord and can leave the person unable to walk or function normally, even if treatment with naloxone is given.\n\nAlcohol also causes respiratory depression and therefore when taken with opioids can increase the risk of respiratory depression and death.\n\nIn young children, opioid overdose may not be apparent right away. This is due to absorption, distribution, and metabolism differences between young children and adults, and the higher amount of opioid ingestion per kilogram of body weight.\n\nRisk factors for opioid overdose include opioid dependence, injecting opioids, using high doses of opioids, and use together with alcohol, benzodiazepines, or cocaine. The risk is particularly high following detoxification. Dependence on prescription opioids can occur from their use to treat chronic pain. In young children an overdose is usually due to opioids that are intended for their parents, older siblings, or grandparents. In mothers who take codeine during breastfeeding, opioid overdoses have occurred in their baby. Codeine is therefore not recommended in those who are breastfeeding.\n\nOpioid overdoses are often associated with benzodiazepines or alcohol use. Other CNS depressants, muscle relaxers, pain relievers, anti-convulsants, anxiolytics, treatment drugs of a psychoactive or epileptic variety or any other such drug with its active function meant to calm or mitigate neuronal signaling (barbiturates, etc.) can additionally cause a worsened condition with less likelihood of recovery cumulative to each added drug. This includes drugs less immediately classed to a slowing of the metabolism such as with GABAergics like GHB or glutamatergic antagonists like PCP or ketamine.\n\nOpioids are metabolized by the liver before they are excreted in the urine and each opioid may be metabolized by different cytochrome P450 enzymes. Polymorphisms in CYP superfamily of genes vary by individual and can account for differences in therapeutic response to drugs. This biotransformation of opioids by the liver can either lead to the inactivation or activation of the drug. For example, methadone is converted primarily by CYP3A4 liver enzyme to an inactive metabolite. In contrast, codeine is an initially inactive prodrug that is metabolized by CYP2D6 to its active form morphine to exert its analgesic effects. An individual who has a poor metabolizer phenotype of CYP2D6 may experience weak analgesic effects with codeine while someone who has the ultra-rapid metabolizer phenotype would experience greater side effects.\n\nPermanent brain damage may occur due to cerebral hypoxia or opioid-induced neurotoxicity. Opioids inhibit the medulla's chemoreceptors through the mu and delta receptors. Opioids bind to receptors that are part of the endogenous opioid system as well as other central nervous neurotransmitter systems, binding to excitatory neurotransmitters like dopamine or glutamate, or inhibitory neurotransmitters like GABA. The main excitatory chemoreceptor, glutamate, and main inhibitory chemoreceptor, GABA, are the main neurotransmitters that control respiration. Because of its fatal consequences, opioid induced respiratory depression is one of the major limiting factors of its analgesic effects. Opioids vary in the rate of metabolism amongst individuals. The rate of metabolism of opiates vary due to genetic factors while tolerance of the opiates can determine risk.\n\nOpioid overdoses can often be prevented. Clear protocols for staff at emergency departments and urgent care centers can reduce opioid prescriptions for individuals presenting in these settings who engage in drug seeking behaviors or who have a history of substance abuse. Drug seeking behaviors include but are not limited to obsessiveness or impatience when it comes to attaining medications, seeking multiple pain adjunct medications, and inconsistent physiological presentation. A limited amount of evidence suggests opioid therapy with extended-release or long-acting formulations may increase the risk of an unintentional overdose compared to shorter-acting agents. Routinely screening using tools such as the CAGE-AID and the Drug Abuse Screening Test (DAST-10) in adults and the CRAFFT in those aged 14–18 years is recommended. Other “drug seeking” behaviors and physical indications of drug use should be used as clues to perform formal screenings.\n\nThere are several medication-assisted treatments available for people with opioid use disorder or opioid dependence, who are at higher risk for opioid overdose. The selection of treatment depends on various factors, such as a person's preference, accessibility, and history of treatment. Examples of medication-assisted treatments are buprenorphine (with or without naloxone), naltrexone, and methadone. Peer support groups have tentative evidence of benefit. There is also some evidence indicating benefits in community-based overdose education and naloxone distribution programs. Buprenorphine and methadone can help decrease drug cravings. Combining pharmacologic treatments with behavioral therapy, such as support or recovery groups, can increase likelihood of overcoming addiction and reduce the risk of an opioid overdose. \n\nIndividuals diagnosed with opioid dependence should be prescribed naloxone to prevent overdose and/or should be directed to one of the many intervention/treatment options available, such as needle exchange programs and treatment centers. Brief motivational interviewing can also be performed and has been shown to improve people's motivation to change their behavior. Despite these opportunities, the dissemination of prevention interventions in the US has been hampered by the lack of coordination and sluggish federal government response.\n\nIn people who have overdosed on opioids, basic life support and naloxone are recommended as soon as possible. Naloxone is effective at reversing the cause, rather than just the symptoms, of an opioid overdose. Compared to adults, children often need larger doses of naloxone per kilogram of body weight.\n\nPrograms to provide drug users and their caregivers with naloxone are recommended. In the United States, as of 2014, more than 25,000 overdoses have been reversed. Programs training police and fire personnel in opioid overdose response using naloxone have also shown promise.\n\nOf the more than 72,000 overdose deaths in the US in 2017, opioids were involved in over 49,000. This is an increase from 2016 where over 64,000 died from drug overdose, and opioids were involved in over 42,000. In 2016, the five states with the highest rates of death due to drug overdose were West Virginia (52.0 per 100,000), Ohio (39.1 per 100,000), New Hampshire (39.0 per 100,000), Pennsylvania (37.9 per 100,000) and Kentucky (33.5 per 100,000).\n\nConcerning the 2017 data in the charts below deaths from the various drugs add up to more than 72,000 because multiple drugs are involved in many of the deaths.\n\nThe Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration hosts an annual health observance known as National Prevention Week. Every third week of May, they encourage communities across the country unite to share stories about positive mental and behavioral health and the importance of implementing prevention methods. They also sponsors Recovery Month every September. Recovery Month aims to raise awareness about mental and substance use disorders and to honor individuals who recover, promoting the positive message that prevention works and that treatment is effective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18606160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18606160", "title": "Otto Parschau", "text": "Otto Parschau\n\nLeutnant Otto Parschau (11 November 1890 – 21 July 1916) was a German World War I Flying Ace and recipient of the Pour le Mérite, Royal House Order of Hohenzollern, and Iron Cross, First Class. He was noted as one of the pre-eminent aces on the Fokker Eindecker. He was one of the world's first flying aces, as along with \"Leutnant\" Kurt Wintgens, Parschau was one of the original pilots entrusted with the prototype of the revolutionary Fokker Eindecker fighter plane with a machine gun synchronized to fire safely through its propeller arc via use of a gun synchronizer.\n\nParschau was born in Klutznick, in the Allenstein district of East Prussia. He became a commissioned officer a year after having joined the Infanterie-Regiment Nr. 151 in 1910. Parschau was trained as a pilot in Johannisthal, Darmstadt and in Hanover and received his licence on 4 July 1913.\n\nUpon the outbreak of hostilities in August 1914 Parschau was already serving with the Luftstreitkräfte, and soon found himself flying two-seaters in operations on the Champagne front and then in Flanders and Alsace-Lorraine before being posted to West Prussia and Galicia, on the Eastern Front.\n\nParschau was assigned a Fokker A.III aircraft bearing both the Fokker factory serial number \"216\", and the IdFlieg military serial number of \"A.16/15\", previously used by one Oberleutnant Waldemar von Buttlar. This unarmed monoplane had been privately purchased in 1913 by von Buttlar, whose aircraft had been requisitioned by the \"Fliegertruppe\" along with his commissioning as an officer in the German Army at the outbreak of hostilities, and had been painted a shade of green, the colour of von Buttlar's previous Marburg-based Jäger Regiment 11. Parschau had served with the same, surreptitiously named \"Brieftauben-Abteilung Ostende\" unit, abbreviated as BAO in German military communications of the time, in Belgium as \"Oberleutnant\" von Buttlar did in November 1914, where the two German officers could have first made contact.\nAs \"A.16/15\" still bore the green color of von Buttlar's old unit, the aircraft became distinctive as Parschau's 'Green Machine', right from the outbreak of World War I. Parschau flew this machine on a roving commission for nearly a year, serving with FFAs 22 and 42 and the aforementioned \"BAO\" unit, which was actually a group of four FFA units operating as one for the \"Oberste Heeresleitung\" or OHL, the World War I German Army's High Command office. In this period, Parschau flew his distinctive machine on the Champagne front during October and November 1914. Following this were periods in Flanders and Alsace-Lorraine before Parschau was posted first to West Prussia and then on to Galicia on the Eastern Front. His travels were marked on the Fokker's fuselage. This same aircraft would be the very first airframe ever to be fitted with a workable synchronization gear, and was equipped with the Fokker \"Stangensteuerung\" synchronizer — along with one Parabellum MG14 machine gun for its armament — in late May 1915 for Parschau's use and combat evaluation, and to function as the prototype Fokker Eindecker.\n\nBecause Parschau was recognised as an experienced and proficient pilot, he was selected to go to FFA 62 at Douai as an instructor on monoplanes. Amongst his students at FFA 62 were the notable pioneer German flying aces, Max Immelmann and Oswald Boelcke. Despite his earlier complaints of his Parabellum machine gun jamming, he managed to reel off a string of six victories over enemy airplanes between 11 October 1915 and 2 July 1916 as part of the Fokker Scourge. On 3 July 1916, he shot down an enemy observation balloon. In July 1916 he transferred to FFA 32, gaining his 8th victory on 9 July 1916. He was awarded the Pour le Merite the following day. On the 14th, AKN was severed from FFA 32 and Parschau was appointed to its command.\n\nOn 21 July 1916 Parschau was mortally wounded during combat with the Royal Flying Corps over Grévillers. He was severely wounded in the chest and also suffered a glancing bullet wound to the head, possibly from rounds fired by John Oliver Andrews. He retained enough control to land his plane behind German lines, and was rushed to a field hospital but died on the operating table.\n\n"}
{"id": "164406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164406", "title": "Scorched earth", "text": "Scorched earth\n\nA scorched-earth policy is a military strategy that aims to destroy anything that might be useful to the enemy while it is advancing through or withdrawing from a location. Any assets that could be used by the enemy may be targeted, for example food sources, water supplies, transportation, communications, industrial resources, and even the locale's people themselves.\n\nThe practice can be carried out by the military in enemy territory, or in its own home territory. It may overlap with, but it is not the same as, punitive destruction of the enemy's resources, which is done for purely strategic/political reasons rather than strategic/operational reasons.\n\nNotable historic examples of scorched-earth tactics include the Russian army's strategy during the failed Swedish invasion of Russia, the failed Napoleonic invasion of Russia, William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea in the American Civil War, colonel Kit Carson's subjugation of the American Navajo Indians, Lord Kitchener's advance against the Boers, the initial Soviet retreat commanded by Joseph Stalin during the German Army's invasion of the Soviet Union in the Second World War, and the subsequent Nazi German retreat on the Eastern Front.\n\nThe strategy of destroying the food and water supply of the civilian population in an area of conflict has been banned under Article 54 of Protocol I of the 1977 Geneva Conventions. The relevant passage says:\n\nThe concept of \"scorched earth\" is sometimes applied figuratively to the business world, where a firm facing a takeover attempt will make itself a lesser prize by selling off its assets.\n\nThe Scythians used scorched-earth methods against King Darius the Great of Persia, during his European Scythian campaign. The Scythians, who were nomadic herders, evaded the Persians and retreated into the depths of the Steppes, destroying food supplies and poisoning wells. Many of Darius' troops died from starvation and dehydration.\n\nThe Greek general Xenophon records in his \"Anabasis\" that the Armenians burned their crops and food supplies as they withdrew before the advance of the Ten Thousand.\n\nThe Greek mercenary general Memnon suggested to the Persian Satraps the use of the scorched-earth policy against Alexander as he moved into Asia Minor. He was refused.\n\nThe system of punitive destruction of property and subjugation of people when accompanying a military campaign was known as \"vastatio\". Two of the first uses of scorched earth recorded both happened in the Gallic Wars. The first was used when the Celtic Helvetii were forced to evacuate their homes in Southern Germany and Switzerland due to incursions of unfriendly Germanic tribes: to add incentive to the march, the Helvetii destroyed everything they could not bring. After the Helvetii were defeated by a combined Roman-Gallic force, the Helvetii were forced to rebuild themselves on the shattered German and Swiss plains they themselves had destroyed.\n\nThe second case shows actual military value: during the Great Gallic War the Gauls under Vercingetorix planned to lure the Roman armies into Gaul and then trap and obliterate them. To this end, they ravaged the countryside of what are now the Benelux countries and France. This did cause immense problems for the Romans, but Roman military triumphs over the Gallic alliance showed that this alone was not enough to save Gaul from subjugation by Rome.\n\nDuring the Second Punic War in 218–202 BC, the Carthaginians used this method selectively while storming through Italy. After the end of the Third Punic War in 146 BC, the Roman Senate also elected to use this method to permanently destroy the Carthaginian capital city, Carthage (near modern-day Tunis). The buildings were torn down, their stones scattered so not even rubble remained, and the fields were burned. However, the story that they salted the earth is apocryphal.\n\nIn the year AD 363, the Emperor Julian's invasion of Sassanid Persia was turned back by a scorched-earth policy:\n\nBritish monk Gildas, whose sixth-century treatise \"On the Ruin of Britain\" wrote about an earlier invasion \"For the fire of vengeance … spread from sea to sea … and did not cease, until, destroying the neighbouring towns and lands, it reached the other side of the island.\"\n\nDuring the First Islamic Civil War (656-661), Muawiyah I sent Busr ibn Abi Artat to a campaign in the Hejaz and Yemen to ravage territory loyal to Muawiyah's opponent Ali ibn Abi Talib. According to Tabari, 30,000 civilians are estimated to have been killed during this campaign. Muawiyah also sent Sufyan ibn Awf to Iraq to burn the crops and homes of Ali's supporters.\n\nDuring the great Viking invasion of England opposed by Alfred the Great and various other Saxon and Welsh rulers, the Viking chieftain Hastein in late summer 893 marched his men to Chester to occupy the ruined Roman fortress there. The refortified fortress should have made an excellent base for raiding northern Mercia, but the Mercians are recorded as having taken the drastic measure of destroying all crops and livestock in the surrounding countryside in order to starve the Danes out. The Danes left Chester next year and marched into Wales.\n\nIn the Harrying of the North, William the Conqueror's solution to stop a rebellion in 1069 was the brutal conquest and subjugation of the North of England. William's men burnt whole villages from the Humber to Tees, and slaughtered the inhabitants. Food stores and livestock were destroyed so that anyone surviving the initial massacre would soon succumb to starvation over the winter. The destruction is depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry. The survivors were reduced to cannibalism, with one report stating that the skulls of the dead were cracked open so that the brains could be eaten. Between 100,000 and 150,000 perished and the area took centuries to recover from the damage.\n\nDuring the Hundred Years' War, both the English and the French conducted chevauchée raids over the enemy territory to damage its infrastructure.\n\nRobert the Bruce counselled using these operational methods to hold off the English King Edward's forces when the English invaded Scotland, according to an anonymous 14th-century poem:\nIn 1336, the defenders of Pilėnai in Lithuania set their castle on fire and committed mass suicide in order to make the attacking Teutonic Order's victory a costly one.\n\nThe strategy was widely used in the Romanian principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia. Prince Mircea I of Wallachia used it against the Ottomans in 1395 and Prince Stephen III of Moldavia scorched the earth in his country as the Ottoman army advanced in 1475 and 1476.\nA slighting is the deliberate destruction, partial or complete, of a fortification without opposition. Sometimes, such as during the Wars of Scottish Independence and the English Civil War, the intention was to render the structure unusable as a fortress. In England, during the Middle Ages adulterine (unauthorised) castles if captured by the king would usually be slighted. During the Wars of Scottish Independence, Robert the Bruce adopted a strategy of slighting Scottish castles to prevent them being occupied by the invading English. A strategy of slighting castles in Palestine was also adopted by the Mamelukes in their wars with the Crusaders.\n\nFurther British use of scorched-earth policies in a war was seen during the 16th century in Ireland, where it was used by English commanders such as Walter Devereux and Richard Bingham.\n\nThe Desmond Rebellions are a famous case in Ireland. Much of the province of Munster was laid waste. The poet Edmund Spenser left an account of it:\n\nIn 1630, Field-Marshal General Torquato Conti was in command of Imperial forces during the Thirty Years' War. Forced to retreat from the advancing Swedish army of King Gustavus Adolphus, Conti ordered his troops to burn houses, destroy villages and generally cause as much harm to property and people as possible. His actions were remembered thus:\n\nDuring the Great Northern War, Peter the Great's Russian forces used scorched-earth tactics to hold back Swedish King Charles XII's campaign towards Moscow.\n\nIn 1462, a massive Ottoman army led by Sultan Mehmed II marched into Wallachia. Vlad the Impaler retreated to Transylvania. During his departure, he conducted scorched-earth tactics to ward off Sultan Mehmed II's approach. When the Ottoman forces approached Tirgoviste, they encountered over 20,000 people impaled by the forces of Vlad the Impaler, creating a \"forest\" of dead or dying bodies on stakes. This atrocious, gut-wrenching sight caused Sultan Mehmed II to withdraw from battle and instead send Radu, Vlad's brother, to fight Vlad the Impaler.\n\nIn early 1565, Grandmaster Jean Parisot de Valette ordered the harvesting of all the crops in Malta, including unripened grain, to deprive the Ottomans of any local food supplies since spies had warned of an imminent Ottoman attack. Furthermore, the Knights poisoned all wells with bitter herbs and dead animals. The Ottomans arrived on 18 May of that year, and the Great Siege of Malta began. The Ottomans managed to capture one fort but were eventually defeated by the Knights, the Maltese militia and a Spanish relief force.\n\nIn 1688, France attacked the German Palatinate. The German states responded to this by forming an alliance and assembling a sizeable armed force to push the French out of Germany. The French had not prepared for such an eventuality. Realising that the war in Germany was not going to end quickly and that the Rhineland \"blitz\" would not be a brief and decisive parade of French glory, Louis XIV and his War Minister Marquis de Louvois resolved upon a scorched-earth policy in the Palatinate, Baden and Württemberg, intent on denying enemy troops local resources and prevent them from invading French territory. By 20 December 1688 Louvois had selected all the cities, towns, villages and châteaux intended for destruction. On 2 March 1689 Count of Tessé torched Heidelberg; on 8 March Montclar levelled Mannheim. Oppenheim and Worms were finally destroyed on 31 May, followed by Speyer on 1 June, and Bingen on 4 June. In all, French troops burnt over 20 substantial towns as well as numerous villages.\n\nShivaji Maharaj had introduced scorched-earth tactics known as \"Ganimi Kava\"—his forces looted traders and businessmen from Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb's empire, and burnt down his cities. But they were strictly ordered not to rape or hurt the innocent civilians, and not to cause any sort of disrespect to any of the religious institutes.\n\nShivaji's son, Sambhaji Maharaj, was detested throughout the Mughal Empire for his scorched-earth tactics until he and his men were captured by Muqarrab Khan and his Mughal Army contingent of 25,000. On 11 March 1689, a panel of Mughal Qadis indicted and sentenced Sambhaji to death for condoning casual torture, arson, looting, and massacre of the emperor's subjects, but most prominently for giving shelter to Sultan Muhammad Akbar, the fourth son of Aurangzeb, who sought Sambhajiraje's aid in winning the Mughal throne from his emperor father. Sambhaji was particularly condemned for the three days of ravaging committed after the Battle of Burhanpur.\n\nIn the year 1747, the Marathas, led by Raghoji I Bhonsle, began to raid, pillage and annex the territories in Odisha belonging to the Mughal Empire's Nawab of Bengal, Alivardi Khan. The Maratha cavalry numbering 40,000 had sacked the town of Midnapore and set granaries and villages ablaze.\n\nDuring the 1810 (third) Napoleonic invasion of Portugal, the Portuguese population retreated towards Lisbon, ordered to destroy all the food supplies the French might capture, forage and shelter in a wide belt across the country. (Although effective food-preserving techniques had recently been invented, they were still not fit for military use because a suitably rugged container had not yet been invented.) The command was obeyed as a result of French plundering and general ill-treatment of civilians in the previous invasions, the poor, angered people would rather destroy anything that had to be left behind rather than leaving it to the French.\n\nAfter the Bussaco, Massená's army marched on to Coimbra where much of the city's old university and library were vandalised, houses and furniture were destroyed and the few civilians that did not seek refuge further south were murdered. While there were instances of similar behavior by British soldiers, considering that Portugal was their ally, such crimes were generally investigated, and those found punished. Coimbra's sack made the populace even more determined in leaving nothing and when the French armies reached the Lines of Torres Vedras on the way to Lisbon, French soldiers reported that the country \"seemed to empty ahead of them\". When Massená reached the city of Viseu, wanting to replenish his armies' dwindling food supplies, none of the inhabitants remained, and all there was to eat were grapes and lemons that, if eaten in large quantities, would be better laxatives than sources of calories. Low morale, hunger, disease, and indiscipline rendered the French Army of Portugal into a much weaker force and compelled their retreat next spring. This method was later recommended to Russia when Napoleon made his move.\nIn 1812 Czar Alexander I was able to render Napoleon Bonaparte's invasion of Russia useless by utilizing a scorched-earth retreat method, similar to that made by the Portuguese. As Russian forces withdrew from the advancing French army, they burned the countryside (and, allegedly, Moscow) over which they passed, leaving nothing of value for the pursuing French army. Encountering only desolate and useless land Napoleon's Grand Army was prevented from using its accustomed doctrine of living off the lands it conquered. Pushing relentlessly on despite dwindling numbers, the Grand Army met with disaster as the invasion progressed. Napoleon's army arrived in a virtually abandoned Moscow, which was a tattered starving shell of its former self that was largely due to the use of scorched-earth tactics by retreating Russians. Having essentially conquered nothing, Napoleon's troops retreated, and again the scorched-earth policy came into effect because even though some large supply dumps had been established on the advance, the route between these had both been scorched and marched over once already, so the French Army starved as it marched along the resource-depleted invasion route.\n\nIn August 1812, Argentine General Manuel Belgrano led the Jujuy Exodus, a massive forced displacement of people from the present-day Jujuy and Salta provinces to the south. The Jujuy Exodus was conducted by the patriot forces of the Army of the North that were battling a Royalist army.\n\nBelgrano, faced with the prospect of total defeat and territorial loss, ordered all people to pack their necessities, including food and furniture, and follow him, in carriages or on foot, together with whatever cattle and beasts of burden could endure the journey. The rest (houses, crops, food stocks, and also any objects made of iron) was to be burned, so as to deprive the loyalists of resources, following a strict scorched-earth policy. On 29 July 1812, Belgrano asked the people of Jujuy to \"show their heroism\" and join the march of the army under his command \"if, as you assure, you want to be free\". The punishment for ignoring the order was execution and the destruction of the defector's properties. Belgrano labored to win the support of the populace and later reported that most of the people had willingly followed him without the need of force.\n\nThe exodus started on 23 August and gathered people from Jujuy and Salta; people travelled south about 250 km, finally arriving at the banks of the Pasaje River, in the province of Tucumán, on the early hours of 29 August. The Patriots applied a scorched-earth policy so the Spaniards advanced into a wasteland. Belgrano’s army destroyed everything that could provide shelter or be useful to the Royalists.\n\nIn 1827, Ibrahim Pasha led an Ottoman-Egyptian combined force in a campaign to crash Greek revolutionaries in the Peloponnese. In response to Greek guerrilla attacks on his forces in the Peloponnese, Ibrahim launched a scorched earth campaign which threatened the population with starvation and deported many civilians into slavery in Egypt. He also allegedly planned to bring in Arab settlers, in order to replace the Greek population. The fires of burning villages and fields were clearly visible from Allied ships standing offshore. A British landing party reported that the population of Messinia was close to mass starvation. Ibrahim's scorched-earth policy caused much outrage in Europe, being one of the reasons the Great Powers (Great Britain, France and Russia) decisively intervened against him in the Battle of Navarino.\n\nU.S. attacks into the Philippine countryside often included scorched-earth campaigns where entire villages were burned and destroyed, torture (\"water cure\") and the concentration of civilians into \"protected zones\". Many of the civilian casualties resulted from disease and famine.\n\nIn the hunt for the Guerrilla General Emilio Aguinaldo American troops also poisoned water wells to try to force out the Filipino rebels.\n\nIn the American Civil War, Union forces under Sheridan and Sherman used the policy widely. General Sherman utilized this policy during his March to the Sea. \nSherman's tactics were an attempt to destroy the enemy's will and logistics through burning or destroying crops or other resources that might be used for the Confederate force. The next century of \"later generations of American war leaders would use in World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan.\" During Sherman's campaign, his \"men piled all deed books in front of the courthouse and burned them. The logic was that the big plantations would not be able to prove land ownership. These actions are the bane of Georgia and South Carolina genealogists.” Another instance in his campaign was when in \"for thirty-six days that army moved through Georgia, with very little opposition, pillaging the countryside. It was a sort of military promenade, requiring very little military skill in the performance, and as little personal prowess, as well trained union troops were deployed against defenseless citizens.\" \n\nAnother event, in response to Quantrill's raid on Lawrence, Kansas, and the many civilian casualties including killing 180 men, Brigadier General Thomas Ewing Jr., Sherman's brother-in-law, issued U.S. Army General Order No. 11 (1863) to order the near-total evacuation of three and a half counties in western Missouri, south of Kansas City, which were subsequently looted and burned by U.S. Army troops. Under Sherman's overall direction, General Sheridan followed this policy in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia and subsequently in the Indian Wars of the Great Plains.\n\nWhen General Grant's forces broke through Richmond's defenses, Jefferson Davis ordered the destruction of Richmond's militarily significant supplies; the resulting conflagration destroyed many – mainly commercial – buildings and some Southern warships docked on the James River. Civilians in panic were forced to escape the fires started by the Confederates.\n\nDuring the wars with Native American tribes of the American West, under James Carleton's direction, Kit Carson instituted a scorched-earth policy, burning Navajo fields and homes, and stealing or killing their livestock. He was aided by other Indian tribes with long-standing enmity toward the Navajos, chiefly the Utes. The Navajo were forced to surrender due to the destruction of their livestock and food supplies. In the spring of 1864, 8,000 Navajo men, women and children were forced to march 300 miles to Fort Sumner, New Mexico. Navajos call this \"The Long Walk.\" Many died along the way or during the next four years of their internment.\n\nA military expedition led by U.S. Army Colonel Ranald S. Mackenzie was sent to the Texas Panhandle and Oklahoma Territory Panhandle area in 1874 to remove the Indians to reservations in Oklahoma. The Mackenzie expedition captured about 1,200 of the Indians' horses, drove them into Tule Canyon, and shot them all. Denied their main source of livelihood and demoralized, the Comanche and Kiowa abandoned the area (see Palo Duro Canyon).\n\nLord Kitchener applied scorched-earth policy during the latter part of the Second Boer War (1899–1902). The Boers, refusing to accept military defeat, adopted the first modern form of what we know today as guerrilla warfare, despite the capture of their two capital cities. As a result, the British ordered destruction of the farms and the homes of civilians in order to prevent the still-fighting Boers from obtaining food and supplies. An eloquent description of this comes from an Army officer at the time. This destruction left women and children without means to survive since crops and livestock were also destroyed.\n\nThe existence of the concentration camps was exposed by Emily Hobhouse, who toured the camps and began petitioning the British government to change its policy. In an attempt to counter Hobhouse's activism, the British commissioned the Fawcett Commission, that confirmed Hobhouse's findings. The British later perceived the concentration camps as a humanitarian measure, to care for displaced persons until the war was ended, in response to the Hobhouse and Fawcett reports. Negligence by the British, lack of planning and supplies and overcrowding led to much loss of life. A decade after the war P.L.A. Goldman officially determined that an astonishing number of 27,927 Boers died in the concentration camps: 26,251 women and children (of whom more than 22,000 were under the age of 16), and 1,676 men over the age of 16, of whom 1,421 were aged persons.\n\nIn 1868, Tūhoe sheltered the Māori leader Te Kooti, and for this were subjected to a scorched-earth policy, in which their crops and buildings were destroyed and their people of fighting age were captured.\n\nIn World War I, Imperial Russian army forces created a zone of destruction by using a large-scale scorched-earth strategy during their retreat from the German army in the summer/autumn of 1915. The Russian troops, retreating along a front of more than 600 miles, destroyed anything that might be of use to their enemy, including crops, houses, railways and entire cities. They also forcibly removed huge numbers of people. In pushing the Russians back to their homeland, the German army gained a large area of territory from the Russian Empire (in an area that is today Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Latvia and Lithuania).\n\nOn 24 February 1917, the German army made a strategic scorched-earth withdrawal from the Somme battlefield to the prepared fortifications of the Hindenburg Line, thereby shortening the front line they had to occupy. Since a scorched-earth campaign requires that there be a war of movement, World War I provided little opportunity in general for this policy as it was a stalemated war fought mostly in the same concentrated area for its entire duration.\n\nDuring the Greco-Turkish War (1919–22), the retreating Greek army carried out a scorched-earth policy while fleeing from Anatolia during the final phase of the war. Historian of the Middle East, Sydney Nettleton Fisher wrote that: \"The Greek army in retreat pursued a burned-earth policy and committed every known outrage against defenceless Turkish villagers in its path.\" Norman M. Naimark noted that \"the Greek retreat was even more devastating for the local population than the occupation\".\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War, the Imperial Japanese Army had a scorched-earth policy, known as \"Three Alls Policy\". Due to the Japanese scorched-earth policy, immense environmental and infrastructure damage have been recorded. Additionally, it contributed to the complete destruction of entire villages and partial destruction of entire cities like Chongqing or Nanjing.\n\nThe Chinese National Revolutionary Army destroyed dams and levees in an attempt to flood the land to slow down the advancement of Japanese soldiers, further adding to the environmental impact. This policy resulted in the 1938 Huang He flood.\n\nWhen Germany attacked the Soviet Union in June 1941, many district governments took the initiative to begin a 'partial' scorched-earth policy in order to deny the invaders access to electrical, telecommunications, rail, and industrial resources. Parts of the telegraph network were destroyed, some rail and road bridges were blown up, most electrical generators were sabotaged through the removal of key components, and many mineshafts were collapsed. The process was repeated later in the war by the German forces of Army Group North and Erich von Manstein's Army Group Don, which stole crops, destroyed farms, and razed settlements of at least city size and smaller during several military operations. The rationale for this policy was that it would slow pursuing Soviet forces by forcing them to save their own civilians, though in Manstein's postwar memoirs at the very least the policy was justified as a means of preventing the Soviets from stealing the food and shelter from their own civilians. The best-known victims of the German scorched-earth policy were the people of the historic city of Novgorod, whose hometown was razed during the Winter of 1944 to cover Army Group North's retreat from Leningrad.\n\nNear the end of the Summer of 1944, Finland, which had made a separate peace with the Allies, was required to evict the German forces, which had been fighting against the Soviets alongside Finnish troops in the Northern part of the country. The Finnish forces, under the leadership of general Hjalmar Siilasvuo, struck aggressively in August 1944 by making a landfall at Tornio. This accelerated the German retreat, and by November 1944 the Germans had left most of northern Finland. The German forces, forced to retreat due to an overall strategic situation, covered their retreat towards Norway by devastating large areas of northern Finland using scorched-earth strategy. More than one-third of the dwellings in the area were destroyed, and the provincial capital Rovaniemi was burned to the ground. All but two bridges in Lapland Province were blown up and all roads were mined. In Northern Norway which was at the same time invaded by Soviet forces in pursuit of the retreating German army in 1944, the Germans also undertook a scorched-earth policy, destroying every building that could offer shelter and thus interposing a belt of \"scorched earth\" between themselves and the allies.\n\nIn 1945, Adolf Hitler ordered his minister of armaments Albert Speer to carry out a nationwide scorched-earth policy, in what became known as the Nero Decree. Speer, who was looking to the future, actively resisted the order, just as he had earlier refused Hitler's command to destroy French industry when the Wehrmacht was being driven out of France and he managed to continue doing so even after Hitler became aware of his actions.\n\nDuring the Second World War the railroad plough was used in Germany, Czechoslovakia and other countries, denying the enemy's use of railroads by partially destroying them while retreating.\n\nBritain was the first nation to employ herbicides and defoliants (chiefly Agent Orange) to destroy the crops and bushes of communist insurgents in Malaya during the Malayan Emergency in the 1950s. The intent was to prevent the insurgents from using them as a cover to ambush passing convoys of British troops and to destroy the peasants' ability to support them.\n\nIn response to India's invasion on the 451 year old Portuguese Colony of Goa in December 1961 during the Annexation of Portuguese India, orders delivered from the Portuguese President called for a scorched-earth policy — that Goa was to be destroyed before it was given up to the Indians.\n\nHowever, despite his orders from Lisbon, Governor General Manuel António Vassalo e Silva took stock of the numerical superiority of the Indian troops, as well as the food and ammunition supplies available to his forces and took the decision to surrender. He later described his orders to destroy Goa as \"um sacrifício inútil\" (a useless sacrifice).\n\nThe U.S. employed Agent Orange, as a part of its herbicidal warfare program, Operation Ranch Hand, to destroy crops and foliage in order to expose possible enemy hideouts during the Vietnam War. Agent Blue was used on rice fields to deny food to the Vietcong.\n\nDuring the Gulf War in 1990 when Iraqi forces were driven out of Kuwait, they set more than 600 Kuwaiti oil wells on fire. This was done as part of a scorched-earth policy while retreating from Kuwait in 1991 after invading the country but being driven out by Coalition military forces (\"see Gulf War\"). The fires were started between January to February 1991 and the last one was extinguished by November 1991.\n\nEfraín Ríos Montt utilized this method in the Guatemalan highlands in 1981-1982, though scorched-earth tactics were first used under the previous president Romeo Lucas García. Upon entering office, Ríos Montt implemented a new counterinsurgency strategy that called for the use of scorched earth to combat the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca rebellion, known as Plan Victoria 82 or, more commonly, by the nickname of the rural pacification elements of this strategy - Fusiles y Frijoles (Bullets and Beans). Ríos Montt's policies resulted in the death of thousands (most of them indigenous Mayans).\n\nThe Indonesian military used this method when the British forces in Bandung during Indonesian National Revolution gave an ultimatum for the Indonesian combatants to leave the city. In response, the southern part of Bandung was deliberately burned down in an act of defiance as the combatants left the city on 24 March 1946. This event is known as the Bandung Sea of Fire or \"Bandung Lautan Api\".\n\nThe Indonesian military and pro-Indonesia militias also used this method in their Timor-Leste Scorched Earth campaign around the time of East Timor's referendum for independence in 1999.\n\nThe method was used during the Yugoslav Wars, such as against the Serbs in Krajina by the Croatian Army, and by Serbian paramilitary groups.\n\nThe Sudanese government has used scorched earth as a military strategy in Darfur.\n\nDuring the Sri Lankan Civil War in 2009 the United Nations Regional Information Centre (UNRIC) has accused the Sri Lankan government of utilizing scorched-earth tactics.\n\nDuring the 2011 Libyan civil war, forces loyal to Moammar Gadhafi planted a large number of landmines within the petroleum port of Brega to prevent advancing rebel forces from utilizing the port facilities. Additionally Libyan rebel forces practiced scorched-earth policies when they completely demolished and refused to rebuild critical infrastructure in towns and cities formerly loyal to Moammar Gadhafi such as Sirte and Tawargha.\n\nDuring the Syrian civil war, forces loyal to Bashar al-Assad based in northern Syria burnt large swathes of trees and forests which were being used as cover by Free Syrian Army fighters who hid among the trees when not in combat. The forests were mostly burnt in northern parts of the provinces of Aleppo, Idlib, and Latakia, with the fires occasionally spreading across the border into Turkey . At first, the forests were burnt by premeditated arson, but once the Assad loyalists withdrew from those areas, they relied on artillery fire to burn the forests. Environmental damage is said to take up to 80 years for full recovery.\n"}
{"id": "14618153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14618153", "title": "Siege of Ma'arra", "text": "Siege of Ma'arra\n\nThe Siege of Maarat, or Ma'arra, occurred in late 1098 in the city of Ma'arrat al-Numan, in what is modern-day Syria, during the First Crusade. It is infamous for the claims of widespread cannibalism displayed by the Crusaders.\n\nAfter the Crusaders, led by Raymond de Saint Gilles and Bohemond of Taranto, successfully besieged Antioch, they started to raid the surrounding countryside during the winter months. The Crusaders had been ineffective in assessing and protecting their supply lines, which led to widespread hunger and lack of proper equipment within the Crusader armies.\n\nIn July 1098, Raymond Pilet, a knight in the army of Raymond de Saint Gilles, led an expedition against Maarat, an important city on the road south towards Damascus. His troops met a much larger Muslim garrison in the town and they were completely routed with many casualties. For the rest of the summer the crusaders continued their march south and captured many other small towns, and arrived again at Maarat in November.\n\nAround the end of November, thousands of crusaders started to besiege the city. The citizens were at first unconcerned, since Raymond Pilet's expedition had been such a failure, and they taunted the crusaders. The crusaders could also not afford to conduct a lengthy siege, as winter was approaching and they had few supplies, but they were also unable to break through the city's defenses, consisting of a deep ditch and strong walls.\n\nThe defenders of the city, mostly an urban militia and inexperienced citizens, managed to hold off the attacks for about two weeks. The crusaders spent this time building a siege tower, which allowed them to pour over the walls of the city, while at the same time a group of knights scaled the undefended walls on the other side of the city.\n\nThe crusaders occupied the walls on December 11. The Muslims retreated into the city, and both sides prepared to rest for the night, but the poorer crusaders rushed through and plundered Maarat. On the morning of December 12, the garrison negotiated with Bohemond, who promised them safe conduct if they surrendered. The Muslims surrendered, but the crusaders immediately began to massacre the population. Meanwhile, Bohemond seized control of the walls and towers while Raymond of Toulouse took control of the interior of the city, continuing their dispute over who would rule conquered territories.\n\nMaarat was not as rich as the crusaders had hoped and they were still short of supplies and food as December progressed. Most of the soldiers and knights preferred to continue the march to Jerusalem, caring little for the political dispute between Bohemond and Raymond, and Raymond tried to buy the support of the other leaders. While the leaders negotiated away from the city, some of the starving crusaders at Maarat reportedly resorted to cannibalism, feeding on the dead bodies of Muslims.\n\nA chronicler, Radulph of Caen in his contemporaneous account, \"Gesta Tancredi\" wrote, \"Some people said that, constrained by the lack of food, they boiled pagan adults in cooking-pots, impaled children on spits and devoured them grilled.\" These events were also chronicled by Fulcher of Chartres, who wrote:\nThe events described by Radulph of Caen have been disputed. The famine and cannibalism are recognised as described by Fulcher of Chartres, but the torture and the killing of Muslim captives for cannibalism by Radulph of Caen are very unlikely since no Arab or Muslim records of the events exist. Had they occurred, they would have probably been recorded. That has been noted by BBC Timewatch series, the episode \"The Crusades: A Timewatch Guide\", which included experts Dr Thomas Asbridge and Muslim Arabic historian Dr Fozia Bora, who state that Radulph of Caen's description does not appear in any contemporary Muslim chronicle.\n\nThe crusaders also began destroying Maarat's fortifications, forcing Raymond to finally agree to continue the march south.\n\nAlbert of Aix remarked that \"the Christians did not shrink from eating not only killed Turks or Saracens, but even creeping dogs...\" (\"Nam Christiani non solum Turcos vel Sarracenos occisos, verum etiam canes arreptos (...)\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53216174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53216174", "title": "Sitting and Smiling", "text": "Sitting and Smiling\n\nSitting and Smiling is an endurance art performance by Benjamin Bennett. In a typical performance, Bennett looks into a video camera which is recording him while sitting and smiling motionless for four hours.\n\nBennett uploaded his first \"Sitting and Smiling\" video on July 28, 2014. Over the next years he uploaded similar videos at a rate of about one per week. Currently, his videos have earned more than 15.1 million views with over 196 thousand subscribers. \n\nBennett cites Claire Bishop's 2012 \"Artificial Hells: Participatory Art and the Politics of Spectatorship\" as an inspiration for his art.\n\nDuring the fifth installment of his stream, a burglar broke into his house. He kicked down the door into Bennett's house. The thief entered the room he was streaming in and said \"Hello?\", and quickly left. The incident generated attention online and the video currently has over 5 million views.\n\nIn a separate incident in his 52nd livestream, Benjamin clearly urinates himself, with a wet puddle seeping out from under him and gradually evaporating over the remainder of the footage. He never acknowledges this or breaks his composure and continues to sit and smile to the camera.\n\nOfficial Website\n\nOfficial Youtube Channel\n"}
{"id": "17258551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17258551", "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil nationalism", "text": "Sri Lankan Tamil nationalism\n\nSri Lankan Tamil nationalism is the conviction of the Sri Lankan Tamil people, a minority ethnic group in the South Asian island country of Sri Lanka (formerly known as Ceylon), that they have the right to constitute an independent or autonomous political community. This idea has not always existed. Sri Lankan Tamil national awareness began during the era of British rule during the nineteenth century, as Tamil Hindu revivalists tried to counter Protestant missionary activity. The revivalists, led by Arumuga Navalar, used literacy as a tool to spread Hinduism and its principles.\n\nThe reformed legislative council, introduced in 1921 by the British, was based on principles of communal representation, which led the Tamils to realize that they were the minority ethnic group and that they should be represented by a member of their own community. It was under this communal representation that Tamil national awareness changed to national consciousness—a less passive state. They formed a Tamil political party called the All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC). In the years leading to Sri Lankan independence, political tension began to develop between the majority Sinhalese and minority Tamil communities as the ACTC, citing the possibility of the majority Sinhalese adopting a dominant posture, pushed for “fifty-fifty” representation in parliament. This policy would allot half the seats in parliament to the Sinhalese majority and half to the minority communities: Ceylon Tamils, Indian Tamils, Muslims and others.\n\nAfter Sri Lanka achieved independence in 1948, the ACTC decided to merge with the ruling United National Party (UNP). This move was not supported by half of the ACTC members and resulted in a split—one half of the party decided to merge with the UNP and the other half decided to leave the party altogether, forming a new Tamil party in 1949, the Federal party. Policies adopted by successive Sinhalese governments, and the 1956 success of the Sinhala Nationalist government under Solomon Bandaranaike, made the Federal Party the main voice of Tamil politics. Increased racial and political tension between the two communities led to the merger of all Tamil political parties into the Tamil United Liberation Front. This was followed by the emergence of a militant, armed form of Tamil nationalism.\n\nThe arrival of Protestant missionaries on a large scale to Sri Lanka (then called Ceylon), beginning in 1814, was a primary contributor to the development of political awareness among Tamils. The activities of missionaries from the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Methodists and Anglican churches led to a revival among Tamils of the Hindu faith. Arumuga Navalar led a Hindu religious revivalist and reformist movement as a defensive response to the threat to their native culture posed by the British colonial and missionary activities. He translated literary works to encourage the use of the Tamil Language and spread Hindu Saiva principles. Navalar’s efforts to revive Hinduism, the predominant religion of the Sri Lankan Tamil people, influenced Tamils who built their own schools, temples, and societies, and who published literature to counter that of the missionaries. Thus, by 1925 nearly 50 schools, including the Batticotta Seminary, were fully functioning. This revival movement also set the stage for modern Tamil prose.\n\nThe success of this effort led the Tamils to think confidently of themselves as a community and prepared the way for their awareness of a common cultural, religious and linguisitic kinship in the mid-nineteenth century.\nFor these contributions to the Tamil people, Arumugam Navalar has been described as a leader who gave his community a distinct identity.\n\nGreat Britain controlled the whole island by 1815, and unified the country administratively in 1833 with a legislative council that acted as advisor to the Governor. The council was composed of three Europeans and one representative each of the Sinhalese, the Sri Lankan Tamils, and the Burghers. But this situation changed in 1919 with the arrival of British Governor William Manning, who actively encouraged the idea of \"communal representation\". He created the reformed legislative council in 1921 and its first election returned thirteen Sinhalese and three Tamils, a significant loss in representation for the Tamils when compared to the previous council based on direct appointment by the governor. Because of this, the Tamils began to develop a communal consciousness and to think of themselves as a minority community. They focused on communal representation in the council rather than national representation, and decided that their delegates should be leaders from their own community. This new sense of community identity changed the direction of Tamil nationalism. Starting in the mid-1920s, their developing national awareness transformed into a more active national consciousness, with a heightened determination to protect the interests of the Ceylon Tamil community. Influenced heavily by political history and, perhaps more importantly, Colombo-centered developments of the British administration, this emerging Tamil national consciousness led to the establishment of the All Ceylon Tamil Congress headed by Tamil politician, G. G. Ponnambalam.\n\nHistoric changes occurred in 1931: the reformed legislative council was eliminated, and the Donoughmore Commission, which rejected communal representation, was formed. Instead, the Commission introduced universal franchise, in which representation was proportionate to percentage of population. The Tamil leadership strongly opposed this plan, realizing that they would be reduced to a minority in parliament. Many Sinhalese were also against the idea of universal franchise for all castes. G.G. Ponnambalam publicly protested the Donooughmore Commission and proposed to the Soulbury Commission, which had replaced the Donooughmore Commission, that roughly equal numbers of congressional seats be assigned to Tamils and to Sinhalese in the new independent Ceylon being planned, but his proposal was rejected. From the introduction of the advisory council, through the Donoughmore Commission in 1931, to the Soulbury Commission in 1947, the primary dispute between the elite of the Sinhalese and Tamils was over the question of representation, not the structure of the government. This issue of power-sharing was used by the nationalists of both communities to create an escalating inter-ethnic rivalry which has been gaining momentum ever since.\n\nPonnambalam's advocacy of Tamil nationalism was paralleled by a similar Sinhala nationalism of Sinhala Maha Sabha, led by future Prime Minister Solomon Bandaranaike. This created tension between the two leaders and caused the exchange of verbal attacks, with Ponnampalam calling himself a \"proud Dravidian\". This interethnic and political stress led to the first Sinhala-Tamil riot in 1939.(see \"Riots and pogroms in Sri Lanka\")\n\nThe All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC), founded by G. G. Ponnambalam in 1944, was popular among Tamils because it promoted the preservation of Tamil identity. The ACTC advocated a \"fifty-fifty\" policy, in which fifty percent of the seats in parliament would be reserved for Tamils and other minorities, the remaining fifty percent going to the Sinhalese. Which means 50% of the opportunities [education (university seats), employment, etc.) should be allocated to minorities. According to the ACTC this was a necessary defensive measure to prevent unwarranted dominance by the Sinhalese. In 1947, Ponnambalam warned the Soulbury Commission about this potential problem, and presented the ACTC's solution, which he called a \"balanced representation\". This fifty-fifty policy was opposed by a Muslim minority and sections of the Tamil community. D. S. Senanayake, the leader of the Sinhalese political groups, allowed Ponnambalam full control over presentations before the Soulbury Commission, prevented Sinhalese nationalists such as Solomon Bandaranaike from taking the stage, and avoided the eruption of acrimonious arguments. But the Soulbury commission rejected the charges of discrimination against the Tamils, and also rejected the fifty-fifty formula as subverting democracy.\n\nLater the ACTC decided to adopt a new policy: \"responsive cooperation\" with \"progressive-minded Sinhalese\". Yet in 1948, Ponnampalam decided to merge the ACTC with the ruling United National Party (UNP), although he had stated earlier that the UNP was not progressive-minded. The merge was not supported by the entire party, and it ended up splitting the ACTC in half, with one faction merging with D.S. Senanayake’s UNP and the other, led by S.J.V. Chelvanayakam, deciding to leave the party altogether and advocated for equal rights, 100% opportunities for Tamils without any racial barrier. In 1948, Ponnampalam voted in favour of one of several bills, later known as the Ceylon Citizenship Act which disenfranchised Indian Tamils (\"Hill Country Tamils\"). Although he did not vote for the other bills in the Ceylon Citizenship Act, because of his silence in parliament the Tamil public believed that he was not committed to Indian Tamil rights. The ACTC remained the major Tamil political party until 1956, when the Federal Party took over that position. The Tamil Congress still held parliamentary positions, however, and continued to be a force in Tamil politics. In 1976, the ACTC merged with other Tamil political factions to form a new party called the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF). According to A.J. Wilson, it was the legacy of Ponnampalam that the consciousness of the Tamil people was raised, and they were inspired to see themselves as a separate Tamil national identity rather as merged in an all-island polity.\n\nIn 1949, a new Tamil party, called the Federal Party (\"Ilankai Thamil Arasu Kadchi\"), was organized by the people who broke away from the ACTC. Led by Chelvanayakam, it gained popularity among the Tamil people because it advocated Tamil rights. Its popularity was also due to the party's opposition to the Ceylon Citizenship Act and the Sinhala Only Act. As a result, the Federal party became the dominant party in the Tamil districts after the 1956 elections. Despite this, the Federal Party never asked for a separate Tamil state or even for self-determination. Instead they lobbied for a unified state which gave Tamil and Sinhalese equal status as the official language and provided for considerable autonomy in the Tamil areas.\nIt was against this backdrop that the Bandaranaike-Chelvanayakam Pact was signed in July 1957, but pressure from the opposition and extremist groups forced Bandaranaike to abolish the pact. After the assassination of Bandaranaike, another pact was signed in 1965 between Chelvanayakam and Dudley Senenayake called the Dudley-Chelvanayakam Pact, but this agreement, like the Bandaranaike-Chelvanayakam pact, was never implemented. The UNP was defeated in the 1970 election and replaced by the United Front (UF), led by Sirimavo Bandaranaike, the widow of Solomon Bandaranaike.\n\nThe new government adopted two new policies that discriminated against the Tamil people. First, the government introduced a double standard for admission grades to universities, requiring the Tamil students to achieve higher grades than the Sinhalese students. Secondly, the same kind of policy was adopted for jobs as public servants, which were held by less than ten percent of the Tamil-speaking population. The Federal Party opposed these policies, and as a result Chelvanayakam resigned his parliamentary seat in October 1972. Shortly after, in 1973, the Federal Party decided to demand a separate, autonomous Tamil state. Until 1973, Chelvanayakam and the Federal Party had always campaigned for a unified country and thought that any partitioning would be “suicidal”. The new policies, however, were considered to be discriminatory by the Tamil leadership, and this modified the official position on Tamil Nationalism. To further the new political agenda, in 1975 the Federal Party merged with the other Tamil political parties to become the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF). In 1976, after the first national convention of TULF, the Ceylon Tamils moved toward a revised nationalism and were now unwilling to live within a confined, single-island entity.\n\nThe Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) was formed when the Tamil political parties merged and adopted the Vaddukoddai Resolution, named after the village, Vaddukoddai, where it was developed. In the 1977 election, TULF became the first Tamil Nationalist party to run on a separatist platform. It gained a majority of the votes in the north and east, won 18 seats, and became the largest opposition party in parliament. The Vaddukoddai Resolution had a profound effect on Tamil politics—the parliamentary system was soon to be replaced by guns. TULF tried to refashion itself as the political division, negotiating an agreement with the executive president of Sri Lanka at that time, J.R. Jayewardene. This agreement, known as the District Development Councils’ Scheme, was passed in 1980, but TULF rejected it because J.R. Jayewardene had not agreed to let TULF have the five District Ministerships in the five Tamil districts where TULF received the most votes. The Sixth Amendment was passed in 1983, requiring Tamils in parliament and other public offices to take an oath of allegiance to the unified state of Sri Lanka. It forbade the advocating of a separate state, and consequently TULF members were expelled from parliament for refusing to take the oath.\n\nAfter the expulsion of TULF from parliament, militants ruled the Tamil political movement. As a result, the 1970s saw the emergence of more than 30 Tamil militant groups. Anton Balasingham, the theoretician of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), states that the causes of the militarization of the Tamil youth were unemployment, lack of opportunities for higher education, and the imposition of an alien language. He further alleges that the majority Sinhalese government was responsible for these problems, adding that the only alternative left for Tamil youths was a \"revolutionary armed struggle for the independence of their nation\". Only five of the militant groups—People's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE), Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization (TELO), Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF), Eelam Revolutionary Organisation of Students (EROS) and LTTE—remained a potent political force; the rest were flawed ideologically and therefore not strictly Tamil Nationalist factions.\n\nOf these five dominant groups, the LTTE was the most solidly nationalistic Tamil resistance organization. Furthermore, because of its policies, constructive Tamil Nationalist platform, and desire for national self-determination, the LTTE was supported by major sections of the Tamil community. It had established a de facto state in the areas under its control, called Tamil Eelam, and had managed a government in these areas, providing state functions such as courts, a police force, a human rights organization, and a humanitarian assistance board. a health board, and an education board. In addition, it ran a bank (Bank of Tamil Eelam), a radio station (Voice of Tigers) and a television station (National Television of Tamil Eelam).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "264934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264934", "title": "Stephen Glass", "text": "Stephen Glass\n\nStephen Randall Glass (born September 15, 1972) is a former journalist and is currently employed at a law firm in Beverly Hills. In 1998, it was revealed that many of his published articles were fabrications. Over a three-year period as a young rising star at \"The New Republic\", Glass invented quotations, sources, and events in articles he wrote for that magazine and others. Most of Glass's articles were of the entertaining and humorous type. Some were based entirely on fictional events. Several seemed to endorse negative stereotypes about ethnic and political groups. In 2016, Glass revealed that he had repaid over $200,000 to \"The New Republic\" and other publications for his earlier fabrications.\n\nGlass holds a Juris Doctor degree from Georgetown University Law Center. Although he passed the bar exam in both New York and California, he withdrew his application to become a licensed attorney in New York in 2004 after being advised it would not succeed. In 2014, the California Supreme Court unanimously ruled that he should not be licensed in that state. Glass worked as a paralegal at a law firm for a number of years and was later promoted to Director of Special Projects and Trial Team Coordinator.\n\nHis career at \"The New Republic\" was dramatized in the 2003 film \"Shattered Glass\" in which Glass was portrayed by Hayden Christensen. Glass fictionalized his own story in \"The Fabulist\", a 2003 novel whose protagonist is named \"Stephen Aaron Glass\".\n\nGlass grew up in a Jewish family in the northern Chicago suburb of Highland Park. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania as University Scholar, where he was an executive editor of the student newspaper, \"The Daily Pennsylvanian\". His colleagues at the Daily Pennsylvanian included Sabrina Erdely who later became involved in a fabricated story scandal too owing to her Rolling Stone article \"A Rape on Campus\".\n\nAfter his 1994 graduation from Penn, Glass joined \"The New Republic\" in 1995 as an editorial assistant. Soon thereafter, the 23-year-old Glass advanced to writing features. While employed full-time at \"TNR\", he also wrote for other magazines including \"Policy Review\", \"George\", \"Rolling Stone\", and \"Harper's\" and contributed to Public Radio International's (PRI) weekly hour-long program \"This American Life\", hosted by Ira Glass (no relation to Stephen).\n\nGlass later graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Georgetown University Law Center with a Juris Doctor degree and was named John M. Olin Fellow in law and economics.\n\nAlthough Glass enjoyed loyalty from \"The New Republic\" staff, his reporting repeatedly drew outraged rebuttals from the subjects of his articles, eroding his credibility and leading to private skepticism from insiders at the magazine. The magazine's majority owner and editor-in-chief, Martin Peretz, later said that his wife had told him that she did not find Glass's stories credible and had stopped reading them.\n\nIn December 1996, the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) was the target of a hostile article by Glass called \"Hazardous to Your Mental Health.\" CSPI wrote a letter to the editor and issued a press release pointing out numerous inaccuracies and distortions, and hinting at possible plagiarism. The organization Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) accused Glass of falsehoods in his March 1997 article \"Don't You D.A.R.E.\"\n\nIn May 1997, Joe Galli of the College Republican National Committee accused Glass of fabrications in \"Spring Breakdown\", his lurid tale of drinking and debauchery at the 1997 Conservative Political Action Conference. A June 1997 article called \"Peddling Poppy\" about a Hofstra University conference on George H. W. Bush drew a letter from Hofstra reciting errors in the story. \"The New Republic\" defended Glass; editor Michael Kelly demanded CSPI apologize to Stephen Glass.\n\nOn May 18, 1998 \"The New Republic\" published a story by Glass (by then an associate editor) entitled \"Hack Heaven,\" purportedly telling the story of a 15-year-old hacker who had penetrated a company's computer network, then been hired by that company as a security consultant.\nThe article opened as follows:\n\nAdam Penenberg, a reporter with \"Forbes\" magazine, became suspicious when he found zero search engine results for \"Jukt Micronics,\" found that \"Jukt Micronics\" had just a single phone line, and saw that its website was extremely amateurish.\n\nChallenged, Glass claimed to have been duped by \"Restil.\" Glass took Charles Lane to the Bethesda, Maryland hotel at which Restil had purportedly met with the Jukt executives; Lane discovered that on the day of the claimed meeting the hotel's conference room had been closed and the restaurant where the hackers supposedly ate dinner afterwards closes in the early afternoon. Lane dialed a Palo Alto number provided by Glass and spoke with a man who identified himself as a Jukt executive; however, when he realized that the \"executive\" was actually Glass' brother, who attended Stanford University in Palo Alto, he fired Glass.\n\nLane later said:\n\"The New Republic\" subsequently determined that at least 27 of the 41 articles Glass wrote for the magazine contained fabricated material. Some of the 27, such as \"Don't You D.A.R.E.\", contained real reporting interwoven with fabricated quotations and incidents, while others, including \"Hack Heaven,\" were completely made up. In the process of creating the \"Hack Heaven\" article, Glass had gone to especially elaborate lengths to thwart the discovery of his deception by \"TNR\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s fact checkers: creating a website and voice mail account for Jukt Micronics; fabricating notes of story gathering; having fake business cards printed; and even composing editions of a fake computer hacker community newsletter.\n\nAs for the balance of the 41 stories, Lane, in an interview given for the 2005 DVD edition of \"Shattered Glass\", said, \"In fact, I'd bet lots of the stuff in those other 14 is fake too. ... It's not like we're vouching for those 14, that they're true. They're probably not either.\" \"Rolling Stone\", \"George\", and \"Harper's\" also re-examined his contributions. \"Rolling Stone\" and \"Harper's\" found the material generally accurate yet maintained they had no way of verifying information because Glass had cited anonymous sources. \"George\" discovered that at least three of the stories Glass wrote for it contained fabrications. Specifically, Glass fabricated quotations in a profile piece and apologized to the article's subject, Vernon Jordan, an adviser to then-President Bill Clinton. A court filing for Glass's application to the California bar gave an updated count on his journalism career: 36 of his stories at \"The New Republic\" were said to be fabricated in part or in whole, along with three articles for \"George\", two articles for \"Rolling Stone\", and one for \"Policy Review\".\n\nAfter journalism, Glass earned a law degree at Georgetown University Law Center. He then passed the New York State bar examination in 2000, but the Committee of Bar Examiners refused to certify him on its moral fitness test, citing ethics concerns related to his plagiarism. He later abandoned his efforts to be admitted to the bar in New York.\n\nIn 2003, Glass published a so-called \"biographical novel\", \"The Fabulist\". Glass sat for an interview with the weekly news program \"60 Minutes\" timed to coincide with the release of his book. \n\"The New Republic\" literary editor, Leon Wieseltier, complained, \"The creep is doing it again. Even when it comes to reckoning with his own sins, he is still incapable of nonfiction. The careerism of his repentance is repulsively consistent with the careerism of his crimes.\" One reviewer of \"The Fabulist\" commented, \"The irony—we must have irony in a tale this tawdry—is that Mr. Glass is abundantly talented. He's funny and fluent and daring. In a parallel universe, I could imagine him becoming a perfectly respectable novelist—a prize-winner, perhaps, with a bit of luck.\"\n\nAlso in 2003, Glass briefly returned to journalism, writing an article about Canadian marijuana laws for \"Rolling Stone\". On November 7, 2003, Glass participated in a panel discussion on journalistic ethics at George Washington University, along with the editor who had hired him at \"The New Republic\", Andrew Sullivan, who accused Glass of being a \"serial liar\" who was using \"contrition as a career move.\"\n\nA film about the scandal, \"Shattered Glass\", was released in October 2003 and depicted a stylized view of Glass's rise and fall at \"The New Republic\". The film, appearing shortly after \"The New York Times\" suffered a similar plagiarism scandal with the discovery of Jayson Blair's fabrications, occasioned critiques of the journalism industry itself by nationally prominent journalists such as Frank Rich and Mark Bowden.\n\nGlass was out of the public eye for several years following the release of his novel and the film. In 2007, he was performing with a Los Angeles comedy troupe known as Un-Cabaret, having earlier found employment at a small law firm, apparently as a paralegal.\n\nIn 2015, Glass again made the news after reportedly sending \"Harper's Magazine\" a check for $10,000 – what he was paid for the false articles – writing in the attached letter that he wanted \"to make right that part of my many transgressions...I recognize that repaying Harper's will not remedy my wrongdoing, make us even, or undo what I did wrong. That said, I did not deserve the money that Harper's paid me and it should be returned.\"\n\nIn 2009 Glass applied to join the State Bar of California. The Committee of Bar Examiners refused to certify him, finding that he did not satisfy California's moral fitness test because of his history of journalistic deception. Insisting that he had reformed, Glass then petitioned the State Bar Court's hearing department, which found that Glass possessed the necessary \"good moral character\" to be admitted as an attorney.\n\nThe Committee of Bar Examiners sought review in the State Bar's Review Department and filed a Writ of Review, thereby petitioning the California Supreme Court to review the decision. On November 16, 2011, the Supreme Court granted the petition, the first time in 11 years the court had granted review in a moral character case. On January 3, 2012, Glass's attorneys filed papers with the Court arguing that his behavior had been irreproachable for more than 13 years and this was proof that he had reformed.\n\nOn November 6, 2013, the California Supreme Court heard arguments in Glass's case and ruled unanimously against him in an opinion issued January 27, 2014. The lengthy opinion describes in minute detail the applicant's history, record, the bar's applicable standard of review, the appeal, and its own analysis of how Glass failed to satisfy the court's standards, concluding, \"On this record, he has not sustained his heavy burden of demonstrating rehabilitation and fitness for the practice of law.\" Based on this decision, Glass was barred from practicing law in the State of California.\n\n\n\nMany of the articles that Glass wrote for \"The New Republic\" are no longer available online. Below are links to some of those articles which Glass is suspected of fabricating in part or in whole:\n"}
{"id": "40312355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40312355", "title": "Teatro Español (Madrid)", "text": "Teatro Español (Madrid)\n\nTeatro Español (\"Español Theatre\" – former Teatro del Príncipe and Corral del Príncipe) is a public theater administered by the Government of Madrid, Spain. The prime location was an open-air theater in medieval times where small venues and some theatrical pieces, which formed famous classical literature in later years, were staged. Its establishment was authorized by a decree of Philip II in 1565.\n\nThe 18th century also marked the definitive consecration of Teatro del Príncipe, which had its own group of followers, the \"chorizos,\" in constant struggle with the \"polacos,\" who preferred the scenarios of the rival Teatro de la Cruz. By this time, Leandro Fernández de Moratín premiered \"La comedia nueva\" at Teatro del Príncipe. On 11 July 1802, the theater was engulfed by fire, to be re-opened five years later with the conclusion of the renovation work led by Juan de Villanueva.\n\nThe current building, erected in Neoclassical style according to a design of Román Guerrero, was built between 1887 and 1895 under the direction of Natalio Grueso. In the foreground of the theater is Plaza de Santa Ana, built after the demolishion of a 16th-century Carmelite monastery. The names of famous theater personalities are engraved on the façade, among them the name of Federico García Lorca.\n\nThe former \"Teatro del Príncipe,\" or \"Corral del Príncipe,\" was a theatre of zarzuelas acquired by the brotherhood \"Cofradía de la Pasión y de la Soledad\" on 9 February 1580. By the end of that year, \"Corral de la Pacheca\" was acquired by the same brotherhood, which also bought two other buildings from Álava de Ibarra, doctor to Philip II, and another sold by Don Rodrigo de Herrera. It was built from 7 May 1582 with opening on 21 September of the following year with a play by Vázquez and John of Ávila.\n\nThe theatre consisted of a stage, costume room, bleachers for men, ninety five portable banks, a hall for women, balconies with iron railings or grilles, master channels and roofs covering the stands. The courtyard was paved and an awning made to block the sun, but not the rain. This original structure was maintained until 1735, when a new building, concluded in ten years, was erected by architect Juan Bautista Sacchetti in cooperation with Ventura Rodríguez. At that time its name was changed from Corral del Príncipe to Teatro del Príncipe. Later, the site became a theater of work which was one of the largest in the country. In 1849, it was transformed into the current Teatro Español, the only theater in Madrid really similar to an ancient open-air theater.\n\nDuring the reign of Philip II, the City Council in Madrid established two permanent playhouses or \"corrales\". One was \"Corral de la Cruz\" and the other \"Teatro del Principe,\" both housed at Igelsia de San Sebastian. The fervor for theater plays among the population was so intense that two corral groups were formed, the \"chorizos\" and \"polacos.\" The followers of the first group were Philip IV and Lope de Vega, and the second the \"nobility.\" The rivalry between them was so intense to the extent of disturbing each other's programmes and closing theatres under the orders of Count Arnada, minister of Charles III.\n\nIn the 18th century both theaters were demolished and rebuilt in Italian architectural style with modern facilities such as an expansive stage with mechanized operation and artificial lighting.\n\nIn 1825, under the direction of French impresario John Grimaldi, the theatre underwent a series of improvements such as lighting and props in both structural and artistic fields. By royal decree, Teatro del Príncipe changed its name to Teatro Español in 1849. Its capacity was of 1,200 spectators and the owner the City Council, leased by the Government of Spain. Under the leadership of Minister of Internal Affairs José Luis Sartorius, a new model theatre was installed with the staging of \"Casa con dos puertas, mala es de guardar\" by Calderon de la Barca, on 8 April 1849. The playwright Ventura de la Vega was appointed director of the theater. A year later he was replaced by Tomás Rodríguez Rubí, until in May 1851 the theater passed back to the management of the municipality. In 1860, actor Manuel Catalina became director of the theatre.\n\nBetween 1887 and 1894, the architect Roman Guerrero extensively renovated the theater in its present appearance. The theatre reopened on 12 January 1895 with the play \"El desdén, con el desdén,\" with management via concession from the City Council by Roman Guerrero and then actress María Guerrero, who staged works of Benito Pérez Galdós, the Nobel Prize of Literature Jacinto Benavente's and José de Echegaray's. Guerrero retained the management of the theatre until 1909. Over the next two decades, the theatre was occupied under concession by successive leasers, including Jacinto Benavente himself, together with actor Ricardo Calvo, with the commitment of devoting room to the Spanish Classical Theatre.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1935, except for February and May 1931, the theater was occupied by the companies of Margarita Xirgu, and Enrique Borrás, through which the works of Federico Garcia Lorca and Rafael Alberti premiered under the direction of Cipriano Rivas Cherif. In October 1935, the concession granted to them passed over to Ricardo Calvo's and Enrique Borrás' for a period of one year, later revoked in March 1936. During the period of the Spanish Civil War, the concession of the theatre was in the hands of actor Manuel González, who staged \"El alcalde de Zalamea\" on 28 March 1939, the day the troops of Francisco Franco took Madrid.\n\nAfter the war, Teatro Español underwent a major change in its legal status. It reopened on 15 April 1939, coinciding with the death anniversary of Serafín Álvarez Quintero. The ownership of the facility remained in the hands of the City Council, although the management was assumed by the Government of Spain. Between the end of the war and the mid-1940s, the concession of the theatre was handed over to the companies of Ana Adamuz, Nini Montian-Guillermo Marin, Fernando Díaz de Mendoza y Guerrero-María Guerrero López. Under a ministerial order of March 1940, a national council of theatres was created with two sections: Teatro Nacional Español, staging classic authors, and Teatro María Guerrero. The season opened on November 13 of that year with \"La Celestina.\"\n\nThe organizational unit was in charge of the Ministry of Education of Spain and the National Ministry of Education until 1951, and the Ministry of Information and Tourism from then on. After ten consecutive years, the management of the theatre was in the hands of Cayetano Luca de Tena, until in 1954 the authorities handed over the administration to José Tamayo and his company \"Lope de Vega,\" in which actors Carlos Lemos, Núria Espert, Adolfo Marsillach and Berta Riaza performed. During the years of dictatorship, literary milestones such as \"Historia de una escalera\" and the introduction of contemporary foreign authors such as J.B. Priestley and Jean Anouilh premiered at Teatro Español. On 19 October 1975, the theater was damaged by another fire. Its reconstruction continued until 16 April 1980, when of the premiere of Calderon de la Barca's \"La dama de Alejandría.\" After a whole year of joint management between the Ministry of Culture and the City Council, headed by a board of directors, the theatre went back to the municipality of Madrid on 16 October 1981, with the auditorium now accommodating 763 spectators. In 2005, the old cafeteria was transformed into a small room for small events, and since 2007, the theatre's management personnel also organize events at \"Naves del Español\" theatre, located in the cultural room \"Matadero Madrid,\" with the design of the theater rooms provided by French scenographer Jean-Guy Lecat.\n\nSome of its directors included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43195853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43195853", "title": "Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt", "text": "Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt\n\nThe Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt (notated Dynasty XXVI, alternatively 26th Dynasty or Dynasty 26) was the last native dynasty to rule Egypt before the Persian conquest in 525 BC (although others followed). The dynasty's reign (664–525 BC) is also called the Saite Period after the city of Sais, where its pharaohs had their capital, and marks the beginning of the Late Period of ancient Egypt.\n\nThis dynasty traced its origins to the Twenty-fourth Dynasty. Psamtik I was probably a descendant of Bakenranef, and following the Neo-Assyrian Empire's invasions during the reigns of Taharqa and Tantamani, he was recognized as sole king over all of Egypt. While the Neo-Assyrian Empire was preoccupied with revolts and civil war over control of the throne, Psamtik threw off his ties to the Assyrians circa 655 BC, formed alliances with King Gyges of Lydia, and recruited mercenaries from Caria and ancient Greece to resist Assyrian attacks.\n\nWith the sack of Nineveh in 612 BC and the fall of the Assyrian Empire, both Psamtik and his successors attempted to reassert Egyptian power in the Near East, but were driven back by the Neo-Babylonian Empire under Nebuchadnezzar II. With the help of Greek mercenaries, Apries was able to hold back Babylonian attempts to conquer Egypt, only for the Persians to eventually do so. Their king, Cambyses II, captured and later executed Psamtik III.\n\nThe 26th Dynasty may be related to the 24th Dynasty. Manetho begins the dynasty with:\n\nWhen the Nubian King Shabaka defeated Bakenranef, son of Tefnakht, he likely installed a Nubian commander as governor at Sais. This may be the man named Ammeris. Stephinates may be a descendant of Bakenrenef. He is sometimes referred to as Tefnakht II in the literature. Nechepsos has been identified with a local king named Nekauba (678–672 BC). Manetho's Necho is King Necho I (672–664 BC); Manetho gives his reign as 8 years. Necho was killed during a conflict with the Nubian king Tantamani. Psamtik I fled to Nineveh – capital of the Neo-Assyrian Empire – and returned to Egypt when Ashurbanipal defeated Tantamani and drove him back south. Scholars now start the 26th Dynasty with the reign of Psamtik I.\n\nSextus Julius Africanus states in his often accurate version of Manetho's \"Epitome\" that the dynasty numbered 9 pharaohs, beginning with a \"Stephinates\" (Tefnakht II) and ending with Psamtik III. Africanus also notes that Psamtik I and Necho I ruled for 54 and 8 years respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "25494359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25494359", "title": "Vincent (opera)", "text": "Vincent (opera)\n\nVincent is an opera in three acts by Einojuhani Rautavaara first performed in 1990. The libretto is by the composer, and consists of scenes from the life of the artist Vincent van Gogh, told in retrospect.\n\n\"Vincent\", the composer’s fourth full-length opera, was first performed at the Helsinki Opera House on 17 May 1990. The idea of the piece emerged when Jorma Hynninen, showing a photo of himself to Rautavaara, asked the composer who he looked like. The answer was Van Gogh; Hynninen created the title role, and recorded it the same year.\nGerman performances took place in Kiel and Hagen in the following year.\nTold in flashback, the opera revolves around Vincent’s relationships with the prostitute Maria, his fellow painter Paul Gauguin and his brother Theo. The orchestral preludes are named after three of Van Gogh’s paintings. The score covers both serialism and tonal writing, with colourful orchestration. Rautavaara used some material from the opera in his 6th symphony Vincentiana.\n\nAfter an orchestral prelude \"(Starry Night)\", the first act opens in the mental hospital of Saint-Rémy, amidst the sounds of the other inmates, along with Doctor Rey, his secretary, the hospital priest and chief guard. Vincent hears voices and his mind is cast back to his childhood. When called to supper Vincent offers twelve other patients his flesh and blood, but they flee, terrified. Vincent recalls his art and his friendship with his brother Theo. Next Vincent has visions of a mining accident in the village of Borinage, followed by other incidents from his childhood, and then Maria Hoornik. After recalling a meeting where Vincent, as a lay preacher, gives a political and religious sermon, and its aftermath, he promises sun and light for those in darkness. The act closes with an extended duet for Theo and Gaby reflecting on spirit and inspiration.\n\nThe second act is prefaced by another orchestral section (\"Wheatfield with Crows\"), and the scene changes to an art exhibition where a professor, an artist, an aesthete and a critic discuss the works. After an argument between Paul and Maria, she tells Vincent to look in the mirror to see lies in his reflection. Vincent smashes the mirror; Maria goes, and the critics turn on Vincent. After they have gone, against Theo’s advice Paul incites Vincent to experience visions, but stops before these go too far. But the room changes into a bordello, with the women as the professionals of the house and the critics providing entertainment. When they all go upstairs, Vincent is prey to feelings of solitude. He paints a door on the wall, and through it, Gaby enters. They begin to dance and others return, and as the waltz becomes more ecstatic Vincent cuts off his ear, as an offering to the sun. The others reject him and a flock of blackbirds circles around him, blocking out the light.\n\nAct 3 (Epilogue) opens with an orchestral prelude (\"The Church at Auvers\"). Back in the hospital in Saint-Remy Vincent shows his latest painting to Doctor Rey, but the doctor declines, afraid of the ridicule the possession of such a piece would bring. The guard and secretary also refuse but the priest takes it, hoping to sell it to get money for good works. His last monologue moves from disillusion to love for the visions of life, and slowly other voices join in; he finishes praising the sun, summer and life.\n\nA Turkish language opera of 1956 by Nevit Kodallı, \"Van Gogh\"\n"}
{"id": "2666266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666266", "title": "What the Hack", "text": "What the Hack\n\nWhat The Hack was an outdoor hacker conference held in Liempde, Netherlands between the 28th and 31st of July, 2005. \n\nWhat the Hack was an event in a sequence that began with the Galactic Hacker Party in 1989, followed by Hacking at the End of the Universe in 1993, Hacking In Progress in 1997, Hackers At Large in 2001 and Hacking at Random in 2009. The most recent edition was Observe. Hack. Make. in 2013.\n\nOver 2000 hackers visited the event to participate in an exchange on several technical, social and philosophical matters of importance to the technically inclined community. \n\nVisitors from all over the world arrived at the Camp Ground including groups of such diversity as OpenBSD developers, the German Chaos Computer Club, members of the \"\" hackergroup, and numerous smaller groups and organisations in addition.\n\nWhile planning the event, there were several issues with the local government attempting to cancel the event because of \"the risk for public security\".\nSeveral smaller events were embedded in or inspired by this event like the Hacktrain, which was planned to travel there, as well as the local radio station, and the smaller Police village which featured specialists from their IT Department, as well as interested government parties. Peg DHCP () was used during the event to allocate IP addresses. The method had been first devised and used at Hacking In Progress.\n\nSome of the lectures and events this edition were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43953181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43953181", "title": "Wintergreen Summer Music Festival and Academy", "text": "Wintergreen Summer Music Festival and Academy\n\nThe Wintergreen Summer Music Festival and Academy (WSMF) is a four-week-long event held at Wintergreen Resort in Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains. The event has been held yearly since 1995. It is produced by its parent organization, Wintergreen Performing Arts, Inc. WSMF includes performances by the Wintergreen Festival Orchestra, which performs public concerts each Saturday and Sunday of the four weeks in the Dunnlop Pavilion (formerly the John D. Evans Center.)\n\nWSMF has been host to performers from around the world, including violinists Robert McDuffie and James Buswell, William Preucil, David Kim, and Roger Frisch; cellists Janos Starker, Julie Albers, and Zuill Bailey; pianist Norman Kreiger; conductors Peter Oundjian, Mei-Ann Chen, Carl St. Clair, Victor Yampolsky, Josep Caballé Domenech; soprano Arianna Zukerman; composers Daron Hagen, Eric Ewazen, Lawrence Dillon, Michael White, Ricardo Lorenz, and Ken Steen.\n\nWintergreen Summer Music Academy is a chamber music intensive program for advanced high school through doctoral students who play violin, viola, and cello. Under the auspices of the Festival, they present multiple weekly concerts. WSMA also produces the Lotte Lehmann Vocal Masterclasses, the Composition Academy, and the Quartet Fellowship Program.\n\nWSMF has been home to the American Sinfonietta (1997-1998), the Richmond Symphony (1999), and now imports orchestral musicians and university professors from around the country (2000–present). In recent years, the Festival has included guest performers of various styles including rock, jazz, pop and bluegrass in addition to masterclasses and educational seminars.\n\nArtistic Leadership: Dr. Erin Freeman, Artistic Director (2014–present) Dr. Larry Alan Smith, Artistic and Executive Director (2006-2014) David Wiley, Artistic Director (1999-2006) \n\n"}
{"id": "41903329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41903329", "title": "World Art Day", "text": "World Art Day\n\n\"World Art Day\" (Rittik Day) is an international celebration of the fine arts which was declared by the International Association of Art (IAA) in order to promote awareness of creative activity worldwide.\n\nA proposal was put forward at the 17th General Assembly of the International Association of Art in Guadalajara to declare April 15 as World Art Day, with the first celebration held in 2012. This proposal was sponsored by Bedri Baykam of Turkey and co-signed by Rosa Maria Burillo Velasco of Mexico, Anne Pourny of France, Liu Dawei of China, Christos Symeonides of Cyprus, Anders Liden of Sweden, Kan Irie of Japan, Pavel Kral of Slovakia, Dev Chooramun of Mauritius, and Hilde Rognskog of Norway. It was accepted unanimously by the General Assembly.\n\nThe date was decided in honor of the birthday of Leonardo da Vinci. Da Vinci was chosen as a symbol world peace, freedom of expression, tolerance, brotherhood and multiculturalism as well as art’s importance to other fields.\n\nThe first World Art Day on April 15, 2012 was supported by all IAA national committees and 150 artists, including those of France, Sweden, Slovakia, South Africa, Cyprus and Venezuela, but the intention of the event is universal. Events varied from special museum hours to conferences and more. For example Venezuela held outdoor art exhibitions with paintings, sculptures, prints, video and more, as well as a Florentine cooking demonstration in honor of Da Vinci.\n\nMore events were held in 2013 all over the world including the Mbombela municipal art museum in South Africa. However, there was controversy at celebrations in Sweden when the Swedish minister of Culture, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, cut into the genitals of a cake representing a black African woman. The performance art was meant to be a statement against genital mutilation but many found the depiction racist.\n\nWorld Art Day has also been supported online, especially by the Google Art Project.\n"}
{"id": "53959954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53959954", "title": "World Cleanup Day", "text": "World Cleanup Day\n\nWorld Cleanup Day (also known as WCD) is a global social action program aimed at combating the global solid waste problem, including the problem of marine debris. The first World Cleanup Day was September 15, 2018, beginning at 10 a.m., and spanning the world's time zones until concluding near the international date line in Hawaii.\n\nWorld Cleanup Day is held over the course of a 24-hour period, usually in mid-September. There are numerous organizations that facilitate and host World Cleanup Day events globally. Like Earth Day, World Cleanup Day is non-partisan, apolitical, and is not affiliated with any national or global political party or discrete ideology. \n\nGlobal cleanup efforts have existed in many forms throughout human history, especially after widespread catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, and powerful tsunamis. \n\nIn modern history, these efforts are typically undertaken by the affected communities, with support from various international organizations and NGOs, such as Red Cross, Oxfam, and other relief organizations but typically in post-conflict zones. They have included efforts to remove land mines, beach cleanup, and other municipal and non-governmental actions.\n\nWorld Cleanup Day is a decentralized network, made of different grassroots efforts. One of the largest organizers of global cleanup efforts is Let's Do It! World. Founded in Estonia, the organization successfully mobilized more than 50,000 volunteers for a single-day, country-wide cleanup effort that resulted in the elimination of 10,000 tons of illegal waste. The Estonian action, called Let's Do It 2008 emerged as a global model, spreading globally thereafter. Today, the movement has grown into a network of 150 countries. All together, more than 14.5 million participants have been engaged in the movement's activities.\n\nParticipants in World Cleanup Days are typically volunteers, with coordination from non-governmental organizations who assist in awareness-raising, logistics, and fundraising.\n\n\n\n"}
