{"id": "39287269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39287269", "title": "35 Bar &amp; Grille LLC v. City of San Antonio", "text": "35 Bar &amp; Grille LLC v. City of San Antonio\n\n35 Bar and Grille LLC, et al. v. The City of San Antonio was a court case in U.S. District court. The case addressed a city ordinance about the amount of bodily coverage needed by semi-nude dancers in San Antonio, Texas. The case reached notoriety in international press when the press discovered that Chief U.S. District Judge Fred Biery's April 29, 2013 order denying a motion for a preliminary injunction was full of puns and double entendres about stripping and sexuality. During its press coverage, the case was also known by the humorous title applied to the judge's opinion of the case, The Itsy Bitsy Teeny Weeny Bikini Top v The (More) Itsy Bitsy Teeny Weeny Pastie (a reference to the song \"Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie Yellow Polka Dot Bikini\").\n\nIn 2012, the city of San Antonio amended its city ordinances dealing with \"sexually oriented businesses\", or SOBs. Among other changes, the amendment redefined \"nudity\" to include \"a state of dress that fails to completely and opaquely cover...the entire female breast\". Whereas female dancers had previously been able to avoid being classified as \"nude\" by wearing pasties over their nipples, the new law required that they wear at minimum a bra or bikini top. Any business not meeting that requirement had to seek a permit as a SOB. The law also augmented fines associated with failure to comply with these regulations.\n\nThe amendments were proposed to address concerns from parents about the proximity of semi-nude dance clubs to schools. Police Chief Bill McManus applauded the amendment because it simplified enforcement by eliminating legal \"grey areas\"; he also noted connections between the presence of such establishments and area crime rates. However, strip clubs objected on the grounds that no consultation or public hearings had taken place prior to the amendments being passed. Richard Deegear, a lawyer representing several establishments, noted that \"This entire process has been a disappointment because there hasn't been any process to speak of\" and stated that he intended to bring the matter to court. Previous attempts by the city in 2005 to regulate these business had also been challenged in court.\n\nA case challenging the amendments was filed against the city on 11 January 2013 in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. The plaintiffs in the case were: 35 Bar and Grille, LLC; C. B. Restaurants, Inc.; E & I Enterprises, Inc.; Endless Music, LLC; FLWW, Inc.; Hacienda Club, LLC; KHG of San Antonio; Michael D's Restaurant San Antonio, Inc.; RCI Entertainment (San Antonio), Inc.; Sacolo, LTD.; Spiros Partnership, Ltd.; Tripolis Enterprises, Inc.; and the Players Club, LLC. The case was assigned to Chief U.S. District Judge Fred Biery in February 2013. Biery had previously presided over a 2003 case involving nude dancing.\n\nPlaintiffs argued that the amendments violated their first amendment right to free speech. They also complained that forcing their dancers to be more covered would reduce the profit margin of their companies. They sought an injunction against enforcement of the ordinance.\n\nIn early February, Biery issued an order that the city not enforce the ordinance until the request for injunction was considered at a hearing.\n\nOn 29 April 2013, Judge Biery issued a decision denying the request for an injunction. He found that the plaintiffs had not met the burden of proof to justify an injunction. His decision included a loose paraphrase of the Bible and other works of literature (for example \"Hamlet\" and \"To Kill a Mockingbird\") and a photograph of \"Miss Wiggles\", a 1960s-era clothed exotic dancer, in addition to the usual case references. The decision concluded \"Should the parties choose to string this case out to trial on the merits, the Court encourages reasonable discovery intercourse as they navigate the peaks and valleys of litigation, perhaps to reach a happy ending\".\n\nWhen discussing the importance of the argument, despite its playfulness, the press described the opinion as highlighting important problems in American society. In particular, Biery's opinion also highlighted the problems inherent with the assumptions from lawmakers about stemming crime related to Sexually Oriented Businesses writing:\n\nIn the press following the ruling, many newspapers commented on the humor and amount of careful use of suggestive language within the opinion. \"The Telegraph\" called the case \"world's cheekiest written ruling\". Similarly the Huffington Post business section called the case \"one of the funniest, most eloquent court documents we've ever seen.\"\n\nThe lawyer representing the strip clubs expressed a similar opinion to the press when talking about the ruling telling local press \"one of the most entertaining things I've ever seen\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57888393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57888393", "title": "Attorney General of Brunei", "text": "Attorney General of Brunei\n\nThe Attorney General's Office of Brunei was established by the Constitution in 1959. Prior to the proclamation, the Attorney General of Sarawak had served as the legal adviser to Brunei's federal government. The Attorney General is assisted by the Solicitor General and Counsels in advising representing the federal government in civil and criminal matters. In addition, the Attorney General drafts legislation and works closely with any pertinent government ministries and departments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15996029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15996029", "title": "Barristers' clerk", "text": "Barristers' clerk\n\nA barristers' clerk is a manager and administrator in a set of barristers' chambers. The term originates in England, and is also used in some other common law jurisdictions, such as Australia. In Scotland, the equivalent role is advocate's clerk.\n\nThere are about 1,200 barristers' clerks in England and Wales. Around 350 are senior clerks. A group of 20 barristers normally employs one senior clerk and one or two junior clerks. More than half the clerks work in London, mainly in and around the four Inns of Court, with the remainder being in other large towns and cities. In the UK, the profession is regulated by the Institute of Barristers' Clerks.\n\nBarristers employ clerks to organise their bookings and provide messaging, telephone and accounting services.\n\nClerks have detailed knowledge about the barristers on their list. They provide solicitors and others with information about the availability of barristers and advise on the choice of barrister.\n\nIn recent years and in line with modernisation of the barristers' profession, an increasing number of barristers no longer employ clerks but manage their fees and time themselves or use modern management structures.\n\nClerks manage their barristers' time through diary management (e.g. when they have to be in court); clerks negotiate their fees; and clerks advise them on how their careers should be structured (e.g. what kind of law to specialise in, or when to become a Queen's Counsel). They may receive a percentage of the barristers' fees for this work.\n\nA barristers' clerk is responsible for running the business activities and administration of a barristers' chambers. The role is integral to the success of a set of chambers as a business and as a practice. Barristers' clerks must be familiar with court procedures and etiquette. They will also develop an expertise in the branch of law undertaken by their chambers.\n\nA barristers' clerk requires a combination of commercial acumen, legal knowledge and strong interpersonal skills. The term \"clerk\" is historical and does not accurately reflect the co-ordination of workload, marketing and financial management undertaken.\n\nBarrister's clerks are also responsible for client management, including attending client meetings to set up and forge relationships with individual solicitors and solicitors firms that deal with the work their barristers and chambers specialise in, sometimes this can mean travelling around the country (and in some cases abroad) to see clients.\n\nGenerally a junior barristers' clerk acts as an assistant to other senior and more experienced staff, increasingly assuming more responsibility over a period of time, including the allocation of briefs and negotiation of fees. One of the most significant duties that a junior barristers' clerk will undertake is to arrange the diary and general work programme of the barristers.\n\nThe junior barristers' clerk is usually the first point of contact between a solicitor seeking the services of a barrister, and the barrister. Junior barristers' clerks need to be consistently professional in their approach and show positive attitudes and behaviours. The barristers' clerk needs to ensure that whichever barrister they put forward has the ability, competence and time to perform the assignment; so the barristers' clerk needs to be up to date with the barrister's diary and commitments.\n\nFor a newly appointed barristers’ clerk, relationships with barristers in chambers, instructing solicitors, the court service and many other outside agencies is paramount. Depending on the size of chambers and the available staff resources, the typical responsibilities of a junior barristers' clerk will include some or all of the following:\n\nhttp://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/life_and_style/career_and_jobs/secretarial/article508890.ece\n"}
{"id": "36440390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36440390", "title": "Bei Bei Shuai", "text": "Bei Bei Shuai\n\nBei Bei Shuai () is a Chinese immigrant to the United States who became the subject of international public attention from 2011 to 2013 when the authorities of the state of Indiana charged her with murder and attempted feticide after her suicide attempt allegedly resulted in the death of the child she was pregnant with. The British newspaper \"The Guardian\" described Shuai's case as well as those of other women who lose their unborn babies in cases of maternal drug addiction or a suicide attempt, as part of a \"creeping criminalisation of pregnancy across America\".\n\nShuai, a Shanghai native, immigrated to the U.S. in the early 2000s with her then-husband. In late 2010, after her marriage fell apart, she became pregnant with the child of another man. When he abandoned her, Shuai attempted to kill herself by taking rat poison. She survived, but the fetus died on 3 January 2011 – 33 weeks after her conception, ten days after the poisoning and two days after her birth in an emergency caesarian section.\n\nOn 14 March 2011, Shuai was charged with the murder and attempted feticide of her child, and was jailed for 435 days. In May 2012, the Supreme Court of Indiana declined to dismiss the charges against her, but allowed her release on bail.\n\nShuai declined a plea deal that would have her plead guilty to the feticide charge (with a sentence of up to 20 years imprisonment) in return for the withdrawal of the murder charge. She faced a trial for murder with a possible sentence of 45 years to life imprisonment. In June, the prosecution filed a motion to admonish her lawyer, Linda Pence, for prejudicing the potential jury pool by conducting a public campaign for the support of her client. This caused alarm among defense lawyers nationwide, one of whom criticized the motion as a possible attempt at intimidation or to prevent Pence from raising money for her client; chief prosecutor Terry Curry denied this.\n\nIn 2013 Shuai pled guilty to a misdemeanor charge of criminal recklessness and was released, having been sentenced to time served. Prosecutor Terry Curry said of the law under which she was initially charged for murder: \"There was never any intention to monitor pregnancies.\" \n\nShuai's case was the first in the history of Indiana in which a woman was prosecuted for murder for a suicide attempt while pregnant. The feticide statute under which she was also prosecuted was intended, when enacted in 1979, to cover acts by violent third parties such as abusive boyfriends. Women's groups in the U.S. warned that Shuai's prosecution could set a precedent for criminalizing a pregnant woman's actions, such as smoking or drinking, or having a miscarriage.\n\nAt least 38 U.S. states have similar \"fetal homicide\" laws, which are increasingly used to prosecute the pregnant women themselves. Recent similar cases in other states include that of Rennie Gibbs (charged with murder in Mississippi for having a stillborn daughter while addicted to cocaine) and at least 40 cases of pregnant women charged in Alabama under a \"chemical endangerment\" statute originally intended to protect children from the fumes of illicit meth labs run by their parents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6752", "title": "Cheka", "text": "Cheka\n\nThe All-Russian Extraordinary Commission (), abbreviated as VChK (, \"Ve-Che-Ka\") and commonly known as Cheka (from the initialism ChK), was the first of a succession of Soviet secret police organizations. Established on December 5 (Old Style) 1917 by the Sovnarkom, it came under the leadership of Felix Dzerzhinsky, a Polish aristocrat-turned-communist. By late 1918, hundreds of Cheka committees had sprung up in various cities at the oblast, guberniya, raion, uyezd, and volost levels.\n\nThe official designation was All-Russian Extraordinary (or Emergency) Commission for Combating Counter-Revolution and Sabotage under the Council of People's Commissars of the RSFSR (, \"Vserossiyskaya chrezvychaynaya komissiya po borbe s kontrrevolyutsiyey i sabotazhem pri Sovete narodnykh komisarov RSFSR\").\n\nIn 1918 its name was changed, becoming All-Russian Extraordinary Commission for Combating Counter-Revolution, Profiteering and Corruption.\n\nA member of Cheka was called a \"chekist\". Also, the term \"chekist\" often referred to Soviet secret police throughout the Soviet period, despite official name changes over time. In \"The Gulag Archipelago\", Alexander Solzhenitsyn recalls that \"zeks\" in the labor camps used \"old chekist\" as a mark of special esteem for particularly experienced camp administrators. The term is still found in use in Russia today (for example, President Vladimir Putin has been referred to in the Russian media as a \"chekist\" due to his career in the KGB and as head of the KGB's successor, FSB).\n\nThe chekists commonly dressed in black leather, including long flowing coats, reportedly after being issued such distinctive coats early in their existence. Western communists adopted this clothing fashion. The Chekists also often carried with them Greek-style worry beads made of amber, which had become \"fashionable among high officials during the time of the 'cleansing'\".\nIn 1921, the \"Troops for the Internal Defense of the Republic\" (a branch of the Cheka) numbered at least 200,000. These troops policed labor camps, ran the Gulag system, conducted requisitions of food, and subjected political opponents to secret arrest, detention, torture and summary execution. They also put down rebellions and riots by workers or peasants, and mutinies in the desertion-plagued Red Army.\n\nAfter 1922 Cheka groups underwent the first of a series of reorganizations; however the theme of a government dominated by \"the organs\" persisted indefinitely afterward, and Soviet citizens continued to refer to members of the various organs as Chekists.\n\nIn the first month and half after the October Revolution (1917), the duty of \"extinguishing the resistance of exploiters\" was assigned to the Petrograd Military Revolutionary Committee (or PVRK). It represented a temporary body working under directives of the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom) and Central Committee of RDSRP(b). The VRK created new bodies of government, organized food delivery to cities and the Army, requisitioned products from \"bourgeoisie\", and sent its emissaries and agitators into provinces. One of its most important functions was the security of \"revolutionary order\", and the fight against \"counterrevolutionary\" activity (see: Anti-Soviet agitation).\n\nOn December 1, 1917, the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (VTsIK or TsIK) reviewed a proposed reorganization of the VRK, and possible replacement of it. On December 5, the Petrograd VRK published an announcement of dissolution and transferred its functions to the department of TsIK for the fight against \"counterrevolutionaries\". On December 6, the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom) strategized how to persuade government workers to strike across Russia. They decided that a special commission was needed to implement the \"most energetically revolutionary\" measures. Felix Dzerzhinsky (the Iron Felix) was appointed as Director and invited the participation of the following individuals: V. K. Averin, V. N. Vasilevsky, D. G. Yevseyev, N. A. Zhydelev, I. K. Ksenofontov, G. K. Ordjonikidze, Ya. Kh. Peters, K. A. Peterson, V. A. Trifonov.\n\nOn December 7, 1917, all invited except Zhydelev and Vasilevsky gathered in the Smolny Institute to discuss the competence and structure of the commission to combat counterrevolution and sabotage. The obligations of the commission were: \"to liquidate to the root all of the counterrevolutionary and sabotage activities and all attempts to them in all of Russia, to hand over counter-revolutionaries and saboteurs to the revolutionary tribunals, develop measures to combat them and relentlessly apply them in real world applications. The commission should only conduct a preliminary investigation\". The commission should also observe the press and counterrevolutionary parties, sabotaging officials and other criminals. \n\nThree sections were created: informational, organizational, and a unit to combat counter-revolution and sabotage. Upon the end of the meeting, Dzerzhinsky reported to the Sovnarkom with the requested information. The commission was allowed to apply such measures of repression as 'confiscation, deprivation of ration cards, publication of lists of enemies of the people etc.'\". That day, Sovnarkom officially confirmed the creation of VCheKa. The commission was created not under the VTsIK as was previously anticipated, but rather under the Council of the People's Commissars.\n\nOn December 8, 1917, some of the original members of the VCheka were replaced. Averin, Ordzhonikidze, and Trifonov were replaced by V. V. Fomin, S. E. Shchukin, Ilyin, and Chernov. On the meeting of December 8, the presidium of VChK was elected of five members, and chaired by Dzerzhinsky. The issue of \"speculation\" was raised at the same meeting, which was assigned to Peters to address and report with results to one of the next meetings of the commission. A circular, published on , gave the address of VCheka's first headquarters as \"Petrograd, Gorokhovaya 2, 4th floor\". On December 11, Fomin was ordered to organize a section to suppress \"speculation.\" And in the same day, VCheKa offered Shchukin to conduct arrests of counterfeiters.\n\nIn January 1918, a subsection of the anti-counterrevolutionary effort was created to police bank officials. The structure of VCheKa was changing repeatedly. By March 1918, when the organization came to Moscow, it contained the following sections: against counterrevolution, speculation, non-residents, and information gathering. By the end of 1918–1919, some new units were created: secretly operative, investigatory, of transportation, military (special), operative, and instructional. By 1921, it changed once again, forming the following sections: directory of affairs, administrative-organizational, secretly operative, economical, and foreign affairs.\n\nIn the first months of its existence, VCheKa consisted of only 40 officials. It commanded a team of soldiers, the Sveaborgesky regiment, as well as a group of Red Guardsmen. On January 14, 1918, Sovnarkom ordered Dzerzhinsky to organize teams of \"energetic and ideological\" sailors to combat speculation. By the spring of 1918, the commission had several teams: in addition to the Sveaborge team, it had an intelligence team, a team of sailors, and a strike team. Through the winter of 1917–1918, all activities of VCheKa were centralized mainly in the city of Petrograd. It was one of several other commissions in the country which fought against counterrevolution, speculation, banditry, and other activities perceived as crimes. Other organizations included: the Bureau of Military Commissars, and an Army-Navy investigatory commission to attack the counterrevolutionary element in the Red Army, plus the Central Requisite and Unloading Commission to fight speculation. The investigation of counterrevolutionary or major criminal offenses was conducted by the Investigatory Commission of Revtribunal. The functions of VCheKa were closely intertwined with the Commission of V. D. Bonch-Bruyevich, which beside the fight against wine pogroms was engaged in the investigation of most major political offenses (see: Bonch-Bruyevich Commission).\n\nAll results of its activities, VCheKa had either to transfer to the Investigatory Commission of Revtribunal, or to dismiss. The control of the commission's activity was provided by the People's Commissariat for Justice (Narkomjust, at that time headed by Isidor Steinberg) and Internal Affairs (NKVD, at that time headed by Hryhoriy Petrovsky). Although the VCheKa was officially an independent organization from the NKVD, its chief members such as Dzerzhinsky, Latsis, Unszlicht, and Uritsky (all main chekists), since November 1917 composed the collegiate of NKVD headed by Petrovsky. In November 1918, Petrovsky was appointed as head of the All-Ukrainian Central Military Revolutionary Committee during VCheKa's expansion to provinces and front-lines. At the time of political competition between Bolsheviks and SRs (January 1918), Left SRs attempted to curb the rights of VCheKa and establish through the Narkomiust their control over its work. Having failed in attempts to subordinate the VCheKa to Narkomiust, the Left SRs tried to gain control of the Extraordinary Commission in a different way: they requested that the Central Committee of the party was granted the right to directly enter their representatives into the VCheKa. Sovnarkom recognized the desirability of including five representatives of the Left Socialist-Revolutionary faction of VTsIK. Left SRs were granted the post of a companion (deputy) chairman of VCheKa. However, Sovnarkom, in which the majority belonged to the representatives of RSDLP(b) retained the right to approve members of the collegium of the VCheKa.\n\nOriginally, members of the Cheka were exclusively Bolshevik; however, in January 1918, Left SRs also joined the organization The Left SRs were expelled or arrested later in 1918, following the attempted assassination of Lenin by an SR, Fanni Kaplan.\n\nBy the end of January 1918, the Investigatory Commission of Petrograd Soviet (probably same as of Revtribunal) petitioned Sovnarkom to delineate the role of detection and judicial-investigatory organs. It offered to leave, for the VCheKa and the Commission of Bonch-Bruyevich, only the functions of detection and suppression, while investigative functions entirely transferred to it. The Investigatory Commission prevailed. On January 31, 1918, Sovnarkom ordered to relieve VCheKa of the investigative functions, leaving for the commission only the functions of detection, suppression, and prevention of anti revolutionary crimes. At the meeting of the Council of People's Commissars on January 31, 1918, a merger of VCheKa and the Commission of Bonch-Bruyevich was proposed. The existence of both commissions, VCheKa of Sovnarkom and the Commission of Bonch-Bruyevich of VTsIK, with almost the same functions and equal rights, became impractical. A decision followed two weeks later.\n\nOn February 23, 1918, VCheKa sent a radio telegram to all Soviets with a petition to immediately organize emergency commissions to combat counter-revolution, sabotage and speculation, if such commissions had not been yet organized. February 1918 saw the creation of local Extraordinary Commissions. One of the first founded was the Moscow Cheka. Sections and commissariats to combat counterrevolution were established in other cities. The Extraordinary Commissions arose, usually in the areas during the moments of the greatest aggravation of political situation. On February 25, 1918, as the counterrevolutionary organization \"Union of Front-liners\" was making advances, the executive committee of the Saratov Soviet formed a counter-revolutionary section. On March 7, 1918, because of the move from Petrograd to Moscow, the Petrograd Cheka was created. On March 9, a section for combating counterrevolution was created under the Omsk Soviet. Extraordinary commissions were also created in Penza, Perm, Novgorod, Cherepovets, Rostov, Taganrog. On March 18, VCheKa adopted a resolution, \"The Work of VCheKa on the All-Russian Scale\", foreseeing the formation everywhere of Extraordinary Commissions after the same model, and sent a letter that called for the widespread establishment of the Cheka in combating counterrevolution, speculation, and sabotage. Establishment of provincial Extraordinary Commissions was largely completed by August 1918. In the Soviet Republic, there were 38 gubernatorial Chekas (Gubcheks) by this time.\n\nOn June 12, 1918, the All-Russian Conference of Cheka adopted the \"Basic Provisions on the Organization of Extraordinary Commissions\". They set out to form Extraordinary Commissions not only at Oblast and Guberniya levels, but also at the large Uyezd Soviets. In August 1918, in the Soviet Republic had accounted for some 75 Uyezd-level Extraordinary Commissions. By the end of the year, 365 Uyezd-level Chekas were established. In 1918, the All-Russia Extraordinary Commission and the Soviets managed to establish a local Cheka apparatus. It included Oblast, Guberniya, Raion, Uyezd, and Volost Chekas, with Raion and Volost Extraordinary Commissioners. In addition, border security Chekas were included in the system of local Cheka bodies.\n\nIn the autumn of 1918, as consolidation of the political situation of the republic continued, a move toward elimination of Uyezd-, Raion-, and Volost-level Chekas, as well as the institution of Extraordinary Commissions was considered. On January 20, 1919, VTsIK adopted a resolution prepared by VCheKa, \"On the abolition of Uyezd Extraordinary Commissions\". On January 16 the presidium of VCheKa approved the draft on the establishment of the Politburo at Uyezd militsiya. This decision was approved by the Conference of the Extraordinary Commission IV, held in early February 1920.\n\nOn August 3, a VCheKa section for combating counterrevolution, speculation and sabotage on railways was created. On August 7, 1918, Sovnarkom adopted a decree on the organization of the railway section at VCheKa. Combating counterrevolution, speculation, and malfeasance on railroads was passed under the jurisdiction of the railway section of VCheKa and local Cheka. In August 1918, railway sections were formed under the Gubcheks. Formally, they were part of the non-resident sections, but in fact constituted a separate division, largely autonomous in their activities. The gubernatorial and oblast-type Chekas retained in relationship to the transportation sections only control and investigative functions.\n\nThe beginning of a systematic work of organs of VCheKa in RKKA refers to July 1918, the period of extreme tension of the civil war and class struggle in the country. On July 16, 1918, the Council of People's Commissars formed the Extraordinary Commission for combating counterrevolution at the Czechoslovak (Eastern) Front, led by M. I. Latsis. In the fall of 1918, Extraordinary Commissions to combat counterrevolution on the Southern (Ukraine) Front were formed. In late November, the Second All-Russian Conference of the Extraordinary Commissions accepted a decision after a report from I. N. Polukarov to establish at all frontlines, and army sections of the Cheka and granted them the right to appoint their commissioners in military units. On December 9, 1918, the collegiate (or presidium) of VCheKa had decided to form a military section, headed by M. S. Kedrov, to combat counterrevolution in the Army. In early 1919, the military control and the military section of VCheKa were merged into one body, the Special Section of the Republic. Kedrov was appointed as head. On January 1, he issued an order to establish the Special Section. The order instructed agencies everywhere to unite the Military control and the military sections of Chekas and to form special sections of frontlines, armies, military districts, and guberniyas.\n\nIn November 1920 the Soviet of Labor and Defense created a Special Section of VCheKa for the security of the state border. On February 6, 1922, after the Ninth All-Russian Soviet Congress, the Cheka was dissolved by VTsIK, \"with expressions of gratitude for heroic work.\" It was replaced by the State Political Administration or OGPU, a section of the NKVD of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). Dzerzhinsky remained as chief of the new organization.\nInitially formed to fight against counter-revolutionaries and saboteurs, as well as financial speculators, the Cheka had its own classifications. Those counter-revolutionaries fell under these categories:\n\n\nAs its name implied, the Extraordinary Commission had virtually unlimited powers and could interpret them in any way it wished. No standard procedures were ever set up, except that the Commission was supposed to send the arrested to the Military-Revolutionary tribunals if outside of a war zone. This left an opportunity for a wide range of interpretations, as the whole country was in total chaos. At the direction of Lenin, the Cheka performed mass arrests, imprisonments, and executions of \"enemies of the people\". In this, the Cheka said that they targeted \"class enemies\" such as the bourgeoisie, and members of the clergy; the first organized mass repression began against the libertarians and socialists of Petrograd in April 1918. Over the next few months, 800 were arrested and shot without trial.\n\nWithin a month, the Cheka had extended its repression to all political opponents of the communist government, including anarchists and others on the left. On April 11/12, 1918, some 26 anarchist political centres in Moscow were attacked. Forty anarchists were killed by Cheka forces, and about 500 were arrested and jailed after a pitched battle took place between the two groups. In response to the anarchists' resistance, the Cheka orchestrated a massive retaliatory campaign of repression, executions, and arrests against all opponents of the Bolshevik government, in what came to be known as \"Red Terror\". The \"Red Terror\", implemented by Dzerzhinsky on September 5, 1918, was vividly described by the Red Army journal \"Krasnaya Gazeta\":\n\nWithout mercy, without sparing, we will kill our enemies in scores of hundreds. Let them be thousands, let them drown themselves in their own blood. For the blood of Lenin and Uritsky … let there be floods of blood of the bourgeoisie – more blood, as much as possible...\"\n\nAn early Bolshevik, Victor Serge described in his book \"Memoirs of a Revolutionary\":\n\nThe Cheka was also used against the armed anarchist Black Army of Nestor Makhno in the Ukraine. After the Black Army had served its purpose in aiding the Red Army to stop the Whites under Denikin, the Soviet communist government decided to eliminate the anarchist forces. In May 1919, two Cheka agents sent to assassinate Makhno were caught and executed.\n\nMany victims of Cheka repression were \"bourgeois hostages\" rounded up and held in readiness for summary execution in reprisal for any alleged counter-revolutionary act. Wholesale, indiscriminate arrests became an integral part of the system. The Cheka used trucks disguised as delivery trucks, called \"Black Marias\", for the secret arrest and transport of prisoners.\n\nIt was during the Red Terror that the Cheka, hoping to avoid the bloody aftermath of having half-dead victims writhing on the floor, developed a technique for execution known later by the German words \"\"Nackenschuss\" or \"\"Genickschuss\", a shot to the nape of the neck, which caused minimal blood loss and instant death. The victim's head was bent forward, and the executioner fired slightly downward at point blank range. This had become the standard method used later by the NKVD to liquidate Joseph Stalin's purge victims and others.\n\nIt is believed that there were more than three million deserters from the Red Army in 1919 and 1920. Approximately 500,000 deserters were arrested in 1919 and close to 800,000 in 1920, by troops of the 'Special Punitive Department' of the Cheka, created to punish desertions. These troops were used to forcibly repatriate deserters, taking and shooting hostages to force compliance or to set an example. Throughout the course of the civil war, several thousand deserters were shot – a number comparable to that of belligerents during World War I.\n\nIn September 1918, according to \"The Black Book of Communism\", in only twelve provinces of Russia, 48,735 deserters and 7,325 \"bandits\" were arrested, 1,826 were killed and 2,230 were executed. The exact identity of these individuals is confused by the fact that the Soviet Bolshevik government used the term 'bandit' to cover ordinary criminals as well as armed and unarmed political opponents, such as the anarchists.\n\nEstimates on Cheka executions vary widely. The lowest figures (\"disputed below\") are provided by Dzerzhinsky's lieutenant Martyn Latsis, limited to RSFSR over the period 1918–1920:\n\n\n\n\nExperts generally agree these semi-official figures are vastly understated. Pioneering historian of the Red Terror Sergei Melgunov claims that this was done deliberately in an attempt to demonstrate the government's humanity. For example, he refutes the claim made by Latsis that only 22 executions were carried out in the first six months of the Cheka's existence by providing evidence that the true number was 884 executions. W. H. Chamberlin claims, \"It is simply impossible to believe that the Cheka only put to death 12,733 people in all of Russia up to the end of the civil war.\" Donald Rayfield concurs, noting that, \"Plausible evidence reveals that the actual numbers . . . vastly exceeded the official figures.\" Chamberlin provides the \"reasonable and probably moderate\" estimate of 50,000, while others provide estimates ranging up to 500,000. Several scholars put the number of executions at about 250,000. Some believe it is possible more people were murdered by the Cheka than died in battle. Historian James Ryan gives a modest estimate of 28,000 executions per year from December 1917 to February 1922.\n\nLenin himself seemed unfazed by the killings. On 12 January 1920, while addressing trade union leaders, he said: \"We did not hesitate to shoot thousands of people, and we shall not hesitate, and we shall save the . On 14 May 1921, the Politburo, chaired by Lenin, passed a motion \"broadening the rights of the [Cheka] in relation to the use of the [death penalty].\"\n\nThe Cheka is reported to have practiced torture. Depending on Cheka committees in various cities, the methods included: being skinned alive, scalped, \"crowned\" with barbed wire, impaled, crucified, hanged, stoned to death, tied to planks and pushed slowly into furnaces or tanks of boiling water, or rolled around naked in internally nail-studded barrels. Chekists reportedly poured water on naked prisoners in the winter-bound streets until they became living ice statues. Others reportedly beheaded their victims by twisting their necks until their heads could be torn off. The Cheka detachments stationed in Kiev reportedly would attach an iron tube to the torso of a bound victim and insert a rat in the tube closed off with wire netting, while the tube was held over a flame until the rat began gnawing through the victim's guts in an effort to escape. Anton Denikin's investigation discovered corpses whose lungs, throats, and mouths had been packed with earth.\n\nWomen and children were also victims of Cheka terror. Women would sometimes be tortured and raped before being shot. Children between the ages of 8 and 13 were imprisoned and occasionally executed.\n\nAll of these atrocities were published on numerous occasions in \"Pravda\" and \"Izvestiya\": January 26, 1919 \"Izvestiya\" #18 article \"Is it really a medieval imprisonment?\" («Неужели средневековый застенок?»); February 22, 1919 \"Pravda\" #12 publishes details of the Vladimir Cheka's tortures, September 21, 1922 \"Socialist Herald\" publishes details of series of tortures conducted by the Stavropol Cheka (hot basement, cold basement, skull measuring etc.).\n\nThe Chekists were also supplemented by the militarized Units of Special Purpose (the Party's Spetsnaz or ).\n\nCheka was actively and openly utilizing kidnapping methods. With kidnapping methods Cheka was able to extinguish numerous cases of discontent especially among the rural population. Among the notorious ones was the Tambov rebellion.\n\nVillages were bombarded to complete annihilation like in the case of Tretyaki, Novokhopersk uyezd, Voronezh Governorate. \n\nAs a result of this relentless violence more than a few Chekists ended up with psychopathic disorders, which Nikolai Bukharin said were \"an occupational hazard of the Chekist profession.\" Many hardened themselves to the executions by heavy drinking and drug use. Some developed a gangster-like slang for the verb to kill in an attempt to distance themselves from the killings, such as 'shooting partridges', of 'sealing' a victim, or giving him a \"natsokal\" (onomatopoeia of the trigger action).\n\nOn November 30, 1992, by the initiative of the President of the Russian Federation the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation recognized the Red Terror as unlawful, which in turn led to suspension of the Communist Party of the RSFSR.\n\nCheka departments were organized not only in big cities and guberniya seats, but also in each uyezd, at any front-lines and military formations. Nothing is known on what resources they were created. Many who were hired to head those departments were so-called \"nestlings of Alexander Keren\".\n\n\nKonstantin Preobrazhenskiy criticised the continuing celebration of the professional holiday of the old and the modern Russian security services on the anniversary of the creation of the Cheka, with the assent of the Presidents of Russia. (Vladimir Putin, former KGB officer, chose not to change the date to another): \"The successors of the KGB still haven't renounced anything; they even celebrate their professional holiday the same day, as during repression, on the 20th of December. It is as if the present intelligence and counterespionage services of Germany celebrated Gestapo Day. I can imagine how indignant our press would be!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4664974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4664974", "title": "Clerk of the Peace", "text": "Clerk of the Peace\n\nA clerk of the peace held an office in England and Wales whose responsibility was the records of the quarter sessions and the framing of presentments and indictments. They had legal training, so that they could advise justices of the peace. \n\nThe office of the clerk of the peace originated in England and is lost in antiquity. It is referred to in Statute 24 C.1 of Edward III (1361) as an office occupied by a person who draws indictments, arraigns prisoners, joins issue for the Crown, enters judgments, awards their process and makes up and keeps records in respect of proceedings before justices assembled in quarter sessions to hear and determine felonies and trespasses. \n\nClerks of the peace were appointed for counties, ridings, divisions and other places decided by the custos rotolorum, i.e., the principal justice of the peace for the various divisions etc. They were required to be in constant attendance on the courts of quarter sessions and were accountable in the King's Bench for their indictments. They were specifically responsible to the court for the performance of their duties. This position at common law was later set down in Statute 37 C.1 of Henry VIII. The clerk of the peace is styled in the Year Books as \"Attornatus Domini Regis\". This title, which designated him as the king's attorney for the area of his appointment, is interesting, since it predates that of a single attorney-general for the realm; that title first appearing in 1461. \n\nFrom early times however, it seems that clerks of the peace had administrative functions apart from their legal and quasi-legal duties, especially in towns and cities. Hearth tax returns were lodged with the clerk of the peace between 1662 and 1688. The role was established by 1380 and may have existed before that. Other duties included ordering the repair of bridges, levying county rates, provision of goals, and the putting down of diseased animals. When the Local Government Act 1888 created county councils, clerks of the peace became their chief executive officers. Many more additional duties had been cast upon them, e.g., main roads. In 1894 they acquired the administration of the Motor Car Act, Small Holdings Act 1892, Old Age Pensions Act and the Finance Act. In 1902 they acquired the administration of the Education Act, in 1904 the Licensing Act and in 1908 control of the procedure required by the Criminal Appeal Act. The clerk of the peace was truly the \"factorum generale\". \n\nAfter existing for more than 600 years, the office was abolished in England by section 44(1) of the Courts Act 1971 which came into effect on 1 January 1972. Meanwhile, justices of the peace were being advised in their petty sessions work by the justices' clerk (or clerk to the justices), an office which still exists in England and Wales today as the principal legal adviser in magistrates' courts.\n\nWilliam Dickinson and Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd in their book, \"Dickinson's Guide to the Quarter Sessions and Other Sessions of the Peace\" provide a snapshot of the clerk's role in 1841. They described the clerk of the peace as an officer, by whatever name called, whether clerk and attorney for the Crown, clerk of the justices, or clerk of the peace, appointed to assist the justices assembled in quarter sessions, to hear and determine felonies and trespasses.\n\nHe was appointed by the \"custos rotulorum\". \n\nAs the custos was prohibited from selling, so his appointee was forbidden to purchase this office.\n\nHe was responsible to the justices in session for the due performance of its duties.\n\nHe was required to be an able person, learned and instructed in the laws of the realm; and was to be an able and sufficient person, residing in the county, riding, division, or other place for which he was appointed. \n\nHe was to execute his office in person, or by his sufficient deputy, instructed in the laws of the realm, so that the same deputy be admitted, taken, and reputed, by the said custos rotulorum, to be sufficient and able to exercise, occupy, keep and enjoy the same office of clerkship of the peace.\n\nHe had an estate of freehold for life in the office, on condition of behaving well; so that he could not be dispossessed, except for misbehavior, and by a competent tribunal.\n\nThe clerk of the peace, by himself or his sufficient deputy, was required to be in constant attendance on the court of quarter sessions. He was to give notice of its being holden or adjourned; issue its processes; record its proceedings; and do all the ministerial acts necessary to give effect to its decisions. It was his duty, when prosecutors did not choose to seek professional assistance elsewhere, to draw the bills of indictment for felony at a fee of only one shilling each.\n\nThe fees of the clerk of the peace were to be ascertained, and a table expressing them approved by the court of general quarter sessions and sanctioned by the judges of the assize. Such table was to be deposited with the clerk of the peace, and an exact written or printed copy placed and kept in a conspicuous part of the room where the quarter session held.\n\nThe clerk of the peace, though appointed by the \"custos rotulorum\", was, when so appointed, the clerk of the court of quarter sessions. In the year-books he was styled \"Attornatus Domini Regis\"; and he was therefore also so far an officer of the Crown, that the entries are made up, and the issues joined in his name, as those on the Crown side of the King's Bench were in the name of the master of the Crown office. \n\nAll writs were served upon him on behalf of the justices, as their recognized organ, and it was both usual and convenient for the court, when it directed any proceedings to be taken or defended on behalf of the county, and at its charge, to commit the conduct of the case to him, as their attorney, if duly certificated, in which case he was invested with the rights, and subject to the responsibility of an attorney acting on behalf of individual clients.\n\nIn cities and towns corporate there was usually an analogous officer, who performed correspondent duties, under some other title, as that of town clerk, and was generally appointed, not by the \"custos rotulorum\", but by the body corporate of which he was an officer. Since 1836 the duties of town clerk are distinguished from those of clerk-of-the-peace in a borough.\n\nThe position of clerk of the peace continued to exist in former colonies into which English law had been introduced, including New South Wales, where the first clerk of the peace (Thomas Wylde) was appointed by a general order issued by Governor Macquarie on 1 January 1817. The appointment was confirmed by the British government and confirmation was published in an order of 16 January 1819. Thomas Wylde drew a salary for the position which he continued to occupy until his death on 4 December 1821. The office of clerk of the peace then lapsed for a time. \n\nWhen quarter sessions were instituted in the colony in 1823 by s.19 of the New South Wales Act 1823, Governor Brisbane appointed Frederick Garling (who had been one of the Crown solicitors since 1816) to act as clerk of the peace by an order dated 1 March 1824. Garling was appointed for the county of Cumberland and it appears that no others were appointed at that time. Garling was appointed a Crown prosecutor for Courts of Quarter Sessions in January 1830 and acted in a dual capacity until September 1837 when he resigned as a Crown prosecutor. In January 1839 he retired as clerk of the peace. \n\nBy this time the practice had arisen of appointing clerks of the peace for the various country districts where courts of quarter sessions were held. The position involved both the administrative functions necessary for the running of the court, i.e., as registrar of the court as well as that of attorney for the Crown. The \"Sydney Commercial Directory\" for 1850 lists clerks of the peace for Cumberland, Goulburn, Bathurst and Maitland. A single clerk of the peace for the whole colony, with power to appoint deputies, was first appointed in 1870. That situation remained much the same for over 100 years until 1973 when the courts of quarter sessions were abolished and the newly passed District Court Act of that year provided in section 170, 'The Clerk of the Peace has, in relation to the Court in its criminal and special jurisdiction and to proceedings in the Court in that jurisdiction the same powes, authorities, duties and functions as he had, in relation to Courts of Quarter Sessions and to proceedings in those Courts, immediately before the commencement of this Act'. The effect of this legislation effectively preserved the common law position of the clerk of the peace. \n\nThe dual function of the clerk of the peace in New South Wales, that is as registrar of the court as well as the prosecuting attorney for the Crown was recognised on 1 January 1980 when, by ministeral direction of the then attorney general, Frank Walker MLA, the title of the office became that of Solicitor for Public Prosecutions and Clerk of the Peace.\n\nThe end of the clerk of the peace in New South Wales came about on 23 December 1986 with the assent to the Criminal Procedure Act. Section 17(1) of that Act provided 'The office of Clerk of the Peace is abolished'. The registry functions of the office were taken over by a specifically appointed registrar of the District Court in its criminal jurisdiction while the prosecuting functions remained with what became the Public Prosecutions Office headed by the Solicitor for Public Prosecutions. In turn that office became that of the Director of Public Prosecutions the following year.\n\nSo far as is known, New South Wales was the last jurisdiction within the English Common Law world to have a clerk of the peace and the final clerk of the peace in New South Wales was Brian Roach.\n\nClerks of the peace also exist in the U.S. state of Delaware, where they are primarily responsible for issuing marriage licenses, except in Kent County, whose clerk is also the Clerk of the Levy Court.\n"}
{"id": "2376727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376727", "title": "Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified", "text": "Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified\n\nCollected Cases of Injustice Rectified or the Washing Away of Wrongs is a Chinese book written by Song Ci in 1247 during the Song Dynasty (960-1276) as a handbook for coroners. The author combined many historical cases of forensic science with his own experiences and wrote the book with an eye to avoiding injustice. The book was esteemed by generations of officials, and it was eventually translated into English, German, Japanese, French and other languages.\n\nIt is the first ever written book of forensic science.\n\nDifferent versions of the book exist, but the earliest existing version was published during the Yuan Dynasty, containing fifty-three chapters in five volumes. The first volume describes the imperial decree issued by Song Dynasty on the inspection of bodies and injuries. The second volume contains notes and methods on post-mortem examinations. The third, fourth, and fifth volumes detail the appearances of corpses from various causes of death and methods of treatments to certain injuries of a wounded person.\n\nSong Ci ruled regulation about autopsy report for court, how to protect the evidence in the examining process, the reason why workers must show examination to public impartiality; how to wash dead body for examining the different reasons of death. At that time, the book had given methods to distinguish suicide or pretending suicide.\n\nIn the book, Ci said:\nThe particulars of each case must be recorded in the doctor’s own handwriting. No one else is allowed to write his autopsy report. A coroner must not avoid performing an autopsy just because he detests the stench of corpses. A coroner must refrain from sitting comfortably behind a curtain of incense that masks the stench, letting his subordinates do the autopsy unsupervised, or allowing a petty official to write his autopsy report, otherwise any potential inaccuracy is unchecked and uncorrected.” \nHe also said:\n“Should there be any inaccuracy in an autopsy report, injustice would remain with the deceased as well as the living. A wrongful death sentence without justice may claim one or more additional lives, which would in turn result in feuds and revenges, prolonging the tragedy. In order to avoid any miscarriage of justice, the coroner must immediately examine the case personally.” \nIn \"The Washing Away of Wrongs\", the first documented forensic entomology case is reported. In 1235 A.D., a stabbing occurred in a Chinese village. By testing different blades on an animal carcass, it was determined that the wound was caused by a sickle. After further questioning, the investigator had all villagers bring their sickles and lay them out before the crowd. Blow flies were attracted to a single sickle because invisible remnants of blood and tissue still adhered to it. The owner of the alleged sickle later broke down and confessed the crime. In other areas of the text, the author demonstrates knowledge of blow fly activity on bodies relative to those orifices infested, the time of infestation, and the effect of trauma on attractiveness of tissue to such insects.\n\nBrian McKnight describes the murder case involving the sickle as thus:\nA local peasant from a Chinese village was found murdered, hacked to death by a hand sickle. The use of a sickle, a tool used by peasants to cut the rice at harvest time, suggested that another local peasant worker had committed the murder. The local magistrate began the investigation by calling all the local peasants who could be suspects into the village square. Each was to carry their hand sickles to the town square with them. Once assembled, the magistrate ordered the ten-or-so suspects to place their hand sickles on the ground in front of them and then step back a few yards. The afternoon sun was warm and as the villagers, suspects, and magistrates waited, bright shiny metallic green flies began to buzz around them in the village square. The shiny metallic colored flies then began to focus in on one of the hand sickles lying on the ground. Within just a few minutes many had landed on the hand sickle and were crawling over it with interest. None of the other hand sickles had attracted any of these pretty flies. The owner of the tool became very nervous, and it was only a few more moments before all those in the village knew who the murderer was. With head hung in shame and pleading for mercy, the magistrate led the murderer away. The witnesses of the murder were the brightly metallic colored flies known as the blow flies which had been attracted to the remaining bits of soft tissue, blood, bone and hair which had stuck to the hand sickle after the murder was committed. The knowledge of the village magistrate as to a specific insect group's behavior regarding their attraction to dead human tissue was the key to solving this violent act and justice was served in ancient China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22395878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22395878", "title": "Committee on Capital Markets Regulation", "text": "Committee on Capital Markets Regulation\n\nThe Committee on Capital Markets Regulation is an independent and nonpartisan 501(c)(3) research organization dedicated to improving the regulation of U.S. capital markets.\n\nThirty-six leaders from the financial sector, including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, private funds, insurance companies, and academia comprise the Committee's membership. The Committee co-Chairs are Glenn Hubbard, Dean of Columbia Business School, and John L. Thornton, Chairman of the Brookings Institution. The Committee’s Director is Professor Hal S. Scott, Emeritus Nomura Professor and Director of the Program on International Financial Systems at Harvard Law School. The Committee's research regarding the regulation of U.S. capital markets provides policymakers with a nonpartisan, empirical foundation for public policy.\n\nThe Committee was founded in 2006 by then-Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Paulson.\n\nIn 2009, the Committee determined four critical objectives based upon a year of observation and research into the financial crisis that are further broken down into 57 specific recommendations. These four objectives are:\n\nIn 2010, within a 37-page letter to Chairman Dodd, Ranking Member Shelby, Chairman Lincoln and Ranking Member Chambliss, the CCMR evaluated all major elements in the financial reform proposals that have emerged from Senate committees, but focused especially on four as areas for compromise:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "328685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328685", "title": "Constitutional Convention (Australia)", "text": "Constitutional Convention (Australia)\n\nIn Australian history, the term Constitutional Convention refers to four distinct gatherings.\n\nThe 1891 Constitutional Convention was held in Sydney in March 1891 to consider a draft Constitution for the proposed federation of the British colonies in Australia and New Zealand. There were 46 delegates at the Convention, chosen by the seven colonial parliaments. Among the delegates was Sir Henry Parkes, known as the \"Father of Federation\". The Convention approved a draft largely written by Andrew Inglis Clark and Samuel Griffith, but the colonial parliaments failed to act to give effect to it.\n\nThe next constitutional convention – the Australasian Federal Convention – was held in stages in 1897–98. Unlike the first convention, the delegates were elected by popular vote. It met first in Adelaide in March 1897, secondly in Sydney in August, and thirdly in Melbourne in the sweltering heat of January 1898. The intervals between the sessions were used for intense debate in the colonial parliaments and for public discussion of the draft constitution.\n\nSince 1891 New Zealand had lost interest in federating with the Australian colonies, and was not represented. In Queensland, the parliament had not passed the necessary legislation, so the northern colony was also unrepresented. In the other five colonies ten delegates from each colony were elected by the people, although Western Australian attendance was sporadic. At Melbourne the convention finally produced a draft constitution which was eventually approved by the people at referendums in the colonies.\n\nThe 1973 Constitutional Convention was established by the Whitlam government in 1973 to consider possible amendments to the Constitution which could be put to the people for approval at a referendum. The Convention, which was not elected but consisted of delegates chosen by the federal and state Parliaments, met through 1973–75 but was mired in the partisan atmosphere of the Whitlam years and achieved nothing.\n\nThe 1998 Constitutional Convention met in Canberra in February 1998. The Convention was convened by Prime Minister John Howard to fulfill a promise made by his predecessor as Liberal leader, Alexander Downer. During the Convention, Prime Minister John Howard dedicated an area of parkland to the south-east of Old Parliament House as Constitution Place, Canberra.\n\nThe Convention consisted of 152 delegates, of whom half were elected by the people and half were appointed by the federal government. This latter group included senior federal, state and territory politicians appointed by virtue of their positions.\n\nThe Convention was divided into four philosophical groups: those wanting to retain Australia's existing constitutional monarchy, those wanting Australia to become a republic with a president chosen by the Parliament (\"indirect electionists\"), those wanting Australia to become a republic with a president elected by the people (\"direct electionists\"), and those having no fixed position or seeking a compromise between the other groups. In the fourth group, Republicans dominated both subgroups, but proved far from united in their views.\n\nAt the opening of the Convention, Prime Minister John Howard stated:\n\n73 delegates voted in favour of the Bi-partisan appointment model, 57 against and 22 abstained. Not one constitutional monarchist delegate voted in favour. The policy of Australians for Constitutional Monarchy (ACM) and other monarchist groups was to oppose all republican models, including the minimalist McGarvie model. In response, John Howard stated to the Convention:\n\nA number of republicans who supported direct election abstained from the vote (such as Ted Mack, Phil Cleary, Clem Jones and Andrew Gunter), thereby allowing the bi-partisan model to succeed. They reasoned that the model would be defeated at a referendum, and a second referendum called with direct election as the model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "511100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511100", "title": "Council on Environmental Quality", "text": "Council on Environmental Quality\n\nThe Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) is a division of the Executive Office of the President that coordinates federal environmental efforts in the United States and works closely with agencies and other White House offices on the development of environmental and energy policies and initiatives.\n\nThe first Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality was Russell E. Train, under President Richard Nixon. The position of chair is currently vacant. President Donald Trump has nominated the agency's acting head, Mary Neumayr for the position.\n\nThe United States Congress established the CEQ within the Executive Office of the President as part of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), during the Richard Nixon administration. The CEQ was assigned additional responsibilities by the Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970. In enacting NEPA, Congress recognized that nearly all federal activities affect the environment in some way, and mandated that federal agencies must consider the environmental effects of their actions during their planning and decision-making processes. Under NEPA, CEQ works to balance environmental, economic, and social objectives in pursuit of NEPA's goal of \"productive harmony\" between humans and their environment.\n\nThe CEQ produces an annual report for the president on the state of the environment, oversees federal agency implementation of environmental impact assessments, and acts as a referee when agencies disagree over the adequacy of such assessments. NEPA tasks CEQ with ensuring that federal agencies meet their obligations under the Act, granting the body a significant role in environmental protection. Through inter-agency working groups and coordination with other EOP bodies, CEQ also works to advance the president's agenda on the environment, natural resources, and energy.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton appointed Kathleen McGinty and then George T. Frampton Jr. to chair the agency.\n\nPresident George W. Bush's CEQ chairman was James L. Connaughton, serving from 2001 to 2009. He was formerly a partner at the law firm Sidley Austin LLP, where he lobbied to reduce government regulation on behalf of clients including the Aluminum Company of America and the Chemical Manufacturers Association of America.\n\nDuring the Bush Administration, there were concerns over links between CEQ staffers and the industries it oversaw. BBC Environment Analyst Roger Harrabin described it as \"a hard-line group of advisers with close links to the U.S. oil industry.\" One CEQ chief of staff under President Bush, Philip Cooney, was previously a lobbyist employed by the American Petroleum Institute. In June 2005, \"The New York Times\" published an internal CEQ memo provided by federal whistleblower Rick Piltz. The memo showed Cooney had repeatedly edited government climate reports in order to play down links between emissions and global warming. Cooney, who claimed he had been planning to resign for two years, resigned two days after the scandal broke \"to spend more time with his family.\" Immediately after resigning, Cooney went to work for ExxonMobil in their public affairs department. In 2005 Piltz created a watchdog organization Climate Science Watch, a program of the Government Accountability Project.\n\nUnder President Barack Obama, Nancy Sutley served as Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality from January 2009 until February 2014. Following Sutley's departure, Michael Boots served as acting head of the Council until March 2015. Christy Goldfuss was appointed to succeed Boots, and served in the same capacity, as \"managing director\", until the end of Obama's term, in January 2017.\n\nIn October 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Kathleen Hartnett White, former chair of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, to be chair of CEQ. However, her nomination was withdrawn in February 2018 as she did not garner enough support in the Senate. CEQ chief of staff and acting head Mary Neumayr was nominated and considered in summer 2018 as chair, subject to full Senate confirmation vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22443031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22443031", "title": "Diplomacy in the American Revolutionary War", "text": "Diplomacy in the American Revolutionary War\n\nDiplomacy in the Revolutionary War had an important impact on the Revolution, as the United States evolved an independent foreign policy.\n\nBefore the Revolutionary war, extra-colonial relations were handled in London.\nThe colonies had agents in the United Kingdom, and established inter-colonial conferences. The colonies were subject to European peace settlements, settlements with Indian tribes, and inter-colony (between colonies) agreements.\n\nStarting in 1772, several colonies formed Committees of Correspondence. Parliament enacted the Tea Act, in 1773, and after the Boston Tea Party, the Boston Port Act, Massachusetts Government Act, (or Intolerable Acts), in 1774. On November 27, 1775, the Continental Congress established a Committee of Correspondence, which in 1781, became the Department of Foreign Affairs.\n\nLord North took the uncharacteristic role of conciliator for the drafting of a resolution which was passed on February 20, 1775. It was an attempt to reach a peaceful settlement with the Thirteen Colonies immediately prior to the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War; it declared that any colony that contributed to the common defense and provided support for the civil government, and the administration of justice (i.e. against any anti-Crown rebellion) would be relieved of paying taxes or duties except those necessary for the regulation of commerce; it was addressed and sent to the individual colonies, and intentionally ignored the Continental Congress.\n\nLord North hoped to divide the colonists amongst themselves, and thus weaken any revolution/independence movements (especially those represented by the Continental Congress).\n\nThe resolution proved to be \"too little, too late\", and the American Revolutionary War began at Lexington, on April 19, 1775. The Continental Congress released a report, (written by Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and Richard Henry Lee), dated July 31, 1775, rejecting it.\n\nWhen the Second Continental Congress convened in May 1775, most delegates followed John Dickinson in his quest to reconcile with George III of Great Britain. However, a smaller group of delegates led by John Adams believed that war was inevitable (or had already started), but remained quiet. This decision allowed John Dickinson, and his followers to pursue whatever means of reconciliation they wanted: the Olive Branch Petition was approved. It was first drafted by Thomas Jefferson, but John Dickinson found Jefferson's language too offensive, and he rewrote most of the document, although some of the conclusions remained Jefferson's. The letter was approved on 5 July, but signed and sent to London, on 8 July 1775.\n\nIn 1774, the British Parliament enacted the Quebec Act, along with other legislation that was labeled by American colonists as the Intolerable Acts. This measure guaranteed (among other things) the rights of French Canadians to practice Roman Catholicism.\n\nThe Letters to the inhabitants of Canada were three letters written by the First and Second Continental Congresses in 1774, 1775, and 1776 to communicate directly with the population of the Province of Quebec, formerly the French province of Canada, which had no representative system at the time. Their purpose was to draw the large French-speaking population to the American revolutionary cause. This goal ultimately failed, and Quebec, along with the other northern provinces of British America remained in British hands. The only significant assistance that was gained was the recruitment of two regiments totalling less than 1,000 men.\n\nIn December 1775, Vergennes sent Julien Alexandre Achard de Bonvouloir, a secret messenger to sound out the Continental Congress. He met with the Committee of Secret Correspondence.\n\nEarly in 1776, Silas Deane was sent to France, by Congress in a semi-official capacity, to induce the French government to lend its financial aid to the colonies. On arriving in Paris, Deane at once opened negotiations with Vergennes, and Beaumarchais, securing through Roderigue Hortalez and Company, the shipment of many arms and munitions to America. He also enlisted the services of a number of Continental soldiers of fortune, among whom were Lafayette, Baron Johann de Kalb, Thomas Conway, Casimir Pulaski, and Baron von Steuben.\n\nArthur Lee, was appointed correspondent of Congress in London in 1775. He was dispatched as an envoy to Spain and Prussia to gain their support for the rebel cause. King Frederick the Great strongly disliked the British, and impeded its war effort in subtle ways, such as blocking the passage of Hessians. However, British trade was too important to lose, and there was risk of attack from Austria, so he pursued a peace policy and officially maintained strict neutrality. Spain was willing to make war on Britain, but pulled back from full-scale support of the American cause because it intensely disliked republicanism, which was a threat to its Latin American Empire.\n\nIn December 1776, Benjamin Franklin was dispatched to France as commissioner for the United States. Franklin remained in France until 1785.\n\nThe Staten Island Peace Conference was a brief and unsuccessful meeting designed to bring an end to the American Revolution. The conference took place on September 11, 1776, on Staten Island, New York.\n\nIn early September 1776, after the British victory at the Battle of Long Island, Admiral Lord Howe, having been appointed Acting Peace Commissioner by King George III, met with John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and Edward Rutledge – to hold discussions. Lord Howe initially sought to meet with the men as private citizens (he knew Franklin prior to the war), but he agreed to the Americans' demand that he recognize them as the official representatives of the Congress. The Americans insisted that any negotiations required British recognition of their independence. Lord Howe stated he did not have the authority to meet that demand. The British resumed the campaign at the Landing at Kip's Bay.\n\nThe Commission was mandated by the Crown to offer the rebel Americans pardons (with some exceptions), to allow judges to serve on condition of good behaviour, and to promise to discuss colonial grievances (except the Quebec Act) in exchange for a cease-fire, the dissolution of the Continental Congress, the re-establishment of the pre-war (traditional) colonial assemblies, the acceptance of Lord North's Conciliatory Proposal and compensation for the Loyalists adversely affected by the war.\n\nThe Treaty of Fort Pitt, also known as the Treaty with the Delawares (\"Lenape\") or the Fourth Treaty of Pittsburgh, was signed on 17 September 1778 and was the first written treaty between the new United States of America and any American Indians—the Lenape in this case. Although many informal treaties were held with Native Americans during the American Revolution years of 1775–1783, this was the only one that resulted in a formal document. It was signed at Fort Pitt, Pennsylvania, site of present-day downtown Pittsburgh. It was essentially a formal treaty of alliance. It was largely unsuccessful as the majority of Indian tribes sided with the British.\n\nThe Franco-American Alliance (also called the Treaty of Alliance) was a pact between France and the Second Continental Congress, representing the United States government, ratified in May 1778.\n\nFranklin, with his charm offensive, was negotiating with Vergennes, for increasing French support, beyond the covert loans and French volunteers. With the American victory at the Battle of Saratoga, the French formalized the alliance against their British enemy; Conrad Alexandre Gérard de Rayneval conducted the negotiations with the American representatives, Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee. Signed on February 6, 1778, it was a defensive alliance where the two parties agreed to aid each other in the event of British attack. Further, neither country would make a separate peace with London, until the independence of the Thirteen Colonies was recognized.\n\nThe French strategy was ambitious, and even a large-scale invasion of Britain was contemplated. France believed it could defeat the British within two years.\n\nIn March 1778, Gérard de Rayneval sailed to America with d'Estaing's fleet; he received his first audience of Congress on August 6, 1778, as the first accredited Minister from France to the United States.\n\nIn 1778, after the British defeat at Saratoga (concluded Oct. 17, 1777), and fearful of French recognition of American independence, Prime Minister Lord North had repealed (February 1778) the Tea Act and the Massachusetts Government Act. As far as the Americans were concerned, it was far too late.\n\nA commission was sent to negotiate a settlement with the Americans, organized by William Eden, with George Johnstone, and headed by Frederick Howard, 5th Earl of Carlisle. However, they left only after news of the Treaty of Alliance had reached London. Arriving in Philadelphia, the Commission sent a package of proposals to Congress. Among the terms of the Commission, it was proposed that, \n\nMore effectually to demonstrate our good intentions, we think proper to declare, even in this our first communication, that we are disposed to concur in every satisfactory and just arrangement towards the following among other purposes: To consent to a cessation of hostilities, both by sea and land. To restore free intercourse, to revive mutual affection, and restore the common benefits of naturalisation through the several parts of this empire. To extend every freedom to trade that our respective interests can require. To agree that no military force shall be kept up in the different states of North America, without the consent of the general congress, or particular assemblies. To concur in measures calculated to discharge the debts of America, and raise the value and credit of the paper circulation. To perpetuate our union, by a reciprocal deputation of an agent or agents from the different states, who shall have the privilege of a seat and voice in the parliament of Great Britain; or, if sent from Britain, to have in that case a seat and voice in the assemblies of the different states to which they may be deputed respectively, in order to attend to the several interests of those by whom they are deputed. In short, to establish the power of the respective legislatures in each particular state, to settle its revenue, its civil and military establishment, and to exercise a perfect freedom of legislation and internal government, so that the British states throughout North America, acting with us in peace and war, under our common sovereign, may have the irrevocable enjoyment of every privilege that is short of a total separation of interest, or consistent with that union of force, on which the safety of our common religion and liberty depends.\n\nHowever, the British army left Philadelphia for New York, stiffening the resolve of Congress to insist upon recognition of Independence, which power was not given to the Commission.\n\nIn December 1780 the Commanders-in-Chief of the Royal forces in North America, Sir Henry Clinton and Vice-Admiral Mariot Arbuthnot, were appointed as the Crown's commissioners \"for restoring Peace to the Colonies and Plantations in North America, and for granting Pardon to such of his Majesty's Subjects now in Rebellion as shall deserve the Royal Mercy\". The Patriots ignored it.\n\nSpain was not an ally of the United States, (although an informal alliance had existed since at least 1776 between the Americans and Bernardo de Gálvez, Spanish governor of Louisiana, one of the most successful leaders in the entire war). In 1777, a new Prime Minister, José Moñino y Redondo, Count of Floridablanca had come to power, and had a reformist agenda that drew on many of the English liberal traditions. The French relied upon the Bourbon Family Compact, an alliance that had been in place since the Bourbons had become Spain's ruling dynasty in 1713. The Treaty of Aranjuez was signed on 12 April 1779; France agreed to aid in the capture of Gibraltar, Florida, and the island of Menorca. On 21 June 1779, Spain declared war on England.\n\nSpain's economy depended almost entirely on its colonial empire in the Americas, and they were worried about the United States' territorial expansion. With such considerations in mind, Spain persistently rebuffed John Jay's attempts to establish diplomatic relations. They were the last participant of the American Revolutionary War to acknowledge the independence of the United States, on 3 February 1783.\n\nRagusa (present-day Dubrovnik, Croatia), a major city with historical and cultural ties to Italy on the Adriatic Sea, was interested in the economic potential of the United States learned by its diplomatic representative in Paris, Francesco Favi. He was in touch with Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany at the request of the scholar Giovanni Fabbroni. The United States were anxious to conclude trade agreements with foreign powers during this period of the revolution. The American diplomat Arthur Lee learned that Italian merchants wanted to trade with the Americans but worried about the risk of corsairs or privateers. Since 1771, hides were delivered from Baltimore, New York City and Philadelphia to Marseille in France by ships from Ragusa. Ragusa entered into a trade agreement with the United States, and the Americans agreed to allow their ships free passage in their ports.\n\nBritain's diplomacy failed in the war—it had support of only a few small German states that hired out mercenaries. Most of Europe was officially neutral, but the elites and public opinion typically favoured the underdog American Patriots as in Sweden, Denmark,\n\nThe First League of Armed Neutrality was an alliance of minor European naval powers between 1780 and 1783 which was intended to protect neutral shipping against the British Royal Navy's wartime policy of unlimited search of neutral shipping for French contraband.\n\nEmpress Catherine II of Russia began the first League with her declaration of Russian armed neutrality on 11 March (28 February, Old Style), 1780, during the War of American Independence. She endorsed the right of neutral countries to trade by sea with nationals of belligerent countries without hindrance, except in weapons and military supplies. Russia would not recognize blockades of whole coasts, but only of individual ports, and only if a belligerent's warship were actually present or nearby. The Russian navy dispatched three squadrons to the Mediterranean, Atlantic, and North Sea to enforce this decree.\n\nDenmark and Sweden, accepting Russia's proposals for an alliance of neutrals, adopted the same policy towards shipping, and the three countries signed the agreement forming the League. They remained otherwise out of the war, but threatened joint retaliation for every ship of theirs searched by a belligerent. When the Treaty of Paris ended the war in 1783, Prussia, the Holy Roman Empire, the Netherlands, Portugal, the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies and the Ottoman Empire had all become members.\n\nAs the British Navy outnumbered all their fleets combined, the alliance as a military measure was what Catherine later called it, an \"armed nullity\". Diplomatically, however, it carried greater weight; France and the United States of America were quick to proclaim their adherence to the new principle of free neutral commerce. Britain—which did not—still had no wish to antagonize Russia, and avoided interfering with the allies' shipping. While both sides of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War tacitly understood it as an attempt to keep the Netherlands out of the League, Britain did not officially regard the alliance as hostile.\n\nIt was followed in the Napoleonic Wars by the Second League of Armed Neutrality which was massively less successful and ended after the British victory at the Battle of Copenhagen.\n\nIn 1776, the United Provinces were the first country to salute the Flag of the United States, leading to growing British suspicions of the Dutch. In 1778 the Dutch refused to be bullied into taking Britain's side in the war against France. The Dutch were major suppliers of the Americans: in 13 months from 1778 to 1779, for example, 3,182 ships cleared the island of Sint Eustatius, in the West Indies. When the British started to search all Dutch shipping for weapons for the rebels, the Republic officially adopted a policy of armed neutrality. Britain declared war in December 1780, before the Dutch could join the League of Armed Neutrality. This resulted in the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, which diverted British resources, but ultimately confirmed the decline of the Dutch Republic.\n\nIn 1782 John Adams negotiated loans of $2 million for war supplies, by Dutch bankers. On March 28, 1782, after a petition campaign on behalf of the American cause organised by Adams and the Dutch patriot politician Joan van der Capellen, the United Netherlands recognized American independence, and subsequently signed a treaty of commerce and friendship.\n\nSultan Mohammed III of Morocco declared on 20 December 1777 that American merchant ships would be under the protection of the Sultan of Morocco and could thus enjoy safe passage. The Moroccan-American Treaty of Friendship in 1786 became the oldest non-broken U.S. friendship treaty.\n\nAustria attempted to act as a mediator between France and Great Britain during the American Revolution, although it was Austria's revenge against France. John Adams traveled to Vienna in 1781 to lobby for American independence.\n\nCatherine the Great was neutral and played a modest role in the War through her setting up the League for Armed Neutrality in 1780.\n\nThe Peace of Paris was the set of treaties which ended the American Revolutionary War. In June 1781, the Congress appointed Peace commissioners to negotiate with the British. On 30 November 1782, preliminary Articles of Peace are signed by Richard Oswald, with representatives of the United States of America.\n\nNews of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown reached Britain late in November 1781, shortly before Parliament was due to debate the military spending estimates for the following year. The hastily revised plan was to retain forces in America at their existing level, but to abandon the policy of \"offensive\" war, in favour of a new approach, of defense against French and Spanish attacks in the Caribbean, and Gibraltar.\n\nTherefore, the decision was made to build on the \"no offensive war\" policy, and begin peace talks with the Americans. First, the stated aim of the 1778 Treaty of Alliance between the United States and France was specifically to maintain the independence of the United States. Second, for well over a year, informal discussions had been held with Henry Laurens, an American envoy captured on his way to Amsterdam and imprisoned in a small two-room suite at the Tower of London. The British negotiator sent to Paris was Richard Oswald, an old slave-trading partner of Henry Laurens, who had been one of his visitors in the Tower of London. His first talks with Franklin led to a proposal that Britain should hand over Canada to the Americans.\n\nOn 1 July Lord Rockingham, the figurehead leader of the government, died, so Lord Shelburne was forced to take over, which led to the resignation of Fox, and a massive split in the anti-war Whig party in Parliament. Regardless of this, the remainder of the negotiations would be carried out under Shelburne's devious leadership (some of these negotiations took place in his study, now a bar in the Lansdowne Club). For example, he took advantage of the great delay in trans-Atlantic communication to send a letter to George Washington stating that Britain was accepting American independence without preconditions, while not authorising Richard Oswald to make any such promise when he returned to Paris to negotiate with Franklin and his colleagues (John Jay had by this time returned from Spain).\n\nFranklin became ill with gout towards the end of summer, but when John Jay learned in September of the secret French mission to England, by Joseph Matthias Gérard de Rayneval, and the French position on the fisheries, he sent a message to Shelburne himself, explaining in some detail why he should avoid being influenced too much by the French and Spanish. At the same time Richard Oswald was asking if the terms of his commission to negotiate with the Americans could be slightly reworded to acknowledge that the 13 so-called colonies referred to themselves as \"United States\", and about 24 September, the Americans received word that this had been done.\n\nThe terms of the peace, particularly the proposed treaty with the United States, caused a political storm in Britain. The concession of the Northwest Territory and the Newfoundland fisheries, and especially the apparent abandonment of Loyalists by an Article which the individual States would inevitably ignore, were condemned in Parliament. The last point was the easiest solved—-British tax revenue saved by not continuing the war would be used to compensate Loyalists and many received free land in Nova Scotia. Nevertheless, on 17 February 1783 and again on 21 February, motions against the treaty were successful in Parliament, so on 24 February Lord Shelburne resigned, and for five weeks the British government was without a leader. Finally, a solution similar to the previous year's choice of Lord Rockingham was found. The government was to be led, nominally, by the Duke of Portland, while the two Secretaries of State were to be Charles Fox and, remarkably, Lord North. Richard Oswald was replaced by a new negotiator, David Hartley, but the Americans refused to allow any modifications to the treaty— partly because they would have to be approved by Congress, which with two Atlantic crossings, would take several months. Therefore, on 3 September 1783, at Hartley's hotel in Paris, the treaty as agreed to, by Richard Oswald the previous November, was formally signed, and at Versailles, the separate treaties with France and Spain were also formalised.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris, signed on September 3, 1783, ratified by the Congress of the Confederation on January 14, 1784 and by the King of Great Britain on April 9, 1784 (the ratification documents were exchanged in Paris on May 12, 1784), formally ended the American Revolutionary War between Great Britain and the United States of America, which had rebelled against British rule starting in 1775. The other combatant nations, France, Spain and the Dutch Republic had separate agreements; for details of these see Peace of Paris (1783).\n\nThe treaty document was signed at the Hôtel de York – which is now 56 Rue Jacob – by John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and John Jay (representing the United States) and David Hartley (a member of the British Parliament representing the British monarch, King George III). Hartley was lodging at the hotel, which was therefore chosen in preference to the nearby British Embassy – 44 Rue Jacob – as \"neutral\" ground for the signing.\n\nOn September 3, Britain also signed separate agreements with France and Spain, and (provisionally) with the Netherlands. In the treaty with Spain, the colonies of East and West Florida were ceded to Spain (without any clearly defined northern boundary, resulting in disputed territory resolved with the Treaty of Madrid), as was the island of Menorca, while the Bahama Islands, Grenada and Montserrat, captured by the French and Spanish, were returned to Britain. The treaty with France was mostly about exchanges of captured territory (France's only net gains were the island of Tobago, and Senegal in Africa), but also reinforced earlier treaties, guaranteeing fishing rights off Newfoundland. Dutch possessions in the East Indies, captured in 1781, were returned by Britain to the Netherlands in exchange for trading privileges in the Dutch East Indies.\n\nThe American Congress of the Confederation ratified the treaty of Paris on January 14, 1784, and copies were sent back to Europe for ratification by the other parties involved, the first reaching France in March. British ratification occurred on April 9, 1784, and the ratified versions were exchanged in Paris on May 12, 1784. It was not for some time, though, that the Americans in the countryside received the news due to the lack of communication.\n\nBased on preliminary articles made 30 November 1782, and approved by the Congress of the Confederation on 15 April 1783, this treaty was signed on 3 September 1783, and ratified by Congress on 14 January 1784, formally ending the American Revolutionary War between Great Britain and the thirteen former colonies which on 4 July 1776 had formed the United States of America.\n\nSigned at Versailles, 3 September 1783, by George Montagu, 4th Duke of Manchester and the Count of Aranda.\n\n\nPrivileges which the Americans had received from Britain automatically when they had colonial status were withdrawn, (including protection from pirates in the Mediterranean that led to the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War). Individual states ignored Federal recommendations, under Article 5, to restore confiscated Loyalist property, and also evaded Article 6 (e.g. by confiscating Loyalist property for \"unpaid debts\"). Some, notably Virginia, also defied Article 4, and maintained laws against payment of debts to British creditors. Individual British soldiers ignored the provision of Article 7, about removal of slaves. The real geography of North America turned out not to match the details, given in the Canadian boundary descriptions. The Treaty specified a southern boundary for the United States, but the separate Anglo-Spanish agreement did not specify a northern boundary for Florida, and the Spanish government assumed that the boundary was the same as in the 1763 agreement, by which they had first given their territory in Florida to Britain. While that dispute continued, Spain used its new control of Florida to block American access to the Mississippi, in defiance of Article 8. In the Great Lakes area, the British adopted a very generous interpretation of the stipulation that they should relinquish control \"with all convenient speed\", because they needed time to negotiate with the Native Americans, who had kept the area out of United States control, but had been completely ignored in the Treaty. Even after that was accomplished, Britain retained control as a bargaining counter in hopes of obtaining some recompense for the confiscated Loyalist property. This matter was finally settled by the Jay Treaty in 1794, and America's ability to bargain on all these points was greatly strengthened by the creation of the new constitution in 1787, and victory at the Battle of Fallen Timbers.\n\nIn 1784, the British allowed trade with the United States but forbade some American food exports to the West Indies, while British exports to America reached £3.7 million, and imports only £750,000. This imbalance caused a shortage of gold in the U.S.\nIn 1784, New York-based merchants opened the China trade, followed by Salem, Boston, Philadelphia.\nIn 1785, John Adams was appointed first minister to the Court of St James's (Great Britain), and Jefferson replaced Franklin as minister to France.\nIn 1789, the Jay–Gardoqui Treaty granted Spain the exclusive right to navigate the Mississippi River for 30 years, but was not ratified because of opposition from Western states.\n\nIn 1793, a worldwide war erupted between Great Britain and France, and their respective allies. In April, George Washington issued a proclamation announcing the neutrality of the United States in the conflict among the belligerent nations of Europe. America remained neutral until 1812, did business with both sides, and was harassed by both sides.\nGeorge Washington appointed John Quincy Adams United States Ambassador to the Netherlands in 1794, and to Portugal in 1796.\nIn 1795, the United States signed the Jay Treaty with Britain which averted war, and led to a decade of peaceful trade, but failed to settle neutrality issues. The British eventually evacuated the Western forts, with boundary lines and debts (in both directions), settled by arbitration. The treaty was barely approved by the Senate (1795) after revision, and was intensely opposed. It became a major issue in formation of the first party system.\n\nThe Treaty of Madrid established boundaries between the United States and the Spanish colonies of Florida and Louisiana, and guaranteed navigation rights on the Mississippi River. In 1797, the United States signed a peace treaty with the Barbary state of Tripoli. However, this treaty was violated in 1801 by the Basha of Tripoli, which led to the Tripolitanian War. Also in 1797, the XYZ Affair erupted, with the humiliation of the United States government by French diplomats, leading to the threat of war with France, and ultimately the Quasi-War, an undeclared naval war from 1798 to 1800.\n\nJohn Adams in 1797 appointed his son John Quincy Adams as Minister to Prussia. There, Adams signed the renewal of the very liberal Prussian-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce after negotiations with Prussian Foreign Minister Count Karl-Wilhelm Finck von Finckenstein.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nI\n"}
{"id": "2663915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2663915", "title": "E-3 visa", "text": "E-3 visa\n\nThe E-3 visa is a United States visa for which only citizens of Australia are eligible. It was created by an Act of the United States Congress as a result of the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement (AUSFTA), although it is not formally a part of the AUSFTA. The legislation creating the E-3 visa was signed into law by U.S. President George W. Bush on May 11, 2005. It is widely believed to have grown out of the negotiation of a trade deal between the US and Australia.\n\nThe E-3 visa is similar in many respects to the H-1B visa. Important differences include the fact that spouses of E-3 visa holders may work in the United States without restrictions (unlike other US non-immigrant visas, even the TN visa issued to Canadian and Mexican citizens), even if they are of a different nationality; that the E-3 visa is renewable indefinitely (in two-year increments); and that the application process is much quicker. Australian citizens applying for an E-3 visa are also no longer subject to the 65,000 annual visa limit for H-1B visas; although there is a separate annual quota of 10,500 E-3 visas, this is believed to be much more generous to Australians than requiring them to compete with all other nations for H-1B visas. (One calculation is that the E-3 guarantees Australians 15% of the combined annual total of US visas for persons in specialty occupations, should they want such visas, even though with a population of approximately 23.4 million Australia accounts for only 0.3% of the world’s non-US population.) Visas issued to spouses and children are not included in the E-3 quota and spouses and children do not need to be Australian citizens.\n\nAlthough INA § 101(a)(15)(E) requires that all E nonimmigrants maintain an intention to depart the United States upon expiration of their authorized E stay, the guidelines issued by the USCIS state that applications for E classification, including extensions or change of status, cannot be denied solely on the basis of an approved permanent labor certification or pending or approved immigrant visa petition. Therefore, immigrant intent should not be a bar to eligibility for E-3 classification.\n\nThe regulations for applying for an E-3 visa were published in the United States Federal Register on September 2, 2005. Following these procedures will allow an Australian citizen to apply for an E-3 visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate.\n\nSimilar to an H-1B visa, the prospective employer of the E-3 visa holder will first apply for a Labor Condition Application (LCA) with the U.S. Department of Labor, with a note at the top of the form indicating it is for an E-3 visa for an Australian citizen. After the LCA is approved, the Australian citizen will then apply for the actual visa at a U.S. consulate and then enter the U.S.\n\nAustralians who are already in the United States on another type of temporary/non-immigrant visa may also apply to change their status to an E-3 visa. Change of visa status is not possible if the applicant has entered the country under the visa waiver program, however, if the applicant has entered on a different visa (F-1 student) then a change of status is allowed.\n\nSince the introduction of the E-3 visas, between 2,000-3,000 E-3 visas have been issued by US consulates to Australian professionals every year. In addition to this, E-3R visas are issued to the returning Australian professionals whose original visas had expired. The numbers are as follows: 4 new visas in Fiscal Year 2005; 1,918 new visas in FY 2006; 2,572 new and 6 returning in FY 2007; 2,961 new and 1,568 returning in FY 2008; and 2,191 new and 1,421 returning in FY 2009. In addition to this, 1,000 to 1,500 E-3D visas are issued annually to these professionals' dependents. (Each US fiscal year starts and ends three months before the calendar year with the same number).\n\nIn U.S. Fiscal Year 2006 (October 2005 through September 2006), which was the first full year during which E-3 regulations were in effect, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security recorded 2,123 admissions of Australian citizens as E-3 status foreign workers under the treaty. 9,294 admissions were recorded in U.S. Fiscal Year 2007 (October 2006 through September 2007).\n\nImportantly, the number of admissions in a given fiscal year is different from the number of visas issued: an E-3 visa is a multiple-entry visa valid for 24 months, and every reentry of the visa holder into the US (other than after short trips to the \"near abroad\", i.e. Canada or Mexico) during this time will generate a new admission record.\n\nThe Australian \"subclass 457 long stay business visa\" provides similar working rights in Australia for U.S. citizens. However this visa is available to any nationality and hence no special work permit for U.S. citizens has been introduced in Australia. Recent legislative changes in Australian skilled worker visas has further narrowed the scope of jobs under which an individual may be granted a visa. Even so, unlike the E-3 program, no degree is necessarily required to obtain a work visa on Australia as is the case with the E-3 Visa.\n\nUp to 23 August 2010, it was possible to use one year of residence in the United States as a holder of an H-1B, H-1B1, H-1C, or E-3 visa, while employed in an eligible occupation, to obtain provincial nomination from Alberta for permanent residence in Canada. This was withdrawn due to Alberta being limited to a maximum of 5,000 nominations of any type, at all, under Canada's provincial nominee program.\n\nThe E-3 visa was enacted by section 501 of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief on May 11, 2005. (Section 502 of the Act addressed certain visas for nurses.) Although the bill, H.R. 1268, originated in the House of Representatives, the E-3 visa was added in the Senate's amendment to the House bill.\n\nThe visa was created within the E category of visas. The E-1 and E-2 visas are commonly called the \"treaty trader\" and \"treaty investor\" visas. Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the E category of visas is reserved for aliens who \"enter the United States under and in pursuance of the provisions of a treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States and the foreign state of which he is a national.\" Australia is eligible for E visas pursuant to a process enacted in the Immigration Act of 1990 (Pub. L. No. 101-649). Section 204 of that Act authorized E visas for any country that \"extends reciprocal nonimmigrant treatment to nationals of the United States,\" and is either the largest foreign state in a region or an \"adversely affected foreign state for purposes of section 314 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.\" The enactment of the E-3 visa within the E category reflects that the E-3 was closely related to the U.S.-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Although the visa is within the E category, its substantive provisions draw on other provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, including the definitions of a \"specialty occupation\" and the labor attestation process used for H-1B visas.\n\nOn November 28 2018 Congress passed a bill which would allow citizens of Ireland to benefit from the E3 visas not used up by Australian citizens. Australian citizens would still have first preference for the 10,500 E3 visas. The bill has been forwarded to the US Senate where it will require unanimous consent to pass given the fact that the current Senate is in its lame duck sessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47664875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47664875", "title": "Eicher Polaris Multix", "text": "Eicher Polaris Multix\n\nThe Eicher Polaris Multix (or Multix) was a personal utility vehicle manufactured by Eicher Motors and Polaris India (the Indian arm of Polaris Industries). The vehicle was announced in June 2015, and the first vehicle was delivered on 26 August 2015. Multix is promoted by its manufacturer as \"India's first personal utility vehicle\", able to be used as a people carrier, a cargo carrier and also a power generator.\n\nIn July 2012, Eicher Motors and Polaris Industries formed a 50:50 joint venture (JV) to manufacture vehicles in India. This JV was formed with an initial investment of and the new company was named \"Eicher Polaris Pvt. Ltd.\" Thereafter, Eicher Motors and Polaris Industries combined their research and development facilities in their new manufacturing plant in Kukas, Jaipur, Rajasthan, India.\n\nIn May 2018, Eicher and Polaris announced they were closing down the Indian-joint venture, and discontinuing the Multix.\n\nThe Multix was designed with the aim of being used for both family and business purposes, and has been called a \"3-in-1\" vehicle. Its cargo capacity is 400 litres. Multix also generates 3 kilowatts of electricity and can thus be used as a power generator as well.\n\nThe Multix has two variants, the AX+ and the MX. With the exception of doors (and the overall weight of the vehicle), both the variants are identical. AX+ has open doorways, whilst MX has doors. The curb weight of the MX is 100 kg more than that of AX+.\n\nAs of October 2015, 30 JV dealerships had been set up to sell Multix models, in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Eicher Polaris Pvt. Ltd plans to have dealerships throughout India by mid-2017.\n\nFour colors were available as of June 2015.\n\nThe first Multix vehicle was sold in August 2015, to Ganesh Narayan Choudhary. The company expects to sell 60,000 vehicles per year.\n\nEicher Polaris Pvt. Ltd has contracted with Cholamandalam Investment, and as of August 2015 was in negotiations with a number of other financial institutions, to provide financing to customers wanting to buy a Multix AX+ or MX.\n\nAs a new entrant in the Indian automotive market, the Eicher Motors-Polaris India partnership is expected to face challenges in establishing its brand. G. Balachandar of \"The Hindu\" referred to the Multix as able to convert from \"a small car with space for family of 5 [to] a small truck with storage space\" and said the innovative vehicle would \"create its own segment of buyers.\" Another article in \"The Hindu\"s \"Business Line\" praised the Multix's \"smooth ride\" and ability to \"handl[e] rough terrain\", and suggested it could \"replace other mobility options\" such as trucks, tractors and traditional automobiles. Santanu Choudhury, blogging for \"The Wall Street Journal\", noted that the Multix was both small enough to give buyers the maneuverability needed for narrow or congested streets, and equipped to handle adverse road conditions including severe ruts and minor flooding. He also praised the possibilities opened up by the Multix's power generation capability, suggesting it could be used \"to light up homes, power tools or even run a DJ console.\"\n\n\"Multix AX+\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2701027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701027", "title": "Election in Cetin", "text": "Election in Cetin\n\nThe election in Cetin (, meaning Parliament on Cetin or Parliament of Cetin) was an assembly of the Croatian Parliament in the Cetin Castle in 1527. It followed a succession crisis in the Kingdom of Hungary caused by the death of Louis II, and which resulted in the Kingdom of Croatia joining the Habsburg Monarchy. The charter electing the Habsburg Archduke of Austria Ferdinand I as King of Croatia was confirmed with the seals of six Croatian nobles and four representatives of the Archduke.\n\nFaced with the overwhelming force of the Ottoman Empire, the nobility of the Kingdom of Croatia was alarmed as the Siege of Belgrade of 1521 caused the Kingdom of Hungary to lose its last fortress on the Danube to Suleiman the Magnificent. King Louis II showed no interest in defense, and was in a dire financial situation at the time. The Croatians appealed to the Pope, Venice, Emperor Charles V and Archduke Ferdinand for help, but had little success.\n\nThe majority of Croatian magnates and members of lower nobility were keen to elect a new king. The gathering (\"sabor\") was caused by a monarchical crisis after the death of king Louis II and a major defeat of the Kingdom of Hungary at the Battle of Mohács on 29 August 1526. The young king Louis II had held the crown of Croatia among other titles, but left no legitimate heir.\n\nAt the session of Hungarian parliament in Székesfehérvár on 10 November 1526, the majority of the Hungarian untitled lesser nobility (the gentry) chose the Croatian origin John Zápolya to be the king of Hungary. Ferdinand of Habsburg was also elected King of Hungary by the Hungarian higher aristocracy (the magnates or barons) in a rump Diet in Pozsony on 17 December 1526.\n\nThe Austrian Archduke was interested in the Croatian election in order to oppose Zápolya, promising at the same time to protect Croatia in turbulent period of Ottoman expansion to the north. In the second half of December 1526 he sent his envoys to be present at the time of the Parliament session.\n\nThe Croatian nobles met at Cetin on December 31, 1526 to discuss their strategy and choose a new leader. The assembly occurred in the Franciscan monastery below the Cetin Castle in the settlement of Cetingrad. At that time, the owners of the castle and the surrounding estate, where the assembly was held, were the House of Frankopan.\n\nThe Croatians had few options, and the election of Ferdinand was a natural one because he was not only the powerful Archduke of Austria, he also ruled the lands of Croatia's Slavic neighbours, the Slovenes, as both Duke of Carinthia and Carniola.\n\nAdvocates of both options, after a long debate, finally agreed on Ferdinand on January 1, 1527.\n\nFerdinand I was elected the new king of Croatia, and the assembly \"confirmed the succession to him and his heirs\".\n\nIn return for the throne Ferdinand promised to respect the historic rights, freedoms, laws and customs the Croats had when united with the Hungarian kingdom, and to defend Croatia from Ottoman invasion and subjugation.\n\nThe Austrian plenipotentiaries present were:\n\nThe charter signed by the Croatian nobles, which bears a fine example of the chequered state seal of Croatia, is among the most important documents of Croatian statehood, showing a special political status of the Croatian state at that time coming out of it.\n\nThe Charter confirmed at the same time the ancient statehood right of Croatian nobility to self-regulate the major state issues - among which was election of a king – freely and independently, regardless of opinion or decision of Hungarian Diet, since the two countries were in personal union from 1102.\n\nThe text of the Charter contains first the listing of names of the present Croatian high nobility members, church dignitaries and low nobility members, as well as names and titles of Ferdinand's plenipotentiaries, then the quotation of arguments for legally valid election of a Habsburger to be hereditary ruler of Croatia, further the declaratory statement of recognition and announcement of the Austrian archduke as king and his wife Anna (sister of Louis II) as queen, and finally \"the swearing-in of loyalty, obedience and allegiance\". Place and date of issue are specified at the end of text as well.\n\nBeneath the text there are seven seals of most notable Croatian magnates and dignitaries to verify the Charter, in the following sequence:\n\nLeft side\nIn the middle there is a chequered state seal of Croatia.\nRight side\nFerdinand's plenipotentiaries took over the Charter from the Croats and took it with them on their way back to Vienna. In return, earlier that day, in a document called \"Coronation Oath\", they confirmed the promises and assurances of Ferdinand (given before upon the previous demands of the Croats), and accepted all the related obligations and responsibilities of the new-elected king.\n\nBefore their return to Vienna, the plenipotentiaries wrote a letter to their principal on 3 January 1527 in which they informed him about the sequence of events during the Parliament session and explained their delay and longer stay in Croatia than expected before (among other things, some of Croatian magnates did not have their seals with them, but needed to go home and to verify the Charter afterwards).\n\nOn January 6, 1527, the Slavonian nobility distanced themselves from this election and nominated John Zápolya the rival claimant to the Hungarian throne instead. A civil war erupted, with Ferenc Batthyány leading the pro-Habsburg faction and Christoph Frankopan leading the pro-Zápolya faction. The Austrian option ultimately prevailed after Zápolya's death in 1540.\n\nThe charter is preserved at the National Archives of Austria in Vienna.\n\nThe Constitution of Croatia describes these events as one of the historical foundations of Croatian sovereignty, as an \"independent and sovereign decision of the Croatian Parliament\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27405919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27405919", "title": "Family Court (Ireland)", "text": "Family Court (Ireland)\n\nThe Family Court (Ireland) is a division of the District, Circuit and High Courts that deals with family law matters in Ireland. In principle all hearings are in camera and reporting is anonymous, restricted and issued quarterly by a single journalist. The following matters are covered by the Family Court:\n\n\nThe court has been the subject of criticisms which have led to its procedures being included in the Third Programme for Law Reform, as well as the attempted implementation of new procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "973198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=973198", "title": "Federal Analogue Act", "text": "Federal Analogue Act\n\nThe Federal Analogue Act, , is a section of the United States Controlled Substances Act passed in 1986 which allowed any chemical \"substantially similar\" to a controlled substance listed in Schedule I or II to be treated as if it were also listed in those schedules, but only if intended for human consumption. These similar substances are often called designer drugs.\n\n\n\"United States v. Forbes\", 806 F. Supp. 232 (D. Colo. 1992), a Colorado district court case, considered the question of whether the drug alphaethyltryptamine (AET) was a controlled substance analogue in the United States. The controlled drugs to which it was alleged that AET was substantially similar were the tryptamine analogues dimethyltryptamine (DMT) and diethyltryptamine (DET).\nAET\nDMT\nDET\n\nIn this case, the court ruled that AET was not substantially similar to DMT or DET, on the grounds that (i) AET is a primary amine while DMT and DET are tertiary amines, (ii) AET cannot be synthesized from either DMT or DET, and (iii) the hallucinogenic or stimulant effects of AET are not substantially similar to the effects of DMT or DET. Furthermore, the court ruled that the definition of controlled substance analogue given in the Federal Analogue Act was unconstitutionally vague, in that\n\n“Because the definition of 'analogue' as applied here provides neither fair warning nor effective safeguards against arbitrary enforcement, it is void for vagueness.”\n\nThe common law principle that the people should have the right to know what the law is, means that the wording of laws should be sufficiently clear and precise that it is possible to give a definitive answer as to whether a particular course of action is legal or illegal. However, despite this ruling the Federal Analogue Act was not revised, and instead AET was specifically scheduled to avoid any future discrepancies.\n\nAs a district court decision, this case is no binding precedent.\n\n\"United States v. Washam\" (2002) 312 F.3d 926, 930 was an appellate decision for the eighth judicial circuit in which it was considered whether the drug 1,4-butanediol (1,4-B) was a controlled substance analogue in the United States. The controlled drug which it was alleged 1,4-B was substantially similar to was gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB). \n\n1,4-B\nGHB\n\nIn this case the court ruled that 1,4-B was substantially similar to GHB, on the grounds that (i) “1,4-Butanediol and GHB are both linear compounds containing four carbons and that there is only one difference between the substances on one side of their molecules”, and (ii) that 1,4-B is metabolized into GHB by the body and so produces substantially similar physiological effects.\n\nIt was raised in defense that 1,4-B and GHB contain different functional groups, and that the food additive monosodium glutamate (MSG) also metabolizes into GHB in the body, but these were not held to be grounds to consider 1,4-B not substantially similar to GHB.\n\nIt was also raised in the case of \"Washam\" that the Federal Analogue Act was unconstitutionally vague, but in this case the court rejected this argument on the grounds that the defendant’s actions in concealing her activities and lying to DEA agents showed that she knew her actions were illegal, and furthermore that “…a person of common intelligence has sufficient notice under the statute that 1,4-Butanediol is a controlled substance analogue.” The court in \"Washam\" construed the Analogue Act to require parts A(i) and either A(ii) or A(iii), and concluded the Act was constitutionally permissible upon this construction.\n\nAs a result of \"Washam\", the Federal Analogue Act has been upheld (at least for the states and territories comprising the eighth judicial circuit) and can be considered valid at the present time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8200877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8200877", "title": "Fraud Act 2006", "text": "Fraud Act 2006\n\nThe Fraud Act 2006 (c 35) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which affects England and Wales and Northern Ireland. It was given royal assent on 8 November 2006, and came into effect on 15 January 2007.\n\nThe Act gives a statutory definition of the criminal offence of fraud, defining it in three classes - fraud by false representation, fraud by failing to disclose information, and fraud by abuse of position. It provides that a person found guilty of fraud was liable to a fine or imprisonment for up to twelve months on summary conviction (six months in Northern Ireland), or a fine or imprisonment for up to ten years on conviction on indictment. This Act largely replaces the laws relating to obtaining property by deception, obtaining a pecuniary advantage and other offences that were created under the Theft Act 1978. These offences attracted much criticism for their complexity and difficulty in proving at court. Much of the Theft Act 1978 has been repealed, but the offence of making off without payment, defined under section 3 has not been affected.\n\n\nIn all three classes of fraud, it requires that for an offence to have occurred, the person must have acted dishonestly, and that they had to have acted with the intent of making a gain for themselves or anyone else, or inflicting a loss (or a risk of loss) on another.\n\nA \"gain\" or a \"loss\" is defined to consist only of a gain or a loss in money or property (including intangible property), but could be temporary or permanent. A \"gain\" could be construed as gaining by keeping their existing possessions, not just by obtaining new ones, and loss included losses of expected acquisitions, as well as losses of already-held property.\n\nThe Act will establish two \"supporting\" offences, these being the possession of articles for use in frauds (Section 6) and the making or supplying of articles for use in frauds (Section 7).\n\nSection 11 of the Act makes it a statutory offence to obtain services dishonestly; meaning that services which were to be paid for were obtained with the knowledge or intention that no payment would be made. A person found guilty of this will be liable to a fine or imprisonment for up to twelve months on summary conviction (six months in Northern Ireland), or a fine or imprisonment for up to five years on conviction on indictment.\n\nIn regard to the fraudulent behavior of companies, the existing offence of participating in fraudulent business carried on by a company, provided for by the Companies Act 1985, was amended by Section 10 - bringing the maximum penalty from 10 years imprisonment to 15 years [And/or a fine] - and a new offence of participating in fraudulent business carried on by a sole trader was established by Section 9.\n\nSection 12 of the Act provides that where an offence against the Act was committed by a body corporate, but was carried out with the \"consent or connivance\" of any director, manager, secretary or officer of the body - or any person purporting to be such - then that person, as well as the body itself, is liable.\n\nAn important difference between this and the Theft Act is that the Fraud Act offences do not require there to have been a victim, as was the case with the Theft Act.\n\nSome Trading Standards services have already used the Act against bogus charity collectors and it can be used for some matters that were previously dealt with under repealed sections of the Trade Descriptions Act 1968 (e.g. car-clocking).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063080", "title": "Fugitive slave laws", "text": "Fugitive slave laws\n\nThe fugitive slave laws were laws passed by the United States Congress in 1793 and 1850 to provide for the return of slaves who escaped from one state into another state or territory. The idea of the fugitive slave law was derived from the Fugitive Slave Clause which is in the United States Constitution (Article IV, Section 2, Paragraph 3). It was thought that forcing states to deliver escaped slaves to slave owners violated states' rights due to state sovereignty and was believed that seizing state property should not be left up to the states. The Fugitive Slave Clause states that escaped slaves \"shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due\", which abridged state rights because retrieving slaves was a form of retrieving private property. After the Compromise of 1850, the Supreme Court made slavery a protected institution and arranged a series of laws that allowed slavery in the new territories and forced officials in Free States to give a hearing to slaveholders without a jury.\n\nThe Articles of Confederation of the New England Confederation of 1643 contained a clause that provided for the return of fugitive slaves. However, this only referred to the confederation of colonies of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut and New Haven, and was unrelated to the Articles of Confederation of the United States formed after the Declaration of Independence. Both Africans and Native Americans were slaves in the New England colonies even in the 18th century. The Articles for the New England Confederation provided for the return of slaves in Section 8:\n\nAs the colonies grew and settlers expanded into other areas, slavery continued in the English territories and in former Dutch territories like New Amsterdam, which became New York.\n\nSerious attempts at formulating a uniform policy for the recapture of escaped slaves began under the Articles of Confederation of the United States in 1785.\n\nThere were two attempts at implementing a fugitive slave law in the Congress of the Confederation in order to provide slave owners with a way of recapturing escaped slaves.\n\nThe Ordinance of 1784 was drafted by a Congressional committee headed by Thomas Jefferson, and its provisions applied to all United States territory west of the original 13 states. The original version was read to Congress on March 1, 1784, and it contained a clause stating:\n\nThat after the year 1800 of the Christian Era, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of the said states, otherwise than in punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted to have been personally guilty.\nThis was removed prior to final enactment of the ordinance on 23 April 1784. However, the issue did not die there, and on 6 April 1785 Rufus King introduced a resolution to re-implement the slavery prohibition in the 1784 ordinance, containing a fugitive slave provision in the hope that this would reduce opposition to the objective of the resolution. The resolution contained the phrase:\n\nProvided always, that upon the escape of any person into any of the states described in the said resolve of Congress of the 23d day of April, 1784, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the thirteen original states, such fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and carried back to the person claiming his labor or service as aforesaid, this resolve notwithstanding.\n\nThe unsuccessful resolution was the first attempt to include a fugitive slave provision in U.S. legislation.\n\nWhile the original 1784 ordinance applied to all U.S. territory that was not a part of any existing state (and thus, to all future states), the 1787 ordinance applied only to the Northwest Territory.\n\nCongress made a further attempt to address the concerns of slave owners over runaway slaves in 1787 by passing the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. The law appeared to outlaw slavery, which would have reduced the votes of slave states in Congress, but southern representatives were concerned with economic competition from potential slaveholders in the new territory, and the effects that would have on the prices of staple crops such as tobacco. They correctly predicted that slavery would be permitted south of the Ohio River under the Southwest Ordinance of 1790, and therefore did not view this as a threat to slavery. In terms of the actual law, it did not ban slavery in practice, and it continued almost until the start of the Civil War.\n\nKing's phrasing from the 1785 attempt was incorporated in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 when it was enacted on 13 July 1787. Article 6 has the provision for runaway slaves:\n\nArt. 6. There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted: \"Provided, always\", That any person escaping into the same, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the original States, such fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and conveyed to the person claiming his or her labor or service as aforesaid.\n\nWhen Congress created \"An Act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters\", or more commonly known as the Fugitive Slave Act, they were responding to slave owners' need to protect their property rights, as written into the 1787 Constitution. Article IV of the Constitution required the federal government to go after runaway slaves. The 1793 Fugitive Slave Act was the mechanism by which the government did that, and it was only at this point the government could pursue runaway slaves in any state or territory, and ensure slave owners of their property rights.\n\nSection 3 is the part that deals with fugitive or runaway slaves, and reads in part:\n\nSEC. 3. ... That when a person held to labor in any of the United States, or of the Territories on the Northwest or South of the river Ohio ... shall escape into any other part of the said States or Territory, the person to whom such labor or service may be due ... is hereby empowered to seize or arrest such fugitive from labor ... and upon proof ... before any Judge ... it shall be the duty of such Judge ... [to remove] the said fugitive from labor to the State or Territory from which he or she fled.\n\nSection 4 makes assisting runaways and fugitives a crime and outlines the punishment for those who assisted runaway slaves:\n\nSEC. 4. ... That any person who shall knowingly and willingly obstruct or hinder such claimant ... shall ... forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars.\n\nIn the early 19th century, personal liberty laws were passed to hamper officials in the execution of the law, but this was mostly after the abolition of the Slave Trade, as there had been very little support for abolition prior; Indiana in 1824 and Connecticut in 1828 provided jury trial for fugitives who appealed from an original decision against them. In 1840, New York and Vermont extended the right of trial by jury to fugitives and provided them with attorneys. As early as the first decade of the 19th century, individual dissatisfaction with the law of 1793 had taken the form of systematic assistance rendered to African Americans escaping from the South to Canada or New England: the so-called Underground Railroad.\n\nThe decision of the Supreme Court in the case of \"Prigg v. Pennsylvania\" in 1842 (16 Peters 539)—that state authorities could not be forced to act in fugitive slave cases, but that national authorities must carry out the national law—was followed by legislation in Massachusetts (1843), Vermont (1843), Pennsylvania (1847) and Rhode Island (1848), forbidding state officials from aiding in enforcing the law and refusing the use of state jails for fugitive slaves.\n\nThe demand from the South for more effective Federal legislation was voiced in the second fugitive slave law, drafted by Senator James Murray Mason of Virginia, grandson of George Mason, and enacted on September 18, 1850, as a part of the Compromise of 1850. Special commissioners were to have concurrent jurisdiction with the U.S. circuit and district courts and the inferior courts of territories in enforcing the law; fugitives could not testify in their own behalf; no trial by jury was provided.\n\nPenalties were imposed upon marshals who refused to enforce the law or from whom a fugitive should escape, and upon individuals who aided black people to escape; the marshal might raise a \"posse comitatus\"; a fee of $10 ($ in today's dollars) was paid to the commissioner when his decision favored the claimant, only $5 ($ in today's dollars) when it favored the fugitive. The supposed justification for the disparity in compensation was that, if the decision were in favor of the claimant, additional effort on the part of the commissioner would be required in order to fill out the paperwork actually remanding the slave back to the South. Both the fact of the escape and the identity of the fugitive were determined on purely \"ex parte\" testimony. If a slave was brought in and returned to the master, the person who brought in the slave would receive the sum of $10 ($ in today's dollars) per slave.\n\nThe severity of this measure led to gross abuses and defeated its purpose; the number of abolitionists increased, the operations of the Underground Railroad became more efficient, and new personal liberty laws were enacted in Vermont (1850), Connecticut (1854), Rhode Island (1854), Massachusetts (1855), Michigan (1855), Maine (1855 and 1857), Kansas (1858) and Wisconsin (1858). The personal liberty laws forbade justices and judges to take cognizance of claims, extended the Habeas corpus act and the privilege of jury trial to fugitives, and punished false testimony severely. In 1854, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin went so far as to declare the Fugitive Slave Law unconstitutional.\n\nThese state laws were one of the grievances that South Carolina would later use to justify its secession from the Union. Attempts to carry into effect the law of 1850 aroused much bitterness. The arrests of Thomas Sims and of Shadrach Minkins in Boston in 1851; of Jerry M. Henry, in Syracuse, New York, in the same year; of Anthony Burns in 1854, in Boston; and of the two Garner families in 1856, in Cincinnati, with other cases arising under the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, probably had as much to do with bringing on the Civil War as did the controversy over slavery in the Territories.\n\nWith the beginning of the Civil War, the legal status of the slave was changed by his masters being in arms. Benjamin Franklin Butler, in May 1861, declared black slaves are contraband of war. The Confiscation Act of 1861 was passed in August 1861, and discharged from service or labor any slave employed in aiding or promoting any insurrection against the government of the United States.\n\nBy the congressional Act Prohibiting the Return of Slaves of March 13, 1862, any slave of a disloyal master who was in territory occupied by Northern troops was declared \"ipso facto\" free. But for some time the Fugitive Slave Law was considered still to hold in the case of fugitives from masters in the border states who were loyal to the Union government, and it was not until June 28, 1864, that the Act of 1850 was fully repealed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25901679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25901679", "title": "Gabon–São Tomé and Príncipe Maritime Border Agreement", "text": "Gabon–São Tomé and Príncipe Maritime Border Agreement\n\nThe Gabon – São Tomé and Príncipe Maritime Border Agreement is a 2001 treaty between Gabon and São Tomé and Príncipe which delimits the maritime boundary between the two countries.\n\nThe agreement was signed in São Tomé on 26 April 2001. The boundary set out by the text of the treaty is a relatively straight north–south line and is explicitly defined as an equidistant line between the islands of São Tomé and Príncipe and mainland Gabon. The boundary consists of five straight-line maritime segments defined by six individual coordinate points. The theoretical tripoint in the north—with Equatorial Guinea—and the theoretical tripoint in the south—with Cameroon—have not yet been established between the involved states.\n\nThe treaty is not yet in force because it has not yet been ratified by both countries. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement on the Delimitation of the Maritime Border between the Gabonese Republic and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43134125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43134125", "title": "Gareth Peirce", "text": "Gareth Peirce\n\nGareth Peirce (born March 1940), is an English solicitor and human rights activist. She is best known for her work and advocacy in high-profile cases involving allegations of human rights injustices. Her work with Gerry Conlon and the Guildford Four – wrongly convicted of bombings carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army – was chronicled in the film \"In the Name of the Father\" (1993), in which she was portrayed by Emma Thompson. \n\nPeirce was born Jean Webb in March 1940 in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, the daughter of Margaret (née Twidell) and John Le Plastrier Webb. She changed her name from Jean to \"Gareth\" during her formative years. She was educated at the Cheltenham Ladies' College, the University of Oxford and the London School of Economics.\n\nIn the 1960s, she worked as a journalist in the United States, following the campaign of Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. Married, she returned to Britain in 1970 with her husband and elder son and undertook her postgraduate law degree at the London School of Economics. Her younger son was born in London after her permanent return to England.\n\nIn 1974, she joined the law firm of solicitor Benedict Birnberg as a trainee, being admitted to the Roll of Solicitors on 15 December 1978. Following Birnberg's retirement in 1999, she continued to work as a senior partner of Birnberg Peirce and Partners. \n\nIn the mid-1970s, she supported specific campaigns for legal reforms of police procedures that permitted the prosecution and conviction of persons based solely on identification evidence. Individual cases then very much in the news led to the establishment of Justice Against the Identification Laws (JAIL), an organisation which Gareth Peirce supports.\n\nDuring her career she represented Judith Ward, a woman wrongfully convicted in 1974 of several IRA-related bombings, the Guildford Four, the Birmingham Six, several mineworkers after the Battle of Orgreave, the family of Jean Charles de Menezes and Moazzam Begg, a man held in extrajudicial detention by the American government.\n\nJulian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, appointed Peirce as his solicitor in \"Swedish Judicial Authority v Julian Assange\".\n\nOf her defence of Muslim suspects accused of terrorism, Peirce has said:We have lost our way in this country. We have entered a new dark age of injustice and it is frightening that we are overwhelmed by it. I know I am representing innocent people; innocent people who know that a jury they face will inevitably be predisposed to find them guilty.\n\nHer role in the defence of the Guildford Four was dramatised in the 1993 film, \"In the Name of the Father\", with Peirce portrayed by Emma Thompson. Peirce has reportedly never watched the film, and stated in 1995 that she was \"an extremely unimportant participant in the story\" but was \"given a seemingly important status\". She was appointed CBE in 1999 for services to justice, but later wrote to Downing Street asking for it to be withdrawn and tendering an apology for any misunderstanding.\n\nSir Ludovic Kennedy, a campaigner against miscarriages of justice, dedicated a book to Peirce, calling her \"the doyenne of British defence lawyers\" who \"refuses to be defeated in any case no matter how unfavourable it looks\". Benedict Birnberg, who first employed her as a solicitor, believes she has \"transformed the criminal justice scene in this country almost single-handedly\".\n\nPeirce was one of the initial eight individuals inducted in March 2007 into \"Justice Denied\" magazine's Hall of Honor for her lifetime achievement in aiding the wrongly convicted.\n\nIn 2015 she was awarded the Presidential Distinguished Service Award by Michael D. Higgins, the President of Ireland.\n\nPeirce has been described as a very private person who shuns the limelight and refuses media interviews. She lives in Kentish Town, North London, with her husband, Mellen Chamberlain \"Bill\" Peirce, a writer and photographer, son of the American painter Waldo Peirce. They have two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "58952848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58952848", "title": "Hans Peter Bull", "text": "Hans Peter Bull\n\nHans Peter Bull (born 17 October 1936) is a German and jurist. He served between 1978-1985 as West Germany's first Federal Commissioner for Data Protection. It was widely believed that he was appointed at the eleventh hour only after the anticipated appointee, Spiros Simitis, had turned the job down because previously agreed levels of resourcing were dramatically cut at the last minute. Bull took on the job in an atmosphere of continuing scepticism over the levels of government commitment to data protection and Information Technology legislation more generally.\nBull was born at Lübben (Spreewald), a small town in the marshy countryside to the south of Berlin. Hans-Joachim Bull (1906–1977), his father, was a lawyer and a judge whom Bull has described (in print) as \"a self-confident choleric man with rigid principles, most of which dated back to the days of the kaiser...\". The family - Hans Peter Bull, his two year old sister, the parents and his grandmother - fled Lübben on 19 April 1945 as the Red army advanced from the east. Under Soviet Military Administration they were obliged to return to their point of departure, but two years later they made a successful escape attempt, now exchanging life in the Soviet occupation zone for the British occupation zone. By 1947 they had ended up in Hamburg which is where Bull attended secondary school. After successfully completing his school career he had difficulty deciding whether he should pursue a career in journalism or in the law. In the end he opted for the law, although he continued to be actively involved in journalism as well. Between 1956 and 1960 he studied Jurisprudence at Hamburg, Marburg and at the Free University of Berlin. He also spent some time as an intern with Die Zeit, a weekly national newspaper published in Hamburg. He received his doctorate of law in 1963 for a piece of work concerned with \"Verwaltung durch Maschinen. Rechtsprobleme der Technisierung der Verwaltung\" (\"Administration using machines. Legal problems with the mechanisation of administration\"). Data protection challenges obsessed him long before the subject became mainstream. In 1966 he passed his level 2 national law exams, which in principle opened the way to a career as a lawyer. Then, in 1972, Bull received his habilitation, a higher level academic qualification generally seen as a necessary prerequisite for a lifetime career as a university academic in Germany.\n\nBull joined the Social Democratic Party (\"Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands\" / SPD) in 1967. That was the year in which he took over as chairman of the Regional Arbitration Commission (\"Landesschiedskommission\") in Hamburg. He worked between 1973 and 1978 as a professor in Public Law at the University of Hamburg. Then, in 1978, he was offered and accepted a position as West Germany's first Federal Commissioner for Data Protection. Many of the concerns underlying the appointment were little understood by the political establishment, and during the next seven years Hans Peter Bull, whose own views were already thought through, did much to shape a role which over the next years provided a template for other European countries needing to find way to address abusive use of computer databases. Between 1983 and 1988 he resumed his work as professor in Public Law at Hamburg. Then, in 1988, he was appointed in the SPD regional government pf Schleswig-Holstein, a position he retained till resigning at the start of 1995. He then returned again to his academic role at the university, from which he retired in 2002. \n\nHe served between 1997 and 2003 as a deputy chairman of the SPD's National Arbitration Copmmission (\"Bundesschiedskommission\"). He is also a member of the Hamburg based \n\nIn comparison with subsequent generations of Data Protection commisioners and officers, Bull's approach can be seen as relatively moderate, which may reflect his own later seven year stint as an Interior Minister. He does not see Data Protection as a goal for its own sake, but rather as a counterweight and corrective against improper processing and use of data. He rejects what he would see as a more extensive data protection regime advocated by Spiros Simitis, and , which he characterises as paternalism and infantilising of the citizenry. Bull stands instead for the status of the individual as a socially engaged being and stresses the need for a \"socially adequate\" information flow.\n"}
{"id": "40906934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40906934", "title": "High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation", "text": "High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation\n\nHigh-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation is a 2010 United States Department of Justice (DOJ) antitrust action and a 2013 civil class action against several Silicon Valley companies for alleged \"no cold call\" agreements which restrained the recruitment of high-tech employees.\n\nThe defendants are Adobe, Apple Inc., Google, Intel, Intuit, Pixar, Lucasfilm and eBay, all high-technology companies with a principal place of business in the San Francisco–Silicon Valley area of California.\n\nThe civil class action was filed by five plaintiffs, one of whom has died; it accused the tech companies of collusion between 2005 and 2009 to refrain from recruiting each other's employees.\n\nCold calling is one of the main methods used by companies in the high-technology sector to recruit employees with advanced and specialised skills, such as software and hardware engineers, programmers, animators, digital artists, Web developers and other technical professionals. Cold calling involves communicating directly in any manner with another firm's employee who has not otherwise applied for a job opening. Cold calling may be done in person, by phone, letter, or email. According to the legal brief filed by a plaintiff in one of the class-action cases, cold calling is an effective method of recruiting for the high-technology sector because \"employees of other [high-technology] companies are often unresponsive to other recruiting strategies... [and] current satisfied employees tend to be more qualified, harder working, and more stable than those who are actively looking for employment.\"\n\nAmy Lambert, Google’s associate general counsel, noted in a blog post shortly after the DOJ's actions, that Google's definition of cold calling does not necessarily eliminate recruiting by letter or email, but only the process of calling on the telephone. By implication, recruiting through LinkedIn incurs recruiting by \"InMail\" - LinkedIn's own mail contact system:\n\"In order to maintain a good working relationship with these companies, in 2005 we decided not to \"cold call\" employees at a few of our partner companies. Our policy only impacted cold calling, and we continued to recruit from these companies through LinkedIn, job fairs, employee referrals, or when candidates approached Google directly. In fact, we hired hundreds of employees from the companies involved during this time period.\"\n\nThe challenged \"no cold call\" agreements are alleged bilateral agreements between high technology companies not to cold call each other's employees. The DOJ alleges that senior executives at each company negotiated to have their employees added to 'no call' lists maintained by human resources personnel or in company hiring manuals. The alleged agreements were not limited by geography, job function, product group, or time period. The alleged bilateral agreements were between: (1) Apple and Google, (2) Apple and Adobe, (3) Apple and Pixar, (4) Google and Intel, (5) Google and Intuit, and (6) Lucasfilm and Pixar.\n\nThe civil class action further alleges that agreements also existed to (1) \"provide notification when making an offer to another [company]'s employee (without the knowledge or consent of the employee)\" and (2) \"agreements that, when offering a position to another company's employee, neither company would counteroffer above the initial offer.\"\n\nOn September 24, 2010, the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division filed a complaint in the US District Court for the District of Columbia alleging violations of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. In \"US v. Adobe Systems Inc., et al.\", the Department of Justice alleged that Adobe, Apple, Google, Intel, Intuit, and Pixar had violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by entering into a series of bilateral \"No Cold Call\" Agreements to prevent the recruitment of their employees (a similar but separate suit was filed against Lucasfilm on December 21, 2010). The DOJ alleged in their Complaint that the companies had reached \"facially anticompetitive\" agreements that \"eliminated a significant form of competition...to the detriment of the affected employees who were likely deprived of competitively important information and access to better job opportunities.\" The DOJ also alleged that the agreements \"were not ancillary to any legitimate collaboration,\" \"were much broader than reasonably necessary for the formation or implementation of any collaborative effort,\" and \"disrupted the normal price-setting mechanisms that apply in the labor setting.\" The same day it filed the suit, the DOJ and the defendants proposed a settlement.\n\nA final judgment enforcing the settlement was entered by the court on March 17, 2011. Although the DOJ Complaint only challenged the alleged \"no cold call\" agreements, in the settlement, the companies agreed to a more broad prohibition against \"attempting to enter into, entering into, maintaining or enforcing any agreement with any other person to in any way refrain from, requesting that any person in any way refrain from, or pressuring any person in any way to refrain from soliciting, cold calling, recruiting, or otherwise competing for employees of the other person\", for a period of five years; the court can grant an extension. The settlement agreement does not provide any compensation for company employees affected by the alleged agreements. Lucasfilm entered into a similar settlement agreement in December 2010.\n\n\"In re: High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation\" (U.S. District Court, Northern District of California 11-cv-2509 ) is a class-action lawsuit on behalf of over 64,000 employees of Adobe, Apple Inc., Google, Intel, Intuit, Pixar and Lucasfilm (the last two are subsidiaries of Disney) against their employer alleging that their wages were repressed due to alleged agreements between their employers not to hire employees from their competitors. The case was filed on May 4, 2011 by a former software engineer at Lucasfilm and alleges violations of California’s antitrust statute, Business and Professions Code sections 16720 et seq. (the \"Cartwright Act\"); Business and Professions Code section 16600; and California’s unfair competition law, Business and Professions Code sections 17200, et seq. Focusing on the network of connections around former Apple CEO Steve Jobs, the Complaint alleges \"an interconnected web of express agreements, each with the active involvement and participation of a company under the control of Steve Jobs...and/or a company that shared at least one member of .\" The alleged intent of this conspiracy was \"to reduce employee compensation and mobility through eliminating competition for skilled labor.\"\n\nOn October 24, 2013 the United States District Court for the Northern District of California granted class certification for all employees of Defendant companies from January 1, 2005 through January 1, 2010.\n\nAs of October 31, 2013, Intuit, Pixar and Lucasfilm have reached a tentative settlement agreement. Pixar and Lucasfilm agreed to pay $9 million in damages, and Intuit agreed to pay $11 million in damages. In May 2014, Judge Lucy Koh approved the $20 million settlement between Lucasfilm, Pixar, and Intuit and their employees. Class members in this settlement, which involved fewer than 8% of the 65,000 employees affected, will receive around $3,840 each.\n\nThe trial of the class action for the remaining Defendant companies was scheduled to begin on May 27, 2014. The plaintiffs intended to ask the jury for $3 billion in compensation, a number which could in turn have tripled to $9 billion under antitrust law. However, in late April 2014, the four remaining defendants, Apple Inc, Google, Intel and Adobe Systems, agreed to settle out of court. Any settlement must be approved by Judge Lucy Koh.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Apple, Google, Intel, Adobe agreed to settle for $324.5 million. Lawyers sought 25% in attorneys’ fees, plus expenses of as much as $1.2 million, according to the filing. Additional award payments of $80,000 would be sought for each named plaintiff who served as a class representative. Payouts will average a few thousand dollars based on the salary of the employee at the time of the complaint.\n\nIn June 2014, Judge Lucy Koh expressed concern that the settlement may not be a good one for the plaintiffs. Michael Devine, one of the plaintiffs, said the settlement is unjust. In a letter he wrote to the judge he said the settlement represents only one-tenth of the $3 billion in compensation the 64,000 workers could have made if the defendants had not colluded.\n\nOn August 8, 2014, Judge Koh rejected the settlement as insufficient on the basis of the evidence and exposure. Rejecting a settlement is unusual in such cases. This left the defendants with a choice between raising their settlement offer or facing a trial.\n\nOn September 8, 2014, Judge Koh set April 9, 2015 as the actual trial date for the remaining defendants, with a pre-trial conference scheduled for December 19, 2014. Also, as of early September 2014, the defendants had re-entered mediation to determine whether a new settlement could be reached.\n\nA final approval hearing was held on July 9, 2015. On Wednesday September 2, 2015, Judge Lucy H. Koh signed an order granting Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement. The settlement website stated that Adobe, Apple, Google, and Intel has reached a settlement of $415 million and other companies settled for $20 million.\n\nAccording to the settlement website, Gilardi & Co., LLC distributed the settlement to class members the week of December 21, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25743141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25743141", "title": "Intervention (international law)", "text": "Intervention (international law)\n\nIntervention, in terms of international law, is the term for the use of force by one country or sovereign state in the internal or external affairs of another. In most cases, intervention is considered to be an unlawful act but some interventions may be considered lawful.\n\nL. F. L. Oppenheim defines intervention as a forcible or dictorial interference by a State in the affairs of another State calculated to impose certain conduct or consequences on that other State.\n\nWhen a State interferes in the political affairs of another State by invitation, or on request, it can not be considered as an unlawful act. Interference of a State can never be unlawful if it is for the sake of humanity. It is necessary that the two States agree on the matter of intervention through a treaty. A request for assistance is not an unlawful act.\n\nIntervention can be done by various means, e.g. military, subversive, economic, or diplomatic.\n"}
{"id": "36030901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36030901", "title": "Ivorian constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "Ivorian constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA referendum on the new constitution of France was held in Ivory Coast on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum held across the French Union. The new constitution would see the country become part of the new French Community if accepted, or result in independence if rejected. It was approved by 99.99% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "42153875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42153875", "title": "Jorgensen v News Media (Auckland) Ltd", "text": "Jorgensen v News Media (Auckland) Ltd\n\nJorgensen v News Media (Auckland) Ltd [1969] NZLR 961 is a New Zealand defamation case, where the plaintiff Ronald Jorgensen whom despite being convicted for murder involving one of New Zealand's most notorious killings, the Bassett Road machine gun murders, found that the defendant's newspaper referring to him to being involved in the murders was defamative to him.\n\nIn December 1963, Fred Walker and Kevin Speight were murdered in their house on Baset Road, Remuera, Auckland. The weapon used was a .45 cal sub machine gun. In 1964, Ronald Jorgensen and John Gillies were both subsequently convicted of their murders.\n\nThe Sunday News newspaper, owned by News Media (Auckland) Limited, subsequently ran an article linking Jorgensen to the murders.\n\nIn a somewhat surprising move, Jorgensen claimed (despite his subsequent conviction for the murders) he was not involved with the murders, and sued the newspaper for $2,000 for defamation. During the initial defamation trial, the newspaper naturally tried to enter the defendants certificate of conviction for murder as evidence of justification.\n\nHowever, following Hollington v Hewthorn & Co Ltd [1943] 2 All ER 35, the fact of a criminal conviction, could not be later used as evidence in a civil trial on the basis it was an opinion only.\n\nJorgensen subsequently challenged the certificate of conviction being introduced as evidence in the civil trial.\n\nThe Court of Appeal of New Zealand refused to follow Hollington v Hewthorn and allowed the conviction to be used as evidence in the trial.\n"}
{"id": "697388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697388", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Corps", "text": "Judge Advocate General's Corps\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's Corps (JAG Corps) is the branch or specialty of a military concerned with military justice and military law. Officers serving in a JAG Corps are typically called \"judge advocates\". Only the chief attorney within each branch is referred to as the \"Judge Advocate General\"; however, individual JAG Corps officers are colloquially known as JAGs.\n\nJudge Advocates serve primarily as legal advisors to the command to which they are assigned. In this function, they can also serve as the personal legal advisor to their commander. Their advice may cover a wide range of issues dealing with administrative law, government contracting, civilian and military personnel law, law of war and international relations, environmental law, etc. They also serve as prosecutors for the military when conducting courts-martial. In the United States military, they are charged with both the defense and prosecution of military law as provided in the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Highly experienced officers of the JAG Corps often serve as military judges in courts-martial and courts of inquiry.\n\n\nThe Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), is the primary legal code through which all internal military justice matters of the United States are governed. The UCMJ applies to all members of the Military of the United States, including military retirees as well as members of other federal uniformed services (such as NOAA Corps and the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps) when attached to the military. The UCMJ was created by an act of the United States Congress in 1951 in order to establish relatively consistent systems of military justice in all branches of the nation's armed forces. However, in cases involving very minor disciplinary infractions, each service has somewhat differing procedures. Such cases are governed by UCMJ Article 15 and are called non-judicial punishment, Captain's Mast (Navy), or Office Hours (Marines).\n\nIn addition to the Uniform Code of Military Justice, personnel are subject to the terms of the Constitution, other federal laws, and individual state laws where applicable (e.g., whenever the service member is in the United States, unless on a military base with exclusive federal jurisdiction). When a violation of the UCMJ occurs, the matter is handled by the command of the servicemember. When a violation of a federal or state law occurs, the matter may be handled by local, state, or federal authorities.\n\nThe forum through which criminal cases are tried in the United States' armed forces is the court-martial. This term also applies to the panel of military officers selected to serve as the finders of fact or \"jury\". In other words, they fulfil the role of a civilian jury in trying criminal cases. The Uniform Code of Military Justice outlines three distinct types of courts-martial.\n\n\n\n\nThe Uniform Code of Military Justice provides for several tiers of appeal. All cases are reviewed by the commander convening the court (the convening authority) who, as a matter of command prerogative, may approve, disapprove, or modify the findings and/or sentence. The commander may not approve a finding of guilty for an offense of which the accused was acquitted nor increase the sentence adjudged. A convicted service member may submit a request for leniency to the convening authority prior to the convening authority's approval of the court-martial sentence.\n\nEach military service has a Court of Criminal Appeals, which is composed of panels of three appellate military judges:\nThese courts review all cases in which the approved sentence includes death, a punitive discharge, or confinement for at least a year, and all cases referred to it by the service Judge Advocate General. The court of criminal appeals \"may affirm only such findings of guilty and the sentence or such part of the sentence, as it finds correct in law and fact and determines, on the basis of the entire record, should be approved. In considering the record, it may weigh the evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and determine controverted questions of fact, recognizing that the trial court saw and heard the witnesses\". Article 66(c), UCMJ.\n\nThe Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (CAAF) consists of five civilian judges appointed by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate, to 15-year terms. The CAAF must review cases from all of the military services in which the court of criminal appeals has affirmed a death sentence, cases the Judge Advocates General order sent to the court, and cases appealed from the court of criminal appeals by the accused in which the CAAF finds good cause to grant the petition for review. Unlike the service courts of criminal appeals, the CAAF \"shall take action only with respect to matters of law\". Article 67(c), UCMJ. Decisions of the CAAF are \"subject to review by the Supreme Court by writ of certiorari. Article 67a, UCMJ; this merely confirms Article III, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, granting the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction in all U.S. cases where it does not have original jurisdiction.\n\nCases not meeting the criteria for review by the service courts of criminal appeals are reviewed in the office of the service Judge Advocate General. Article 69, UCMJ. A death sentence \"may not be executed until approved by the President. In such a case, the President may commute, remit, or suspend the sentence, or any part thereof, as he sees fit. That part of the sentence providing for death may not be suspended\". Article 71(a), UCMJ.\n\nBesides prosecuting, defending, and presiding over courts-martial, military attorneys advise commanders on issues involving a number of areas of law. Depending on the service, these areas may include the law of war, the rules of engagement and their interpretation, and other operational law issues, government contract law, administrative law, labor law, environmental law, international law, claims against the government (such as under the Federal Tort Claims Act), and information law (such as requests for information in the possession of the military under the Freedom of Information Act). Military attorneys also advise individual service members, military retirees, and their families regarding personal civil legal problems they may have, including drafting wills, fending off creditors, and reviewing leases.\n\nIn addition to being licensed attorneys in any state or territory of the United States, all military attorneys undergo specialized training to qualify as judge advocates, allowing them to act as trial or defense counsel at military courts-martial. Specialized training takes place at one of three military law centers:\n\nMost Judge Advocates will take additional classes at more than one of these facilities during their time in the JAG Corps.\n\nNaval Justice School is the primary training center for Navy, Marine and Coast Guard JAs.\n\nThe Army's JAG School is the only military law center that has full American Bar Association accreditation. Its graduate course, leading to a Master of Laws degree, is open to Judge Advocates from all service branches.\n\nUpon completion of their legal training at the Army's JAG School, graduates attend six weeks of Direct Commissioned Office's training at Fort Benning, Georgia. This course emphasizes infantry officer leaderships skills and combat training.\n\n\n\nUnited States\n\nUnited States\n"}
{"id": "7626773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7626773", "title": "Law of Louisiana", "text": "Law of Louisiana\n\nLaw in the state of Louisiana is based on a more diverse set of sources than the laws of the other forty-nine states of the United States. Private law—that is, substantive law between private sector parties, principally contracts and torts—has a civil law character, based on French and Spanish codes and ultimately Roman law, with some common law influences. Louisiana's criminal law largely rests on American common law. Louisiana's administrative law is generally similar to the administrative law of the U.S. federal government and other U.S. states. Louisiana's procedural law is generally in line with that of other U.S. states, which in turn is generally based on the U.S. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n\nThe \"Louisiana Revised Statutes\" (R.S.) contain a very significant amount of legislation, arranged in titles or codes. Apart from this, the \"Louisiana Civil Code\" forms the core of private law, the \"Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure\" (C.C.P.) governs civil procedure, the \"Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure\" (C.Cr.P.) governs criminal procedure, the \"Louisiana Code of Evidence\" governs the law of evidence, and the \"Louisiana Children's Code\" (Ch.C.) governs family law and juvenile adjudication.\n\nThe \"Louisiana Administrative Code\" (LAC) contains the compilation of rules and regulations (delegated legislation) adopted by state agencies. The \"Louisiana Register\" is the official journal of regulations and legal notices issued by the executive branch.\n\nSince 1972, there is no longer an official case reporter and courts themselves decide which decisions are published. Decisions of the Louisiana Supreme Court and Louisiana Court of Appeal are available in paper and via the Internet, while trial court decisions are not published. The Code of Civil Procedure provides for the posting of unpublished opinions of the Supreme Court and the courts of appeal on the Internet and provides that such opinions may be cited as authority. Slip opinions are available from the courts, while advance sheets and bound volumes of the case reports are contained in the \"Louisiana Cases\" (a Louisiana-specific version of the \"Southern Reporter\").\n\nThe \"Louisiana Revised Statutes\" provide that the maximum penalty for the violation of a parish ordinance is a fine of $500 and imprisonment for 30 days in the parish jail, and that the maximum penalty for the violation of an ordinance of a municipality organized under the mayor and board of aldermen form of government is a fine of $500 and imprisonment for 60 days. A number of subjects are regulated, restricted, and preempted by state law as the subject of local ordinances.\n\nIn 1664 under the royal charter creating the French East India Company, the Custom of Paris became the primary law in New France, supplemented with royal ordinances, e.g. the \"Code Louis\", consisting of the 1667 ordinance on civil procedure and 1670 ordinance on criminal procedure; the 1673 \"Code Savary\" on trade; and the 1685 \"Code noir\" on slavery. After the 1763 Spanish cession, however, this law was supplanted by the Spanish law contained in three primary texts: \"Nueva Recopilación de Castilla\", \"Recopilación de las Indias\", and the \"Siete Partidas\". Commercial law was governed by the Ordinances of Bilbao. Other laws included: \"Leyes de Toro\" (1505), \"Fuero de Real\", and the \"Fuero Juzgo\".\n\nThe first Louisiana Civil Code Digest of 1808 was written in French by attorneys James Brown, Louis Moreau-Lislet, and Edward Livingston and subsequently translated into English. The main drafter Louis Moreau-Lislet was a French colonial who originally hailed from Saint-Domingue (modern Haiti) but obtained his law degree in Paris just before the French Revolution of 1789. Enacted on March 31, 1808, the Digest proved problematic when in 1817 the Louisiana Supreme Court, composed of Pierre Derbigny, George Mathews (Chief Justice), and François-Xavier Martin, found that the Spanish law in force prior to the Digest's enactment had not been repealed and was therefore still in effect insofar as it did not contradict the Digest. This provoked a legislative response by the General Assembly who tasked Justice Derbigny and attorneys Moreau-Lislet and Livingston with drafting a new, fuller code written in French and English and which formally repealed prior existing law. This code, the Civil Code of 1825, was enacted on April 12, 1824.\n\nFor many years legal practitioners in the state made great effort to ensure that both versions agreed. Despite those efforts some clauses were found only in one version or the other. Due to modern legislative enactments which repeal and reenact Louisiana's civil code articles as any other collection of statutes, the differences between the original French and the English translation are now primarily of historical interest.\n\nDespite popular belief that the Louisiana Civil Code derives from the Napoleonic Code, the similarities are because both stem from common sources, namely the 1800 Draft of the Napoleonic Code. The Napoleonic Code was not enacted in France until 1804, one year after the Louisiana Purchase. Historians in 1941 and 1965 discovered original notes of the 1808 Digest drafters who stated their goal was to base Louisiana law on Spanish law and who make no mention of the Napoleonic Code. The 1825 Code, however, which had the express purpose of repealing earlier Spanish law, elevated French law as the main source of Louisiana jurisprudence. Currently, the Louisiana Civil Code consists of 3,556 individual code articles.\n\nGreat differences exist between Louisianan civil law and common law found in all other American states. While many differences have been bridged due to the strong influence of common law, the \"civilian\" tradition is still deeply rooted in Louisiana private law and in some parts of criminal law.\n\nOne often-cited distinction is that while common law courts are bound by \"stare decisis\" and tend to rule based on precedents, judges in Louisiana rule based on their own interpretation of the law. This distinction is not absolute, though. Civil law has its own respect for established precedent, the doctrine of \"jurisprudence constante\". But the Louisiana Supreme Court notes the principal difference between the two legal doctrines: a single court decision can provide sufficient foundation for \"stare decisis\", however, \"a\nseries of adjudicated cases, all in accord, form the basis for \"jurisprudence constante\".\" Moreover, Louisiana Courts of Appeals have explicitly noted that \"jurisprudence constante\" is merely a secondary source of law, which cannot be authoritative and does not rise to the level of \"stare decisis.\" \n\nProperty, contractual, business entities structure, much of civil procedure, and family law are still strongly influenced by traditional Roman legal thinking. Louisiana law retains terms and concepts unique in American law: usufruct, forced heirship, redhibition, and lesion beyond moiety are a few examples.\n\nDue to the civil law tradition, Louisiana's constitution does not contain a right to a trial by jury in civil cases, although this right is contained in the Louisiana Revised Statutes. Additionally, appellate courts have a much broader discretion to review findings of fact by juries in civil cases. Also, damages are apportioned differently from in common law jurisdictions; specific performance is almost always available, and juries may hear cases that would be considered equitable in other jurisdictions.\n\nIn commercial law, the 49 other states have completely adopted the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), thereby standardizing the rules of commercial transactions. Louisiana enacted most provisions of the UCC, except for Articles 2 and 2A, which are inconsistent with civil law traditions governing the sale and lease of goods. However, several articles regarding the incorporation of terms into a contract have been adopted into the Civil Code. Louisiana also refers to the major subdivisions of the UCC as \"chapters\" instead of articles, since the term \"articles\" is used in that state to refer to provisions of the Louisiana Civil Code.\n\nLegal careers are also molded by the differences. Legal education, the bar exam, and standards of legal practice in Louisiana are significantly different from other states. For example, the Louisiana Bar Exam is the longest of any state, at 21.5 hours. The Multistate Bar Examination is not administered in Louisiana.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35525177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35525177", "title": "Legal Positivism (book)", "text": "Legal Positivism (book)\n\nLegal Positivism (Il Positivismo Giuridico) is a book by the Italian jurist Norberto Bobbio about one of the ontological elements of \"foundations of law\" — the \"jusphilosophical school\" called \"juspositivism\" or \"legal positivism\".\n\nSeen by scholars as an important work in understanding of a conceptual constructivist approach of the scientific way of thinking law in the new era of the jurisprudence of values, Bobbio's book faces this challenge in eleven chapters.\n\nIntroduction: natural law and positive law in thinking along the history\n\nIntroduction: the main points of the juspositivism doctrine\n\n\"The legal positivism considers only what is put by the State. Its basic thesis is that the law is product of human action and desire and no more of the divine natural or rational as affirmed formerly by the jusnaturalism. Various authors also defend that there isn't necessarily a relation between law, moral and justice, because notions of justice and moral are time and space dependent and without political power to support them and impose them against who creates the juridical norms\"\n\n\"\"Legal Positivism\" of Norberto Bobbio, shows us the final and most advanced reading of the legal positivism\"\n\n\"Bobbio, about the first jusphilosophers of legal positivism, rhapsodizing a metaphor attributed to Newton, described himself as a dwarf on the shoulder of a giant, in the sense that 'If we are on the shoulder of a giant, we can see more than even the giants themselves, but if there weren't the giants, we couldn't achieve that height'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39760479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39760479", "title": "List of largest Japanese law firms", "text": "List of largest Japanese law firms\n\nThis is a list of the largest law firms in Japan by number of attorneys, including both Japanese and foreign-qualified attorneys, as of November 27, 2013, compiled by Babelstaff K.K.\n\n"}
{"id": "41677199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41677199", "title": "List of people under Five Eyes surveillance", "text": "List of people under Five Eyes surveillance\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\" (FVEY) refers to an alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. These countries are bound by the multilateral UKUSA Agreement for joint cooperation in signals intelligence, military intelligence, and human intelligence. In recent years, documents of the FVEY have shown that they are intentionally spying on one another's citizens and sharing the collected information with each other in order to circumvent restrictive domestic regulations on spying.\n\nAs the surveillance capabilities of the FVEY continue to increase to keep up to pace with technological advancements, a global surveillance system has been gradually developed to capture the communications of entire populations across national borders. The following list contains a handful of targets of the FVEY who are public figures in various fields. In order for a person to be included in the list, there must be well-documented evidence based on reliable sources, such as leaked or declassified FVEY documents or whistleblower accounts, which demonstrate that the person involved is, or was, intentionally targeted for surveillance.\n\n"}
{"id": "37019293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37019293", "title": "Massachusetts Medical Marijuana Initiative", "text": "Massachusetts Medical Marijuana Initiative\n\nThe Massachusetts Medical Marijuana Initiative, appeared as the third question on the state's 2012 ballot as an indirect initiated state statute. The measure allows cannabis to be used for medical purposes in the state. The initiative—backed by the American Civil Liberties Union, the Massachusetts Patient Advocacy Alliance, and the Committee for Compassionate Medicine—was filed with proponents turning in the required signatures to the Massachusetts Attorney General's office by the August 3, 2011 deadline. Those signatures were needed for the required ten qualified voters who submitted the original petition to put forward the full text of the law they want enacted. The initiative passed with support from 63% of state voters.\n\nThe ballot language of the measure reads as follows:\n\nThe following is information obtained from the supporting side of the ballot measure:\n\n\nThe following is information obtained from the opposing side of the ballot measure:\n\n\n\nIn May 2012, The Massachusetts Prevention Alliance filed a petition to the state supreme judicial court requesting that the wording of the ballot question be changed. According to reports, the group claimed that the wording of the measure hid key provisions of the potential state statute. For example, the group argued that a network of dispensaries would be created to comply with the law, if enacted, but that this was not shown clearly by the wording.\n\nShortly after, Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley moved to dismiss the petition. According to the Attorney General's office, the petition did not offer a valid alternative way to write the ballot question.\n\nDuring the case hearings, associate justice of the state Supreme Judicial Court Robert J. Cordy was skeptical of the ballot measure's wording, indicating he was open to a re-writing of the proposal's language, asking the Attorney General, \"If it was entitled, 'Medical use of cigarettes,' would you have a problem with that? What's your evidence there is a medical use of marijuana?\"\n\nAround June 8, 2012, the supreme judicial court ruled in favor of the opponents who filed the lawsuit, stating that the measure's language was misleading. The court ruled that Coakley rewrite the ballot language.\n\nIn a decision on July 2, 2012 Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Associate Justice Robert J. Cordy approved newly rewritten language of the measure.\n\nAccording to reports, the main part of the language that was rewritten was the \"yes\" statement reads that reads, \"A yes vote would enact the proposed law eliminating state criminal and civil penalties related to the medical use of marijuana, allowing patients meeting certain conditions to obtain marijuana produced and distributed by new state-regulated centers, or, in specific hardship cases, to grow marijuana for their own use.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13747774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13747774", "title": "Material adverse change", "text": "Material adverse change\n\nA material adverse change (also called a MAC) - also formulated as an Material adverse event or Material adverse effect (either, a MAE) - contingency is a legal provision often found in mergers and acquisitions contracts and venture financing agreements that enables the acquirer (or funder) to refuse to complete the acquisition or merger or financing with the party being acquired (often termed, the \"target\") if the target suffers such a change.\n\nThe rationale for such a clause is a means to protect the acquirer from major changes that make the target less attractive as a purchase. Large transactions often require a long period of time between actual agreement and the completion of the transaction (the \"closing\"). This time is used to obtain governmental or regulatory approvals (e.g., in the United States, Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act approval), to obtain shareholder or labor consents, and any other required third-party consents. During this period, the target continues to function pending the completion of the merger, and is subject to the normal risks of its business, the economy or acts beyond its control.\n\nEach merger agreement that contains such a clause has a different definition of what, in its particular context, constitutes a material adverse change. Often this is one of the few or some times, the only way that an acquiring party can refuse to complete a contemplated acquisition. When the acquiring party cites the occurrence of a material adverse change to refuse to complete a merger or acquisition, litigation may ensue. One notable occurrence is the planned acquisition of SLM Corporation (formerly known as Sallie Mae) by a group including Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. In the United States, much of this litigation occurs in the Delaware Court of Chancery as many large American companies are organized under Delaware law. According to the precedents of that court, an acquirer seeking to avoid completion of a transaction based upon a MAC provision bears the burden of proving that a material adverse change as defined by the parties' agreement has in fact occurred.\n\nIt is also used in “Gas Sale and Purchase Agreements” and “LNG Sale and Purchase Agreements” and usually the party suffering from the effects of Material Adverse Change can apply for contract price revision.\n\n"}
{"id": "12251172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12251172", "title": "Media Descriptor File", "text": "Media Descriptor File\n\nMedia Descriptor File (MDF) is a proprietary disc image file format developed for Alcohol 120%, an optical disc authoring program. Daemon Tools, CDemu, MagicISO, PowerDVD, and WinCDEmu can also read the MDF format. A \"disc image\" is a computer file replica of the computer files and file system of an optical disc.\n\nUnlike an ISO image, a Media Descriptor File can contain multiple layers (as used in dual-layer recording) and multiple optical disc tracks. Like the IMG file format, a Media Descriptor File is a \"raw\" image of an optical disc. The word \"raw\" implies that the copy is precise, bit-for-bit, including (where appropriate) file-system metadata.\n\nA Media Descriptor File may be accompanied by a Media Descriptor Sidecar file. This optional binary file (with file extension codice_1) contains metadata about an imaged optical disc, including a delineation of where disc layers begin and end (\"layer breaks\"), and which portions of the MDF belong in which disc layer. The MDS file also stores the location and value of the layer breach bit, a CD/DVD copy protection mechanism. The MDS file is comparable to the CloneCD Control File and cue sheet (codice_2) file formats. However, their capabilities are not identical; also the cue sheet is a text file format.\n\n"}
{"id": "2980324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2980324", "title": "Mineral Leasing Act of 1920", "text": "Mineral Leasing Act of 1920\n\nThe Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 et seq. is a United States federal law that authorizes and governs leasing of public lands for developing deposits of coal, petroleum, natural gas and other hydrocarbons, in addition to phosphates, sodium, sulfur, and potassium in the United States. Previous to the act, these materials were subject to mining claims under the General Mining Act of 1872.\n\nPrevious to the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, the General Mining Act of 1872 authorized citizens to freely prospect for minerals on public lands and allowed a discoverer to stake claims to both minerals and surrounding lands for development. This open-access policy enabled a major oil rush in the West, in 1909 prompting U.S. Geological Survey Director George Otis Smith to warn Secretary of the Interior Richard A. Ballinger that oil lands were being claimed so quickly they would be unavailable within a few months. Ballinger notified President Taft who promptly created the first American oil reserve by executive order on September 27, 1909, withdrawing of public lands in California and Wyoming from further claims, and reserving the oil for use by the United States Navy. Congress ratified the president's authority to set aside federally owned lands with the passing of the Pickett Act () in 1910. The Supreme Court further affirmed the president's constitutional power to withdraw public land from use in . Following these events, Congress enacted the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 which dictated a system of leasing and development for mining interests on federally owned lands.\n\nProvisions in the act provide a number of functions:\n\nThe Bureau of Land Management (BLM), a division of the Department of the Interior (DOI), is the principal administrator of the Mineral Leasing Act. BLM evaluates areas for potential development and awards leases based on whoever pays the highest bonus during a competitive bidding period.\n\nThe Mineral Leasing Act \"establishes qualifications for leases, sets out maximum limits on the number of acres of a particular mineral that can be held by a lessee, and prohibits alien ownership of leases except though stock ownership in a corporation.\" Conditions of a lease under the Mineral Leasing Act vary based on the type of mineral being extracted. Phosphate and potassium leases have terms and conditions subject to readjustment at the end of each 20-year period. Sodium and sulphur lessee's have the right to renew the lease terms at the end of the first 20-year period and every 10-year period after that. Coal and oil shale leases are generally for 20 year periods, while oil and natural gas leases are generally for 10 year periods.\n\nRoyalties are payments made from one party to another based on usage of an asset, often in the form of a percentage. The Mineral Leasing Act required monetary gains from the leasing of public lands to be divided three ways, except for Alaska:\n\n\nUnder the Mineral Leasing Act and later amendments, the right to produce federally owned \npetroleum (oil and natural gas) is secured for ten-year periods by competitive bidding, and goes to the party paying the highest bonus. There are three forms of payment to the government: bonus (an initial payment to the government), rental (an annual payment of $2 per acre), and royalty ( a payment of 1/8 or 12.5% of the gross value of the oil and gas produced).\n\nUnder the Mineral Leasing Act as amended and the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of 1947 as amended, coal leases are initially obtained for a 20-year period but can be terminated in 10 years if the resources are not sufficiently developed. As with petroleum, an initial bonus must be paid to the government at the time the lease is awarded. Annual rental fees for coal are $3 per acre. Royalties are 12.5% of the gross value for surface mined coal and 8% for coal produced from underground mines.\n\n"}
{"id": "898358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898358", "title": "National Taxpayers Union", "text": "National Taxpayers Union\n\nThe National Taxpayers Union (NTU) is a conservative taxpayers advocacy organization and taxpayers union in the United States, founded in 1977 by James Dale Davidson. NTU says that it is the largest and oldest grassroots taxpayer organization in the nation, with 362,000 members nationwide. It is closely affiliated with a non-profit foundation, the National Taxpayers Union Foundation (NTUF). NTUF is a non-partisan research and educational organization dedicated to showing Americans how taxes, government spending, and regulations affect them. The organization developed a method of determining how fiscally responsible members of congress are. This scale is used to determine how likely a member of congress is to vote responsibly in terms of finances. Some determining factors included are personal for instance, how many overdrawn personal checks the congressman has in a certain amount of time. While this may seem brash, the personal finance of congress members plays an important part in the grade they are assigned. Another particularly important factor in the grade is how the congress member votes on bills that the National Taxpayers Union sees fiscally important. Essentially the grade given to the politician determines how trustworthy he is in the eyes of the National Taxpayers Union. The scale is also designed to accept both the point of view of conservative house members who want to balance the budget and liberal house members who would rather invest in commonwealth.\n\nThe National Taxpayers Union has worked to enact constitutional limits on government taxes, spending and debt. The organization also played a role in Federal income tax indexing, so inflation no longer bumps taxpayers into higher brackets. It also worked for the passage of a Taxpayer Bill of Rights.\n\nThe NTU favors either a Flat Tax or the FairTax (a national sales tax with rebate) for the United States, as opposed to the current income tax system. The organization argues in favor of the line-item veto for the president. NTU generally opposes crop subsidies by the government (such as for sugar and ethanol). The organization's briefs and policy papers decry the federal estate tax and support deregulation. NTU also provides information on \"Congressional & Executive Pay/Perks\" (e.g., NTU estimates the public pensions payments for Members of Congress), and NTU has called for reforms to deny a publicly funded pension to Members of Congress convicted of a felony.\n\n\n\n\nNTU is a founding sponsor of www.ShowMeTheSpending.org, a website dedicated to online government spending transparency.\n\nA grade of \"A\" indicates the organization views the member as a strong supporter of responsible tax and spending policies. The organization gives these members of Congress the \"Taxpayers' Friend Award.\"\n\nJames Dale Davidson began the organization in 1969.\n\nIn 1977, the National Taxpayers Union Foundation was chartered to be the educational affiliate of the National Taxpayers Union in order to provide information about the benefits of lower taxes and limited government.\n\nIn 1970, Davidson hired A. Earnest Fitzgerald, a United States Air Force analyst, as the president of NTU. In 1978, Grover Norquist, was named executive director; after his departure in 1982, he was replaced by former Maryland State Senate Majority Leader George Snyder.\n\nIn 1991, The National Taxpayers Union Foundation's signature project, the \"BillTally\", was started to reveal the legislative spending agendas of Members of Congress by analyzing the costs and savings of nearly every bill that they sponsor and cosponsor. BillTally provides the public, and media, with the only comprehensive look at how individual Members of Congress want to spend your tax dollars.\n\nIn 1997, Davidson left NTU; John Berthoud was named president and served until his death in late 2007. Duane Parde was named president of the organization following the death of Berthoud.\n\nThe current President of the National Taxpayers Union is Pete Sepp. Taking over the position in 1988, Sepp has made Congressional testimonies, policy papers, initiated tax revolts and played a role in the creation of the Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment. Through appearances on Fox, CNN and CNBC as well as publications such as the Wall Street Journal and USA Today, Sepp has made a large impact over his time in the Presidency. He states, \"We here at NTU promise to fight for taxpayers, so as to ensure that all Americans are able to pursue their dreams without the heavy hand of government holding them back.\" Together with board chair Rob Solt, and executive vice-president Brandon Arnold, the operations team of the National Taxpayers Union work towards favorable legislative outcomes for America's taxpayers such as less unnecessary government spending, tax reforms and free enterprise.\n\nOn April 15, 2009 hundreds of thousands of people around the country showed up at Tea Party Protests. They were protesting the new government spending plan proposed by the Obama administration.\n\nThere was a National Taxpayers Union conference held from June 11–13 in 2009 held in Arlington, VA at the Hyatt Regency Crystal City Hotel. The convention was geared toward taxpayer activists who were working on taxpayer initiatives at a local and state level. The purpose of this conference was to keep the initiatives of the National Taxpayers Union alive and to get more of the public to understand their ideas.\n\nIn 2009 at the National Taxpayers convention, former Ohio secretary of State Ken Blackwell and former Mississippi Governor Matt Blunt were guest speakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55498138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55498138", "title": "Ned D. Heindel", "text": "Ned D. Heindel\n\nNed D. Heindel (September 4, 1937) is an American chemist. He is the Howard S. Bunn Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Chemistry at Lehigh University, where he continues to do research. Heindel also works as a medical research consultant. Heindel's research focuses on diagnostic and therapeutic drug development. He served as president of the American Chemical Society in 1994, and has twice chaired the ACS Division for the History of Chemistry.\n\nNed Duane Heindel was born on September 4, l937 in Red Lion, York County, Pennsylvania to Mr. and Mrs. Penrose H. Heindel. He earned a B.S. in chemistry from Lebanon Valley College (1959), and a Master's degree (1961) and Ph.D. (1963) from the University of Delaware, \nwhere he worked with William A. Mosher.\nHe did postdoctoral work at Princeton University in 1964 with Edward C. Taylor.\n\nAfter teaching briefly at Ohio University and Marshall University Heindel joined the faculty at Lehigh University in 1966. He became a full professor by 1973, and was named the Howard S. Bunn Distinguished Professor of Organic Chemistry in 1976. \n\nHeindel also served as a Visiting Professor of Radiation Oncology at Hahnemann University Hospital from 1971-2006, and as Director of the Center for Health Sciences at Lehigh University from 1980-1987. He helped to establish the Lehigh-Hahnemann Cooperative Medical Education Program from 1992-2017 and was involved in Lehigh's Distance Education program.\n\nHeindel became professor emeritus in 2018. He continues to do research (e.g. healing burn wounds) and works as a medical research consultant.\n\nHeindel's research focuses on diagnostic and therapeutic drug development, including the areas of cancer research, nuclear medicine, diagnostic radioactive pharmaceuticals, chemotherapeutics and tumor-associated monoclonal antibodies. He has applied for at least 20 patents, with 14 issued. \nHe has published more than 260 papers. A number of candidate pharmaceuticals from his lab have reached advanced animal trials.\n\nHeindel has shown that psoralens and coumarins can be useful as photoactivated inhibitors of epidermal growth factor. \nPhotosensitizers are used to treat epidermal proliferation, psoriasis and vitiligo. \nHeindel's lab has identified a new structural family of organic molecules which perform as light-activated anti-cancer compounds. After activation by ultraviolet light, lipophilic dipyranone (NDH2476) was found to inhibit abnormal Keratinocyte growth with an IC50 of 9 nanomolar concentration. NDH2476 acts through initial intercalation into DNA and when irradiated, “nicks” the polynucleotide and prevents subsequent unwinding. Gem di-methylation, double bond hydrogenation, or non-linear, angular geometry to the dipyranone greatly reduced or even eliminated the photo-cytotoxicity.\n\nHeindel is one of the principal investigators in Project CounterACT-Rutgers, studying antidotes to sulfur mustard gas poisoning. \nHeindel's lab has developed an indomethacin prodrug, NDH4338, designed for use as a wound-healing accelerant for vesicant-triggered skin lesions. The drug is a trifunctional pharmaceutical composed of covalently linked inhibitors of COX-2, acetylcholinesterase, and induced nitric oxide synthase which can be released in vivo from the parent molecule. It has been tested on rodents pre-exposed to chloroethyl ethyl sulfide, nitrogen mustard, and sulfur mustard and has shown a marked acceleration of wound healing. While NDH4338 has several mechanisms of action, a principle one is suppression of mast cell degranulation in skin.\n\nHydroxamate compounds developed by Heindel's lab have been found to enhance corneal wound healing after mustard exposure. Compounds studied include olvanil OH (NDH4409) and retro olvanil 8 (NDH4417). Hydroxamates reduced the activity of ADAM17 and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), and attenuated expression of EMMPRIN, a tumor cell surface inducer of MMPs. This resulted in less epithelial sloughing, improved protection of the basement membrane zone, and better epithelial-stromal integrity after injury.\n\nHeindel serves on the Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Drug Discovery Institute, and the Scientific Advisory Board of Azevan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.\n\nHeindel has held a number of positions in the American Chemical Society (ACS), since first becoming a board member in 1985.\nIn 1994, Heindel served as President of the ACS.\nIn 2009 Heindel was named an ACS Fellow.\n\nHeindel has served on the Board of Directors of the National Foundation for History of Chemistry,\nand has twice been chairperson of the ACS Division of the History of Chemistry.\nIn 1979, Heindel chaired a task force formed by the ACS to consider the creation of a national center for the history of chemistry. In December 1981 the ACS approved the establishment of the Center for the History of Chemistry in Philadelphia.\nHe was a contributor to a NOVA program about Percy Julian, “Forgotten Genius”, which aired in 2007.\n\nHeindel has written both papers and books relating history and chemistry. Among his publications he has examined \"The Professionalization of American Chemistry: How the German Ph.D. Model Crossed the Atlantic\",\nand the careers of early photochemists such as Giacomo Ciamician.\n\nAnother area of interest is the medicinal chemistry and folk-healing techniques of the Pennsylvania Dutch.\n\"The Nineteenth Century Horse Doctor: A Pennsylvania Dutchman’s Practical Guide to Treating Horses\" recognized the essential role of the horse in pre-industrial North American farming. Heindel and Robert D. Rapp translate and examine recipes in 19th century books of veterinary practice, or \"Pferdartz\", from the Moravian and the Pennsylvania Dutch traditions. Folk medicine cures ranged from herbs, minerals, poultices, and bleeding to incantations.\n\nIn \"Hexenkopf, History, Healing and Hexerei\", he examines traditions of both white and black magic in the Wilhelm and Saylor families of Bucks County, Pennsylvania. Healers such as Johann Peter Seilor and Emanuel Wilhelm used tonics, personalized prescriptions and manipulations to treat sickness and fight off evil in the tradition of white magic or \"Braucherei\". Modern pharmaceutical science has examined the use of some of their treatments such as poke root and mayapple root. Traditions of black magic have focused on Hexenkopf Rock.\n\nHeindel and his wife Linda (Heefner) Heindel are active in historical groups in the Lehigh Valley and frequently contribute to \"Pennsylvania Folklife Magazine\". \nHeindel has lectured on social relationships between Europeans, Lenni Lenape, and Shawnee in the Durham area in the 1700s. He is interested in the work of the Buckwampum Historical and Literary Society, an group that met from 1888 to 1903. Most were amateurs but archaeologist Henry Mercer was also a member. The group conducted several digs in Bucks County, Pennsylvania and Northampton County, Pennsylvania.\n\nOver a 50 year period, Ned and Linda Heindel have purchased and preserved 128 acres of \"forest, bogs and meadows\" around the stone farmhouse in which they live, in Williams Township, Northampton County, Pennsylvania. The hilly area includes stands of ash, poplar and oak trees, wild azalea, freshwater springs and Hexenkopf Rock, a ridge of exposed Precambrian stone.\nLinda Heindel serves as the secretary of the Land Preservation Board of Williams Township, Northampton County, PA.\n\nAs of August 2014, a consortium of energy companies announced plans to build the PennEast Pipeline to carry natural gas from the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania into New Jersey. Ned and Linda Heindel are among residents who would be affected.\n\nBeginning on February 6, 2018, the PennEast Pipeline Co. has filed eminent domain notices in federal court to take possession of rights of way on the lands of those who have not agreed to the pipeline. \nThose who received eminent domain notices include at least 129 New Jersey landowners and 50 Pennsylvania landowners, among them the Heindels.\nThe Heindels are active opponents of the proposed pipeline and the attempted seizure of their land under eminent domain.\n\n"}
{"id": "45677222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45677222", "title": "Neilson v A-G", "text": "Neilson v A-G\n\nNeilson v A-G [2001] 3 NZLR 433 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding suing under the Bill of Rights Act for unlawful arrest.\n\nAfter Neilson was dismissed from his job as a private investigator, he subsequently won a personal grievance in the Employment Court against his former employer.\n\nPart of the employers unsuccessful defence was that Neilson had pocketed some fees from one of their clients.\n\nEight days after losing in the Employment Court, the employer lodged a complaint with the police regarding the misappropriated money.\n\nThe police, without doing a proper investigation, and despite evidence that would suggest that no crime had occurred, a police office arrested Neilson without first obtaining an arrest warrant.\n\nLater, Neilson was discharged without conviction, and sued the police for wrongful arrest, and was awarded $10,000 in damages.\n\nThe police appealed.\n\nThe court ruled that the arrest was still illegal, but did reduce the damages award to $5,000.\n"}
{"id": "4220522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4220522", "title": "Ninon Colneric", "text": "Ninon Colneric\n\nNinon Colneric (born 1948) is a German former judge at the European Court of Justice.\n\nBorn in Oer-Erkenschwick, she studied legal science in Tübingen, Munich and Geneva. Following a period of academic research in London, she was awarded a doctorate in law by the University of Munich. She was authorised, by the University of Bremen, to teach labour law, sociology of law and social law. She was professor ad interim at the faculty of law of the universities of Frankfurt, and Bremen. She was president of the Landesarbeitsgericht Schleswig-Holstein (1989).\n\nShe was a judge at the Labour Court (\"Arbeitsgericht\") Oldenburg. \n\nShe collaborated, as an expert, on the European Expertise Service (European Union) project for the reform of the labour law of Kirghizstan (1994 to 1995). She was an honorary Professor at the University of Bremen in labour law, specifically in European labour law. Presently, she is Co-Dean at the China-EU School of Law, a cooperative project between a consortium of European universities and the China University of Political Science and Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "321206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321206", "title": "Personal bankruptcy", "text": "Personal bankruptcy\n\nPersonal bankruptcy law allows, in certain jurisdictions, an individual to be declared bankrupt. Virtually every country with a modern legal system features some form of debt relief for individuals. Personal bankruptcy is distinguished from corporate bankruptcy.\n\nThe DICE report 2006 of Munich's ifo Economic Research compared international personal bankruptcy in selected OECD-countries.\n\nIn the United States, the same chapters of the Bankruptcy Code are applied in both personal and corporate bankruptcies. Most individuals who enter bankruptcy do so under Chapter 13 (a \"reorganization\" plan) or Chapter 7 (a \"liquidation\" of debtor's assets). More rarely, personal bankruptcy proceedings are carried out under Chapter 11. The ultimate goal of personal bankruptcy, from the viewpoint of the debtor, is receiving a discharge.\n\nThe concept behind bankruptcy in Canada is that an individual assigns (surrender) everything they own to a trustee in bankruptcy in exchange for the elimination of their unsecured debts.\n\nThe rules for filing personal bankruptcy in each province and territory differ slightly. In some areas of Canada individuals may be permitted to keep (exempt) certain property. Common items for exemption include clothing, furniture, appliances, motor vehicles, medical and dental aids, a home, family heirlooms, and some insurance. In basic terms, any property the debtor might require to survive can be exempt. Personal Bankruptcy will eliminate most, if not all, of an individual’s debt, but it also impacts their future ability to obtain credit.\n\nThe cost of personal bankruptcy in Canada depends on the individual’s monthly family income, the size of the family, and their assets (such as RRSPs). An alternative to personal bankruptcy (in Canada) is a Consumer Proposal. Another option in Canada is a debt consolidation. No matter what option they choose, they can often turn to a trustee in bankruptcy for a free consultation.\n\nPersonal bankruptcy in Israel is governed by the Bankruptcy Ordinance, 1980. Debtors and their creditors may apply to the court for bankruptcy. If it is granted, an automatic stay enters into force and a trustee (frequently the Official Receiver) is appointed for the debtor's assets. The automatic stay does not bar secured creditors' lien enforcement. Bona fide debtors usually receive a discharge either immediately (if they have practically no assets) or within several months to several years from the onset of proceedings (during which time the debtor is mostly required to pay a periodic sum, set by the court, that goes towards paying the creditors). Since 1996, Israeli personal bankruptcy law has shifted to a relatively debtor-friendly regime, not unlike the American model.\n"}
{"id": "28269948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28269948", "title": "Persons Disabled in War against the Nazis Law", "text": "Persons Disabled in War against the Nazis Law\n\nThe Persons Disabled in War against the Nazis Law is an Israeli law, providing assistance to Israelis who fought in the armed forces of the allied countries or partisan units during World War II and who are disabled (physically or mentally) as a consequence of the war. Moreover, the law provides entitlements for surviving spouses of beneficiaries, for a limited period of time or until they remarry, depending on the extent of disability recognized for the original beneficiary shortly before his or her death.\n\nThe law came about after campaigning from groups of veterans of the Second World War, being passed by Knesset in 1954. However, the law does not confer World War II veterans the same benefits as veterans who has served in military service of the State of Israel. The benefits under this law are handled by the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Defense.\n"}
{"id": "271972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271972", "title": "Pinckney's Treaty", "text": "Pinckney's Treaty\n\nPinckney's Treaty, also commonly known as the Treaty of San Lorenzo or the Treaty of Madrid, was signed in San Lorenzo de El Escorial on October 27, 1795 and established intentions of friendship between the United States and Spain. It also defined the border between the United States and Spanish Florida, and guaranteed the United States navigation rights on the Mississippi River. With this agreement, the first phase of the ongoing border dispute between the two nations in this region, commonly called the West Florida Controversy, came to a close.\n\nThe treaty's full title is Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Navigation Between Spain and the United States. Thomas Pinckney negotiated the treaty for the United States and Don Manuel de Godoy represented Spain. It was presented to the United States Senate on February 26, 1796, and, after debate, was ratified on March 7, 1796. It was ratified by Spain on April 25, 1796 and ratifications were exchanged on that date. The treaty was proclaimed on August 3, 1796.\n\nIn 1763, Great Britain established two colonies—East Florida and West Florida—out of territory along the northern Gulf of Mexico coast taken from France and Spain following the French and Indian War(the Seven Years' War). From Spain the British received all of Spanish Florida, and from France received the portion of French Louisiana east of the Mississippi RiverNew Orleans plus all of French Louisiana west of the Mississippi had been secretly given to Spain the previous year. Both East and West Florida, never extensively colonized by the British, were ceded to Spain (who subsequently ruled both provinces as separate and apart from Louisiana) in the 1783 Treaty of Paris at the end of the American Revolutionary War. When this transaction was made however, the boundaries of West Florida, which had changed while under British sovereignty, were not specified.\n\nIn 1763 West Florida's northern border was initially set at the 31st parallel north, but was moved in 1764 to 32° 22′ (the junction of the Mississippi and Yazoo Rivers, and location of present-day Vicksburg, Mississippi) in order to give the West Floridians more territory, including the Natchez District and the Tombigbee District. After reacquiring the colony, Spain insisted that its West Florida claim extended fully to 32° 22′, but the U.S. asserted that the land between 31° and 32° 22′ had always been British territory, and therefore rightfully belonged to the United States.\n\nIn 1784, the Spanish closed New Orleans to American goods coming down the Mississippi River. In 1795, the border was settled, and the US and Spain concluded a trade agreement. New Orleans was reopened, and Americans could transfer goods without paying cargo fees (right of deposit) when they transferred goods from one ship to another.\n\nEstablished the southern boundary of the United States with the Spanish colonies of East Florida and West Florida as: a line beginning on the River Mississippi at the 31st parallel north (the 1763 line) drawn due east to the middle of the Chattahoochee River and, from there, downstream along the middle of the river to the junction with the Flint River and, from there, due east to the headwaters of the St. Marys River and, from there, along the middle of the channel to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nStipulated that a joint Spanish–American team would survey the boundary line.\n\nEstablished the western boundary of the United States with the Spanish colony of Louisiana, as: the middle of the Mississippi River from the northern boundary of the United States (it was unknown at the time how far north the Mississippi extended) to the 31st degree north latitude; and that both Spanish subjects and U.S. citizens would have free navigation along the full length of the Mississippi, from its source to the Ocean.\n\nThe United States and Spain agreed not to incite native tribes to warfare and to promote mutually beneficial trade relationships the tribe on both sides of the border. Previously, Spain had been supplying weapons to local tribes for many years. The agreement put the lands of the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations of American Indians within the new boundaries of the United States.\n\nSpain and the United States also agreed to protect and defend the vessels of the other party anywhere within their jurisdictions and not to detain or embargo the other's citizens or vessels.\n\nA joint Spanish–American team surveyed the boundary line. Andrew Ellicott served as the head of the U.S. contingent. The region that Spain relinquished its claim to through Pinckney's treaty was organized by Congress as Mississippi Territory on April 7, 1798. Natchez was the territory's first and only capital.\n\nGrant (1997) argues that the treaty was critical for the emergence of American expansionism (later known as \"Manifest Destiny\") because control of the Natchez and Tombigbee districts were needed for America's dominance of the Southwest. The collapse of Spanish power in the region was inevitable as Americans poured into the district, and very few Spaniards lived there. Spain gave up the area for reasons of international politics, not local unrest. Spanish rule was accepted by the French and British settlers near Natchez. Relations with the Indians were tranquil. However, with the loss of Natchez, Spain's frontier was no longer secure, and the rest of its territory was lost piecemeal.\n\nUnder the secret Third Treaty of San Ildefonso of October 1, 1800, Spanish Louisiana—comprising both the vast territory west of the Mississippi and New Orleans—was formally retroceded to France; but Spain continued to administer it. Again, as in 1783, the boundaries of the territory being exchanged were not specified. As a result, when France and the United States concluded the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, a new dispute, the second phase of the West Florida Controversy, arose.\n\nThis time, the disagreement was over whether the portion of West Florida first under British and then Spanish control since 1763 (between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers) was included in the 1801 treaty, and thus the Louisiana Purchase. The United States laid claim to the region, asserting it was. Spain held that such a claim was baseless. While the politicians squabbled, American and British settlers in the region declared an independent Republic of West Florida in 1810. Its capital was located at St. Francisville. The Republic was quickly annexed by the U.S., and incorporated into the Territory of Orleans, which joined the Union as the state of Louisiana in 1812. The present-day Louisiana civil parishes (equivalent to counties elsewhere in the U.S.) within the former republic are referred to as the \"Florida Parishes.\"\nAlso in 1812, the U.S. annexed the Mobile District of West Florida, between the Perdido and Pearl Rivers, declaring that it had been included in the Louisiana Purchase. Spain disputed this and maintained its claim over the area. The following year, a Federal statute was secretly enacted authorizing the president to take full possession of this area with the use of military force as deemed necessary. Accordingly, General James Wilkinson occupied this district with a military contingent; the Spanish colonial commandant offered no resistance. The annexed land was incorporated into the Mississippi Territory (and partitioned five years later when the Alabama Territory was established).\n\nIn 1819 the U.S. and Spain negotiated the Adams–Onís Treaty, in which Spain ceded both West Florida and East Florida in their entirety to the United States. Since the mid-19th century, the southern (east–west) boundary established by Pinckney's Treaty has formed the state line between: \nThe line is not a state line between the Pearl and Perdido Rivers so as to provide Mississippi and Alabama with access to the Gulf of Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "30799934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30799934", "title": "Political law", "text": "Political law\n\nPolitical law (or political activity law) is an established legal practice area encompassing the intersection of politics and law. Political law comprises election law, voting rights law, campaign finance law, laws governing lobbying and lobbyists, open government laws, legislative and executive branch ethics codes, legislative procedure, administrative procedure, constitutional law, and legislative and regulatory drafting. Political laws are applied primarily to government officials, candidates, advocacy groups, lobbyists, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and trade unions.\n\nAt the federal level, the Federal Election Commission enforces campaign finance law with respect to races for the United States House of Representatives, United States Senate, and the office of President of the United States. Campaigns for federal office are subject to contribution limits and certain contributions are prohibited. The Department of Justice's Public Integrity Section (PIN) has jurisdiction involving alleged criminal violations of many political laws.\n\nAt the state level, most states have administrative agencies to enforce state law with respect to campaign finance and ethics rules. The attorney general of the state may also play a role in enforcement. Some local governments also maintain ethics agencies. At the state and local level these agencies might simply provide for disclosure of campaign finance registration and reporting forms (or lobbyist registration and reporting), or they may provide an enforcement scheme.\n\n\"Pay-to-play\" restrictions are an example of political law. For instance, in the context of municipal securities dealers, rules promulgated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board effectively prohibit certain individuals from contributing to the political funds of officials of issuers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322830", "title": "Radical centrism", "text": "Radical centrism\n\nRadical centrism (also called the radical center/centre or radical middle) is a political ideology that arose in the Western nations in the late 20th century. At first it was defined in a variety of ways, but at the beginning of the 21st century a number of political science texts gave it a more developed cast.\n\nThe \"radical\" in the term refers to a willingness on the part of most radical centrists to call for fundamental reform of institutions. The \"centrism\" refers to a belief that genuine solutions require realism and pragmatism, not just idealism and emotion. One radical centrist text defines radical centrism as \"idealism without illusions\", a phrase originally from John F. Kennedy. \n\nRadical centrists typically borrow ideas from the left, the right, and elsewhere, often melding them together. Most support market-based solutions to social problems with strong governmental oversight in the public interest. There is support for increased global engagement and the growth of an empowered middle class in developing countries. Many radical centrists work within the major political parties, but also support independent or third-party initiatives and candidacies.\n\nOne common criticism of radical centrism is that its policies are only marginally different from conventional centrist policies. Another is that radical centrists' penchant for relying on newly-formed third parties is naive and self-defeating. Some observers see radical centrism as primarily a process of catalyzing dialogue and fresh thinking among polarized people and groups.\n\nSome influences on radical centrist political philosophy are not directly political. Robert C. Solomon, a philosopher with radical-centrist interests, identifies a number of philosophical concepts supporting balance, reconciliation or synthesis, including Confucius's concept of ren, Aristotle's concept of the mean, Erasmus's and Montaigne's humanism, Vico's evolutionary vision of history, William James's and John Dewey's pragmatism, and Aurobindo Ghose's integration of opposites.\n\nHowever, most commonly cited influences and precursors are from the political realm. For example, British radical-centrist politician Nick Clegg considers himself an heir to political theorist John Stuart Mill, former Liberal Prime Minister David Lloyd George, economist John Maynard Keynes, social reformer William Beveridge and former Liberal Party leader Jo Grimond. In his book \"Independent Nation\" (2004), John Avlon discusses precursors of 21st-century U.S. political centrism, including President Theodore Roosevelt, Supreme Court Justice Earl Warren, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Senator Margaret Chase Smith, and Senator Edward W. Brooke. Radical centrist writer Mark Satin points to political influences from outside the electoral arena, including communitarian thinker Amitai Etzioni, magazine publisher Charles Peters, management theorist Peter Drucker, city planning theorist Jane Jacobs and futurists Heidi and Alvin Toffler. Satin calls Benjamin Franklin the radical middle's favorite Founding Father since he was \"extraordinarily practical\", \"extraordinarily creative\" and managed to \"get the warring factions and wounded egos [at the U.S. Constitutional Convention] to transcend their differences\".\n\nAccording to journalist William Safire, the phrase \"radical middle\" was coined by Renata Adler, a staff writer for \"The New Yorker\". In the introduction to her second collection of essays, \"Toward a Radical Middle\" (1969), she presented it as a healing radicalism. Adler said it rejected the violent posturing and rhetoric of the 1960s in favor of such \"corny\" values as \"reason, decency, prosperity, human dignity [and human] contact\". She called for the \"reconciliation\" of the white working class and African-Americans.\n\nIn the 1970s, sociologist Donald I. Warren described the radical center as consisting of those \"middle American radicals\" who were suspicious of big government, the national media and academics, as well as rich people and predatory corporations. Although they might vote for Democrats or Republicans, or for populists like George Wallace, they felt politically homeless and were looking for leaders who would address their concerns.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, several authors contributed their understandings to the concept of the radical center. For example, futurist Marilyn Ferguson added a holistic dimension to the concept when she said: \"[The] Radical Center ... is not neutral, not middle-of-the-road, but a view of the whole road\". Sociologist Alan Wolfe located the creative part of the political spectrum at the center: \"The extremes of right and left know where they stand, while the center furnishes what is original and unexpected\". African-American theorist Stanley Crouch upset many political thinkers when he pronounced himself a \"radical pragmatist\". Crouch explained: \"I affirm whatever I think has the best chance of working, of being both inspirational and unsentimental, of reasoning across the categories of false division and beyond the decoy of race\".\n\nIn his influential 1995 \"Newsweek\" cover story \"Stalking the Radical Middle\", journalist Joe Klein described radical centrists as angrier and more frustrated than conventional Democrats and Republicans. Klein said they share four broad goals: getting money out of politics, balancing the budget, restoring civility and figuring out how to run government better. He also said their concerns were fueling \"what is becoming a significant intellectual movement, nothing less than an attempt to replace the traditional notions of liberalism and conservatism\".\n\nIn 1998, British sociologist Anthony Giddens claimed that the radical center is synonymous with the Third Way. For Giddens, an advisor to former British Prime Minister Tony Blair and for many other European political actors, the Third Way is a reconstituted form of social democracy.\n\nSome radical centrist thinkers do not equate radical centrism with the Third Way. In Britain, many do not see themselves as social democrats. Most prominently, British radical-centrist politician Nick Clegg has made it clear he does not consider himself an heir to Tony Blair and Richard Reeves, Clegg's longtime advisor, emphatically rejects social democracy.\n\nIn the United States, the situation is different because the term Third Way was adopted by the Democratic Leadership Council and other moderate Democrats. However, most U.S. radical centrists also avoid the term. Ted Halstead and Michael Lind's introduction to radical centrist politics fails to mention it and Lind subsequently accused the organized moderate Democrats of siding with the \"center-right\" and Wall Street. Radical centrists have expressed dismay with what they see as \"split[ting] the difference\", \"triangulation\" and other supposed practices of what some of them call the \"mushy middle\".\n\nThe first years of the 21st century saw publication of four introductions to radical centrist politics: Ted Halstead and Michael Lind's \"The Radical Center\" (2001), Matthew Miller's \"The Two Percent Solution\" (2003), John Avlon's \"Independent Nation\" (2004) and Mark Satin's \"Radical Middle\" (2004). These books attempted to take the concept of radical centrism beyond the stage of \"cautious gestures\" and journalistic observation and define it as a political philosophy.\n\nThe authors came to their task from diverse political backgrounds: Avlon had been a speechwriter for New York Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani; Miller had been a business consultant before serving in President Bill Clinton's budget office; Lind had been an exponent of Harry Truman-style \"national liberalism\"; Halstead had run a think tank called Redefining Progress; and Satin had co-drafted the U.S. Green Party's foundational political statement, \"Ten Key Values\". However, there is a generational bond: all these authors were between 31 and 41 years of age when their books were published (except for Satin, who was nearing 60).\n\nWhile the four books do not speak with one voice, among them they express assumptions, analyses, policies and strategies that helped set the parameters for radical centrism as a 21st-century political philosophy:\n\n\n\n\n\nAlong with publication of the four overviews of radical centrist politics, the first part of the 21st century saw a rise in the creation and dissemination of radical centrist policy ideas.\n\nSeveral think tanks are developing radical centrist ideas more thoroughly than was done in the overview books. Among them are Demos in Britain; the Cape York Institute for Policy and Leadership in Australia; and New America (formerly the New America Foundation) in the United States. New America was started by authors Ted Halstead and Michael Lind, as well as two others, to bring radical centrist ideas to Washington, D.C. journalists and policy researchers.\n\nA radical centrist perspective can also be found in major periodicals. In the United States, for example, \"The Washington Monthly\" was started by early radical centrist thinker Charles Peters and many large-circulation magazines publish articles by New America fellows. Columnists who write from a radical centrist perspective include John Avlon at \"The Daily Beast\", Thomas Friedman at \"The New York Times\", Joe Klein at \"Time\" magazine and Matthew Miller at \"The Washington Post\". Prominent journalists James Fallows and Fareed Zakaria have been identified as radical centrists.\n\nIn Britain, the news magazine \"The Economist\" positions itself as radical centrist. An editorial (\"leader\") in 2012 declared in bolded type: \"A new form of radical centrist politics is needed to tackle inequality without hurting economic growth\". An essay on \"The Economist\" 's website the following year, introduced by the editor, argues that the magazine had always \"com[e] ... from what we like to call the radical centre\".\n\nMany books are offering radical centrist perspectives and policy proposals on specific topics. Some examples:\n\nRadical centrists have been and continue to be engaged in a variety of political activities:\nIn Australia, Aboriginal lawyer Noel Pearson is building an explicitly radical centrist movement among Aborigines. The movement is seeking more assistance from the Australian state, but is also seeking to convince individual Aborigines to take more responsibility for their lives. To political philosopher Katherine Curchin, writing in the \"Australian Journal of Political Science\", Pearson is attempting something unusual and worthwhile: casting public debate on indigenous issues in terms of a search for a radical center. She says Pearson's methods have much in common with those of deliberative democracy.\n\nIn the late 2010s, Brazil's Marina Silva was identified by \"The Economist\" as an emerging radical-centrist leader. Formerly a member of the left-wing Workers' Party, by 2017 she had organized a new party whose watchwords included environmentalism, liberalism, and \"clean politics\". She had already served six years as Minister of the Environment, and in 2010 she was the Green Party candidate for President of Brazil, finishing third with 20% of the vote.\n\nFollowing the 2010 election, Nick Clegg, then leader of the Liberal Democrats (Britain's third-largest party at the time), had his party enter into a Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement to form a majority government. In a speech to party members in the spring of 2011, Clegg declared that he considers himself and his party to be radical centrist:\n\nFor the left, an obsession with the state. For the right, a worship of the market. But as liberals, we place our faith in people. People with power and opportunity in their hands. Our opponents try to divide us with their outdated labels of left and right. But we are not on the left and we are not on the right. We have our own label: Liberal. We are liberals and we own the freehold to the centre ground of British politics. Our politics is the politics of the radical centre.\n\nIn the autumn of 2012, Clegg's longtime policy advisor elaborated on the differences between Clegg's identity as a \"radical liberal\" and traditional social democracy.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau claimed that his Liberal Party adhered to the \"radical center\". One thing this means, Trudeau said, is that \"sometimes we have to fight against the state\". Paul Hellyerr, who served in Trudeau's first cabinet and spent over half a century in Canadian political life, said in 2010, \"I have been branded as everything from far left to far right. I put myself in the radical center – one who seeks solutions to problems based on first principles without regard to ideology. I believe that it is the kind of solution the world desperately needs at a time when niggling change or fine tuning is not good enough\".\n\nJustin Trudeau, elected Prime Minister of Canada in 2015, has been characterized as radical centrist by Stuart Trew of the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives as well as by the magazine \"CounterPunch\" Trew notes that both Justin Trudeau and his French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron, are optimists, moderate redistributionists, internationalists, feminists, and good listeners. \"Consultation, for radical centrists, is key\", Trew concludes.\n\nIn 2017, \"The Economist\" described Chile's Andres Velasco as a rising radical-centrist politician. A former finance minister in Michelle Bachelet's first government, he later unsuccessfully ran against her for the presidential nomination and then helped establish a new political party. According to \"The Economist\", Velasco and his colleagues say they support a political philosophy that is both liberal and egalitarian. Like Amartya Sen, they see freedom not just as freedom-from, but as the absence of domination and the opportunity to fulfill one's potential. Like John Rawls, they reject the far left's emphasis on state redistribution in favor of an emphasis on equal treatment for all with special vigilance against class- and race-based discrimination.\n\nSeveral observers have identified Emmanuel Macron, elected President of France in 2017, as a radical centrist. Anne Applebaum of \"The Washington Post\" says Macron \"represents the brand-new radical center\", as does his political movement, En Marche!, which Applebaum translates as \"forward\". She notes a number of politically bridging ideas Macron holds – for example, \"He embraces markets, but says he believes in 'collective solidarity'\". A professor of history, Robert Zaretsky, writing in \"Foreign Policy\", argues that Macron's radical centrism is \"the embodiment of a particularly French kind of center – the extreme center\". He points to Macron's declaration that he is \"neither left nor right\", and to his support for policies, such as public-sector austerity and major environmental investments, that traditional political parties might find contradictory.\n\nU.S. politician Dave Andersion, writing in \"The Hill\" newspaper, says that Macron's election victory points the way for those \"who wish to transcend their polarized politics of [the present] in the name of a new center, not a moderate center associated with United States and United Kingdom 'Third Way' politics but what has been described as Macron's 'radical center' point of view. … [It] transcends left and right but takes important elements of both sides\".\n\nIn an article for \"Israel Hayom\" in 2012, conservative Knesset member Tzipi Hotovely named Israeli politician Yair Lapid and his Yesh Atid (There Is a Future) party as examples of \"the radical center\" in Israel, which she warned her readers against. In 2013, Yossi Klein Halevi – author of books addressing Israelis and Palestinians alike – explained why he voted for Lapid, saying, in part:\n\nHe emerged as the voice of middle class disaffection, yet included in his [party] list two Ethiopians, representatives of one of the country's poorest constituencies. ... Yair has sought dialogue. ... Some see Yair's Israeli eclecticism as an expression of ideological immaturity, of indecisiveness. In fact it reflects his ability – alone among today's leaders – to define the Israeli center. ... These voters agree with the left about the dangers of occupation and with the right about the dangers of a delusional peace.\n\nIn 2017, Lapid and his party were surging in the polls.\n\nAccording to journalist Angelo Persichilli, Italian Christian Democratic Party leader Aldo Moro's call for \"parallel convergence\" prefigured today's calls for radical centrism. Until being killed by the Red Brigades in the late 1970s, Moro had been promoting a political alliance between Christian Democracy and the Italian Communist Party. Moro acknowledged that the two parties were so different that they ran on parallel tracks and he did not want them to lose their identities, but he emphasized that in the end their interests were convergent—hence the phrase he coined and popularized, \"parallel convergence\".\n\nAccording to the Dutch opinion magazine \"HP/De Tijd\", the Dutch political party D66 can be seen as radical centrist. Radical centrism is a possibility in another Dutch party as well. In a report presented in 2012 to the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) party, CDA member and former minister of social affairs Aart Jan de Geus recommends that the CDA develop itself into a radical centrist \"(\"radicale midden\")\" party. The D66 has been seen as the more progressive and individualistic of the two parties, and the CDA as the more conservative and personalistic / communitarian.\n\nIn Spain, Albert Rivera and his Ciudadanos (Citizens) party have been described as radical centrist by \"Politico\", as well as by Spanish-language commentators and news outlets. Rivera himself has described his movement as radical centrist, saying, \"We're the radical center. We can't beat them when it comes to populism. What Ciudadanos aspires to is radical, courageous changes backed by numbers, data, proposals, economists, technicians and capable people\". Rivera has called for politics to transcend the old labels, saying, \"We have to move away from the old left-right axis\". \"The Economist\" has likened Rivera and his party to Emmanuel Macron and his party En Marche! in France. Rivera's party has taken on the established parties of the left and right and has had some success, most notably in the 2017 Catalan regional election.\n\nSome commentators identify Ross Perot's 1992 U.S. presidential campaign as the first radical middle national campaign. However, many radical centrist authors were not enthusiastic about Perot. Matthew Miller acknowledges that Perot had enough principle to support a gasoline tax hike, Halstead and Lind note that he popularized the idea of balancing the budget and John Avlon says he crystallized popular distrust of partisan extremes. However, none of those authors examines Perot's ideas or campaigns in depth and Mark Satin does not mention Perot at all. Joe Klein mocked one of Perot's campaign gaffes and said he was not a sufficiently substantial figure. Miller characterizes Perot as a rich, self-financed lone wolf. By contrast, what most radical centrists say they want in political action terms is the building of a grounded political movement.\n\nAlso in the 1990s, political independents Jesse Ventura, Angus King and Lowell Weicker became governors of American states. According to John Avlon, they pioneered the combination of fiscal prudence and social tolerance that has served as a model for radical centrist governance ever since. They also developed a characteristic style, a combination of \"common sense and maverick appeal\".\n\nIn the decade of the 2000s, a number of governors and mayors – most prominently, California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg – were celebrated by \"Time\" magazine as \"action heroes\" who looked beyond partisanship to get things done. A similar article that decade in \"Politico\" placed \"self-styled 'radical centrist'\" governor Mark Warner of Virginia in that camp.\n\nIn the 2010s, the radical centrist movement in the U.S. is mostly being played out in the national media. In 2010, for example, \"The New York Times\" columnist Thomas Friedman called for \"a Tea Party of the radical center\", an organized national pressure group. Friedman later co-wrote a book with scholar Michael Mandelbaum discussing key issues in American society and calling for an explicitly radical centrist politics and program to deal with them. At \"The Washington Post\", columnist Matthew Miller was explaining \"Why we need a third party of (radical) centrists\".\n\nIn 2011, Friedman championed Americans Elect, an insurgent group of radical centrist Democrats, Republicans and independents who were hoping to run an independent Presidential candidate in 2012. Meanwhile, Miller offered \"[t]he third-party stump speech we need\". In his book \"The Price of Civilization\" (2011), Columbia University economist Jeffrey Sachs called for the creation of a third U.S. party, an \"Alliance for the Radical Center\".\n\nWhile no independent radical-centrist presidential candidate emerged in 2012, John Avlon emphasized the fact that independent voters remain the fastest-growing portion of the electorate.\n\nIn late 2015, the No Labels organization, co-founded by Avlon, called a national \"Problem Solver\" convention to discuss how to best reduce political polarization and promote political solutions that could bridge the left-right divide. A lengthy article in \"The Atlantic\" about the convention conveys the views of leaders of a new generation of beyond-left-and-right (or both-left-and-right) organizations, including Joan Blades of Living Room Conversations, David Blankenhorn of Better Angels, Carolyn Lukensmeyer of the National Institute for Civil Discourse and Steve McIntosh of the Institute for Cultural Evolution. Following the 2016 presidential election, prominent U.S. commentator David Brooks praised No Labels and other such groups and offered them advice, including this: \"[D]eepen a positive national vision that is not merely a positioning between left and right\".\n\nBy the mid-2010s, several exponents of radical centrism had run, albeit unsuccessfully, for seats in the United States Congress, including Matthew Miller in California and Dave Anderson in Maryland.\n\nAccording to a January 2018 article in \"The Washington Post\", West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin greeted newly elected Alabama Senator Doug Jones with the phrase, \"Welcome to the radical middle\". Both senators have been regarded as moderate and bipartisan. In March 2018, the political newspaper \"The Hill\" ran an article by attorney Michael D. Fricklas entitled \"The Time for Radical Centrism Has Come\". It asserted that the ominibus spending bill for 2018 jettisoned spending proposals favored by both political \"extremes\" in order to obtain votes of \"principled moderates\", and that its passage therefore represented a victory for what Maine Senator Susan Collins calls \"radical centrism\".\n\nEven before the 21st century, some observers were criticizing what they saw as radical centrism. In the 1960s, liberal political cartoonist Jules Feiffer employed the term \"radical middle\" to mock what he saw as the timid and pretentious outlook of the American political class. During the Ross Perot presidential campaign of 1992, conservative journalist William Safire suggested that a more appropriate term for the radical center might be the \"smarling center\". In 1998, Belgian political theorist Chantal Mouffe argued that passionate and often bitter conflict between left and right is a necessary feature of any democracy.\n\nSome 21st-century commentators argue that radical centrist policies are not substantially different from conventional centrist ideas. For example, liberal journalist Robert Kuttner says there already is a radical centrist party –\"It's called the Democrats\". Social theorist Richard Kahlenberg says that Ted Halstead and Michael Lind's book \"Radical Center\" is too skeptical about the virtues of labor unions and too ardent about the virtues of the market.\n\nOthers contend that radical centrist policies lack clarity. For example, in 2001 journalist Eric Alterman said that the New America Foundation think tank was neither liberal nor progressive and did not know what it was.\n\nIn 2017, in a 1,700-word article for \"CounterPunch\" entitled \"Beware the Radical Center\", Canadian writer Ryan Shah characterized radical centrism as a just-in-time \"repackaging\" of neoliberalism meant to sustain the political, economic, and social status quo. He warned that political leaders such as Europe's Emmanuel Macron and North America's Justin Trudeau were creating a false image of radical centrist programs as progressive, and urged leftists to develop \"genuine\" policy alternatives to neoliberalism such as those advocated by British Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn. Similarly, \"Politico\" reports that some think Spain's radical centrist Ciudadanos (Citizens) party is \"encouraged by the Spanish establishment\" in order to undercut the radical left and preserve the status quo.\n\nBy contrast, some observers claim that radical centrist ideas are too different from mainstream policies to be viable. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of \"The New York Times Book Review\", called the proposals in Halstead and Lind's book \"utopian\". According to Ed Kilgore, the policy director of the Democratic Leadership Council, Mark Satin's \"Radical Middle\" book \"ultimately places him in the sturdy tradition of 'idealistic' American reformers who think smart and principled people unencumbered by political constraints can change everything\".\n\nSome have suggested that radical centrists may be making false assumptions about their effectiveness or appeal. In the United States, for example, political analyst James Joyner found that states adopting non-partisan redistricting commissions, a favorite radical-centrist proposal, have been no more fiscally responsible than states without such commissions. In 2017, \"The Economist\" wondered whether Latin Americans really wanted to hear the \"hard truths\" about their societies that some radical centrists were offering them.\n\nRadical centrist attitudes have also been criticized. For example, many bloggers have characterized Thomas Friedman's columns on radical centrism as elitist and glib. In Australia, some think that Australian attorney Noel Pearson – long an advocate of radical centrism – is in fact a \"polarizing partisan\". In 2012, conservative Knesset member Tzipi Hotovely criticized Israel's radical center for lacking such attributes as courage, decisiveness, and realistic thinking.\n\nSome observers question the wisdom of seeking consensus, post-partisanship or reconciliation in political life. Political scientist Jonathan Bernstein argues that American democratic theory from the time of James Madison's Federalist No. 10 (1787) has been based on the acknowledgement of faction and the airing of debate, and he sees no reason to change now.\n\nOther observers feel radical centrists are misreading the political situation. For example, conservative journalist Ramesh Ponnuru says liberals and conservatives are not ideologically opposed to such radical centrist measures as limiting entitlements and raising taxes to cover national expenditures. Instead, voters are opposed to them and things will change when voters can be convinced otherwise.\n\nThe third-party strategy favored by many U.S. radical centrists has been criticized as impractical and diversionary. According to these critics, what is needed instead is (a) reform of the legislative process; and (b) candidates in existing political parties who will support radical centrist ideas. The specific third-party vehicle favored by many U.S. radical centrists in 2012 – Americans Elect – was criticized as an \"elite-driven party\" supported by a \"dubious group of Wall Street multi-millionaires\".\n\nAfter spending time with a variety of radical centrists, journalist Alec MacGillis concluded that their perspectives are so disparate that they could never come together to build a viable political organization.\n\nSome radical centrists are less than sanguine about their future. One concern is co-optation. For example, Michael Lind worries that the enthusiasm for the term radical center, on the part of \"arbiters of the conventional wisdom\", may signal a weakening of the radical vision implied by the term.\n\nAnother concern is passion. John Avlon fears that some centrists cannot resist the lure of passionate partisans, whom he calls \"wingnuts\". By contrast, Mark Satin worries that radical centrism, while \"thoroughly sensible\", lacks an \"animating passion\" – and claims there has never been a successful political movement without one.\n\nSome radical centrists, such as theorist Tom Atlee, mediator Mark Gerzon, and activist Joseph F. McCormick, see radical centrism as primarily a commitment to process. Their approach is to facilitate processes of structured dialogue among polarized people and groups, from the neighborhood level on up. A major goal is to enable dialogue participants to come up with new perspectives and solutions that can address every party's core interests. \"Onward Christian Athletes\" author Tom Krattenmaker speaks of the radical center as that (metaphoric) space where such dialogue and innovation can occur. Similarly, \"The Lipstick Proviso: Women, Sex, and Power in the Real World\" author Karen Lehrman Bloch speaks of the radical middle as a \"common ground\" where left and right can \"nurture a saner society\".\n\nOrganizations seeking to catalyze dialogue and innovation among diverse people and groups have included AmericaSpeaks, C1 World Dialogue,\nEveryday Democracy, Listening Project (North Carolina), Living Room Conversations, Public Conversations Project, Search for Common Ground, and Village Square. The city of Portland, Oregon has been characterized as \"radical middle\" in \"USA Today\" newspaper because many formerly antagonistic groups there are said to be talking to, learning from and working with one another.\n\nIn 2005, \"The Atlantic\" portrayed Egyptian Islamic cleric Ali Gomaa as the voice of an emergent form of radical Islam – \"traditionalism without the extremism\". In 2012, in an article entitled \"The Radical Middle: Building Bridges Between the Muslim and Western Worlds, Gomaa shared his approach to \nthe dialogic process:\nThe purpose of dialogue should not be to convert others, but rather to share with them one's principles. Sincere dialogue should strengthen one's faith while breaking down barriers. ... Dialogue is a process of exploration and coming to know the other, as much as it is an example of clarifying one's own positions. Therefore, when one dialogues with others, what is desired is to explore their ways of thinking, so as to correct misconceptions in our own minds and arrive at common ground.\n\nIn 2017, former American football player and Green Beret soldier Nate Boyer suggested that his \"radical middle\" stance could help address the issues and resolve the controversy surrounding U.S. national anthem protests at football games.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5479856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5479856", "title": "Transitional justice", "text": "Transitional justice\n\nTransitional justice consists of judicial and non-judicial measures implemented in order to redress legacies of human rights abuses. Such measures \"include criminal prosecutions, truth commissions, reparations programs, and various kinds of institutional reforms\". Transitional justice is enacted at a point of political transition from violence and repression to societal stability and it is informed by a society’s desire to rebuild social trust, repair a fractured justice system, and build a democratic system of governance. The core value of transitional justice is the very notion of justice—which does not necessarily mean criminal justice. This notion and the political transformation, such as regime change or transition from conflict are thus linked toward a more peaceful, certain, and democratic future.\n\nTransitional justice has recently received greater attention by both academics and policymakers. It has also generated interest in the fields of political and legal discourse, especially in transitional societies. In period of political transitions, from authoritarian, dictatorial regimes or from civil conflicts to democracy, transitional justice has often provided opportunities for such societies to address past human rights abuses, mass atrocities, or other forms of severe trauma in order to facilitate a smooth transition into a more democratic or peaceful future.\n\nThe origins of the transitional justice field can be traced back to the post-World War II period in Europe with the establishment of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg and the various de-Nazification programs in Germany and the trials of Japanese soldiers at Tokyo Tribunal. What became known as the \"Nuremberg Trials\", when the victorious allied forces extended criminal justice to Japanese and German soldiers and their leaders for war crimes committed during the war, marked the genesis of transitional justice. The field gained momentum and coherence during the 1980s and onwards, beginning with the trials of former members of the military juntas in Greece (1975), and Argentina (Trial of the Juntas, 1983). The focus of transitional justice in the 1970s and 1980s was on criminal justice with a focus on human rights promotion. This led to a worldwide focus and progressive rise of human rights regime culminating in the establishments of international human rights laws and conventions.\n\nThe emphasis of transitional justice was on how abuses of human rights get treated during political transition: legal and criminal prosecution. As noted earlier, the universal conceptions of \"justice\" became the platform on which transitional justice was premised. The field in its early epistemology, thus, assumed jurisprudence of human rights. As a result, the initial literature on transitional justice was dominated by lawyers, law, and legal rights: defining laws, and processes on how to deal with human rights abuse and holding people accountable. Thus, transitional justice has its roots in both the human rights movement and in international human rights and humanitarian law. These origins in the human rights movement have rendered transitional justice “self-consciously victim-centric”.\n\nThe late 1980s and early 1990s saw a shift in the focus of transitional justice. Informed by the worldwide wave of democratization, particularly the third wave, transitional justice reemerged as a new field of study in democratization. Transitional justice broadened its scope from more narrow questions of jurisprudence to political considerations of developing stable democratic institutions and renewing civil society. Studies by scholars on the transition from autocratic regimes to democratic ones have integrated the transitional justice framework into an examination of the political processes inherent to democratic change. The challenges of democratization in transitional periods are many: settling past accounts without derailing democratic progress, developing judicial or third-party fora capable of resolving conflicts, reparations, and creating memorials and developing educational curricula that redress cultural lacunae and unhealed trauma.\n\nIt is clear that elements of transitional justice have broken the initial mold of post-war jurisprudence. The transitional justice framework has benefited from democratic activists who sought to bolster fledgling democracies and bring them into line with the moral and legal obligations articulated in the international human rights consensus.\n\nOne particular innovation is the appearance of truth commissions. Beginning with Argentina in 1983, Chile in 1990, and South Africa in 1995, truth commissions have become a symbol of transitional justice, appearing in transitional societies in Latin America, Africa, Asia, and Eastern Europe. However, several attempts to create a regional truth commission in the former Yugoslavia (REKOM) have failed due to political obstacles. Recent years have also seen proposals for truth and reconciliation commissions in conflict zones of the Middle East and it is likely that these transitional justice institutions will someday figure prominently in Israel and Palestine, Iraq, Lebanon, and the Kurdish regions.\n\nAnother major institutional innovation is the appearance of the variety of lustration programs in Central and Eastern Europe since the 1990s. While most countries pursued programs based on dismissals of compromised personnel and comprehensive screening tools, other countries implemented more inclusive methods allowing discredited personnel a second chance.\n\nAs a link between transition and justice, the concept of transitional justice transformed in the late 1940s to assume a broader perspective of comprehensive examination of the society in transition from a retrospective to a prospective position with democratic consolidation as one of the primary objectives. Scholars and practitioners of democratization have come to a common conclusion on the general principles of a transitional justice framework: that national strategies to confront past abuses, depending on the specific nature and context of the country in question, can contribute to accountability, an end to impunity, reconstruct state–citizen relations, and the creation of democratic institutions.\n\nThe primary objective of a transitional justice policy is to end the culture of impunity and establish the rule of law in a context of democratic governance. The legal and human rights protection roots of transitional justice impute certain legal obligations on states undergoing transitions. It challenges such societies to strive for a society where respect for human rights is the core and accountability is routinely practiced as the main goals. In the context of these goals, transitional justice aims at:\n\n\nIn general, therefore, one can identify eight broad objectives that transitional justice aims to serve: establishing the truth, providing victims a public platform, holding perpetrators accountable, strengthening the rule of law, providing victims with compensation, effectuating institutional reform, promoting reconciliation, and promoting public deliberation.\n\nIn order to be effective, transitional justice measures should be part of a holistic approach. There are five broad strategies or forms of transitional justice: 1) Criminal prosecutions, 2) Truth commissions, 3) Reparation programs, 4) Security sector reform, 5) Memorialization efforts. The needs of the survivors are essential and including gender justice is necessary to ensure women have equal access to the mechanisms.\n\nThe investigation and prosecution of serious international crimes, such as genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes helps to strengthen the rule of law by sanctioning those who violate laws with criminal penalties. It also demonstrates that crime will not be tolerated, and that human rights abusers will be held accountable for their actions. From its historical roots in the Nuremberg Trials, recent examples have included International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, hybrid courts such as Special Court for Sierra Leone, Special Panels of the Dili District Court, Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC), assuming a universal jurisdiction. The ICC and Hybrid Courts/Tribunals are key components of prosecution initiatives:\n\nThe International Criminal Court (ICC) was established by the Rome Statute in 1998. It is the first international criminal court that helps end impunity for perpetrators of severe crimes. It was established to investigate and try leaders of genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity in cases where countries are unable or unwilling to do so.\n\nHybrid courts and tribunals have emerged as “third generation” courts established to investigate and prosecute human rights offenses. They follow the “first generation” Nuremberg and Tokyo tribunals and the “second generation” International Criminal Court and International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and Rwanda (ICTR). These courts consist of both international and domestic justice actors. They attempt to deliver justice that the domestic justice systems cannot provide alone due to lack of capacity or political will. Furthermore, hybrid courts attempt to strengthen domestic capacities to prosecute human rights abuses through the transfer of international legal skills and expertise. Examples include the Special Court for Sierra Leone and the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia. A step beyond within a more societal and traditional scope of justice could be the Gacaca for Rwanda.\n\nReparations aim to repair the suffering of victims of human rights abuses. They seek to make amends with victims, help them overcome the consequences of abuse, and provide rehabilitation. They may include financial payments, social services including health care or education, or symbolic compensation such as public apologies. One example is the Canadian government’s apology “Statement of Reconciliation” to indigenous Canadian families for removing their children and placing them in church-run Indian Residential Schools. The Canadian government also created a $350 million fund to help those affected by the schools.\n\nTruth-seeking encompasses initiatives allowing actors in a country to investigate past abuses and seek redress for victims. These processes aim to enable societies to examine and come to terms with past crimes and human rights violations in order to prevent their recurrence. They help create documentation that prevents repressive regimes from rewriting history and denying the past. They can also help victims obtain closure by knowing the truth about what actually happened (such as to “disappeared” people) and understanding the atrocities they endured. Truth-seeking measures may include freedom of information legislation, declassification of archives, investigations, and truth commissions.\n\nTruth commissions are non-judicial commissions of inquiry that aim to discover and reveal past abuses by a government or non-state actors; about forty official truth commissions have been created worldwide. One example is the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa, which was established to help overcome apartheid and reconcile tensions in the country.\n\nMemorials seek to preserve memories of people or events. In the context of transitional justice, they serve to honor those who died during conflict or other atrocities, examine the past, address contemporary issues and show respect to victims. They can help create records to prevent denial and help societies move forward. Memorials may include commemoration activities, such as architectural memorials, museums, and other commemorative events. One example includes the monuments, annual prayer ceremony, and mass grave in northern Uganda, created in response to the war conducted by and against the Lord’s Resistance Army there.\n\nPublic institutions, including the police, military, and judiciary, often contribute to repression and other human rights violations. When societies undergo a transition, these institutions must be reformed in order to create accountability and prevent the recurrence of abuse. Institutional reform includes the process of restructuring these state actors to ensure that they respect human rights and abide by the rule of law.\n\nReforms can include measures such as vetting, lustration, and Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR). Vetting is the process of eliminating corrupt or abusive officials from public service employment. For instance, in Afghanistan, election candidates in the 2009 and 2010 elections were vetted. While similar to lustration, \"vetting\" is the broader category referring to processes aimed at screening and excluding human rights abusers from public institutions while \"lustration\" refers specifically to the vetting processes and laws that were implemented in the former communist countries in Eastern and Central Europe after the end of the Cold War. Vetting does not necessarily imply dismissals from the state apparatus. Several countries developed alternative personnel systems that provide for the inclusion of inherited personnel in exchange for their exposure or confession. DDR programs assist ex‑combatants in rejoining society.\n\nOne example of institutional reform is the removal of court officials involved in crimes of the fallen Tunisian regime. Under Ben Ali’s rule, courts often facilitated corruption. The removal of implicated officials is a part of the government’s efforts to reconcile this abuse.\n\nStates in times of transition to democracy, since the early 1980s, have been using a variety of transitional justice mechanisms as part of measures to account for the past and build a future democratic state. Mechanisms, such as trials, truth commissions, reparations, lustration, museums, and other memory sites have been employed either single-handedly or in a combined form to address past human rights violations. Diverse studies ranging from the decision-making process of a choice of strategy through to the implementation of the transitional justice policy and impacts on the transition and future stability of the society in question have been produced by scholars in recent years. One illuminating study in particular that has documented the dramatic new trend of transitional justice and democratization is by Kathryn Sikkink and Carrie Booth Walling (2006). In their research paper described as the \"justice cascade\", Sikkink and Walling conducting analysis of truth commissions and human rights trials occurring throughout the world from 1979 to 2004 revealed a significant increase in the judicialization of world politics both regionally and internationally. Of the 192 countries surveyed, 34 have used truth commissions, and 50 had at least one transitional human rights trial.\n\nMore than two-thirds of the approximately 85 new and/or transitional countries during that period used either trials or truth commissions as a transitional justice mechanism; over half tried some form of judicial proceedings. Thus, the use of a truth commission and/or human rights trials among transitional countries is not an isolated or marginal practice, but a widespread social practice occurring in the bulk of transitional countries.\n\nSince its emergence, transitional justice has encountered numerous challenges such as identifying victims, deciding whether to punish superiors or middle agents, avoiding a \"victor’s justice\", and finding adequate resources for compensation, trial, or institutional reform. Also, the transitional period may only result in a tenuous peace or fragile democracy. As has been noted in the discourse on transition to democracy, the dilemma has always been for new regimes to promote accountability for past abuses without risking a smooth transition to democracy. In addition, existing judicial system might be weak, corrupt, or ineffective and in effect make achieving any viable justice difficult. Observers of transitional justice application and processes, such as Makau W. Mutua (2000) emphasized on the difficulties of achieving actual justice through one of the most prominent mechanisms of transitional justice, trials. Commenting on the international tribunal established in Rwanda in 1994, he argued that it “serves to deflect responsibility, to assuage the consciences of states which were unwilling to stop the genocide... [and] largely masks the illegitimacy of the Tutsi regime”. In sum, Matua argues that criminal tribunals such as those in Rwanda and Yugoslavia are “less meaningful if they cannot be applied or enforced without prejudice to redress transgressions or unless they have a deterrent effect such as behavior modification on the part of would be perpetrators”.\n\nMore recently, Lyal S. Sunga has argued that unless truth commissions are set up and conducted according to international human rights law, international criminal law and international humanitarian law, they risk conflicting or undermining criminal prosecutions, whether these prosecutions are supposed to be carried out at the national or international levels. He contends that this risk is particularly pronounced where truth commissions employ amnesties, and especially blanket amnesties to pardon perpetrators of serious crimes. On the other hand, criminal prosecutions should be better tailored to focus on victims and to place events in proper perspective. Sunga therefore proposes ten principles for making truth and national reconciliation commissions fully complementary to criminal prosecutions in a way that conforms fully to international law.\n\nThis type of critique of transitional justice mechanisms could cause some scholars and policymakers to wonder which of the objectives outlined above are most important to achieve, and even if they are achievable. Truth commissions could be characterized as a second-best alternative and also an affront to rule of law, because of the possibility that amnesty and indemnities will be made exchange for truth. These sets of challenges can raise critical questions for transitional justice in its application. Questions and issues, such as: Can the \"truth\" ever really be established? Can all victims be given compensation or a public platform? Can all perpetrators be held accountable? Or is it sufficient to acknowledge that atrocities were committed and that victims should be compensated for their suffering?\n\nAlso, one might argue that too narrow a focus on the challenges of the field runs the risk of making transitional justice seem meaningless. However transitional justice aims at an ongoing search for truth, justice, forgiveness, and healing, and efforts undertaken within it help people to live alongside former enemies. Simply put, “the past must be addressed in order to reach the future”. Thus, even if the impact or reach of transitional justice seems marginal, the end result is worth the effort.\n\nAnother way of assessing attempts at transitional justice is to say that decision makers may have less control over the methods used to pursue such policies than they imagine. In fact, whatever their wishes, they may not be able to prevent such policies at all. As A. James McAdams has demonstrated in his book, \"Judging the Past in Unified Germany\" (2001), West German policymakers such as former chancellor Helmut Kohl wanted to close public access to the files of East Germany's secret police, the Stasi, but pressures from East German dissidents prevented them from doing so.\n\nAnother challenge is the tension between peace and justice, which arises the conflicting goals of achieving peace and justice in the aftermath of a society’s emergence from conflict. Though it is generally unanimous that both goals are integral to achieving reconciliation, practitioners often disagree about which goal should be pursued first: justice or peace? Proponents of the “justice” school of thought argue that if all perpetrators of human rights abuses do not stand trial, impunity for crimes will continue into the new regime, preventing it from fully completing a transition from conflict. The \"peace\" school of thought, however, argues that the only way to effectively end violence is by granting amnesties and brokering negotiations to persuade criminals to lay down their arms. Examples such as Northern Ireland illustrate how selective amnesties can cease conflict.\n\nRecent trends in the post-conflict field have tended to favor the “justice” school of thought, maintaining that only if justice is dutifully served to victims of the conflict can civil war will be prevented from recurring. A 2011 debate in \"The Economist\" determined in its concluding polls that 76% of the debate participants agreed with the motion that achieving peace can occur only through implementing justice mechanisms.\n\nLiterary scholars and historians have begun to use the concept of transitional justice to reexamine historical events and texts. Christopher N. Warren, for instance, has applied transitional justice to pre-Restoration England, claiming that it helps explain how Anglican royalists convinced Presbyterians to assent to a restoration of the monarchy. Warren also argues that English poet John Milton “can be seen as an early critic of transitional justice,” using the allegory of Sin and Death in his epic poem Paradise Lost to complicate “overly-rosy” depictions of transitional justice.\n\nAlthough transitional justice is engulfed by many critical challenges in addition to the difficulty in measuring its impact, given the number of other factors in any given country’s experience over time, human rights trials or truth commissions need not have a negative effect on human rights practices. This makes transitional justice viable, especially in this age of state-building and democracy promotion in post-conflict societies. In fact, Sikkink and Walling’s comparison of human rights conditions before and after trials in Latin American countries with two or more trial years showed that eleven of the fourteen countries had better Political Terror Scale (PTS) ratings after trials. Latin American countries that had both a truth commission and human rights trials improved more on their PTS ratings than countries that only had trials. These statistics indicate that transitional justice mechanisms are associated with countries’ improving their human rights practices. Each state that employs transitional justice mechanisms will have to determine which mechanisms to use to best achieve the targeted goals. In order to avoid causing disappointment amongst victims, the state should also ensure that the public is well-informed about the goals and limits of those mechanisms.\n\nTransitional justice shows no signs of decreasing in use. Indeed, the incorporation of transitional justice policies, tools and programs in peacebuilding and democratization process operations by the United Nations (UN) and in the programs by many local and international democracy promotion organizations, including, the Stockholm-based International Institute for Electoral Assistance and Democracy (International IDEA) and a host of others as well as the establishments of other international non-governmental organizations (INGOs) and networks such as the International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) and the African Transitional Justice Research Network (ATJRN) and research centers like the Transitional Justice Institute are strong manifestations of how well placed transitional justice has become a feature in the discourse of transitional politics in the 21st century. Academic publications such as the International Journal of Transitional Justice are also contributing towards building an interdisciplinary field with the hope that future innovations are tailored for a specific state’s situation and will contribute towards political transitions that address the past as well as establish guarantees for respect of human rights and democracy.\n\nThe World Bank's \"2011 World Development Report on Conflict, Security, and Development” links transitional justice to security and development. It explores how countries can avoid cycles of violence and emphasizes the importance of transitional justice, arguing that it is one of the “signaling mechanisms” that governments can use to show that they are breaking away from past practices. It also argues that transitional justice measures can send signals about the importance of accountability and to improve institutional capacity.\n\nIn September 2011, the International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) published a report advocating the need to understand traditional transitional justice measures from a child's perspective. The report identifies children as a large demographic too often excluded from traditional transitional justice measures. In order to correct this imbalance, a new child-centered perspective is needed to incorporate children into the larger scope of transitional justice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3404604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404604", "title": "Uniform Combined State Law Exam", "text": "Uniform Combined State Law Exam\n\nThe Uniform Combined State Law Examination also called the Series 66 exam is designed to qualify candidates as both securities agents and investment adviser representatives in the United States. It was developed by North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) and operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).\n\nThe Uniform Combined State Law Examination consists of 100 multiple-choice questions and 10 pretest questions. Applicants are allowed 2½ hours (150 minutes) to complete the examination.\n\nThe examination is conducted as a closed-book test. Upon completion of the examination, the score for each section and the overall test score will be processed by Financial Industry Regulatory Authority headquarters and made available to the candidate's sponsor. \n\nA score of at least 73% on the Series 66 exam is needed to pass and become eligible for registration as a Registered Investment Adviser Representative. Prior to July 1, 2016, candidates had to attain scores of 75% in order to pass and prior to January 1, 2010, candidates had to attain scores of 71% in order to pass.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92025", "title": "United States antitrust law", "text": "United States antitrust law\n\nUnited States Antitrust law is a collection of federal and state government laws that regulates the conduct and organization of business corporations, generally to promote fair competition for the benefit of consumers. (The concept is called competition law in other English-speaking countries.) The main statutes are the Sherman Act of 1890, the Clayton Act of 1914 and the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914. These Acts, first, restrict the formation of cartels and prohibit other collusive practices regarded as being in restraint of trade. Second, they restrict the mergers and acquisitions of organizations that could substantially lessen competition. Third, they prohibit the creation of a monopoly and the abuse of monopoly power.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, state governments and private parties who are sufficiently affected may all bring actions in the courts to enforce the antitrust laws. The scope of antitrust laws, and the degree to which they should interfere in an enterprise's freedom to conduct business, or to protect smaller businesses, communities and consumers, are strongly debated. One view, mostly closely associated with the \"Chicago School of economics\" suggests that antitrust laws should focus solely on the benefits to consumers and overall efficiency, while a broad range of legal and economic theory sees the role of antitrust laws as also controlling economic power in the public interest.\n\nAlthough \"trust\" has a specific legal meaning (where one person holds property for the benefit of another), in the late 19th century the word was commonly used to denote big business, because that legal instrument was frequently used to effect a combination of companies. Large manufacturing conglomerates emerged in great numbers in the 1880s and 1890s, and were perceived to have excessive economic power. The Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 began a shift towards federal rather than state regulation of big business. It was followed by the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 and the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914, the Robinson–Patman Act of 1936, and the Celler–Kefauver Act of 1950.\n\nAt this time hundreds of small short-line railroads were being bought up and consolidated into giant systems. (Separate laws and policies emerged regarding railroads and financial concerns such as banks and insurance companies.) People for strong antitrust laws argued that, in order for the American economy to be successful, it would require free competition and the opportunity for individual Americans to build their own businesses. As Senator John Sherman put it, \"If we will not endure a king as a political power we should not endure a king over the production, transportation, and sale of any of the necessaries of life.\" Congress passed the Sherman Antitrust Act almost unanimously in 1890, and it remains the core of antitrust policy. The Act prohibits agreements in restraint of trade and abuse of monopoly power. It gives the Justice Department the mandate to go to federal court for orders to stop illegal behavior or to impose remedies.\n\nPublic officials during the Progressive Era put passing and enforcing strong antitrust high on their agenda. President Theodore Roosevelt sued 45 companies under the Sherman Act, while William Howard Taft sued 75. In 1902, Roosevelt stopped the formation of the Northern Securities Company, which threatened to monopolize transportation in the Northwest (see \"Northern Securities Co. v. United States\").\nOne of the more well known trusts was the Standard Oil Company; John D. Rockefeller in the 1870s and 1880s had used economic threats against competitors and secret rebate deals with railroads to build what was called a monopoly in the oil business, though some minor competitors remained in business. In 1911 the Supreme Court agreed that in recent years (1900–1904) Standard had violated the Sherman Act (see \"Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States\"). It broke the monopoly into three dozen separate companies that competed with one another, including Standard Oil of New Jersey (later known as Exxon and now ExxonMobil), Standard Oil of Indiana (Amoco), Standard Oil Company of New York (Mobil, again, later merged with Exxon to form ExxonMobil), of California (Chevron), and so on. In approving the breakup the Supreme Court added the \"rule of reason\": not all big companies, and not all monopolies, are evil; and the courts (not the executive branch) are to make that decision. To be harmful, a trust had to somehow damage the economic environment of its competitors.\n\nUnited States Steel Corporation, which was much larger than Standard Oil, won its antitrust suit in 1920 despite never having delivered the benefits to consumers that Standard Oil did. In fact, it lobbied for tariff protection that reduced competition, and so contending that it was one of the \"good trusts\" that benefited the economy is somewhat doubtful. Likewise International Harvester survived its court test, while other monopolies were broken up in tobacco, meatpacking, and bathtub fixtures. Over the years hundreds of executives of competing companies who met together illegally to fix prices went to federal prison.\n\nIn 1914 Congress passed the Clayton Act, which prohibited specific business actions (such as price discrimination and tying) if they substantially lessened competition. At the same time Congress established the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), whose legal and business experts could force business to agree to \"consent decrees\", which provided an alternative mechanism to police antitrust.\n\nAmerican hostility to big business began to decrease after the Progressive Era. For example, Ford Motor Company dominated auto manufacturing, built millions of cheap cars that put America on wheels, and at the same time lowered prices, raised wages, and promoted manufacturing efficiency. Welfare capitalism made large companies an attractive place to work; new career paths opened up in middle management; local suppliers discovered that big corporations were big purchasers. Talk of trust busting faded away. Under the leadership of Herbert Hoover, the government in the 1920s promoted business cooperation, fostered the creation of self-policing trade associations, and made the FTC an ally of \"respectable business\".\nDuring the New Deal, attempts were made to stop cutthroat competition. The National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) was a short-lived program in 1933–35 designed to strengthen trade associations, and raise prices, profits and wages at the same time. The Robinson-Patman Act of 1936 sought to protect local retailers against the onslaught of the more efficient chain stores, by making it illegal to discount prices. To control big business, the New Deal policymakers federal and state regulation—controlling the rates and telephone services provided by AT&T, for example—and by building up countervailing power in the form of labor unions.\n\nIn 1982 the Reagan administration used the Sherman Act to break up AT&T into one long-distance company and seven regional \"Baby Bells\", arguing that competition should replace monopoly for the benefit of consumers and the economy as a whole. The pace of business takeovers quickened in the 1990s, but whenever one large corporation sought to acquire another, it first had to obtain the approval of either the FTC or the Justice Department. Often the government demanded that certain subsidiaries be sold so that the new company would not monopolize a particular geographical market.\n\nIn 1999 a coalition of 19 states and the federal Justice Department sued Microsoft. A highly publicized trial found that Microsoft had strong-armed many companies in an attempt to prevent competition from the Netscape browser. In 2000, the trial court ordered Microsoft to split in two, preventing it from future misbehavior. The Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part. In addition, it removed the judge from the case for discussing the case with the media while it was still pending. With the case in front of a new judge, Microsoft and the government settled, with the government dropping the case in return for Microsoft agreeing to cease many of the practices the government challenged. In his defense, CEO Bill Gates argued that Microsoft always worked on behalf of the consumer and that splitting the company would diminish efficiency and slow the pace of software development.\n\nPreventing collusion and cartels that act in restraint of trade is an essential task of antitrust law. It reflects the view that each business has a duty to act independently on the market, and so earn its profits solely by providing better priced and quality products than its competitors. The Sherman Act §1 prohibits \"[e]very contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce.\" This targets two or more distinct enterprises acting together in a way that harms third parties. It does not capture the decisions of a single enterprise, or a single economic entity, even though the form of an entity may be two or more separate legal persons or companies. In \"Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp.\" it was held an agreement between a parent company and a wholly owned subsidiary could not be subject to antitrust law, because the decision took place within a single economic entity. This reflects the view that if the enterprise (as an economic entity) has not acquired a monopoly position, or has significant market power, then no harm is done. The same rationale has been extended to joint ventures, where corporate shareholders make a decision through a new company they form. In \"Texaco Inc. v. Dagher\" the Supreme Court held unanimously that a price set by a joint venture between Texaco and Shell Oil did not count as making an unlawful agreement. Thus the law draws a \"basic distinction between concerted and independent action\". Multi-firm conduct tends to be seen as more likely than single-firm conduct to have an unambiguously negative effect and \"is judged more sternly\". Generally the law identifies four main categories of agreement. First, some agreements such as price fixing or sharing markets are automatically unlawful, or illegal \"per se\". Second, because the law does not seek to prohibit every kind of agreement that hinders freedom of contract, it developed a \"rule of reason\" where a practice might restrict trade in a way that is seen as positive or beneficial for consumers or society. Third, significant problems of proof and identification of wrongdoing arise where businesses make no overt contact, or simply share information, but appear to act in concert. Tacit collusion, particularly in concentrated markets with a small number of competitors or oligopolists, have led to significant controversy over whether or not antitrust authorities should intervene. Fourth, vertical agreements between a business and a supplier or purchaser \"up\" or \"downstream\" raise concerns about the exercise of market power, however they are generally subject to a more relaxed standard under the \"rule of reason\".\n\nSome practices are deemed by the courts to be so obviously detrimental that they are categorized as being automatically unlawful, or illegal \"per se\". The simplest and central case of this is price fixing. This involves an agreement by businesses to set the price or consideration of a good or service which they buy or sell from others at a specific level. If the agreement is durable, the general term for these businesses is a cartel. It is irrelevant whether or not the businesses succeed in increasing their profits, or whether together they reach the level of having market power as might a monopoly. Such collusion is illegal \"per se\".\n\n\nBid rigging is a form of price fixing and market allocation that involves an agreement in which one party of a group of bidders will be designated to win the bid. Geographic market allocation is an agreement between competitors not to compete within each other's geographic territories.\n\n\n\nIf an antitrust claim does not fall within a \"per se\" illegal category, the plaintiff must show the conduct causes harm in \"restraint of trade\" under the Sherman Act §1 according to \"the facts peculiar to the business to which the restraint is applied\". This essentially means that unless a plaintiff can point to a clear precedent, to which the situation is analogous, proof of an anti-competitive effect is more difficult. The reason for this is that the courts have endeavoured to draw a line between practices that restrain trade in a \"good\" compared to a \"bad\" way. In the first case, \"United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association\", the Supreme Court found that railroad companies had acted unlawfully by setting up an organisation to fix transport prices. The railroads had protested that their intention was to keep prices low, not high. The court found that this was not true, but stated that not every \"restraint of trade\" in a literal sense could be unlawful. Just as under the common law, the restraint of trade had to be \"unreasonable\". In \"Chicago Board of Trade v. United States\" the Supreme Court found a \"good\" restraint of trade. The Chicago Board of Trade had a rule that commodities traders were not allowed to privately agree to sell or buy after the market's closing time (and then finalise the deals when it opened the next day). The reason for the Board of Trade having this rule was to ensure that all traders had an equal chance to trade at a transparent market price. It plainly restricted trading, but the Chicago Board of Trade argued this was beneficial. Brandeis J., giving judgment for a unanimous Supreme Court, held the rule to be pro-competitive, and comply with the rule of reason. It did not violate the Sherman Act §1. As he put it,\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Sherman Act 1890 initially dealt, in general, with cartels (where businesses combined their activities to the detriment of others) and monopolies (where one business was so large it could use its power to the detriment of others alone) it was recognized that this left a gap. Instead of forming a cartel, businesses could simply merge into one entity. The period between 1895 and 1904 saw a \"great merger movement\" as business competitors combined into ever more giant corporations. However upon a literal reading of Sherman Act, no remedy could be granted until a monopoly had already formed. The Clayton Act 1914 attempted to fill this gap by giving jurisdiction to prevent mergers in the first place if they would \"substantially lessen competition\".\n\nDual antitrust enforcement by the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission has long elicited concerns about disparate treatment of mergers. In response, in September 2014, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Standard Merger and Acquisition Reviews Through Equal Rules Act (\"SMARTER Act\").\n\n\n\n\n\nThe law's treatment of monopolies is potentially the strongest in the field of antitrust law. Judicial remedies can force large organizations to be broken up, be run subject to positive obligations, massive penalties may be imposed, and/or the people involved can be sentenced to jail. Under §2 of the Sherman Act 1890 every \"person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize ... any part of the trade or commerce among the several States\" commits an offence. The courts have interpreted this to mean that monopoly is not unlawful \"per se\", but only if acquired through prohibited conduct. Historically, where the ability of judicial remedies to combat market power have ended, the legislature of states or the Federal government have still intervened by taking public ownership of an enterprise, or subjecting the industry to sector specific regulation (frequently done, for example, in the cases water, education, energy or health care). The law on public services and administration goes significantly beyond the realm of antitrust law's treatment of monopolies. When enterprises are not under public ownership, and where regulation does not foreclose the application of antitrust law, two requirements must be shown for the offense of monopolization. First, the alleged monopolist must possess sufficient power in an accurately defined market for its products or services. Second, the monopolist must have used its power in a prohibited way. The categories of prohibited conduct are not closed, and are contested in theory. Historically they have been held to include exclusive dealing, price discrimination, refusing to supply an essential facility, product tying and predatory pricing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn theory, which is hotly contested, predatory pricing happens when large companies with huge cash reserves and large lines of credit stifle competition by selling their products and services at a loss for a time, to force their smaller competitors out of business. With no competition, they are then free to consolidate control of the industry and charge whatever prices they wish. At this point, there is also little motivation for investing in further technological research, since there are no competitors left to gain an advantage over. High barriers to entry such as large upfront investment, notably named sunk costs, requirements in infrastructure and exclusive agreements with distributors, customers, and wholesalers ensure that it will be difficult for any new competitors to enter the market, and that if any do, the trust will have ample advance warning and time in which to either buy the competitor out, or engage in its own research and return to predatory pricing long enough to force the competitor out of business. Critics argue that the empirical evidence shows that \"predatory pricing\" does not work in practice and is better defeated by a truly free market than by antitrust laws (see Criticism of the theory of predatory pricing).\n\n\n\nAntitrust laws do not apply to, or are modified in, several specific categories of enterprise (including sports, media, utilities, health care, insurance, banks, and financial markets) and for several kinds of actor (such as employees or consumers taking collective action).\n\nFirst, since the Clayton Act 1914 §6, there is no application of antitrust laws to agreements between employees to form or act in labor unions. This was seen as the \"Bill of Rights\" for labor, as the Act laid down that the \"labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce\". The purpose was to ensure that employees with unequal bargaining power were not prevented from combining in the same way that their employers could combine in corporations, subject to the restrictions on mergers that the Clayton Act set out. However, sufficiently autonomous workers, such as professional sports players have been held to fall within antitrust provisions.\n\nSecond, professional sports leagues enjoy a number of exemptions. Mergers and joint agreements of professional football, hockey, baseball, and basketball leagues are exempt. Major League Baseball was held to be broadly exempt from antitrust law in \"Federal Baseball Club v. National League\". Holmes J held that the baseball league's organization meant that there was no commerce between the states taking place, even though teams traveled across state lines to put on the games. That travel was merely incidental to a business which took place in each state. It was subsequently held in 1952 in \"Toolson v. New York Yankees\", and then again in 1972 \"Flood v. Kuhn\", that the baseball league's exemption was an \"aberration\". However Congress had accepted it, and favored it, so retroactively overruling the exemption was no longer a matter for the courts, but the legislature. In \"United States v. International Boxing Club of New York\", it was held that, unlike baseball, boxing was not exempt, and in \"Radovich v. National Football League (NFL)\", professional football is generally subject to antitrust laws. As a result of the AFL-NFL merger, the National Football League was also given exemptions in exchange for certain conditions, such as not directly competing with college or high school football. However, the 2010 Supreme Court ruling in American Needle Inc. v. NFL characterised the NFL as a \"cartel\" of 32 independent businesses subject to antitrust law, not a single entity.\n\nThird, antitrust laws are modified where they are perceived to encroach upon the media and free speech, or are not strong enough. Newspapers under joint operating agreements are allowed limited antitrust immunity under the Newspaper Preservation Act of 1970. More generally, and partly because of concerns about media cross-ownership in the United States, regulation of media is subject to specific statutes, chiefly the Communications Act of 1934 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, under the guidance of the Federal Communications Commission. The historical policy has been to use the state's licensing powers over the airwaves to promote plurality. Antitrust laws do not prevent companies from using the legal system or political process to attempt to reduce competition. Most of these activities are considered legal under the Noerr-Pennington doctrine. Also, regulations by states may be immune under the Parker immunity doctrine.\n\n\nFourth, the government may grant monopolies in certain industries such as utilities and infrastructure where multiple players are seen as unfeasible or impractical.\n\nFifth, insurance is allowed limited antitrust exemptions as provided by the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945.\n\nSixth, M&A transactions in the defense sector are often subject to greater antitrust scrutiny from the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nThe remedies for violations of U.S. antitrust laws are as broad as any equitable remedy that a court has the power to make, as well as being able to impose penalties. When private parties have suffered an actionable loss, they may claim compensation. Under the Sherman Act 1890 §7, these may be trebled, a measure to encourage private litigation to enforce the laws and act as a deterrent. The courts may award penalties under §§1 and 2, which are measured according to the size of the company or the business. In their inherent jurisdiction to prevent violations in future, the courts have additionally exercised the power to break up businesses into competing parts under different owners, although this remedy has rarely been exercised (examples include \"Standard Oil\", \"Northern Securities Company\", \"American Tobacco Company\", \"AT&T Corporation\" and, although reversed on appeal, \"Microsoft\"). Three levels of enforcement come from the Federal government, primarily through the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, the governments of states, and private parties. Public enforcement of antitrust laws is seen as important, given the cost, complexity and daunting task for private parties to bring litigation, particularly against large corporations.\n\nThe federal government, via both the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, can bring civil lawsuits enforcing the laws. The United States Department of Justice alone may bring criminal antitrust suits under federal antitrust laws. Perhaps the most famous antitrust enforcement actions brought by the federal government were the break-up of AT&T's local telephone service monopoly in the early 1980s and its actions against Microsoft in the late 1990s.\n\nAdditionally, the federal government also reviews potential mergers to attempt to prevent market concentration. As outlined by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, larger companies attempting to merge must first notify the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice's Antitrust Division prior to consummating a merger. These agencies then review the proposed merger first by defining what the market is and then determining the market concentration using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) and each company's market share. The government looks to avoid allowing a company to develop market power, which if left unchecked could lead to monopoly power.\n\nThe United States Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission target nonreportable mergers for enforcement as well. Notably, between 2009 and 2013, 20% of all merger investigations conducted by the United States Department of Justice involved nonreportable transactions.\n\n\nDespite considerable effort by the Clinton administration, the Federal government attempted to extend antitrust cooperation with other countries for mutual detection, prosecution and enforcement. A bill was unanimously passed by the US Congress; however by 2000 only one treaty has been signed with Australia. On the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission announced it was seeking explanations from a US company, Apple Inc. In relation to potentially anticompetitive behaviour against an Australian bank in possible relation to Apple Pay. It is not known whether the treaty could influence the enquiry or outcome.\n\nIn many cases large US companies tend to deal with overseas antitrust within the overseas jurisdiction, autonomous of US laws, such as in Microsoft Corp v Commission and more recently, Google v European Union where the companies were heavily fined. Questions have been raised with regards to the consistency of antitrust between jurisdictions where the same antitrust corporate behaviour, and similar antitrust legal environment, is prosecuted in one jurisdiction but not another.\n\nState attorneys general may file suits to enforce both state and federal antitrust laws.\n\n\nPrivate civil suits may be brought, in both state and federal court, against violators of state and federal antitrust law. Federal antitrust laws, as well as most state laws, provide for triple damages against antitrust violators in order to encourage private lawsuit enforcement of antitrust law. Thus, if a company is sued for monopolizing a market and the jury concludes the conduct resulted in consumers' being overcharged $200,000, that amount will automatically be tripled, so the injured consumers will receive $600,000. The United States Supreme Court summarized why Congress authorized private antitrust lawsuits in the case \"Hawaii v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal.\", 405 U.S. 251, 262 (1972):\n\n\nThe Supreme Court calls the Sherman Antitrust Act a \"charter of freedom\", designed to protect free enterprise in America. One view of the statutory purpose, urged for example by Justice Douglas, was that the goal was not only to protect consumers, but at least as importantly to prohibit the use of power to control the marketplace.\n\nBy contrast, efficiency argue that antitrust legislation should be changed to primarily benefit consumers, and have no other purpose. Free market economist Milton Friedman states that he initially agreed with the underlying principles of antitrust laws (breaking up monopolies and oligopolies and promoting more competition), but that he came to the conclusion that they do more harm than good. Thomas Sowell argues that, even if a superior business drives out a competitor, it does not follow that competition has ended:\n\nAlan Greenspan argues that the very existence of antitrust laws discourages businessmen from some activities that might be socially useful out of fear that their business actions will be determined illegal and dismantled by government. In his essay entitled \"Antitrust,\" he says: \"No one will ever know what new products, processes, machines, and cost-saving mergers failed to come into existence, killed by the Sherman Act before they were born. No one can ever compute the price that all of us have paid for that Act which, by inducing less effective use of capital, has kept our standard of living lower than would otherwise have been possible.\" Those, like Greenspan, who oppose antitrust tend not to support competition as an end in itself but for its results—low prices. As long as a monopoly is not a coercive monopoly where a firm is securely insulated from \"potential\" competition, it is argued that the firm must keep prices low in order to discourage competition from arising. Hence, legal action is uncalled for and wrongly harms the firm and consumers.\n\nThomas DiLorenzo, an adherent of the Austrian School of economics, found that the \"trusts\" of the late 19th century were dropping their prices faster than the rest of the economy, and he holds that they were not monopolists at all. Ayn Rand, the American writer, provides a moral argument against antitrust laws. She holds that these laws in principle criminalize any person engaged in making a business successful, and, thus, are gross violations of their individual expectations. Such laissez faire advocates suggest that only a coercive monopoly should be broken up, that is the persistent, exclusive control of a vitally needed resource, good, or service such that the community is at the mercy of the controller, and where there are no suppliers of the same or substitute goods to which the consumer can turn. In such a monopoly, the monopolist is able to make pricing and production decisions without an eye on competitive market forces and is able to curtail production to price-gouge consumers. Laissez-faire advocates argue that such a monopoly can only come about through the use of physical coercion or fraudulent means by the corporation or by government intervention and that there is no case of a coercive monopoly ever existing that was not the result of government policies.\n\nJudge Robert Bork's writings on antitrust law (particularly \"The Antitrust Paradox\"), along with those of Richard Posner and other law and economics thinkers, were heavily influential in causing a shift in the U.S. Supreme Court's approach to antitrust laws since the 1970s, to be focused solely on what is best for the consumer rather than the company's practices.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3104779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104779", "title": "United States passport", "text": "United States passport\n\nUnited States passports are passports issued to citizens and nationals of the United States of America. They are issued exclusively by the U.S. Department of State. Besides passports (in booklet form), limited use passport cards are issued by the same organization subject to the same requirements. It is unlawful for U.S. citizens and nationals to enter or exit the United States without a valid U.S. passport or Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative-compliant passport-replacement document, though there are many exceptions, waivers are generally granted for U.S. citizens returning without a passport, and the exit requirement is not enforced.\n\nU.S. passport booklets are valid for travel by Americans to certain countries and/or for certain purposes though it may require a visa and the U.S. itself restricts its nationals from traveling to or engaging in commercial transactions in certain countries. They conform with recommended standards (i.e., size, composition, layout, technology) of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). There are five types of passport booklets; as well, the Department of State has issued only biometric passports as standard since August 2007, though non-biometric passports remained valid until their expiration dates. United States passports are property of the United States and must be returned to the U.S. Government upon demand.\n\nBy law, a valid unexpired U.S. passport (or passport card) is conclusive (and not just \"prima facie\") proof of U.S. citizenship, and has the same force and effect as proof of United States citizenship as certificates of naturalization or of citizenship, if issued to a U.S. citizen for the full period allowed by law. U.S. law does not prohibit U.S. citizens from holding passports of other countries, though they are required to use their U.S. passport to enter and leave the U.S.\n\nAmerican consular officials issued passports to some citizens of some of the thirteen states during the War for Independence (1775–1783). Passports were sheets of paper printed on one side, included a description of the bearer, and were valid for three to six months. The minister to France, Benjamin Franklin, based the design of passports issued by his mission on that of the French passport.\n\nFrom 1776 to 1783, no state government had a passport requirement. The Articles of Confederation government (1783–1789) did not have a passport requirement.\n\nThe Department of Foreign Affairs of the war period also issued passports, and the department, carried over by the Articles of Confederation government (1783–1789), continued to issue passports. In July 1789, the Department of Foreign Affairs was carried over by the government established under the Constitution. In September of that year, the name of the department was changed to Department of State. The department handled foreign relations and issued passports, and, until the mid-19th century had various domestic duties.\n\nFor decades thereafter, passports were issued not only by the Department of State but also by states and cities, and by notaries public. For example, an internal passport dated 1815 was presented to Massachusetts citizen George Barker to allow him to travel as a free black man to visit relatives in Southern slave states. Passports issued by American authorities other than the Department of State breached propriety and caused confusion abroad. Some European countries refused to recognize passports not issued by the Department of State, unless United States consular officials endorsed them. The problems led the Congress in 1856 to give to the Department of State the sole authority to issue passports.\n\nFrom 1789 through late 1941, the constitutionally established government required passports of citizens only during two periods: during the American Civil War (1861–1865), as well as during and shortly after World War I (1914–1918). The passport requirement of the Civil War era lacked statutory authority. During World War I (1914–1918), European countries instituted passport requirements. The of May 22, 1918, permitted the president, when the United States was at war, to proclaim a passport requirement, and President Wilson issued such a proclamation on August 18, 1918. World War I ended on November 11, 1918, but the passport requirement lingered until March 3, 1921, the last day of the Wilson administration.\n\nIn Europe, general peace between the end of the Napoleonic Wars (1815) and the beginning of World War I (1914), and development of rail roads, gave rise to international travel by large numbers of people. Countries such as Czarist Russia and the Ottoman Empire maintained passport requirements. After World War I, many European countries retained their passport requirements. Foreign passport requirements undercut the absence of a passport requirement for Americans exiting the country, under United States law, between 1921 and 1941.\n\nThe contemporary period of required passports for Americans under United States law began on November 29, 1941. A 1978 amendment to the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 made it unlawful to enter or depart the United States without an issued passport even in peacetime.\n\nEven when passports were not usually required, Americans requested U.S. passports. Records of the Department of State show that 130,360 passports were issued between 1810 and 1873, and that 369,844 passports were issued between 1877 and 1909. Some of those passports were family passports or group passports. A passport application could cover, variously, a wife, a child, or children, one or more servants, or a woman traveling under the protection of a man. The passport would be issued to the man. Similarly, a passport application could cover a child traveling with his or her mother. The passport would be issued to the mother. The number of Americans who traveled without passports is unknown.\n\nThe League of Nations held a conference in 1920 concerning passports and through-train travel, and conferences in 1926 and 1927 concerning passports. The 1920 conference put forward guidelines on the layout and features of passports, which the 1926 and 1927 conferences followed up. Those guidelines were steps in the shaping of contemporary passports. One of the guidelines was about 32-page passport booklets, such as the U.S. type III mentioned in this section, below. Another guideline was about languages in passports. See Languages, below. A conference on travel and tourism held by the United Nations in 1963 did not result in standardised passports. Passport standardization was accomplished in 1980 under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organization.\n\nThe design and contents of U.S. passports changed over the years. Prior to World War I the passport was typically a large (11 x 17 inch) diploma, with a large engraved seal of the Department of State at the top, repeated in red wax at the bottom, the bearer's description and signature on the left, and his name on the right above space for data such as \"accompanied by his wife,\" all in ornate script. In 1926, the Department of State introduced the type III passport. This had a stiff red cover, with a window cutout through which the passport number was visible. That style of passport contained 32 pages. American passports had green covers from 1941 until 1976, when the cover was changed to blue, as part of the U.S. bicentennial celebration. Green covers were again issued from April 1993, until March 1994, and included a special one-page tribute to Benjamin Franklin in commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the United States Consular Service. Currently blue passports, with the pages showing historical and natural scenes of the U.S., are issued. Initially a U.S. passport was issued for two years, although by the 1950s on application by the holder a passport could be stamped so that this time was extended without reissue. In the succeeding decades the initial lengths for adult applicants were extended to three, five, and eventually to ten years, the current standard. At this time stamping for a further extension is not allowed.\n\nIn 1981, the United States became the first country to introduce machine-readable passports. In 2000, the Department of State started to issue passports with digital photos, and as of 2010, all previous series have expired. In 2006, the Department of State began to issue biometric passports to diplomats and other officials.\nLater in 2006, biometric passports were issued to the public. Since August 2007, the department has issued only biometric passports, which include RFID chips.\n\nIn 2019, the United States Department of State is expected to begin issuing diplomatic and official versions of a next generation of the US biometric passport. The passport will have an embedded data chip on the information page protected by a polycarbonate coating; this will help prevent the book from getting wet and bending, and—should a passport be stolen—the chip will keep thieves from stealing personal information and falsifying an identity. The passport number will also be laser cut as tapered, perforated holes through pages—just one of several components of the \"Next Generation\" passport, including artwork upgrade, new security features such as a watermark, \"tactile features,\" and more \"optically variable\" inks. In other words: Some designs on pages will be raised, and ink—depending on the viewing angle—will appear to be different colors.\n\nAuthority for issuing passports is conferred on the Secretary of State by the , subject to such rules as the President of the United States may prescribe. The Department of State has issued regulations governing such passports, and its internal policy concerning issuance of passports, passport waivers, and travel letters is contained in the Foreign Affairs Manual.\n\nThe responsibility for passport issuance lies with Passport Services, which is within the Department of State, and a unit of the Bureau of Consular Affairs. They operate 26 regional passport agencies in the United States to serve the general public. Additionally, Passport Services opened regional agencies in Atlanta, El Paso, Texas, and San Diego in 2011. Passport applications at most of these locations require that citizens provide proof of travel within 14 days of the application date, or who need to obtain foreign visas before traveling.\n\nThere are about 9,000 passport acceptance facilities in the United States, designated by Passport Services, at which routine passport applications may be filed. These facilities include United States courts, state courts, post offices, public libraries, county offices, and city offices. In fiscal year 2015, the Department of State issued 15,556,216 (includes 1,647,413 passport cards) and there were 125,907,176 valid U.S. passports in circulation. The passport possession rate of the U.S. was approximately 39% of the population in 2015.\n\nIt is unlawful to enter or exit the United States without a valid passport or Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative-compliant passport-replacement document, or without an exception or waiver.\n\nThe use of passports may be restricted for foreign policy reasons. In September 1939, in order to preserve the United States' neutrality in relation to the breakout of World War II, then Secretary of State Cordell Hull issued regulations declaring that outstanding passports, together with passports issued thereafter, could not be used for travel to Europe without specific validation by the Department of State, and such validation could not last more than six months. Similar restrictions can still be invoked upon notice given in the \"Federal Register\", and such notice was issued in 2017, so that passports were \"declared invalid for travel to, in, or through the DPRK unless specially validated for such travel.\"\n\nAs confirmed in \"Haig v. Agee\", the administration may deny or revoke passports for foreign policy or national security reasons at any time, as well as for other reasons as prescribed by regulations. A notable example of enforcement of this was the 1948 denial of a passport to U.S. Representative Leo Isacson, who sought to go to Paris to attend a conference as an observer for the American Council for a Democratic Greece, a Communist front organization, because of the group's role in opposing the Greek government in the Greek Civil War. Denial or revocation of a passport does not prevent the use of outstanding valid passports. The physical revocation of a passport is often difficult, and an apparently valid passport can be used for travel until officially taken by an arresting officer or by a court.\n\nIt should be noted that the lack of a valid passport (for whatever reason, including revocation) does not render the U.S. citizen either unable to leave the United States, or inadmissible into the United States. The United States is a signatory of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which guarantees residents of its signatories wide-ranging rights to enter or depart their own countries. In \"Nguyen v. INS\", the Supreme Court stated that U.S. citizens are entitled \"...to the absolute right to enter its borders.\" Lower federal courts went as far as to declare that \"...the Government cannot say to its citizen, standing beyond its border, that his reentry into the land of his allegiance is a criminal offense; and this we conclude is a sound principle whether or not the citizen has a passport, and however wrongful may have been his conduct in effecting his departure.\" Therefore, even in the absence of a valid passport, U.S. citizens are not denied entry into the United States, though these travelers may be delayed while the CBP attempts to verify their identity and citizenship status. The U.S. does not exercise passport control on exit from the country, so the individual attempting to depart from the U.S. only needs to have valid documents granting him/her right to entry into the country of destination.\n\nTravel of U.S. citizens and nationals around the United States and across its international borders is generally controlled by means other than passports, such as the No Fly List.\n\nUnited States passports are issuable only to persons who owe permanent allegiance to the United States – i.e., citizens and non-citizen nationals of the United States.\n\nUnder the 14th amendment to the US Constitution, \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States ...\" Under this provision, \"United States\" means the 50 states and the District of Columbia only.\n\nBy acts of Congress, every person born in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands is a United States citizen by birth. Also, every person born in the former Panama Canal Zone whose father or mother (or both) was a citizen is a United States citizen by birth.\n\nOther acts of Congress provide for acquisition of citizenship by persons born abroad.\nEvery citizen is a national of the United States, but not every national is a citizen. There is a small class of American Samoans, born in American Samoa, including Swains Island, who are nationals but not citizens of the United States, This is because people born in American Samoa are not automatically granted US citizenship by birth. See Passport message, below.\n\nUnited States law permits dual nationality. Consequently, it is permissible to have and use a foreign passport. However, U.S. citizens are required to use a U.S. passport when leaving or entering the United States. This requirement extends to a U.S. citizen who is a dual national.\n\nSeparate passports are issued to U.S. citizens on official business, and to diplomats, a process followed by all countries. The United Nations laissez-passer is a similar document issued by that international organization.\n\nFew requests for certificates of non-citizenship nationality are made to the Department of State, which are issuable by the department. Production of a limited number of certificates would be costly, which if produced certificates would have to meet stringent security standards. Due to this, the Department of State chooses not to issue certificates of non-citizen nationality; instead, passports are issued to non-citizen nationals. The issued passport certifies the status of a non-citizen national. The certification is in the form of \"U.S. National\" instead of \"USA\" on the front of the passport card, or an endorsement in the passport book: \"The bearer is a United States national and not a United States citizen.\"\n\nAn application is required for the issuance of a passport. If a fugitive being extradited to the United States refuses to sign a passport application, the consular officer can sign it \"without recourse.\"\n\nAn application for a United States passport made abroad is forwarded by a U.S. embassy or consulate to Passport Services for processing in the United States. The resulting passport is sent to the embassy or consulate for issuance to the applicant. An emergency passport is issuable by the embassy or consulate. Regular issuance takes approximately 4–6 weeks. As per \"Haig v. Agee\", the Presidential administration may deny or revoke passports for foreign policy or national security reasons at any time.\n\nPlaces where a U.S. passport may be applied for include post offices and libraries.\n\nDS11 Standard\n\n\nAll applicants using a form DS-11 must appear in person, and pay and additional $35 execution fee, in addition to the cost of their passport book and/or card. In addition, the first time an applicant applies for a passport following or during gender reassignment must also use a Form DS-11.\n\nDS82 Renewal\n\nThe applicant's most recent U.S. passport:\n\n\nThe advantage of the DS-82 passport renewal form is a traveller can mail in the form on their own, and they also do not have to pay the $35 processing fee associated with a DS-11 passport application.\n\nDS64 Lost\n\nLost or stolen passport requires DS64 in addition to DS11 only if the lost passport is valid due to the second passport rule:\n\nMore than one valid United States passport of the same type may not be held, except if authorized by the Department of State.\n\nIt is routine for the Department of State to authorize a holder of a regular passport to hold, in addition, a diplomatic passport or an official passport or a no-fee passport.\n\nOne circumstance which may call for issuance of a second passport of a particular type is a prolonged visa-processing delay. Another is safety or security, such as travel between Israel and a country which refuses to grant entry to a person with a passport which indicates travel to Israel. The period of validity of a second passport issued under either circumstance is generally 4 years from the date of issue.\n\nThose who need a second identification document in addition to the U.S. passport may hold a U.S. passport card. This passport card is used by U.S. citizens living abroad when they need to renew their regular passport book, renew their residency permit or apply for a visa - in other words, when they cannot show their regular passport yet are required by local law to carry valid identification.\n\n\nPassport photo requirements are very specific. Official U.S. state department photographic guidelines are available online.\n\nFees for applying vary based on whether or not an applicant is applying for a new passport or they are renewing an expiring passport. Fees also vary depending on whether an applicant is under the age of 16.\n\nFirst-time adult applicants are charged $110 per passport book and $30 per passport card. Additionally, a $35 execution fee is charged per transaction, but only for first applications and not for renewals. This means that if a person were to apply for the passport book and card simultaneously on the same application, he or she would pay only one execution fee.\n\nAll minor applicants are considered first-time applicants until they reach age 16. Minor applicants pay an $80 application fee for the passport book and a $15 application fee for the passport card. The same $35 execution fee is charged per application.\n\nAdults wishing to renew their passports may do so up to five years after expiration at a cost of $110 for the passport book and $30 for the passport card. Passports for minors under age 16 cannot be renewed.\n\nIf a person is already in possession of a passport book and would like a passport card additionally (or vice versa), they may submit their currently valid passport book or card as evidence of citizenship and apply for a renewal to avoid paying a $35 execution fee. However, if the passport book or card holder is unable or unwilling to relinquish their currently valid passport for the duration of the processing, they may submit other primary evidence of citizenship, such as a U.S. birth certificate or naturalization certificate, and apply as a first time applicant, paying the execution fee and submitting a written explanation as to why they are applying in this manner.\n\n\n\nOn the front cover, a representation of the Coat of arms of the United States is at the center. \"PASSPORT\" (in all capital letters) appears above the representation of the Great Seal, and \"United States of America\" (in Garamond italic) appears below.\n\nAn Official passport has \"OFFICIAL\" (in all capital letters) above \"PASSPORT\". The capital letters of \"OFFICIAL\" are somewhat smaller than the capital letters of \"PASSPORT\".\n\nA Diplomatic passport has \"DIPLOMATIC\" (in all capital letters) above \"PASSPORT\". The capital letters of \"DIPLOMATIC\" are somewhat smaller than the capital letters of \"PASSPORT\".\n\nA Travel Document, in both forms (Refugee Travel Document and Permit to Re-Enter), features the seal of the Department of Homeland Security instead of the Great Seal of the United States. Above the seal the words \"TRAVEL DOCUMENT\" appears in all capital letters. Below the seal is the legend \"Issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services\" in upper and lower case.\n\nIn 2007, the passport was redesigned, after previous redesign in 1993. There are 13 quotes in the 28-page version of the passport and patriotic-themed images on the background of the pages.\n\nA biometric passport has the e-passport symbol at the bottom. There are 32 pages in a biometric passport. Frequent travelers may request 52-page passports for no additional cost. Extra visa pages could previously be added to a passport, but, as of January 1, 2016, the service was discontinued entirely for security reasons.\n\nEach passport has a data page and a signature page.\n\nA data page has a visual zone and a machine-readable zone. The visual zone has a digitized photograph of the passport holder, data about the passport, and data about the passport holder:\n\n\nThe machine-readable zone is present at the bottom of the page and contains \"P<USA[SURNAME]«[GIVEN NAME(S)]«««««\" in the first line and \"[PASSPORT NO. + 1 DIGIT]USA[DATE OF BIRTH + 1 DIGIT + SEX + DATE OF EXPIRATION + 10 DIGITS]<[6 DIGITS]\" in the second line. Both lines contain 44 characters in a fixed-width all-caps font, with the top line ending with enough left angle brackets to fill the 44 character limit.\n\nA signature page has a line for the signature of a passport holder. A passport is not valid until it is signed by the passport holder. If a holder is unable to sign his passport, it is to be signed by a person who has legal authority to sign on the holder's behalf.\n\nPlace of birth was first added to U.S. passports in 1917. The standards for the names of places of birth that appear in passports are listed in volume 8 of the Foreign Affairs Manual, published by the Department of State. A request to list no place of birth in a passport is never accepted.\n\nFor birthplaces within the United States and its territories, it contains the name of the state or territory followed by \"U.S.A.\", except for the U.S. Virgin Islands and American Samoa. For persons born in the District of Columbia, passports indicate \"Washington, D.C., U.S.A.\" as the place of birth.\n\nFor places of birth located outside the United States, only the country or dependent territory is mentioned. The name of the country is the current name of the country that is presently in control of the territory the place of birth and thus changes upon a change of a country name. For example, people born before 1991 in the former Soviet Union (including the Baltic states, whose annexation by the Soviet Union was never recognized by the U.S.) would have the post-Soviet country name listed as the place of birth. Another example is that for birth in the former Panama Canal Zone, \"Panama\" is listed as the place of birth. A citizen born outside the United States may be able to have his city or town of birth entered in his passport, if he or she objects to the standard country name. However, if a foreign country denies a visa or entry due to the place-of-birth designation, the Department of State will issue a replacement passport at normal fees, and will not facilitate entry into the foreign country.\n\nProvisions exist to deal with the complexities of the Greater China Region. Per the One-China policy, the United States recognizes the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China, and acknowledges the Chinese position that Taiwan is a part of China, while considering the status of Taiwan to be undetermined. However, people born in Taiwan can choose to have either \"Taiwan\", \"China\", or their city of birth listed as place of birth. People born in Hong Kong or Macau would have their place of birth as \"Hong Kong SAR\" or \"Macau SAR,\" but the option of listing the city of birth only (e.g. \"Hong Kong\" or \"Macau\" without \"SAR\") is not available. As Tibet is recognized as part of China, the place of birth for people born in Tibet is written as \"China\", with the option of listing only the city of birth.\n\nSpecial provisions are in place for people born in Israel and Israeli-occupied territories. For birth in places other than Jerusalem (using its 1948 municipal borders) and the Golan Heights, \"Israel\", \"West Bank\", or \"Gaza Strip\" is used. If born before 1948, \"Palestine\" may be used. For birth in the Golan Heights, \"Syria\" is used regardless of date of birth. Due to the legal uncertainty of the status of Jerusalem, for birth in Jerusalem within its 1948 municipal borders, \"Jerusalem\" is used regardless of date of birth. In 2002, Congress passed legislation that said that American citizens born in Jerusalem may list \"Israel\" as their country of birth, although Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama have not allowed it. A federal appeals court declared the 2002 law invalid on July 23, 2013, and the Supreme Court upheld that decision on June 8, 2015. In all cases, the city or town of birth may be used in place of the standard designations.\n\nFor birth aboard aircraft and ships, if the birth occurs in an area where no country has sovereignty (i.e. over international waters), the place of birth is listed as \"in the air\" or \"at sea\" where appropriate.\n\nPassports of many countries contain a message, nominally from the official who is in charge of passport issuance (e.g., secretary of state, minister of foreign affairs), addressed to authorities of other countries. The message identifies the bearer as a citizen of the issuing country, requests that he or she be allowed to enter and pass through the other country, and requests further that, when necessary, he or she be given help consistent with international norms. In American passports, the message is in English, French, and Spanish. The message reads:\n\nIn English:\n\nin French:\n\nand in Spanish:\n\nThe term \"citizen/national\" and its equivalent terms (\"citoyen ou ressortissant\"; \"ciudadano o nacional\") are used in the message as some people born in American Samoa, including Swains Island, are nationals but not citizens of the United States.\n\nThe masculine inflections of \"Le Secrétaire d'État\" and \"El Secretario de Estado\" are used in all passports, regardless of the sex of the Secretary of State at the time of issue.\n\nIn November 2017, pursuant to the International Megan's Law, the U.S. Department of State announced that passports of US citizens previously convicted of sex crimes against minors would be endorsed with the message, \"The bearer was convicted of a sex offense against a minor, and is a covered sex offender pursuant to (U.S. law).\"\n\nAt a League of Nations conference in 1920 about passports and through-train travel, a recommendation was that passports be written in French (historically, the language of diplomacy) and one other language.\n\nEnglish, the de facto national language of the United States, has always been used in U.S. passports. At some point subsequent to 1920, English and French were used in passports. Spanish was added during the second Clinton administration, in recognition of Spanish-speaking Puerto Rico.\n\nThe field names on the data page, the passport message, the warning on the second page that the bearer is responsible for obtaining visas, and the designations of the amendments-and-endorsements pages, are printed in English, French, and Spanish.\n\nThe legal driving force of biometric passports is the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act of 2002, which states that smart-card Identity cards may be used in lieu of visas. That law also provides that foreigners who travel to the U.S., and want to enter the U.S. visa-free under the Visa Waiver Program, must bear machine-readable passports that comply with international standards. If a foreign passport was issued on or after October 26, 2006, that passport must be a biometric passport.\n\nThe electronic chip in the back cover of a U.S. passport stores an image of the photograph of the passport holder, passport data, and personal data of the passport holder; and has capacity to store additional data. The capacity of the Radio-frequency identification (RFID) chip is 64 kilobytes, which is large enough to store additional biometric identifiers in the future, such as fingerprints and iris scans.\n\nData in a passport chip is scannable by electronic readers, a capability which is intended to speed up immigration processing. A passport does not have to be plugged into a reader in order for the data to be read. Like toll-road chips, data in passport chips can be read when passport chips are proximate to readers. The passport cover contains a radio-frequency shield, so the cover must be opened for the data to be read.\n\nAccording to the Department of State, the Basic Access Control (BAC) security protocol prevents access to that data unless the printed information within the passport is also known or can be guessed.\n\nAccording to privacy advocates, the BAC and the shielded cover are ineffective when a passport is open, and a passport may have to be opened for inspection in a public place such as a hotel, a bank, or an Internet cafe. An open passport is subject to unwelcome reading of chip data, such as by a government agent who is tracking a passport holder's movements or by a criminal who is intending identity theft.\n\nVisa requirements for the United States citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of United States. According to the 2018 Visa Restrictions Index, holders of a United States passport can visit 174 countries and territories visa-free or with visa on arrival. The United States passport is currently ranked 4th alongside Austria, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal and the UK.\n\nThese are the numbers of visits by U.S. nationals to various countries in 2015 (unless otherwise noted):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43160597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43160597", "title": "Washington Redskins trademark dispute", "text": "Washington Redskins trademark dispute\n\nThe Washington Redskins trademark dispute was a legal effort by Native Americans who consider the term \"redskin\" to be an offensive and disparaging racial slur to prevent the owners of the Washington Redskins football team from being able to maintain federal trademark protection for this name. These efforts have primarily been carried forward in two cases brought before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). While prevailing in the most recent case in which the trademarks were cancelled, petitioners have withdrawn for further litigation now that the legal issue has become moot due to a decision in another case which found the relevant portion of the trademark law to be an unconstitutional infringement on freedom of speech.\n\nThe first action in the dispute occurred in 1992, when Suzan Shown Harjo, President of the Morning Star Institute, with six other prominent Native Americans represented by the Dorsey & Whitney law firm of Minneapolis, petitioned the USPTO to cancel the trademark registrations owned by the Redskins' corporate entity of Pro-Football, Inc. They based their lawsuit on the claim that federal trademark law states that certain trademark registrations are not legal if they are \"disparaging, scandalous, contemptuous, or disreputable.\" The legal battle went on for seven years. In 1999 the PTO judges canceled the federal registration of the mark REDSKINS \"on the grounds that the subject marks may disparage Native Americans and may bring them into contempt or disrepute.\" The owners appealed the decision to a district court in the District of Columbia in \"Pro-Football, Inc. v. Harjo\". The court reversed the USPTO's decision on the grounds of insufficient evidence of disparagement. Subsequent appeals have been rejected on the basis of \"laches,\" which means that the specific Native American plaintiffs had pursued their rights in an untimely and delayed manner. In 2009 the Supreme Court declined to take up the case.\n\nSince 1992, the USPTO has rejected eleven applications for other trademarks that included the word redskins, based on the same reason of disparagement. Some of the applications were made by Pro-Football, Inc., including \"Washington Redskins Cheerleaders\", some for other products.The USPTO rejected an application to register \"Redskins Hog Rinds\" because it \"consists of or includes matter which may disparage or bring into contempt or disrepute persons, institutions, beliefs, or national symbols\". \n\nA second case was filed, \"Blackhorse v. Pro-Football, Inc.\", with younger plaintiffs whose standing might not be hindered by laches. On June 18, 2014, the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB) of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) voted to cancel the six trademarks held by the team in a two-to-one decision that held that the term \"redskins\" is disparaging to a \"substantial composite of Native Americans\", and this is demonstrated \"by the near complete drop-off in usage of 'redskins' as a reference to Native Americans beginning in the 1960s.\" The Trademark board asked two questions in determining disparagement: 1) what is the meaning of the mark as it appears in connection with the goods and services in the registrations and 2) is the meaning of the marks one that may be disparaging. The questions are to be answered in the context of the respective dates of registration of each mark.\n\nEvidence of disparagement submitted by the petitioners in the case include the frequent references to \"scalping\" made by sportswriters for sixty years when reporting the Redskins loss of a game, and passages from movies made from the 1940s to the 1960s using \"redskin\" to refer to Native Americans as a savage enemy. A linguistics expert for the team unsuccessfully argued that the name is merely a descriptive term no different than other uses of color to differentiate people by race. The TTAB also found that the term \"redskin\" refers to Native Americans (rather than having an \"independent meaning\" as the team sometimes claimed) as shown by the costumes worn by both the cheerleaders and marching band from the 1960s until the 1980s, and the native imagery used on the press guides for many years.\n\nIn a press release the trademark attorney for the team stated that they were confident that they would once again prevail on appeal, and that today's decision will make no difference in the continued use of the Redskins name. Plaintiff Amanda Blackhorse, a social worker and member of the Navajo Nation, said in an interview, \"We’ve been through this process for eight years now. We will continue to fight. And, you know, this is not the end for us.\" Some legal experts have opined that the ruling could stick this time.\n\nThe political columnist George Will portrayed the case as an example of overreach by government regulatory agencies, arguing that there was an \"absence of general or Native American revulsion\" toward the name. A sports columnist for \"The Washington Post\" compared the TTAB's actions to \"policing speech\". The cancellation of Federal registration in fact made no change to the team's use of the name, but withdrew the government from the responsibility to regulate the use of the name by anyone. The team retains other rights under common law, but must enforce them without government assistance. However, in the opinion of one intellectual property law firm, the team \"may be hesitant to sue another for infringing its marks because of the risk that a court could possibly determine that the team has no protectable interest in the name because of its disparaging nature\".\nThe Washington Redskins filed its appeal in the Blackhorse case on August 14, 2014, stating their belief \"that the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB) ignored both federal case law and the weight of the evidence\". They also cite infringement of their First Amendment right to free expression. On September 22, 2014 the Native Americans asked that the team's appeal be dismissed because it names them as individuals, which is contrary to federal law, and because the appeal was filed with the U.S. District Court in Alexandria, VA, stating that the Redskins should have filed its case against the patent office in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, DC. In Oct, 2014 Judge Gerald B. Lee rejected the Native American plaintiffs' attempts to have the team's appeal dismissed. The United States Department of Justice entered the case in a limited way by stating that it will defend the constitutionality of the trademark law.\n\nThe ACLU filed an Amicus brief stating that while it found the name Redskins repellant, the government should not be able to decide what types of speech are forbidden, and that the provision of the Lanham Act barring the trademark of disparaging terms is unconstitutionally vague in its wording and has not been applied with consistency. On March 23, 2015, the Attorney General's Office filed a brief addressing the Constitutional issues, stating that as commercial speech, the team name and logo are not protected by the First Amendment, and that there is a large number of cases supporting the cancellation of the trademarks. The brief also stated that the court should also reject the claim that the cancellation of trademarks constitutes an illegal taking of valuable property which is barred by the Fifth Amendment. By opening up an inquiry into constitutional issues regarding limits on disparaging speech in order to protect \"the unique cultural heritage\" of the American Indian population, the case may go well beyond what a football team calls itself. The Navajo Nation filed an amicus curiae brief in support of the decision to cancel the trademarks, due to Pro-Football, Inc. stating in its appeal that individual members of the Navajo Nation such as former chairman Peter McDonald do not find the name disparaging. The brief states that these individuals speak only for themselves, while the tribe’s elected, appointed and traditional leaders speak for the Navajo people and present “unified opposition” to the team name because it is disparaging and has a negative psychological effect on tribal members.\n\nOn July 8, 2015, Judge Lee affirmed the decision of the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board. Judge Lee denied the team's summary judgment motions challenging the constitutionality of the Lanham Act and granted the Blackhorse Defendants' summary judgment motions, finding that \"the evidence before the Court supports the legal conclusion that...the Redskin Marks consisted of matter that 'may disparage' a substantial composite of Native Americans.\" The decision does not bar the team from using the marks going forward, and the order itself is subject to further appeal.\n\nTeam president Bruce Allen expressed surprise at the decision, and that a summary judgement was made by the judge based upon the evidence submitted rather than proceeding to a trial. While the team continues to have certain rights to its trademarks, it must take action to protect those rights individually. The cancellation of federal registration of the trademarks means that the government will no longer take any action against anyone else using the name or logo, such as blocking counterfeit goods from being imported into the country.\n\nOn October 30, 2015 Pro-Football, Inc. filed its appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. In addition to maintaining the validity of all the arguments rejected by both the TTAB and the first appeal, the team has added a list of offensive names that have been given trademarks, thus claiming unequal treatment. The names cited as offensive are mainly sexual or scatological, but do include the racial terms \"yid\", \"dago\", \"gringo\" and \"negro\". Eighteen law professors have jointly filed an \"amicus\" brief in the case stating that the relevant section of the Lanham Act is an unconstitutional intrusion into freedom of expression, and rejecting the TTAB opinion that trademarks are government speech not protected by the first amendment. Ron Katz, sports attorney and Chair Emeritus of the Institute of Sports Law and Ethics at Santa Clara University, expects the team to win its appeal based upon constitutional grounds, while describing the trademark as \"repugnant\".\n\nThese cases prompted a range of opinions from law professors.\n\nBoth the USPTO and Pro-Football, Inc. requested a review by the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) of the same legal issue, the constitutionality of banning a disparaging trademark. The USPTO appealed the decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit which found in December 2015 that part of the Lanham Act is unconstitutional. That case (Matal v. Tam) involved the denial of a trademark for an Asian-American rock band, \"The Slants\". The National Asian Pacific American Bar Association (NAPABA) filed an amicus brief supporting the constitutionality of the Lanham Act, NAPABA President Cyndie Chang stating “Racial slurs should not be recognized as commercial speech through federally-protected trademarks. “Freedom of speech does not require that the government allow racially derogatory terms to be trademarked so that a trademark owner can have exclusive rights to use and monetize such terms.” On June 19, 2017 the court ruled unanimously in favor of Tam, the majority opinion stating \"The disparagement clause violates the First Amendment’s Free Speech Clause. Contrary to the Government’s contention, trademarks are private, not government speech.\" Both the Native American petitioners and the Justice Department have withdrawn from any further litigation now that the Supreme Court has rendered the legal issue moot.\n\n"}
{"id": "25074978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074978", "title": "World Kindness Day", "text": "World Kindness Day\n\nWorld Kindness Day is an international observance on 13 November. It was introduced in 1998 by the World Kindness Movement, a coalition of nations' kindness NGOs. It is observed in many countries, including Canada, Japan, Australia, Nigeria and United Arab Emirates. In 2009, Singapore observed the day for the first time. Italy and India also observed the day. In the UK, it is fronted by David Jamilly, who co-founded Kindness Day UK. In 2010 at the request of Michael Lloyd-White, the NSW Federation Parents and Citizens Association wrote to the Minister of The NSW Department of Education to place World Kindness Day on the NSW School Calendar. In 2012 At the request of the Chairman of World Kindness Australia, World Kindness Day was placed on the Federal School Calendar and the then Minister of School Education, Early Childhood, and Youth. The Hon Peter Garrett provided a Declaration of Support for World Kindness Australia and placed World Kindness Day on the National School Calendar for over 9000 schools. Schools across the globe are now celebrating World Kindness Day and work with local NGOs such as the Be Kind People Project and Life Vest Inside In the USA. In 2012 in Australia, Marie Bashir, Governor of NSW, hosted an event for the first time at Government House to celebrate World Kindness Day and accepted a Cool To Be Kind Award from year 3&4 students. Australian Councils representing over 1.3 million residents have also signed Declarations of Support for World Kindness Australia placing World Kindness Day on the Council Calendar of Events. Events include THE BIG HUG, handing out Kindness Cards, Global Flashmob, which was coordinated by Orly Wahba from USA which was held in 15 countries and 33 cities with its images of the event making the big screens in New York City. Canada celebrates with The Kindness Concert and in Singapore in 2009, 45,000 yellow flowers were given away. In 2017 World Kindness day was also celebrated in Slovenia, organised by volunteering organisation Humanitarcek as part of their project Randomised Kindess.\n\nWorld Kindness Day is to highlight good deeds in the community focusing on the positive power and the common thread of kindness which binds us. Kindness is a fundamental part of the human condition which bridges the divides of race religion, politics, gender and zip codes. Kindness Cards are also an ongoing activity which can either be passed on to recognize an act of kindness and or ask that an act of kindness be done. Approaches are being made to the United Nations by the peak global body, the World Kindness Movement, to have World Kindness Day officially recognized and its members unanimously sign a Declaration of Support for World Kindness.\n\nAccording to Gulf News, \"it is a day that encourages individuals to overlook boundaries, race and religion.\"\n\n {div col end}\n"}
{"id": "2293869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293869", "title": "Writ of execution", "text": "Writ of execution\n\nA writ of execution (also known as an execution) is a court order granted to put in force a judgment of possession obtained by a plaintiff from a court. When issuing a writ of execution, a court typically will order a sheriff or other similar official to take possession of property owned by a judgment debtor. Such property will often then be sold in a sheriff's sale and the proceeds remunerated to the plaintiff in partial or full satisfaction of the judgment. It is generally considered preferable for the sheriff simply to take possession of money from the defendant's bank account. If the judgment debtor owns real property, the judgment creditor can record the execution to \"freeze\" the title until the execution is satisfied.\n\nGenerally, execution is unnecessary for defendants who pay verdicts against themselves voluntarily. However, some defendants ignore judgments against them, and thereby force plaintiffs to employ writs of execution to actually enforce judgments. \n\nIn the United States, not all assets are subject to execution. For example, Social Security income that resides in a bank account is exempt from a levy on a debtor's bank account. Many states also protect an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) from execution as well as unemployment income, but the amount that is exempt may be limited.\n\n"}
