{"id": "24145723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24145723", "title": "2010 Arab Capital of Culture", "text": "2010 Arab Capital of Culture\n\nThe 2010 Arab Capital of Culture was chosen to be Doha, Qatar. The Arab Capital of Culture is an initiative undertaken by UNESCO, under the \"Cultural Capitals Program\" to promote and celebrate Arab culture and encourage cooperation in the Arab region. The Qatari government has begun preparations in many different fields including a US $82 million Cultural Village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9827339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9827339", "title": "Aging in place", "text": "Aging in place\n\nThe U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines aging in place as \"the ability to live in one's own home and community safely, independently, and comfortably, regardless of age, income, or ability level\".\n\nResearch in environmental gerontology indicates the importance of the physical and social environment of housing and the neighborhood (public space), as well as its implications for aging in place.\n\nMost adults would prefer to age in place—that is, remain in their home of choice as long as possible. In fact, 90 percent of adults over the age of 65 report that they would prefer to stay in their current residence as they age. One-third of American households are home to one or more residents 60 years of age or older.\n\nTechnology can be an enabler for aging in place—there are four categories of technology that acts as an enabler—Communication and Engagement, Health and Wellness, Learning and Contribution, and Safety and Security. Caregiving technologies help those who care for older adults provide that care in the most effective way—and include new technologies for smart phones and tablets, as well as websites—such as Caring.com or AARP.org/Caregiving.\n\nThere exist many risks for injury to older adults in the common household, therefore impacting upon their capability to successfully age in place. Among the greatest threats to an ability to age in place is falling. According to the CDC, falls are the leading cause of injurious death among older adults. Therefore, engagement in fall prevention is crucial to one's ability to age in place. Common features in an everyday household, such as a lack of support in the shower or bathroom, inadequate railings on the stairs, loose throw rugs, and obstructed pathways are all possible dangers to an older person. However, simple and low-cost modifications to an older person's home can greatly decrease the risk of falling, as well as decreasing the risk of other forms of injury. Consequently, this increases the likelihood that one can age in place.\n\nSome examples of home modifications include: increased lighting, accessible switches at both ends of the stairs, additional railings, grab bars, nonskid flooring, a hand-held flexible shower head, walk-in bathtubs, and the removal of throw rugs and clutter. In most cases, home modifications can be simple and cost-effective, while simultaneously offering substantial benefits to the individual. Other modifications to the home – especially those that require retrofitting – are a little more costly due to increased complexity of installation. These can include: ramps for accessible entry and exit, walk-in shower, sliding shelves, stairlifts, or even home elevators. Many homes are built or retrofitted with the Universal design model in mind, which makes everything in the home accessible to all people with or without functional limitations.\n\nNaturally occurring retirement communities, also known as NORCS, are another source of support for older adults wishing to age in place. A NORC, though not built specifically for a certain age demographic, occurs where a congregation of residents 60 and older live cooperatively. Some offer recreational activities, preventative health and social services for the community. This model can be supported by local, state, and federal dollars as well as community businesses, neighborhood associations and private foundations.\n\nIn some cases, the caregivers of people who are aging in place seek to persuade them to adopt new technology, which may include learning new skills and changing their daily routine to incorporate the technology. , there is research about how people aging in place try to use new technology when persuaded, but not much research about the extent to which they continue to use it after trying it for some time. Factors which contribute to the decision to try to technology are the anticipated benefits of the technology, the difficulty using it, the extent to which the user feels that harm will come from not using it, the availability of alternatives, support from others in their social circle, and their own personal attitudes and disposition.\n\nMany elders have difficulties with everyday functioning that require modifications to the houses or apartments they live in. There are several reasons why these changes happen:\n\nAging in place can be further defined by:\n\n\nBy working with a person's regular physician and other doctors, an Occupational Therapist (OT) can suggest changes to be made to a person's home in order to uniquely compensate for that particular patient's capabilities and disabilities. By making an appointment and meeting with an Occupational Therapist, a patient is getting a one-on-one based session where the therapist is focused solely on that patient's limitations and is making strategies in order to modify the patient's home, making it safer and letting them keep their independence. OT's will work with contractors and occasionally local groups and volunteers to make home modifications ranging from small changes like better lighting to more extreme changes such as chair lifts instead of stairs. An OT will typically try to make low-cost adjustments in the initial stages, but once again this is based on each individual. OT's also provide services to older adults in community based scenarios focusing in health promotion.\n\nIn Ontario, Canada, aging in place is known as aging at home, and has received considerable financial support from the Ministry of Health and Long Term Care.\n\nAccording to the United States Census, 46 million people age 65+ lived in the United States in 2014 and this same segment of the population will grow to 74 million in 2030.\n\nWebsites and organizations have sprung up all across the nation, in individual communities, states and nationwide to help people to remain in their own homes for as long as possible. Aging in Place is an initiative of Partners for Livable Communities and the National Association of Area Agencies on Aging. It was developed to help America's communities prepare for the aging of their population and to become places that are good to grow up, live in and grow old. They have been working directly with nine laboratory communities to assist them in advancing policies, programs and services to promote Aging in Place. A similar network is the Elder Villages.\n\nSmart homes are also another development to help promote aging in place by integrating a range of monitoring and supportive devices. These homes have technology for physiological monitoring, functional monitoring for emergency detection and response, safety monitoring and assistance, security monitoring and assistance, social interaction monitoring and assistance and cognitive and sensory assistance.\n\nGeorgia Institute of Technology has developed a smart house. This house would help to address issues older adults face when living alone, such as physical and mental decline as well as awareness for family members. The house includes technology such as pendants which understand commands in the form of hand gestures. It could open and lock doors, close blinds, turn on lights, and more. There is also an in-home monitoring system that can inform family members about an older relative's daily activities, health status, and potential problems. This would allow older adults to remain in their own home while still maintaining their independence without their families having to worry about their well being. This is not the only smart house that has popped up.\nThe University of Florida has created one as well. It has smart refrigerators and pantries which can detect food consumption and expired products. Their smart laundry machines can coordinate with the smart closet to notify the resident when it is time to do laundry as well as aid in sorting the laundry. Every room is specially designed with these and many more smart features to aid their living situation.\n\nSimilar technology has been done at the Washington State University, University of Texas, University of Massachusetts, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Missouri, as well as in Osaka, Japan.\n\nIn December 2011, AARP Policy Institute and the National Conference of State Legislatures released a report entitled, \"Aging in Place: A State Survey of Livability Policies and Practices\" to foster aging in place by giving state legislators examples of how laws, policies and programs can support this goal. In addition to such governmental initiatives, livability can be optimized through the incorporation of universal design principles, telecare and other assistive technologies. Assistive technologies include communications, health and wellness monitoring, home safety and security. Semico Research published a report in July 2013 claiming the health and wellness monitoring market for Aging in Place will reach $30 billion by 2017.\n\nThe Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) model was created in the early 1970s in order to meet the chronic care needs of older people through their community. As an assistance program, one must be at least 55 years of age, certified by their state to need nursing home care, are able to live safely in the community at the time of enrollment, and live in a PACE service area. The goal of the PACE program is to care for the chronic care needs of older individuals while providing them with the ability to live independently, or age in place in their homes, for as long as possible. In order to make independent living possible for this population, the PACE program provides services, such as physical therapy, respite care, prescription drugs, social services, nutritional counseling, and much more. Since 2011, PACE has 82 operational programs in 29 states, and is continuing to expand today.\n\nFor many countries in the Middle and Far East, it is part of the cultural beliefs for older adults to age in place. Many children believe it to be their duty to care for their parents as they age and therefore will move in with their parents when their assistance is needed. In many Middle Eastern countries, nursing homes are just recently coming into existence due to cultural and generational shifts towards Western values.\n\n"}
{"id": "80676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80676", "title": "Anarcho-punk", "text": "Anarcho-punk\n\nAnarcho-punk (or anarchist punk) is punk rock that promotes anarchism. The term \"anarcho-punk\" is sometimes applied exclusively to bands that were part of the original anarcho-punk movement in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Some use the term more broadly to refer to any punk music with anarchist lyrical content, which may figure in crust punk, hardcore punk, folk punk, and other styles.\n\nSome protopunk bands of the late 1960s had anarchist members, such as the German blues rock band Ton Steine Scherben and English bands connected to the UK underground, such as Hawkwind, Pink Fairies, The Deviants and the Edgar Broughton Band. These bands, along with Detroit's MC5, set a precedent for mixing radical politics with rock music, and established the idea of rock as agent of social and political change in the public consciousness. Other precursors to anarcho-punk include avant-garde art and political movements such as Fluxus, Dada, the Beat generation, England's angry young men (such as Joe Orton), the surrealism-inspired Situationist International, the May 1968 uprising in Paris, and the CND. Jello Biafra of the Dead Kennedys has cited the Yippies as an influence on his activism and thinking.\n\nA surge of popular interest in anarchism occurred during the 1970s in the United Kingdom following the birth of punk rock, in particular the Situationist-influenced graphics of Sex Pistols artist Jamie Reid, as well as that band's first single, \"Anarchy in the U.K.\". However, while the early punk scene appropriated anarchist imagery mainly for its shock or comedy value or at best as a desire for hedonist personal freedom, Crass along with neighbours Poison Girls may have been the first punk bands to expound serious anarchist ideas. The concept (and aesthetics) of anarcho-punk was quickly picked up on by bands like Flux of Pink Indians, Subhumans, Chumbawamba and Conflict.\n\nWhile anarcho-punk bands have been often ideologically varied, most groups could be categorized as adhering to anarchism without adjectives, in that it embraces the syncretic fusion of many potentially differing ideological strains of anarchism. Some anarcho-punks identified with anarcha-feminists (e.g. Poison Girls), while others were anarcho-syndicalists (e.g. Exit-Stance). The Psalters are a folk punk band with an affiliation with Christian anarchism, though most anarcho-punk bands are generally critical of Christianity. Many anarcho-punks are supporters of issues such as animal rights, racial equality, gay rights, feminism, environmentalism, anti-corporatism, worker's autonomy, the anti-war movement, and the anti-globalisation movement.\n\nAnarcho-punks have criticized the perceived flaws of the punk movement and the wider youth culture in general. Bands like Crass and Dead Kennedys have written songs that attack corporate co-option of the punk subculture, people who are deemed to have sold out, and the violence between punks, skinheads, B-boys and other youth subcultures and within punk itself. Some anarcho-punks are straight edge, claiming that alcohol, tobacco, drugs and promiscuity are instruments of oppression and are self-destructive because they cloud the mind and wear down a person's resistance to other types of oppression. Some also condemn the waste of land, water and resources necessary to grow crops to make alcohol, tobacco and drugs, forfeiting the potential to grow and manufacture food. Some may be straight edge for religious reasons, such as in the case of Christian, Muslim, Buddhist anarcho-punks (see Anarchism and religion for more background).\n\nAlthough Crass initially espoused pacifism, this is not necessarily the case for all anarcho-punks. Despite the broader punk subculture's antagonism towards hippies, the ideals of the hippie counterculture were an influence on anarcho-punk. Crass were explicit regarding their associations with the hippie counterculture, and this influence has also carried over to crust punk.\n\nAnarcho-punks universally believe in direct action, although the way in which this manifests itself varies greatly. Despite their differences in strategy, anarcho-punks often co-operate with each other. Many anarcho-punks are pacifists (e.g. Crass and Discharge) and therefore believe in using non-violent means of achieving their aims. These include peaceful protest, refusal of work, squatting, economic sabotage, dumpster diving, graffiti, culture jamming, ecotage, freeganism, boycotting, civil disobedience, hacktivism and subvertising. Some anarcho-punks believe that violence or property damage is an acceptable way of achieving social change (e.g. Conflict). This manifests itself as rioting, vandalism, wire cutting, hunt sabotage, participation in Animal Liberation Front-, Earth Liberation Front, or even Black Bloc-style activities, and in extreme cases, violence and bombings. Many anarchists dispute the applicability of the term \"violence\" to describe destruction of property, since they argue that destruction of property is done not to control an individual or institution but to take its control away.\n\nMany anarcho-punk bands subscribe to a \"do-it-yourself\" ethic. A popular anarcho-punk slogan is \"DIY not EMI\", a conscious rejection of a major record company. Many anarcho-punk bands were showcased on the \"Bullshit Detector\" series of LPs released by Crass Records and Resistance Productions between 1980 and 1994. Some anarcho-punk performers were part of the cassette culture. In this way, an attempt was made to bypass the traditional recording and distribution routes, with recordings often being made available in exchange for a blank tape and a self-addressed envelope. The anarcho-punk movement has its own network of fanzines or punk zines which disseminates news, ideas and artwork from the scene. These are DIY productions, tending to be produced in runs of hundreds at most. The zines are printed on photocopiers or duplicator machines, and distributed by hand at punk concerts, in radical bookstores and infoshops, and through the mail.\n\nGenerally speaking anarcho-punk bands are often less focused on particular musical delivery and more on a totalized aesthetic that encompasses the entire creative process, from album and concert art, to political message, to the lifestyles of the band members themselves. Crass listed as band members the people who did their album art and live visuals. The message is sometimes considered to be much more important than the music. According to the punk aesthetic, one can express oneself and produce moving and serious works with limited means and technical ability. It is not uncommon for anarcho-punk songs to lack the usual rock structure of verses and a chorus, however, there are exceptions to this. For example, later Chumbawamba songs were at the same time anarcho-punk and pop-oriented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1719651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719651", "title": "Austrian Crown Jewels", "text": "Austrian Crown Jewels\n\nThe Austrian Crown Jewels () is a term denoting the regalia and vestments worn by the Holy Roman Emperor, and later by the Emperor of Austria, during the coronation ceremony and other state functions. The term refers to the following objects: the crowns, sceptres, orbs, swords, rings, crosses, holy relics, and the royal robes, as well as several other objects connected with the ceremony. The collection dates from the 10th to the 19th centuries and reflects more than a thousand years of European history. It is kept at the Imperial Treasury in the Hofburg Palace in Vienna, Austria.\n\nThe most outstanding objects are the insignia of the hereditary Empire of Austria. They consist of the Imperial Crown, the Imperial Orb and Sceptre, the mantle of the Austrian Empire, and the Coronation Robes of the Kingdom of Lombardy-Venetia. The Imperial Crown, Orb, Cross, and Holy Lance of the Holy Roman Empire are also highlights. The first five parts are also called the (secular/worldly treasury) and the ecclesiastical part the (spiritual treasury). The is under the administration of the Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History).\n\nAustria began as a small march and was later elevated to a duchy, then archduchy. The house of Babenberg and later the Habsburg dynasty were the margraves, dukes and later archdukes of this fiefdom. After the death of the last Babenberg duke, Frederick II in 1246, King Ottokar II of Bohemia took over for a while. He was, however, defeated by the King of the Romans Rudolf of Habsburg in 1278, with the help of his sons Albert and Rudolf. Rudolf then installed his son Albert as Duke of Austria. The enthronement ceremony of the new Archduke of Austria was not an actual coronation, but more a ceremony of homage by the estates. In the German language, this ceremony is called the . The estates in parliament swore obedience to their new ruler, and he in turn guaranteed their rights and upheld their privileges. However, in this ceremony sovereign insignia were also used.\n\nThe Insignia consist of the Austrian archducal hat or archducal coronet, which was made for Joseph II's entry into Frankfurt for his coronation as King of the Romans in 1764. The orb and the sceptre were in use as the royal insignia of the Kingdom of Bohemia until the early 17th century.\n\n\nAmong the most important regalia of the Austrian Empire are the following:\n\n\nThe crown and the insignia of the Holy Roman Empire were kept at Nürnberg and were used only for coronation ceremonies. For all other occasions the emperors had to commission personal crowns, which (except for this one) have survived only in illustrations. This crown was originally the personal crown of emperor Rudolf II. It is one of the most important works of the European goldsmith's art. Luckily this personal crown was spared the fate of many other crowns and not broken up after the death of the emperor in 1612.\n\nThe Rudolphian crown has three distinct, principal elements, which symbolise the right to rule: the circlet with its fleur-de-lis mounts in the shape of a royal crown (Rudolf II was the King of Bohemia and Hungary), the high arch descending from the imperial crown, and the golden mitre symbolising the divine right of the emperor to rule. The pearls run in rows like lights. The crown is topped by a bluish-green emerald which symbolises heaven.\nIn the four spherical triangles of the golden mitre, Rudolf is depicted in his four principal offices and titles: as victor over the Turks (\"Imperator\"), his coronation as Holy Roman emperor in Regensburg (\"Augustus\"), his ride up the coronation hill after his coronation as king of Hungary in Pozsony (in Slovak \"Bratislava\", in present-day Slovakia), and his procession at his coronation as king of Bohemia in Prague. The inscription inside the arch reads: (tr. \"Made for Rudolf II, Roman emperor, King of Hungary and Bohemia, in 1602\").\n\nThe choice and number of the stones used have allegorical and mystical significance. Eight diamonds decorate the crown: eight is a holy number referring to the octagonal body of the imperial crown; the diamond is a symbol of Christ.\n\nUnder threat from Napoleon, emperor Francis II dissolved the thousand-year old Holy Roman Empire and proclaimed the Austrian Empire on August 11, 1804. He did not use the crown of the Holy Roman Empire but the old crown of Rudolf II as the crown of the new empire.\n\n\"For more detailed information, see Imperial Crown of Austria.\"\n\n\nAfter Napoleon's downfall and the Congress of Vienna, the Kingdom of Lombardy–Venetia was created under Austrian rule. When emperor Ferdinand I was to be crowned \"King of Lombardy and Venetia\" in Milan on 6 September 1838, the question arose as to the choice of appropriate insignia and coronation vestments. Only the Iron Crown already existed. The rest of the insignia and vestments had to be newly commissioned. When the Austrians were forced to withdraw from Italy in 1859, the vestments were brought to Vienna.\n\nThe Household Treasure contains items from the daily life of the Habsburg monarchs. The collection is vast and only a few highlights are featured regularly.\nThe Cradle of the King of Rome was commissioned by the city of Paris as a gift to Napoleon and his wife Empress Marie-Louise, on the birth of their son Napoleon II. It was built by Pierre-Paul Prud'hon, Henri-Victor Roguier, Jean-Baptiste-Claude Odiot and Pierre-Philippe Thomire in Paris in 1811. The cradle is silver-gilt, and decorated with gold, mother-of-pearl, copper plates covered with velvet, silk and tulle with gold and silver embroidery, and signed on two of the feet: \"Odiot et Thomire\" and \"Thomire et Odiot\". Angels hold a little baldachin over the head, and a bird sits at the foot. Bees, the symbol of the Bonaparte dynasty, decorate the sides. The cradle was more a horizontal throne with all its splendour, and a more practical cradle was also commissioned, which is in the Louvre today.\nAnother notable item listed in the Household Treasure is the Crown of István Bocskay. This Transylvanian prince sided with the Ottoman Turks during their wars with the Habsburg empire. As a sign of their gratitude, the Ottomans sent him a crown, probably a Persian production from the 17th century. After his death, it was brought to Vienna in 1609. It is made out of gold, studded with precious stones and pearls, and laid in with silk. As crowns were not in use in the Ottoman Empire, it was modeled after the Byzantine (closed bonnet-like headdress), similar to those used in the Orthodox church. The crown has two main parts: a broad circlet with a wreath of fleurs-de-lis and a closed, spherical helmet rising from it. The frontal lily bears a Greek cross.\n\nMore items are:\n\nThe Imperial Regalia are the insignia of the Holy Roman Empire. After 1438, the Holy Roman Empire was ruled by the House of Habsburg, with only one brief exception. From 1508, after his election, the German King no longer called for the coronation by the Pope either, but considered himself Roman emperor directly. The crown was probably used for the first time for the coronation of Konrad II; the last time was for Franz II in 1792.\n\nThe regalia were normally kept in Nuremberg, and a smaller part in Aachen. However, with the advance of the French in the French Revolutionary Wars, they were taken away in 1796 and brought to Vienna for safety. They have remained in the Schatzkammer ever since, even after the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806. The cities of Aachen and Nuremberg tried many times, unsuccessfully, to reclaim the regalia. The regalia briefly left Vienna after the so-called \"Anschluss\", when Hitler had them sent to Nuremberg in 1938. After the war they were found by American troops in a bunker and eventually returned in 1946.\n\nThe regalia are made up of many pieces, some of which are more than a thousand years old. It is one of the most important and complete collections of medieval royal regalia. Some of the most important items are listed below:\n\n\nThe collection houses various items of the Order, such as neck chains of the knights, the Potence (Chain of Arms) of the Herald of the order, the liturgical vestments, altars, etc.\n\nThe Ecclesiastical Treasury () contains various pieces such as crosses, altars, reliquaries, icons, holy statues, and other items that were used for prayer by the court and the Habsburgs. The collection is vast, so only a limited number of items are on permanent exhibition, the rest are shown in cycles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35525806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35525806", "title": "Bati language (Cameroon)", "text": "Bati language (Cameroon)\n\nBati is a Southern Bantoid language of Cameroon.\n"}
{"id": "4305749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4305749", "title": "Bestiarii", "text": "Bestiarii\n\nAmong Ancient Romans, bestiarii (singular bestiarius) were those who went into combat with beasts, or were exposed to them. It is conventional to distinguish two categories of \"bestiarii\": the first were those condemned to death via the beasts (see \"damnatio ad bestias\") and the second were those who faced them voluntarily, for pay or glory (see \"venatio\"). The latter are sometimes erroneously called \"gladiators\"; to their contemporaries, however, the term \"gladiator\" referred specifically to one who fought other men. The contemporary term for those who made a career out of participating in arena \"hunts\" was venatores.\n\nAs a means of torturous capital punishment, death by wild beasts was a punishment for enemies of the state, a category which included those taken prisoner and slaves found guilty of a serious crime. These were sent to their deaths naked and unable to defend themselves against the beasts. Even if they succeeded in killing one, fresh animals were continually let loose on them, until the \"bestiarii\" were all dead. It is reported that it was seldom necessary for two beasts to be required to take down one man. On the contrary, one beast frequently dispatched several men. Cicero mentions a single lion which alone dispatched 200 \"bestiarii\".\n\n\"Bestiarii\", as reported by Seneca, consisted of young men who, to become expert in managing their arms, fought sometimes against beasts, and sometimes against one another; and of bravos who, to show their courage and dexterity, exposed themselves to this dangerous combat. Augustus encouraged this practice in young men of the first rank; Nero exposed himself to it; and it was for killing beasts in the amphitheatre that Commodus acquired the title of the Roman Hercules.\n\nVigenère adds two more types of \"bestiarii\": the first were those who made a trade of it, and fought for money. It appears that there were schools in Rome, in which people were trained to fight wild beasts (\"scholae bestiarum\", or \"bestiariorum\"). The second type was where several armed \"bestiarii\" were let loose at once against a number of beasts.\n"}
{"id": "2978260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978260", "title": "Bhishti", "text": "Bhishti\n\nThe Bhishti (Hindustani: भिश्ती, بهِشتی) are a Muslim tribe or \"biradari\" found in North India, Pakistan and the Terai region of Nepal. They are also known as (Shaikh Abbasi) Dhund Abbasi and Saqqa, and use Sheikh Abbasi, or Dhund-Abbasi, as a surname. In Maharashtra, the tribe is often referred to as Pakhali. The Sheikh Abbasi belong to Arab Tribe (Banu Abbas). The title character of Rudyard Kipling's poem \"Gunga Din\" is a Bhisti.\n\nThe Sheikh Abbasi are the traditional water carriers of South Asia, and the word Bhishti is derived from the Persian word \"behesht\", meaning paradise, and the name is said to have been given to the community on account of their ministering to Muslim soldiers at a battle. They were historically the suppliers of water from a goat-skin bag known as the \"mashk\" or \"mashq\".\n\nIn Gujarat, the Bhishti claim to have come from North India during the rule of the Mughal Emperor Akbar. Like the Bhishti of North India, they claim to be Abbasi Arabs, who provided water for the Mughal armies that conquered Gujarat.\n\nThe Bhisti of Maharashtra are unaware of their origin, although many now claim to be belong to the Abbasi community. They are found mainly in the districts of Sangli, Sholapur, Kolhapur and Pune. The community speak the Dakhini dialect of Urdu, as well as Marathi.\n\nA good many Shaikh Abbasi of Delhi emigrated to Pakistan, at the partition of India. They are now found mainly in Karachi, and form a sub-group within the larger Muhajir ethnic group.\n\nThe Bhishti of Uttar Pradesh are a landless community. In addition to carrying water, the community are involved in wage labour. They also supply drinking water during the festivals and religious gatherings. The Uttar Pradesh Bhishti are strictly endogamous, marrying close kin. They speak Urdu, as well as regional dialects such as Khari boli. The Bhishti consist of a number of clans known as \"biradaris\", which are supposedly descended from a common ancestor. Their main biradaris are the Abbasi, Beg, Simri chauhan, Behlim, Faruqi, Turki and Turkmen. Although the Bhishti are found throughout Uttar Pradesh, their greatest concentration are in the Doab districts of Aligarh and Meerut. In Delhi, the Abbasi are employed as water suppliers to the Delhi Municipality. They are also employed as motor mechanics, carpenters, welders, turners, fitters and painters. The Bhishti are Sunni Muslims, although they also incorporate elements of folk belief. Like other Muslim artisan castes, the Bhishti have set up an India- wide caste association, the All-India Jamiat ul Abbas, which acts both as a welfare association, as well as organization involved with lobbying on behalf of the Bhishti in India. The community has been granted Other Backward Class status.\n\nIn Gujarat, the Bhishti are now landless, and are employed as wage labourers. Many are also involved as rickshaw pullers, with a few involved in the manufacturing of bidis, the traditional cigarette of India. The Bhishti now speak Gujarati, and live mainly in Ahmedabad. Like other Gujarati Muslims, they have a caste association. They are Sunni Muslims, with many belonging to the Deobandi sub-sect.\n\nThe Bhisti of Maharashtra are also an endogamous community and marry close kin. They practice both cross cousin and parallel cousin marriages. There traditional occupation of water carrying is now obsolete, and the community are engaged in a number of occupations. A good many are wage labourers, with a small minority who is involved in business. Despite the disappearance of their traditional occupation, community identity remains strong. The Bhisti have set up their own caste association, the Maharashtra Bhishti Samaj. This acts as an instrument of community of welfare, and well as pressure group on behalf of the community.All the (dhund)Abbasi biradaries are the same in the all provinces of Pakistan as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "5606238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606238", "title": "Blue-ribbon panel", "text": "Blue-ribbon panel\n\nIn the United States, a blue-ribbon panel (or blue ribbon commission) is a group of exceptional people appointed to investigate, study or analyze a given question. Blue-ribbon panels generally have a degree of independence from political influence or other authority, and such panels usually have no direct authority of their own. Their value comes from their ability to use their expertise to issue findings or recommendations which can then be used by those with decision-making power to act.\n\nA blue-ribbon panel is often appointed by a government body or executive to report on a matter of controversy. It might be composed of independent scientific experts or academics with no direct government ties to study a particular issue or question, or it might be composed of citizens well known for their general intelligence, experience and non-partisan interests to study a matter of political reform. The \"blue-ribbon\" aspect comes from the presentation of the panel as the \"best and brightest\" for the task, and the appointment of such a panel, ad hoc, is meant to signal its perspective as outsiders of the usual process for study and decisions.\n\nThe designation \"blue-ribbon\" is often made by the appointing authority, and may be disputed by others who might see the panel as less independent, or as a way for an authority to dodge responsibility.\n\nExamples of high-level so-called blue-ribbon panels in the United States would be the Warren Commission investigating the Kennedy Assassination, the 9/11 Commission investigating the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Iraq Study Group assessing the Iraq War and the Clinton Administration's White House Task Force on National Health Care Reform. In each case, the panel did not have authority to indict or legislate, and their brief was to investigate and issue a report on the facts as they found them with recommendations for changes for government policy in the future. The current Blue Ribbon Panel on \"sustaining America's diverse fish & wildlife resources\" emphasizes incentives of industries, businesses and landowners to aid in conservation funding to prevent species from being added to the endangered species list.\n\nThe term has leaked into official usage. From January 29, 2010 to January 2012, the U.S. had a Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future. There are other government and private commissions with \"Blue Ribbon Commission\" in their names. These and others are often referred to simply as \"the Blue Ribbon Commission\" or \"the blue ribbon commission\", creating the potential for confusion.\n\nA blue ribbon panel concerning a police shooting appears in the television series \"The Good Wife\" in season 3 episode 19. It deals with the problems such panels face in order to reach conclusions under political influence.\n\nA blue ribbon panel is also mentioned in the television series \"The West Wing\" in season 2 episode 15. It deals with modifying politically controversial aspects of the US Social Security program such as raising the retirement age.\n\n"}
{"id": "43562712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43562712", "title": "Britons in Mexico", "text": "Britons in Mexico\n\nBritish Mexicans are Mexicans of British descent or British-born persons who have become naturalized citizens of Mexico.\n\nThe British have had a presence in Mexico since the Colonial era. However, the greatest exchange occurred following independence, notably with the Cornish miners in Hidalgo.\n\nDuring the Colonial era, the Spanish restricted the entrance of other Europeans, however, some non-Spanish Europeans were present. In 1556, the English adventurer Robert Thomson encountered the Scotsman Tomás Blaque (Thomas Blake), who had been living in Mexico City for more than twenty years. Blaque is the first known Briton to have settled in what would become Mexico.\n\nDuring his third voyage, the ship commanded by John Hawkins escaped destruction at the Battle of San Juan de Ulúa (1568). However, after becoming lost in the Gulf of Mexico and with a bloated crew, Hawkins abandoned more than one hundred men near Tampico. A group of the men went north (including David Ingram), while the rest went south and were captured by the Spanish. Notable among this group was who wrote a narrative detailing his and the other Englishmen's struggles. They were taken to Mexico City, given care at a hospital and imprisoned. After attempting to escape, they were sold as servants or slaves. Some were able to accumulate wealth by rising to the position of overseers at mines and other operations. However, after the establishment of the Mexican Inquisition, the men were stripped of any wealth and imprisoned as Lutheran heretics. Three of the men were burned, while some sixty were given penance.\n\nVarious British privateers and pirates repeatedly attacked the coastal cities of New Spain, most famously in Campeche. In southern Baja California Sur, a few families retain the English surname \"Green\". This surname is sometimes cited as a legacy of the British pirates who frequented the Cape region. However, the founder was established to be Esteban Green, an English whaler that settled in the region in 1834.\n\nThe first great power that recognized the independence of Mexico was the United Kingdom in 1824, shortly after the sale of mines from Pachuca and Real del Monte occurred. The majority of migrants to this region came from what is now termed the Cornish \"central mining district\" of Camborne and Redruth. Real del Monte's steep streets, stairways and small squares are lined with low buildings and many houses with high sloping roofs and chimneys which indicate a Cornish influence. Mexican remittances from these miners helped to build the Wesleyan Chapel in Redruth.\n\nThe Panteón de Dolores, which became the largest cemetery in Mexico, was founded in 1875 by Juan Manuel Benfield, the son of Anglican immigrants. Benfield fulfilled his father's goal of creating a cemetery after his sister was refused burial in Catholic cemeteries and had to be interred at a beach.\n\nAccording to the 1895 National Census, 3,263 residents were from the United Kingdom.\n\nThe twin silver mining settlements of Pachuca and Real del Monte are being marketed as of 2007 as 'Mexico's Little Cornwall' by the Mexican Embassy in London and represent the first attempt by the Spanish speaking part of the Cornish diaspora to establish formal links with Cornwall. The Mexican Embassy in London is also trying to establish a town twinning arrangement with Cornwall. In 2008 thirty members of the Cornish Mexican Cultural Society travelled to Mexico to try and re-trace the path of their ancestors who set off from Cornwall to start a new life in Mexico.\n\nThe Cornish introduced institutionalized football to Mexico. A plaque was placed at the site of the first game in Real del Monte. The English also introduced other popular sports such as rugby union, tennis, cricket, polo, and chess. Football clubs founded by Britons included the British Club, Rovers FC Mexico and Reforma Athletic Club. The most successful club founded by Britons is C.F. Pachuca.\n\nThe \"paste\" is a pastry with Cornish roots. Introduced by miners from Cornwall who were contracted in the towns of Real del Monte and Pachuca in Hidalgo. The Cornish miners may have also introduced the turnip to Mexico.\n\nThere were 3,589 UK-born residents in Mexico recorded during the 2010 census, up from the 3,172 individuals counted in the 2000 census. The census only requests place of birth (administrative division or country), the government does not ask its citizens for ancestry nor additional citizenship. According to the British Embassy in Mexico, there were about 15,000 British citizens living in Mexico.\n\nBritish immigrants established several institutions of their own, among others:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39184036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39184036", "title": "Bureaucratic drift", "text": "Bureaucratic drift\n\nBureaucratic drift in American political science is a theory that seeks to explain the tendency for bureaucratic agencies to create policy that deviates from the original mandate. The difference between a bureaucracy's enactment of a law and the legislature's intent is called bureaucratic drift. Legislation is produced by elected officials, but is implemented by unelected bureaucrats, who sometimes act under their own preferences or interests. Bureaucratic drift is often treated as a principal–agent problem, with the House, Senate and Presidency acting as principals and bureaucracy acting as the agent. The government seeks to control bureaucratic drift in a number of ways, most notably congressional oversight and procedural controls.\n\nMathew McCubbins, Roger Noll, and Barry Weingast first defined the theory of bureaucratic drift in 1987. They argued that drift is essentially a principal-agent problem that explores \"how—or indeed, whether—elected political officials can reasonably effectively assure that their policy intentions will be carried out.\" The major tenets of the theory include how bureaucrats can manipulate policy when creating bureaucratic agencies and the argument that delay built into the bureaucracy is a good thing, because delay gives government a chance to perfect a policy over time.\n\nIn 1989, Murray Horn and Kenneth Shepsle proposed that coalitional drift, the phenomenon of present legislation being overwritten by the changing views of political coalitions, is a trade-off to bureaucratic drift. The relationship between bureaucratic and coalitional drift is a disputed part of the bureaucratic drift theory.\n\nIn 1992, Jonathan Macey hypothesized that the creation of an agency's structure and design is instrumental in preventing bureaucratic drift. Macey speculates that both current interest groups and Congress benefit from the careful structure and design of a bureaucratic agency. The former is pleased by policies that continue to reflect their preferences while the latter is pleased that both bureaucratic and coalitional drift are protected against. Contrary to Horn and Shepsle, Macey argues that coalitional drift and bureaucratic drift aren't necessarily opposing forces, but that the careful construction of an agency's structure and design can mitigate the costs of both types of drift. He also disagrees with McCubbins, Noll and Weingast on the power of delay to reduce bureaucratic drift, because extra time gives future interest groups and a future Congress the opportunity to insert their own preferences into the proposed policy. This is an example of coalitional and bureaucratic drift working counter to each other.\n\nScholars have identified three major areas that contribute to bureaucratic drift: how bureaucracies are structured, interest groups that lobby bureaucracies, and presidential appointments of bureaucratic leaders.\n\nBureaucratic agencies are often structured so that legislators and their staffers have the opportunity to easily monitor bureaucratic activity. While some scholars believe that structural organization can help lessen bureaucratic drift, other scholars have found that this approach can backfire. When a bureaucracy is permeable anyone can access it, including legislators who were originally adverse to the legislation being implemented. Further, scholars argue that if a bureaucratic agency is designed to represent a single interest, its implementations are more likely to reflect the views of the people they are representing than they are the views of the legislature.\n\nMaking bureaucracies easily accessible means that interest groups can have a greater influence on the outcome of policy implementation. Some scholars believe that bureaucracies can have positive interactions with interest groups. An example of such an interaction is when interest groups support bureaucracies by providing information and facts about areas the bureaucracy is meant to promote or serve. Other scholars, however, have found that interest groups can cause bureaucratic drift. When a bureaucratic agency is infiltrated or corrupted by an external group whose views do not align with the preferences of the legislature it is said that the bureaucratic agency is captured. If an interest group negotiates with a bureaucracy, it can bias the bureaucracy to implement policy that drifts from the original intention of the legislation so the policy instead better serves the needs of the interest group.\n\nScholars consider presidents active in the affairs of \"independent\" bureaucracies. Presidential nominations are sometimes considered a check on bureaucracies because it ensures reliable agent performance. However, presidents can use appointments for political gain. A president may wish to maintain bureaucratic drift if it lies in his or her favor. An administrative agency can be captured by a president when he or she appoints a bureaucratic head that reaffirms bureaucratic drift that is favorable to the president's policies. In cases where bureaucratic drift is present, scholars believe that the president can change policy more rapidly than in a zero-drift scenario.\n\nThrough congressional acts, the legislative branch has the power to curb bureaucratic drift. Such regulation can take the form of statutory control or congressional oversight. Through statutory control, Congress aims to limit bureaucratic drift before it occurs by exerting influence over the organization of a bureaucracy. Congress exerts statutory control by specifying the bureaucracy's agenda, structure, time and fiscal constraints, and procedures while leaving little discretion to the bureaucracies. Oversight, on the other hand, occurs when Congress monitors the actions of bureaucracies and is used to check bureaucratic drift after agencies have acted on policies.\n\nMathew McCubbins and Thomas Schwartz have categorized oversight into two types- police patrol and fire alarm patrol. Police patrol refers to oversight when legislators instigate investigations into bureaucracies and actively search for bureaucratic drift. Such oversight may involve legislators monitoring agencies, reading reports, conducting field studies, and questioning officials. Unlike police patrol, Congress also uses fire-alarm patrol by constructing procedures that allow citizens and interest groups to alert legislators of drift. This method involves less action by congress, and McCubbins and Schwartz argue that it is preferred by legislators as it allows them to devote less time and resources to oversight. However, other scholars criticize fire-alarm patrol by arguing that citizens' complaints may never reach legislators and those that do may be deceitful, thus sounding \"false alarms\".\n\nBecause of the Administrative Procedure Act, the judicial branch is able to check bureaucratic drift through judicial review.\nScholars have argued that the judicial branch checks bureaucratic drift most efficiently when controlling delays of implementing law. Timing is important because the process gives less organized groups time to learn about proposed actions and respond to these proposals.\nThe same scholars point out that ongoing delays caused by judicial review on agency actions may discourage less organized interest, because such groups lack the resources necessary to maintain an effective coalition over long periods of time. Other scholars argue that judicial review also allows less organized groups to hire lawyers to assist in monitoring agency actions.\n\nThe president has the power to check bureaucratic drift through executive orders and by choosing appointees for the highest post of bureaucracies. A president can attempt to affect drift by choosing appointees whose preferences closely resemble his or her own.\nAlso cabinet officials have their own independent evaluation staffs in charge of ensuring that agencies do not drift from government decisions. Monitoring bureaucratic agencies is also possible through the Office of Management and Budget as well as the White House staff. \nSince Congress controls the amount of money appropriated to bureaucratic agencies, monitoring by the Office of Management and Budget is limited. The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, a division of the Office of Management and Budget, can delay agency regulations it deems unsatisfactory.\nScholars argue that one problem of the executive branch working to reduce bureaucratic drift is that it wastes time and resources that could be spent serving constituents.\nAlso other scholars point out that future coalitions may tamper with carefully negotiated bargains. Therefore executives often focus more on work they can immediately benefit from.\n\nWhile some scholars believe that delegation is a necessary part of the American government, and that bureaucratic drift is a risk that must be weighed when delegating implementation powers, others believe that delegation of power to bureaucracy is both unconstitutional and happens too frequently. These scholars subscribe to the Non-delegation Doctrine, and believe that the risk posed by bureaucratic drift is disruptive enough to American politics that delegation must be reconsidered or even eliminated.\n\n"}
{"id": "18829725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18829725", "title": "CTV (Egypt)", "text": "CTV (Egypt)\n\nCoptic TV (CTV) is the official Coptic Orthodox TV station broadcasting in Arabic via satellite to viewers in Egypt and many parts of the world. Tharwat Bassily, a business man, was instrumental in establishing the television network, which was started in 2007.\n\nCTV subsequently started broadcasting in North America and elsewhere. Their headquarters are located in Cairo, Egypt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25187201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187201", "title": "Child pornography laws in Portugal", "text": "Child pornography laws in Portugal\n\nChild pornography laws in Portugal state that such pornography is statutorily criminalised in the Portuguese Criminal Code. \n\nThe age of sexual content in Portugal is, in principle, 14 years of age. The participation of underage persons in pornographic scenes is subject to stricter standards, however, because they are subject to the general regime of adulthood, which was set by the Civil Code at the age of 18.\n\nSection 176 of the Portuguese Criminal Code criminalises the following behaviours: \n\nThis is a complex provision that, in practice, attempts to ban the participation of all persons below age 18 in any kind of scene of a pornographic nature. \n\nThe standard penalty for any of these actions is imprisonment for a period between one and five years. This standard penalty is subject to a number of aggravations and attenuations, however, depending on the circumstances.\n\nThis section of the Criminal Code has raised severe controversy. Its terminology is imprecise since it does not define \"\"pornographic scene\". Also, many have criticised the criminalisation of the \"realistic representation of minors\"\" because they see it a disproportionate restriction of the freedom of expression, a fundamental right protected by the Portuguese Constitution. \n\nThese difficulties caused Portuguese courts to be extremely cautious in applying this section of the Criminal Code. The case law varies widely and there is no legal certainty concerning the application of this provision.\n\n"}
{"id": "17686277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686277", "title": "Chilean Brazilians", "text": "Chilean Brazilians\n\nChilean Brazilians (, Spanish: \"Chileno-brasileños\") are Brazilian citizens of full, partial, or predominantly Chilean ancestry or Chile-born people who reside in Brazil.\n\nEmigration of Chileans has decreased during the last decade: It is estimated that 857,781 Chileans live abroad, 50.1% of those being in Argentina (the highest number), 13.3% in Brazil and 8.8% in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "5968054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5968054", "title": "Clachan", "text": "Clachan\n\nA clachan (, , or , ; , ; , ) is a small settlement or hamlet in Ireland, the Isle of Man and Scotland. Though many were originally kirktowns, today they are often thought of as small villages lacking a church, post office, or other formal building. It is likely that many date to medieval times or earlier – a cluster of small single-storey cottages of farmers and/or fishermen, invariably found on poorer land. They were often related to the rundale system of farming. According to David Lloyd, the Great Famine in Ireland (1845–49) caused such disruption to the social system that the clachans there virtually disappeared; many in the Scottish Highlands were victims of the Clearances. In some cases, they have evolved into holiday villages, or one or two houses have taken over, turning smaller houses into agricultural outhouses. Remains can be seen in many upland and coastal areas. Some are clustered in a dip in the landscape, to protect from Atlantic winds, but others stretch haphazardly along main roads.\n\nThe word is composed of two elements, \"clach/cloch\" meaning \"stone\" and the masculine diminutive suffix \"-an/-án\". It originally denoted one of two things:\n\nThis should not be confused with the Scottish Gaelic plural of \"clach\" which is \"clachan\" \"stones\", a homograph but not a homophone as it is pronounced /kʰl̪ˠaxən/.\n\nIn Ireland:\n\nIn the meaning of \"causeway\", the most prominent example in Irish is the Giant's Causeway, known in Irish as \"Clochán an Aifir\" or \"Clochán na bhFomhórach\".\n\nIn Scotland, clachans can be found in Argyll and Bute, Highland Perthshire and in the Highland Council region but also elsewhere, for example:\n\nIn Canada:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27561383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27561383", "title": "Clitoroplasty", "text": "Clitoroplasty\n\nClitoroplasty is the surgical creation of a clitoris in transgender women (as part of sex reassignment surgery), or restoration in the case of procedures reversing the damage caused by female genital cutting.\n\nWomen and girls with congenital adrenal hyperplasia may also undergo this to correct clitoral size in accordance to the female anatomy or complications of the condition.\n\nAs part of reassignment surgery for trans women, there are several ways to create a clitoris from existing tissue. The most common method in practice is to separate the penile glans from the paired erectile tissues, and reduce in size to simulate that of a cisgender woman's clitoris.\n\nThe success rate for the creation of a clitoris for trans women greatly varies. The most common cause of failure is the necrosis of the tissue from lack of blood supply. The greatest non-lethal health risk is damage to the \"pudendal nerves\" that greatly reduces the chances and intensity of orgasms when severed.\n\nMost trans women's bodies readily accept the relocation of glans penile tissue in the area of a cissexual woman's clitoris. Dr Suporn Watanyusakul uses a modified technique that preserves some erectile tissue to simulate clitoral engorgement and a small amount of foreskin to act as a clitoral hood.\n\nAn alternative technique involved the use of urethral spongiform as a clitoral mound. This allowed for better simulation of female sexual response at the cost of the clitoris being not as sensate as one derived from the glans penis. Urine leakage was a notable complication with this technique.\n\nOlder genital reassignment techniques made no attempt at the creation of a clitoris at all. The glans of the penis was sutured in the most distal (inner) area of the neovagina to simulate a cervix. The late Stanley Biber preferred this method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26921023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26921023", "title": "Concubinage in Canada", "text": "Concubinage in Canada\n\nLargely unrecognised by modern courts, concubinage – the formal position of a mistress maintaining a religiously-sanctioned partnership with a man to whom she is not wed – has a varied history when it has appeared in Canada.\n\nThe term \"concubine\" has many definitions, referring to any illicit lasting relationship with an unmarried woman, or an \"unmarried wife\", or an extra-marital partner to a married man. Much of the political debate has tried to first define the term being used, followed by the legal arguments setting out its place in society.\n\nIn New France, the institution of common-law or informal unions between French men and aboriginal women (known as \"marriages according to the ways of the land\") had an ambiguous legal status. The practice was generally regarded by colonial authorities and the Church as a form of concubinage.\n\nOften the issue of concubinage has appeared in insurance law, when the mistress of an apparent extramarital affair has laid claim, typically as a commonlaw spouse, to the estate of a man who has a legally-wedded wife, or no wife at all.\n\nConcubines in Canada were traditionally native women who were not believed suitable to become full wives to the European settlers. Elizabeth \"Molly\" Brant, the sister of the famed native chief Joseph Brant is believed to have served as the concubine to Sir William Johnson; although his sexual promiscuity was widely known.\nIn July 1867, controversy broke out over the case of Connolly v. Woolrych, wherein a Canadian working for the North West Company had taken a 15-year-old native wife and lived with her for 28 years, before leaving her to partake in a traditional Christian marriage ceremony with his cousin, Miss Woolrich, with whom he lived another 17 years. After the death of Connolly and his \"concubine\" Suzanne, one her many children sued for the right to his estate claiming that the second marriage was invalid and seeking to \"vindicate his mother's name from the stain of concubinage\", while his proper wife argued that he had never been married to Suzanne.\n\nThe court noted that Suzanne and Connolly had omitted the traditional words \"legitimate marriage\" from the baptism of their children by Fr. Turcotte, instead asking him just to refer to their parenthood, but not to any marriage. The court ultimately found that the territory in which he lived with Suzanne had been under native self-rule and therefore not bound to English law and proper registration of marriage would not have been necessary to establish a marriage, but that the native tribes had no marriage ceremonies, and the couple appeared to have \"lived exactly as Christian man and wife, and not as a Christian living with a barbarian concubine\", making pointed reference to the fact that Suzanne had entered a convent after Connolly's \"act of selfish cruelty\" in abandoning their relationship, and was subsequently sent regular stipends for support by Connolly and his wife.\n\nUnder the Revised Statutes of British Columbia, it was legal under the Administration Act, Cap. 5 for a resident of British Columbia to \"support his concubine\".\n\nSince the Canadian military forbade enlisted members from marrying during their service in World War I, individual cases like that of Sgt. W. H. Sharpe roused public sentiment. Sharpe had listed Alma Freed as his wife when he enlisted, yet a year later in 1916 held a marriage ceremony with her after she gave birth to a son. He successfully argued, with the aid of PC 2615, that he had only been regularizing the status of his \"unmarried wife\". In 1919, Member of Parliament Rodolphe Lemieux tried to remove the portion of the Pension Bill that allowed the pension board \"to grant a pension to a woman living with a man as his wife, but not married to him\".\n\nIn the lead-up to the codification of the 1866 Civil Code of Lower Canada, Member of Parliament O'Farrell noted the inconsistency that would allow a man to leave his estate to a \"common concubine\" to the exclusion of his wife, but not to a charitable organisation in the same circumstance. The draft which was finally approved was \"torturous and detailed, emphasizing the sharp contradiction between freedom and morals\", and allowed bequests only to provide such as was necessary to \"maintain\" a concubine and any \"incestuous or adulterine children\". The Code also made it clear that no fault divorces were not permissible, and allowed separation only if the husband demanded it based on his wife's adultery, or that \"a wife may demand the separation on the ground of the husband's adultery, if he keep his concubine in their common habitation\".\n"}
{"id": "1669143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1669143", "title": "Culture of poverty", "text": "Culture of poverty\n\nThe culture of poverty is a concept in social theory that asserts that the values of people experiencing poverty play a significant role in perpetuating their impoverished condition, sustaining a cycle of poverty across generations. It attracted academic and policy attention in the 1970s, received academic criticism (; ; ), and made a comeback at the beginning of the 21st century. It offers one way to explain why poverty exists despite anti-poverty programs. Critics of the early culture of poverty arguments insist that explanations of poverty must analyze how structural factors interact with and condition individual characteristics (; ; ). As put by , \"since human action is both constrained and enabled by the meaning people give to their actions, these dynamics should become central to our understanding of the production and reproduction of poverty and social inequality.\"\n\nEarly proponents of the theory argued that the poor are not only lacking resources but also acquire a poverty-perpetuating value system. According to anthropologist Oscar Lewis, \"The subculture [of the poor] develops mechanisms that tend to perpetuate it, especially because of what happens to the worldview, aspirations, and character of the children who grow up in it\". \n\nSome later scholars (; ; ; ; ; ; ; ) contend that the poor do not have different values.\n\nThe term \"subculture of poverty\" (later shortened to \"culture of poverty\") made its first appearance in Lewis's ethnography \"Five Families: Mexican Case Studies in the Culture of Poverty\" (1959). Lewis struggled to render \"the poor\" as legitimate subjects whose lives were transformed by poverty. He argued that although the burdens of poverty were systemic and so imposed upon these members of society, they led to the formation of an autonomous subculture as children were socialized into behaviors and attitudes that perpetuated their inability to escape the underclass.\n\nLewis gave 70 characteristics (1996 [1966], 1998) that indicated the presence of the culture of poverty, which he argued was not shared among all of the lower classes.\n\nThe people in the culture of poverty have a strong feeling of marginality, of helplessness, of dependency, of not belonging. They are like aliens in their own country, convinced that the existing institutions do not serve their interests and needs. Along with this feeling of powerlessness is a widespread feeling of inferiority, of personal unworthiness. This is true of the slum dwellers of Mexico City, who do not constitute a distinct ethnic or racial group and do not suffer from racial discrimination. In the United States the culture of poverty that exists in the black community has the additional disadvantage of perceived racial discrimination.\n\nPeople with a culture of poverty have very little sense of history. They are a marginal people who know only their own troubles, their own local conditions, their own neighborhood, their own way of life. Usually, they have neither the knowledge, the vision nor the ideology to see the similarities between their problems and those of others like themselves elsewhere in the world. In other words, they are not class conscious, although they are very sensitive indeed to status distinctions. When the poor become class conscious or members of trade union organizations, or when they adopt an internationalist outlook on the world they are, in my view, no longer part of the culture of poverty although they may still be desperately poor.\n\nAlthough Lewis was concerned with poverty in the developing world, the culture of poverty concept proved attractive to US public policy makers and politicians. It strongly informed documents such as the Moynihan Report (1965) as well as the War on Poverty, more generally.\n\nThe culture of poverty also emerges as a key concept in Michael Harrington's discussion of American poverty in \"The Other America\" (1962). For Harrington, the culture of poverty is a structural concept defined by social institutions of exclusion that create and perpetuate the cycle of poverty in America.\n\nSince the 1960s, critics of culture of poverty explanations for the persistence of the underclasses have attempted to show that real world data do not fit Lewis's model . In 1974, anthropologist Carol Stack issued a critique of it, calling it \"fatalistic\" and noticing the way that believing in the idea of a culture of poverty does not describe the poor so much as it serves the interests of the rich.\n\nShe writes, citing Hylan Lewis another critics of Oscar Lewis' Culture of Poverty:\nThe culture of poverty, as Hylan Lewis points out, has a fundamental political nature. The ideas matters most to political and scientific groups attempting to rationalize why some Americans have failed to make it in American society. It is, Lewis (1971) argues, 'an idea that people believe, want to believe, and perhaps need to believe.' They want to believe that raising the income of the poor would not change their life styles or values, but merely funnel greater sums of money into bottomless, self-destructing pits. This fatalistic view has wide acceptance among scholars, welfare planners, and the voting public. Indeed, even at the most prestigious university, the country's theories alleging racial inferiority have become increasingly prevalent. \nThus, she demonstrates the way that political interests to keep the wages of the poor low create a climate in which it is politically convenient to buy into the idea of culture of poverty . In sociology and anthropology, the concept created a backlash, pushing scholars to look to structures rather than \"blaming-the-victim\" .\n\nSince the late 1990s, the culture of poverty has witnessed a resurgence in the social sciences, but most scholars now reject the notion of a monolithic and unchanging culture of poverty. Newer research typically rejects the idea that whether people are poor can be explained by their values. It is often reluctant to divide explanations into \"structural\" and \"cultural,\" because of the increasingly questionable utility of this old distinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22509022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22509022", "title": "Daniel Andreas San Diego", "text": "Daniel Andreas San Diego\n\nDaniel Andreas San Diego (born February 9, 1978) is an American domestic terrorist who is listed on the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists list. He is a straight edge vegan environmentalist and animal liberationist believed to have ties to an Animal Liberation Brigade cell responsible for two bombings in 2003. Andreas is also believed to have ties to Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty.\n\nSan Diego was born in 1978 in Berkeley, California and grew up in San Rafael, California. He attended Terra Linda High School. He took classes at College of Marin and worked at San Rafael High School's radio station, KSRH, listening to heavy metal and rock music. As a young man he gave up drugs, alcohol, meat, and milk products, taking an interest in the straight edge movement and becoming vegan.\n\nAt the time of the bombings he lived in Schellville, California, a small community outside of Sonoma, where he worked as a computer specialist. His landlord described him as \"very nice and personable,\" mentioned his claim to be starting a new business venture of vegan marshmallows made without gelatin, and said that he had never given the impression of holding radical views on animal rights. The FBI claims this was all an act.\n\nSan Diego is described as having ties to Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC) as a well-known San Francisco Bay Area animal rights activist. SHAC is an international campaign set up to close down Europe's largest animal testing laboratory, Huntingdon Life Sciences, a company that performs drug and chemical research experiments on animals. Before the related bombings SHAC targeted HLS customer Chiron and its employees with a series of actions, accusing them of being \"puppy killers.\"\n\nOn August 28, 2003, two sophisticated homemade bombs exploded approximately one hour apart, at the Chiron Corporation in Emeryville, California, causing minor property damage but no injuries. The FBI believes the second bomb was timed to target first responders. Another bomb, wrapped with nails to produce shrapnel, exploded on September 26, 2003 at the Shaklee Corporation in Pleasanton, California, again causing damage but no casualties. The bombs used ammonium nitrate explosives and mechanical timers.\n\nA group called the Revolutionary Cells – Animal Liberation Brigade claimed responsibility via an email message after each bombing. FBI agents admit that they cannot prove San Diego has ties to the emails, but believe he has ties to the group that sent them. The bombing targets were chosen because they were both clients of Huntingdon Life Sciences.\n\nThe agency had San Diego under 24-hour surveillance in 2003. He discovered that he was being watched and on October 6, 2003 parked his car in downtown San Francisco, California, walked away, and never returned.\n\nSan Diego was profiled on America's Most Wanted six times after his disappearance. In April 2009, he became the first domestic terrorism suspect to be added to the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists List. At one point, the FBI believed he was in the Northampton, Massachusetts area.\n\nIn February 2014, as part of the FBI’s National Digital Billboard Initiative, San Diego’s photo, summary of crimes, and the tip line 1-800-CALL-FBI will be featured on electronic billboards throughout California, as well as along the U.S.-Canada border in New York and Washington State. Billboards in Massachusetts, Oregon, Nevada, and Florida will also feature the San Diego case.\n\nIn early 2014, the FBI announced that they had \"credible intelligence\" that San Diego might be on Hawaii's Big Island.\n\nA reward of up to $250,000 USD is available for information that leads to the arrest of San Diego.\n\n"}
{"id": "9369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9369", "title": "Demographics of Equatorial Guinea", "text": "Demographics of Equatorial Guinea\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Equatorial Guinea, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 226 000 in 1950. The proportion of children between the ages of 0 and 14 in 2010 was 39.2%, 57.9% was between 15 and 64 years of age, while 2.9% was 65 years or older\n\nStructure of the population (DHS 2011) (Males 9 043, Females 9 702 = 18 745) :\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Equatorial Guinea not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2011 (DHS Program):\n\nThe majority of the people of Equatorial Guinea are of Bantu origin. The largest ethnic group, the Fang, are indigenous to the mainland, but substantial migration to Bioko Island has resulted in Fang dominance over the earlier Bubi inhabitants. The Fang constitute 80% of the population and are themselves divided into 67 clans. Those in the northern part of Rio Muni speak Fang-Ntumu, while those in the south speak Fang-Okah; the two dialects are mutually unintelligible. The Bubi, who constitute 15% of the population, are indigenous to Bioko Island.\n\nIn addition, there are coastal ethnic groups, collectively referred to as \"Ndowe\" or \"Playeros\" (\"Beach People\" in Spanish): Combes, Bujebas, Balengues and Bengas on the mainland and small islands and a Fernandino community of Krio descended people on Bioko. Together, these groups compose 5% of the population.\n\nTwo small groups of Pygmies also inhabit the country, the Beyele and the Bokuign, the former being located in the Altos de Nsork region. Their population is dwindling, them being subjected to heavy pressure from their neighbours, who don't even consider them as human.\n\nSome Europeans (largely of Spanish or Portuguese descent) – among them mixed with African ethnicity – also live in the nation. Most Spaniards left after independence.There is a growing number of foreigners from neighboring Cameroon, Nigeria, and Gabon. Equatorial Guinea received Asians and black Africans from other countries as workers on cocoa and coffee plantations.In the late 20th century, Equatorial Guinea became home to more than 80,000 Hispanics from Mexico, Central America, and other Spanish speaking nations in the Americas.Other black Africans came from Liberia, Angola, and Mozambique, and Asians are mostly Chinese with small numbers of Indians. Equatorial Guinea also allowed many fortune-seeking European settlers of other nationalities, including British, French and Germans. After independence, thousands of Equatorial Guineans went to Spain. Another 100,000 Equatorial Guineans went to Cameroon, Gabon, and Nigeria because of dictatorship of Francisco Macías Nguema. Some of its communities also live in Brazil, United States, Portugal, and France.\n\nSpanish, French and Portuguese are the official languages and spoken as second languages. Spanish is the language of education, and for this reason a majority of the population (about 88%) can speak it, though only about 10–15% have a high competence in the language. Annobonese speak a Portuguese Creole, named Annobonese, as their first language. Asian migrants and descendants of Europeans settlers (mostly Spaniards, Britons and Portuguese) usually speak their ancestral languages along with Spanish. Non-Equatorial Africans usually speak their native languages and their nation's official languages – English and Igbo for Nigerians; English for Cameroonians and Liberians; French for Cameroonians and Gabonese; and Portuguese for Angolans and Mozambicans. The latter was made an official language since July 13, 2007. 82% of first foreign language learners choose the French language and 18% the English language. The Roman Catholic Church has greatly influenced both religion and education.\n\nEquatoguineans tend to have both a Spanish first name and an African first and last name. When written, the Spanish and African first names are followed by the father's first name (which becomes the principal surname) and the mother's first name. Thus people may have up to four names, with a different surname for each generation.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\"note\": 2002 census results claim 1,015,000 residents, although this most likely was inflated in anticipation for the December election.\n\nPopulation growth rate:\n2.703% (2010 est.)\n\nSex ratio:\n\"at birth:\"\n1.03 male(s)/female\n\"under 15 years:\"\n1.01 male(s)/female\n\"15–64 years:\"\n0.93 male(s)/female\n\"65 years and over:\"\n0.77 male(s)/female\n\"total population:\"\n0.96 male(s)/female (2006 est.)\n\nLife expectancy at birth:\n\"total population:\"\n61.61 years\n\"male:\"\n60.71 years\n\"female:\"\n62.54 years (2010 est.)\n\nReligions:\nnominally Christian and predominantly Roman Catholic, pagan practices\n\nLiteracy:\n\"definition:\"\nage 15 and over can read and write\n\"total population:\"\n87%\n\"male:\"\n93.4%\n\"female:\"\n80.5% (2000 est.)\n\n"}
{"id": "49697356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49697356", "title": "Disability in Russia", "text": "Disability in Russia\n\nDisability in Russia \n\nMany disabled face poor provision of facilities, and disabled children are commonly institutionalized as disability is considered shameful and must be hidden.\nSuch discrimination is widespread even though Russia is a party to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, having signed the treaty on 24 September 2008, and ratified it four years later, on 25 September 2012.\n\nIn the Pre-soviet era Commissariats for Invalid Welfare were responsible for services for disabled people. Welfare co-operatives, mutual aid societies and charitable societies were also involved. Between 1929 to 1932 it was estimated that the disabled population was made up of 43% war veterans, 32% industrially injured and the remainder through accidents and disability at birth. In March 1921 775000 wooden arms and legs for disabled soldiers had been produced. In 1926 there were estimated to be 15 blind persons per 10,000 population. There were up to 21000 disabled people in homes.\n\nRussia has competed at the Paralympic Games as different nations in its history. As part of the Soviet Union at the 1988 Summer and Winter Games. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russia competed as part of the Unified Team in the 1992 Summer Paralympics. They competed for a first time as Russia at the 1994 Winter Paralympics and since then in every summer and winter edition. The 2014 Winter Paralympics was held in Sochi, the first time that Russia hosted the Paralympic Games.\n"}
{"id": "412527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412527", "title": "Edward Hartman", "text": "Edward Hartman\n\nEdward Ernest Hartman (August 25, 1964 – October 3, 2003) was convicted of the 1993 murder of Herman Smith, Sr. and was executed via lethal injection in 2003 by the State of North Carolina at Central Prison in Raleigh, North Carolina. \n\nHartman confessed to the crime but requested a life sentence. According to \"The News & Observer\", five mitigating factors were presented at Hartman's trial, including alcoholism (he claimed to be severely intoxicated at the time of the murder) and childhood abuse. The jury felt that these factors were outweighed by Hartman's theft of Smith's car and money. In seeking clemency, Hartman's lawyers (along with outside groups) argued that the prosecution had used Hartman's sexuality (he was bisexual) in a discriminatory manner, an argument rejected by the courts and by Governor Mike Easley of North Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25901108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25901108", "title": "Green theory", "text": "Green theory\n\nGreen theory in international relations is a sub-field of international relations theory which concerns international environmental cooperation (Eckersley 2010).\n\nThe majority of scholarly literature in international relations approaches environmental problems from a liberal institutionalist perspective focusing on international environmental regimes.\nThere is a relationship between Globalization and Environment which is among the forces behind the birth of green theory. However a unified theory is missed.\nControversy of the human species as world managers where \"conservation\" is \"right use\" of nature and \"preservation\" is \"right non-use\" of nature and humanity as protecting nature against itself with little allowance for ecological dynamics is part of the cause for some \"essentially contested concepts\" where even \"sustainable development\" is sometimes contested.\n\nThe \"collective action problem\" is central to cooperation. It is discussed by Michael Laver (1997) in \"Private Desires, Political Action\" with examples of \"The Prisoner's dilemma\" and the \"Tragedy of the commons.\" The disconnect between individual goals and group goals suggests a role for leadership and more than simple management. Green theory has championed consensus decision making as best it can be done. Empowering the disempowered is also a strand in Green theory.\n\nInteractions are important to Green theory. From Stephen W. Littlejohn's (1983) book \"Theories of Human Communication\" (2nd ed.) we find a discussion of macronetworks with members and links. The five properties of links are: (1) symmetry (how much who relates to who or how equal the communication is); (2) strength (how often who relates to who); (3) reciprocity (agreement between members of links); (4) content (what the area or context of communication is); and, (5) mode (what the means or context of communication is). [Littlejohn is actually referring to Richard V. Farace, Peter R. Monge, and Hamish Russell from \"Communicating and Organizing\" (Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1977)] Network communication is a bridge to appreciating the interdependence of ecosystems.\n\n\"International Regimes\" is a classic IR work edited by Stephen D. Krasner (1983) which discusses emergent norms in complex (international) systems. International regimes are deemed to be a collective solution to problems of turbulence and unpredictability. On the micro level, Marshall Rosenberg's \"Nonviolent Communication\" (2nd ed., 2003) suggests people must agree on the description of the situation, agree on the stakeholders' feelings, agree on the stakeholders' needs, and then agree on the stakeholders' requests in order for healthy negotiation to be possible. In veridical conflict, when it occurs, there may not be a mutually satisfactory resolution possible.\n\nThis field studies the impact of IPE (international political economy) and it has been widely accepted as an area within IR theory. The strongest protesters of such irregular emigration movements are the ecofeminists who tend to gather once a month to hold non-peaceful and noisy demonstrations. \n\nJ. K. Galbraith said in \"The Age of Uncertainty\" that economics entails understanding the relationship of people with land. Green theory uses case studies of people living on land to better understand economy. Later, the idea of \"ecological footprint\" developed.\n\nGreen leaders use suasion, persuasion, exemplification and all the techniques of public relations and propaganda to shift the publics' tastes towards green decisions both in markets and in other areas where decisions, goals, or choices are being made. As Fraser P. Seitel (1989) in \"The Practice of Public Relations\" says there are many \"publics\" and many choices. Places or contexts of choices matter too. Green theory rewrites the rules for consumers. David R. Boyd & David T. Suzuki's (2008) \"Green guide\" comes to mind. \n\nThe public as workers is critical to Green theory. The greening of the labour market, workplace, and industry is important. One wonders, as democracy is valued in Green theory, what the appropriate attitude towards \"economic democracy\" would be. Robert A. Dahl (1985) in his \"A Preface to Economic Democracy\" argues weakly in favour of workplace democracy. If the factors of production are land, labour, capital, and entrepreneurship, it is unclear how these can be democratically related and what kind of property rights might survive. \n\nJoseph Heath (2009), in \"Filthy Lucre,\" describes \"capitalism\" as a \"nexus of relationships\" (as between suppliers, producers, consumers, marketers, regulators, for example). Green theory is complex in its management of policy networks. The New Age idea of \"segmented, polycentric, integrated networks\" (SPINs) suggests a possible complex replacement for capitalism. In public administration the idea of \"governance\" systems addresses some of the complexity. \n\nPierre Teilhard de Chardin's idea of \"noosphere\" as a connection and link thick environment where multilateral group, system, organization, and network interrelations can instantiate human wisdom is also possible for Green theory. \n\n\"Globalization\" is commonly understood to involve cross-border flows. This can be transportation of material or people, transmission of information or ideas, transfer of capital or ownership, transactions altering status, transmissions of disease and disease causing organisms, trade in goods and services, transfers of technology or industrial arts and products, and may be considered a stage of \"modernization\" and/or \"development.\" Global flows are to be monitored and controlled through many local actions. For this 'globalization' to work, local decisions must successfully restrict the perverse effects of global flows. A margin for error must be maintained. \n\nFree trade appears to be focused upon free markets. Yet, even Raymond Vernon (1977) in \"Storm Over the Multinationals\" suggests that a multinational corporation could serve as a non-tariff barrier to free trade. You could go further and suggest that concentrations of purchasing power and control over property rights might serve to restrict \"free trade\" even if we do not wish to have the total equality of no concentrations of wealth. Free markets are not free if those who have wealth can control flows and restrictions as well as the litigation over disputes. \n\nControl over energy and power, likewise, serves to replace the slave trade. \"Nature\" is never clearly enough defined. Natural resources and natural flows of energy and nutrients are neither entirely free nor entirely artificial. No one, apparently, wants total energy entropy (insofar as it can be delayed). It seems that a mixed economy may be best suited to the \"natural\" as complete rational planning and complete free markets are no friends to nature. This assumption is, of course, quite contestable.\n\nOne aspect of Green IR theory is normative theorising such as bioregionalism. The idea of a \"land ethic\" and the belief that people can \"think globally and act locally\" have given hope that norms can be directly or indirectly derived from nature. \n\nFuturology and counterfactual reasoning, such as that promoted by Philip E. Tetlock & Aaron Belkin (1996) in \"Counterfactual Thought Experiments in World Politics,\" may just as easily produce dystopias as utopias. Environmental security, while still questionable, is at least more basic than human security. Likewise, \"ecology\" (the study of households or habitats) has priority over \"economics\" (the applied laws of households or habitats). \n\nThe fit between people and their environments brings up the topic of positive and negative eugenics which has been a background challenge in Green theory. Healthy and unhealthy have seemed to replace the theology of good and evil. Holistic health is a popular part of green theories combined with green living. Public health with prevention and health promotion are more consistent with Green theory too. \n\nThe non-violent thread in Green theory has led to an anti-hierarchical standard which can seem to be anarchical in this theory. Eco-feminists may hold anti-hierarchical views. Living wages and more equality may be emphasized. Ernest Callenbach's \"Ecotopia\" seems to almost be a matriarchal totalitarianism. The choices and liberties can be shifted in Green theory. \n\nTurn taking among Green leaders means sometimes the responsibilities of power and sometimes being the follower. All this within groups attempting consensus with group skills added to communication skills which can be overpowering.\n\nA behavioural space with contingencies, classical and operant conditioning, plus systems of semiotic systems with underlying structures, even for individual cells, organisms, groups, and all conceivable units of analysis could certainly be overpowering. It would seem to be a case of Michel Foucault's \"governmentality\" where both individuals and populations are simultaneously controlled. And the governmentality would grow and evolve. \n\nGrowth of any particular species can be in numbers, qualities, adaptations (fitting in), and adjustments (changes to environment) which makes for complex practical syllogisms. As Thomas Szasz said in \"Ideology and Insanity\": \"stars move, machines function, animals behave, and people conduct themselves.\" It is an idea of \"ecopsychology\" that contact with nature promotes mental health and wellness. \n\nAccording to Morris Berman there is a \"Shadow Side of Systems\" from the Journal of Humanistic Psychology (Winter 1996). Just as democracy can make for a tyranny of the majority so can systems thinking provide for authoritarianism and/or paternalism. A case study of Green theorists' dealing with the issue of \"abortion\" can illustrate this matter. Life and choice are both important to Green theorists. Disconnecting the conception decision from the birth decision can have eugenic consequences. Perhaps females could take charge of reproductive technology but then they would be in charge of eugenics too. \n\nThe compromises of living where you like and liking where you live; of doing what you like and liking what you do; and, of having the child you like and liking the child you have -- these do not make choices easier. Do we love the people we love and love the people we love -- both? Green theory does not always distinguish public space from private space. As for political ideologies and Green theory, Timothy O'Riordan (1990) in \"Major Projects and the Environment\" in Geographical Journal, indicates there to be \"dry greens\" (perhaps conservative and market centered), \"shallow greens\" (perhaps liberal and sustainable development centered), and \"deep greens\" (perhaps radical and ecosystem or earth centered). This, of course, may be an oversimplification. \"Dry Greens\" may be the least appreciated environmentalists and might not even be given that title. However, a very good economic treatment is given in \"The Plundered Planet\" by Paul Collier (2010). Collier may put the plight of the bottom billion (poorest and worst off people) on the planet above environmentalism. He believes protecting the viability of the planet and the bottom billion must both be done. Green theorists, of course, emphasize equality such that the bottom billion are equal to the top billion. How that works out is challenging. If the planet does need a billion fewer people, then there is no agreed upon way of choosing. Market solution would include rising food prices and only those with ability to pay survive. Each culture, religion, and academic discipline has developed and produced different solutions to the \"Who survives?\" conundrum.\n\nGreen IR approaches have challenged traditional approaches to security in international relations. This has included the concept of environmental security which has involved the 'securitization' of environmental threats. \n\nWhile Green theory embraces non-violence and condemns the toxicity of much military materials, civilian defence and protest have long been used as tactics. Appropriate technology, even for military use, is becoming more preferred. Green theorists may dispense with much strategic security planning as letting the laws of nature take their course. \n\nJohn H. Storer in \"The Web of Life\" (1953, 1956, pp. 76 – 77), mentions some of the laws of nature as: adaptation, succession, multiplication, and, control, such that a species occupies a niche with a carrying capacity and limiting factors. This is the long view of strategy. Strategy is assumed to be phylogenetic and tactics more ontogenetic (as may be morals and ethics respectively). Families and nations may be similar and different. \"The Advent of Netwar\" by John Arquilla & David Ronfeldt (RAND, 1996) suggests that fractal thinking may highlight fractal warfare. Swords and spears, the tools of regular warfare, may be changed to plows and pruning-hooks, the tools of eugenic management. \n\nAs for the short view, private security or acting locally may be of interest. Harvey Burstein (1994) in \"Introduction to Security\" gives five items that security staff must control: crime, waste, accidents, errors, and unethical practices. Such is the short view of tactics—albeit from an environmental perspective. Even the best \"securitization\" cannot eliminate error. The items that security controls also have their carrying capacities and limiting factors. Control may interact with higher level controls and counter-controls like a flow chart. \n\nAgenda 21, that optimistic document for the beginning of the Twenty-first Century, seeks to control all accidents so that human beings can live in safety. It failed, but it can provide a guide for those who think globally and act locally. The move from human centered to ecosystem centered thinking and feeling may, ironically, be an improvement to humanity.\n\nAn area of challenge to all IR theories is secrecy and surveillance along with control of information. Monitoring is necessary for protection and control (security) but sometimes secrecy is necessary too. Realism, capitalism, and socialism could not handle secrecy well and it remains to be seen whether Green theory's handling of secrecy could not create worse disasters. Transparency and democracy may not be appropriate political technologies for all decisions.\n\nFurther discussion of power, secrecy vs. espionage, persuasion vs. evaluation, and information control is in \"Policing Politics: Security Intelligence and the Liberal Democratic State\" by Peter Gill (1994). Citizen policing of politics goes with empowering the disempowered and consensus. Perhaps \"subsidiarity\" may be needed with a secret \"black box\" at the appropriate level of decision making which is always the lowest possible.\n\nIt would be a good exercise in Green Theory to consider Derrick Jensen's \"Twenty Premises\" from his books \"Endgame: Volumes I & II\" (2006) with \"Agenda 21\" and its efforts to control humanity and the environment to produce security. Is a graceful transition from the present world to a greener future world possible? How possible?\n\nA critical point in the history of Green Theory is 1992 when, of course, the Rio Conference happened. Also Biodiversity and Global Warming became more important. Emphasis may have moved from local ecosystems to the global ecosystem. One book published at this time in which the author seeks perhaps to rescue Greens from themselves and provide a revisionist Green policy is \"Green Political Theory\" by Robert E. Goodin (1992). It was a timely criticism. He compares a capitalist theory of value based upon consumer satisfaction; a socialist theory of value based upon labour; and, a Green theory of value based upon natural resources. \n\nHe also discusses the weakness for international organization of a highly decentralized political system. Perhaps in answer, \"Leaders lead; but none too much,\" might provide a solution to Michel's 'iron law of oligarchy' where leaders can do job rotation with teaching environmental education, group decision-making, policy-making, as well as with other leaders, taking turns with administrative and diplomatic tasks. Much leaders make for much participation and many types of participation. Therefore diversity is increased. \n\nGoodin (1992) also discusses norms or values by focusing on \"goods\" and \"the good\" as well as \"agency\" which is more in the direction of \"the right.\" Such a critical analysis of Green Theory at what is also a critical point in history is invaluable.\n\nAn obvious modern point about environment and security is distribution of risk and even global flows of risk. If the rich are not to be protected too much, then it also might follow that the poor are not to be protected too much as well. Proper balance is not the mere matter of comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable. Ulrich Beck and others have written on the \"risk society\" which seems to enter into the discussions both of economy and security. Subsidiarity may include levels of government which share authority, for example, national government, religious or organizational government, family government, and individual government. There would not seem to be a monopoly over use of force. There may be a tendency for eco-anarchism here. \n\nJust as we may use computer software to determine such things as financial crime and corruption, we might also use actuarial tables to determine unjust distribution of risk. We would have to find ways to prevent \"fait accompli\" acts of the powerful to the less powerful. This goes far beyond environmental impact statements or even studies. It is a whole fabric with the socio-economic structures.\n\nSolving the problem of a gentle transition to a green future can be difficult. Between Derrick Jensen's \"Endgame 1 & 2\" and Donald R. Liddick's (2006) \"Eco-Terrorism\", it can seem like opposite sides must be taken. Liddick's book was published by Praeger Publishers which may have a reputation as being influenced by Intelligence agencies. Of course, there is not necessarily anything wrong with patriotism and good intelligence writing is often better than standard academic publishing. \"Eco-Terrorism\" could, however, be a bit of a propaganda piece. It might knock down weak forms of green arguments to establish those arguments of a more capitalist nature supporting free markets and corporations. Praeger Publishers may also have published \"Crimes Against Nature\" also by Donald R. Liddick (2011) and \"The Rise of the Anti-Corporate Movement\" by Evan Osborne (2007). If Green theorists are to take consensus decision-making quite seriously, then bringing the environmental skeptics on board to the gentle transition becomes very important to a Green future. \n\nThe question of whether (national) government alone must have a monopoly over the legitimate use of force has been contested for some time. Should national government also have a monopoly of the use of fear, violence, and terror and would this ever be legitimate? Can dissent, protest, and civil disobedience and holding the viewpoint of subversion of the current system be justified? Is the \"right to rebel\" really an euphemism for the \"right to revolt\"? It seems one other book: \"Crime Wars: The Global Intersection of Crime, Political Violence, and International Law\" by Paul Battersby, Joseph M. Siracusa, and Sasho Ripiloski (2011) might be worth reading. But, books like \"Folks, this ain't normal\" by Joel Salatin (2011) and \"Green is the New Red\" by Will Potter (2011) may also be worth reading. \n\nGreen theorists sometimes shift the meanings of \"rights\" and \"freedoms\" but a book to be published this year by Praeger Publishers about \"Eco-psychology\" (in two volumes) by Darlyne G. Nemeth, Robert B. Hamilton, and Judy Kuriansky, according to their catalogue would seem to shift some of the standard Green vocabulary. Even \"eco-terrorism\" is a use of a label with often pejorative connotations. It seems there is a battle going on over the future of Green discourse. We may have to rethink definitions for \"genocide\" and \"ecocide\" with both broad and narrow definitions for each and how much powers and authorities whether those of people and families, organizations (religious or otherwise), governments (at all levels), or businesses can be criminalized and especially where and how prevention can best be practiced. The Encyclopedia of Earth website is apparently neutral and non-controversial. Green theory has many essentially contested concepts. Encyclopedia of Earth may also be in the process of updating its ideas of biosecurity and bioterrorism. Antonio Gramsci's ideas of \"war of manoeuvre\" (real war in physical space) and \"war of position\" (war of words or what in Michel Foucault's terms could be a discussion and shaping of a discourse space) are pertinent to what is currently happening. John Stuart Mill's \"On Liberty\" applies to discourse rather well for a standard 'liberal' approach which, itself, is not neutral. It is supposed that Green thinkers clearly realize that much discussion need not lead to consensus and there can still remain veridical conflicts. Whether the 'soft energy path' and a 'steady state economy' can actually be made to work require further theory and practice too. The making of a fait accompli by mass ecocide or mass genocide (whether these be sudden or gradual) can hopefully be avoided.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12056581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12056581", "title": "Hoa Hakananai'a", "text": "Hoa Hakananai'a\n\nHoa Hakananai'a is a \"moai\" (Easter Island statue) housed in the British Museum in London. It was removed from ‘Orongo, Rapa Nui (Easter Island) in November 1868 by the crew of the British ship , and arrived in England in August 1869. Though relatively small, it is considered to be typical of the island’s statue form, but distinguished by carvings added to the back, associated with the island birdman cult. It has been described as a \"masterpiece\" and \"without a doubt, the finest example of Easter Island sculpture\".\n\nThe statue was identified as Hoa Hakananai'a by islanders at the time it was removed, the British crew first recording the name in the form Hoa-haka-nana-ia or Hoa-haka-nama-ia. It has been variously translated from the Rapa Nui language (Polynesian) to mean \"breaking wave\", \"surfriding\", \"surfing fellow\" or \"master wave-breaker\"; and \"lost or stolen friend\", \"stolen friend\" or \"hidden friend\" or \"doing robberies/mockeries friend\".\n\nWhen recorded in 1868, Hoa Hakananai'a was standing erect, part buried inside a freestone ceremonial \"house\" in the ‘Orongo village at the south-western tip of the island. It faced towards an extinct volcanic crater known as Rano Kau, with its back turned to the sea. It may have been made for this location, or first erected elsewhere before being moved to where it was found.\n\nMost statues on Rapa Nui are of a reddish tuff, but Hoa Hakananai'a is made from a block of dark grey-brown flow lava. Though commonly described as basalt, quarried near to where the statue was found, there is no record of petrological analysis to confirm this. It stands high, is across, and weighs 4.2 tonnes.\n\nThe base of the statue, now concealed in a modern plinth, may originally have been flat, and subsequently narrowed, or was rough and tapering from the start.\n\nTypical of Easter Island \"moai\", Hoa Hakananai'a features a heavy brow, blocky face with prominent nose and jutting chin, nipples, thin, lightly angled arms down the sides and hands reaching towards the stomach, which is near the base. It has a raised Y-shape in the centre of the chin, eyes hollowed out in a way characteristic of statues erected elsewhere on the island on ceremonial \"ahu\" platforms, and long, rectangular stylised ears. A line around the base of the neck is interpreted as representing the clavicles; there is a semi-circular hollow for the suprasternal notch.\n\nIn its original form, the back is thought to have been plain, apart from a \"maro\", a belt or girdle, which consists of three raised lines and a circle above, and an M on a vertical line below. Near the base are slight indications of buttocks.\n\nThe top of the head is smooth and flat, and could originally have supported a \"pukao\", a cylindrical stone \"hat\". A flat round stone found near the site of the statue may have been such a hat, or, if the base was flat, a bed plate on which the statue once stood.\n\nNo Easter Island statues have been scientifically dated, but statue making in general is said to have begun by at least 1000 CE, and occurred mostly between 1300 and 1500 CE. Manufacture is said to have ended by 1600 CE, when islanders began to topple them.\n\nEpisode 70 of the 2010 BBC Radio 4 series A History of the World in 100 Objects describes the statue as being from 1000-1200 CE.\n\nThe Y on the chin and the clavicles are rare on Easter Island statues, and said to be late innovations.\n\nThe back of the statue, between the \"maro\" and the top of the head, is covered with relief carvings added at an unknown time after the statue was made. They are similar in style to petroglyphs on the native rock around the ‘Orongo village, where they are more common than anywhere else on the island.\n\nEither side and above the ring on the \"maro\" are two facing birdmen (\"tangata manu\"), stylised human figures with beaked heads said to represent frigate birds. Above these, in the centre of the statue’s head, is a smaller bird said to be a sooty tern (\"manutara\"). Either side of this is a ceremonial dance paddle (\"ao\"), a symbol of male power and prestige. Along the edge of the left ear is a third paddle, because of its smaller size possibly a \"rapa\" rather than an \"ao\", and on the right ear a row of four vulva symbols (\"komari\"). Y-shaped lines drop down from the top of the head.\n\nWhen first seen by Europeans, the carvings were painted red against a white background. The paint was totally or mostly washed off when the statue was rafted out to HMS \"Topaze\".\n\nPrecise reading of these designs varies. The birdmen are popularly interpreted as Makemake, a fertility god and chief god of the birdman cult. This cult, said to have replaced the older statue cult, was recorded by early European visitors.\n\nIt involved an annual competition to retrieve the first egg laid by migrating sooty terns. The contest was held at ‘Orongo, and the winning man became Makemake’s representative for the following year. The last ceremony is thought to have been held in 1866 or 1867.\n\nAfter the most intensive survey of the statue to date, a more detailed interpretation of the carvings has been proposed. The new survey, which followed an as yet unpublished laser scan survey, comprised a combination of Photogrammetry and Reflectance Transformation Imaging, used to create high-resolution digital images in “two and a half” and three dimensions.\n\nThis allowed several details to be clarified. The Y-shaped lines at the top of the head are the remnants of two large \"komari\", partly removed by the other carvings, which were added at a later date. The small bird has a closed beak, not open as had often been described, and the foot of the left birdman has five toes, not six. There is a small, shallow carving below the left ear, which could be a \"komari\" or the head of an \"ao\". The beak of the right birdman comes to a short, rounded end, not a long pointed tip; the latter reading of the digital models was supported by a new interpretation of a photo of the statue taken in 1868.\n\nThe short beak has been contested, and in turn the original study has been defended. In other studies, it has been proposed that the existing carvings on the back all but conceal four earlier birdman figures, and that an engraved birdman fills the area of the front between the nipples and the hands. The latter was rejected, and defended. None of this can be seen in the new digital models.\n\nThe archaeologists behind the new digital study also proposed a new way to read the main composition. It was suggested that the elements worked together to portray the birdman ceremony, with the left birdman figure male, the right female (two of the four “egg gods”), and the bird above them their new-hatched fledgling. “Meanwhile the entire statue has become Makemake, its face painted white… in the manner of the human birdman”. One group of critics described this interpretation as “interesting, thought provoking and even somewhat poetic”, but, while “greatly impressed by the work”, rejected the proposals.\n\nThe archaeologists behind the new digital study have released online viewers of the Photogrammetry model captured and the Reflectance Transformation Imaging datasets. The latter represent the front,lower back, middle back, upper back and the back of the head. These viewers allow for the dissemination of the results to stimulate discussion.\n\nHoa Hakananai'a was found in November 1868 by officers and crew from the British Royal Navy ship . When first seen, it was buried up to about half its height or even more. It was dug out, dragged down from Rano Kau on a sledge, and rafted out to the ship.\n\nIt was photographed while HMS \"Topaze\" was docked in Valparaiso, Chile, from back and front. At that time Commodore Richard Ashmore Powell, captain of the \"Topaze\", wrote to the British Admiralty offering the statue as a gift.\n\nHMS \"Topaze\" arrived in Plymouth, England, on 16 August 1869. The Admiralty offered the statue to Queen Victoria, who proposed that it should be given to the British Museum. It was mounted in a plinth and exhibited outside the museum’s front entrance, beneath the portico. During the Second World War, it was taken inside, where it mostly remained until 1966. In that year it was moved to the museum’s then Department of Ethnography, which had separate premises in Burlington Gardens. It returned to the British Museum site in 2000, when it was exhibited on a new, higher plinth in the Great Court, before moving to its present location in the Wellcome Trust Gallery (Room 24: Living and Dying). It has been suggested that the statue was originally erected at a slightly different angle, so that the top of the head would have been exactly horizontal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Rapa Nui people consider the statue to be stolen. In November of 2018 Tarita Alarcon Rapu, the Governor of Easter Island, asked the British Museum to return the statue. The Rapa Nui people have recently gained administration over their ancestral lands on Easter Island. The museum agreed to discuss the statue with representatives of the Rapa Nui people . The museum does not list the statue as a gift in its digital archives, it is recorded as a collected artifact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33248616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33248616", "title": "Italians of Croatia", "text": "Italians of Croatia\n\nItalians of Croatia are an autochthonous historical national minority recognized by the Constitution of Croatia. As such, they elect a special representative to the Croatian Parliament. There is Italian Union of Croatia and Slovenia, in Croat \"Talijanska Unija\", in Sloven \"Italijanska Unija\", which is Croat-Sloven organization with main site in Fiume-Rijeka and secondary site in Capodistria-Koper of Slovenia.\n\nThere are two main groups of Italians in Croatia, based on geographical origin:\n\nAccording to the 2011 Croatian census, Italians of Croatia number 17,807, or 0.42% of the total Croatian population. They mostly reside in the county of Istria. \n\n, the Italian language is officially used in twenty cities and municipalities and ten other settlements in Croatia, according to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.\n\nThe Flag of Italians of Croatia is the ethnic flag of Italians of Croatia. The flag was introduced on the basis of decisions of Unione Italiana which acts on the territory of Slovenia and Croatia as the highest body of minority self-government of the Italian minority in Croatia and Slovenia. \n\n"}
{"id": "36168771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36168771", "title": "Jim Paratore", "text": "Jim Paratore\n\nJames Paratore (August 13, 1953 – May 29, 2012) was an American television producer whose credits included \"The Tyra Banks Show\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", and \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\". Paratore co-founded the TMZ web site, and the company ParaMedia in 2005 and its companion television show, \"TMZ on TV\", in 2007.\n\nA native of Louisiana, Paratore earned a bachelor's degree in communications from Loyola University New Orleans.\n\nParatore began his career as a programming director for several Florida television stations before joining Telepictures.\n\nParatore was the President of Warner Bros. Telepictures Productions from 1992 to 2006. He developed Telepictures' slate of daytime syndicated and prime time reality shows, including ABC's \"The Bachelor\". As President of Telepictures, Paratore oversaw the creation of some of the studio's most prominent shows, including \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\" and \"The Bachelor\". Paratore remained the executive producer of \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", the syndicated daytime talk show which debuted in 2003, even after departing his Telepictures in 2006.\n\nHe also served as the Vice President of Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution from 2002 until his death in 2012.\nParatore died of a heart attack while bicycling in Paris, France on May 29, 2012, at the age of 58. He was survived by his first wife (Michele Richie) of 13 years and mother of his only daughter Martinique (Martini) Paratore, Second Wife Jill Wickert.\n"}
{"id": "21491684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21491684", "title": "John Rose Award", "text": "John Rose Award\n\nThe John Rose Award aims to help disseminate exceptional environmental research to a wide audience and fulfill its potential. The prize is awarded at the annual Burntwood Lecture, held at the Royal Society in London. The Institution of Environmental Sciences launched the award to increase the understanding of, and solutions to environmental issues.\n"}
{"id": "47657442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47657442", "title": "John Ruffo", "text": "John Ruffo\n\nJohn Ruffo (born November 24, 1954) is an American former business executive, white-collar criminal and confidence man, who in 1998 was convicted in a scheme to defraud many US and foreign banking institutions of over 350 million dollars. The swindle is considered one of the most significant cases of bank fraud in US history. He has been a fugitive from justice ever since, and is on the U.S. Marshals 15 Most Wanted Fugitives list.\n\nHe was the President of CCS, an IBM equipment reseller in New York City, in 1996.\n\nRuffo was born to a close-knit Italian American family in a working class neighborhood in Brooklyn. He attended New York University on a scholarship, earning a degree in computer science. In May 1980, he married his childhood sweetheart, Linda. Ruffo initially worked for United Computer Systems LLC in New York, before eventually branching out to form his own firm, Consolidated Computer Services (CCS).\n\nRuffo became acquainted with and befriended another prominent New York businessman, Edward J. Reiners, formerly an executive with Phillip Morris USA. After Reiners was laid off, he approached Ruffo with an idea in 1992. The scheme involved soliciting various banks in an attempt to secure financing for a fictitious \"Project Star\". They pitched the project to bank executives as a top secret operation for Phillip Morris to develop smokeless cigarettes. Ruffo's company, CCS, was to provide the computer hardware and consulting for five offices set up to work on the project. They leveraged Reiners' prior credentials as a Phillip Morris executive to forge documents and add authenticity to the scheme. They also included stringent confidentiality agreements stipulating that because of the sensitivity of the project, banks were to deal only with Reiners and to never contact Phillip Morris directly.\n\nRuffo tried to avoid suspicion by making timely interest payments on the loans. However, in 1996 a bank executive at the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan noticed an irregularity on one of the forged documents. After he contacted Phillip Morris and then the FBI, the scheme began to unravel. Reiners was arrested by FBI agents who set up a sting operation on March 19 of 1996, and an arrest warrant was issued for Ruffo two weeks later. All told the scheme generated over $350 million in secured loans, though much of it was squandered in poor stock market speculation and exorbitant spending habits on the part of the conspirators. $21 million, however, was never accounted for by federal authorities.\nRuffo faced a 150-count indictment charging him with bank fraud, money laundering, wire fraud, and conspiracy. His bail was set at an unusually high $10 million as he was considered a flight risk. As nearly all of Ruffo's known assets and accounts were frozen by the FBI, most of his immediate family put up their homes as collateral to secure his pre-trial release. Ruffo was found guilty on all counts and was sentenced to 17 years in prison.\n\nIn November 1998, Ruffo failed to turn himself over to the U.S. Marshals Service to begin serving his sentence. His image was captured on CCTV cameras taking money out of an ATM (pictured) on the afternoon he was to report, but he has not been seen nor heard from since. In his wife's last communication with him on the morning of his disappearance, he told her he was meeting with a parole officer but never returned. His car was later recovered by the FBI abandoned at JFK Airport.Three months after Ruffo's disappearance, the homes of his wife, mother, mother-in-law, and others were seized by the government as a forfeiture of bond collateral, effectively making them all homeless.\n\nAuthorities believe Ruffo still has access to substantial overseas financial resources, which could be aiding him in his ability to stay off-the-grid and assume a new identity. Chief Deputy US Marshall John Bolen commented in 2013, \"Having been sentenced to 220 months of incarceration and not serving a single day of that kind of sticks in the craw of those of us in this profession. His actions are a mockery to our justice system. We are the best in the world at this. He just has to make one mistake. We can make many but he just has to make one. We'll catch him\". In 2007, Ruffo's last attorney, Jeffery Lichtman, offered the following when asked if he thought authorities would ever capture his former client: \"I think if I had to be a betting man, I'd put my money on John Ruffo. Because from what I can see so far, he is smarter than the people looking for him.\"\n\nRuffo remains at large. The U.S. Marshals Service is offering a $25,000 reward for information that leads to the capture of John Ruffo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33528339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33528339", "title": "Kele people (Congo)", "text": "Kele people (Congo)\n\nThe Kele people (or Lokele) are a Bantu ethnic group of about 160,000 people, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThey mainly live on the south bank of the Congo River between Kisangani and Isangi.\nThe New Testament was first published in their Kele language in 1918.\n\nThe Kele were known for their drum language, described by the English missionary John F. Carrington, who spent his life in Africa.\nHis findings were published in his 1949 book \"The Talking Drums of Africa\".\nThe Kele people used drum language for rapid communication between villages. Each village had an expert drummer, \nand all villagers could understand the drum language.\nCarrington studied the drum language at a time when it was already falling out of use, and today it is extinct.\n"}
{"id": "21812729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21812729", "title": "Kim R. Gibson", "text": "Kim R. Gibson\n\nKim Richard Gibson (born 1948) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.\n\nBorn in Trenton, New Jersey, Gibson received a Bachelor of Science degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1970, and a Juris Doctor, magna cum laude, from the Dickinson School of Law, (now known as Pennsylvania State University - Dickinson Law), in 1975. He was an editor of the Dickinson Law Review. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the United States Army in June 1970 and following completion of airborne and ranger training, he served as an armor officer until October 1975 and as a JAG officer until August 1978. Following his release from active duty he continued to serve in the United States Army Reserve and retired as a Colonel, JAG, USAR in 1996. In 1991, he and his JAG Detachment were activated during the first Gulf War.\n\nGibson was in private practice as a sole practitioner in Somerset, Pennsylvania, from 1978 through 1997. During that time he served as a public defender, attorney for Children and Youth Services, solicitor for a school district and various municipalities and as solicitor for Somerset County.\n\nHe was elected to the Somerset County Court of Common Pleas in 1997. During his time on the common pleas bench, he was instrumental in establishing Victim Impact Panels and Juvenile Drug Court (only the second such court in Pennsylvania).\n\nOn April 28, 2003, Gibson was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania vacated by D. Brooks Smith. Gibson was confirmed by the United States Senate on September 23, 2003, and received his commission the following day. Gibson assumed senior status on June 3, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "35513231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35513231", "title": "Kosovo refugees in Albania", "text": "Kosovo refugees in Albania\n\nKosovo refugees in Albania refers to the mostly ethnic Albanians of Kosovo (at the time part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) fleeing the Kosovo War into neighboring Albania in 1999. This crisis was exceptional at the time, as a movement of population this big in such a short period of time was unseen since WWII. In addition to the ones going to Albania, a large number of Kosovo refugees fled to The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Almost all of the remaining 500,000 to 600,000 individuals in Kosovo were also displaced in the region itself, without leaving it.\n\nIn March 1999, the NATO started a military air strike in Kosovo, in the name of an \"Humanitarian War\". This led to many Albanians fleeing from Kosovo to neighboring countries, mainly from March to June 1999.\n\nAlbania opened its borders from the beginning of the crisis in order to let refugees come. People were arriving directly at the border located at the north east of the country, or were transferred from Macedonia. Albania was not prepared for so many people to come and asked for international help in order to cover refugees basic needs. To coordinate the operations, the Albanian government created the Emergency Management Group days after the NATO military air strike began. This group coordinated actions from main structures such as the UNHCR and many other organisations such as NGOs. The situation was nevertheless delicate during the first days because UNHCR and NGOs did not predict that the NATO bombings would last for several months and lead to such a movement of population. Equipment was at first lacking, but many international structures and NGO's raised funds and/or gave practical help to Albania. Several European countries stated that it was in the interests of the refugees to stay in the region and gave financial help. Germany, for example, gave money to build camps in Albania for refugees transferred from Macedonia. On top of the refugees placed in camps, the Albanian population welcomed many of them in their homes, sharing space and food.\n\nAlmost 435,000 refugees had to leave Kosovo for Albania, according to the UNHCR. Most of them arrived directly in Albania and some of them were transferred from Macedonia. At the height of the Kosovo War, refugees were crossing the border into Albania at the rate of 4,000 people per hour. Afterward, the UNHCR stated that up to 25% of the population of Kosovo had fled.\n\nOn June the 11th, 1999, the air campaign from the NATO stopped. The day before, a military technical agreement was signed by both parties and ended the armed conflict. Afterward, the UNHCR report written about the refugee crisis stated that it was well managed, regarding the circumstances.\n\nIn the peace treaty signed by the Nato and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was asked that refugees could go back to their homes. Most of the refugees were indeed able to go back to Kosovo during the same year, after the armed conflict ended.\n\nThe NATO blamed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and its leader Slobodan Milošević for the refugee crisis. Because of the instability in the region from 1998 already, the NATO did not separate the mass influx of refugee from 1998 to the end of the conflict in its statistics. According to several researchers, however, the mass influx started just after the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1135163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135163", "title": "List of Arabic-language television channels", "text": "List of Arabic-language television channels\n\nThis is a list of television channels and stations in the Arab World, as well as Arab-based Western television channels. The majority, if not all, of these channels are chiefly in Arabic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCurrent Channels:\n\nFormer Channels:\n\n\n\n\nWanasah\n"}
{"id": "43424214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43424214", "title": "List of skeptical organizations", "text": "List of skeptical organizations\n\nThis is a list of notable organizations that promote or practice scientific skepticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26489097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26489097", "title": "Lok Rajputs", "text": "Lok Rajputs\n\nThe Lok Rajputs are Hindu caste found in the state of Rajasthan in India.\n\nThe Lok Rajput claims to descent from a small number of Panwar Rajputs that settled in the hill country near Mount Abu. Owing to their isolation from Rajput groups, they evolved into a distinct community.\n\nThe community is endogamous, and divided into fourteen exogamous gotras. These gotras are involved in the regulating of marriages. They are a community of mainly small peasant farmers, with animal husbandry being their main secondly occupation.\n\n"}
{"id": "486055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486055", "title": "Makar Sankranti", "text": "Makar Sankranti\n\nMakara Sankranti, also known as Makaraa Sankrānti (Sanskrit: मकर सङ्क्रान्ति) or Maghi, is a festival day in the Hindu calendar, in reference to deity Surya (sun). It is observed each year in January. It marks the first day of sun's transit into the Makara (Capricorn), marking the end of the month with the winter solstice and the start of longer days.\n\n\"Makara Sankranti\" is one of the few ancient Indian festivals that has been observed according to solar cycles, while most festivals are set by the lunar cycle of the lunisolar Hindu calendar. Being a festival that celebrates the solar cycle, it almost always falls on the same Gregorian date every year (January 14), except in some years when the date shifts by a day for that year. The festivities associated with Makar Sankranti are known by various names such as Maghi (preceded by Lohri) by north Indian Hindus and Sikhs, Makara Sankranti (Pedda Pandaga) in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, Sukarat in central India, Magh Bihu by Assamese, and Pongal by Tamils.\n\nMakara Sankranti is observed with social festivities such as colorful decorations, rural children going house to house, singing and asking for treats in some areas (or pocket money), \"melas\" (fairs), dances, kite flying, bonfires and feasts. The \"Magha Mela\", according to Diana L. Eck (professor at Harvard University specializing in Indology), is mentioned in the Hindu epic (the \"Mahabharata\"), thus placing this festival to be around 5,000 years old. Many go to sacred rivers or lakes and bathe with thanksgiving to the sun. Every twelve years, the Hindus observe \"Makar Sankranti\" with one of the world's largest mass pilgrimages, with an estimated 40 to 100 million people attending the event. At this event, they say a prayer to the sun and bathe at the Prayaga confluence of the River Ganga and River Yamuna at the Kumbha Mela, a tradition attributed to Adi Shankaracharya.\n\nMakara Sankranti is set by the solar cycle of the Hindu lunisolar calendar, and is observed on a day which usually falls on 14 January of Gregorian calendar, but sometimes 15 January. It signifies the arrival of longer days. Makar Sankranti falls in the Hindu calendar solar month of Makara, and lunar month of \"Magha\" (the festival is also called Magha Sankranti or Magha festival in parts of India). It marks the end of the month with winter solstice for India and the longest night of the year, a month that is called Pausha in lunar calendar and Dhanu in the solar calendar in the Vikrami system. The festival celebrates the first month with consistently longer days.\n\nThere are two different systems to calculate the Makara Sankranti date: \"nirayana\" (without adjusting for precession of equinoxes, sidereal) and \"sayana\" (with adjustment, tropical). The January 14 date is based on the \"nirayana\" system, while the \"sayana\" system typically computes to about December 23, per most Siddhanta texts for Hindu calendars.\n\nThe festival is dedicated to the Hindu sun god, \"Surya\". This significance of Surya is traceable to the Vedic texts, particularly the Gayatri Mantra, a sacred hymn of Hinduism found in its scripture named the \"Rigveda\". The festival also marks the beginning of a six months auspicious period for Hindus known as \"Uttarayana\" period.\n\nMakara Sankranti is regarded as important for spiritual practices and accordingly, people take a holy dip in rivers, especially Ganga, Yamuna, Godavari, Krishna and Kaveri. The bathing is believed to result in merit or absolution of past sins. They also pray to the sun and thank for their successes and prosperity. A shared cultural practices found amongst Hindus of various parts of India is making sticky, bound sweets particularly from sesame (\"til\") and a sugar base such as jaggery (\"gud, gur\"). This type of sweet is a symbolism for being together in peace and joyfulness, despite the uniqueness and differences between individuals. For most parts of India, this period is a part of early stages of the Rabi crop and agricultural cycle, where crops have been sown and the hard work in the fields is mostly over. The time thus signifies a period of socializing and families enjoying each other's company, taking care of the cattle, and celebrating around bonfires, in Maharashtra the festival is celebrated by flying kites.\n\nMakara Sankranti is an important pan-Indian solar festival, known by different names though observed on the same date, sometimes for multiple dates around the Makar Sankranti. It is known as Pedda Panduga in Andhra Pradesh, Makara Sankranti in Karnataka, Pongal in Tamil Nadu, Magh Bihu in Assam, Magha Mela in parts of central and north India, as Makar Sankranti in the west, and by other names.\n\nMakara or Makar Sankranti is celebrated in many parts of Indian subcontinent with some regional variations. It is known by different names and celebrated with different customs in different parts of the region:\n\n\nIn other countries too the day is celebrated by Hindus, but under different names and in different ways.\n\nIt is celebrated differently across the Indian subcontinent. Many people take a dip in places like Ganga Sagar Prayag and pray to the Sun God (Surya). It is celebrated with pomp in southern parts of India as Sankranti in Karnataka (Pongal in Tamil Nadu), and in Punjab as Maghi.\nMany melas or fairs are held on Makar Sankranti the most famous being the Kumbha Mela, held every 12 years at one of four holy locations, namely \"Haridwar\", \"Prayag\" (\"Allahabad\"), \"Ujjain\" and \"Nashik\". The \"Magha Mela\" (or \" mini-Kumbh Mela\" held annually at Prayag) and the \"Gangasagar Mela\" (held at the head of the Ganges River, where it flows into the Bay of Bengal). Makar Mela in Odisha. Tusu Mela also called as Tusu Porab is celebrated in many parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal. Poush Mela is an annual fair and festival that takes place in Santiniketan, in Birbhum District of West Bengal.\n\nThe festival, Sankranti (మకర సంక్రాంతి), is celebrated for four days in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana:\nThe day preceding Makara Sankranti is called Bhoghi (భోగి). This is when people discard old and derelict things and concentrate on new things causing change or transformation. At dawn, people light a bonfire with logs of wood, other solid fuels and wooden furniture that are no longer useful.\n\n\nThe second day is Makara Sankranti. People wear new clothes, pray to God, and make offerings of traditional food to ancestors who have died. They also make beautiful and ornate drawings and patterns on the ground with chalk or flour, called \"Rangoli\" or \"muggu\" in Telugu, in front of their homes. These drawings are decorated with flowers, colours and small, hand-pressed piles of cow dung, called \"gobbemma\" (గొబ్బెమ్మ).\n\nFor this festival all families prepare Chekkalu, Chakralu, Arisalu, Booralu, Gavvalu, Poornalu, Boondi Mitai, Boondi Laddu, Garelu, Chakinalu, Nuvvula Appalu, Katte Appalu or karam appalu, Madugulu (Jantikalu), Bellam Appalu, kudumulu, Ariselu, Appalu (a sweet made of jaggery and rice flour) dappalam (a dish made with pumpkin and other vegetables) and make an offering to God.\nOn the third day, Kanuma (కనుమ) is celebrated. Kanuma is very intimate to the hearts of farmers because it is the day for praying and showcasing their cattle with honor. Cattle are the symbolic indication of prosperity. On the day after Makara Sankranti, the animal kingdom is remembered and, in particular, cows. Girls feed the animals, birds and fish as a symbol of sharing.\n\nThe fourth day is called Mukkanuma (ముక్కనుమ) which is popular among the non-vegetarians of the society. On this day, farmers offer prayers to the elements (like soil, rain, fire for helping the harvest) and the (village) goddesses with their gifts which sometimes (and these days mainly) include animals. People in Andhra and Telangana do not eat any meat (or fish) during the first three days of the festival and do so only on the day of Mukkanuma. Kanuma, Mukkanuma and the day following Mukkanuma call for celebrations with union of families, friends, relatives. People play with kites and the sky is filled with beautiful kites.\n\nAnother notable feature of the festival in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is the \"Haridasu\" and \"Gangiredduvallu\" who go early in the morning with a colourfully dressed cow. Haridasus sing songs of Lord Vishnu (Hari); hence the name Haridasu (servant of Hari). It is a custom that he should not talk to anyone and only sing songs of Lord Vishnu when he goes to everyone's house.\n\nMagh Bihu (মাঘ বিহু) (also called Bhogali Bihu (ভোগালী বিহু) (Bihu of eating foods and enjoyment) or Maghar Domahi (মাঘৰ দোমাহী) is a harvest festival celebrated in Assam, India, which marks the end of harvesting season in the month of Maagha (January–February). It is the Assam celebration of Makar Sankranti, with feasting lasting for a week.\n\nThe festival is marked by feasts and bonfires. Young people erect makeshift huts, known as \"Meji\" and \"Bhelaghar\", from bamboo, leaves and thatch, and in \"Bhelaghar\" they eat the food prepared for the feast, and then burn the huts the next morning. The celebrations also feature traditional Assamese games such as tekeli bhonga (pot-breaking) and buffalo fighting. Magh Bihu celebrations start on the last day of the previous month, the month of \"Pooh\", usually the 29th of Pooh and usually the 14th of January, and is the only day of Magh Bihu in modern times (earlier, the festival would last for the whole month of Magh, and so the name Magh Bihu). The night before is \"Uruka\" (28th of Pooh), when people gather around a bonfire, cook dinner, and make merry.\n\nDuring Magh Bihu people of Assam make cakes of rice with various names such as Shunga Pitha, Til Pitha etc. and some other sweets of coconut called Laru or Laskara.\n\nIn Bihar and Jharkhand, the festival is celebrated on 14–15 January.\n\nOn 14 January, it is celebrated as Makar Sankranti or Sakraat or Khichdi (in local dialects). As in other parts of country, people take baths in rivers and ponds and feast upon seasonal delicacies as a celebration of good harvest. The delicacies include chura, gur (jaggery), sweets made of til (sesame seeds) such as tilgul, tilwa, maska, etc., curd, milk and seasonal vegetables. Kite flying festivals are organised, albeit on a small scale.\n\nOn 15 January, it is celebrated as Makraat (in some parts of the state) when people relish special khichdi (dal-rice replete with cauliflower, peas and potatoes).\n\nThe festival is one of the most important. People start their day by worshiping and putting til (sesame seeds) into fire followed by eating \"dahi-chuda\", a dish made of beaten rice (chuda or poha, in Hindi, or avalakki, in Kannada) served with a larger serving of dahi (curd), with cooked kohada (red pumpkin) that is prepared specially with sugar and salt but no water. The meal is generally accompanied by tilkut and lai (laddu made of til, chuda and rice). The festive meal is traditionally made by women in groups. Since the meal is heavy, lunch is generally skipped on the day and the time is, instead, spent on socializing and participating in kite flying festivals.\n\nAt night a special khichdi is made and served with its four traditional companions, \"char yaar\" (four friends) — chokha (roasted vegetable), papad, ghee and achaar. Since such a rich khichdi is generally made on this festival, the festival is often colloquially referred to as \"Khichdi\".\n\nKayastha community which have been building blocks of Delhi today and Other neighbouring rural communities like Yadavs, Jats which mainly belong to Haryana and Punjab consider Sakraat or Sankranti to be a main festival of the year. Churma of ghee, halwa and kheer are cooked specially in Jats and Yadavs homes on this day. One brother of every married woman visits her home with a gift of some warm clothing for her and her husband's family. It is called \"Sidha\". Women used to give a gift to their in-laws, and this rituals called \"Manana\". The recipient will sit in a haweli (main palace where men sit together and share hookka). Women go to haweli to sing folk songs and give gifts.\n\nKnown as \"Sankrant\" in Goa and like in the rest of the country, people distribute sweets in the form of granules of sugar-coated till pulses among family members and friends, with the words,\"Till gull gheiat, godd uloiat\", meaning \"Eat seasame and jaggery and sweeten your talk\".\n\n12-day Haldi Kumkum festival begins on Makar Sankranti, married women celebrate the festival till Ratha Saptami.Married women visit each other's homes where the women apply \"Halad\"(turmeric) and Kumkum (vermilion) to the foreheads of other women and put flowers in their hair, and offer them household gifts.\nNewly married women offer five sunghat or small clay pots with black beaded threads tied around them, to the deity. These pots are filled with newly harvested food grains and are offered with betel leaves and areca nut. Its observance takes place on a rather subdued note, unlike major festivals of the region like Ganesh chaturthi.\n\nUttarayan, as Makar Sankranti is called in Gujarati, is a major festival in the state of Gujarat which lasts for two days.\n\n\nGujarati people keenly await this festival to fly kites, called 'patang'. Kites for Uttarayan are made of special light-weight paper and bamboo and are mostly rhombus shaped with central spine and a single bow. The string often contains abrasives to cut down other people's kites.\n\nIn Gujarat, from December through to Makar Sankranti, people start enjoying Uttarayan. Undhiyu (spicy, baked mix of winter vegetables) and chikkis (made from til (sesame seeds), peanuts and jaggery) are the special festival recipes savoured on this day. The Hindu Sindhi community in western regions of India, that is also found in southeastern parts of Pakistan, celebrate Makar Sankranti as Tirmoori. On this day, parents sending sweet dishes to their daughters.\n\nIn the major cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, and Jamnagar the skies appear filled with thousands upon thousands of kites as people enjoy two full days of Uttarayan on their terraces.\n\nWhen people cut any kites they yell words like \"kaypo chhe\", \"e lapet\",\"jaay jaay\",\"phirki vet phirki\" and \"lapet lapet\" in Gujarati.\n\nIn Shimla District of Himachal Pradesh, Makar Sankranti is known as Magha Saaji. Saaji is the Pahari word for Sakranti, start of the new month. Hence this day marks the start of the month of Magha.\n\nAccording to Hindu religious texts, on the day of Uttarayani the sun enters the zodiac sign of Makara (Capricorn), i.e., from this day onwards the sun becomes 'Uttarayan' or it starts moving to the north. It is said that from this day, which signals a change of season, the migratory birds start returning to the hills. On Magha Saaja people wake up early in the morning and take ceremonial dips and shower in the springs or baolis. In the daytime people visit their neighbours and together enjoy khichdi with ghee and chaas and give it in charity at temples. Festival culminates with singing and Naati (folk dance).\n\nThis is the Suggi (ಸುಗ್ಗಿ) or harvest festival for farmers of Karnataka. On this auspicious day, girls wear new clothes to visit near and dear ones with a Sankranti offering in a plate and exchange the same with other families. This ritual is called \"Ellu Birodhu.\" Here the plate would normally contain \"Ellu\" (white sesame seeds) mixed with fried groundnuts, neatly cut dry coconut and fine cut bella (jaggery). The mixture is called \"Ellu-Bella\" (ಎಳ್ಳು ಬೆಲ್ಲ). The plate contains shaped sugar candy moulds (Sakkare Acchu, ಸಕ್ಕರೆ ಅಚ್ಚು) with a piece of sugarcane. There is a saying in Kannada \"ellu bella thindu olle maathadi\" that translates to 'eat the mixture of sesame seeds and jaggery and speak only good.' This festival signifies the harvest of the season, since sugarcane is predominant in these parts. Ellu Bella, Ellu Unde, bananas, sugarcane, red berries, haldi and kumkum and small gift items useful in everyday lives are often exchanged among women in Karnataka.\nIn some parts of Karnataka, a newly married woman is required to give away bananas for five years to married women (muthaidhe/sumangali) from the first year of her marriage and increase the number of bananas in multiples of five. There is also a tradition of some households giving away red berries \"Yalchi Kai\" with the above. In north Karnataka, kite flying with community members is a tradition. Drawing rangoli in groups is another popular event among women during Sankranti.\n\nAn important ritual is display of cows and bulls in colourful costumes in an open field. Cows are decorated for the occasion and taken on a procession. They are also made to cross a fire. This ritual is common in rural Karnataka and is called \"Kichchu Haayisuvudu.\"\n\nMakar Sankranti is celebrated in Kerala at Sabarimala where the Makara Jyothi is visible followed by the Makaravilakku celebrations.\n\nIn the Kumaon region of Uttarakhand, Makar Sankranti is celebrated with great gusto. The Uttarayani fair is held in the month of January every year in Bageshwar The religious ritual of the fair consists in bathing before daybreak at the confluence of Saryu and Gomati. After Bathing, an offering of water to Lord Shiva inside the Bagnath Temple is essential. Those who are more religiously disposed, continue this practice for three days in succession, which is known as \"Trimaghi\".\n\nAccording to Indian religious texts, on the day of Uttarayani also called Ghughuti (घुघुति) in Kumaon, the sun enters the Zodiacal sign of 'Makara' (Capricon), i.e. from this day onwards the sun becomes 'Uttarayan' or it starts moving to the north. It is said that from this day, which signals a change of season, the migratory birds start returning to the hills. On Makar Sankranti people give Khichadi (a mixture of pulses and rice) in charity, take ceremonial dips in holy rivers, participate in the Uttarayani fairs and celebrate the festival of Ghughutia or Kale Kauva. During the festival of Kale Kauva (literal translation 'black crow') people make sweetmeats out of sweetened flour (flour and gur) deep fried in ghee, shape them in shapes such as drums, pomegranates, knives, and swords. These are fed to crows and other birds.\n\nIn Maharashtra on Makar Sankranti (मकर संक्रान्ति) day people exchange multicoloured halwa (sugar granules coated in sugar syrup) and \"til-gul laadoo\" (sweetmeats made from sesame seeds and jaggery). \"Gulachi poli/puran poli\" (गुळाची पोळी / पुरण पोळी) (flat bread stuffed with soft/shredded jaggery mixed with toasted, ground til [white sesame seeds]) and some gram flour, which has been toasted to golden in pure ghee, are offered for lunch. While exchanging \"til-gul\" as tokens of goodwill people greet each other with the words \"तिळगुळ घ्या, आणि गोड-गोड बोला / til-gul ghyaa, aani goad-goad bolaa\" meaning ‘Accept this \"til-gul\" (sweet) and utter sweet words’. The underlying thought in the exchange of \"til-gul\" is to forget the past ill-feelings and hostilities and resolve to speak sweetly and remain friends.\n\nThe festival is known as Makar Sankranti in Odisha where people prepare \"makar chaula\" (): uncooked newly harvested rice, banana, coconut, jaggery, sesame, rasagola, Khai/Liaa and chhena puddings for naivedya to gods and goddesses. The withdrawing winter entails a change in food habits and intake of nourishing and rich food. Therefore, this festival holds traditional cultural significance. It is astronomically important for devotees who worship the sun god at the great Konark temple with fervour and enthusiasm as the sun starts its annual swing northwards. According to various Indian calendars, the Sun's movement changes and the days from this day onwards become lengthier and warmer and so the Sun-God is worshiped on this day as a great benefactor. Many individuals at the start of the day perform a ritual bath while fasting. Makar Mela (Fun fair) is observed at Dhabaleswar in Cuttack, Hatakeshwar at Atri in Khordha, Makara Muni temple in Balasore and near deities in each district of Odisha. In Puri special rituals are carried out at the temple of Lord Jagannath. In Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Kalahandi, Koraput and Sundargarh where the tribal population is greater, the festival is celebrated with great joy. They celebrate this festival with great enthusiasm, singing, dancing and generally having an enjoyable time. This Makara Sankranti celebration is next to the Odia traditional new year Maha Vishuva Sankranti which falls in mid April. Tribal groups celebrate with traditional dancing, eating their particular dishes sitting together, and by lighting bonfires.\n\nIt is the only Indian festival celebrated on a fixed day of the Gregorian calendar. Besides the usual rituals, people of Orissa, especially Western Orissa, reaffirm the strength of the bond of friendship with their best friends during this occasion. The practice is called ‘Makar Basma’.\nAfter a man binds himself with one of his friends in the shackles of friendship during Makar Sankranti, afterwards he addresses the other as ‘Maharshad’ or ‘Marsad’; if two women tie the friendship lace on each other’s wrist, they call each other ‘Makara’. They don’t utter each other’s name. This goes on for one full year till the next Makar Sankranti. In Eastern Orissa, on many occasions, two friends feed each other ‘Mahaprasad’, the offering made in the famous Jagannath temple of Puri, and continue the friendship for at least one year. Orissa Post talks to some women about their experiences when they tied the friendship knot on Makar Sankranti.\n\nIn Punjab, Makar Sankranti is celebrated as Maghi which is a religious and cultural festival. Bathing in a river in the early hours on Maghi is important. Hindus light lamps with sesame oil as this is supposed to give prosperity and drive away all sins. A major mela is held at Sri Muktsar Sahib on Maghi which commemorates a historical event in Sikh history.\n\nCulturally, people dance their famous \"bhangra\". They then sit down and eat the sumptuous food that is specially prepared for the occasion. It is traditional to eat \"kheer\", rice cooked in milk and sugarcane juice. It is also traditional to consume khichdi and jaggery. December and January are the coldest months of the year in the Punjab. Maghi represents the change of the season to warmer temperatures and increase in daylight. Maghi fairs are held in many places.\n\n\"Makar Sankrati\" or \"Sakraat\" in the Rajasthani language is one of the major festivals in the state of Rajasthan. The day is celebrated with special Rajasthani delicacies and sweets such as pheeni (either with sweet milk or sugar syrup dipped), til-paati, gajak, kheer, ghevar, pakodi, puwa, and til-laddoo.\n\nSpecially, the women of this region observe a ritual in which they give any type of object (related to household, make-up or food) to 13 married women. The first Sankranti experienced by a married woman is of significance as she is invited by her parents and brothers to their houses with her husband for a big feast. People invite friends and relatives (specially their sisters and daughters) to their home for special festival meals (called as \"Sankrant Bhoj\"). People give out many kind of small gifts such as til-gud (jaggery), fruits, dry khichadi, etc. to Brahmins or the needy ones.\n\nKite flying is traditionally observed as a part of this festival. On this occasion the sky in Jaipur and Hadoti regions is filled with kites, and youngsters engage in contests trying to cut each other's strings.\n\nIt is a four-day festival in Tamil Nadu:\n\nThe festival is celebrated four days from the last day of the Tamil month Maargazhi to the third day of the Tamil month Thai.\n\nThe first day of festival is Bhogi (போகி). It is celebrated on the last day of Margazshi by throwing away and destroying old clothes and materials, by setting them on fire, marking the end of the old and the emergence of the new. In villages there will be a simple ceremony of \"Kappu Kattu\" (kappu means secure) will be done. The 'neem' leaves are kept along the walls and roof of the houses. This is to eliminate evil forces.\n\n\nThe second day of festival is Thai Pongal or simply Pongal. It is the main day of the festival, falling on the first day of the Tamil month Thai which starts with the solar cycle when sun starts moving through the summer solstice. It is celebrated by boiling rice with fresh milk and jaggery in new pots, which are later topped with brown sugar, cashew nuts and raisins early in the morning and allowing it to boil over the vessel. This tradition gives Pongal its name. The moment the rice boils over and bubbles out of the vessel, the tradition is to shout \"பொங்கலோ பொங்கல் (Ponggalo Ponggal)!\" and blow the sangu (a conch), a custom practised to announce it was going to be a year blessed with good tidings. Then new boiled rice is offered to the Sun god during sunrise, as a prayer which symbolises thanks to the sun for providing prosperity. It is later served to the people in the house for the ceremony. People prepare savouries and sweets such as \"vadai, murukku, payasam\" and visit each other and exchange greetings.\n\n\nThe third day of festival is Maattu Pongal (மாட்டுப் பொங்கல்). It is for offering thanks to cattle, as they help farmers in agriculture. On this day the cattle are decorated with paint, flowers and bells. They are allowed to roam free and fed sweet rice and sugar cane. Some people decorate the horns with gold or other metallic covers. In some places, Jallikattu, or taming the wild bull contest, is the main event of this day and this is mostly seen in the villages.\n\nThe fourth day of the festival is Kaanum Pongal (காணும் பொங்கல்: the word kaanum means \"to view\"). During this day people visit their relatives, friends to enjoy the festive season. It is a day to thank relatives and friends for their support in the harvest. It started as a farmers festival, called as Uzhavar Thirunaal in Tamil. \"Kolam\" (கோலம்) decorations are made in front of the house during Thai Pongal festival.\n\nThe festival is known as \"Kicheri\" in Uttar Pradesh and involves ritual bathing. Over two million people gather at their respective sacred places for this holy bathing such as Allahabad and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Haridwar in Uttarakhand. If they cannot go in river then they bathe at home. There is a compulsion to bathe in the morning while fasting; first they bathe then they eat sweets such as til ladoo and gud laddo (known as \"tillava\" in Bhojpuri). At some places new clothes are worn on this day.\n\nKite flying is an inevitable part of the festival in Uttar Pradesh, as with many states of India such as Gujarat and Maharashtra. Like other places in India, the references to sweets, til (sesame seeds) and gud (jaggery) are found in the songs sung on this day:\n\n\"Meethe Gur me mil gaya Til\",<br>\n\"Udi Patang aur khil gaye Dil\",<br>\n\"Jeevan me bani rahe Sukh aur Shanti\",<br>\n\"Mubarak ho aapko Makar-Sankranti\".\n\nIn West Bengal, Sankranti, also known as Poush Sankranti named after the Bengali month in which it falls (last date of that month), is celebrated as a harvest festival Poush Parbon (Bengali: পৌষ পার্বণ). (It falls on 14 January on the Western calendar.) The freshly harvested paddy and the date palm syrup in the form of Khejurer Gur (Bengali: খেজুরের গুড়)and Patali (Bengali: পাটালি ) is used in the preparation of a variety of traditional Bengali sweets made with rice flour, coconut, milk and 'khejurer gur' (date palm jaggery) and known as 'Pitha' (Bengali: পিঠে). All sections of society participate in a three-day festival that begins on the day before Sankranti and ends on the day after. The Goddess Lakshmi is usually worshipped on the day of Sankranti.\n\nIn the Himalayan regions of Darjeeling, the festival is as known as Magey Sakrati. It is distinctly associated with the worship of Lord Shiva. Traditionally, people bathe at sunrise and then commence their pooja. Elsewhere, many people take a dip in places like Ganga Sagar (the point where the river Ganges meets the Bay of Bengal). Ganga Sagar falls in West Bengal.\n\nIn the day of Makar Sankranti Hindu God Dharma is worshiped. And khichurhi or rice is offered to the God as Bhog (ভোগ). The day after Makar Sankranti the first day in the month Magh from Bengali calendar The Goddess Laxmi devi is worshiped. It is called Baharlaxmi Puja as the idol is worshiped in an open place.\n\nShakrain is an annual celebration of winter in Bangladesh, observed with the flying of kites.\n\nMaghe Sankranti (Nepali and Maithili: माघे सङ्क्रान्ति, Nepal Bhasa: घ्यःचाकु संल्हु) is a Nepalese festival observed on the first of Magh in the Bikram Samwat Hindu Solar Nepali calendar (about 14 January), bringing an end to the ill-omened month of Poush when all religious ceremonies are forbidden. On this day, the sun is believed to leave its southernmost position and begin its northward journey.\n\nMaghe Sankranti is observed by Nepalis Hindu by bathing at the confluence of rivers and praying to the sun. The popular bathing sites include Sankhamul on the Bagmati river near Patan; in the Gandaki/Narayani river basin at Triveni near the Indian border; Devghat near Chitwan Valley and Ridi on the Kaligandaki; and in the Koshi River basin at Dolalghat on the Sun Koshi. On Maghe Sankranti Cha puja and on Bhadra Purnima, some Nepalis worship perform Nara puja for the community's protection from evil. Festive foods like laddoo, ghee and sweet potatoes are distributed to relatives and friends. The mother of each household wishes good health to all family members.\n\nOn this festive day, Sindhi parents send ladoos and chiki (Laaee) made of sesame seeds to their married daughters. The Sindhi community in India too celebrate Makar Sankranti as Tirmoori which involves parents sending sweet dishes to their daughters.\n\nOn this day, the Sri Lanka Tamil farmers honor the Sun God Suriyapakaran. This happens when the sun enters the zodiac sign of Capricorn (Makara). The Thai Pongal festival is celebrated in mid-January, or the Tamil month of Thai, to coincide with the rice harvest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2016692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2016692", "title": "Minister for Refugees, Immigrants and Integration (Denmark)", "text": "Minister for Refugees, Immigrants and Integration (Denmark)\n\nMinistry for Refugees, Immigrants and Integration of Denmark () was a Danish ministerial office, often abbreviated as \"Ministry for Integration\" (). The office was created by Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen on 27 November 2001 when he formed the Cabinet of Anders Fogh Rasmussen I after the 2001 Danish parliamentary election, in which refugees, immigration, and integration of people from non-western countries had been important issues.\n\nOne of the stated goals of the Anders Fogh cabinet, and especially the supporting Danish People's Party which secured the government's majority, was to \"stem the flow\" of refugees to Denmark, and new tougher rules did drastically reduce the number of refugees being granted asylum. Another initiative was the 24 year rule, which stated that husbands/wives must be 24 or older before they could immigrate to Denmark through family reunification (there had been many cases of arranged marriages of young people being used to get around immigration restrictions).\n\nIt was abolished by the Cabinet of Helle Thorning-Schmidt after Rasmussen's right-wing alliance lost the 2011 election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20020170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20020170", "title": "Miss Earth 2009", "text": "Miss Earth 2009\n\nMiss Earth 2009, the ninth edition of Miss Earth pageant, was held on 22 November 2009 at the Boracay Ecovillage Resort and Convention Center in Boracay, Malay, Aklan, Philippines.\n\nThe pageant had 80 delegates from various countries and territories that vied for the Miss Earth crown. The pageant's top 16 semi-finalists competed on both swimsuit and evening gown competitions to determine the top eight semi-finalists, the first time since 2003. At the end of the competition, the outgoing titleholder, Miss Earth 2008, Karla Henry of the Philippines, crowned Larissa Ramos of Brazil as her successor.\n\nThe Miss Earth 2009 theme was \"Green Lifestyle\", in which the candidates were involved with environmental causes. The show was hosted by Marc Nelson, Sarah Meier, and Borgy Manotoc.\n\n\nFor the 9th edition of Miss Earth, no single final question was asked. Instead, images were flashed on screen and each of the eight finalists were tasked to tell something about it.<ref name=\"abs-cbnnews.com/entertainment/11/23/09/brazils-bet-miss-earth-2009\"></ref>\n\nStatement of Miss Earth 2009: \"I come from a country that has the largest rainforest in the world, and it is also known as the 'lungs of the world'. But we cannot just say that we are the 'lungs of the world' because my country produces a lot of air pollution as well.\" – Larissa Ramos, represented Brazil.\n\nThe delegates of Miss Earth 2009 visited different islands of the Philippines with the theme \"Green Lifestyle\" and promoted the use of recyclable materials as part of a collective lifestyle. In addition, they engaged in different environmental activities including the planting of trees, and had school tours in the provinces of Ilocos, Laguna, Negros Occidental, Albay, Pampanga, Bulacan, Rizal, Pangasinan, Batangas, Iloilo, and Metro Manila.\n\nOn 4 November 2009, the delegates were presented to the local and international media at Mader's Garden in Pasig City. The women shared their environmental campaigns and expressed their cause on Mother Nature, a continuous campaign they have been waging as \"Beauties for a Cause\".\n\nPress presentation photos\nThe National costume competition of Miss Earth 2009 was held on 4 November 2009 at the Cultural Center of the Philippines Grand Theater in Pasay City.\n\nEighty delegates participated in the competition, with \"Miss Tanzania\" winning the \"Best in National Costume\" award. Minor/sponsor awards were also given that night which included the \"Placenta Award\" which was given to \"Miss Puerto Rico\" and \"Pasigandahan Award\" (the award name is a combination of the main river that passes through Manila and the Filipino word for beauty) which went to \"Miss Guam\".\n\nThe delegates were divided into three groups which simultaneously competed in the evening gown preliminary competition in three different locations:\n\nThe delegates were divided into three groups which simultaneously competed in the swimsuit competition in three different locations:\n\nThe delegates also had their mall tours and fashion shows in all Robinsons Malls nationwide in order to promote the cause of protection of the environment.\n\nSelected girls appeared as guests on one of the TV shows of ABS-CBN, the official media partner of Carousel Production for Miss Earth 2009. They had gone to Showtime, ASAP 09, The Singing Bee.\n\nFor the first time, the pageant did not take place on the Island of Luzon. The venue for Miss Earth 2009 final night was first planned to be in Cebu City, but the mayor declined due to the financial cost of sponsoring the pageant. Boracay Ecovillage Resort and Convention Center won the rights to host the coronation night of the 2009 edition of the pageant.\n\nThe Miss Earth Organizers unveiled a new crown to be worn by the winner of Miss Earth 2009, with the preservation of planet Earth as its primary consideration. The crown was designed by an environmentalist jewelry designer from Florida, Ramona Haar, the official jeweller of the Miss Earth pageant.\n\nThe new crown is made of 100% recycled precious metals: 14kt gold and argentums sterling silver. The gemstones used were precious and semiprecious stones and donations from over 80 participating countries. These are gemstones that each country is known for either as the origin or source. The gemstones were sent in various forms: faceted, cabochons, beads or rough. The designer travelled to Jaipur, India to have these gemstones individually trim and faceted to the required cut and sizes.\n\nThe flower in the center of the crown represents Mother Earth, as inspired by the statement of the American poet, Ralph Waldo Emerson's \"The earth laughs in flowers\". The recurring spiral motif has always been associated with \"maternal power\" and \"feminine prestige\" which is the essence of Miss Earth. The gentle curves in the crown symbolize \"unity\" and the \"spirit of cooperation\".\n\n\n\nContestants who were confirmed initially but were deleted from the roster of delegates just before the pageant started:\n\nContestant who were confirmed initially but were deleted from the roster of delegates six days after the pageant started:\n\nContestants who withdrew due to other reasons:\n\nCountries who withdrew due to lack of funding and sponsorship:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38277356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38277356", "title": "Naeem Baloch", "text": "Naeem Baloch\n\nNaeem Baloch served as the Governor of the Helmand Province in Afghanistan from 2012 until 2015. Prior to that, he worked as an Afghan intelligence officer in the Helmand Province.\n"}
{"id": "5165228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165228", "title": "Nikita Bergenström", "text": "Nikita Bergenström\n\nNikita Bergenström (former \"Juha Veikko Valjakkala\", \"Aslak Valdemar Ahonen\", and \" Nikita Joakim Fouganthine\"; 13 June 1965 in Pori, Finland)\nis a Finnish murderer convicted of the triple murder of a family in the northern Swedish community of Åmsele.\n\nThe series of events that led to the murders began when the 22-year-old Valjakkala was released from a prison in Turku on 1 May 1988, after which he started wandering through Sweden and Finland with his 21-year-old then-girlfriend Marita Routalammi.\n\nOn 3 July they arrived in Åmsele. After nightfall Valjakkala stole a bicycle. He was pursued by the owners, Sten Nilsson and his 15-year-old son Fredrik. The chase ended at a cemetery where Sten and Fredrik Nilsson were both shot by Valjakkala with a shotgun. Later Sten's wife and Fredrik's mother, Ewa Nilsson, went looking for the two, was chased into the woods and had her throat slit by Valjakkala outside the cemetery. Valjakkala and Routalammi were caught in Odense, Denmark just over a week later.\n\nAt the trial the two defendants blamed each other for the murders, but the court believed Routalammi's story. A psychiatric evaluation found both to be mentally competent for trial. However, the statement by a forensic psychiatrist found that Valjakkala suffered from a psychopathic personality and was very aggressive. Conviction for the murders was his 12th criminal conviction.\n\nValjakkala was given a life sentence on three counts of murder, while Routalammi received two years for complicity in assault and battery. Routalammi was released after serving half of her time, and Valjakkala was transferred to Finland to serve out the rest of his sentence.\n\nValjakkala tried to escape from prison in 1991.\n\nIn April 1994 Valjakkala fled the Riihimäki prison in Finland where he was being held. He took a teacher as a hostage, but he was apprehended nearby and the hostage escaped the situation unscathed.\n\nIn 2002 he escaped from Pyhäselkä prison and traveled to Sweden with his wife, and was captured after a large police operation in Långträsk. Upon returning to prison after the 2002 escape he tried to commit suicide by hanging himself in his cell.\n\nHis next escape in 2004 from Sukeva prison lasted only 19 minutes and reached less than 1 km from the prison walls.\n\nJust after midnight on 28 November 2006 Valjakkala escaped for the fourth time, this time from the labor prison in Hamina. He was captured on the evening of 30 November 2006 by police Readiness Unit Karhuryhmä in Maunula, Helsinki. Police assaulted the apartment which was suspected to be Valjakkala's hideout. Valjakkala was captured without resistance. After the incident Valjakkala went back to closed prison.\n\nValjakkala changed his name to Nikita Joakim Fouganthine in 2008 and later to Nikita Bergenström in 2013 \n\nHaving served 19 years in prison, Fouganthine was due to be released on parole on 1 July 2008.\n\nFouganthine was released on 25 February 2008. He was arrested again on 12 April 2008 for breaking his release terms. He is likely to face charges for, among other things, endangering the traffic, stealing a vehicle and driving a vehicle without a licence and driving an unlicensed taxi. Valjakkala has admitted to the above.\n\nFouganthine and his wife Alexandra married in May 2008.\n\nIn December 2008 the Supreme Court of Finland decided that he would be released with a suspended sentence on February 2009. Fouganthine was paroled again on February 2. In a recent interview he revealed that he is currently writing an autobiography.\n\nOn 23 November 2011 he escaped from Kerava's parole prison. The Finnish police say that he might be somewhere else than Finland. On 1 December Nikita Fouganthine was found in Vallila, Helsinki. It is not believed that Fouganthine committed any crimes during his escape.\n\nIn 1991, Swedish director Jan Troell directed a film based on the Åmsele murders, \"\", starring Antti Reini.\n\nNikita Bergenström is credited as Juha Valjakkala in \"The Girl Who Played with Fire\", in a comparison between criminals' profiles.\n\nThe eighteenth episode of the Danish television drama \"Rejseholdet\" is based on the Åmsele murders.\n"}
{"id": "5032635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5032635", "title": "Nyamusa people", "text": "Nyamusa people\n\nNyamusa is an ethnic group of Western Equatoria in South Sudan. They speak Nyamusa-Molo, a Nilo-Saharan language.\n"}
{"id": "19043007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19043007", "title": "O͘", "text": "O͘\n\nO͘ is one of the six Taiwanese Hokkien vowels as written in the Peh-oe-ji (POJ) orthography. It is a normal o followed by Unicode , and is not to be confused with the Vietnamese Ơ. It is pronounced .\n\nThis letter is not well-supported by fonts and is often typed as either o· (using the interpunct), o• (using the bullet), oo, or ou.\n\nBecause Taiwanese is a tonal language the standard letter without a diacritic represents the vowel in the first tone, the other four possible tone categories require one of the following tonal symbols to be written above it.\n\nThe character was introduced by the Xiamen-based missionary Elihu Doty in the mid-nineteenth century, as a way to distinguish the Minnan vowels and (the latter becoming ). Since then it has become established in the Peh-oe-ji orthography, with only occasional deviations early in its usage – one example being Carstairs Douglas's 1873 dictionary, where he replaced the with an o with a curl (similar to that of the English Phonotypic Alphabet), and a second example being Tan Siew Imm's 2016 dictionary of Penang Hokkien, where she replaced the with .\n"}
{"id": "22614601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22614601", "title": "Piracy in Indonesia", "text": "Piracy in Indonesia\n\nPiracy in Indonesia is not only notorious, but according to a survey conducted by the International Maritime Bureau, it was also the country sporting the highest rate of pirate attacks back in 2004, where it subsequently dropped to second place of the world's worst country of pirate attacks in 2008, finishing just behind Nigeria. However, Indonesia is still deemed as the country with the world's most dangerous water due to its high piracy rate.\nWith more than half of the world's piracy crimes surrounding the South-East Asia aquatic regions, the turmoil caused by piracy has made the Strait of Malacca a distinct pirate hotspot accounting for most of the attacks in Indonesia, making the ships that sail in this region risky ever since the Europeans arrived. The term 'Piracy in Indonesia' includes both cases of Indonesian pirates hijacking other cargo and tanks, as well as the high rate of practising piracy within the country itself. The Strait of Malacca is also one of the world's busiest shipping routes as it accounts for more than twenty-five percent of the world's barter goods that come mainly from China and Japan. Approximately 50,000 vessels worth of the world's trade employ the strait annually, including oil from the Persian Gulf and manufactured goods to the Middle East and Suez Canal. The success that stems from this trade portal makes the Strait an ideal location for pirate attacks.\n\nAccording to the International Maritime Bureau, the pirates are able to bypass authorities and elude detection by taking cover in numerous islands that readily surround the area. The region surrounding Indonesia alone has an estimate of over seventeen hundred islands and a seascape of tropical isles in which pirates are able to seek refuge. In addition, numerous major naval forces that use to patrol high seas has declined by fifty percent and this has adversely propelled the rate of pirate attacks in Indonesia. Many of these crimes are conducted for ransom, but there is a huge risk involved when these pirates are illegal syndicates who hijack tug boats, barges and large tankers. These containers carry explosive natural gases that can be used as weapons. The worry on piracy in Indonesia continues to soar when it was recorded back in 2012 that across the Indonesian archipelago, the number of petty thefts recorded was eighty-one and this accounts to more than one quarter of the world's piracy incidents. In addition, economic drivers such as poverty and corruption also accounts to the high rates of pirate attacks. As supported in a research article by David Rosenberg, the number of crimes has shot up ever since the 1997 currency crisis in Indonesia, driving numerous people to becoming pirates solely to earn a living wage. According to the Bali Times, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia are all responsible for patrolling their own regions and they do not have any jurisdiction beyond their water territories, making regional waters vulnerable and easy for pirates to escape. Furthermore, with Indonesia's coastline being twice as long as the perimeter of the earth, patrolling their water territory with slightly more than a dozen vessels is clearly inadequate. Within the first six months of 2012, Indonesia alone is responsible for twenty percent of the pirate attacks that happened globally.\n\nOver the last ten years, the number of pirate attacks in Indonesia has dropped. However, there are still numerous reports on piracy occurring along coastal areas and gulfs. In 2011, 15 attacks were recorded in the month of January alone, where five attacks amounted to the total number of crimes during the first quarter of that respective year. In addition, during the month of September in that same year, two incidences of pirate attacks were reported. The first group consisted of four Indonesian pirates who were being arrested where they confessed that they aided and abetted a larger syndicate that operated in the Strait of Malacca. The second group of attackers during that month included six Indonesian men who were being detained. They were suspects for a group of Indonesian pirates that allegedly boarded a merchant vessel in Singapore. During the attack, warning shots were being fired and the pirates fled the scene. It is believed that the group arrived from Batam, an island that was closely situated to the Strait.\n\nIn 2012, four pirates boarded a Bulk Carrier in Gresik Inner Anchorage, Indonesia, and entered the forward ship's store. They managed to escape when a crew spotted them, but the pirates made off with a few property from the store.\n\nBack in 2003, CNN reported that unless the Indonesian government enforces sea patrol, the crime rates for piracy will not be dropping anytime soon. However, after an attack back in the 1990s, Indonesia has partnered with Singapore and Malaysia to safeguard, monitor and ensure the security and safety of the water that borders outside their respective territory. One way to aid the problem, as reported by the International Maritime Bureau, is to be vigilant because pirates often abandon their attacks the moment they are being spotted. This is why the relationship between ship and water is vital. According to the Oceans Beyond Piracy, which is a project that looks to develop a multi-stakeholders response to piracy, they reported that a cooperative security measure undertaken by Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand ensures the security of the Strait of Malacca by instilling the Malacca Strait Patrols (MSP). The MSP comprises the Malacca Strait Sea Patrol (MSSP), the Eyes in the Sky (EiS) and the Intelligence Exchange Group (IEG) and the information that is being gathered on pirate attacks in Indonesia is being facilitated and shared between the countries. Furthermore, co-ordinated patrols have also been established. In September 2011, two warships were being deployed by Indonesia and Malaysia as part of a collaboration patrol to supervise pirate attacks at the Strait of Malacca. As recorded by Time World, an Indonesian naval officer claimed that they would be no match for the pirates back in 2004 because there were easy attacks-and-escape routes that made hunting these pirates down radically impossible. The number of attacks during 2004 also reached its crisis level. However, as of 2009, this problem has been countered as the rate of pirate crimes have dissipated. Although the number of pirate attacks that have occurred in the first quarter of the year in 2009 has almost doubled in comparison to the same period the year before, only one pirate attack took place in Indonesia as opposed to the 102 attacks that happened globally. The solution, as mentioned by the director of the International Marine Bureau in London, said that good coordination and cooperation from regional governments play a part in deterring the attacks on commercial shipping, because cohesive supervision leads to a riskier task for the pirates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13780922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13780922", "title": "Rinconada Bikol language", "text": "Rinconada Bikol language\n\nRinconada Bikol or simply Rinconada, spoken in the province of Camarines Sur, Philippines, is one of several languages that compose the Inland Bikol (or Southern Bicol) group of the Bikol macrolanguage. It belongs to the Austronesian language family that also includes most Philippine languages, the Formosan languages of Taiwanese aborigines, Malay (Bahasa Indonesia and Bahasa Malaysia), the Polynesian languages and Malagasy.\n\nRinconada is surrounded and shared common features with other Bikol languages. It is bordered by Coastal Bikol to the north, Buhinon to the east, and West Miraya language immediately to the south. The closest relatives to this language outside the Bicol region are Aklanon, Waray-Waray, and to a lesser extent, Tagalog, especially the variants used in Batangas and Marinduque.\n\nRinconada Bikol is the language adopted by the indigenous population of Agta/Aeta (the Negrito) in the surrounding mountainous areas of Mount Iriga (old name is Mount Asog). The Austronesian people that have migrated to the foot of Mount Asog from the lowland Nabua introduced the language to Negritos when they began conducting trade and commerce, thus replacing the native language of the latter. The original language of Negritos is \"Inagta\" also known to linguists as Mount Iriga Agta, an extinct or nearly extinct language. Inagta is said to have 86% intelligibility with Rinconada Bikol but with lexical similarity of 76%. Most Negritos or commonly called as Agta or Aeta (\"Ŋod\" for camaraderie) today are fluent in Rinconada Bikol though with a different variation.\n\nThe name \"Rinconada\" is derived from the Rinconada District in Camarines Sur where the language originated, developed and is largely spoken. However, the precise origins of how the term \"Rinconada\" was assigned to the area are still unclear. Popular wisdom ascribes the name to have come from the Spanish \"arrinconada\", \"cornered\", from the root \"rincón\" that means \"corner or small district\". Rinconada might have been given by the Spaniards to the then-newly explored and established colony in the southeastern corner of Luzon Island; natives formerly called the area \"Sumagang\" (Sumagaŋ), meaning \"far east\".\n\nAdding credence to the theory of a Spanish origin are the localities of La Rinconada in Spain and La Rinconada in Chile, which was also a former Spanish colony.\n\nThe language is divided into two main dialects and subdivided into six variants:\n\n\n(Soft accent with different types of intonation, and without ) \n\n• The Nabua-Balatan variant features high pitch intonation. Though it is the direct descendant of Rinconada Bikol but it lost some features of the original spoken language. The speakers can be found in the entire municipalities of Nabua and Balatan.\n\n• Iriga variant on the other hand has the most speakers. The speakers are concentrated in the district's center - Iriga City, in some of the important barangays of Buhi (West and East Sta. Justina and De Los Angeles), and the urban barangay of Matacon located in Polangui, Albay. The Iriga variant has a flat intonation and is spoken rapidly.\n\n• The Bato variant, on the other hand, has a distinctive mellow intonation. It is said that regardless of one's mood, the Bato speaker always sounds sleepy, as if they are chanting. The Bato variant is primarily being spoken in Bato, Camarines Sur and also spoken in Agos, Polangui, Albay.\n\n• The Agta variant is the smallest in the group. The speakers are exclusively the indigenous population of Agta/Aeta, the aboriginal people of different tribes surrounding Mount Iriga and Buhi lake. Like Iriga, the Agta variant also has a flat intonation but they speak the language with distinct form of pronunciation which can be traced from the group's extinct language.\n\n• The variants of Baao and Bula-Pili are considered twins. They have the same accent and only slight differences in vocabulary. Of the two variants, Baao often uses rising intonation, while Bula-Pili is moderately flat but both are using high pitch when reasoning. The latter variant is used entirely in Bula and in the southern half of the provincial capital town of Pili. It also has significant speakers in Ocampo, Cam. Sur and Minalabac, Cam. Sur. These two variants have borrowed some vocabularies of Coastal Bikol but at the same time, Bikol-Partido (a dialect of Coastal Bikol) can be heard with borrowed vocabularies from these two variants.\n\nList of phrases and expressions that are unique to each variant:\n\nBaao variant: \"Gaorag na!\"\nNabua – Balatan variant: \"Labinā kan.\"\nAgta variant: \"Mayaŋ na ŋod.\"\nBato variant: \"Ay tarā?\"\nBula – Pili variant: \"Paiŋōrag..\"\nIriga variant: \"Labinā man nâ!\"\n\nLike other Visayan and Bikol languages, Rinconada Bikol has a short form for the imperative.\n\ne.g.: \nThe phrase \"iyəwən mo\" (grill it) is often shortened to \"iyəwā\" and the command phrase \"punāsan mo a salmiŋ\" (wipe the mirror) can be shortened to \"punāsa a salmiŋ\".\n\nA special form is used when talking to elderly people in a polite manner. Instead of putting the letters \"ā/a\" after the root word of the verb, it has to be replaced by the letters \"e/ē\" if the statement will be politely delivered. The letter \"e\" or \"ē\" stands for \"tābî\" which means \"please\" in English, or \"po\" in Tagalog.\n\nExample 1: \n\"iyəw\" is a root word that means \"grill\". \n\"iyəwən\" means \"grill it\". \n\"iyəwən mo\" roughly means \"you, grill it\". \n\"iyəwā\" is the shortcut of the command \"iyəwən mo\". \n\"iyəwē\" is the shortened polite form for \"iyəwən mo tābî\" (grill it please).\n\nExample 2: \n\"punas\" is a root word that means \"wipe\". \n\"punasan\" means \"wipe it\". \n\"punasan mo\" roughly means \"you, wipe it\". \n\"punāsa\" is the shortcut of the command \"punāsan mo\". \n\"punāse\" is the shortened polite form for \"punāsan mo tābî\" (wipe it please).\n\nExample 3: \n\"īmo\" is a root word that means \"prepare\". \n\"imōon\" means \"prepare it\".\n\"imōon mo\" means \"you, prepare it\". \n\"imōa\" is the shortcut of the command \"imōon mo\". \n\"imōe\" is the shortened polite form for \"imōon mo tābî\" (please prepare it).\n\nSentences:<br>\nWhat is your name? - Onō a ŋaran mo? <br>\nMy name is Joseph. - Usē a ŋaran ko. (\"Usē\" is a rinconadized name of Spanish \"Jose\")<br>\nWhere do you come from? - Tagasārî ikā?<br>\nI'm from Pili, Camarines Sur. - Taga-Pili, Camarines Sur akō. <br>\nI love you so much. - Payabâ ta ikā sa igô./Payabâ ko ikā sa igô.<br>\nDo you like me? - Bəət mo 'kō?<br>\nWhat are you doing? - Onō a ginigībo mo?<br>\nI will go home. - Migpaulî na 'kō.<br>\nJohn is my brother - Ŋod ko si Uwan. (\"Uwan\" is a rinconadized name of Spanish \"Juan\") <br>\nDo you want to eat breakfast? - Bəət mo na'ŋ mamaəw?<br>\nI'm already eating - Nagkākaən na 'kō.<br>\nWhat time is it?/May I know what time is it? - Onōŋ ōras na?/Onōŋ ōras na tābî?<br>\nI will go out - Migluwas akō.<br>\nI can't sleep. - Dirî akō makatorog.<br>\nAre you afraid of the dark? - Nakatātakot ikā sa maŋitŋit?<br>\nHe said he will pick me up. - Sabi niyā susuŋkātən konō 'kō.<br>\nHow old are you? - Gaamnō na ikā (naykā) kaguraŋ?<br>\nWhen will you be back? - Kūnu ikā migbalik?\n\nFamily titles:<br>\nAmâ - Father<br>\nInâ - Mother<br>\nItay - Dad<br>\nInay - Mom<br>\nMānoy - older brother<br>\nMānay - older sister<br>\nTāta - Uncle<br>\nNāna - Auntie\n\nBasic question words:<br>\nOnō - What<br>\nIsay - Who<br>\nKūnu - When<br>\nŊātâ - Why<br>\nSārî - Where<br>\nPaōno - How<br>\nArî - Which<br>\nPirā - How many<br>\nMamirā - How much<br>\nGaamnō - \"(Indefinite question)\" Used to describe the degree or extent to which something is covered such as period or age, vastness or immensity and etc.\n\nGeneral Greetings: \nMaray na aldəw - Good day (from sunrise to sunset) \nMaray na gab-ī - Good evening (from sunset to sunrise) \n\nSpecific Greetings:\nMaray na ramrag - Good morning (from 6AM to 11AM)\nMaray na mudtū - Good noon (from 11AM to 1PM)\nMaray na apon - Good afternoon (from 1PM to 6PM)\nMaray na gab-ī - Good evening (from 6PM to 11PM)\nMaray na lawəd - Good midnight (from 11PM to 1AM)\nMaray na mararamrāgən - Good dawn (from 1AM to 6AM)\n\nPeople of Rinconada classify dim or dark hours as nighttime and light hours as daytime. As such, even with the introduction of Modern Standard Time, they consider the hours of 12 midnight until 6 o'clock in the morning as nighttime. Therefore, the general greeting from 6AM to 6PM is \"Maray na aldəw\", and \"Maray na gab-ī\" for the hours that start from 6PM to 6AM.\n\ne.g. Maray na mudtū tabî kaninyō ŋāmin!\n\nOccasional Greetings: \nMamə̄yaŋ Pagkaməndag! - Happy Birthday. \nMamə̄yaŋ Bāgoŋ Taon! - Happy New Year. \nMamə̄yaŋ Anibersāryo! - Happy Anniversary.\n\nRinconada Bikol vocabulary is rich in words with short or unstressed letter \"i\" sound. In fact, most root words with letter \"i\" are unstressed. However, not all words with \"i\" should be read and pronounced as such since there are several words that have stressed \" ī \", especially loanwords, e.g. sīli (chili). Native words (root word) with stressed \"ī\" are very rare.\n\nThe language retains the proto-Philippine schwa vowel that have disappeared in most Philippine languages like Cebuano, Tagalog and even the neighboring Coastal Bikol language. In Nabua, Camarines Sur (where the language is believed to be originated), the vowel also disappeared through the normal development and evolution. However, it was preserved by those who moved and migrated to the highland part of Rinconada around Mount Iriga (formerly Mount Asog) due to severe flooding on lowland, particularly in Nabua and Bula. Thus, preserving the vowel and has survived until this day in Sinabukid dialect.\n\nPeople who are new to the highland accent may find the Sinabukid dialect sounds like Ilokano, Pangasinense, or Karay-a of Antique province. The vowel can also be heard from the population in towns and cities speaking the Albay Bikol group of languages. The native word for this vowel in Rinconada is \"gəpə\", and this has divided the language into two dialects – Sinabukid or Highland (with ) and Sinaranəw or Lowland (without ).\n\nAside from the vowel , the other interesting thing in Rinconada language is the occurrence of an extra consonant phoneme . This consonant bears the sound of mixed letters \"h, y and \"w\". The neighboring language of Buhinon also uses this sound - a clear evidence of close ties between the two languages.\nUnfortunately, this phoneme neither has a corresponding letter in Philippine alphabet nor an equivalent character on Philippine standard keyboard. Thus, Rinconada Bikol speakers have no option but to use \"h\" as an alternative letter. However, in the spoken Sinaranəw dialect, the consonant and the vowel are often replaced by the letters \"w\" and \"o\" respectively.\n\nExamples of letter \n\n1. Mimaəw – will eat breakfast.\n\n2. Baəw – cold cooked rice.\n\n3. Taəp – a process of separating rice from its outside layer after milling. \"Tahip\" in Filipino/Tagalog.\n\n4. Daun – plant leaf.\n\n5. Taob – cover, protect, or conceal. \n\n\nThe letter in Rinconada is not the typical pronunciation of the vowel /e/ in other languages - such as the word \"beg\" and \"bell\" in English language, or the word \"metung\" in Kapampangan that means \"one\" - which sounds in IPA (open- or low-mid front unrounded vowel). The letter in Rinconada is pronounced similar to the letter-sequence in English, or the letter of most languages, but mouth is more open and tongue is a bit relaxed. In IPA it is , a close- or high-mid front unrounded vowel.\nSo its pronunciation lies in-between \"leed\"´s sound and \"led\"´s .\n\nThe difference between the letters and is that the latter pronounced longer or prolonged.\n\nExample: \"mutēte\" (IPA: muteːte) - chide, scold.\n\nUnlike other letters in Rinconada native alphabet, letter [ j ] is always accompanied by letter [ d ] if it is in the middle of a word. Otherwise, single [j] is to be placed. Moreover, it's the only non-gliding consonant that cannot be found at the end of a word in any native Rinconada vocabulary.\n\nSome words in native Rinconada and rinconadized words of foreign origin with letter [j]:\n\njamantē - \"diamond (from Spanish 'diamante').\"\njāday - \"again, always.\"\njāryo - \"newspaper (from Spanish 'diario').\" \njōlen - \"marble (toy).\" \npastidjō - \"nuisance (from Spanish 'fastidio')\"\nidjəw - \"a large and venomous snake.\" \noodjon - \"*no counterpart in English and Filipino (nearest meaning: 'jealous' or 'envious').\"\nsudjâ - \"prompted, investigated, an action for questioning.\"\nkadjapā - \"a thorny plant abundant in Bicol region, 'kulitis' in Tagalog (scientific name: Amaranthus Spinosus).\"\npadjak - \"a bicycle converted into tricycle powered by a human force (mode of transportation known in Metro Manila as 'kuliglig').\" \nsodjaŋ - \"a sharp piece of wood, metal or bamboo that gets in and stuck to the flesh accidentally\". \nlokadjô - \"a word used to address a dislike person being discussed in a conversation. It is a word included in Bikol Angry Speech Register.\" \npaŋadjî - \"prayer\".\n\nThrough language evolution, Rinconada Bikol almost lost the phoneme [h], hence, rare. It is often absent in most Rinconada words that are usually present in other Philippine languages.\n\nThere is no real [h] sound in Rinconada. It is either silent or glided that sounds like a long tonal vowel, or vowel lengthening. The [h] sound is silent if positioned at the beginning of a word, and glided if it is in between vowels. The Tagalog words such as \"hangin\", \"higop\" and \"hanggan\" are almost the same with Rinconada words but letter [h] is eliminated since it is not pronounced. The corresponding equivalent is \"aŋin\", \"igop\" and \"aŋgan\". Same with other Bikol words like \"harani\", \"harayo\", and \"habo\" which are \"arāni\", \"arayô\", and \"abə\" in Rinconada. While the glided [h] can be found in between two same letters like in \"baha\", \"saha\", \"kohol\", and \"mohon\".\n\nThe disappearance of phoneme [h] is an occurrence comparable (but not the same degree) to that of Kapampangan language. Nevertheless, Rinconada Bikol speakers can pronounce it with clarity and emphasis whenever they are speaking other languages where it is present.\n\nFor centuries under Spanish rules, Rinconada has adopted many words from Spanish language. There is a considerable number of Latin loans (sometimes obscured by being subject to Rinconada phonology and grammar for centuries), for example: \"estar\" (\"address or dwelling place\", from \"estar\" that means \"stay\"), \"soltēro\" (\"single\" but only applicable to male, from \"soltero\"), \"ūben\" (\"young\" from \"joven\"), \"ilyābe\" (\"key\", from \"llave\").\n\nOlder generations tend to use Spanish loanwords more often but younger generations tend to use Tagalog words and rinconadized words from English language especially the modern terminologies with no counterpart in native Rinconada Bikol vocabulary.\n\nExample:\n\n\"Bawas-bawāsan mo man ŋanî a pagkātiŋ mo lalô na kin arāni na a eksam.\" (Limit your habit of escaping class sessions especially when examination is approaching near).\n\nThe Tagalog word \"bawas-bawāsan\" is \"inâ-ināan\" in Rinconada and the word \"lalô\" is used in favor of the native word \"orog\". The word \"kātiŋ\" and \"eksam\" are rinconadized words of the English \"cutting\" (cutting classes or leaving the room during school hours with no permission), and \"exam\" (examination) respectively.\n\nThere is no official or \"de jure\" standard dialect of this language, though the Iriga dialect is used as the \"de facto\" standard for the following reasons:\n\n1. It retains the proto-Austronesian schwa vowel that helps eliminate homographs (words that are spelled the same way but have different pronunciations and meanings).\n2. The consonant phoneme is evident and pronounced more clearly.\n3. It has a neutralized and flat intonation which serves to moderate between variants.\n4. It has no continuum accent or fusion of variants in between boundaries. \"One example of continuum accent can be heard in barangays bordering Bula and Nabua which the speakers have mixed accents of Bula-Pili variant and Nabua-Balatan variant. Same thing can be heard in the boundaries of Baao and Nabua.\"\n5. Iriga City is the center of learning, trade and commerce in Rinconada. \n6. It has fewer loan words and is less influenced by neighboring languages than any other variant except Agta. \n7. It has been used for decades to represent Rinconada as a whole at the local and national level.\n8. It has the most number of speakers inside and outside the Rinconada area.\n9. There's no or little variation in accent among speakers. Whether a person resides in the northeasternmost part of Iriga bordering Bikol-Partido speakers or in the southernmost part of Matacon, Polangui bordering West Miraya speakers or in East Sta. Justina, Buhi bordering Buhinon speakers, all use the same accent with centralized intonation.\n\n\ne.g. \"lawəd\" (midnight) can be pronounced as \"lawod, lawəd or lawud\" by speakers but MUST be written officially as \"lawəd\" across variants.\n\nThe language is commonly called as Rinconada but officially called as Rinconada Bikol (de jure) and not Iriga Bikol, Irigueño, Baaoeño or Bikol Nabua.\n\nThe angry register is unique to Bicol languages as it cannot be found in other Austronesian languages inside and outside the Philippines. It is generally used only among same-age speakers or by older speakers to younger listeners, as usage by younger speakers in addressing their elders would constitute great disrespect. On occasion, the angry register is used in sarcasm or humor, but the majority of its usage is in anger.\n\nRinconada Bikol has contributed much to this unique feature of spoken languages of Bicolanos.\n\nExamples:\n\nSainigin is a group of selected words for babies and newly born. It is being used by parents to communicate with their babies easily and to train them how to talk, hence, an introductory language. It is often described as language for babies and commonly called as \"baby talk\". Words are limited to two syllables and features basic command. Several letters are absent such as \"r, g, s, j, and h\". Sainigin literally means \"talking or acting like a baby\".\n\nRinconada Bikol has several diphthongs or gliding vowel.\n\nRinconada uses a variation of Latin alphabet modeled on the Tagalog alphabet. But unlike the modern Tagalog - Filipino, Rinconada retains and uses diacritics ('kul-it' in Rinconada Bikol, and 'kudlit' in Tagalog). This is to highlight the meaning of the words and to differentiate words with different meanings but the same spelling. In return, the diacritics provide Rinconada Bikol with a unique orthography among Philippine languages. Diacritics for this language are limited to the macron and circumflex which is unlike other languages, for example Vietnamese that has several. However, due to technical difficulties and a scarcity of resources, diacritics are sometimes not available. Thus, two Rinconada alphabets were created to meet the needs of the speakers: the NATIVE and the SIMPLIFIED. Both can be used at the same time depending on the situation, purpose and availability of resources.\n\nThe Rinconada name for the letter which represents the glottal stop is \"rəgsad\". This can only be found in the native form of alphabet, and it is limited to final vowels or vowels at the end of a word. Rəgsad is represented by the circumflex ( ˆ ).\n\nFor examples of the glottal stop, consider the Rinconada words salâ (wrong) and turô (drop of water/fluid), often simply sala and turo in the simplified alphabet and in Filipino and English orthographies.\n\n\nRinconada Bikol was historically written in a form of Abugida writing system called Baybayin in Tagalog and Kul-ītan in Rinconada.\n\nThe Rinconada Native alphabet has 6 short vowels, 6 long vowels, and 17 consonants, a total of 29 letters representing all phonemes in Rinconada Bikol. A long or stressed vowel is written with a macron (a diacritic placed above a vowel). It also includes the velar nasal special character /ŋ/ that represents \"NG\". Native alphabet contains phonemes that are native to Rinconada, thus considering it as the standard Rinconada Bikol alphabet.\n\nExample of a Filipino proverb written in the Rinconada native alphabet:\n\n\"A dirî tattaoŋ maglīlî sa pinaŋgalinan, dirî makaaābot sa pig-iyānan.\" (Tagalog: )\n\n\nThe Rinconada Simplified alphabet is just the same as the Philippine alphabet. It has 28 letters:\n\nThe letters F, V and Z are included because they are native to other Philippine languages like Itawis and Ibanag. Letters C, Ñ, and Q are also included, but their usages are limited to foreign names, Filipinized words of foreign origins or loans, especially from Spanish, English and Arabic.\n\nThe simplified alphabet doesn't use diacritics like the macron for stressed and long vowels, the circumflex for glottal stop, or the letters for velar nasal , schwa , or velar fricative , as they don't appear on a standard \"qwerty\" keyboard. The velar nasal is replaced by the digraph , and the two latter sounds can be replaced by and , , and respectively. But even with the absence of diacritics in the modern and simplified alphabet, pronunciations in the spoken language are not altered. Moreover, the long vowel sound in a word should not be omitted. One good example of this is \"bə̄ət\" (kind) and \"bəət\" (want/like). The word bə̄ət in the native alphabet is written as bəət in the simplified alphabet making the two words the same in spelling albeit with different meanings. In this case, the pronunciation of the words depends on their place and usage in a sentence. To avoid confusion and aid in ease of reading, it is strongly recommended to use the native alphabet in writing Rinconada Bikol.\n\nNumbers and words (in native alphabet) are as follow:\n\nThere are no written records to indicate that Rinconada has native words for two-digit numbers (11 - 99). On the other hand, there is also no proof that the language has no indigenous words for those numbers. It is intriguing that Rinconada has native words for three-digit numbers (e.g. \"sanggatos\" for 100) but not for two digit numbers. Utilization and adaptation of foreign words via 333 years of Spanish colonization could be a reason why the native terminologies may not have been passed to the new generations. But a long established language needs a complete numbering system in words. Therefore, the reconstruction of words for 11-99 is necessary but needs to follow and retain the indigenous or original structural form of Rinconada's orthography.\n\nThe number words of 1 to 10 and 100 are all native Rinconada while numbers 11 to 99 are all reconstructed. However, the reconstructed numbers are based on the original structure. Sampōlô (number ten) or sampu in Filipino is the only two-digit number that has a native word with a perfect indigenous structural form. The evolution of the word \"sampōlô\" from \"əsadnapōlô\" follows the orthography of Rinconada and developed naturally over the years.\nBeing said, it is imperative that all reconstructed numbers must follow the same format of number 10.\n\nThe word sampōlô is derived from a portmanteau of the words əsad + na + pōlô (əsadnapōlô) which is the based tenth of one. In the evolution of this number, the schwa letter of became silent and so the word became \"sadnapōlô\". Same with other Philippine languages, /na/ is converted into /ŋ/, replaces the last consonant letter of the first word (which is /d/) and become the connector to the second word (which is pōlô) - thus, the letter /d/ is omitted and the word became \"saŋ\". The connector /ŋ/ becomes /m/ naturally if the next letter is /p/ or /b/ (which is also the case in other Philippine languages). So then, the word became sampōlô.\n\nStructure of sampōlô (10):\n1. əsad + na + pōlô = əsadnapōlô\n2. əsadnapōlô – /ə/ = sadnapōlô\n3. sadnapōlô – /d/ = sanapōlô\n4. replaced by = saŋpōlô\n5. replaced by before = sampōlô.\n\nFrom sampōlô, all two-digit numbers were given a name that was copied from it. The number 40 (pampōlô) and 60 (nəmpōlô) follow the same exact format of sampōlô. The exception to the naming system of numbers is the number zero (0). Though zero (0) is single digit, there is no native word for it. Since sampōlô (10) is a combination of 1 and 0, the word pōlô was taken out from it to represent zero (0) rather than using \"sīro\" or \"sēro\". As a result, Rinconada has a complete basic set of numbers without using foreign words.\n\nThe number referenced in Php 356,817,142,590 can be translated into Rinconada Bikol as:\n\"Toloŋgatos limamnəm na bilyon, waloŋgatos sampitoŋ milyon, saŋgatos pamdarwaŋ rībo ag limaŋgatos yampōloŋ pīso.\"\n\nIn ENGLISH language it is:\n\n\"Three hundred fifty six billion, eight hundred seventeen million, one-hundred forty two thousand and five hundred ninety pesos.\"\n\nIn FILIPINO language it is:\n\"Tatlong daan limampu't anim na bilyon, walong daan at labing pitong milyon, sandaan at apatnapu't dalawang libo at limang raan siyamnapung piso.\"\n\n\nAlthough properly considered separate languages, speakers of Rinconada Bikol or Rinconada can communicate with Albay Bikol speakers with ease and without code switching. A student from Ligao City (West Miraya speaker) studying in a university in Iriga City can understand Rinconada (any variant) and can be understood by Rinconada speakers as well. The same thing will happen if a local tourist from Rinconada visits the Cagsawa Ruins in Albay or visits Donsol, Sorsogon (East Miraya speaker) for the annual whale shark sightings. The difference between Rinconada and Albay Bikol (both are included in Inland Bikol group) is comparable to German and Yiddish or Portuguese and Galician, while the differences between variants are comparable to those between English US, English British and English Australian. The mutual intelligibility of Rinconada and Albay Bikol is 80% to 85%, while intelligibility between variants is 95% to 98%.\n\nRinconada Bikol is a minority language in the Bicol region despite having hundreds of thousands of speakers. It is currently not used in commercial media (print, radio, television) despite the fact that there are numerous prominent Rinconada speakers in the music and entertainment industry, media, and Philippine politics. It is not among the recognized regional languages in the Philippines and remains unknown to many Filipinos as it is poorly documented, researched and promoted.\n\nCurrently, the major obstacle to the diffusion of the usage and teaching of Rinconada is the lack of written material in Rinconada Bikol language, namely books, newspapers, software, magazines, etc. Thus, Rinconada, along with other Inland Bikol languages and the minor indigenous languages of Bicol region, remains essentially a spoken language.\n\nDue to everyday exposure of younger generations to Filipino/Tagalog and English languages in mass media and social networking sites, native words that are rarely used are now disappearing and being replaced by their counterparts from other languages. If cannot be salvaged by any means, this trend is more likely to continue and might endanger the language in the near future.\n\nThe only dictionary written for this language is \"Rinconada: Bikol-Filipino-English Phrasebook: with Mini-dictionary\" (2001) of Jason Lobel and Grace Bucad of Nabua, Camarines Sur. Several books were successfully created and published by native speakers and non-speakers alike. Some were published by Frank Peñones, Jason Chancoco, Rizaldy Manrique, Jonher Cañeba and Kristian Cordero of Iriga City. In 2004, the \"Ragang Rinaranga: mga rawitdawit\" which was published by Frank Peñones is the first anthology written in Rinconada Bikol.\n\nOn June 25, 2013, The Camarines Sur Polytechnic Colleges (CSPC), a state college in Nabua, Camarines Sur, established the \"Center for Rinconada Studies\" that will serve as the research center for Rinconada Bikol language and heritage.\n\nIn Bicol region, the language and its speakers earned the moniker: \"Pa-sādi pa-san, pa-sīni pa-sīton\", that literally means 'will go here will go there, will go here will go there' (two different Rinconada words with the same meaning, which is a form of humor if said repeatedly). The moniker is the result of the prominence of Rinconada speakers in the region. This is due to the fact that a native speaker travelling in the region can easily be distinguished and identified because his language is different from the vast majority of Bicolanos, and to the fact that several prominent Bicolanos in the Philippines are of Rinconada heritage, gives the language and the speakers a \"familiarity\" to others. That makes one throwing a humorous line (the moniker) to a person telling him that he is a Rinconada speaker.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRinconada is spoken by majority in Bula, Baao, Nabua, Balatan, Iriga and Bato in Camarines Sur (politically the 5th district of Camarines Sur province except the municipality of Buhi, where the majority speaks Buhinon). The language is dominant and the lingua franca in the southern half of the provincial capital town of Pili, the west barangays of Ocampo, and the far west barangays of Buhi; it can also be heard in neighboring places such as the northern barangays of Polangui and Libon in Albay.\n\nFigure:\n\nBased from the population of towns and city with a concentration of Rinconada Bikol speakers, the total number is 479,208 or almost half a million. This number is based from the population of the fifth district of Camarines Sur (Rinconada) and neighboring towns of Polangui and Pili, in which, Rinconada Bikol is their de facto daily language. Moreover, the total number does not include speakers outside Rinconada area. Some linguists place the native speaker population at 600,000 (estimate) because there are many speakers of this language outside the region who left in search for better job opportunities. Example of this are the Filipinos enlisted in US Navy that comes from Nabua, Camarines Sur which comprised the 10% of all Filipino US Servicemen. Most of these Rinconada speakers are now residing mostly in San Diego, California.\n"}
{"id": "40905817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40905817", "title": "Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership", "text": "Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership\n\nList of Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership recipients is a compilation of United States government executives who have received the Jones Award from the American University School of Public Affairs, an institution of higher education and research located in Washington, D.C. that grants academic degrees in fields such as political science, public administration, public policy, and justice, law and society. First awarded in 1978, the award has been presented every year since then to two United States federal career executives who have shown leadership in the training of federal government managers and executives and in organizational abilities.\n\nThe awards namesake, Roger W. Jones (1908 – 1993), was a federal civil servant who helped direct the Office of Management and Budget in the 1940s and 1950s. In 1978, Bernard Rosen, a former United States Civil Service Commission executive director, graduate instructor at the American University, and subsequent author of the 1984 book \"Holding Government Bureaucracies Accountable,\" helped start American University's Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership in federal government. In 2002, Victor J. Ferlise, United States Army Deputy to the Commanding General, Communications Electronic Command, received the award on September 24, which marked the 25th anniversary of the award.\n\n"}
{"id": "848420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=848420", "title": "Salon (gathering)", "text": "Salon (gathering)\n\nA salon is a gathering of people under the roof of an inspiring host, held partly to amuse one another and partly to refine the taste and increase the knowledge of the participants through conversation. These gatherings often consciously followed Horace's definition of the aims of poetry, \"either to please or to educate\" (Latin: \"aut delectare aut prodesse\"). Salons, commonly associated with French literary and philosophical movements of the 17th and 18th centuries, were carried on until as recently as the 1940s in urban settings.\n\nThe salon was an Italian invention of the 16th century, which flourished in France throughout the 17th and 18th centuries. The salon continued to flourish in Italy throughout the 19th century. In 16th-century Italy, some brilliant circles formed in the smaller courts which resembled salons, often galvanized by the presence of a beautiful and educated patroness such as Isabella d'Este or Elisabetta Gonzaga. \n\nOne important place for the exchange of ideas was the salon. The word \"salon\" first appeared in France in 1664 (from the Italian word \"salone\", itself from \"sala\", the large reception hall of Italian mansions). Literary gatherings before this were often referred to by using the name of the room in which they occurred, like \"cabinet\", \"réduit\", \"ruelle\" and \"alcôve\". Before the end of the 17th century, these gatherings were frequently held in the bedroom (treated as a more private form of drawing room): a lady, reclining on her bed, would receive close friends who would sit on chairs or stools drawn around. This practice may be contrasted with the greater formalities of Louis XIV's \"petit lever\", where all stood. \"Ruelle\", literally meaning \"narrow street\" or \"lane\", designates the space between a bed and the wall in a bedroom; it was used commonly to designate the gatherings of the \"précieuses\", the intellectual and literary circles that formed around women in the first half of the 17th century. The first renowned salon in France was the Hôtel de Rambouillet not far from the Palais du Louvre in Paris, which its hostess, Roman-born Catherine de Vivonne, marquise de Rambouillet (1588–1665), ran from 1607 until her death. She established the rules of etiquette of the salon which resembled the earlier codes of Italian chivalry.\n\nThe history of the salon is far from straightforward. The salon has been studied in depth by a mixture of feminist, Marxist, cultural, social and intellectual historians. Each of these methodologies focuses on different aspects of the salon, and thus have varying analyses of its importance in terms of French history and the Enlightenment as a whole\n\nMajor historiographical debates focus on the relationship between the salons and the public sphere, as well as the role of women within the salons.Breaking down the salons into historical periods is complicated due to the various historiographical debates that surround them. Most studies stretch from the early 16th century up until around the end of the 18th century. Goodman is typical in ending her study at the French Revolution where, she writes: 'the literary public sphere was transformed into the political public'. Steven Kale is relatively alone in his recent attempts to extend the period of the salon up until Revolution of 1848.A whole world of social arrangements and attitude supported the existence of French salons: an idle aristocracy, an ambitious middle class, an active intellectual life, the social density of a major urban center, sociable traditions, and a certain aristocratic feminism. This world did not disappear in 1789.In the 1940s salons hosted by Gertrude Stein gained notoriety for including Pablo Picasso and other twentieth-century luminaries like Alice B. Toklas.\n\nModern-day literary salons are held by Pin Drop Studio in London, open-invitation gatherings at cultural institutions such The Royal Academy of Arts, BAFTA, The British Institute, Dr Johnson's House and other cultural venues in London and other cities around the world, hosted by Pin Drop co-founder Simon Oldfield.\n\nPin Drop Studio salons include a short story read in its entirety by guest actors, such as Juliet Stevenson, Eileen Atkins, Sian Phillips, Ed Stoppard, Selma Blair, Maura Tierney and Russell Tovey, thinkers such as Stephen Fry, Prof. Richard Dawkins and A. C. Grayling, and authors including Lionel Shriver, Will Self, Graham Swift, Ben Okri, A. L. Kennedy and Julian Barnes. Artist Sir Peter Blake has also appeared.\n\nSalon sociability quickly spread through Europe. In the 18th and 19th centuries, many large cities in Europe held salons along the lines of the Parisian models.\n\nPrior to the formation of Belgium, Béatrix de Cusance hosted a salon in Brussels in what was then the Spanish Netherlands in the mid 17th-century. In the late 18th-century, the political salon of Anne d'Yves played a role in the Brabant Revolution of 1789.\n\nIn Belgium, the 19th century salon hosted by Constance Trotti attracted cultural figures, the Belgian aristocracy and members of the French exiled colony.\n\nIn Denmark, the salon culture was adopted during the 18th century. Christine Sophie Holstein and Charlotte Schimmelman were the most notable hostesses, in the beginning and in the end of the 18th century respectively, both of whom were credited with political influence. During the Danish Golden Age in the late 18th century and early 19th century, the literary salon played a significant part in Danish culture life, notably the literary salons arranged by Friederike Brun at Sophienholm and that of Kamma Rahbek at Bakkehuset.\n\nIn Germany, the most famous were held by Jewish ladies, such as Henriette Herz, Sara Grotthuis, and Rahel Varnhagen, and in Austria in the late 18th and early 19th centuries by two prominent Jewish Patrons of the Arts: Adele Bloch-Bauer and Berta Zuckerkandl. In Spain, by María del Pilar Teresa Cayetana de Silva y Álvarez de Toledo, 13th Duchess of Alba at the end of the 18th century; and in Greece by Alexandra Mavrokordatou in the 17th century.\n\nIncreasingly emancipated German-speaking Jews wanted to immerse themselves in Germany's rich cultural life. However, individual Jews were faced with a dilemma: they faced new opportunities, but without the comfort of a secure community. For Jewish women, there was an additional issue. German society imposed the usual gender role restrictions \"and\" antisemitism, so cultivated Jewish women tapped into the cultural salon. But from 1800 on, salons performed a political and social miracle. The salon allowed Jewish women to establish a venue in their homes in which Jews and non-Jews could meet in relative equality. Like-minded people could study art, literature, philosophy or music together. This handful of educated, acculturated Jewish women could escape the restrictions of their social ghetto. Naturally the women had to be in well-connected families, either to money or to culture. In these mixed gatherings of nobles, high civil servants, writers, philosophers and artists, Jewish salonnières created a radical vehicle for democratisation, providing a context in which patrons and artists freely exchanged ideas. Henriette Lemos Herz, Fanny Mendelssohn Hensel, Dorothea Mendelssohn Schlegel, Amalie Wolf Beer and at least twelve other salonnières achieved fame and admiration.\n\nIn 18th century England, salons were held by Elizabeth Montagu, in whose salon the expression blue stockings originated, and who created the Blue Stockings Society, and by Hester Thrale. In the 19th century, the Russian Baroness Méry von Bruiningk hosted a salon in St. John's Wood, London, for refugees (mostly German) of the revolutions of 1848 (the Forty-Eighters). Clementia Taylor, an early feminist and radical held a salon at Aubrey House in Campden Hill in the 1860s. Her salon was attended by Moncure D. Conway, Louisa May Alcott, Arthur Munby, feminists Barbara Bodichon, Lydia Becker, Elizabeth Blackwell, and Elizabeth Malleson. Holland House in Kensington under the Fox family in the late 18th and early 19th centuries was akin to a French salon, largely for adherents to the Whig Party.\n\nItaly had had an early tradition of the salon; Giovanna Dandolo became known as a patron and gatherer of artists as wife of Pasquale Malipiero, the doge in Venice in 1457-1462, and the courtisan Tullia d'Aragona held a salon already in the 16th century, and in the 17th century Rome, the abdicated Queen Christina of Sweden and the princess Colonna, Marie Mancini, rivaled as salon hostesses.\n\nThe tradition of the literary salon continued to flourish in Italy throughout the 19th century. Naturally there were many salons with some of the most prominent being hosted by Clara Maffei in Milan, Emilia Peruzzi in Florence and Olimpia Rossi Savio in Turin. The salons attracted countless outstanding 19th-century figures including the romantic painter Francesco Hayez, composer Giuseppe Verdi and naturalist writers Giovanni Verga, Bruno Sperani and Matilde Serao. The salons served a very important function in 19th-century Italy, as they allowed young attendees to come into contact with more established figures. They also served as a method of avoiding government censorship, as a public discussion could be held in private. The golden age of the salon in Italy could be said to coincide with the pre-unification period, after which the rise of the newspaper replaced the salon as the main place for the Italian public to engage in conversation.\n\nArgentina's most active female figure in the revolutionary process, Mariquita Sánchez, was Buenos Aires' leading \"salonnière\". She fervently embraced the cause of revolution, and her \"tertulia\" gathered all the leading personalities of her time. The most sensitive issues were discussed there, as well as literary topics. Mariquita Sánchez is widely remembered in the Argentine historical tradition because the Argentine National Anthem was sung for the first time in her house, on 14 May 1813.\n\nIn Poland, the duchess Sieniawska held a salon in the end of the 17th century. They became very popular there during the 18th century. The most renowned were the Thursday Dinners of King Stanisław II Augustus at the end of the 18th century, and the most notable \"salonnières\" were Zofia Lubomirska and Izabela Czartoryska.\n\nThe salon culture was introduced to Imperial Russia during the Westernization Francophile culture of the Russian aristocracy in the 18th-century. During the 19th-century, several famous salon functioned hosted by the nobility in Saint Petersburg and Moscow, among the most famed being the literary salon of Zinaida Volkonskaya in 1820s Moscow.\n\nIn Sweden, the salon developed during the late 17th century and flourished until the late 19th century. During the 1680s and 1690s, the salon of countess Magdalena Stenbock became a meeting where foreign ambassadors in Stockholm came to make contacts, and her gambling table was described as a center of Swedish foreign policy.\n\nDuring the Swedish age of liberty (1718-1772), women participated in political debate and promoted their favorites in the struggle between the \nCaps (party) and the Hats (party) through political salons. These forums were regarded influential enough for foreign powers to engage some of these women as agents to benefit their interests in Swedish politics.\nThe arguably most noted political salonniére of the Swedish age of liberty was countess Hedvig Catharina De la Gardie (1695–1745), whose salon has some time been referred to as the first in Sweden, and whose influence on state affairs exposed her to libelous pamphlets and made her a target of Olof von Dahlin's libelous caricature of the political salon hostess in 1733. Magdalena Elisabeth Rahm was attributed to have contributed to the realization of the Russo-Swedish War (1741–1743) through the campaign for the war she launched in her salon. \nOutside of politics, Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht acted as the hostess of the literary academy \"Tankebyggarorden\" and Anna Maria Lenngren did the same for the Royal Swedish Academy.\n\nDuring the reign of Gustavian age, the home of Anna Charlotta Schröderheim came to be known as a center of opposition. Salon hostesses were still attributed influence in politic affairs in the first half of the 19th century, which was said of both Aurora Wilhelmina Koskull in the 1820s as well as Ulla De Geer in the 1840s.\n\nIn the 19th century, however, the leading salon hostesses in Sweden became more noted as the benefactors of the arts and charity than with politics. From 1820 and two decades onward, Malla Silfverstolpe became famous for her Friday nights salon in Uppsala, which became a center of the Romantic era in Sweden and, arguably the most famed literary salon in Sweden. During the 1860s and 1870s, the \"Limnell Salon\" of the rich benefactor Fredrika Limnell in Stockholm came to be a famous center of the Swedish cultural elite, were especially writers gathered to make contact with wealthy benefactors, a role which was eventually taken over by the \"Curman Receptions\" of Calla Curman in the 1880s and 1890s.\n\nIn Iberia or Latin America, a tertulia is a social gathering with literary or artistic overtones. The word is originally Spanish and has only moderate currency in English, in describing Latin cultural contexts. Since the 20th century, a typical \"tertulia\" has moved out from the private drawing-room to become a regularly scheduled event in a public place such as a bar, although some tertulias are still held in more private spaces. Participants may share their recent creations (poetry, short stories, other writings, even artwork or songs).\n\nIn Switzerland, the salon culture was extant in the mid 18th-century, represented by Julie Bondeli in Bern and Barbara Schulthess in Zürich, and the salon of Anna Maria Rüttimann-Meyer von Schauensee reached in influential role in the early 19th-century.\n\nIn Coppet close to Geneva, the author Germaine de Staël hosted a salon which played a key role in the aftermath of the French Revolution and especially under Napoleon Bonaparte's Regime. De Staël is author of around thirty publication, from which \"De L'allemagne\" (1813) was the most well-known in its time. She has been painted by such famous painters as François Gérard and Elisabeth Vigée-Lebrun.\n\nMartha Washington, the first U.S. First Lady, performed a function similar to the host or hostess of the European salon. She held weekly public receptions throughout her husband's eight-year presidency (1789–1797). At these gatherings, members of Congress, visiting foreign dignitaries, and ordinary citizens alike were received at the executive mansion. More recently, \"society hostesses\" such as Perle Mesta have done so as well. The Stettheimer sisters, including the artist Florine Stettheimer, hosted gatherings at their New York City home in the 1920s and '30s. During the Harlem Renaissance, Ruth Logan Roberts, Georgia Douglas Johnson and Zora Neale Hurston hosted salons that brought together leading figures in African-American literature, and in the culture and politics of Harlem at the time.\n\nThe content and form of the salon to some extent defines the character and historical importance of the salon. Contemporary literature about the salons is dominated by idealistic notions of politesse, civilité and honnêteté, but whether the salons lived up to these standards is matter of debate. Older texts on the salons tend to paint an idealistic picture of the salons, where reasoned debate takes precedence and salons are egalitarian spheres of polite conversation. Today, however, this view is rarely considered an adequate analysis of the salon. Dena Goodman claims that rather than being leisure based or 'schools of civilité' salons were instead at 'the very heart of the philosophic community' and thus integral to the process of Enlightenment. In short, Goodman argues, the 17th and 18th century saw the emergence of the academic, Enlightenment salons, which came out of the aristocratic 'schools of civilité'. Politeness, argues Goodman, took second-place to academic discussion.\n\nThe period in which salons were dominant has been labeled the 'age of conversation'. The topics of conversation within the salons - that is, what was and was not 'polite' to talk about - are thus vital when trying to determine the form of the salons. The salonnières were expected, ideally, to run and moderate the conversation (See Women in the salon). There is, however, no universal agreement among historians as to what was and was not appropriate conversation. Marcel Proust 'insisted that politics was scrupulously avoided'. Others suggested that little other than government was ever discussed. The disagreements that surround the content of discussion partly explain why the salon's relationship with the public sphere is so heavily contested. Individuals and collections of individuals that have been of cultural significance overwhelmingly cite some form of engaged, explorative conversation regularly held with an esteemed group of acquaintances as the source of inspiration for their contributions to culture, art, literature and politics, leading some scholars to posit the salon's influence on the public sphere as being more widespread than previously appreciated.\n\nRecent historiography of the salons has been dominated by Jürgen Habermas' work, \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" (triggered largely by its translation into French, in 1978, and then English, in 1989), which argued that the salons were of great historical importance. Theatres of conversation and exchange – such as the salons, and the coffeehouses in England – played a critical role in the emergence of what Habermas termed the \"public sphere\", which emerged in \"cultural-political contrast\" to court society. Thus, while women retained a dominant role in the historiography of the salons, the salons received increasing amounts of study, much of it in direct response to, or heavily influenced by Habermas’ theory.\n\nThe most prominent defence of salons as part of the public sphere comes from Dena Goodman’s \"The Republic of Letters\", which claims that the ‘public sphere was structured by the salon, the press and other institutions of sociability’. Goodman’s work is also credited with further emphasising the importance of the salon in terms of French history, the Republic of Letters and the Enlightenment as a whole, and has dominated the historiography of the salons since its publication in 1994.\n\nHabermas’ dominance in salon historiography has come under criticism from some quarters, with Pekacz singling out Goodman’s \"Republic of Letters\" for particular criticism because it was written with ‘the explicit intention of supporting [Habermas’] thesis’, rather than verifying it. The theory itself, meanwhile, has been criticised for a fatal misunderstanding of the nature of salons. The main criticism of Habermas’ interpretation of the salons, however, is that the salons of most influence were not part of an oppositional public sphere, and were instead an extension of court society.\n\nThis criticism stems largely from Norbert Elias’ \"The History of Manners\", in which Elias contends that the dominant concepts of the salons – politesse, civilité and honnêteté – were ‘used almost as synonyms, by which the courtly people wished to designate, in a broad or narrow sense, the quality of their own behaviour’. Joan Landes agrees, stating that, ‘to some extent, the salon was merely an extension of the institutionalised court’ and that rather than being part of the public sphere, salons were in fact in conflict with it. Erica Harth concurs, pointing to the fact that the state ‘appropriated the informal academy and not the salon’ due to the academies’ ‘tradition of dissent’ – something that lacked in the salon. But Landes’ view of the salons as a whole is independent of both Elias’ and Habermas’ school of thought, insofar that she views the salons as a ‘unique institution’, that cannot be adequately described as part of the public sphere, or court society. Others, such as Steven Kale, compromise by declaring that the public and private spheres overlapped in the salons. Antoine Lilti ascribes to a similar viewpoint, describing the salons as simply ‘institutions within Parisian high society’.\n\nWhen dealing with the salons, historians have traditionally focused upon the role of women within them. Works in the 19th and much of the 20th centuries often focused on the scandals and ‘petty intrigues’ of the salons. Other works from this period focused on the more positive aspects of women in the salon. Indeed, according to Jolanta T. Pekacz, the fact women dominated history of the salons meant that study of the salons was often left to amateurs, while men concentrated on 'more important' (and masculine) areas of the Enlightenment.\n\nHistorians tended to focus on individual salonnières, creating almost a 'great-woman' version of history that ran parallel to the Whiggish, male dominated history identified by Herbert Butterfield. Even in 1970, works were still being produced that concentrated only on individual stories, without analysing the effects of the salonnières' unique position. The integral role that women played within salons, as salonnières, began to receive greater - and more serious - study in latter parts of the 20th century, with the emergence of a distinctly feminist historiography. The salons, according to Carolyn Lougee, were distinguished by 'the very visible identification of women with salons', and the fact that they played a positive public role in French society. General texts on the Enlightenment, such as Daniel Roche's \"France in the Enlightenment\" tend to agree that women were dominant within the salons, but that their influence did not extend far outside of such venues.\n\nIt was, however, Goodman’s \"The Republic of Letters\" that ignited a real debate surrounding the role of women within the salons and the Enlightenment as a whole. According to Goodman: ‘The salonnières were not social climbers but intelligent, self-educated, and educating women who adopted and implemented the values of the Enlightenment Republic of Letters and used them to reshape the salon to their own social intellectual, and educational needs’.\n\nWealthy members of the aristocracy have always drawn to their court poets, writers and artists, usually with the lure of patronage, an aspect that sets the court apart from the salon. Another feature that distinguished the salon from the court was its absence of social hierarchy and its mixing of different social ranks and orders. In the 17th and 18th centuries, \"salon[s] encouraged socializing between the sexes [and] brought nobles and bourgeois together\". Salons helped facilitate the breaking down of social barriers which made the development of the enlightenment salon possible. In the 18th century, under the guidance of Madame Geoffrin, Mlle de Lespinasse, and Madame Necker, the salon was transformed into an institution of Enlightenment. The enlightenment salon brought together Parisian society, the progressive philosophes who were producing the \"Encyclopédie\", the Bluestockings and other intellectuals to discuss a variety of topics.\n\nAt that time women had powerful influence over the salon. Women were the center of life in the salon and carried very important roles as regulators. They could select their guests and decide the subjects of their meetings. These subjects could be social, literary, or political topics of the time. They also served as mediators by directing the discussion.\n\nThe salon was an informal education for women, where they were able to exchange ideas, receive and give criticism, read their own works and hear the works and ideas of other intellectuals. Many ambitious women used the salon to pursue a form of higher education.\n\nTwo of the most famous 17th-century literary salons in Paris were the Hôtel de Rambouillet, established in 1607 near the Palais du Louvre by the marquise de Rambouillet, where gathered the original précieuses, and, in 1652 in Le Marais, the rival salon of Madeleine de Scudéry, a long time \"habituée\" of the Hôtel de Rambouillet. , borrowed from England's \"blue-stockings,\" soon found itself in use upon the attending ladies, a nickname continuing to mean \"intellectual woman\" for the next three hundred years.\nParis salons of the 18th century hosted by women include the following:\n\n\nSome 19th-century salons were more inclusive, verging on the raffish, and centered around painters and \"literary lions\" such as Madame Récamier. After the shock of the 1870 Franco-Prussian War, French aristocrats withdrew from the public eye. However, Princess Mathilde still held a salon in her mansion, rue de Courcelles, later rue de Berri. From the middle of the 19th century until the 1930s, a lady of society had to hold her \"day\", which meant that her \"salon\" was opened for visitors in the afternoon once a week, or twice a month. Days were announced in \"Le Bottin Mondain\". The visitor gave his visit cards to the lackey or the \"maître d'hôtel\", and he was accepted or not. Only people who had been introduced previously could enter the \"salon\".\n\nMarcel Proust called up his own turn-of-the-century experience to recreate the rival salons of the fictional duchesse de Guermantes and Madame Verdurin. He experienced himself his first social life in \"salons\" such as Mme Arman de Caillavet's one, which mixed artists and political men around Anatole France or Paul Bourget; Mme Straus' one, where the cream of the aristocracy mingled with artists and writers; or more aristocratic \"salons\" like Comtesse de Chevigné's, Comtesse Greffulhe's, Comtesse Jean de Castellane's, Comtesse Aimery de La Rochefoucauld's, etc. Some late 19th- and early 20th-century Paris salons were major centres for contemporary music, including those of Winnaretta Singer (the princesse de Polignac), and Élisabeth, comtesse Greffulhe. They were responsible for commissioning some of the greatest songs and chamber music works of Fauré, Debussy, Ravel and Poulenc.\n\nUntil the 1950s, some \"salons\" were held by ladies mixing political men and intellectuals during the IVth Republic, like Mme Abrami, or Mme Dujarric de La Rivière. The last salons in Paris were those of Marie-Laure de Noailles, with Jean Cocteau, Igor Markevitch, Salvador Dalí, etc., Marie-Blanche de Polignac (Jeanne Lanvin's daughter) and Madeleine and Robert Perrier, with Josephine Baker, Le Corbusier, Django Reinhardt, etc.\n\nThe word salon also refers to art exhibitions. The Paris Salon was originally an officially sanctioned exhibit of recent works of painting and sculpture by members of the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture, starting in 1673 and soon moving from the Salon Carré of the Palace of the Louvre.\n\nThe name \"salon\" remained, even when other quarters were found and the exhibits' irregular intervals became biennial. A jury system of selection was introduced in 1748, and the salon remained a major annual event even after the government withdrew official sponsorship in 1881.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31339491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31339491", "title": "Sittard dialect", "text": "Sittard dialect\n\nThe Sittard dialect (\"Zittesj\") is a Limburgish dialect spoken mainly in the Dutch city of Sittard. It is also spoken in Koningsbosch and in a small part of Germany (Selfkant), but quickly becoming extinct there. Of all other important Limburgish dialects, the dialect of Sittard is most closely related to that of the .\n\nThe Sittard dialect belongs to , which means it has a postalveolar consonant at the onset of words beginning with clusters such as \"sl\" and \"st\", in contrast with other variants of Limburgish such as Maastrichtian and in Dutch. \n\nThe most important characteristic which distinguishes the dialect of Sittard from adjacent Limburgish dialects is the occurrence of the diphthongs \"ei\" and \"ou\", instead of \"ee\" and \"oo\" in words such as \"neit\" (\"not\"), \"veil\" (\"fall\") \"beier\" (\"beer\") and \"awd\" (\"old\"). This phenomenon was first examined thoroughly in the first half of the 1940s by Willy Dols, who showed that this Sittard diphthongization typically occurred in syllables with a push tone. New research at the beginning of the 21st century has shown that the diphthongization once served to emphasize the difference in vowel length which distinguishes syllables with a push tone from those with a dragging tone.\n\n"}
{"id": "766087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766087", "title": "Street newspaper", "text": "Street newspaper\n\nStreet newspapers (or street papers) are newspapers or magazines sold by homeless or poor individuals and produced mainly to support these populations. Most such newspapers primarily provide coverage about homelessness and poverty-related issues, and seek to strengthen social networks within homeless communities. Street papers aim to give these individuals both employment opportunities and a voice in their community. In addition to being sold by homeless individuals, many of these papers are partially produced and written by them.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries several publications by charity, religious, and labor organizations tried to draw attention to the homeless, but street newspapers only became common after the founding of New York City's \"Street News\" in 1989. Similar papers are now published in over 30 countries, with most located in the United States and Western Europe. They are supported by governments, charities, and coalitions such as the International Network of Street Papers and the North American Street Newspaper Association. Although street newspapers have multiplied, many still face challenges, including funding shortages, unreliable staff and difficulty in generating interest and maintaining an audience.\n\nStreet newspapers are sold mainly by homeless individuals, but the newspapers vary in how much content is submitted by them and how much of the coverage pertains to them: while some papers are written and published mainly by homeless contributors, others have a professional staff and attempt to emulate mainstream publications. These differences have caused controversy among street newspaper publishers over what type of material should be covered and to what extent the homeless should participate in writing and production. One popular street newspaper, \"The Big Issue\", has been a focus of this controversy because it concentrates on attracting a large readership through coverage of mainstream issues and popular culture, whereas other newspapers emphasize homeless advocacy and social issues and earn less of a profit.\n\nAlthough the modern street newspaper began with the 1989 publication of \"Street News\" in New York City, and the Street Sheet in San Francisco, 1989, newspapers sold by the poor and homeless to generate income and to bring attention to social problems date back to the late 19th century; journalism scholar Norma Fay Green has cited \"The War Cry\", created by the Salvation Army in London in 1879, as an early form of \"dissident, underground, alternative publication\". \"The War Cry\" was sold by Salvation Army officers and the working poor to draw people's attention to the poor living conditions of these individuals. Another precursor to the modern street newspaper was Cincinnati's \"Hobo News\", which ran from 1915 to 1930 and featured writing from prominent labor and social activists as well as Industrial Workers of the World members, alongside contributions of oral history, creative writing, and artwork from hoboes, or itinerant beggars. Most street papers published before 1970, such as \"The Catholic Worker\" (founded in 1933), were affiliated with religious organizations. Like workers' papers and other forms of alternative media in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, early street newspapers were often created because the founders believed mainstream news did not cover issues that were relevant to ordinary people.\n\nModern street newspapers began to emerge in the United States in the late 1980s in response to increasing levels of homelessness and homeless advocates' dissatisfaction with the mainstream media's portrayals of the homeless. At the time, many media outlets portrayed homeless people as being all criminals and drug addicts, and suggested that homelessness was a result of laziness rather than societal or political factors. Thus, one motivation for the creation of the first street newspapers was to counter the negative coverage of homeless people that was coming from existing media.\n\n\"Street News,\" founded in late 1989 in New York City, is frequently cited as the first modern street newspaper. While some small papers were already being published when it was founded, \"Street News\" attracted the most attention and became the \"catalyst\" for many other papers. Many more street papers were launched in the early 1990s, crediting the high-profile New York paper as their inspiration, such as \"Spare Change News\" in Boston founded in 1992. During this period, an average of five new papers were created every year. This growth has been attributed both to changing attitudes and policies towards homeless individuals and to the ease of publishing provided by desktop computers; After 1989, at least 100 papers sprung up in over 30 countries. By 2008, an estimated 32 million people worldwide read street newspapers, and 250,000 poor, disadvantaged, or homeless individuals sold or contributed to them.\nStreet papers have been started in many major cities worldwide, mainly in the United States and Western Europe. They have especially proliferated in Germany, which in 1999 had more street newspapers than the rest of Europe combined, and in Sweden, where the street papers \"Aluma\", \"Situation Sthlm\" and \"Faktum\" won the 2006 grand prize award for journalism of the Swedish Publicists' Association. Street papers have been established in some cities in Canada, Africa, South America, and Asia. Even within the United States, some street newspapers (such as Chicago's bilingual \"Hasta Cuando\") are published in languages other than English.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, coalitions were established to strengthen the street newspaper movement. The International Network of Street Papers (INSP) (founded in 1994) and the North American Street Newspaper Association (NASNA) (founded in 1997) aim to provide support for street papers and to \"uphold ethical standards\". In particular, the INSP was established to help groups that were starting new street newspapers, to bring more mainstream media attention to the street newspaper movement during the 1990s, and to support interaction and cross-talk between street paper publishers and staff from different countries. The INSP and the NASNA voted to combine their resources in 2006; they have collaborated to found the Street News Service, a project which collects articles from member papers and archives them on the internet. National street paper coalitions have also been formed in Europe (there is a national coalition in Italy, and the Netherlands has the \"Straatmedia Groep Nederland\").\n\nMost street newspapers have three main purposes:\n\nThe defining characteristic of a street newspaper is that it is sold by homeless or marginalized vendors. While many street newspapers aim to provide coverage of social issues and educate the public about homelessness, this goal is often secondary: many people who buy street newspapers do so to support and express solidarity with the homeless vendor, rather than to read the paper.\n\nThe precise demographics of the readership of street newspapers is unclear. A pair of 1993 surveys conducted by Chicago's \"StreetWise\" suggested that the paper's readers at the time tended to be college-educated, with slightly over half being female, and slightly over half unmarried.\n\nMost street newspapers operate by selling the papers to homeless vendors for a fraction of the retail price (usually between 10% and 50%), after which the vendors sell the papers for the retail price and retain all the proceeds from street sales. The income vendors earn from sales is intended to help them \"get back on their feet\". The purpose of requiring vendors to purchase papers up front and earn back the money by selling them is to help them develop skills in financial management. Vendors for most newspapers are identifiable by badges or messenger bags. Many newspapers require that vendors sign a code of conduct or otherwise \"clean up their act\".\n\nMost street newspaper vendors in the United States and United Kingdom are homeless individuals, although in several other countries (especially in Europe) papers are mainly sold by refugees. Nevertheless, not all vendors are homeless; some have stable housing situations but are unable to hold other jobs, while others started out homeless but were eventually able to use their income from sales to find housing. In general, the major American street newspapers do not require prospective vendors to show proof of homelessness or poverty, and they do not require vendors to retire once they find stable housing. In the United States, since 2008 there have been a growing number of vendors who are \"newly needy\"—only recently homeless, or with only temporary financial difficulty—as opposed to the \"chronically homeless\" who have traditionally made up the majority of the vendor force. These vendors are often well-educated and have extensive work experience, but lost their jobs in the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nStreet papers start in a variety of ways. Some, such as \"Street Sense\", are begun by homeless or formerly homeless individuals, whereas others are more professional ventures. Many, particularly in the United States, receive aid from local government and charities, and coalitions such as the International Network of Street Papers and the North American Street Newspaper Association provide workshops and support for new street papers. Many develop in a bottom-up fashion, starting up through volunteer work and \"newcomers to the media business\" and gradually expanding to include professionals. For most papers, the majority of revenue comes from sales, donations, and government grants, while some receive advertising revenue from local businesses. There has been some disagreement among street newspaper publishers and supporters over whether papers should accept advertising, with some arguing that advertising is practical and helps support the paper, and others claiming that many kinds of advertisements are inappropriate in a paper that is mainly geared towards the poor.\n\nSpecific business models for street newspapers vary widely, ranging from vendor-managed papers that place the highest value upon homeless empowerment and involvement to highly professionalized and commercialized weeklies. Some papers (especially in Europe) operate as autonomous businesses, while others operate as parts of existing organizations or projects. There are papers that are very successful, such as the UK-based \"The Big Issue\", which in 2001 sold nearly 300,000 copies a week and earned the equivalent of 1 millionUSD in profits, but many papers sell as few as 3,000 copies a month and barely generate a profit at all for the publishers.\n\nMost street newspapers report on issues regarding homelessness and poverty, sometimes functioning as a main source of information on policy changes and other practical issues that are relevant to the homeless but may go unreported in mainstream media. Many feature contributions from the homeless and the poor in addition to articles by activists and community organizers, including profiles of individual street newspaper vendors. For example, the first edition of Washington, D.C.'s \"Street Sense\" included a description of a prominent homeless community, an interview with a congresswoman, an editorial about the costs and benefits of taking a job, several poems about homelessness, a how-to column, and a section for recipes. A 2009 issue of the Lawrence, Kansas-based \"Change of Heart\" included a story on the recent bulldozing of a homeless camp, a review of a book on homelessness, a description of the Family Promise organization for homeless support, and a list of community resources; much of this content was submitted by the homeless. The writing style is often simple and clear; social scientist Kevin Howley describes street newspapers as having a \"native eloquence\".\n\nAccording to Howley, street newspapers are similar to citizen journalism in that both are a response to the perceived shortcomings of the mainstream media and both encourage involvement by non-professionals. A major difference between the two, however, is that the citizen journalism movement does not necessarily advocate a particular position, whereas street newspapers openly advocate for the homeless and poor.\n\nUnlike most street newspapers, the UK-based \"The Big Issue\" focuses mostly on celebrity news and interviews, rather than coverage of homelessness and poverty. It is still sold by homeless vendors and uses the bulk of its proceeds to support homeless individuals and advocacy organizations for the homeless, but the paper's content is mostly written by professional staff and geared towards a broad audience. Because of its professional nature and high production values, it has been a frequent target of criticism in an ongoing debate between adherents of professional and grassroots ideals of how street newspapers should work.\n\nIn addition to providing some individuals with income and employment, street newspapers are intended to give homeless participants responsibility and independence, and to create a tight-knit homeless community. Many offer additional programs to vendors, such as job training, housing placement assistance, and referral to other direct services. Others operate as a program of a larger social services organization—for instance, Chicago's \"StreetWise\" can refer vendors to providers of \"drug and alcohol treatment, high school equivalency classes, career counseling, and permanent housing\". Most are engaged in some form of organizing and advocacy regarding homelessness and poverty, and many function as \"watchdogs\" for the local homeless communities. Howley has described street newspapers as a means of mobilizing the networks of \"formal and informal relationships that exist between the homeless, the unemployed, and the working poor, and shelter managers, healthcare workers, community organizers, and others who work on their behalf\".\n\nIn the early days of street newspapers, people were often reluctant to buy from homeless vendors for fear that they were being scammed. Furthermore, many of the more activist papers fail to sell well because their writing and production are perceived to be unprofessional and lackluster. Topics covered are sometimes seen as lacking newsworthy content, and of little relevance or interest to the general public or the homeless community. Organizations in Montreal and San Francisco have responded to these criticisms by offering workshops in writing and journalism for homeless contributors. Papers such as \"StreetWise\" have in the past been criticized as \"grim\" and for having vendors that are too loud and intrusive. Some newspapers sell well but may not be widely read, as many people will donate to vendors without buying, or buy the newspaper and then throw it away. Howley has described readers' hesitance or unwillingness to read the papers as \"compassion fatigue\". On the other hand, those papers that do sell well and are widely read, such as \"The Big Issue\", are often targets of criticism for being too \"mainstream\" or commercial.\n\nOther difficulties street newspapers face include high turnover of \"transient\" or unreliable staff, lack of adequate funding, lack of journalistic freedom for papers that are funded by local government, and, among some demographics, lack of interest in homeless issues. For example, journalism professor Jim Cunningham has attributed the difficulties in selling Calgary's \"Calgary Street Talk\" to the fact that the mostly middle-class, conservative population has \"not enough sensitivity to the causes of homelessness\". Finally, anti-homeless legislation often targets street newspapers and vendors; for example, in New York City and Cleveland, laws have prevented vendors from selling papers on public transit or other high-traffic areas, making it difficult for the papers \"Street News\" and \"Homeless Grapevine\" to earn revenue.\n\nAmong proponents and publishers of street newspapers there is disagreement over how street newspapers should be run and what their goals should be, reflecting a \"clash between two philosophies for advocating social change\". On one side of the debate are papers that seek to function like a business and generate a profit and a wide readership in order to benefit the homeless in a practical way; on the other are papers that seek to provide a \"voice\" to the homeless and poor without watering down their message for a broad readership. Timothy Harris, the director of \"Real Change\", has described the two camps as \"liberal entrepreneurial\" and \"radical, grassroots activist\".\n\nControversy surrounding \"The Big Issue\", the world's most widely circulated street newspaper, is a good example of these two schools of thought. \"The Big Issue\" is mostly a tabloid covering celebrity news; while it is sold by the homeless and generates a profit that is used to benefit the homeless, the content is not written by them and there is little coverage of social issues that are relevant to them. In the late 1990s when the London-based paper began making plans to enter markets in the United States, many American street newspaper publishers reacted defensively, saying they could not compete with the production values and mainstream appeal of the professionally produced \"The Big Issue\" or that \"The Big Issue\" did not do enough to provide a voice to the homeless. The reaction to \"The Big Issue\" raised what is now an ongoing conflict between commercialized, professional papers and more grassroots-style ones, with papers such as \"The Big Issue\" emulating mainstream papers and magazines in order to generate a large profit to invest in homeless issues and others focusing on political and social issues rather than on content that will generate money. Some street newspaper proponents believe that the primary aim of the papers should be to give homeless individuals a voice and to \"fill the void\" in mainstream media coverage, whereas others believe it should be to provide homeless individuals with jobs and an income.\n\nOther frequent areas of disagreement include the extent that the homeless should participate in the writing and printing of street newspapers, and whether street newspapers should accept advertising to generate revenue. Kevin Howley sums up the division between different street newspaper models when he questions if it is \"possible (or desirable for that matter) to publish a dissident newspaper—that is, a publication committed to progressive social change—and still attract a wide audience\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14505663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505663", "title": "Turks in Austria", "text": "Turks in Austria\n\nAustrian Turks (; ) are people of Turkish ethnicity living in Austria who form the second largest ethnic group in the country after Austrians.\n\nTurkish people were recruited to Austria as Gastarbeiter (guest workers) for the construction and export industries following an agreement with the Turkish government in 1964. From 1973 the policy of encouraging guest workers ended and restrictive immigration laws were introduced, first with the 1975 Aliens Employment Act, setting quotas on work permits, and then the 1992 Residence Act, which set quotas for residency permits without the right to work. A more restrictive system was put in place in 1997 and further limits imposed in 2006.\n\nSince the 1970s Turks living and working in Austria have focused on family reunification and on seeking Austrian citizenship, for which they need to have lived in Austria for 10 years.\nAccording to the 2001 census, there was 183,445 Turkish nationals living in Austria. According to the Minority Rights Group International many of the Turks living in Austria have been naturalized and the full community is estimated to number between 200,000 and 300,000. Turks are the largest single immigrant group, the leading group seeking Austrian citizenship, and account for the majority of Muslims.According to BBC the number of Turks in Austria are estimated to be around 350,000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39698396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39698396", "title": "Women in Belgium", "text": "Women in Belgium\n\nWomen in Belgium are European women who live in or are from Belgium. Generation after generation, Belgian women are able to close the \"occupational gender gap\". In younger generations, this is due to the increasing availability of \"part-time jobs in services\" for women. In 1999, the average earnings of a Belgian woman was 91 percent of the salary of a Belgian man. When not doing part-time jobs, Belgian women still \"do more of the domestic work\", depending on the agreement between female and male partners.\n\nBelgian culture is complex, because it has both aspects that are shared by most Belgians regardless of the language they speak, as well as differences between the main cultural communities: the Dutch-speaking Flemish and the French-speakers Walloons. The Flemish draw intensively from both the English-speaking culture (which dominates sciences, professional life and most news media) and the Netherlands, while French-speakers focus on cultural life in France and elsewhere in the French-speaking world, and less outside. Today, the Brussels-Capital Region is primarily French speaking, but is quite bilingual, and is also a cosmopolitan place. There is also a small German speaking community in the East of the country. Women's rights in Belgium have been influenced by a variety of factors, including local culture, and national laws and policies. Women obtained the right to vote first with restrictions in 1919, and on equal terms with men in 1948. Women obtained the right to stand for elections in 1921.\n\nLike in most other European countries, family law has traditionally given legal authority to the husband; but has been reformed in the second half of the 20th century. The marital power of the husband was abolished in 1958, but property laws were reformed only in the 1970s, when legal gender equality between husband and wife was established. Adultery was decriminalized in 1987. Same-sex marriage in Belgium was legalized in 2003. The divorce law in Belgium was liberalized in September 2007. In the 21st century, the link between marriage and fertility has decreased: in 2012, 52.3% of births were outside of marriage. The centrality of marriage in peoples' life is no longer so strong: in the European Values Study (EVS) of 2008, the percentage of respondents who agreed with the assertion that \"Marriage is an outdated institution\" was 34.3% in Belgium.\n\nAbortion laws in Belgium were liberalized in 1990. Abortion is legal until the twelfth week of pregnancy, and it is required for a woman to receive counseling at least six days prior to the abortion and to check in with her doctor to monitor her health in the weeks after the procedure. Abortions at later stages are permitted for medical reasons. The maternal mortality rate in Belgium is 8.00 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010). Like most Western countries, Belgium has to deal with low fertility levels and a sub-replacement fertility rate: the total fertility rate (TFR) is 1.7 children born/woman (est. of 2015), which is below the replacement rate of 2.1.\n\nThe representation of women in parliament has been increasing steadily since 1995. In lower or single Houses after parliamentary renewals in 2007, women have taken 55 seats to account for 36.7%. In 2014, that number rose slightly to 57 accounting for 38% in the lower or single House. Women in upper houses of parliament in 2007 was 27 out of 71, which was 38%. That number rose to 30 women accounting for 50% total in the upper house in 2014. Belgium has a law requiring political parties to nominate at least 33 percent women. The parties that do not meet the target face sanctions.\n\nBelgium, like neighboring Netherlands, has a strong tradition of women fulfilling a predominantly domestic role, rather than a professional one. Roman Catholicism, the traditional religion in Belgium, has supported different gender roles for men and women. However, from the 1990s onward, this has started to change. The occupational gender gap has been decreasing in recent years, especially among younger generations. However, the higher occupational rate of women is primarily due to an increase in part-time jobs. In 2011, 43.3% of employed women worked part-time, compared to only 9.2% of men. There is also a strong segregation by field, and there are less women in Belgium working in STEM and engineering than the EU average.\n\nThe gender employment gap for highly educated women decreased to 7% in 2002, below the OECD average. However, the overall employment rate for women aged 20–64 years is 63.0% compared to 72.3% for men (in 2016). The gender employment gap for highly educated women is smallest in Flanders and largest in Wallonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2819754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819754", "title": "Zazi", "text": "Zazi\n\nThe Zazi (), also spelled Zazai, or Jaji, is a Karlani Pashtun tribe. They are found in Paktia and Khost provinces in the Loya Paktia region of southeastern Afghanistan, as well as Kurram Valley of Pakistan, but also have an effective presence in Kabul, Logar, Ghazni, Nangharhar, Kunduz, and Baghlan in Afghanistan.\n\nThe Zazi are similar to the Wardak and Turi, except that the Zazi are Sunni Muslims. The tribe is inhabited in four major geographic locations in Afghanistan and Pakistan: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265120", "title": "Zvakwana", "text": "Zvakwana\n\nZvakwana is an underground movement in Zimbabwe, that came to light in 2004. Its name means \"enough is enough\" in the Shona language, and in Ndebele it translates to Sokwanele. (Sokwanele is also a part of the movement but appears to be more occupied with information dissemination).\n\nZvakwana appears to be responsible for clandestinely distributing resistance messages, graffiti, CDs of music, and condoms featuring their logo, a Z on a yellow background. They also run a website which the Zimbabwean government is trying to block from internet service providers. \n\nOpposition party Movement for Democratic Change says they have no connection to Zvakwana, but share its values and support its efforts.\n\n"}
