{"id": "22148323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22148323", "title": "Beach Lodge and Gallery", "text": "Beach Lodge and Gallery\n\nThe Beach Gallery () and Beach Lodge () are two exhibit buildings at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont. They are both made from logs and are designed to resemble an Adirondack hunting camp. The Beach Lodge exhibits a large selection of hunting trophies (taxidermy), while the Beach Gallery exhibits art depicting the North American wilderness; this includes work by Carl Rungius (a hunting companion of Theodore Roosevelt), Arthur Fitzwilliam Tait, and Sydney Laurence. \n\nIn 1960, the Shelburne Museum commissioned the construction of the Beach Lodge and the Beach Gallery, named for William and Marie Beach, who were friends and hunting companions of Electra Havemeyer Webb, as well as Shelburne Museum patrons. Using timber forested at the Webb family’s Adirondack “great camp,” Nehasane, the Museum designed the Lodge and the Gallery to resemble an Adirondack hunting camp. To create an environment distinctly different from the rest of the grounds, the Museum excavated a shallow basin in which to build the two structures, surrounded the basin with Vermont sandstone, and planted spruce, hemlock, and cedar trees so that the area would resemble an Adirondack forest. \n\nIn 2007 the Museum restored both the Beach Lodge and Gallery. The Lodge, whose original timber structure and interior remained in good condition, received basic renovations, while the Gallery, which had drastically deteriorated over the years, had to be razed. The Museum constructed a new cabin using logs from the timber left standing after a forest fire in Montana on the Gallery’s original floor plan. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16314710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16314710", "title": "Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv", "text": "Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv\n\nThe Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv is a collection of ethnomusicological recordings or world music, mostly on phonographic cylinders, assembled since 1900 in Berlin, Germany by the institution of the same name.\nThe project was initiated in September 1900 by the psychology professor Carl Stumpf, after the visit to Germany of a music theater group from Siam, which Stumpf recorded on Edison cylinders with the assistance of the Berlin physician Otto Abraham. The archive's first director was Erich von Hornbostel, serving from 1905 to 1933. Its recordings, which comprise Edison cylinders and 78-rpm records of the traditional musics of the world, were first used for studies in comparative musicology, and now used for studies in ethnomusicology. The archive comprises approximately 350 collections, containing music from Africa (30%), North America (20%), Asia (20%), Australia and Oceania (12%), and Europe (10.4%), as well as multiregional collections (7.4%), which contain material from several continents.\n\nThe last cylinder field recording in the collection was made in 1953.\n\nIn 1944 during the wartime invasion of Germany, around 90% of the collection was taken into Russia. In 1991, following the reunification of East and West Germany, the pre-1944 collections held by the Soviets were returned to the Museum für Völkerkunde.\n\nThe historical collections include approximately 30,000 cylinders (original recordings and copies, positives and negatives) on which more than 16,000 distinct recordings are stored.\n\nIn 1999, the cylinder recordings of the Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv were inscribed on UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register.\n\nInitially, the \"Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv\" belonged to the Institute for Psychology of the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin. Later, in the 1920s, it was relocated to the Berlin Conservatory, and then in the 1930s, it became part of the \"Museum für Völkerkunde\" (now the Ethnological Museum of Berlin), with which the \"Phonogramm-Archiv\" had earlier cooperated.\n\nAfter the Second World War the collections of the \"Phonogramm-Archiv\" were divided. Most of its recordings were in East Germany, while the bulk of the corresponding documentation remained in the West. Both sides viewed the collection to be mainly lost. In West Berlin, Kurt Reinhard rebuilt an archive at the Ethnological Museum. New recordings were made, mostly on tape. Due to this, and the fact that by this time the archive had also assembled an important collection of musical instruments, in the 1960s the collection was renamed the \"Department for Ethnomusicology\" (\"musikethnologische Abteilung\").\n\nThe Department for Ethnomusicology continued to collect music, with a focus on traditional music, from all areas of the world, so that by its 100th anniversary it claimed to house an estimated 150,000 recordings An international conference called \"100 Years Berlin Phonogramm-Archive: Retrospective, Perspective and Interdisciplinary Approaches of the Sound Archives of the World\" was held from September 27 to October 1, 2000, at the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nToday, the Ethnomusicological Museum forms part of the \"Musikethnologie\" department of the Ethnological Museum of Berlin of the Berlin State Museums (\"Staatliche Museen zu Berlin\"), under the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19099273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19099273", "title": "Betty Crocker Cookbook", "text": "Betty Crocker Cookbook\n\nThe Betty Crocker Cookbook is a cookbook written by staff at General Mills, the holders of the Betty Crocker trademark. The persona of Betty Crocker was invented by the Washburn-Crosby Company (which would later become General Mills) as a feminine \"face\" for the company's public relations. Early editions of the cookbook were ostensibly written by the character herself.\n\nMore than 75 million copies of the book have been sold since it was first published in 1950. Owing to the dominant color of the book's covers over the years, the \"Betty Crocker Cookbook\" is familiarly referred to as \"Big Red\", a term that General Mills has trademarked.\n\nEarly media forays for the Betty Crocker character included \"Betty Crocker Cooking School of the Air\" broadcast from Minneapolis radio station WCCO beginning in 1924, and several cooking pamphlets such as \"Betty Crocker's 101 Delicious Bisquick Creations As Made And Served by Well-Known Gracious Hostesses\". The character was so successful that in 1945 \"Fortune\" magazine named her the second most popular woman in the United States, after Eleanor Roosevelt. The same article exposed Crocker as \"a fake\", though to little apparent effect. By the early 1950s, General Mills surveys showed that 99% of American housewives were familiar with the character.\n\nFirst published on September 8, 1950 with an initial print run of 950,000 copies, as \"Betty Crocker's Picture Cook Book\", the first edition sold for $2.95, with a $3.95 deluxe edition available. The book's launch was heavily promoted by General Mills, with ample time devoted to it on the \"Betty Crocker's Magazine of the Air\" radio program and advertisements in magazines such as \"Ladies' Home Journal\", which emphasized that over $100,000 had been spent developing the book's \"revolutionary\" recipes. The 2161 recipes for the book were developed by a team of 50 chefs at the General Mills test kitchens, supervised by the home economist Janette Kelley. The book was an immediate best-seller and contemporary reviews were positive; the \"Chicago Tribune\" declared it the best general cookbook ever published, and \"The New York Times\" noted that its sales of 18,000 copies a week were several times that of the most recent Ernest Hemingway novel.\n\nThe original 1950 edition assumed very little knowledge on the part of the reader. The book made extensive use of photography and charts to make its techniques accessible to beginning cooks. It featured an extensive glossary that explained cooking terminology and in addition to recipes it offered instructions for using then-new appliances such as refrigerators and electric ranges. With the Great Depression and food rationing due to the Second World War in the very recent past, the book contains instructions for preparing rabbit, a food that rural Americans resorted to in lean times. In Germany, where food rationing continued for many years after the end of the war, the publication of the cookbook created a popular vision of the United States as a land of inexhaustible resources.\n\nThe book's advice extends beyond the kitchen as well: the 1961 edition includes an exhortation to comb one's hair and apply make-up before breakfast each day. Recipes for cake using Betty Crocker-brand cake mixes were a staple of early editions of the book.\n\nThe recipes in the first edition are \"basic\" according to a modern review, and many are \"grossly outdated\"; there are several recipes for hamloaf and an \"international\" recipe for \"Spaghetti Oriental\". A recipe for tuna and Jell-o pie from a 1965 cookbook was featured in a Buzzfeed listicle of \"truly upsetting vintage recipes\". The 12th edition (subtitled \"Everything You Need to Know to Cook From Scratch\") was published in October 2016 and features more contemporary cuisine; there are recipes for beef pho, ropa vieja, and shakshouka. An entire chapter is devoted to vegetarian cuisine.\n\nThe \"Betty Crocker Cookbook\" is now the flagship book of what has become a large collection of books printed under the Betty Crocker name.\n\n\"The Betty Crocker Cookbook\" is available in binder, trade paperback, and comb-bound formats, as well as several special-interest formats such as bridal, heart health, and a breast cancer fundraising edition. Mobile apps for iOS and Android are available to access the Betty Crocker recipe database on the web.\n\nThe Betty Crocker cookbook series includes more than 250 different books published since 1950 on subjects such as cooking basics, entertaining, as well as \"Betty Crocker: Kids Cook\", first published in 1957 as \"Betty Crocker’s Cook Book for Boys and Girls\". In 1980, following broadening American tastes, Betty Crocker cookbooks based around international cuisine started to appear, such as the bilingual English/Spanish \"Cocina Betty Crocker\" (a Mexican food guide), \"Betty Crocker's Chinese Cookbook\", \"Betty Crocker's Indian Home Cooking\", and others. The current range of cookbooks features over twenty different books.\n\nThe original 1950 edition and the \"Betty Crocker Cooky Book\" have been reprinted as facsimiles.\n\nIt is commonly asserted that the primary purpose of the \"Betty Crocker Cookbook\" is to sell pre-packaged Betty Crocker-brand ingredients, which are specified in the book's recipes. The culinary historian Laura Shapiro does not dispute this, but suggests that the relative ease of making a partially pre-packaged cake recipe from the cookbook empowered women to experiment and to view cooking as a creative outlet, which in turn helped housewives of the 1950s begin to see homemaking as a respectable profession unto itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "33689221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33689221", "title": "BlueLabel", "text": "BlueLabel\n\nBlueLabel is an online database for the international art world. BlueLabel was developed for modern and contemporary artists to record details of their art works to ensure that these are permanently stored and easily accessible.\n\nArt works are more valuable when fully documented but modern technology may increase the chances for data loss. BlueLabel caters to all members of the international art world and allows artists to securely register the details of their artwork online to prevent loss. Artists create “labels” for their works – online documents that detail all of the essential information for the work. These labels can then be accessed by members and non-members, sent, collected and managed.\n\nUnlike other art archives, BlueLabel is artist driven and guarantees the authenticity of its contents by the very nature of its design.\n\nThe data entry system complies with advanced, international archival standards; it is a relevant tool not only for conventional media such as painting and sculpture but also for new media practices and alternative contemporary art forms such as film, video, performance, internet art and site-specific art.\n\nDevelopment\n\nBlueLabel was founded by Anne Faggionato in 2009. The website is currently undergoing a period of significant redevelopment. \n\nSponsorship\n\nIn 2010, BlueLabel sponsored New York Gallery Week and the Richard Hamilton exhibition at Serpentine Gallery.\nBlueLabel also sponsored a show curated by William Mackrell exclusively from BlueLabel members, \"A Tender Cut\".\n\nIn 2011, BlueLabel again sponsored New York Gallery Week and also sponsored \"In Deed: Certificates of Authenticity in Art\" (a traveling exhibition, opening at The Foundation for Visual Arts, Middelburg), an exhibition that looks at artists’ certificates from the past 50 years and how their roles have shifted and developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "12305918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12305918", "title": "British Museum Department of Coins and Medals", "text": "British Museum Department of Coins and Medals\n\nThe British Museum Department of Coins and Medals is a department of the British Museum involving the collection, research and exhibition of numismatics, and comprising the largest library of numismatic artefacts in the United Kingdom, including almost one million coins, medals, tokens and other related objects. The collection spans the history of coinage from its origins in the 7th century BC to the present day, and is representative of both Eastern and Western numismatic traditions.\n\nNumismatics constituted an important part of the 1753 bequest of Sir Hans Sloane which formed the British Museum's original collection, comprising some 20,000 objects. The collection was incorporated into the Department of Antiquities in 1807, before the establishment of a separate Coins and Medals department in 1860-1.\n\nAs in other parts of the museum, the department has been able to expand its collection by purchase, donation and bequest. The department has benefited from the munificence of collectors such as Clayton Mordaunt Cracherode, Sarah Banks, Edward Hawkins, Sir Alexander Cunningham and George Bleazby. A significant strength of the collection are British coins from all ages, which have benefited from the ancient law of Treasure Trove. This has enabled the museum to purchase important hoards of gold and silver coins, many of which were buried during periods of crisis or upheaval. There are approximately 9,000 coins, medals and banknotes on display around the British Museum. More than half of these can be found in the Citi Money Gallery (Gallery 68), while the remainder form part of the permanent displays throughout the museum. Items from the full collection can be seen by the general public in the Study Room by appointment.\n\nThe department celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2011.\n\nThe Department has a strong research history, which underpins publications (see, for example, the British Museum Catalogues of Coins, exhibitions and other activities.\n\nPublications associated with exhibitions \n\nIn addition to being numismatists, staff of the department have also been distinguished linguists, historians, archaeologists, art historians, classicists, medievalists, orientalists, and authors:\n\n"}
{"id": "49321156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49321156", "title": "Central State Film Archive (Albania)", "text": "Central State Film Archive (Albania)\n\nThe Central State Film Archive () is the main film archive of Albania. Based in Tirana, the archive has listed in its repository 271 feature films, 166 animated films, 1,131 documentaries and 1,012 film chronicles between the years 1945-2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "38722332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38722332", "title": "Christopher White (art historian)", "text": "Christopher White (art historian)\n\nSir Christopher John White CVO FBA (born 19 September 1930) is a British art historian and curator. He is the son of the artist and art administrator Gabriel White. He has specialized in the study of Rembrandt and Dutch Golden Age painting and printmaking.\n\nWhite received a BA from the University of London, followed by an MA from Oxford, and a PhD at the Courtauld Institute, University of London. He then joined the British Museum's Department of Prints and Drawings in 1954. From 1965 to 1971 he was Director of Old Master Sales at Colnaghi in London, then moving to be curator of graphic arts for the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC until 1973. \n\nFrom 1973 White was Director of the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art, an affiliate of Yale in London, and also an associate director of the Yale Center for British Art. In 1985 he left these to become Director of the Ashmolean Museum and a fellow of Worcester College, Oxford, retiring in 1997. \n\nIn 1997 he became a Trustee of the Victoria and Albert Museum. He is also Vice-Chairman of the British Institute of Florence and a Trustee of the Mauritshuis in The Hague. He was knighted in the 2001 New Year Honours for services to art history.\n\nHis books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18919515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919515", "title": "Chronica Naierensis", "text": "Chronica Naierensis\n\nThe Chronica Naierensis or Crónica najerense (originally edited under the title \"Crónica leonesa\") was a late twelfth-century chronicle of universal history composed at the Benedictine monastery of Santa María la Real in Nájera. In Latin it narrates events from Creation to its own time, with a focus on the Bible, classical history, the Visigothic in Spain, and the kingdoms of Castile and León. It was an important model for later Spanish Latin historiographers, notably the \"De rebus Hispaniae\" of Rodrigo Jiménez de Rada, the \"Chronicon mundi\" of Lucas de Tuy, and the \"Estoria de España\" of the patronage of Alfonso X of Castile. \n\nBesides its classical and Biblical authorities, the \"Chronica Naierensis\" relied heavily on material culled from the \"cantares de gesta\". The \"Chronica\" is not an original work in any rigorous sense, but rather a compilation. Its Visigothic history is based squarely on Isidore of Seville and its more recent Spanish history incorporates the \"Corpus Pelagianum\", a work supervised by Pelagius, Bishop of Oviedo, mid-century. The date of the \"Chronica\"'s completion was long dated to 1160, but the 1995 critical edition published by Juan Estévez Sola revised the \"terminus post quem\" to 1173, for it was not until that year that Pedro Coméstor finished his \"Historia Scholastica\", which the \"Chronica\" uses as a source. The \"terminus ante quem\" of the \"Chronica\" can be placed in 1194, the earliest date for the composition of the \"Linage del Cid\", which used it as a source. These dates make it contemporary with the \"Historia Roderici\", though the influence of the latter in the \"Chronica\" is evident. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53462275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53462275", "title": "Comparative air force enlisted ranks of Asia", "text": "Comparative air force enlisted ranks of Asia\n\nRank comparison chart of air forces of Asian states.\n\n"}
{"id": "58906031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58906031", "title": "CompareHero.my", "text": "CompareHero.my\n\nCompareHero.my is an online financial aggregator based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It was first established in 2013 and is a registered company under Compargo Malaysia Sdn Bhd. CompareHero.my is wholly owned by CompareAsiaGroup Limited.\n\nCompareHero.my is part of CompareAsiaGroup (CompareAsiaGroup Limited). Headquartered in Hong Kong, CompareAsiaGroup is one of the Asia's leading online financial marketplace with presence in Malaysia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, the Philippines, and Thailand. CompareAsiaGroup is funded by Nova Founders Capital and several other global investors such as the International Finance Corporation from World Bank Group, Goldman Sachs, ACE & Company, Route 66 Ventures, SBI Group, and Alibaba Entrepreneurs Fund.\n\nAs a financial aggregator, CompareHero.my provides Malaysians with a free online comparison platform for comparing and applying credit cards, personal loans and broadband plans provided by various banks and financial institutions in Malaysia. The online platform helps consumers find suitable financial products by comparing interest rates, benefits, and sign-up offers at a glance. With broadband plans, CompareHero.my compares features such as broadband packages, speeds and the amount of allocated data per month.\n\nIn addition to its comparison tool, the company aims to increase financial literacy levels among all Malaysians. CompareHero.my also provides independent advice on financial products and practical tips on saving money in Malaysia through its blog, eBooks, and guides. CompareHero.my work closely with banks and government agencies to make personal finance accessible to every Malaysian.\n\nCompareAsiaGroup was founded by Kuala Lumpur-based technology incubator Nova Founders Capital. The group received an undisclosed amount of seed funding in July 2013. With this seed funding, Gerald Eder, Floyd Sijmons and Zee Fakier founded CompareHero.my. Managing director Gerald Eder was the former co-founder and managing director of Zalora Thailand. Prior to setting up CompareHero.my, managing director Floyd Sijmons was the former head of strategic revenue management and planning at Groupon EMA. Whereas the chief content officer Zee Fakier was the former Groupon’s editor-in-chief. The CompareHero.my website achieved a milestone of 10,000 users within the first month of its official launch.\n\nIn February 2014, CompareAsiaGroup secured US$3 million funds from Stem Capital Partners and other international investors. CompareHero.my formed partnerships with 80 local banks and financial institutions in Malaysia. Within the same year, the parent company, CompareAsiaGroup expanded into Hong Kong, the Philippines., Indonesia, Thailand, and Taiwan. CompareAsiaGroup established its regional hub and group headquarters in Hong Kong.\n\nCompareHero.my, part of CompareAsiaGroup, received US$40 million investment in Series A funding led by Goldman Sachs Investment Partners, Jardine Pacific, Nova Founders Capital, ACE & Company, and Route 66 Ventures. Several angel investors such as Mark Pincus (Zynga founder), Owen Van Natta (former Facebook COO and MySpace CEO) also participated in the round. In the same year, CompareAsiaGroup launched Singsaver in Singapore.\n\nCompareHero.my, part of CompareAsiaGroup, raised additional US$50 million funding in Series B led by International Finance Corp (IFC) and joined in by Alibaba Entrepreneurs Fund, SBI Group and H&Q Utrust. Existing investors such as Goldman Sachs Investment Partners, Nova Founders Capital, ACE & Company, and Route 66 Ventures also participated in the round. The IFC contributed up to US$15 million of the investment amount.\n\nAs part of the business expansion and also to accommodate their fast growing team, the office was relocated from Seri Bukit Ceylon, Kuala Lumpur to Wisma UOA Damansara, Kuala Lumpur.\n\nCompareHero.my provides free tools to help Malaysians understand consumer finance products in Malaysia. The financial products available for comparison on the website includes personal loans and credit cards.\n\n\n\nThe company is currently located in Wisma UOA Damansara, Kuala Lumpur. CompareHero.my is part of CompareAsiaGroup, with operations in a total of 7 countries including Hong Kong (MoneyHero.com.hk), Malaysia (CompareHero.my), Singapore (SingSaver.com.sg), Indonesia (HaloMoney.co.id), Taiwan (Money101.com.tw), the Philippines (MoneyMax.ph), and Thailand (MoneyGuru.co.th).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1136585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1136585", "title": "Comparison of American and Canadian football", "text": "Comparison of American and Canadian football\n\nAmerican and Canadian football are gridiron codes of football that are very similar. Both have their origins in rugby football. There are, however, some key differences.\n\nRugby football was introduced to North America in Canada by the British Army garrison in Montreal, Quebec, which played a series of games with McGill University. In 1874, the U.S. Harvard University hosted Canada's McGill University to play the new game derived from rugby football in a home-and-home series. When the Canadians arrived several days early, to take advantage of the trip to see Boston and the surrounding areas, they held daily practices. During this time, the Americans were surprised to see the Canadians kick, chase, and then run with the ball. Picking up and running with the ball violated a basic rule of the American game of the day; when the U.S. captain (Henry Grant) pointed this out to the captain of the Canadian team (David Roger), the reply was simple: Running with the ball is a core part of the Canadian game. When the American asked which game the Canadians played, David replied \"rugby\". After some negotiation, it was decided to play a game with half and half Canadian/U.S. rules. Thus, many of the similarities and differences between the Canadian and American games indeed came out of this original series where each home team set the rules. For instance, Harvard, because of a lack of campus space, did not have a full-sized rugby pitch. Their pitch was only long by wide with undersized end zones (slightly less than the 53⅓-yard width of the current regulation-sized field for American football). Because of the reduced field, the Harvard team opted for 11 players per side, four fewer than the regulation 15 of Rugby Union. To generate more offense, Harvard also increased the number of downs from three, as set by McGill, to four. Furthermore, the Harvard players so enjoyed running with the ball, this rule was wholly adopted into all Harvard play following the two games with McGill. While the American team bested the Canadian (3-0 and a following tie game), both countries' flavours of football were forever changed and linked to one another. Both the Canadian and American games still have some things in common with the two varieties of rugby, especially rugby league, and because of the similarities, the National Football League (NFL) had a formal relationship with the Canadian Football League (CFL) between 1997 and 2008.\n\nMany, perhaps most, of the rules differences have arisen because of rules changes in American football in the early 20th century which have not been copied by Canadian football. The major Canadian codes never abolished the onside scrimmage kick (see Kicker advancing the ball below) or restricted backfield motion, while the American college football (from whose code all American codes derive) did. Canadian football was later in adopting the hand snap and the forward pass, although one would not suspect the latter from play today. Additionally, Canadian football was slower in removing restrictions on blocking, but caught up by the 1970s so that no significant differences remain today. Similarly, differences in scoring (the Canadian game valuing touchdowns less) opened up from the late 19th century, but were erased by the 1950s. An area in which American football has been more conservative is the retention of the fair catch (\"see below\").\n\nIn some regions along the Canada-U.S. border, especially western areas, some high schools from opposite sides of the border regularly play games against one another (typically one or two per team per season). By agreement between the governing bodies involved, the field of the home team is considered a legal field, although it is a different size from one school's normal field. In all but a few cases, the rules of the home team are followed throughout the game.\n\nMany CFL players are Americans who grew up playing American football and cannot find a place in the NFL, or who prefer to play in the CFL; strict import quotas restrict the number of non-Canadian players. Furthermore, the classifications of import (non-Canadian) and non-import (Canadian) were highly restrictive and required a player to have been in Canada since childhood to qualify as a non-import (i.e. a player cannot simply become a Canadian citizen and become a non-import, nor can he arrive in Canada during high school or college; both scenarios would still have the player in question classified as an import and counted against the team's maximum); these restrictions were loosened beginning in 2014 so that anyone who had become a Canadian citizen at any time before signing with the league for the first time could qualify as a non-import player. For individuals who played both American and Canadian football professionally, their career statistic totals are considered to be their combined totals from their careers in both the CFL and NFL. Warren Moon, for example, was the all-time professional football leader in passing yards after an illustrious career in both leagues. He was surpassed in 2006 by Damon Allen, who in turn was surpassed by Anthony Calvillo in 2011, both of whose careers were exclusively in the CFL.\n\nThere are several important specific differences between the Canadian and American versions of the game of football:\n\nThe official playing field in Canadian football is larger than the American, and similar to American fields prior to 1912. The Canadian field of play is , rather than as in American football. The end zones in Canadian football are 10 yards deeper than American football end zones as the CFL uses end zones. Prior to 1986, however, the end zones were 25 yards, with Vancouver's BC Place the first to use the 20 yard-long end zone in 1983. However, beginning in 2016, the new home of the CFL's Toronto Argonauts, BMO Field, utilizes an 18-yard-long end zone. Including the end zones, the Canadian field is almost 34% larger than the American field ( for the Canadian field vs for the American field). Occasionally, however, the Canadian field will have its end zone truncated at the corners so that the field fits in the infield of a running track. The only example in the CFL is the Percival Molson Memorial Stadium, home of the Montreal Alouettes. The goalposts for kicking are placed at the goal line in Canadian football and the end line in the American game. In Canadian rules, the distance between the sideline and hash marks is ; in American amateur rules, at the high school level, the distance is , virtually sectioning the field into three equal columns. The hash marks are closer together at the American college level, where they are from the sideline, and in the NFL, where they are from the sideline and the distance between them is the same as that between the goalposts.\n\nBecause of the larger field, many American football venues are generally unfit for the Canadian game. While there are several American stadia which could accommodate the extra  feet (nearly per side in width (multi-purpose stadiums, baseball parks converted for football, and some soccer-specific stadiums are particularly good fits), most American stadia would lose between fifteen and eighteen rows of seating in each end zone because the field is longer on each end. In many smaller venues, this would be the entire end zone section, losing seating for at least 3,000 spectators. During the CFL's failed expansion to U.S. cities, Canadian football was either played on fields designed to accommodate both American football and baseball (such as the Baltimore Stallions playing at Memorial Stadium), or in some cases, on a field designed for American football (for instance, the Memphis Mad Dogs and the Birmingham Barracudas of the CFL, playing in the Liberty Bowl and at Legion Field, respectively, played the Canadian game on modified American-sized fields because of the inability of the stadia to adapt to the larger field). The Alamodome, originally built as a multi-purpose dome, proved to best accommodate both Canadian football (the CFL's San Antonio Texans) and American football (Alamo Bowl, Dallas Cowboys training camp, the New Orleans Saints after Hurricane Katrina, the NFLPA Game, the U.S. Army All-American Bowl and the UTSA Roadrunners), although Canadian football is no longer played there. Similarly, Hornet Stadium fairly easily adapted to both the Canadian and American game, as it was built with a running track in which the Canadian field fits with only some cuts to the corners. Hornet Stadium hosts California State University, Sacramento (more often known as Sacramento State), hosted the Sacramento Surge and Sacramento Mountain Lions in American football and hosted the Sacramento Gold Miners in Canadian football.\n\nAmerican teams use eleven players, while Canadian teams have twelve players on the field per side. Both games have the same number of offensive players required at the line of scrimmage, so the twelfth player in the Canadian game plays a backfield position on offence, whereas this is usually a defensive back on defence.\n\nBecause of this, position designations of the various offensive and defensive lines vary. For example, there is no tight end in most formations in Canadian football (this position was phased out in 1980 in the Canadian game). The typical offensive arrangement in Canadian football is for there to be two slotbacks instead of the American tight end, while on the defensive end of the ball, two defensive halfbacks are used instead of one strong safety in the American game.\n\nThe sizes of individual American and Canadian footballs can vary within specified size limitations. Because the ball size specifications for the CFL and NFL are nearly identical, the same ball can fall within the requirements of both.\n\nHistorically the CFL ball was slightly larger, both because of slightly bigger specifications, but also because CFL manufacturers tended to make balls at the larger end of the allowed tolerances as opposed to NFL manufacturers who built balls to the smaller end. However, the CFL updated its specifications in 1985.\n\nAccording to the current standards the regulation size for a Canadian Football League football is specified as: short circumference from ; long circumference from .\n\nThe regulation size for a National Football League football is specified as: short circumference from ; long circumference from .\n\nDespite the fact that the CFL rules allow for a smaller legal ball and the NFL rules allow for a larger legal ball, there is a common misconception among media, fans, and even players that the current CFL ball is bigger. Some professional quarterbacks have stated that they notice a difference in size.\n\nAnother difference between NFL and CFL balls is that Canadian balls have two complete white stripes around the football from the largest diameter of the ball and NFL balls have no stripes at all. College football and high school football both specify the use of stripes, but only on two of the football's four panels (the ones adjacent to the laces).\n\nIn American football, a team has four downs to advance the ball ten yards, while in Canadian football the limit is three downs.\n\nIn both games, the ball is placed at a line of scrimmage, in which a player known as the \"centre/center\" performs a \"snap\" to start a football play. In Canadian football, the snap is required to go between the centre's legs; there is no such requirement in American football, but it is invariably done this way anyway, so the center is in position to block following the snap. The defensive team must stay a set distance away from the line of scrimmage on their side of the line.\n\nIn Canadian football, the distance between the line of scrimmage and the defensive team is a full yard. Because of this one-yard distance, teams will tend to gamble on \"third and one\" or \"third and inches\". If a team has possession within one yard of either goal line, the line of scrimmage is moved to the one-yard line.\n\nIn American football, the set distance between the offensive and defensive teams is eleven inches – the length of the ball, creating the illusion of the teams being \"nose-to-nose\" against each other.\n\nWhile large, relatively immobile offensive line players used to form a line that cannot be easily penetrated by the defense are valued in American football, the extra distance from the defensive team means Canadian football finds value in more nimble athletes.\n\nIn American football, if a punt returner sees that, in his judgment, he will be unable to advance the ball after catching it, he may signal for a fair catch by waving his hand in the air, and forgo the attempt to advance. If he makes this signal, the opposing team must allow him to attempt to catch the ball cleanly; if he is interfered with, the team covering the kick will be penalized fifteen yards. In contrast, there is no fair catch rule in Canadian football: instead no player from the kicking team, except the kicker or any player who was behind him when he kicked the ball, may approach within five yards of the ball until it has been touched by an opponent. If they do, a \"no yards\" penalty is called against the kicking team. Penalties for \"no yards\" calls vary on whether the ball made contact with the ground or not. The penalty is 5 yards if the ball has bounced and 15 if the ball is caught in the air.\n\nFurthermore, in American football the receiving team may elect not to play the ball if the prospects for a return are not good and the returner is not certain he can successfully catch the ball on the fly; American players are generally taught not to attempt to touch a bouncing football. If any member of the kicking team touches the ball after the kick is made, without an intervening touch by the member of the receiving team, the receiving team may elect to scrimmage the ball from that spot of \"first touching\", regardless of anything else (other than a penalty) that happens during the rest of the play. If the kicking team gains possession of the ball during the kick before it is touched by the receiving team, the ball is then dead. Often, the ball hits the ground and is surrounded by players from the kicking team, who allow it to roll as far as possible downfield – without going into the end zone – before grasping or holding the ball against the ground. (If a punt bounces into the receiving team's end zone, it is dead, and a touchback is awarded.) On the other hand, if the ball touches a member of the receiving team without his gaining possession (a \"muff\"), then the ball can be recovered by either team (but cannot be advanced by the kicking team). If the kicking team recovers the ball, they regain possession and are awarded a first down at the spot of the recovery.\n\nFollowing a fair catch in American football, the receiving team can elect a free kick (called a \"fair catch kick\") from the spot the ball is received – and if the kick goes through the opposite goal posts a field goal is scored. Fair catch kicks are rarely attempted in the NFL and are usually unsuccessful (The last successful fair catch kick was in 1976). The fair catch kick is not allowed in college football. \n\nIn Canadian football, if the receiving team does not play the ball, the kicker, and any teammates behind the kicker at the time of the kick, can attempt to retrieve and advance the ball. This is further explained in the kicker advancing the ball section.\n\nIn American football, after all players are set, only one offensive player is allowed to be in motion, and he cannot be moving toward the line of scrimmage while the ball is snapped. The motion player must also be behind the line of scrimmage; players on the line cannot be in motion.\n\nIn Canadian football, \"all offensive backfield players\", except the quarterback, may be in motion at the snap – players in motion may move in any direction as long as they are behind the line of scrimmage at the snap. In addition, the two players on the ends of the line of scrimmage (generally wide receivers) may also be in motion along the line. Many teams encourage this unlimited motion, as it can confuse the defence. It also provides receivers the advantage of a running start, as they can time their runs so that they cross the line of scrimmage at speed when the ball is snapped, allowing them to get downfield faster than receivers in American football, allowing for comparatively longer throws in the same amount of time after the snap or quicker throws for a given distance.\n\nIn American football, the offensive team must run a play within 25 seconds of the referee whistling the play in – except in the NCAA (college) and the NFL where teams have 40 seconds from the end of the previous play, or 25 seconds following a penalty or timeout. In Canadian football, teams have 20 seconds regardless of the preceding situation.\n\nAmerican football rules allow each team to have three timeouts in each half, and the NFL stops play for a \"two-minute warning\". However, NCAA football has no two-minute warning, but the clock stops on a first down until the ball is ready for play if the play ended in the field of play. In the CFL, each team has two time-outs a game but cannot use both in the last three minutes of the game, while at lower levels of Canadian football each team has two. In Canadian football there is a three-minute rather than a two-minute warning. Also, at all levels of Canadian football, the clock is stopped after every play during the last three minutes of each half. Once the referee has set the ball the clock will restart if the last play ended with a runner tackled in the field of play.\n\nTiming rules change drastically after the N-minute warning in both leagues:\n\nThese timing differences, combined with the fewer downs available for the Canadian offence to earn a first down, lead to spectacularly different end-games if the team leading the game has the ball. In American football, if the other team is out of time-outs, it is possible to run slightly more than 120 seconds (two minutes) off the clock without gaining a first down. In Canadian football, just over 40 seconds can be run off.\n\nCanadian football retains much more liberal rules regarding recovery of the ball by members of the kicking team. On any kick, the kicker and any member of the kicker's team behind the kicker at the time of the kick may recover and advance the ball. On a kickoff, since every member of the kicking team must be behind the ball when it is kicked, this effectively makes all twelve players \"onside\" and eligible to recover the kick, once it has gone ten yards downfield. On a punt or missed field goal, usually only the kicker is onside, as no one is behind the kicker. All of the players offside at the time of the kick may neither touch the ball nor be within five yards of the member of the receiving team who fields the kick; violation of this rule is a penalty for \"no yards\". The penalty for no yards is 15 yards if the kick is in flight and 5 yards if it has been grounded.\n\nThe American rules are similar for the recovery of kickoffs. Any member of the kicking team may recover the ball once it has touched an opponent or once it has gone ten yards downfield and touched the ground. The ball is dead when recovered, though the kicking team is awarded possession at the spot of recovery.\n\nThe American rules differ from the Canadian ones for scrimmage kicks. In American rules to recover a scrimmage kick (punt or missed field goal) and retain possession, the ball must be touched beyond the line of scrimmage by a member of the receiving team (defense). If the ball is touched by the receiving team and then recovered by the kicking team, the kicking team will retain possession and be awarded a first down. If the receiving team has not touched the ball before the kicking team touches it, it is \"first touching\" as described above in fair catches and punt returns.\n\nAdditionally, members of the kicking team must allow the receiving team the opportunity to catch a scrimmage kick in flight. There is no required distance; the NCAA revoked its rule of a 2-yard halo.\nOnce the scrimmage kick has touched the ground, the kicking team is free to recover, subject to the first touching rules.\n\nIn both codes, a scrimmage kick which is blocked and recovered by the kicking team behind the line of scrimmage is in play. The kicking team may then choose to either attempt another kick or try to advance the ball, however no turnover has taken place on the play (unless a member of the receiving team has control of the ball), and therefore, the kicking team either has to advance the ball to the first down marker, or loses the down, which often results in a turnover on downs.\n\nUnder Canadian rules, the defensive line can only hold up or block a receiver within one yard of the scrimmage lines. In the NFL, contact up to five yards from the line is allowed. This allows for more open plays in Canadian football.\n\nIn Canadian play, if the ball is fumbled out of bounds, the play ends with possession going to the team to last contact the ball in bounds (after the ball has completely left the possession of the fumbling ball carrier). A loose ball may be kicked forward (dribbled) provided it is then recovered by a player who is onside at the time of said kick. The ball may not, however, be intentionally kicked out of bounds to gain possession, this is then treated as a scrimmage kick out of bounds and possession goes to the opposing team. Incidental contact with the foot does not count as kicking the ball out of bounds. In American play, when a ball is fumbled out of bounds, the last team to have clear possession of the football is awarded possession, unless the ball goes out of the back or side of the end zone.\n\nA team may still lose possession after a fumble out of bounds if the fumble occurred on fourth down (third down in Canadian play) and the ball becomes dead short of the line to gain. Because of plays like the Holy Roller, the NFL changed its rule regarding advancing a fumbled ball on offense. If the offensive team fumbles in the last two minutes of either half, or on fourth down at any time, only the player who fumbled is allowed to advance the ball past the point of the fumble. If any other offensive player advances the ball toward the opponent's goal line, the ball is moved back to the spot of the fumble, and the defensive team gains possession on downs unless the ball is recovered behind the spot of the fumble.\n\nIn Canadian football any kick that goes into the end zone is a live ball, except for a successful field goal or if the goalposts are hit while the ball is in flight. If the player receiving the kick fails to return it out of the end zone, or (except on a kickoff) if the ball was kicked through the end zone, then the kicking team scores a single point (rouge), and the returning team scrimmages from its 35-yard line or, if the rouge is scored as a result of a missed field goal attempt, the receiving team may choose the last point of scrimmage. If a kickoff goes through the end zone without a player touching it or a kicked ball in flight hits a post without scoring a field goal, there is no score, and the receiving team scrimmages from its 25-yard line. If the kick is returned out of the end zone, the receiving team next scrimmages from the place that was reached (or if they reach the opponents' goal line, they score a touchdown); in the amateur levels of the game, they are given the ball at their 20-yard line if the kick was not returned that far.\n\nSingles do not exist in American football; however, only one point is counted when a safety is scored during a conversion attempt, in contrast to the two points scored on other safeties.\n\nAmerican football also allows a defending team to advance a missed field goal; however, because of the absence of singles and the goalpost position at the back of the end zone, the return is rarely exercised, except on a blocked kick, or as time expires in the half or in the game (with the most famous recent example being Chris Davis' game-ending return of a missed field goal for the winning touchdown in the 2013 Alabama–Auburn game). Most teams instead elect not to attempt a return and assume possession – at the previous line of scrimmage in the NCAA and at the spot of the kick in the NFL. Since the goalpost is out of bounds, any non-scoring kick that strikes the goalpost is dead, and the receiving team takes over possession from the spot of the kick or their own 20-yard line, whichever is further from the receiving team's goal. Likewise, any kickoff or punt which either is kicked through the end zone, is kicked into the end zone and rolls out of bounds (without being touched by a player), is touched in the end zone by a member of the kicking team (with no member of the receiving team having touched it), or is \"downed\" in the end zone by a member of the receiving team, results in a touchback – the receiving team is awarded possession on their own 20-yard line. If a player of the receiving team fields a kickoff or punt in the end zone, he has the option to down it in the end zone (resulting in a touchback) or to try and advance the ball.\n\nFollowing a successful field goal, in Canadian rules, the team scored upon has the option of receiving a kickoff, kicking off from its 35-yard line, or scrimmaging at its own 35-yard line (the CFL first instituted this rule in 1975, but eliminated this last option for the 2009 season, but it was reinstated for 2010). In American football, there is a kickoff by the scoring team after every score, with the exception of safeties (see below). The option for the scored-upon team to kick off after a touchdown exists in American amateur football, but it is very rarely exercised.\n\nCanadian football retains the open-field kick as a legal play, allowing a kick to be taken from anywhere on the field. The open-field kick may be used as a desperation last play by the offense: realizing they are unable to go the length of the field, they advance part of the way and attempt a drop kick, trying to score a field goal, or recover the ball in the end zone for a touchdown.\n\nConversely, the defence, facing a last-second field goal attempt in a tie game or game they lead by one point, will often position its punter and place-kicker in the end zone. If the field goal is missed, they can punt the ball back into the field of play and not concede a single. Multiple such kicks may be attempted on the same play. During the October 29, 2010, Toronto Argonauts game against the Montreal Alouettes, four kicks occurred in one play: after a Montreal missed field goal, the Argonauts punted from the end zone to about the 20-yard line. The ball was caught and immediately punted back to the end zone by Montreal to attempt a single, and finally the Argos punted but failed to kick it out of the end zone, where the Alouettes recovered it for a touchdown. \n\nAmerican football only allows free kicks and scrimmage kicks made from behind the line of scrimmage; any kick beyond the line of scrimmage or after change of possession would result in a penalty. (Some levels of American football allow the rare fair catch kick, which according to the NFL rules is neither a free kick nor scrimmage kick, but \"sui generis\".)\n\nIn both American and Canadian football, a safety (or safety touch) awards 2 points to the defending team if the offensive team is brought down in their end zone. In American football, the team giving up the safety must take a \"free kick\" from their own 20-yard line. In Canadian football, the team being awarded the 2 points has the option of scrimmaging from their own 35-yard line, kicking the ball off from their own 35-yard line, or having the opposing team kick off the ball from their own 35-yard line. In 2009, the CFL changed the latter option to be a kick-off from their own 25-yard line.\n\nIn both games, after a touchdown is scored, the scoring team may then attempt one play for additional points. In Canadian football, this play is called a \"convert\", and in American football, it is formally called a \"try\", although it is more commonly referred to as either a \"conversion\", \"extra point\", or \"point after touchdown (PAT)\". The additional points may be earned through a kick or a play from scrimmage. If done via kick, the scoring team gains one point, and if done from a scrimmage, the scoring team gains two.\n\nHowever, the position of the ball for attempts is different in the two games. Point-after-touchdown attempts are snapped from the following points (as of the 2015 season):.\n\nBecause the goalposts are on the goal line in Canada and the end line in the United States, a CFL kicker is at the same distance from the goalposts as an NFL kicker. Before the 2015 CFL season, that league used the 5-yard line for all attempts, which meant that the Canadian kicker was closer to the goal posts than an American kicker at any level. Amateur Canadian kickers remain closer to their goal posts than their American counterparts.\n\nAccording to the rules of both the NFL and NCAA, on conversion attempts, the ball will automatically be spotted in the middle of the field at the appropriate scrimmage line unless a member of the kicking team expressly asks a referee for an alternative placement. Per the rules, the ball can be placed at another spot between the hash marks (especially for strategic positioning on a 2-point conversion attempt) or at another spot further back from the 2-, 3-, or 15-yard line (not uncommon at lower levels of football, since as the season progresses, conditions may worsen toward the center of the field, especially at the spot from which the PAT is usually kicked; the kicker may thus request a spot where the footing is surer).\n\nDuring conversions, the ball is considered live in the CFL, American collegiate football, some high school associations, the now-defunct NFL Europa, and starting with the 2015 season the NFL itself. As such, this allows the defensive team to gain two points on an interception or fumble return should they reach the kicking team's end zone, or (in the CFL) one point should the defensive team make an open-field drop kick through the kicking team's goalposts. Conversely, in other levels of American football and amateur Canadian football, defensive teams cannot score during a try attempt.\n\nIn Canadian amateur football, the ball is not dead if a player kneels momentarily to, and does, recover a rolling snap, onside/lateral pass, or opponent's kick, while in American amateur football, such a situation produces a dead ball, unless the player is the holder for a place kick. The holder is allowed to catch the snap or recover a rolling snap while on a knee to hold the kick and may also rise to catch a high snap and immediately return to a knee.\n\nAt professional levels in both games, unless it is a clearly willful kneel or slide by a ball carrier to go down, a player must be touched while on the ground, otherwise, the player may stand up and continue to advance the ball. Hitting a player who is kneeling, sliding, or clearly intends to run the ball out of bounds (especially quarterbacks) is generally viewed as unsportsmanlike and is often penalized, and in the most blatant of cases (especially if it happens in the dying seconds of a game), the player may be subject to off-field disciplinary action by their respective league governing body, usually in the form of fines or suspensions.\n\nThe procedures to settle games that are tied at the end of regulation vary considerably among football leagues.\n\nMost leagues other than the NFL, including the CFL, use a procedure frequently called the \"Kansas Playoff\", so named because it was first developed for high school football in that state. The rules are summarized here:\n\nThe NFL overtime is a modified sudden-death period of 15 minutes, for playoff games only; since the 2017 season, overtime periods in the preseason and regular season are 10 minutes, as part of an overall effort by the NFL to speed up games and reduce their length. If the team that receives the opening kickoff scores a touchdown, or the defensive team scores a safety, the game ends at that point. If the receiving team scores a field goal, the game continues with the scoring team kicking off, and the scored-upon team having a chance at possession. If that team scores a touchdown, or loses possession, the game ends; if it scores a field goal, overtime continues, with the next score by either team ending the game. In the regular season, if a game remains tied after the 10-minute period, it is declared a tie. In postseason games, there are multiple 15-minute periods until a winner is decided.\n\nIn American high school and college football, as well as all Canadian football, receivers need only have one foot in bounds (provided the player's other foot does not come down out of bounds until the catch is made) for a catch to count as a reception. NFL play requires receivers to get both feet on the ground and in bounds after making the catch for a reception to count. Up through the 2007 season, an NFL official could award a catch if it was judged that the receiver would have come down in bounds if he had not been pushed by a defender. This rule was based on a judgment call by the official, and was criticized for being inconsistent. The rule was dropped prior to the 2008 season by the NFL.\n\n\nCFL roster sizes are 46 players (rather than 53 as in the NFL, though only 45 will dress for a game). A CFL team may dress up to 44 players comprising 21 \"nationals\" (essentially, Canadians), 20 \"internationals\" (almost exclusively Americans), and 3 quarterbacks.\n\nThe traditional NFL football season runs from the 2nd week of September until late December or the start of January, with the NFL playoffs occurring in January and February. In contrast, the CFL regular season runs from late June to late October. This is in order to ensure the Grey Cup playoffs can be completed in mid-November, before the harsh Canadian winters set in. This is an important consideration for a sport played in outdoor venues in locations such as Regina, Saskatchewan; Toronto, Ontario; Hamilton, Ontario; Calgary, Alberta; Edmonton, Alberta; Winnipeg, Manitoba and Montreal, Quebec.\n\nOfficials' penalty flags used in the CFL are orange in color. In American football, officials typically use yellow penalty flags. Conversely, coaches' challenge flags for replays are yellow in the CFL as opposed to red in the NFL. Further, in the CFL, the referee wears a black cap with white piping, and the other officials wear white caps with black piping. In American leagues, the referee wears a solid white cap, and the other officials wear black with white piping. Additionally, when announcing penalties, in American football, the penalized team is announced using generic terms (\"offense\"/\"defense\", for example), but in Canadian football (especially the CFL) the penalized team is announced by their respective city or province.\n\nThe CFL regular season has lasted 18 games since 1986, while the NFL regular season has consisted of 16 games since 1978. There are several radical differences concerning how the leagues calculate regular season records and how ties in the standings are broken:\n\n\n\nAlthough the rules of Canadian and American football have similarities, the differences have a great effect on how teams play and are managed. Generally, the \"big play\" is more important in the Canadian game, and offensive series are more difficult to manage.\n\nThe red zone is an unofficial designating the portion of the field between the 20-yard line and the goal line. Due to the goalposts' being on the goal line in Canadian football, teams must avoid hitting the goalposts. Thus most touchdown throws are aimed away from the centre portion of the end zone. In the CFL, the goalposts have the same construction as the NFL posts, with the centre post being about 2 yards deep in the end zone. It is extremely rare for CFL passes to hit any part of the posts. When this occurs, a dead ball results. Occasionally, receivers can use the post to good effect in a 'rub' play to shed a defender. End zone passing becomes even more complicated when the corners of the end zone are truncated, as is the case at stadia where the field is bounded by a running track. However, the offensive team enjoys a counteracting advantage of end zones more than twice the size of those in American football (20 yards with a wider field), significantly expanding the area that must be covered by the defensive team and also allowing the freedom to run some pass patterns not available in American football's red zone. Moreover, the rule requiring only a single foot to be in bounds upon pass reception in Canadian football further stretches the amount of area that the offenses have to work with. NFL offenses generally try a run between tackles when on the one-yard line. CFL offenses make similar attempts on first down on the one-yard line, but second and third down attempts, if required, can be much more varied than their NFL counterparts.\n\nThe frequency of punts is highly dependent upon the success, or lack thereof, of the offense. Punt returns are ubiquitous in Canadian football because the \"no-yards\" rule permits virtually every punt to be fielded and returned. Moreover, if the kicking team punts the ball out of bounds in an attempt to forestall a return and the ball goes out of bounds between the two 20-yard lines without touching the ground first, a 10-yard penalty is assessed and the ball advanced from where it left play, or the kicking team is backed up 10 yards and must replay the down. \"Shanked\" punts are therefore extremely costly to the kicking team. Though missed field goals may be returned in both national rule sets, the deeper end zone and goal post positioning make this much more common in Canadian rules. TSN on-air analysts state that they are the single play-from-scrimmage most likely to result in a touchdown. This set of special teams play (field goal return units) are rare in the American game to the point where a returner is not a standard part of a defensive field goal unit and will only be seen in unusual circumstances, with one especially notable example being the famous \"Kick Six\" college football game in 2013. Canadian kickoffs rarely result in a touchback, so special teams are more prominent in that area of the game as well. The difference in the games' final minutes procedures make comebacks — and the need for an onside kick 'hands' team, more prominent as well. The rule regarding last touch of the ball before leaving the play of field, rather than American football's last possession rule, makes the onside kick more likely to be successful as well. The most complex coaching job in Canadian football is said to be that of special teams co-ordinator. As many as 40 of a CFL roster of players may have a special teams role because of the wide variety of possible situations. In 2014 and 2015, the Edmonton Eskimos even used their third-string quarterbacks (Pat White in 2014 and Jordan Lynch in 2015) as part of their kick and kick-coverage teams. This is highly unusual, as quarterbacks are generally discouraged from making contact plays. Kick returning was a duty generally handled by a player with another role, such as receiver or defensive back. Henry \"The Gizmo\" Williams was the first player designated by telecasts as \"KR\" for a kicker returner position as his duties were almost entirely for that role, and referring to him as \"WR\" for wide receiver was increasingly seen as anachronistic. By far the greatest kick returner in professional football history, Gizmo Williams had more returns for touchdowns called back for infractions than any other player has ever scored (28 — 26 punts, 2 kick-offs). No NFL player has enjoyed similar success and the careers of such specialists (like Devin Hester) come nowhere near to matching the impact on the game that such players have in the CFL.\n\nHaving three downs on a much longer and wider field with unlimited backfield motion results in Canadian teams requiring faster, more nimble athletes (comparatively) than their American counterparts. Paradoxically, this makes Canadian defense better at defending rushing plays. Rushing plays tend to be unlikely to produce a full ten yard gain, and if correctly anticipated by the defense, much gain at all. The fewer downs means that an unsuccessful rushing play leaves an offense to have a single play to make comparatively longer first down yardage, so rushing plays are less-favored unless the team on offense is actively managing the clock while maintaining the lead. Pundits often like to claim that a Canadian team that rushes for 100 yards or more per game is likely to win, but the reality is winning teams rush the ball in defense of their leads, and not as a tactic to produce drives that lead to points unless they are markedly superior to their opponents. The larger field generally permits greater YAC (yards after catch) on each individual catch, where the NFL produces passing plays where there are either very few YAC yards (immediate tackle) or huge YAC yards (missed tackle or broken coverage for huge gains.) For this reason, Canadian teams usually prefer passing over rushing to a greater extent than American, since pass attempts generally tend to gain more yards than rushing. Offensive drives (continuous possession of the ball) tend to be shorter. Long drives of half a quarter or more are common in American football but rare in Canadian.\nIn theory, an NFL team taking possession on their own one-yard line, using three downs for each first-down conversion and the full 40 second clock could run 27 plays and consume a full 18 minutes of clock time covering the 99 yards. A CFL team doing something similar (two plays per conversion, 20 second clock, average 10 seconds of clock time while the officials reset the ball between plays, 109 yards) would run 24 plays and consume 12 minutes of clock at the most. Typical drive lengths in practice reflect this theoretical difference.\n\nOne other notable difference is the propensity of CFL quarterbacks to rush the ball, both by design and as a result of reacting to the defense. Damon Allen (the younger brother of Pro Football Hall of Fame running back Marcus Allen) had 11,920 rushing yards to go along with 72,381 passing yards in his 23-year career and actually sits third overall in career rushing yards. Contrast that will Randall Cunnigham's 4928 yards over 16 seasons. 1000 yard rushing seasons for CFL quarterbacks have occurred, and 400+ yard seasons for playoff bound teams' starting quarterbacks, if they remain healthy for the entire schedule, are not unusual.\n\nPerhaps the greatest difference arises due to the virtually unlimited movement allowed in the defensive and offensive backfields on a play from scrimmage in the Canadian game vs. very restricted offensive movement in the American game. Combined with the much larger field size, this difference changes the skillsets required of the athletes. Canadian wide receivers, safeties and cornerbacks are far enough from the point where the ball is snapped that they rarely participate in rush offense or defense. Linebackers can be called upon to successfully defend running backs sent to receive passes. There is therefore a much greater premium placed on athletic speed, with former Edmonton Eskimos GM and former wide receiver Ed Hervey (, , All-American at USC in the 200 meter) and Malcolm Frank ( ) being prototypical for the CFL. The offence has many more formation options and starting positions, forcing the defence to anticipate more possibilities. Seven of the 12 men on a CFL offense (typically the five linemen and the wide receivers) must be at the line of scrimmage at the time of the snap, and the other five must be at least one yard behind the line. Only the quarterback and linemen must be motionless at the time of the snap, allowing up to six players to be moving toward or along the line at varying speeds (typically the wide receivers are still or at a walking pace at the snap to ensure they are at the line of scrimmage.)\n\nIn both the college and pro games, an offensive team with the lead has more difficulty in running out the clock in the Canadian game. In the Canadian Football League, the clock is stopped while the officials place the ball, and then they whistle the game clock and play clock to begin in the last minutes of a half; whereas in the National Football League the clock remains running while the officials set the ball (dependent upon the result of the previous play—penalty, incomplete pass, out-of-bounds, or tackle inbounds in both leagues) while the play clock of 40 seconds runs down. The game clock only begins again when the play is whistled in, for an inbounds tackle, or at the snap of the ball for the other outcomes in the CFL. A team that is ahead has one fewer opportunity to kill clock time in the Canadian game with three downs, and can only take the play clock time (20 seconds) and the length of the play itself off the clock with each down. On the other hand, Canadian teams only receive one timeout per half, as opposed to three in American football. After the three-minute warning, a penalty of a loss of down (on first and second down, 10 yards on third down) results for failing to start the new play in time (time count violation). Additionally, if a Canadian team commits a time count violation on third down, the referee has the right to require that it legally start a new play before the play clock expires, and can award possession to the defending team if another time count is committed. Moreover, in any quarter, when the game clock expires while the ball is dead in Canadian football, a final play must by run with \"zeros on the clock\" before the quarter ends, whereas in American football the expiration of time while the ball is dead immediately ends the quarter (including overtime periods in such cases where those periods are timed) - in American football, it is common (or even, arguably, expected) for teams including coaching staffs and other such personnel to come on the field in order to shake hands, etc. before the game clock officially expires, especially in cases where the trailing team does not have possession of the ball, has no timeouts left and the result of the final play of the game left the clock running with less than forty seconds left. The main caveats are that in all gridiron codes, a half cannot end on any penalty accepted by the non-penalized team even if there is no time remaining on the clock, and a team may always elect to attempt a conversion after a touchdown even if time is expired, so it is always possible for a final play to run with \"zeros on the clock\" under such circumstances. If a team that is trailing in the CFL can begin to produce two-and-outs on defense and efficient scoring drives on offense, 14 and even 17 points can be successfully scored in the final three minutes. This comeback proclivity is so pronounced that the CFL uses it for marketing purposes: No Lead Is Safe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1951498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1951498", "title": "Drink coaster", "text": "Drink coaster\n\nA coaster, drink coaster, beverage coaster, or beermat is an item used to rest drinks upon. Coasters protect the surface of a table or any other surface where the user might place a drink. Coasters placed on top of a beverage can also be used to show that a drink is not finished or to prevent contamination (usually from insects). Coasters can also stop hot drinks burning the table surface. \n\nPubs usually will have beermats spread out across their surfaces. They are used not just to protect the surface of the table, but, as they are usually made of paper, they can also be used to absorb condensation dripping along the glass or serve as an ad-hoc notepad. Beermats are often branded with trademarks or alcohol advertising. Beermats are not to be confused with bar mats, rectangular pieces of rubber or absorbent material used to protect the countertop and limit the spread of spilled drinks in a bar or pub.\n\nThe first coasters were designed for decanters or wine bottles, so that they could be slid (or \"coasted\") around the dinner table after the servants had retired. They were in common use after about 1760. Early coasters took the form of a shallow tray or dish made of wood, papier-mâché, silver or silver plate.\n\nIn 1880, the first beermats made of cardboard were introduced by the German printing company, Friedrich Horn. In 1892, of Dresden manufactured the first beermat made of wood pulp. Watney brewery introduced them to the United Kingdom in 1920 to advertise their pale ale. The packaging company Quarmby Promotions, established in 1872, began manufacturing beermats in Milnsbridge in 1931. After Quarmby Promotions was taken over by the Katz Group, it moved production to Brighouse and in 2006 to Morley, West Yorkshire, before closing its production in 2009.\n\nSaucers are also long used in western culture for much the same purpose. When drinking tea, it is customary to use a cup and saucer set. By the mid-twentieth century, drink coasters made in many materials and styles were being manufactured for domestic use. Today, they are common as an everyday houseware piece and are also used in restaurants.\n\nCoasters are often made from high grammage paperboard, but may also be made from several layers of tissue paper. Important parameters for beer mats are water absorbency, wet rub and printability.\n\nMore recently, glass coasters with empty frames have been produced. The consumer can then personalize each one with a different picture or design. More recently some beermat manufacturers have overhauled their manufacturing processes, allowing them to supply bespoke pulpboard beermats in quantities as low as 100 without significant price premiums associated with smaller print orders. This has expanded the reach of the beermat with individuals choosing to have bespoke beermats printed for their wedding and political parties utilising them to deliver campaign messages. \n\nCoaster Factory and Canada Coaster, based in North America, and The Katz Group, based in Weisenbach, Germany, produce approximately 75% of the estimated 5.5 billion beermats in the world, including about two-thirds of the European market and 97% of the US market. In addition to the factory in Weisenbach, Katz has another two conversion factories in the U.S.: one in Sanborn, New York, and the other in Johnson City, Tennessee.\n\nDrink coasters are also made from soapstone, metal, wood and silicone.\n\nBeermats are usually adorned with a customized image—usually mentioning or advertising a brand of beer, although they can also be used to promote a drinking establishment, sports franchise, businesses or special events.\n\nSome coasters are collectible items. \"Tegestology\" is a term coined from Latin (\"teges\", -\"etis\", \"covering, mat\") defined as the practice of collecting beermats or coasters, with practitioners known as \"tegestologists\". A 1960 British Pathe News short shows comedy duo Morecambe and Wise as tegestologists.\n\n"}
{"id": "9840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9840", "title": "Elijah", "text": "Elijah\n\nElijah (; ; , meaning \"My God is Yahweh/YHWH\") or latinized form Elias ( ) was, according to the Books of Kings in the Hebrew Bible, a prophet and a miracle worker who lived in the northern kingdom of Israel during the reign of King Ahab (9th century BC). In 1 Kings 18, Elijah defended the worship of the Hebrew God over that of the Canaanite deity Baal. God also performed many miracles through Elijah, including resurrection (raising the dead), bringing fire down from the sky, and entering Heaven alive \"by fire\". He is also portrayed as leading a school of prophets known as \"the sons of the prophets\". Following his ascension, Elisha, his disciple and most devoted assistant took over his role as leader of this school. The Book of Malachi prophesies Elijah's return \"before the coming of the great and terrible day of the \", making him a harbinger of the Messiah and of the eschaton in various faiths that revere the Hebrew Bible. References to Elijah appear in Ecclesiasticus, the New Testament, the Mishnah and Talmud, the Quran, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and Bahá'í writings.\n\nIn Judaism, Elijah's name is invoked at the weekly Havdalah ritual that marks the end of Shabbat, and Elijah is invoked in other Jewish customs, among them the Passover Seder and the brit milah (ritual circumcision). He appears in numerous stories and references in the Haggadah and rabbinic literature, including the Babylonian Talmud.\n\nThe Christian New Testament notes that some people thought that Jesus was, in some sense, Elijah. But Jesus makes it clear that John the Baptist is \"the Elijah\" who was promised to come in Malachi 3:1 in the Septuagint. (Malachi 4:5) Elijah appears with Moses during the Transfiguration of Jesus. Elijah is also a figure in various Christian folk traditions, at times identified with earlier pagan thunder or sky gods.\n\nIn Islam, Elijah appears in the Quran as a prophet and messenger of God, where his biblical narrative of preaching against the worshipers of Baal is recounted in a concise form. Due to his importance to Muslims, Catholics and Orthodox Christians, Elijah has been venerated as the patron saint of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1752.\n\nAccording to the Bible, by the 9th century BC, the Kingdom of Israel, once united under Solomon, was divided into the northern Kingdom of Israel and southern Kingdom of Judah, which retained the historical capital of Jerusalem along with its Temple. However, scholars today are divided as to whether the united Kingdom under Solomon ever existed. Omri, King of Israel, continued policies dating from the reign of Jeroboam, contrary to religious law, that were intended to reorient religious focus away from Jerusalem: encouraging the building of local temple altars for sacrifices, appointing priests from outside the family of the Levites, and allowing or encouraging temples dedicated to Baal, an important deity in ancient Canaanite religion. Omri achieved domestic security with a marriage alliance between his son Ahab and princess Jezebel, a priestess of Baal and the daughter of the king of Sidon in Phoenicia. These solutions brought security and economic prosperity to Israel for a time, but did not bring peace with the Israelite prophets, who were interested in a strict deuteronomic interpretation of the religious law.\n\nUnder Ahab's kingship, these tensions were exacerbated. Ahab built a temple for Baal, and his wife Jezebel brought a large entourage of priests and prophets of Baal and Asherah into the country. It is in this context that Elijah is introduced in as Elijah \"the Tishbite\". He warns Ahab that there will be years of catastrophic drought so severe that not even dew will form, because Ahab and his queen stand at the end of a line of kings of Israel who are said to have \"done evil in the sight of the Lord.\"\n\nNo background for the person of Elijah is given except for his brief description as being a \"Tishbite.\" His name in Hebrew means \"My God is Yahweh\", and may be a title applied to him because of his challenge to worship of Baal.\n\nAs told in the Hebrew Bible, Elijah's challenge is bold and direct. Baal was the Canaanite god responsible for rain, thunder, lightning, and dew.\nElijah not only challenges Baal on behalf of God himself, but he also challenges Jezebel, her priests, Ahab and the people of Israel.\n\nAfter Elijah's confrontation with Ahab, God tells him to flee out of Israel, to a hiding place by the brook Chorath, east of the Jordan, where he will be fed by ravens. When the brook dries up, God sends him to a widow living in the town of Zarephath in Phoenicia. When Elijah finds her and asks to be fed, she says that she does not have sufficient food to keep her and her own son alive. Elijah tells her that God will not allow her supply of flour or oil to run out, saying, \"Do not be afraid ... For thus says the Lord the God of Israel: The jar of meal will not be emptied and the jug of oil will not fail until the day that the Lord sends rain on the earth.\" She feeds him the last of their food, and Elijah's promise miraculously comes true. God gave her \"manna\" from heaven even while he was withholding food from his unfaithful people in the promised land. Some time later the widow's son dies and the widow cries, \"You have come to me to bring my sin to remembrance, and to cause the death of my son!\" Elijah prays that God might restore her son so that the trustworthiness of God's word might be demonstrated. 1 Kings 17:22 relates how God \"listened to the voice of Elijah; the life of the child came into him again, and he revived.\" This is the first instance of raising the dead recorded in Scripture. This non-Israelite widow was granted the life of her son, the only hope for a widow in ancient society. The widow cried, \"...the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.\" She made a confession that the Israelites had failed to make.\n\nAfter more than three years of drought and famine, God tells Elijah to return to Ahab and announce the end of the drought: not occasioned by repentance in Israel but by the command of the Lord, who had determined to reveal himself again to his people. While on his way, Elijah meets Obadiah, the head of Ahab's household, who had hidden a hundred Jewish prophets when Ahab and Jezebel had been killing them. Elijah sends Obadiah back to Ahab to announce his return to Israel.\n\nWhen Ahab confronts Elijah, he refers to him as the \"troubler of Israel.\" Elijah responds by throwing the charge back at Ahab, saying that it is Ahab who has troubled Israel by allowing the worship of false gods. Elijah then berates both the people of Israel and Ahab for their acquiescence in Baal worship. \"How long will you go limping with two different opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him.\" And the people were silent. The Hebrew for this word, \"go limping\" or \"waver\", is the same as that used for \"danced\" in 1 Kings 18, verse 26, where the prophets of Baal frantically dance. Elijah speaks with sharp irony about the religious ambivalence of Israel.\n\nElijah proposes a direct test of the powers of Baal and the Jewish God. The people of Israel, 450 prophets of Baal, and 400 prophets of Asherah are summoned to Mount Carmel. Two altars are built, one for Baal and one for God. Wood is laid on the altars. Two oxen are slaughtered and cut into pieces; the pieces are laid on the wood. Elijah then invites the priests of Baal to pray for fire to light the sacrifice. They pray from morning to noon without success. Elijah ridicules their efforts. \"At noon Elijah mocked them, saying, 'Cry aloud! Surely he is a god; either he is meditating, or he has wandered away, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened.'\" They respond by cutting themselves and adding their own blood to the sacrifice (such mutilation of the body was strictly forbidden in the Mosaic law). They continue praying until evening without success.\n\nElijah now orders that the altar of God be drenched with water from \"four large jars\" poured three times. He asks God to accept the sacrifice. Fire falls from the sky, consuming the water, the sacrifice and the stones of the altar itself as well. Elijah then orders the deaths of the priests of Baal. Elijah prays earnestly for rain to fall again on the land. Then the rains begin, signaling the end of the famine.\n\nJezebel, enraged that Elijah had ordered the deaths of her priests, threatens to kill Elijah. Later Elijah would prophesize about Jezebel's death, because of her sin. Elijah flees to Beersheba in Judah, continues alone into the wilderness, and finally sits down under a shrub, praying for death. He falls asleep under the tree; the angel of the Lord touches him and tells him to wake up and eat. When he awakens he finds bread and a jar of water. He eats, drinks, and goes back to sleep. The angel comes a second time and tells him to eat and drink because he has a long journey ahead of him.\n\nElijah travels for forty days and forty nights to Mount Horeb, where Moses had received the Ten Commandments. Elijah is the only person described in the Bible as returning to Horeb, after Moses and his generation had left Horeb several centuries before. He seeks shelter in a cave. God again speaks to Elijah: \"What doest thou here, Elijah?\". Elijah did not give a direct answer to the Lord's question but evades and equivocates, implying that the work the Lord had begun centuries earlier had now come to nothing, and that his own work was fruitless. Unlike Moses, who tried to defend Israel when they sinned with the golden calf, Elijah bitterly complains over the Israelites' unfaithfulness and says he is the \"only one left\". Up until this time Elijah has only the word of God to guide him, but now he is told to go outside the cave and \"stand before the Lord.\" A terrible wind passes, but God is not in the wind. A great earthquake shakes the mountain, but God is not in the earthquake. Then a fire passes the mountain, but God is not in the fire. Then a \"still small voice\" comes to Elijah and asks again, \"What doest thou here, Elijah?\" Elijah again evades the question and his lament is unrevised, showing that he did not understand the importance of the divine revelation he had just witnessed. God then sends him out again, this time to Damascus to anoint Hazael as king of Aram, Jehu as king of Israel, and Elisha as his replacement.\n\nElijah encounters Ahab again in , after Ahab has acquired possession of a vineyard by murder. Ahab desires to have the vineyard of Naboth of Jezreel. He offers a better vineyard or a fair price for the land. But Naboth tells Ahab that God has told him not to part with the land. Ahab accepts this answer with sullen bad grace. Jezebel, however, plots a method for acquiring the land. She sends letters, in Ahab's name, to the elders and nobles who lived near Naboth. They are to arrange a feast and invite Naboth. At the feast, false charges of cursing God and Ahab are to be made against him. The plot is carried out and Naboth is stoned to death. When word comes that Naboth is dead, Jezebel tells Ahab to take possession of the vineyard.\n\nGod again speaks to Elijah and sends him to confront Ahab with a question and a prophecy: \"Have you killed, and also taken possession?\" and, \"In the place where dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, dogs will also lick up your blood.\" Ahab begins the confrontation by calling Elijah his enemy. Elijah responds by throwing the charge back at him, telling him that he has made himself the enemy of God by his own actions. Elijah then goes beyond the prophecy he was given and tells Ahab that his entire kingdom will reject his authority; that Jezebel will be eaten by dogs within Jezreel; and that his family will be consumed by dogs as well (if they die in a city) or by birds (if they die in the country). When Ahab hears this he repents to such a degree that God relents in punishing Ahab but will punish Jezebel and their son: Ahaziah.\n\nElijah's story continues now from Ahab to an encounter with Ahaziah. The scene opens with Ahaziah seriously injured in a fall. He sends to the priests of Baalzebub in Ekron, outside the kingdom of Israel, to know if he will recover. Elijah intercepts his messengers and sends them back to Ahaziah with a message \"Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?\" Ahaziah asks the messengers to describe the person who gave them this message. They tell him he was a hairy man with a leather belt around his waist and he instantly recognizes the description as Elijah the Tishbite.\n\nAhaziah sends out three groups of soldiers to arrest Elijah. The first two are destroyed by fire which Elijah calls down from heaven. The leader of the third group asks for mercy for himself and his men. Elijah agrees to accompany this third group to Ahaziah, where he gives his prophecy in person. Ahaziah dies without recovering from his injuries in accordance with Elijah's word.\n\nAccording to , Elisha (Eliseus) and \"the sons of the prophets\" knew beforehand that Elijah would one day be assumed into heaven. Elisha asked Elijah to \"let a double portion\" of Elijah's \"spirit\" be upon him. Elijah agreed, with the condition that Elisha would see him be \"taken\".\n\nElijah, in company with Elisha, approaches the Jordan. He rolls up his mantle and strikes the water. The water immediately divides and Elijah and Elisha cross on dry land. Suddenly, a chariot of fire and horses of fire appear and Elijah is lifted up in a whirlwind. As Elijah is lifted up, his mantle falls to the ground and Elisha picks it up.\n\nElijah is mentioned once more in , which will be his final mention in the Hebrew Bible. A letter is sent under the prophet's name to Jehoram of Judah. It tells him that he has led the people of Judah astray in the same way that Israel was led astray. The prophet ends the letter with a prediction of a painful death. This letter is a puzzle to readers for several reasons. First, it concerns a king of the southern kingdom, while Elijah concerned himself with the kingdom of Israel. Second, the message begins with \"Thus says YHVH, God of your father David...\" rather than the more usual \"...in the name of YHVH the God of Israel.\" Also, this letter seems to come after Elijah's ascension into the whirlwind. Michael Wilcock, formerly of Trinity College, Bristol, suggests a number of possible reasons for this letter, among them that it may be an example of a better known prophet's name being substituted for that of a lesser known prophet. John Van Seters, however, rejects the letter as having any connection with the Elijah tradition. However, Wilcock argues that Elijah's letter, 'does address a very 'northern' situation in the southern kingdom', and thus is authentic.\n\nWhile the final mention of Elijah in the Hebrew Bible is in the Book of Chronicles, the Christian Bible's ordering of the books of the Septuagint places the Book of Malachi, which prophesies a messiah, before the Gospels and means that Elijah's final Old Testament appearance is in the Book of Malachi, where it is written, \"Lo, I will send you the prophet Elijah before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes.\" That day is described as the burning of a great furnace, \"... so that it will leave them neither root nor branch.\" In Christianity it is traditionally believed that Elijah's appearance during the transfiguration of Jesus fulfilled this prophecy. Moreover, in the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus identifies John the Baptist as the spiritual successor to Elijah: \"and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come.\" Finally, the verses in Malachi are believed to indicate that Elijah has a role in the end-times, immediately before the second coming of Jesus.\n\nAccording to Susanne Otto, the Elijah stories were added to the Deuteronomistic History in four stages. The first stage dates from the final edition of the History, about 560 BC, when the three stories of Naboth's vineyard, the death of Ahaziah, and the story of Jehu's coup were included to embody the themes of the reliability of God's word and the cycle of Baal worship and religious reform in the history of the Northern Kingdom. The narratives about the Omride wars were added shortly afterwards to illustrate a newly introduced theme, that the attitude of the king towards God determines the fate of Israel. According to Otto, was added in early post-Exilic times (after 538 BC) to demonstrate the possibility of a new life in community with God after the time of judgment. Additionally, Otto suggests that in the fifth century BC, and the remaining Elisha stories were inserted to give prophecy a legitimate foundation in the history of Israel. The foregoing Otto analysis is heavily disputed amongst biblical scholars.\n\nJewish legends about Elijah abound in the aggadah, which is found throughout various collections of rabbinic literature, including the Babylonian Talmud. This varied literature does not merely discuss his life, but has created a new history of him, which, beginning with his death or \"translation\" ends only with the close of the history of the human race. The volume of references to Elijah in Jewish Tradition stands in marked contrast to that in the Canon. As in the case of most figures of Jewish legend, so in the case of Elijah, the biblical account became the basis of later legend. Elijah the precursor of the Messiah, Elijah zealous in the cause of God, Elijah the helper in distress: these are the three leading notes struck by the Aggadah, endeavoring to complete the biblical picture with the Elijah legends. His career is extensive, colorful, and varied. He has appeared the world over in the guise of a beggar and scholar.\n\nFrom the time of Malachi, who says of Elijah that God will send him before \"the great and dreadful day\" (Mal. 3:23), down to the later stories of the Chasidic rabbis, reverence and love, expectation and hope, were always connected in the Jewish consciousness with Elijah.\n\nThree different theories regarding Elijah's origin are presented in the Aggadah literature:\n(1) he belonged to the tribe of Gad,\n(2) he was a Benjamite from Jerusalem, identical with the Elijah mentioned in I Chronicles 8:27, and\n(3) he was a priest.\n\nMany Christian Church fathers also have stated that Elijah was a priest. Some Rabbis have speculated that he should be identified with Phinehas.\n\nAccording to later Kabbalistic literature, Elijah was really an angel in human form, so that he had neither parents nor offspring. See Melchizedek.\n\nThe Midrash Rabbah Exodus 4:2 states \"Elijah should have revived his parents as he had revived the son of the Zarephathite\" indicating he surely had parents.\n\nThe Talmud states \"Said he [Rabbah] to him (Elijah): Art thou not a priest: why then dost thou stand in a cemetery?\"\n\nIn spite of Elijah's many miracles, the mass of the Jewish people remained as godless as before. A midrash tells that they even abolished the sign of the covenant, and the prophet had to appear as Israel's accuser before God.\n\nIn the same cave where God once appeared to Moses and revealed Himself as gracious and merciful, Elijah was summoned to appear before God. By this summons he perceived that he should have appealed to God's mercy, instead of becoming Israel's accuser. The prophet, however, remained relentless in his zeal and severity, so that God commanded him to appoint his successor.\n\nThe vision in which God revealed Himself to Elijah gave him at the same time a picture of the destinies of man, who has to pass through \"four worlds.\" This world was shown to the prophet by God through symbolism: in the form of the wind, since it disappears as the wind; storm is the day of death, before which man trembles; fire is the judgment in Gehenna; and the stillness is the last day.\n\nThree years after this vision Elijah was \"translated.\" Concerning the place to which Elijah was transferred, opinions differ among Jews and Christians, but the old view was that Elijah was received among the heavenly inhabitants, where he records the deeds of men, a task which according to the apocalyptic literature is entrusted to Enoch.\n\nBut as early as the middle of the 2nd century, when the notion of translation to heaven underwent divergent possible interpretations by Christian theologians, the assertion was made that Elijah never entered into heaven proper. In later literature paradise is generally designated as the abode of Elijah, but since the location of paradise is itself uncertain, the last two statements may be identical.\n\nIn the Wisdom of Jesus ben Sira () his tasks are altered to: 1) herald the eschaton, 2) calm God's fury, 3) restore familial peace, and 4) restore the 12 tribes.\n\nAt Jewish circumcision ceremonies, a chair is set aside for the use of the prophet Elijah. Elijah is said to be a witness at all circumcisions when the sign of the covenant is placed upon the body of the child. This custom stems from the incident at Mount Horeb (): Elijah had arrived at Mount Horeb after the demonstration of God's presence and power on Mount Carmel. () God asks Elijah to explain his arrival, and Elijah replies: \"I have been very jealous for the Lord, the God of hosts; for the people of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thy altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away\" (). According to Rabbinic tradition, Elijah's words were patently untrue ( and ), and since Elijah accused Israel of failing to uphold the covenant, God would require Elijah to be present at every covenant of circumcision.\n\nIn the Talmudic literature, Elijah would visit rabbis to help solve particularly difficult legal problems. Malachi had cited Elijah as the harbinger of the eschaton. Thus, when confronted with reconciling impossibly conflicting laws or rituals, the rabbis would set aside any decision \"until Elijah comes.\"\n\nOne such decision was whether the Passover Seder required four or five cups of wine. Each serving of wine corresponds to one of the \"four expressions of redemption\" in the Book of Exodus:\n\nI am the Lord, and \"I will bring you out\" from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and \"I will deliver you\" from their bondage, and \"I will redeem you\" with an out-stretched arm and with great acts of judgment, and \"I will take you\" for my people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who has brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians\" ().\n\nThe next verse, \"And \"I will bring you\" into the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; I will give it to you for a possession. I am the Lord.\" () was not fulfilled until the generation following the Passover story, and the rabbis could not decide whether this verse counted as part of the Passover celebration (thus deserving of another serving of wine). Thus, a cup was left for the arrival of Elijah.\n\nIn practice the fifth cup has come to be seen as a celebration of future redemption. Today, a place is reserved at the seder table and a cup of wine is placed there for Elijah. During the seder, the door of the house is opened and Elijah is invited in. Traditionally, the cup is viewed as Elijah's and is used for no other purpose.\n\nHavdalah is the ceremony that concludes the Sabbath Day (Saturday evening in Jewish tradition). As part of the concluding hymn, an appeal is made to God that Elijah will come during the following week. \"Elijah the Prophet, Elijah the Tishbite. Let him come quickly, in our day with the messiah, the son of David.\"\n\nThe volume of references to Elijah in folklore stands in marked contrast to that in the canon. Elijah's miraculous transferral to heaven led to speculation as to his true identity. Louis Ginzberg equates him with Phinehas the grandson of Aaron (). Because of Phinehas' zealousness for God, he and his descendants were promised, \"a covenant of lasting priesthood\" (). Therefore, Elijah is a priest as well as a prophet. Elijah is also equated with the Archangel Sandalphon, whose four wing beats will carry him to any part of the earth. When forced to choose between death and dishonor, Rabbi Kahana chose to leap to his death. Before he could strike the ground, Elijah/Sandalphon had appeared to catch him. Yet another name for Elijah is \"Angel of the Covenant\"\n\nReferences to Elijah in Jewish folklore range from short observations (e. g. It is said that when dogs are happy for no reason, it is because Elijah is in the neighborhood) to lengthy parables on the nature of God's justice.\n\nOne such story is that of Rabbi Joshua ben Levi. The rabbi, a friend of Elijah's, was asked what favor he might wish. The rabbi answered only that he be able to join Elijah in his wanderings. Elijah granted his wish only if he refrained from asking any questions about any of the prophet's actions. He agreed and they began their journey. The first place they came to was the house of an elderly couple who were so poor they had only one old cow. The old couple gave of their hospitality as best they could. The next morning, as the travelers left, Elijah prayed that the old cow would die and it did. The second place they came to was the home of a wealthy man. He had no patience for his visitors and chased them away with the admonition that they should get jobs and not beg from honest people. As they were leaving, they passed the man's wall and saw that it was crumbling. Elijah prayed that the wall be repaired and it was so. Next, they came to a wealthy synagogue. They were allowed to spend the night with only the smallest of provisions. When they left, Elijah prayed that every member of the synagogue might become a leader.\n\nFinally, they came to a very poor synagogue. Here they were treated with great courtesy and hospitality. When they left, Elijah prayed that God might give them a single wise leader. At this Rabbi Joshua could no longer hold back. He demanded of Elijah an explanation of his actions. At the house of the old couple, Elijah knew that the Angel of Death was coming for the old woman. So he prayed that God might have the angel take the cow instead. At the house of the wealthy man, there was a great treasure hidden in the crumbling wall. Elijah prayed that the wall be restored thus keeping the treasure away from the miser. The story ends with a moral: A synagogue with many leaders will be ruined by many arguments. A town with a single wise leader will be guided to success and prosperity. \"Know then, that if thou seest an evil-doer prosper, it is not always unto his advantage, and if a righteous man suffers need and distress, think not God is unjust.\"\n\nThe Elijah of legend did not lose any of his ability to afflict the comfortable. The case of Rabbi Eliezer son of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai is illustrative. Once, when walking a beach, he came upon a hideously ugly man—the prophet in disguise. The man greeted him courteously, \"Peace be with thee, Rabbi.\" Instead of returning the greeting, the rabbi could not resist an insult, \"How ugly you are! Is there anyone as ugly as you in your town?\" Elijah responded with, \"I don't know. Perhaps you should tell the Master Architect how ugly is this, His construction.\" The rabbi realized his wrong and asked for pardon. But Elijah would not give it until the entire city had asked for forgiveness for the rabbi and the rabbi had promised to mend his ways.\n\nElijah was always seen as deeply pious, it seems only natural that he would be pitted against an equally evil individual. This was found in the person of Lilith. Lilith in legend was the first wife of Adam. She rebelled against Adam, the angels, and even God. She came to be seen as a demon and a witch.\n\nElijah encountered Lilith and instantly recognized and challenged her, \"Unclean one, where are you going?\" Unable to avoid or lie to the prophet, she admitted she was on her way to the house of a pregnant woman. Her intention was to kill the woman and eat the child.\n\nElijah pronounced his malediction, \"I curse you in the Name of the Lord. Be silent as a stone!\" But, Lilith was able to make a bargain with Elijah. She promises to \"forsake my evil ways\" if Elijah will remove his curse. To seal the bargain she gives Elijah her names so that they can be posted in the houses of pregnant women or new born children or used as amulets. Lilith promises, \"where I see those names, I shall run away at once. Neither the child nor the mother will ever be injured by me.\"\n\nIn the New Testament, Jesus would say for those who believed, John the Baptist was Elijah, who would come before the \"great and terrible day\" as predicted by Malachi.\n\nSome English translations of the New Testament use Elias, a Latin form of the name. In the King James Version, \"Elias\" appears only in the texts translated from Greek.\n\nJohn the Baptist preached a message of repentance and baptism. He predicted the day of judgment using imagery similar to that of Malachi. He also preached that the Messiah was coming. All of this was done in a style that immediately recalled the image of Elijah to his audience. He wore a coat of camel's hair secured with a leather girdle (, ). He also frequently preached in wilderness areas near the Jordan River.\n\nIn the Gospel of John, when John the Baptist was asked by a delegation of priests (present tense) \"Art thou Elias\", he replied \"I am not\" (). and however, make it clear that John was the spiritual successor to Elijah. In the Nativity of St. John the Baptist in Luke, Gabriel appears to Zechariah, John's father, and told him that John \"will turn many of the sons of Israel to the Lord their God,\" and that he will go forth \"in the spirit and power of Elijah\" ().\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, Herod Antipas hears some of the stories surrounding Jesus Christ. Some tell Herod that Jesus is John the Baptist (whom Herod had executed) come back to life. Others tell him that Jesus is Elijah. Later in the same gospel, Jesus asks his disciples who the people say that he is. The apostles' answer includes Elijah among others.\n\nHowever Jesus' ministry had little in common with that of Elijah; in particular, he preached the forgiveness of one's enemies, while Elijah killed his. Miracle stories similar to those of Elijah were associated with Jesus (e. g. raising of the dead, miraculous feeding). Jesus implicitly separates himself from Elijah when he rebukes James and John for desiring to call down fire upon an unwelcoming Samaritan village in a similar manner to Elijah. Likewise, Jesus rebukes a potential follower who wanted first to return home to say farewell to his family, whereas Elijah permitted this of his replacement Elisha.\n\nDuring Jesus' crucifixion, some of the onlookers wonder if Elijah will come to rescue him, as by the time of Jesus, Elijah had entered folklore as a rescuer of Jews in distress.\n\nElijah makes an appearance in the New Testament during an incident known as the Transfiguration.\n\nAt the summit of an unnamed mount, Jesus' face begins to shine. The disciples who are with Him hear the voice of God announce that Jesus is \"My beloved Son.\" The disciples also see Moses and Elijah appear and talk with Jesus. Peter is so struck by the experience that he asks Jesus if they should build three \"tabernacles\": one for Elijah, one for Jesus and one for Moses.\n\nThere is agreement among some Christian theologians that Elijah appears to hand over the responsibility of the prophets to Jesus as the woman by the well said to Jesus (John 4:19) \"I perceive thou art a prophet.\" Moses also likewise came to hand over the responsibility of the law for the divinely announced Son of God.\n\nElijah is mentioned four more times in the New Testament: in Luke, Romans, Hebrews, and James. In , Jesus uses Elijah as an example of rejected prophets. Jesus says, \"No prophet is accepted in his own country,\" and then mentions Elijah, saying that there were many widows in Israel, but Elijah was sent to one in Phoenicia. In , Paul cites Elijah as an example of God's never forsaking his people (the Israelites). (\"Women received their dead raised to life again...\") refers to both Elijah raising the son of the widow of Zarephath and Elisha raising the son of the woman of Shunem, citing both Elijah and Elisha as Old Testament examples of faith. In , James says, \"The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much,\" and then cites Elijah's prayers which started and ended the famine in Israel as examples.\n\nIn Western Christianity, the Prophet Elijah is commemorated as a saint with a feast day on 20 July by the Roman Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod. Catholics believe that he was unmarried and celibate.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite, he is commemorated on the same date (in the 21st century, Julian Calendar 20 July corresponds to Gregorian Calendar 2 August). He is greatly revered among the Orthodox as a model of the contemplative life. He is also commemorated on the Orthodox liturgical calendar on the Sunday of the Holy Fathers (the Sunday before the Nativity of the Lord).\n\nElijah has been venerated as the patron saint of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 26 August 1752, replacing George of Lydda at the request of Bishop Pavao Dragičević. The reasons for the replacement are unclear. It has been suggested that Elijah was chosen because of his importance to all three main religious groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina—Catholics, Muslims and Orthodox Christians. Pope Benedict XIV is said to have approved Bishop Dragičević's request with the remark that a wild nation deserved a wild patron.\n\nElijah is revered as the spiritual Father and traditional founder of the Catholic religious Order of Carmelites. In addition to taking their name from Mt. Carmel where the first hermits of the order established themselves, the Calced Carmelite and Discalced Carmelite traditions pertaining to Elijah focus upon the prophet's withdrawal from public life. The medieval Carmelite Book of the First Monks offers some insight into the heart of the Orders' contemplative vocation and reverence for the prophet.\n\nIn the 17th Century the Bollandist Society, whose declared aim was to search out and classify materials concerning the saints venerated by the Church, and to print what seemed to be the most reliable sources of information entered into controversy with the Carmelites on this point. In writing of St. Albert, Patriarch of Jerusalem and author of the Carmelite rule, the Bollandist Daniel Papebroch stated that the attribution of Carmelite origin to Elijah was insufficiently grounded. The Carmelites reacted strongly. From 1681 to 1698 a series of letters, pamphlets and other documents was issued by each side. The Carmelites were supported by a Spanish tribunal, while the Bollandists had the support of Jean de Launoy and the Sorbonne. In November 1698, Pope Innocent XII ordered an end to the controversy.\n\nSince most Eastern Churches either use Greek as their liturgical language or translated their liturgies from the Greek, \"Elias\" (or its modern iotacized form \"Ilias\") is the form of the prophet's name used among most members of the Eastern Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite.\n\nThe feast day of saint Elias falls on July 20 of the Orthodox liturgical calendar (for those churches which follow the traditional Julian Calendar, July 20 currently falls on August 2 of the modern Gregorian Calendar). This day is a major holiday in Lebanon and is one of a handful of holidays there whose celebration is accompanied by a launching of fireworks by the general public. The full name of St. Elias in Lebanon translates to St. Elias the Living because it is believed that he did not die but rode his fiery chariot to heaven. The reference to the fiery chariot is likely why the Lebanese celebrate this holiday with fireworks.\n\nElias is also commemorated, together with all of the righteous persons of the Old Testament, on the Sunday of the Holy Fathers (the Sunday before the Nativity of the Lord).\n\nThe Apolytikion in the Fourth Tone for St. Elias:\n\nThe incarnate Angel, the Cornerstone of the Prophets, the second Forerunner of the Coming of Christ, the glorious Elias, who from above, sent down to Elisha the grace to dispel sickness and cleanse lepers, abounds therefore in healing for those who honor him.\n\nThe Kontakion in the Second Tone for St. Elias:\n\nO Prophet and foreseer of the great works of God, O greatly renowned Elias, who by your word held back the clouds of rain, intercede for us to the only Loving One.\n\nStarting in the fifth century, Elias is often connected with Helios, the Sun. The two words have very similar pronunciations in post-classical Greek; Elijah rode in his chariot of fire to heaven () just as Helios drove the chariot of the sun across the sky; and the holocaust sacrifice offered by Elijah and burned by fire from heaven () corresponds to the sun warming the earth.\n\nSedulius writes poetically in the fifth century that the \"bright path to glittering heaven\" suits Elias both \"in merits and name\", as changing one letter makes his name \"Helios\"; but he does not identify the two. A homily entitled \"De ascensione Heliae\", misattributed to Chrysostom, claims that poets and painters use the ascension of Elijah as a model for their depictions of the sun, and says that \"Elijah is really Helios\". Saint Patrick appears to conflate Helios and Elias. In modern times, much Greek folklore also connects Elias with the sun.\n\nIn Greece, chapels and monasteries dedicated to Prophet Elias (Προφήτης Ηλίας) are often found on mountaintops, which themselves are often named after him. Since Wachsmuth (1864), the usual explanation for this has been that Elias was identified with Helios, who had mountaintop shrines. But few shrines of Helios were on mountaintops, and sun-worship was subsumed by Apollo-worship by Christian times, and so could not be confused with Elias. The modern folklore is not good evidence for the \"origin\" of the association of the sun, Elias, and mountaintops. Perhaps Elias is simply a \"natural patron of high places\".\n\nThe association of Elias with mountaintops seems to come from a different pagan tradition: Elias took on the attributes and the locales associated with Zeus, especially his associations with mountains and his powers over rain, thunder, lighting, and wind. When Elias prevailed over the priests of Baal, it was on Mount Carmel (), which later became known as Mount St. Elias. When he spent forty days in a cave, it was on Mount Horeb (). When Elias confronted Ahab, he stopped the rains for three years ().\n\nA map of mountain-cults of Zeus shows that most of these sites are now dedicated to Elias, including Mount Olympus, Mount Lykaion, Mount Arachnaion, and Mount Taleton on the mainland, and Mount Kenaion, Mount Oche, and Mount Kynados in the islands. Of these, the only one with a recorded tradition of a Helios cult is Mount Taleton.\n\nElias is associated with pre-Christian lightning gods in many other European traditions.\n\nAmong Albanians, pilgrimages are made to mountaintops to ask for rain during the summer. One such tradition that is gaining popularity is the 2 August pilgrimage to Ljuboten on the Sharr mountains. Muslims refer to this day as \"Aligjyn\" (\"Ali Day\"), and it is believed that Ali becomes Elias at midday.\nAs Elijah was described as ascending into heaven in a fiery chariot, the Christian missionaries who converted Slavic tribes likely found him an ideal analogy for Perun, the supreme Slavic god of storms, thunder and lightning bolts. In many Slavic countries Elijah is known as Elijah the Thunderer (\"Ilija Gromovnik\"), who drives the heavens in a chariot and administers rain and snow, thus actually taking the place of Perun in popular beliefs. Perun is also sometimes conflated with the legendary hero Elijah of Murom. The feast of St. Elias is known as \"Ilinden\" in South Slavic, and was chosen as the day of the Ilinden-Preobrazhenie Uprising in 1903; it is now the holiday of Republic Day in the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nIn Estonian folklore Elijah is considered to be the successor of Ukko, the lightning spirit.\n\nIn Georgian mythology, he replaces Elwa. A Georgian story about Elijah:\n\nOnce Jesus, the prophet Elijah, and St. George were going through Georgia. When they became tired and hungry they stopped to dine. They saw a Georgian shepherd and decided to ask him to feed them. First, Elijah went up to the shepherd and asked him for a sheep. After the shepherd asked his identity Elijah said that, he was the one who sent him rain to get him a good profit from farming. The shepherd became angry at him and told him that he was the one who also sent thunderstorms, which destroyed the farms of poor widows. (After Elijah, Jesus and St. George attempt to get help and eventually succeed).\nElias has other pagan associations: a modern legend about Elias mirrors precisely the legend of Odysseus seeking a place where the locals would not recognize an oar—hence the mountaintops.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints acknowledges Elijah as a prophet. The Church teaches that the Malachi prophecy of the return of Elijah was fulfilled on April 3, 1836, when Elijah visited the prophet and founder of the church, Joseph Smith, along with Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland Temple as a resurrected being. This event is chronicled in . This experience forms the basis for the church's focus on genealogy and family history and belief in the eternal nature of marriage and families.\n\nIn Latter-day Saint theology, the name-title Elias is not always synonymous with Elijah and is often used for people other than the biblical prophet. According to Joseph Smith, \n\nThe spirit of Elias is first, Elijah second, and Messiah last. Elias is a forerunner to prepare the way, and the spirit and power of Elijah is to come after, holding the keys of power, building the Temple to the capstone, placing the seals of the Melchizedek Priesthood upon the house of Israel, and making all things ready; then Messiah comes to His Temple, which is last of all.\n\nPeople to whom the title Elias is applied in Mormonism include Noah, the angel Gabriel (who is considered to be the same person as Noah in Mormon doctrine), Elijah, John the Baptist, John the Apostle, and an unspecified man who was a contemporary of Abraham.\n\nDetractors of Mormonism have often alleged that Smith, in whose time and place the King James Version was the only available English translation of the Bible, simply failed to grasp the fact that the Elijah of the Old Testament and the Elias of the New Testament are the same person. Latter-day Saints deny this and say that the difference they make between the two is deliberate and prophetic. The names Elias and Elijah refer to one who prepares the way for the coming of the Lord. This is applicable to John the Baptist coming to prepare the way for the Lord and His baptism; it also refers to Elijah appearing during the transfiguration to prepare for Jesus by restoring keys of sealing power. Jesus then gave this power to the Twelve saying, \"Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.\" \n\nElijah ( or ; \"Ilyas\" or \"Ilya\") is also mentioned as a prophet in the Qur'an, al-An'am 85. Elijah's narrative in the Qur'an and later Muslim tradition resembles closely that in the Hebrew Bible and Muslim literature records Elijah's primary prophesying as taking place during the reign of Ahab and Jezebel as well as Ahaziah. He is seen by Muslims to be the prophetic predecessor to Elisha. While neither the Bible nor the Qur'an mentions the genealogy of Elijah, some scholars of Islam believe he may have come from the priestly family of the prophet Aaron. Elijah is rarely associated with Islamic eschatology and Islam views Jesus as the Messiah. However, Elijah is expected to come back along with the mysterious figure known as Khidr during the Last Judgment. Elijah's figure has been identified with a number of other prophets and saints, including Idris, which is believed by some scholars to have been another name for Elijah, and Khidr. Islamic legend later developed the figure of Elijah, greatly embellishing upon his attributes, and some apocryphal literature gave Elijah the status of a half-human, half-angel. Elijah also appears in later works of literature, including the \"Hamzanama\".\n\nElijah is mentioned in the Quran, where his preaching is recounted in a concise manner. The Quran narrates that Elijah told his people to come to the worship of God and to leave the worship of Baal, the primary idol of the area. The Quran states, \"Verily Elijah was one of the apostles. When he said to his people: \"Will you not fear God? \"Will ye call upon Ba'al and leave the Best of Creators, God, your and Cherisher and the and Cherisher of your fathers of old?\" As-Saaffat 123–126\n\nThe Quran makes it clear that the majority of Elijah's people denied the prophet and continued to follow idolatry. However, it mentions that a small number of devoted servants of God among them followed Elijah and believed in and worshiped God. The Quran states, \"They denied him (Elijah), and will surely be brought to punishment, Except the sincere and devoted Servants of God (among them). And We left his (memory) for posterity.\" As-Saaffat 127–128\n\nIn the Quran, God praises Elijah in two places:\n\nNumerous commentators, including Abdullah Yusuf Ali, have offered commentary on VI: 85 saying that Elijah, Zechariah, John the Baptist and Jesus were all spiritually connected. Abdullah Yusuf Ali says, \"The third group consists not of men of action, but Preachers of Truth, who led solitary lives. Their epithet is: \"the Righteous.\" They form a connected group round Jesus. Zachariah was the father of John the Baptist, who is referenced as \"Elias, which was for to come\" (Matt 11:14); and Elias is said to have been present and talked to Jesus at the Transfiguration on the Mount (Matt. 17:3).\"\n\nMuslim literature and tradition recounts that Elijah preached to the Kingdom of Israel, ruled over by Ahab and later his son Ahaziah. He is believed to have been a \"prophet of the desert—like John the Baptist\". Elijah is believed to have preached with zeal to Ahab and his wife Jezebel, who according to Muslim tradition was partly responsible for the worship of false idols in this area. Muslims believe that it was because the majority of people refused to listen to Elijah that Elisha had to continue preaching the message of God to Israel after him.\n\nElijah has been the subject of legends and folktales in Muslim culture, usually involving his meeting with Khidr, and in one legend, with Muhammad himself. In Islamic mysticism, Elijah is associated closely with the sage Khidr. One hadith reported that Elijah and Khidr met together every year in Jerusalem to go on the pilgrimage to Mecca. Elijah appears also in the \"Hamzanama\" numerous times, where he is spoken of as being the brother of Khidr as well as one who drank from the Fountain of Youth.\n\nFurther, It is narrated in Kitab al-Kafi that Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq was reciting the prostration of Ilyas (Elijah) in the Syrian language and began to weep. He then translated the supplication in Arabic to a group of visiting scholars: \n<poem>\n\"O Lord, will I find that you punish me although you know of my thirst in the heat of midday? Will I find that you punish me although you know that I rub my face on Earth to worship you? Will I find that you punish me although you know that I give up sins for you? Will I find that you punish me although you know that I stay awake all night just for you?\" To which Allah then inspired to Ilyas, \"Raise your head from the Earth for I will not punish you\" .\n</poem>\n\nAlthough most Muslim scholars believed that Elijah preached in Israel, some early commentators on the Qur'an stated that Elijah was sent to Baalbek, in Lebanon. Modern scholars have rejected this claim, stating that the connection of the city with Elijah would have been made because of the first half of the city's name, that of \"Baal\", which was the deity that Elijah exhorted his people to stop worshiping. Scholars who reject identification of Elijah's town with Baalbek further argue that the town of Baalbek is not mentioned with the narrative of Elijah in either the Qur'an or the Hebrew Bible.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, the Báb, founder of the Bábí Faith, is believed to be the return of Elijah and John the Baptist. Both Elijah and John the Baptist are considered to be Lesser Prophets, whose stations are below that of a Manifestation of God like Jesus Christ, Buddha, Muhammad, the Báb or Bahá'u'lláh. The Báb is buried on Mount Carmel, where Elijah had his confrontation with the prophets of Baal.\n\nThat \"ravens\" fed Elijah by the brook Chorath has been questioned. The Hebrew text at uses the word \"`ōrvīm\", which means \"ravens\", but with a different vocalization might equally mean \"Arabs\". The Septuagint has , \"ravens\", and other traditional translations followed.\n\nAlternatives have been proposed for many years; for example Adam Clarke (d. 1832) treated it as a discussion already of long standing. Objections to the traditional translation are that ravens are ritually unclean (see ) as well as physically dirty; it is difficult to imagine any method of delivery of the food which is not disgusting. The parallelism with the incident that follows, where Elijah is fed by the widow, also suggests a human, if mildly improbable, agent.\n\nProf. John Gray chooses \"Arabs\", saying \"We adopt this reading solely because of its congruity with the sequel, where Elijah is fed by an alien Phoenician woman.\" His translation of the verses in question is: \n\nAnd the word of Jehovah came to Elijah saying, Go hence and turn eastward and hide thyself in the Wadi Chorath east of the Jordan, and it shall be that thou shalt drink of the wadi, and I have commanded the Arabs to feed thee there. And he went and did according to the word of Jehovah and went and dwelt in the Wadi Chorath east of the Jordan. And the Arabs brought him bread in the morning and flesh in the evening and he would drink of the wadi.\n\nIn the Gospel of John, Jesus says: \"And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, \"[even]\" the Son of man which is in heaven.\" (John 3:13)\n\nTraditionally Christianity interprets the \"Son of Man\" as a title of Jesus, but this has never been an article of faith and there are other interpretations. Further interpreting this quote, some Christians believe that Elijah was not assumed into heaven but simply transferred to another assignment either in heaven or with King Jehoram of Judah. The prophets reacted in such a way that makes sense if he was carried away, and not simply straight up ().\n\nThe question of whether Elijah was in heaven or elsewhere on earth depends partly on the view of the letter Jehoram received from Elijah in 2 Chronicles 21 after Elijah had ascended. Some have suggested that the letter was written before Elijah ascended, but only delivered later. The rabbinical Seder Olam explains that the letter was delivered seven years after his ascension. This is also a possible explanation for some variation in manuscripts of Josephus' \"Antiquities of the Jews\" when dealing with this issue. Others have argued that Elijah was only \"caught away\" such as Philip in Acts 8:39 John Lightfoot reasoned that it must have been a different Elijah.\n\nElijah's name typically occurs in Jewish lists of those who have entered heaven alive.\n\nCenturies after his departure the Jewish nation awaits the coming of Elijah to precede the coming of the Messiah. For many Christians this prophecy was fulfilled in the gospels, where he appears during the Transfiguration alongside Moses (). Commentators have said that Moses' appearance represented the law, while Elijah's appearance represented the prophets. \nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believes that Elijah returned on April 3, 1836 in an appearance to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, fulfilling the prophecy in Malachi.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith believes Elijah returned as the biblical prophet John the Baptist and as the Báb who founded the Bábí Faith in 1844.\n\nThe Nation of Islam believes Elijah returned as Elijah Muhammad, black separatist religious leader (who claimed to be a \"messenger\", not a prophet). This is considered less important than their belief that Allah himself showed up in the person of Fard Muhammad, the founder of the group. It differs notably from most beliefs about Elijah, in that his re-appearance is usually the precursor to a greater one's appearance, rather than an afterthought.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8441813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8441813", "title": "Elizabeth Bay House", "text": "Elizabeth Bay House\n\nElizabeth Bay House is a heritage-listed Colonial Regency style house and now a museum and grotto, located at 7 Onslow Avenue in the inner eastern Sydney suburb of Elizabeth Bay in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales, Australia. The design of the house is attributed to John Verge and John Bibb and was built from 1835 to 1839 by James Hume. The grotto and retaining walls were designed by Verge and the carriage drive on Onslow Avenue was designed by Edward Deas Thomson and built from 1832 to 1835 by convict and free artisans under the direction of Verge. The property is owned by Sydney Living Museums, an agency of the Government of New South Wales. Known as \"the finest house in the colony\", Elizabeth Bay House was originally surrounded by a garden, and now situated within a densely populated inner city suburb.\n\nElizabeth Bay House is a superb example of Australian colonial architecture, best known for its central elliptical saloon with domed lantern and geometric staircase, and was listed on the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate and was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nElizabeth Bay had been the site of a fishing village established by Governor Macquarie (1810–21) in for a composite group of Cadigal people - the indigenous inhabitants of the area surrounding Sydney Harbour - under the leadership of Bungaree (d.1830). Elizabeth Bay had been named in honour of Mrs Macquarie. Bungaree's group continued their nomadic life around the harbour foreshores. Sir Thomas Brisbane, Governor 1821-5, designated Elizabeth Bay as the site of an asylum for the insane. A pen sketch by Edward Mason from 1822-3 shows a series of bark huts for the natives' in the locality.\n\nAlexander Macleay (1767-1848), public servant and entomologist, was born at Wick, a fishing village in Ross-shire, Scotland. He moved to London in 1786, marrying Elizabeth Barclay there in 1791. Macleay, who was employed in the civil service (1795-1825) was well known in British and European natural history circles, having amassed by 1805 one of the most significant insect collections in Britain. He was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society of London in 1794 (Natural History Society) commemorating the great Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus, whose \"Species Plantarum\" (1753) became the internationally accepted starting point for all botanical nomenclature (binomial naming of plants by genus and species, based on their sexual reproductive parts) and served as its secretary (1798-1825). He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1809. Botanist Robert Brown, Macleay's close friend and suitor of his eldest daughter Fanny, a competent botanical artist, named the plant genus Macleaya in his honour.\n\nIn enforced retirement from 1817 when his department was abolished at the end of the Napoleonic Wars, Macleay's finances were stretched to support a large family (10 of 17 children survived to adulthood), town and country residences, and his obsessive collecting of insects. When assets had to be sold upon the collapse of his brother's private bank in Wick, in which Alexander was a partner, he began in 1824 to borrow heavily from his eldest son, William.\n\nMacleay accepted the position of NSW Colonial Secretary, arriving in 1826 and moving into the Colonial Secretary's house (fronting Macquarie Place) with his wife Eliza, their six surviving daughters, an extensive library, and an insect collection then \"unparalleled in England\" for its size, range and number of type specimens (first to be named of a species). Three of the four surviving sons came later to NSW, of whom two, William and George - shared their father's natural history interests. (From the early 1820s the spelling Macleay was adopted; descendents of Alexander's brothers retained MacLeay or McLeay).\n\nSoon after his arrival in 1826 he was granted by Governor Darling at Elizabeth Bay, with commanding views of Sydney Harbour. It was usual practice for grants to be made to eminent citizens in the colony but Macleay's grant generated some heated editorials in Sydney's newspapers. It involved the alienation of public land, the former Aboriginal settlement of Elizabeth Town, later earmarked for an asylum.\n\nIn 1826 Macleay set about improving the site, using assigned convict labour. He employed his horticultural expertise, assisted from the late 1820s by gardener Robert Henderson, to establish a private botanic garden with picturesque features of dwarf stone walls, rustic bridges, and winding gravel walks. This was amid the existing native vegetation.\n\nIn May 1831 \"The Sydney Gazette\" enthusiastically reported improvements at Woolloomooloo Hill (Potts Point) and Macleay's neighbouring estate at Elizabeth Bay \"5 years ago the coast immediately eastward of Sydney was a mass of cold and hopeless sterility, which its stunted and unsightly bushes seemed only to render the more palpable; it is now traversed by an elegant carriage road and picturesque walks.\n\nThat these rapid improvements were originated by the proprietor of Elizabeth Bay cannot be doubted. He was the first to show how these hillocks of rock and sand might be rendered tributary to the taste and advantage of civilized man. As to the estate of Elizabeth Bay, no one can form an adequate judgement of the taste, labour and capital that have been bestowed upon it. A spacious garden, filled with almost every variety of vegetable; a trellised vinery; a flower garden, rich in botanical curiosities, refreshed with ponds of pure water and overlooked by fanciful grottoes; a maze of gravel walks winding around the rugged hills in every direction, and affording sometimes an umbrageous solitude, sometimes a sylvan coup d'oeil, and sometimes a bold view of the spreading bays and distant headlands - these are living proofs that its honourable proprietor well deserved the boon, and has well repaid it.\"\n\nAs with the design of the house, the design of the estate appears to have involved a number of people whose respective contributions are not known. Fanny Macleay regarded her father as the mastermind, referring to Elizabeth Bay as \"our Tillbuster the second\", a reference to the Macleay family's country estate in Godstone, Surrey, which Alexander had improved in 1817. In September 1826 she promised her brother a plan of the recently acquired grant \"when Papa has decided where our house is to be and the garden etc\". Although Nurseryman Thomas Shepherd had practised as a landscape gardener many years previously in England and his 1835 (public) lecture (in Sydney) included suggestions for the further improvement of the Elizabeth Bay estate, he does not claim credit for involvement, however informal, in its design. It may be that Macleay considered his views old-fashioned.\n\nIn 1825 Robert Henderson had been recruited at the Cape of Good Hope by Alexander Macleay. Henderson's obituary records that he superintended the laying out of the gardens of Elizabeth Bay and Brownlow Hill. In February 1829 Fanny wrote \"we have now some beautiful walks thro' the bush. Mr (Edward) Deas-Thompson who is possessed of an infinity of good taste is the Engineer and takes an astonishing degree of interest in the improvement of the place.\"\n\nJohn Verge's office ledger contains many references to the design of garden structures, including gates and piers and copings and \"scroll ends\" for garden walls. The entries are dated between April and November 1833. A design for a bathing house (not built) dated 1834 and initialled \"R.R.\", may be attributed to the architect and surveyor, Robert Russell (1808-1900) who arrived in Sydney in that year.\n\nMacleay's approach to the Australian bush was in contrast with that of the majority of colonists, who customarily cleared it and started afresh. Nurseryman Thomas Shepherd wished others to emulate this:\nThe bush was planted with specimen orchids and ferns to enhance its botanical interest, which could be enjoyed in the course of a \"wood walk\". Two surviving notebooks list the sources of plants for the garden and illustrate a comprehensive approach to plant collecting, similar in their approach to entomology. The plant and seed books contain entries for purchases from nurserymen Messr.s Loddiges of Hackney, London, and exchanges with William Macarthur of Camden Park. They also record the plants contributed by visitors to the estate and by William Sharp Macleay's natural history collectors in India.\n\nAlexander Macleay had a great passion for bulbous plants, particularly those from the Cape of Good Hope. The explorer Charles Sturt, contributed many bulbs collected on his journey to South Australia in 1838, having been presented with four bulbs of Calostemma album from the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew during his visit to Elizabeth Bay in February 1831. Bulbs featured in the large collection of plants which William Sharp Macleay brought with him to Australia in 1839. 88 varieties of bulbs were forwarded to him in 1839-40 by his scientific correspondent, Dr Nathaniel Wallich, Superintendent of the botanical garden in Calcutta.\n\nMacleay's garden was also noted for its fruit trees. In 1835, Charles Von Hugel noted \"pawpaw, guava and many plants from India were flourishing\". Georgianna Lowe (of Bronte House) described the shrubbery and adjacent garden, in 1842-3 commenting on the wealth of fruit trees and other plants assimilated into a Sydney garden:\n\"Mr Macleay took us through the grounds; they were along the side of the water. In this garden are the plants of every climate - flowers and trees from Rio, the West Indies, the East Indies, China and even England. And unless you could see them, you would not believe how beautiful the roses are here. The orange trees, lemons, citrons, guavas are immense, and the pomegranate is now in full flower. Mr Macleay also has an immense collection from New Zealand.\"\n\nMany visitors commented on Macleay's achievement in creating a garden in Sydney conditions. Georgianna Lowe described \"some drawbacks to this lovely garden: it is too dry, and the plants grow out of a white, sandy soil. I must admit a few English showers would improve it.\"\n\nMacleay received the Yulan magnolia (\"M. denudata\"), a small tree from south-eastern China, at Elizabeth Bay, in 1836.\n\nPlans for the villa were in hand from 1832 but construction did not commence until 1835. Elizabeth Bay House was built between 1835 and 1839 by the accomplished architect and builder John Verge. It is believed that Verge worked from plans acquired from a British source prior to 1832. Macleay, in addition to his post, was an entomologist of standing in the world of natural science and had been secretary (1798-1825) of the prestigious Linnean Society in London. He brought with him his huge insect collection, a library of 4000 works and a wide knowledge of horticulture and botany.\n\nThe internal design of the house was loosely modelled on Henry Hollands Carlton House built for the Prince Regent in London. Macleay could not afford the intended encircling colonnade. The house's architectural significance rests largely with its interior, owing to its state of incompletion. A planned encircling colonnade was not built. It is possible that Macleay's son William Sharp, after his examination of his father's finances upon joining the family in Sydney in 1839, called for a halt to the building of the house.\n\nWhen the house was finished in 1839 it was occupied by Alexander, his wife Eliza, their unmarried daughter Kennethina, unmarried son William Sharp, the Macleay's nephews William and John and two Onslow grandchildren. Their five other daughters had married. At the same time wool prices dropped and transportation ended in 1840 and the colony was plunged into depression. Macleay was already in debt. The depression, these debts, the capital he had outlaid on the house and garden, the expenses of his various country properties and the loss of his large official salary brought about by early retirement meant that by the early 1840s he was in financial difficulties.\n\nWilliam Sharp Macleay in 1839 was in London and ordered furnishings for the drawing room of Elizabeth Bay House. Six years later in 1845 in the midst of a colonial financial crisis, he sold them to the newly completed Government House, Sydney, where three of the original rosewood veneer tables still have pride of place. The furnishings included pelmets with gilt \"cornices\" (curtain pelmets in this case, with Louis XIV- revival scrolls and a Greek-Revival egg and dart cresting) which were transferred to Government House also.\n\nRecent research demonstrates that the main axis of the house is perfectly oriented and aligned to the position of the sunrise at the winter solstice or shortest day of the year - so that the rising sun bisects the house, running through the front door, out the rear door and hitting the sandstone cliff face at the rear of the house. The architraves and stone flooring along the central corridor are evenly illuminated, lasting only for a minute. For over 2 weeks either side of the winter solstice the effect may be observed with varying luminance and duration, as the sun's elevation and position on the horizon changes. Though no documents are known to discuss this feature, it is not likely to be an accident.\n\nThe garden became known internationally through the letters and published accounts of local naturalists and visiting scientific expeditions:\n\nBotanist Joseph Hooker (Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, 1865–85) described the garden in 1841 as \"a botanist's paradise My surprise was unbounded at the natural beauties of the spot, the inimitable taste with which the grounds were laid out and the number and rarity of the plants which were collected together.\" Macleay corresponded with and sent indigenous plant specimens to Kew, donated exotic plants to the Sydney Botanic Gardens, supplied trees to nurseryman Thomas Shepherd, exchanged plants with William Macarthur at Camden Park, encouraged local naturalists, and promoted exploration. As a member of numerous public and charitable committees, he exerted considerable influence in the establishment of the Australian Museum, the Australian Subscription Library, and more particularly on policy at the Botanic Gardens.\n\nMacleay, who had served diligently as Colonial Secretary, was ousted from office by Governor Bourke in 1837. The loss of salary contributed to his financial problems: British debts were unpaid; mortgages that had funded the lavish expenditure on both Elizabeth Bay House and Brownlow Hill, his country house near Camden, were due: pastoral ventures failed in the 1840s depression.\n\nAn attempt was made to subdivide the land in 1841 but the blocks did not sell. While others were forced to declare bankruptcy, Macleay was saved by his eldest son William Sharp Macleay, also Alexander Macleay's largest creditor. In 1845 W. S. Macleay insisted his family move out of the house and then took it over the payment of the debts himself. Macleay's library and the drawing room furniture were sold to pay creditors. William Sharp Macleay (1792-1865), public servant, scholar and naturalist, and eldest son, inherited his father's insect collection, and stayed alone at the house until his death in 1865. Alexander and Eliza moved, bitterly, to Brownlow Hill. He was elected Speaker of the Legislative Council (1843–46). Injured in a carriage accident in 1846, and still suffering the effects, he died at Tivoli, Rose Bay, the home of one of his daughters. George Macleay (1809-1891) pastoralist and explorer and third surviving son, inherited his father's debts.\n\nTwo contrasting personalities, William, a Cambridge classical scholar, controversial pre-Darwinian theorist, author and contributor to leading scientific journals, and recluse: and George, a pragmatist, and subsequently a peripatetic bon vivant; the brothers, individually and jointly, contributed to NSW's scientific and horticultural advancement. Both were involved with the Botanic Gardens, Australian Museum and, beginning with their father, maintained an unbroken connection with the Linnean Society of London (1794-1891).\n\nWilliam arrived in 1839 in NSW with important collections of insects from South America (on which he published) and from Cuba where he was posted by the British Government (1825–36), as well as a large collection of plants. At Elizabeth Bay, two notebooks of plants and seeds exchanged, imported or desired for its garden, which he compiled with his father, reflect the extent of their horticultural pursuits and provide vital records of this outstanding colonial garden. William was a corresponding member of the Royal Botanic Society of London. During his residency at Elizabeth Bay - with the family from 1839 and alone from 1845 - the house continued as a favoured location for local and visiting scientists and Sydney's intellectual circle. William Sharp Macleay died unmarried, leaving the estate to George and the insect collection to his cousin William John Macleay.\n\nVisiting esteemed English nurseryman John Gould Veitch describes in an 1864 journal entry, Elizabeth Bay House's garden as one of \"few private gardens in Sydney where gardening is carried on with any spirit. Those of Mr Thomas Mort, of Darling Point, the late Mr William Macleay of Elizabeth Bay and Sir Daniel Cooper of Rose Bay, formerly contained good collections of native and imported plants, but now they are no longer kept up.\".\n\nAfter William Sharp's death in 1865 George Macleay inherited the estate (he had moved to England after 1859, when the trustees had been able to settle the estate. A keen zoologist, George had donated specimens to his brother and to the Australian Museum; he presented the papers of his father and his brother William Sharp to the Linnean Society of London and through Charles Nicholson, Greek statuary to the University of Sydney. George progressively subdivided the estate and sold leaseholds of a substantial portion and leased the house to his cousin William John Macleay and his wife Susan.\n\nWilliam John (1820-1891) pastoralist, politician, patron of science, and nephew of Alexander, was born in Wick, came to NSW with his cousin William Sharp Macleay in 1839, and became a squatter with extensive pastoral runs in the Murrumbidgee whose profits would ultimately fund the scientific interests engendered by his uncle and cousins. He was a member of the Legislative Assembly (1856–74), a trustee of the Australian Museum (1861–77), and in 1862 helped found the Entomological Society of NSW. In 1865 he inherited the insect collections of Alexander and W. S. Macleay and leased Elizabeth Bay House, living there with his wife Susan. William John, like the Macleays who had lived in the house before him, was an ardent collector, sponsoring collecting expeditions including that of the \"Chevert\" to New Guinea in 1875, and broadening the collection from insects and marine invertebrates to encompass all branches of the natural sciences (such as birds and reptiles). Encouraging the study of botany, he was the first president of the Linnean Society of NSW (1874). The Linnean Society of NSW presented the Macleay's early plant and seed books to the Mitchell Library, State Library of NSW.\n\nBy 1875 the Macleay family collections at the house were now so large that William John had a curator George Masters appointed to look after the collection. In 1889 the collections were presented to the Macleay Museum at the University of Sydney, where the government built a museum (1886–88) to which the collections were transferred, together with some original collector's cabinets, library, Macleay papers, and an endowment for a curator (this remains as the Macleay Museum). W. J. Macleay was knighted in 1889 and died in 1891, leaving substantial bequests to various institutions including the University of Sydney and the Linnean Society of NSW. His wife stayed there until her death in 1903. The couple had no children. After the death of George Macleay in 1891, under the terms of William Sharp Macleay's will, the house was passed from their nephew Arthur Alexander Walton Onslow who had died, to his eldest son James Macarthur Onslow of Camden Park. By this time the estate had shrunk to through successive subdivisions. Members of the Macleay family occupied Elizabeth Bay House until 1903.\n\nIn 1927 the remainder of the land around the house was sold. In this final division the kitchen wing at the rear of the house was demolished to allow an access road for allotments behind the house.\nBy 1934 the house and eleven lots remained unsold due to the depression. Artists squatted in the house until 1935 when it was purchased, renovated and refurbished as a reception house. Five years later the house was again altered to accommodate fifteen flats.\n\nFrom 1948-50 Sydney City Council using landscape architect Ilmar Berzins created the Arthur MacElhone Reserve on what had been Elizabeth Bay House's famous lawn (three lots, unsold in the 1927 subdivision). Macleay had created a broadly elliptical levelled lawn at considerable cost. It was noted for containing every Cape bulb known in the colony in the 1840s. With the 1927 subdivision creating a new road of Onslow Avenue this lawn and the house's front address to it were bisected and a new sandstone retaining wall was made edging Onslow Avenue in front of the house and on its east and west. To the north-east a new road of Billyard Avenue also dating from 1927 edged the reserve.\n\nThe Arthur MacElhone Reserve commemorates a City Councillor for this Fitzroy Ward. Berzins' design incorporated Macleay's curving retaining wall and protruding sandstone ledges or benches and a grotto facing onto the footpath on Billyard Avenue below. Some of the rich plant collection in this reserve is appropriate, given its proximity to Elizabeth Bay House and the range and richness of that former estate's shrubberies and gardens. Berzins is also known for designing Hyde Park, Sydney's Sandringham Gardens near the north-west corner of Park & College Streets in 1951 and Duntryleague Golf Club course, Orange.\n\nIn 1961 the National Trust of Australia (NSW) started to list and publicise important historic places. Elizabeth Bay House was one of the first sixty places named.\n\nArchitect John Fisher (early member of the Institute of Architects, Cumberland County Council Historic Buildings Committee and on the first Council of the National Trust of Australia (NSW) Board after its reformation in 1960) was commissioned by the State Planning Authority to restore Elizabeth Bay House, which led to the formation of the Historic Houses Trust of NSW in 1980. A Friends of Elizabeth Bay House group formed well before the formation of the Historic Houses Trust of NSW.\n\nIn 1963 the Cumberland County Council purchased Elizabeth Bay House and essential repairs were carried out.\n\nThe State Planning Authority assumed control in 1972 and it was decided to restore the house as an official residence for the Lord Mayor of Sydney. A change of government signalled a change in policy and a decision that the house become a public museum. Architects Fisher Lucas supervised the restoration of the house which began in 1977. In 1980 it was put in the care of a Trust before coming under ownership of the Historic Houses Trust of NSW in 1981. It was one of the first properties acquired by the Historic Houses Trust of NSW. Since then the Friends of Elizabeth Bay House and subsequent Friends of the Historic Houses Trust have raised funds and held events in support of the house's interpretation and enjoyement. These funds included new curtains and pelmets being installed in the drawing room ($25,000) and furnishing a maid's room ($10,000).\n\nThe house was refurnished in the style of 1839–45, the interiors reflecting the lifestyle of the Macleays and presenting an evocative picture of early 19th century Sydney life. Largely in the Greek Revival style with elements of the Louis revival, the house's interiors have been recreated based on several inventories, notably an 1845 record of the house's contents and a list of furniture sold to the newly completed Government House, plus pieces known to have originated at the house that is now located at Camden Park or Brownlow Hill (originally the Macleays' country property near Camden, NSW). The large library contains several insect cases and a desk originally owned by Macleay, on loan from the Macleay Museum at Sydney University. Wall colours have been determined from paint scrapes that revealed the original colour schemes. The house also contains a collection of significant early Australian furniture from Sydney and Tasmania.\n\nA nearby grotto, with accompanying stone walls and steps, plus several trees, are all that remain of the original extensive garden, which contained Macleay's considerable native and exotic plant collection, an orchard and kitchen garden. A hand-written notebook of \"Plants received at Elizabeth Bay\" in the collection of the Mitchell Library, is indicative of the original collection.\n\nIn 2010–11, the house was used as the set for the music video of Jessica Mauboy's single \"What Happened to Us\" featuring Jay Sean. The song was one of Mauboy's biggest hits at the time. Elizabeth Bay House is available for hire as a reception venue and is often used for wedding receptions.\n\nElizabeth Bay House is a Greek Revival villa with a centralised Palladian layout with two levels, two unconnected cellar wings beneath the house and attic rooms under the roof. It is built of soft Sydney sandstone with a protective coat of sand paint. There is a square entrance vestibule leading into an oval, domed saloon around which a cantilevered stair rises to an arcaded gallery. The Australian Cedar joinery is finely moulded and finished simply with wax polish. The timber floors throughout are Australian Blackbutt. There is an original, large brass door lock on the front door.\n\nThe house's facade is severe, owing to its incomplete nature: like many colonial houses begun in the late 1830s, the house is unfinished, the victim of Macleay's growing financial distress and the severe economic depression of the 1840s. It was originally intended to have an encircling single-storey Doric colonnade (included in several views by Conrad Martens, and akin to the colonnade at Vineyard, designed by Verge for Hannibal Hawkins Macarthur); the small portico was only added in the early 20th century.\n\nThe square entrance hall preludes the soaring space of the oval domed saloon. The entablatures and fluted pilasters of the doorways, the tapering Grecian architraves and panelled reveal shutters of the windows and the plaster cornice and frieze decorated with laurel wreaths. The stairway is of Marulan sandstone and built into the wall, resting on the tread underneath. The cast iron banisters are painted in imitation bronze. Eleven carved stone brackets support the first floor balcony. The portico is a light, single storeyed structure of iron and wood. Verge's attention to symmetry can be seen in the blind windows constructed on the walls of both sides of the house.\n\nRecent research demonstrates that the house is perfectly oriented and aligned to the position of the sunrise at the winter solstice or shortest day of the year - so that the rising sun bisects the house, running through the front door, out the rear door and hitting the sandstone cliff face at the rear of the house. The architraves and stone flooring along the central corridor are evenly illuminated, lasting only for a minute. For over two weeks either side of the winter solstice the effect may be observed with varying luminance and duration, as the sun's elevation and position on the horizon changes.\n\nPelmets with gilt \"cornices\" (curtain pelmets in this case, with Louis XIV- revival scrolls and a Greek-Revival egg and dart cresting) have been recreated for the drawing room, based on 1839 original pelmets ordered in London by William Sharp Macleay. In 1845 Macleay sold these to the newly completed Government House, Sydney where three of the original drawing room furnishings, being rosewood veneer tables, still have pride of place.\n\nA rear service wing (since demolished) contained a kitchen, laundry and servants' accommodation, and a large stables (also demolished) was sited elsewhere on the estate. A design for a proposed bathing pavilion imitated the Tower of the Winds in Athens. The pavilion was intended for the extremity of nearby Macleay Point, facing Rushcutters Bay and which was poetically named Cape Sunium after the peninsula east of Athens with its picturesque ruined temple.\n\nThe designer of the house is uncertain, with recent research suggesting that the accomplished colonial architect John Verge (1788–1861) was the main designer, but that he was presented with an imported scheme that he modified for Macleay. The fine detailing demonstrates the role of Verge's partner John Bibb.\n\nAs at 22 September 1997, the physical condition was good. Elizabeth Bay House possesses a high level of intactness, including a very percentage of original plaster finishes and joinery.\n\nThe following modifications to the site include:\n\nAs at 1 July 2005, Elizabeth Bay House is one of the most sophisticated works of architecture of the early 19th century in New South Wales, once known as \"the finest house in the colony\". Elizabeth Bay House's incomplete state reflects the 1840s depression which devastated a class of prominent colonial civil servants, pastoralists and merchants. The house is significant for its association with the history of the intellectual life of NSW in the areas of scientific (natural history, particularly entomology, botany) and aesthetic endeavour through its association with three generations of Macleay family.\n\nThe layout of the former Elizabeth Bay estate provided the structure of the modern suburb Elizabeth Bay. Its subdivision reflected the fate of 19th century villas in the inner eastern suburbs of Sydney. The siting of Elizabeth Bay House and surviving elements of Elizabeth Bay Estate provide rare examples of sophisticated Landscape design in early 19th century NSW. In its heyday the garden was known internationally through the letters and published accounts of local naturalists and visiting scientific expeditions, as a fine private botanic garden with picturesque features of dwarf stone walls, rustic bridges, and winding gravel walks, and a fine plant collection of choice and rare species, particularly bulbs.\n\nThe house has long been significant to the conservation movement in Australia. This is indicated by proposals to refurbish the house as a museum for the 1938 sesquicentenary of white settlement, Professor Leslie Wilkinson's ownership share in Elizabeth Bay Estates Limited (1926-1935), the acquisition of the property by the Cumberland County Council in 1963 for its historic significance and the 1972-76 restoration by Clive Lucas, one of the first modern, scholarly conservations in Australia.\n\nElizabeth Bay House was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Bay House and the estate are significant for their association with the history of intellectual life in NSW and their association with three generations of Macleay owners as well as members of the extended Macleay family. The house's association with Alexander Macleay reflects the exploration and settlement of Australia concurrently with the extraordinary growth in scholarly interest in the natural sciences at the end of the 18th century. Elizabeth Bay House and its garden were visited by prominent Australian, British, American and European scientists and intellectuals throughout most of the 19th century, being a focus for Australia's role in an international scientific community. The Macleay family and Macleay family collections provided key endowments for the Australian Museum, the Macleay Museum at Sydney University and the Linnean Society of NSW.\n\nThe estate is the location of the Aboriginal settlement of Elizabeth Town, established by Governor Macquarie and under the leadership of Bungaree and is a significant Aboriginal-European contact site. Physical evidence of this is extant in the form of a midden behind blocks of flats between Onslow Avenue and Billyard Avenue. Elizabeth Bay House has representative associations with John Verge, the most fashionable architect in NSW during the 1830s and the artist Conrad Martens who executed views of the house and other commissions for members of the extended Macleay family. The house has associations with NSW high Victorian architect, George Allen Mansfield, who designed the portico, architect C. C. Phillips who provided designs for the conversion of the house into flats in the 1940s and conservation architect Clive Lucas who supervised the restoration and adaption of the house in 1972-76.\n\nThe house has associations with the NSW Jewish community as it was the home of George Michaelis and his family, one of a number of prominent Jewish families which resided in villas in the vicinity of Elizabeth Bay, which was noted as within walking distance of the Great Synagogue. Elizabeth Bay has rare associations with the history of the visual arts in NSW. Between 1927 and 1935 a colony of artists squatted in the house and during 1940-41 after the conversion of the house to flats, the artist Donald Friend lived in the Morning Room flat. Friend was a resident of the house after it was vacated by the Macleay family and converted into residential flats.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Bay House is one of the finest domestic buildings erected in Australia in the early 19th century. The Saloon is arguably the finest interior in 19th century Australian architecture. The quality of the Greek Revival styling of the house marks a transition in John Verge's career from relatively restrained commissions such as \"Lyndhurst\", \"Glebe\", to more sophisticated designs such as Camden Park. The Greek Revival joinery is particularly fine. The siting of Elizabeth Bay House and surviving elements of Elizabeth Bay Estate provide rare examples of sophisticated Landscape design in early 19th century NSW. The estate, possibly laid out with advice from Landscape gardener Thomas Shepherd adapted design principles from the English 18th century Landscape movement to a Sydney harbourside setting with the retention of indigenous trees. Elizabeth Bay House's relationship with the villas \"Tusculum\" and \"Rockwall\", Potts Point provides a rare key precedent for town planning in Australia. The 1826 grant of Elizabeth Bay House estate to Alexander Macleay was followed by the granting of a series of allotments along Macleay Street Potts Point to the colony's principal civil servants and one respectable merchant, under a series of villa conditions, which specified the quality and elements of the design of these houses. It is believed that both Alexander Macleay and Mrs Darling, wife of the Governor, took a key role in establishing the parameters for this development of Sydney's first suburb.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nElizabeth Bay House through its landmark siting and aesthetic qualities is held in great esteem by the residents of Elizabeth Bay and a wider eastern suburbs community. A broad community awareness of the location of the suburb on the subdivided Elizabeth Bay House estate is re-inforced by the survival of the drive/road network, elements of the terraced garden, late 19th century villas and early 20th century flats which followed on from these subdivisions. Elizabeth Bay House is held in esteem by a large number of former residents, the Jewish community and visual arts community in NSW. Elizabeth Bay House is held in great esteem by a broad heritage community in NSW.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Bay House, while not an intact historic interior, possesses key areas of intact historic finishes and significant evidence of finishes in most rooms which allows its interpretation as a significant early NSW domestic interior. Significant elements of the early 19th century furnishing and Macleay collections survive in the collection of Government House, Sydney, and the Macleay Museum. A myriad of references to domestic furnishing and other aspects of Macleay life at Elizabeth Bay House has been collated and forms the basis of the present interpretation of the Macleay occupancy of Elizabeth Bay House during the period 1839-1845. Elizabeth Bay House provides a key example for the study of architectural patronage, domestic design and its sources in NSW. The attribution of the complete design to John Verge remains inconclusive, with Macleay's role as a client and possible unidentifiable British architect, British architectural pattern book sources and the work of James Hume and John Bibb requiring further research. Elizabeth Bay House has had a significant, albeit limited, impact on the architecture of NSW and the appreciation of colonial buildings through the developing conservation movement. Further research should reveal examples of buildings influenced by the house. Those already identified include \"Aberglasslyn\", \"Vineyard\" and \"Engehurst\". The house has a long standing association with the NSW arts community. Between 1927 and 1972 the house was the home of a number of artists, including Justin O'Brien and Donald Friend. Research should establish a more complete record of Elizabeth Bay House's association with the arts community and the house's effect on the creative work of these individuals.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Bay House is rare as one of the most sophisticated essays in the Greek Revival style favoured by John Verge.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Bay House is a rare superlative example of a representative class of Greek Revival villas constructed by New South Wales' most fashionable architect, John Verge, for prominent colonial civil servants, pastoralists and merchants.\n\nAs at 22 September 2003, the grotto and associated stairs, balustrade and retaining walls are ornamental structures created between 1832 and 1835 to embellish the then garden of Elizabeth Bay House, built between 1835 and 1839 by Alexander Macleay (1767-1848), Colonial Secretary of New South Wales (1826-1837). They are surviving remnants of arguably the most sophisticated landscape design of the 1820s and 1830s in New South Wales, which adapted late 18th Century English Landscape and Picturesque Movement ideals (as interpreted by the early 19th century Gardenesque Movement) for the Sydney Harbour topography.\n\nThe siting of Elizabeth Bay House and the layout of its drives, garden terraces and grottoes was carefully planned to maximise vistas and the dramatic Sydney Harbour topography. The design of the estate employed contrasts between the Greek Revival mansion (Elizabeth Bay House) and its formal placement within a broader Sydney Harbour landscape with the picturesque design and siting of outbuildings and garden structures. These included the demolished spired stables (c.1828, designer unknown), a gardener's cottage (1827), rustic bridge and pond (c.1832) and the extant grottoes, retaining walls and stairs. Architect, John Verge (1788-1862) is believed to have been responsible for the design of the grotto and retaining walls. The Elizabeth Bay estate inspired artistic responses to the landscape, particularly by painter, Conrad Martens (1801-1878).\n\nThe Elizabeth Bay House garden terrace walls have local significance as they formed property boundaries following subdivision of 1882 and 1927. The grotto and rustic bridge became garden features of villas built following the 1882 subdivision.\n\nThe grotto and retaining walls was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17850735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17850735", "title": "Empire HealthChoice Assurance, Inc. v. McVeigh", "text": "Empire HealthChoice Assurance, Inc. v. McVeigh\n\nEmpire HealthChoice Assurance, Inc. v. McVeigh, 547 U.S. 677 (2006), is a United States Supreme Court case.\n\nEmpire Healthchoice Assurance, Inc. was a health insurance company that sued the estate of a deceased federal employee who received $157,000 in insurance benefits as the result of an injury. The wife of this federal employee had won $3.2 million in a separate lawsuit from those whom she claimed had caused her husband's injuries. Empire Healthchoice Assurance sued her for reimbursement of the benefits paid to him on the grounds that a provision in the federal insurance plan required paid benefits to be reimbursed when the beneficiary is compensated for an injury by a third party. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in an opinion by Sonia Sotomayor, ruled against the health insurance company. The Supreme Court upheld the Court of Appeals' ruling in a 5-4 opinion. Justices Breyer, Kennedy, Souter, and Alito dissented.\n"}
{"id": "559212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559212", "title": "Entrez", "text": "Entrez\n\nThe Entrez (pronounced \"ɒnˈtreɪ\") Global Query Cross-Database Search System is a federated search engine, or web portal that allows users to search many discrete health sciences databases at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) website. The NCBI is a part of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), which is itself a department of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which in turn is a part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The name \"Entrez\" (a greeting meaning \"Come in!\" in French) was chosen to reflect the spirit of welcoming the public to search the content available from the NLM.\n\nEntrez Global Query is an integrated search and retrieval system that provides access to all databases simultaneously with a single query string and user interface. Entrez can efficiently retrieve related sequences, structures, and references. The Entrez system can provide views of gene and protein sequences and chromosome maps. Some textbooks are also available online through the Entrez system.\n\nThe Entrez front page provides, by default, access to the global query. All databases indexed by Entrez can be searched via a single query string, supporting boolean operators and search term tags to limit parts of the search statement to particular fields. This returns a unified results page, that shows the number of hits for the search in each of the databases, which are also links to actual search results for that particular database.\n\nEntrez also provides a similar interface for searching each particular database and for refining search results. The Limits feature allows the user to narrow a search a web forms interface. The History feature gives a numbered list of recently performed queries. Results of previous queries can be referred to by number and combined via boolean operators. Search results can be saved temporarily in a Clipboard. Users with a MyNCBI account can save queries indefinitely and also choose to have updates with new search results e-mailed for saved queries of most databases. It is widely used in the field of biotechnology as a reference tool for students and professionals alike.\n\nEntrez searches the following databases:\n\n\nIn addition to using the search engine forms to query the data in Entrez, NCBI provides the Entrez Programming Utilities (eUtils) for more direct access to query results. The eUtils are accessed by posting specially formed URLs to the NCBI server, and parsing the XML response. There was also an eUtils SOAP interface which was terminated on July 2015.\n\nIn 1991, Entrez was introduced in CD form. In 1993, a client-server version of the software provided connectivity with the internet. In 1994, NCBI established a website, and Entrez was a part of this initial release. In 2001, Entrez bookshelf was released and in 2003, the Entrez Gene database was developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "209815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209815", "title": "HMS Belfast (C35)", "text": "HMS Belfast (C35)\n\nHMS \"Belfast\" is a Town-class light cruiser that was built for the Royal Navy. She is now permanently moored as a museum ship on the River Thames in London and is operated by the Imperial War Museum.\n\nConstruction of \"Belfast\", the first ship in the Royal Navy to be named after the capital city of Northern Ireland and one of ten Town-class cruisers, began in December 1936. She was launched on St Patrick's Day 1938. Commissioned in early August 1939 shortly before the outbreak of the Second World War, \"Belfast\" was initially part of the British naval blockade against Germany. In November 1939, \"Belfast\" struck a German mine and spent more than two years undergoing extensive repairs. \"Belfast\" returned to action in November 1942 with improved firepower, radar equipment, and armour. \"Belfast\" saw action escorting Arctic convoys to the Soviet Union during 1943 and in December 1943 played an important role in the Battle of North Cape, assisting in the destruction of the German warship . In June 1944, \"Belfast\" took part in Operation \"Overlord\" supporting the Normandy landings. In June 1945, \"Belfast\" was redeployed to the Far East to join the British Pacific Fleet, arriving shortly before the end of the Second World War. \"Belfast\" saw further combat action in during the Korean War and underwent an extensive modernisation between 1956 and 1959. A number of further overseas commissions followed before \"Belfast\" entered reserve in 1963.\n\nIn 1967, efforts were initiated to avert \"Belfast\" expected scrapping and to preserve her as a museum ship. A joint committee of the Imperial War Museum, the National Maritime Museum, and the Ministry of Defence were established and then reported in June 1968 that preservation was practical. In 1971, the government decided against preservation, prompting the formation of the private HMS \"Belfast\" Trust to campaign for her preservation. The efforts of the Trust were successful, and the government transferred the ship to the Trust in July 1971. Brought to London, she was moored on the River Thames near Tower Bridge in the Pool of London. Opened to the public in October 1971, \"Belfast\" became a branch of the Imperial War Museum in 1978. A popular tourist attraction, \"Belfast\" receives over a quarter of a million visitors per year. As a branch of a national museum and part of the National Historic Fleet, \"Belfast\" is supported by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, admissions income, and the museum's commercial activities.\n\n\"Belfast\" is a cruiser of the third Town class. The Town class had originated in 1933 as the Admiralty's response to the Imperial Japanese Navy's , an -ton cruiser mounting fifteen guns with a top speed exceeding . The Admiralty's requirement called for a 9,000-ton cruiser, sufficiently armoured to withstand a direct hit from an shell, capable of and mounting twelve 6-inch guns. Seaplanes carried aboard would enable shipping lanes to be patrolled over a wide area, and the class was also to be capable of its own anti-aircraft defence. Under the Director of Naval Construction the new design evolved during 1933. The lead ship of the new class, the 9,100-ton , and her sister , were ordered under the 1933 estimates. Three more cruisers were built to this design, with a further three ships built to a slightly larger 9,400-ton design in 1935–36. By 1935, however, the Admiralty was keen to improve the firepower of these cruisers to match the firepower of the Japanese \"Mogami\" and American s; both were armed with fifteen 6-inch guns. The Admiralty rejected a design featuring five triple turrets as impractical, while an alternative design fitting four quadruple turrets was rejected as an effective quadruple turret could not be developed. In May 1936 the Admiralty decided to fit triple turrets, whose improved design would permit an increase in deck armour. This modified design became the 10,000-ton \"Edinburgh\" subclass, named after \"Belfast\"s sister ship . \"Belfast\" was ordered from Harland and Wolff on 21 September 1936, and her keel laid on 10 December 1936. Her expected cost was £2,141,514; of which the guns cost £75,000 and the aircraft (two Supermarine Walruses) £66,500. She was launched on Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March 1938, by Anne Chamberlain, the wife of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain. The launch was filmed by Pathe News. From March to August 1939, \"Belfast\" was fitted out and underwent sea trials.\n\nWhen completed, \"Belfast\" had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . Her standard displacement during her sea trials was . She was propelled by four three-drum oil-fired Admiralty water-tube boilers, turning Parsons geared steam turbines, driving four propeller shafts. She was capable of and carried of fuel oil. This gave her a maximum range of at .\n\n\"Belfast\"s main armament comprised twelve Mk XXIII 6-inch guns in four triple turrets. With a rate of fire of up to eight rounds per gun per minute, her main battery was capable of a total maximum rate of fire of 96 rounds per minute. Her secondary armament comprised twelve 4-inch guns in six twin mounts. Her initial close-range anti-aircraft armament was sixteen 2-pounder \"pom-pom\" guns in two eight-barrel mountings, and two quadruple Vickers .50 machine guns. She also mounted six Mk IV 21-inch torpedo tubes in two triple mounts, and fifteen Mk VII depth charges.\n\n\"Belfast\" was protected by a main armour belt, with deck armour of over her magazines, and over her machinery spaces. Her six-inch turrets were protected by up to of armour.\n\n\"Belfast\"s aviation capability was provided by two catapult-launched Supermarine Walrus amphibious biplanes. These could be launched from a D1H catapult mounted aft of the forward superstructure, and recovered from the water by two cranes mounted on either side of the forward funnel. The aircraft, operated by the Fleet Air Arm's HMS \"Belfast\" Flight of 700 Naval Air Squadron, were stowed in two hangars in the forward superstructure.\n\n\"Belfast\" sailed for Portsmouth on 3 August 1939, and was commissioned on 5 August 1939, less than a month before the outbreak of the Second World War. Her first captain was Captain G A Scott with a crew of 761, and her first assignment was to the Home Fleet's 2nd Cruiser Squadron. On 14 August, \"Belfast\" took part in her first exercise, Operation \"Hipper\", in which she played the role of a German commerce raider attempting to escape into the Atlantic. By navigating the hazardous Pentland Firth, \"Belfast\" successfully evaded the Home Fleet.\n\nOn 31 August 1939 \"Belfast\" was transferred to the 18th Cruiser Squadron. Based at Scapa Flow in the Orkney islands, 18th Cruiser Squadron was part of the British effort to impose a naval blockade on Germany. Germany invaded Poland the following day, and Britain and France declared war on 3 September. At 11:40 that morning, \"Belfast\" received the message ‘Commence hostilities at once against Germany’. On 8 September \"Belfast\" put to sea from Scapa Flow with the battlecruisers , , her sister ship \"Edinburgh\" and four destroyers, on a patrol intended to intercept German ships returning from Norway. In particular, they were to search for the Norddeutscher Lloyd liner . No enemy vessels were found. On 25 September, \"Belfast\" took part in a fleet operation to recover the submarine , during which the ship was attacked by German aircraft, but suffered no damage. On 1 October 1939 \"Belfast\" left Scapa Flow for a patrol in the North Sea. On 5 October \"Belfast\" intercepted and boarded a neutral Norwegian factory ship that was sailing in company with six whaling ships. On 8 October the ship sighted the Swedish merchant ship \"C. P. Lilljevach\" but, in poor weather, did not intercept or board her. The following day she boarded \"Tai Yin\", a Norwegian ship. \"Tai Yin\" had been listed by the Admiralty as suspicious, so a prize crew from \"Belfast\" sailed her to Kirkwall for investigation. On 9 October \"Belfast\" intercepted a German liner, the 13,615-ton \"Cap Norte\", north-west of the Faroe Islands. Disguised as a neutral Swedish vessel, SS \"Ancona\", \"Cap Norte\" was attempting to return to Germany from Brazil; her passengers included German reservists. Under the Admiralty's prize rules, \"Belfast\"s crew later received prize money. On 12 October \"Belfast\" boarded the Swedish ship \"Uddeholm\", which was also sailed to Kirkwall by a prize crew. Returning to harbour, on the night of 13–14 October, \"Belfast\" was among the few ships anchored in Scapa Flow, following intelligence reports of an expected air raid. That night, the battleship was torpedoed by German submarine , which had infiltrated the anchorage. On the morning following the sinking, \"Belfast\" left for Loch Ewe.\n\nOn 10 November \"Belfast\" was taken off the northern patrol and reassigned to the 2nd Cruiser Squadron. This squadron was to form an independent striking force based at Rosyth. On 21 November, \"Belfast\" was to take part in the force's first sortie, a gunnery exercise. At 10:58 am she struck a magnetic mine while leaving the Firth of Forth. The mine broke \"Belfast\"s keel, and wrecked one of her engine and boiler rooms. Twenty officers and men required hospital treatment for injuries caused by the explosion, and a further 26 suffered minor injuries. One man, Painter 2nd Class Henry Stanton, was hospitalised but later died of a head injury, having been thrown against the deckhead by the blast. The tugboat \"Krooman\", towing gunnery targets for the exercise, released her targets and instead towed \"Belfast\" to Rosyth for initial repairs.\n\nInitial assessments of \"Belfast\"s damage showed that, while the mine had done little direct damage to the outer hull, causing only a small hole directly below one of the boiler rooms, the shock of the explosion had caused severe warping, breaking machinery, deforming the decks and causing the keel to hog (bend upwards) by three inches. On 4 January 1940 \"Belfast\" was decommissioned to Care and Maintenance status, becoming the responsibility of Rosyth Dockyard, and her crew dispersed to other vessels. By 28 June she had been repaired sufficiently to sail to Devonport, arriving on 30 June under the command of Lt Cdr H W Parkinson.\n\nDuring her repairs, work was carried out to straighten, reconstruct and strengthen her hull. Her armour belt was also extended and thickened. Her armament was updated with newer 2-pounder pom-pom mountings, and her anti-aircraft armament improved with eighteen 20 mm Oerlikon guns in five twin and eight single mountings, replacing two quadruple 0.5-inch Vickers guns. \"Belfast\" also received new fire control radars for her main, secondary and anti-aircraft guns. Her November 1942 radar fit included one Type 284 set and four Type 283 sets to direct the main armament, three Type 285 sets for the secondary guns, and two Type 285 sets for the 2-pounder anti-aircraft guns. She also received a Type 273 general surface warning radar, Type 251 and 252 sets for identification friend or foe (IFF) purposes, and a Type 281 and Type 242 for air warning. Her 1942 electronics suite also included a Type 270 echosounder. Due to her increased topweight, a bulge was introduced into her hull amidships to improve stability and provide extra longitudinal strength. Her beam had increased to and her draught to forward and aft. Her displacement had risen to  tons.\n\n\"Belfast\" was recommissioned at Devonport on 3 November 1942, under the command of Captain Frederick Parham. On her return to the Home Fleet \"Belfast\" was made flagship of the 10th Cruiser Squadron, flying the flag of Rear-Admiral Robert Burnett, who had previously commanded the Home Fleet's destroyer flotillas. The squadron was responsible for the hazardous task of escorting Arctic convoys to the Soviet Union, operating from Scapa Flow and bases in Iceland. Her radar suite reduced \"Belfast\" need for aerial surveillance, and her aircraft were disembarked in June 1943. \"Belfast\" spent 1943 engaged on convoy escort and blockade patrol duties, and on 5–6 October of the same year, formed part of the covering force during Operation \"Leader\", an airstrike against German shipping in the waters of northern Norway near Bodø by the aircraft carrier .\n\nOn 26 December 1943, \"Belfast\" participated in the Battle of North Cape. This battle, which occurred during the Arctic night, involved two strong Royal Navy formations; the first, Force One, comprised the cruisers , and \"Belfast\" (the 10th Cruiser Squadron) with three destroyers, and the second, Force Two, comprised the battleship and the cruiser with four destroyers. On 25 December 1943, Christmas Day, Nazi Germany's left port in northern Norway to attack Convoy JW55B, which was bound for the Soviet Union. The next day Force One encountered \"Scharnhorst\", prevented her from attacking the convoy, and forced her to turn for home after being damaged by the British cruisers. As \"Scharnhorst\" did so, she was intercepted by Force Two and sunk by the combined formations. \"Belfast\" played an important role in the battle; as flagship of the 10th Cruiser Squadron, she was among the first to encounter \"Scharnhorst\", and coordinated the squadron's defence of the convoy. After \"Scharnhorst\" turned away from the convoy, Admiral Burnett in \"Belfast\" shadowed her by radar from outside visual range, enabling her interception by \"Duke of York\".\n\nAfter North Cape, \"Belfast\" refuelled at Kola Inlet before sailing for the United Kingdom, arriving at Scapa to replenish her fuel, ammunition and stores on New Year's Day 1944. \"Belfast\" sailed to Rosyth on 10 January, where her crew received a period of leave. February 1944 saw \"Belfast\" resume her Arctic convoy duties, and on 30 March 1944 \"Belfast\" sailed with the covering force of Operation Tungsten, a large carrier-launched Fleet Air Arm airstrike against the German battleship . Moored in Altafjord in northern Norway, \"Tirpitz\" was the German navy's last surviving capital ship. Forty-two Fairey Barracuda dive-bombers from and made up the strike force; escorted by eighty fighters. Launched on 3 April, the bombers scored fourteen hits, immobilising \"Tirpitz\" for two months, with one Barracuda shot down. \"Belfast\" underwent minor repairs at Rosyth from 23 April to 8 May, while her crew received a period of leave. On 8 May \"Belfast\" returned to Scapa Flow and carried the King during his pre-invasion visit to the Home Fleet.\nFor the invasion of Normandy \"Belfast\" was made headquarters ship of Bombardment Force E flying the flag of Rear-Admiral Frederick Dalrymple-Hamilton, and was to support landings by British and Canadian forces in the Gold and Juno Beach sectors. On 2 June \"Belfast\" left the River Clyde for her bombardment areas. That morning Prime Minister Winston Churchill had announced his intention to go to sea with the fleet and witness the invasion from HMS \"Belfast\". This was opposed by the Supreme Allied Commander, General Dwight D. Eisenhower, and the First Sea Lord, Sir Andrew Cunningham. An intervention by the King eventually prevented Churchill from going.\n\nThe invasion was to begin on 5 June but bad weather forced a 24-hour delay. At 5:30 am on 6 June, \"Belfast\" opened fire on a German artillery battery at Ver-sur-Mer, suppressing the guns until the site was overrun by British infantry of 7th Battalion, Green Howards. On 12 June \"Belfast\" supported Canadian troops moving inland from Juno Beach and returned to Portsmouth on 16 June to replenish her ammunition. She returned two days later for further bombardments. On the night of 6 July \"Belfast\" was threatened at anchor by German motor torpedo boats (\"E-boats\"). She evaded them by weighing anchor and moving to the concealment of a smoke screen. \"Belfast\" fired her last round in anger in European waters on 8 July, in company with the monitor and the battleship , as part of Operation \"Charnwood\". On 10 July she sailed for Scapa, the fighting in France having moved inland beyond the range of her guns. During her five weeks off Normandy, \"Belfast\" had fired 1,996 rounds from her six-inch guns.\n\nOn 29 July 1944, Captain Parham handed over command of HMS \"Belfast\" to Captain R M Dick, and until April 1945 \"Belfast\" underwent a refit to prepare for service against Japan in the Far East which improved her accommodation for tropical conditions, and updated her anti-aircraft armament and fire control in order to counter expected kamikaze attacks by Japanese aircraft. By May 1945, \"Belfast\" mounted thirty-six 2-pounder guns in two eight-gun mounts, four quadruple mounts, and four single mounts. She also mounted fourteen 20 mm Oerlikons. Her two aftmost 4-inch mountings were removed, and the remainder fitted with Remote Power Control. Her empty hangars were converted to crew accommodation, and her aircraft catapult was removed.\n\nHer radar fit now included a Type 277 radar set to replace her Type 273 for surface warning. Her Type 281 air warning set was replaced by a single-antenna Type 281B set, while a Type 293Q was fitted for close-range height-finding and surface warning. A Type 274 set was fitted for main armament fire direction. On 17 June 1945, with the war in Europe at an end, \"Belfast\" sailed for the Far East via Gibraltar, Malta, Alexandria, Port Said, Aden, Colombo and Sydney. By the time she arrived in Sydney on 7 August \"Belfast\" had been made flagship of the 2nd Cruiser Squadron of the British Pacific Fleet. While in Sydney \"Belfast\" underwent another short refit, supplementing her close-range armament with five 40 mm Bofors guns. \"Belfast\" had been expected to join in Operation \"Downfall\", but this was forestalled by the Japanese surrender on 15 August 1945.\n\nWith the end of the war, \"Belfast\" remained in the Far East, conducting a number of cruises to ports in Japan, China and Malaya and sailing for Portsmouth on 20 August 1947. There she paid off into reserve, and underwent a refit during which her turbines were opened for maintenance. She also received two more single Bofors guns, in place of two of her single 2-pounder mountings. She was recommissioned on 22 September 1948 and before returning to the Far East visited her home city of Belfast arriving on 20 October. The following day, 21 October 1948, the ship's company marked Trafalgar Day with a march through the city. The next day \"Belfast\" took charge of a silver ship's bell, a gift of the people of Belfast. She sailed for Hong Kong on 23 October to join the Royal Navy's Far East Station, arriving in late December. By 1949, the political situation in China was precarious, with the Chinese Civil War moving towards its conclusion. As flagship of the 5th Cruiser Squadron, \"Belfast\" was the Far Eastern Station's headquarters ship during the April 1949 \"Amethyst\" Incident, in which a British sloop, , was trapped in the Yangtze River by the communist People's Liberation Army. \"Belfast\" remained in Hong Kong during 1949, sailing for Singapore on 18 January 1950. There she underwent a minor refit between January to March 1950 and in June she joined the Far East Fleet's summer cruise. On 25 June 1950, while \"Belfast\" was visiting Hakodate in Japan, North Korean forces crossed the 38th Parallel, starting the Korean War.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Korean War, \"Belfast\" became part of the United Nations naval forces. Originally part of the US Navy's Task Force 77, \"Belfast\" was detached in order to operate independently on 5 July 1950. During July and early August 1950, \"Belfast\" undertook coastal patrols and was based at Sasebo in Japan's Nagasaki Prefecture. From 19 July \"Belfast\" supported troops fighting around Yongdok, accompanied by . That day \"Belfast\" fired an accurate 350-round bombardment from her 6-inch guns, and was praised by an American admiral as a \"straight-shooting ship\". On 6 August she sailed for the UK for a short (but needed) refit, after which she again set sail for the far east and arrived back at Sasebo on 31 January 1951.\n\nDuring 1951 \"Belfast\" mounted a number of coastal patrols and bombarded a variety of targets. On 1 June she arrived at Singapore for refitting, arriving back on patrol on 31 August. In September 1951 \"Belfast\" provided anti-aircraft cover for a salvage operation to recover a crashed enemy MiG-15 jet fighter. She conducted further bombardments and patrols before receiving a month's leave from operations, returning to action on 23 December.\n\nIn 1952 \"Belfast\" continued her coastal patrol duties. On 29 July 1952 \"Belfast\" was hit by enemy fire while engaging an artillery battery on Wolsa-ri island. A 75 mm shell struck a forward compartment, killing a British sailor of Chinese origin in his hammock and wounding four other Chinese ratings. This was the only time \"Belfast\" was hit by enemy fire during her Korean service. On 27 September 1952 \"Belfast\" was relieved by two other Town-class cruisers, and HMS \"Newcastle\", and sailed back to the UK. She had steamed over in the combat zone and fired more than 8,000 rounds from her 6-inch guns during the Korean War. She paid off in Chatham on 4 November 1952 and entered reserve at Devonport on 1 December.\n\nIn reserve, \"Belfast\"s future was uncertain: post-war defence cuts made manpower-intensive cruisers excessively costly to operate, and it was not until March 1955 that the decision was taken to modernise \"Belfast\". Work began on 6 January 1956. Although described as only an extended refit, the cost was substantial for this large middle-aged cruiser, 5.5 million pounds Changes included: providing the new twin MK 5 40 mm and the twin 4-inch mount with individual MRS8 directors; the 4-inch guns training and elevation speed was increased to 20 degrees a second; and protecting key parts of the ship against nuclear, biological or chemical attack. This last consideration meant significantly enlarging and enclosing her bridge, creating a two-tiered, five-sided superstructure which radically altered her appearance. The most significant change was better accommodations for a smaller crew more fitting of post-war needs, her tripod masts replaced with lattice masts, and timber decking replaced with steel everywhere except the quarterdeck. The overall effect was to create a cruiser significantly more habitable but different internally and to a degree in external appearance, from wartime cruisers but still essentially a surface warfare, 'anti Sverdlov' cruiser, with anti aircraft defence, updated only for point defence, with 262 radar, locking only, 4km, out . \"Belfast\" recommissioned at Devonport on 12 May 1959. Her close-range armament was standardised to six twin Bofors guns, and her close-range fire direction similarly standardised to eight close-range blind fire directors fitted with Type 262 radar. Her 1959 radar fit included two Type 274,lock and follow radar directors, for main armament direction, against sea and land targets, (other 1950s cruiser reconstructions of three Town cruisers and HMS \"Newfoundland\" and HMS \"Ceylon\", had only a single main 274 director, limiting their surface effectiveness) Type 277Q and 293Q for height-finding and surface warning, Type 960M for air warning, and 974 for surface warning. In order to save weight, her torpedo armament was removed.Modern passive sonar type 174, 176 was installed and the cruiser quitened with rubber insulation of the propellor shaft \n\n\"Belfast\" arrived in Singapore on 16 December 1959, and spent most of 1960 at sea on exercise, calling at ports in Hong Kong, Borneo, India, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), Australia, the Philippines and Japan. On 31 January 1961, \"Belfast\" recommissioned, under the command of Captain Morgan Morgan-Giles. On her final foreign commission \"Belfast\" joined a number of exercises in the Far East, and in December 1961 she provided the British guard of honour at Tanganyika's independence ceremony in Dar-es-Salaam.\n\nThe ship left Singapore on 26 March 1962 for the UK, sailing east via Hong Kong, Guam and Pearl Harbor, San Francisco, Seattle, British Columbia, Panama and Trinidad. She arrived at Portsmouth on 19 June 1962.\n\nRecommissioned in July, she made a final visit to Belfast from 23–29 November, before paying off into reserve on 25 February 1963. In July 1963 \"Belfast\" was recommissioned for the last time, with a crew of the Royal Naval Reserve (RNR) and a number of Sea Cadets flying the flag of the Admiral Commanding Reserves, Rear Admiral Hugh Martell. \"Belfast\" sailed for Gibraltar in company with sixteen RNR minesweepers for a two-week exercise in the Mediterranean on 10 August. Martell's obituarist considered this commission a well-judged contrivance which 'did much to restore the confidence and image of the new RNR' which had undergone an acrimonious amalgamation with the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve in 1958.\n\n\"Belfast\" returned to Devonport on 24 August 1963 and underwent a short refit to prepare her for paying off into reserve, which occurred in December 1963. In January 1966 parts of the ship and power systems were reactivated and from May 1966 to 1970 she served as an accommodation ship (taking over those duties from \"Sheffield\"), moored in Fareham Creek, for the Reserve Division at Portsmouth. While \"Belfast\" lay at Fareham Creek the Imperial War Museum, Britain's national museum of twentieth-century conflict, became interested in preserving a 6-inch turret. The turret would represent a number of classes of cruiser (then disappearing from service) and would complement the museum's pair of British 15-inch naval guns. On 14 April 1967 museum staff visited , a also moored in Fareham Creek at the time. Following the visit the possibility was raised of preserving an entire ship. \"Gambia\" had already severely deteriorated, so attention turned to the possibility of saving \"Belfast\". The Imperial War Museum, the National Maritime Museum and the Ministry of Defence established a joint committee, which reported in June 1968 that the scheme was practical and economic. However, in early 1971 the government's Paymaster General decided against preservation. On 4 May 1971 \"Belfast\" was \"reduced to disposal\" to await scrapping.\n\nFollowing the government's refusal, a private trust was formed to campaign for the ship's preservation. The HMS \"Belfast\" Trust was established; its chairman was Rear-Admiral Sir Morgan Morgan-Giles, captain of \"Belfast\" from January 1961 to July 1962. As Member of Parliament (MP) for Winchester, Morgan-Giles addressed the House of Commons on 8 March 1971. He described \"Belfast\" as being in \"a really wonderful state of preservation\" and that saving her for the nation represented a \"case of grasping the last opportunity\". Among the MPs who spoke in support of Morgan-Giles was Gordon Bagier, MP for Sunderland South, who served as a Royal Marine gunner aboard \"Belfast\" and was present at both the sinking of \"Scharnhorst\" and the Normandy landings. Speaking for the government, the Under-secretary for the Navy, Peter Michael Kirk, said that \"Belfast\" was \"one of the most historic ships which the Navy has had in the last 20 years\", but that he could not prevent the stripping of the ship's removable equipment, as this was already too far advanced to be halted. He did, however, agree to postpone any decision on the scrapping of \"Belfast\" to allow the Trust to put together a formal proposal.\n\nFollowing the Trust's efforts, the government agreed to hand over \"Belfast\" to the Trustees in July 1971, with Vice Admiral Sir Donald Gibson as her first director. At a press conference in August the Trust announced \"Operation \"Seahorse\"\", the plan to bring \"Belfast\" to London. She was towed from Portsmouth to London via Tilbury, where she was fitted out as a museum. She was towed to her final resting place above Tower Bridge on 15 October 1971 and settled in a huge hole that had been dredged in the river bed; then she was attached to two dolphins which guide her during the rise and falll of the tide.\n\nShe was opened to the public on Trafalgar Day, 21 October 1971. The date was significant, as \"Belfast\" was the first naval vessel to be saved for the nation since , Lord Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar. Though no longer part of the Royal Navy, HMS \"Belfast\" was granted a special dispensation to allow her to continue to fly the White Ensign.\n\nNow a museum, the ship's opening was well received: in 1972 the HMS \"Belfast\" Trust won the British Tourist Authority's \"Come to Britain\" trophy. Support for the ship's restoration was received from individuals, from the Royal Navy, and from commercial businesses; in 1973, for example, the Worshipful Company of Bakers provided dummy bread for display in the ship's NAAFI and bakery. By 1974, areas including the Admiral's bridge and forward boiler and engine rooms had been restored and fitted out. That year also saw the refurbishment of the ship's Operations Room by a team from , and the return of \"Belfast\"s six twin Bofors mounts, along with their fire directors. By December 1975 \"Belfast\" had received 1,500,000 visitors. In 1976 \"Belfast\" was reaffiliated with the successors to the British Army's Royal Ulster Rifles, the Royal Irish Rangers, and in the same year the Royal Naval Amateur Radio Society restored the ship's Bridge Wireless Office to working order.\n\nBy 1977, the financial position of the HMS \"Belfast\" Trust had become marginal, and the Imperial War Museum sought permission to merge the Trust into the museum. On 19 January 1978 the Secretary of State for Education and Science, Shirley Williams, accepted the proposal stating that HMS \"Belfast\" \"is a unique demonstration of an important phase of our history and technology\". The ship was transferred to the museum on 1 March 1978, and became the Imperial War Museum's third branch, Duxford aerodrome having been acquired in 1976. In October 1998, the HMS \"Belfast\" Association was formed to reunite former members of the ship’s company. The Imperial War Museum's Sound Archive also seeks to record oral history interviews with former crewmen.\n\nSince being brought to London \"Belfast\" has twice been drydocked as part of the ship’s long-term preservation. In 1982 she was docked at Tilbury, and in June 1999 \"Belfast\" was towed to Portsmouth. This was the first time she had been to sea in 28 years and thus required a Certificate of Seaworthiness from the Maritime and Coastguard Agency. While in dock, her entire hull was cleaned, blasted, and repainted, her hull blanking plates inspected and an ultrasonic survey carried out. She is not expected to require further drydocking until 2020. While under tow to Portsmouth she was delayed by bad weather and arrived a day late: it had been intended that she would arrive on 6 June 1999, the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Normandy landings. During the maintenance work, \"Belfast\" hull and topsides were repainted in her specific camouflage scheme officially known as \"Admiralty Disruptive Camouflage Type 25\", which she had worn from November 1942 to July 1944. This was objected to by some, due to the anachronistic conflict between her camouflage, which reflects the majority of her active Second World War service, and her present configuration, which was the result of the ship's extended refit from January 1956 to May 1959. With the establishment of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport's (DCMS) Advisory Committee on National Historic Ships in 2006, \"Belfast\" was listed as part of the National Historic Fleet.\n\nOn 9 May 2010, a ceremony was held aboard \"Belfast\" to mark the 65th anniversary of end of the Second World War in Europe. Veterans of the Arctic convoys were in attendance to receive medals from the Russian Ambassador Yuri Fedotov. During the ceremony it was announced that, as part of the restoration of the ship, two new masts had been manufactured at the Severnaya Verf shipyard near Saint Petersburg. The production of the masts, to replace corroded originals, had been supported by a number of Russian businesses at a reported cost of £500,000. The restoration of the masts involved removing the fittings from both masts, allowing them to be individually restored. The old masts were then cut down in sections, the new masts erected, and the original fittings replaced. On 19 October 2010, the new masts were dedicated at a ceremony attended by HMS \"Belfast\" veterans, by Prince Philip and officials from the Russian embassy and government.\n\nIn 2017, it was announced that the third of the Royal Navy's Type 26 frigates would be named \"Belfast\". At the same time, the IWM stated that the museum would be renamed as \"HMS \"Belfast\" (1938)\" as a means of avoiding confusion.\n\nWhen \"Belfast\" was first opened to the public, visitors were limited to the upper decks and forward superstructure. As of 2011, nine decks are open to the public. Access to the ship is via a walkway which connects the quarterdeck with the pedestrianised footpath on the south bank of the River Thames. The Imperial War Museum's guidebook to HMS \"Belfast\" divides the ship into three broad sections. The first of these, \"Life on board the ship\", focuses on the experience of serving at sea. Restored compartments, some populated with dressed figures, illustrate the crew's living conditions and the ship's various facilities such as the sick bay, galley, laundry, chapel, mess decks and NAAFI. Since 2002, school and youth groups have been able to stay onboard \"Belfast\" overnight, sleeping in bunks on a restored 1950s mess deck. The second section, \"The inner workings\", below the waterline and protected by the ship's armoured belt, contains core mechanical, electrical and communication systems. As well as the engine and boiler rooms, other compartments include the transmitting station (housing the ship's Admiralty Fire Control Table, a mechanical computer), the forward steering position and one of \"Belfast\"s six-inch shell rooms and magazines. The third section, \"Action stations\", includes the upper deck and forward superstructure with the ship's armament, fire control, and command facilities. Areas open to the public include the operations room, Admiral's bridge and gun direction platform. During 2011, two of these areas were reinterpreted. The operations room was restored to its appearance during Exercise Pony Express, a large British-Australian-American joint exercise held off North Borneo in 1961. The reinterpretation included an interactive audio-visual plotting table. In July 2011, the interior of Y Turret, the aftmost 6-inch turret, was redisplayed using audio-visual and atmospheric effects, seeking to evoke the experience of a gunner at the Battle of North Cape. To emphasise the range of the ship's armament, the forward six-inch guns of A and B Turrets are trained on the London Gateway service area on the M1 motorway, some 12.5 miles away on the outskirts of London. A 4-inch gun mount and a shell hoist are kept in working order and used during blank-firing demonstrations by the Wavy Navy re-enactment group. In addition to the various areas of the ship open to visitors, some compartments have been fitted out as dedicated exhibition space. Permanent exhibitions include \"HMS \"Belfast\" in War and Peace\" and \"Life at Sea\". The cost of admission to HMS \"Belfast\" includes a multilingual audio guide.\n\nHMS \"Belfast\" also serves as the headquarters of the City of London Sea Cadet Corps, and her prestigious location in central London as a result means she frequently has other vessels berthed alongside. In October 2007 \"Belfast\" hosted the naming ceremony of the lighthouse tender with the Queen and Prince Philip in attendance.\n\nOn 29 November 2011, two workmen suffered minor injuries after a section of gangway, connected to the ship, collapsed during renovation works. The ship was closed to visitors following the accident. An investigation later established that the collapse of the gangway had been caused by a subcontractor cutting through the gangway's structure during refurbishment work. \"Belfast\" re-opened on 18 May 2012.\n\nThe closure delayed the construction of a new two-storey bank-side pavilion to replace \"Belfast\"s existing retail and admissions building. The structure, for which planning permission was received in October 2011, provides a ground floor café, shop and admissions area, and a rooftop bar. Previously expected to be complete in summer 2012, the structure opened in April 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17254627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17254627", "title": "Handbook on Japanese Military Forces", "text": "Handbook on Japanese Military Forces\n\nWar Department Technical Manual TM-E 30-480 Handbook On Japanese Military Forces dated 15 September 1944 was the US Army's guide to the Japanese armed forces for the use of troops in the field. The \"E\" stands for \"enemy.\"\n\nIt was 8\" × 10½\", bound in two removable olive pasteboard covers to facilitate the addition and deletion of material. It was originally 401pp., with 412 illustrations including diagrams, photos, charts. color plates of uniforms & medals. It detailed most of the known information about the Imperial Japanese Military as of the publication date. It superseded the original TM E 30-480 dated 14 May 1941 and the second edition dated 21 September 1942. The handbook was classified \"Restricted\" (the lowest of the four wartime security classifications) to enable its dissemination to the widest possible audience.\n\nReaders should take care when consulting TM-E 30-480 as there are many inaccuracies shown by post war research. It is a wartime publication subject to the limitations of wartime intelligence collection and dissemination.\n\nTM-E 30-480 has been reprinted several times by several different publishers. The 1995 edition includes an Introduction by David Isby and an afterword by Jeffrey Ethell, Louisiana State University Press, Baton Rouge Louisiana 70803, , 403 pp., illus, in colour and b/w, maps, wraps. None of these editions is complete.\n\nCHAPTER I. RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING.\nCHAPTER II. JAPANESE MILITARY SYSTEM.\nCHAPTER III. FIELD ORGANIZATION.\n\nCHAPTER IV. JAPANESE AIR SERVICE.\nCHAPTER V. Special Forces.\n\nCHAPTER VI. JAPANESE MILITARY POLICE.\n\nCHAPTER VII. TACTICS OF THE JAPANESE ARMY.\nCHAPTER VIII. SUPPLY, MOVEMENTS, AND EVACUATION.\nCHAPTER IX. WEAPONS.\nCHAPTER X. EQUIPMENT.\nCHAPTER XI. UNIFORMS, PERSONAL EQUIPMENT, AND INSIGNIA \n\nCHAPTER XII. CONVENTIONAL SIGNS AND ABBREVIATIONS\nCHAPTER XIII. MILITARY TERMS AND CHARACTERS \nAPPENDIX SUPPLEMENTAL DATA\n\nTM E 30-480 Handbook on Japanese Military Forces had five Changes which were as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38154653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38154653", "title": "Harry Frank Guggenheim Hall of Gems and Minerals", "text": "Harry Frank Guggenheim Hall of Gems and Minerals\n\nThe Guggenheim Hall is an exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History on the Upper West Side in Manhattan, New York City, that hosts one of the world's largest geology collections. It focuses on petrology, mineralization and the anthropology of gems and minerals. It is the permanent home of the Star of India, one of the world's largest and most famous star sapphires. \"The New York Times\" architectural critic, Paul Goldberger, said, \"It is one of the finest museum installations that any city has seen in many years\". It operates under the museum's department of Earth and Planetary Sciences.\n\nThe Harry Frank Guggenheim Hall of Minerals houses hundreds of unusual geological specimens. It adjoins the Morgan Memorial Hall of Gems showcasing many rare, and valuable gemstones. The exhibit was designed by the architectural firm of Wm. F. Pedersen and Assoc. with Fred Bookhardt in charge. Vincent Manson was the curator of the Mineralogy Department. The exhibit took six years to design and build, 1970–1976.\n\nOn October 29, 1964, the Star of India, along with the Eagle Diamond, the DeLong Star Ruby and the Midnight Star, were stolen from the Museum. The burglars, who included Jack Murphy, gained entrance by climbing through a bathroom window they had unlocked hours before the Museum was closed. The DeLong Star Ruby and the Midnight Star were both recovered. Weeks later, the Star of India was later recovered from a locker in a Miami bus station, but the Eagle Diamond was never found; it may have been recut or lost. The DeLong Star Ruby was recovered for a $25,000 ransom, paid by Florida businessman John D. MacArthur.\n\nOn display are many renowned samples that are chosen from among the Museum's more than 100,000 pieces. Among these are the Patricia Emerald, a 632 carat (126 g) stone that is considered one of the world's great emeralds for its size and color, and also because it is dihexagonal, or 12-sided. It was discovered in 1920 in a mine high in the Colombian Andes. The Patricia is one of the few large gem-quality emeralds that remains uncut. Also on display is the 563 carat (113 g) Star of India, the largest, and most famous, star sapphire in the world. It was discovered over 300 years ago in Sri Lanka, most likely in the sands of ancient river beds from where sapphires continue to be found today. It was donated to the Museum by the financier J.P. Morgan. The thin, radiant, six pointed star, or asterism, is created by incoming light that reflects from needle-like crystals of the mineral rutile which are found within the sapphire. The Star of India is polished into the shape of a cabochon, or dome, to enhance the star's beauty. Among other notable specimens on display are a 596-pound (270 kg) topaz, a 4.5 ton specimen of blue azurite/malachite ore that was found in the Copper Queen Mine in Bisbee, Arizona at the start of the 20th century; and a rare, 100 carat (20 g) orange-colored padparadschan sapphire from Sri Lanka, considered \"the mother of all pads.\" The collection also includes the Midnight Star Ruby, a 116.75-carat deep purplish-red star ruby.\n"}
{"id": "780723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780723", "title": "Hereward Thimbleby Price", "text": "Hereward Thimbleby Price\n\nHereward Thimbleby Price (1880–1964) was an English author and Professor of English at the University of Michigan.\n\nPrice was born in a small town in Madagascar named Ambatolahinandrianisiahana as a son of an English missionary. Returning to England he was educated at various private schools, and in 1899 he was matriculated at the University of Oxford. During this time he also worked as an assistant in the creation of the Oxford English Dictionary. In 1904 he was appointed lecturer for English at the University of Bonn, where he wrote and published his thesis \"A history of ablaut in the strong verbs from Caxton to the end of the Elizabethan period\" (1910). While living in Germany, Price was drafted into the army during World War I. He was captured by Russian soldiers, but escaped to China. In 1919 he wrote a book about his experiences called \"Boche and Bolshevik: Experiences of an Englishman in the German Army and in Russian Prisons\".\n\nAfter coming to America and gaining a professorship, he wrote many other books, including \"Foreign influences on Middle English\", and \"Construction in Shakespeare\". Price died in Washington D.C. in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "13244538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13244538", "title": "Housing policy memorandum", "text": "Housing policy memorandum\n\nThe Housing Policy Memorandum is a report that compares supply and demand about housing policy. Conclusions about the housing policy of an organization are drawn, and possible solutions are indicated in a logical way. This could concern the housing policy applicable over a period of five to ten years. The demand is related to developments in society, within the company and the requirements of management and employees. The supply is related to existing housing. It, therefore, mainly concerns the \"what\" and \"why\" of the housing policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "13668385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13668385", "title": "Indexing Society of Canada", "text": "Indexing Society of Canada\n\nThe Indexing Society of Canada/Société canadienne d'indexation (ISC/SCI) was established in 1977 as Canada's national association of indexers (professionals who create indexes for books, periodicals, web sites, and more).\n\nOriginally known as the Indexing and Abstracting Society of Canada/Société canadienne pour l'analyse de documents (IASC/SCAD), its name was changed in 2006 to reflect the fact that indexing is the major specialty of its members; however, members maintain a variety of skill sets.\n\nAlthough Canada’s national indexing society was formally established in 1977, its origins go back to the early seventies. When the Index Committee of the Bibliographical Society of Canada held its first executive meeting on March 20, 1971, in Toronto, it was resolved that\nthe Committee should concern itself primarily with the promotion of indexing and the training of indexers, rather than undertake major indexing projects itself. Guidelines for future activities were agreed upon, including the compilation of a Union List of Indexes and a Directory of Indexers.\nAn \"index training workshop pilot project\" was later set up in co-operation with the School of Library Science (now the Faculty of Information) at the University of Toronto.\n\nIn March 1977, the Committee on Bibliographical Services for Canada (CBSC) hosted an indexing and abstracting workshop in the National Library of Canada (now Library and Archives Canada). Attendees \"noted the absence of a specific forum for abstracters and indexers in Canada, and recommended that such an association be formed.\" The CBSC then sponsored an Open Forum for Indexers and Abstracters on June 12, 1977, at the Canadian Library Association conference in Montreal. This meeting led to the establishment of IASC/SCAD.\n\nThe first International Conference of the British Society of Indexers (SI) in 1978 was attended by IASC/SCAD representatives, who discussed with their British counterparts affiliation of the Canadian organization with the SI. As noted by the SI:\nIt was Canada's bilingualism, reinforced by the influence of a strong contingent of delegates from France, that stimulated consideration – for the first time – of the possibility of moving out of the English-speaking limitations within which we have hitherto operated. Even before the formalities of affiliation are completed, the youngest member of the family is already making its influence felt.\nFormal affiliation of IASC/SCAD with the SI took place on January 1, 1979, and terms of affiliation were published in \"The Indexer\" in April 1979. At that time, IASC/SCAD had 115 individual and institutional members. The current terms of affiliation can be found in the International Agreement of Indexing Societies.\n\nSociety members are located across Canada, and there are members in the United States and Europe as well. The Society encourages students to join by offering them a special membership rate.\n\nThe Society has established four regions, each with its own representative: British Columbia; Central Canada; Eastern Canada; and the Prairies and Northern Canada. Regional boundaries are reviewed annually to ensure that they reflect the geographic distribution of Society membership.\n\nThe \"Bulletin\" is published three times a year, and the \"Register of Indexers Available\" annually.\n\nIn addition to an alphabetical listing, the \"Register\" lists indexers by their skill sets, materials indexed, and subjects indexed. Indexers who work in French are also given separate listings. Some specialized skills listed in the \"Register\" include glossary writing, HTML encoding, project management, teaching, and thesaurus construction. Materials on which Society members work go beyond the standard trade or scholarly monograph to include archives, correspondence, legal and medical materials, maps, style guides, and Web sites. And subjects in which Society members specialize run the gamut from art, history, literature, music, political science, psychology, and sociology to alternative medicine, aviation, Canada’s First Nations, community activism, ethics, folklore, home improvement, oceanography, and popular culture.\n\nThe Society holds its conference and annual general meeting in a different Canadian city each year. The Society has also held joint conferences with its sister organization in the United States, the American Society for Indexing (ASI).\n\nThe Society actively participates in international indexing matters, sending a representative to the annual Society of Indexers conference, as well as to the ASI conference if possible. It is also represented on \"The Indexer\"’s international board.\n\n"}
{"id": "45452788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45452788", "title": "Korai of the Acropolis of Athens", "text": "Korai of the Acropolis of Athens\n\nThe Korai of the Acropolis of Athens are a group of female statues (Korai), discovered in the Perserschutt of the Acropolis of Athens in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, all of the same typology and clear votive function. Through them it is possible to trace the stylistic evolution of Archaic Attic sculpture for almost a century, from 570 to 480 BC. This demonstrates in particular the beginning and development of Ionian influence on Athenian art of the second half of the 6th century BC. This was the period when Ionian elements first appear in the architectural works of the Peisistratids and close connections between Ionia and Athens developed. Towards the end of the 6th century BC this influence is seen to be overcome, or rather absorbed, and a new style is born, the so-called severe style, with increasing Peloponnesian influence.\n\nAmong the most ancient korai found on the Athenian acropolis, are \"Acropolis 619\" and \"Acropolis 677\" which date from the first half of the 6th century and derive from Samos and Naxos respectively, while the Kore of Lyons, dating to the middle of the century, represents the first example of Ionian influence on Attic sculpture, as well as the first use of typical Ionian costume in Attica. In the same category is \"Acropolis 593\".\n\nThe replacement of the Dorian costume with the Ionian one caused a change in the whole formal system. The hand that held out the offering is detached from the bust to extend forwards, while the arm at her side gathers her skirts, after the model seen in Ionian female figures, like the Group of Geneleos. The change was introduced some time before the Peplos Kore (\"Acropolis 679\"), around 10 or 15 years after the Kore of Lyons.\n\nThe juxtaposition of the Attic korai of the 530s BC with the Leda on the amphora of Exekias in the Museo Gregoriano Etrusco is common. This group includes the Peplos Kore and \"Acropolis 678\", which however display entirely different temperaments from each other. \"Acropolis 669\" seems to Payne to be a transitional figure; the kore has a body structure close to the older model, but the eyes have been reduced in size and the Nasolacrimal ducts are marked, as in all later korai. From this kore onwards, the Ionian costume assumes a standardised form based on the depth and looseness of the drapery of the himation and on the playful representation of the material. Ernst Langlotz does not considerthe combination of old and new elements sufficient justification for a higher dating and places this kore, like \"Acropolis 678\" at the end of the century.\nThe last thirty years of the 6th century are characterised by great attention to the shaping of the face and to the decoration of surfaces, especially visible in the treatment of hair and clothes. An example of this is \"Acropolis 682\", which is comparable to the caryatids of the Siphnian Treasury, as well as the head, \"Acropolis 660\". \"Acropolis 594\", datable to the 510s BC, with the \"epiblema\" worn over the himation, overcomes the dualism between drapery and the form below, as only the creator of the Kore of Euthydikos manages to do. In this figure there is a particular correspondence between the size of the clothing and the body which does not nullify the complexity of the surface design, however.\n\nThe Antenor Kore (\"Acropolis 681\") could be considered an interpretation of this theme by its creator. The connection of the statue with the inscribed base which identifies the creator of the statue as the Athenian sculptor Antenor has been doubted, but it was in any case the work of a master: the treatment of the clothes with deep vertical grooves, alternating with horizontal markings is not found on any of the other figures from the Acropolis.\nThe kore \"Acropolis 674\" is unique in its body structure: a long, thick neck and sloping shoulders contrast with head which is a little heavy. The facial expression is underlined by a new understatement in details of the hairstyle and clothing. The modelling of the face anticipates, at the turn of the century, the simplification which is found in the \"Kore of Euthydikos\" and in Classical sculpture. The \"Archaic smile\" disappears with \"Acropolis 685\", which has a similar structure but has an unusual pose: both hands were extended with offering and as a result her clothing is not gathered up and falls vertically, following the line of her body. Ranuccio Bianchi Bandinelli attributes these korai to a single master whose stylistic fingerprint she also sees in the \"Kore of Euthydikos\" and the Blond Ephebe.\n\"Acropolis 670\" also has an unusual form, dressed only in a chiton with a belt at the waist which creates a large overhang with the fabric above it, a fashion which corresponds to an old Ionian motif but is unusual in this period. The head \"Acropolis 643\" is one of the masterpieces of Attic sculpture, one of the very few female heads which equal the Rayet Head and the Sabouroff Head.\n\nAt the beginning of the 5th century the practice of offering korai as votives began to decline and there are only a few figures from the site which belong to this period. The oldest is \"Acropolis 684\", which has an imposing structure and voluminous drapery. The special individuality of the head recalls \"Acropolis 674\", but is even closer to the \"Kore of Euthydikos\". Because of its similarity to a terracotta head of Athena found at Olympia in 1940, it has been considered the work of a Peloponnesian artist.\nThe fragmentary \"Acropolis 696\" seems to belong with \"Acropolis 684\" and the kore dedicated by Euthydikos. The face has a wide and uniform appearance, the mouth approaches the form taken by the Kore of Euthydikos and the hair is treated in a simple style. The Attic sculptors began to abandon the complex surface decoration which was used in the earlier period. A new way of thinking replaced the old and many of the forms characteristic of this new style seem to come from Peloponnesian bronzes, just as the Euthydikos Kore, through the Blonde Ephebe, seems stylistically similar to the Apollo of the pediment of the Temple of Zeus at Olympia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47926593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47926593", "title": "Landscape with Waterfall", "text": "Landscape with Waterfall\n\nLandscape with Waterfall (Dutch Landschap met waterval, in de verte een kerk) (c. 1660s) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch landscape painter Jacob van Ruisdael.\nIt is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is now in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum.\n\nThis painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1911, who wrote; \"198. A WATERFALL NEAR AN OAK WOOD. Sm. Suppl. 1. In the left foreground is a waterfall divided in the middle by a rock ; to the left is a tree-trunk lying half in the stream. In the right foreground is a rocky bank with a birch stem bent to the right. In the \nright middle distance is a great oak wood, traversed by a road on which stand a man and boy conversing with a woman who sits nursing a child. \nTo the left of the road is the stream, through which two persons apparently men drive a flock of sheep. Beyond is a wooded slope. In the centre is a view over a cornfield with sheaves ; in the distance is a village with two wind-mills and a church. A fine evening, with rolling clouds and sunlight falling on the cornfield and wood. \"This excellent \npicture, in addition to its being one of the largest works of the artist, is singularly grand and rich in its composition, combined with unusual clearness and brilliancy of colouring and the most masterly execution, justly entitling it to the appellation of a chef d'oeuvre\" (Sm.).\n\nSigned in full on a stone on the right at foot ; canvas though the Amsterdam catalogue says it is on oak panel 56 inches by 76 1/2 inches. Exhibited at Amsterdam, 1845, No. 134. \nBought by an ancestor of Sir Charles Blount, Bart., on the Continent about the year 1740 (Sm.). In the collection of Sir Charles Blount, Bart., who sold it to Sm. in 1836. Sold by Sm. to A. van der Hoop, Amsterdam, 1837 (for 1450). Bequeathed by A. van der Hoop to Amsterdam with his collection in 1854. In the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, Van der Hoop bequest, 1910 catalogue, No. 2075.\"\n\nThis scene is very similar to other paintings Ruisdael made of waterfalls. As a warning of the forces of nature, these often included logs or broken tree stumps as silent witness to a more flooded scene than the one depicted. These must have sold well, as most of what remains today of Ruisdael's oeuvre are waterfall scenes. Inspired by the dramatic works of Allaert van Everdingen, Ruisdael also made more Nordic versions (such as \"A Waterfall in a Rocky Landscape\"), which included pine trees and mountains.\n"}
{"id": "1863290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863290", "title": "Leilani Kai", "text": "Leilani Kai\n\nPatty Seymour (born January 23, 1960) is a semi-retired professional wrestler, better known by her ring name Leilani Kai. She began training with The Fabulous Moolah right after finishing high school. In the 1980s, as part of the World Wrestling Federation (WWF)'s Rock 'n' Wrestling Connection, a storyline that combined wrestling and music, Kai defeated Wendi Richter to become the Women's Champion. Kai, however, lost the title at the inaugural WrestleMania event. She was later paired with Judy Martin, in a tag team that would become known as The Glamour Girls. The team held the Women's Tag Team Championship twice (managed by \"The Mouth of the South\" Jimmy Hart) and the LPWA Tag Team Championship once. In her later career, Kai returned briefly to the WWF in 1994, challenging for the Women's Championship at WrestleMania X. She also wrestled for World Championship Wrestling under the name Patty Stonegrinder and held the NWA World Women's Championship.\n\nSeymour was trained by The Fabulous Moolah in 1975 right after she finished high school. She was originally from Florida, but because Moolah thought she looked a little bit Hawaiian, Seymour was given the ring name Leilani Kai. Her fellow wrestlers also bestowed upon her the nickname \"The Hawaiian Princess\" during her early career. Four weeks after beginning her training, Moolah sent her on a two-week tour of Alaska. Over the next few years she worked for promotions throughout the United States, including in Oklahoma, Minnesota, California, and New York. It was in 1979 in North Carolina, that Kai first began working with Judy Martin, who would be her future tag team partner.\n\nOn July 23, 1984, Wendi Richter defeated The Fabulous Moolah at MTV's \"The Brawl to End it All\" for the WWF Women's Championship, ending what was billed as the longest championship reign in professional wrestling history (Moolah's 28-year reign, though in reality she had won and lost the title on numerous occasions and Richter actually ended a 7-year reign). As a result, in early 1985, Kai—who had been trained by Moolah—wrestled Richter and defeated her for the title at \"The War to Settle the Score\", with Moolah in her corner and singer Cyndi Lauper in Richter's corner. Richter, however, regained the title at the first-ever WrestleMania one month later. These matches were part of the WWF's \"Rock 'n' Wrestling Connection\", an era that combined both music and professional wrestling.\n\nKai was then paired with Judy Martin, and the duo won the WWF Women's Tag Team Championship from the champions Velvet McIntyre and Desiree Petersen in Egypt in August 1985, although this match's existence has been disputed. Meanwhile, in August 1986, Kai traveled to Japan where she won All Japan Women's Pro-Wrestling's All Pacific Championship from Chigusa Nagayo, whom she also lost the title to in April 1987.\n\nIn November 1987, Kai and Martin became known as The Glamour Girls, and she underwent an image change that involved bleaching her dark hair platinum blonde at the suggestion of their manager Jimmy Hart. The duo appeared at the first Survivor Series in 1987 as part of then champion Sherri Martel's team to face the Fabulous Moolah's team. Martel's team—Martel, the Glamour Girls, Dawn Marie, and Donna Christanello—lost to The Fabulous Moolah's team—Moolah, Velvet McIntyre, Rockin' Robin, and the Jumping Bomb Angels (Noriyo Tateno and Itsuki Yamazaki). Kai and Martin feuded in 1988 with Japanese imports the Jumping Bomb Angels for the Women's Tag Team Championship. The two teams staged a two out of three falls match at the first Royal Rumble event in 1988, with the Jumping Bomb Angels capturing the gold. Kai and Martin recaptured the title months later in June 1988 before the belts were once again abandoned in 1989 when the company lost interest in the women's division.\n\nThe Glamour Girls then surfaced in the newly formed Ladies Professional Wrestling Association (LPWA), managed by Adnan El Kassey. In February 1991, they won the LPWA Tag Team Championship from the team of Misty Blue and Heidi Lee Morgan. Leilani Kai appeared on the November 10, 1991 episode of \"WCW Main Event\", losing to Madusa. They retained the Tag Team Championship against Malia Hosaka and Bambi at the only LPWA pay per view Superladies Showdown in 1992. The title was abandoned when the promotion closed.\n\nKai returned to the WWF on March 20, 1994 at WrestleMania X to unsuccessfully challenge Alundra Blayze in a Women's Championship match. In the mid-to-late 1990s, Kai wrestled in World Championship Wrestling under the name Patty Stonegrinder, usually wrestling against Madusa.\n\nKai traded the NWA Mid-Atlantic Women's Championship with Strawberry Fields in 2000, holding the belt a total of three times. In the summer of 2002, Kai challenged Lexie Fyfe for the Professional Girl Wrestling Association's (PGWA) championship in Branson, Missouri and won the belt. In 2002, however, Pippa L'Vinn defeated her for the title.\n\nOn March 12, 2003, she defeated Madison to win the NWA World Women's Championship in a dark match on a Total Nonstop Action Wrestling pay-per-view. She defended the belt at the NWA 55th Anniversary Show against AJ Sparx in October 2003. She was later stripped of the title by NWA President Bill Behrens on June 19, 2004 after Kai no-showed several events.\n\nAfter becoming less active in the ring, she also began training female wrestlers, including Amber O'Neal. She also served as a trainer for the California-based Women of Wrestling.\n\nOn September 5, 2013 it was announced that Kai will debut at Pro Wrestling Syndicate Bombshells against Sumie Sakai on September 28 in Iselin, NJ.\n\nOn May 31, 2014 Kai appeared on West Coast Wrestling Connection, slapping Kylie Sutton for allegedly implying that she was old. The following week, Kai was scheduled to face Sutton in a match. After refusing to participate, she forced her manager Jonny Fairplay to take her place. Sutton won the match by DQ after Kai entered the ring and attacked her, before referees pulled her off.\n\nIn addition to wrestling, Seymour has trained with nunchucks for at least two years. She also rides motorcycles, deep sea fishes, and hunts wild boar. Seymour previously owned an apartment in Hawaii.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4022411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022411", "title": "MV Krait", "text": "MV Krait\n\nThe MV \"Krait\" is a wooden-hulled vessel famous for its use during World War II by the Z Special Unit (Z Force) of Australia during the raid against Japanese ships anchored in Singapore Harbour. The raid was known as Operation Jaywick.\n\nThe MV \"Krait\" is on display at the Australian National Maritime Museum. The vessel was moved to Michael Bartley Shipwrights for hull restoration works at Woolwich. MV Krait has now returned to ANMM for continuation of her restoration by Museum Shipwrights and Engineers to the 1943 configuration representing the time of the Singapore raid. Installations such as Radio room representations, long range tanks and associated pipework have been installed along with galley module added to aft deck.\n\n\"Krait\" was originally a Japanese fishing vessel based in Singapore called \"Kofuku Maru\". Following the outbreak of war, the ship was taken over by Allied forces and used to evacuate over 1,100 people from ships sunk along the east coast of Sumatra. The ship eventually reached Australia via Ceylon and India in 1942, and was handed over to the Australian military. In Australian service, she was renamed \"Krait\" after the small but deadly snake, and also because it sounds like the word \"crate\", which described its appearance to some.\n\nIn September 1943, \"Krait\" transported members of Z Special Unit to Singapore, where they successfully raided the city's harbour, sinking seven ships. She returned to Australia in October. \"Krait\" was used by the Australian military throughout the war, and was present at the surrender of the Japanese forces on Ambon in September 1945.\n\n\"Krait\" was later used as transport for intelligence-gathering missions to islands in the area, including Buru, Aru, Ceram, Banda, and Saparua. During this period, she carried several Japanese prisoners, army survey teams, and a naval intelligence officer.\n\nAt Ambon, the boat acquired a monkey as a mascot. He was named Peter and had lost his tail. Peter remained with the crew until \"Krait\" finished her service and was towed to Morotai. She was then sailed to Labuan, where she was sold and handed over to the British Borneo Company and where Able Seaman Robert Harry Easom of Perth kept its ensign as a souvenir. That ensign is now on display at the Australian War Memorial.\n\nAfter its sale, \"Krait\" was operated off Borneo until she was purchased for use as an Australian Royal Volunteer Coastal Patrol vessel in 1964. On Anzac Day 1964, \"Krait\" was formally dedicated as a war memorial by the governor of NSW. A plaque was affixed to the wheelhouse and is shown below. She was then acquired by the Australian War Memorial in 1985 and was lent to the Australian National Maritime Museum, where she has been displayed to the public since 1988.\n\nFrom 2015, plans for restoration had been made, and as of 2017, this work has begun.\n\nSince the success of \"Krait\" on Operation Jaywick, Australian Commando Unit vessels have traditionally used the names of venomous snakes. This tradition continues with \"Red Viper\" and \"Coral Snake\" as current examples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2448153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2448153", "title": "Memorandum opinion", "text": "Memorandum opinion\n\nUnder United States legal practice, a memorandum opinion is usually unpublished and cannot be cited as precedent. It is formally defined as: \"[a] unanimous appellate opinion that succinctly states the decision of the court; an opinion that briefly reports the court's conclusion, usu. without elaboration because the decision follows a well-established legal principle or does not relate to any point of law.\" \n\nGenerally, memorandum opinions follow ordinary rules, including the application of precedent and the rule of \"stare decisis\". However, in many courts (for example, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York), the style of analysis in memorandum opinions is much more concise and conclusory than it would be in an opinion intended for publication. That is, long strings of case citations are often inserted without explication or analysis of the applicability of the cited cases. In contrast, the California Constitution requires that all appellate decisions in California must be decided \"in writing with reasons stated,\" which the Supreme Court of California has interpreted as requiring detailed written opinions even in frivolous cases. Nonetheless, the Courts of Appeal have the discretion to certify opinions in frivolous cases for publication.\n\nMemorandum opinions are often issued in areas of well-settled law or where a particular set of facts may create imprudent case law.\n\n"}
{"id": "38853982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38853982", "title": "Metis Classification", "text": "Metis Classification\n\nMetis is a Dewey-free library classification system developed and implemented in 2011 by Sue Giffard, Tali Balas Kaplan, Jennifer Still, and Andrea Dolloff, the librarians at the Ethical Culture School in New York City. The system places the thinking, interests, information needs and information-seeking behavior of children at its center. It was developed as an alternative to the Dewey Decimal Classification System and the practices which customarily accompany that system in school and public libraries in the United States: namely, the alphabetical arrangement of fiction by author, and the frequent arrangement of biographies in alphabetical order by biographee. The Metis system (named for Metis the Titan who was the mother of Athena in Greek mythology) was designed to encourage productive independent browsing by children, as well as allowing for successful catalog searching by elementary school students.\n\nMetis draws on a number of sources for its foundational ideas and approach. A number of authors have stressed the importance of browsing potential in a successful classification system, notably A.C. Foskett and Robert Losee. This suggested the need to investigate browsing and information-seeking behavior. Similarly, Thomas's contention that in constructing a classification system one needed to \"use communally accepted patterns of subject order and relationships\" showed a need to investigate children's modes of categorizing information. Linda Cooper's work was extremely influential in this regard.\nFrom a more general education perspective, the work in devising Metis was deeply influenced by the fact that the Ethical Culture School library is part of a progressive elementary school, where children's developmental needs are given a central importance.\nAt the level of library practice, Metis was influenced by the work done at the Rangeview Public Library, the Markham Public Library, the Children's Department at the Darien Library, and Lyn Donbroski's article about innovations at the East Sussex County Library in the early 1980s.\n\nThe stated aims of the system (introduction to Metis schedules) are that it is child-centered and flexible. The 26 main categories and their accompanying sub-categories were devised with reference to the research of Linda Cooper, in her investigations of the categorizing behavior of children from Kindergarten through Grade 4.\nThe system dispenses with coded call numbers, except that the order of the 26 main categories are fixed in alphabetical order using a single alphabetical letter, e.g. A: Facts; B: Machines, C: Science, D: Nature, E: Animals, F: Pets, etc. Aside from this, the call numbers use whole language. Except for chapter book fiction, memoirs, graphic novels and poetry, author cutters are mostly dispensed with. The sub-categories are almost all in alphabetical order.\n\nWhile in the middle grades room, where fiction comes in the form of chapter books, fiction is divided according to genre, in the lower grades room, with its wealth of picture story books, division by topic is used in addition to genre. Thus, the books about dogs are shelved together regardless of whether they are fiction or nonfiction, as are the books about bullying or trucks or seasons. Colorblind-friendly color coding is used on the spines of the books to denote clearly whether that book is fiction or nonfiction.\n\nSome of the main categories differ markedly from the Dewey main classes. One example is Making Stuff, which includes anything which children like to do for fun, including arts and crafts, collections, games, cooking, putting on plays, and magic tricks. Another is Mystery, which includes nonfiction on codes, crime, optical illusions, puzzles, spies and unexplained mysteries such as the Bermuda Triangle, as well as mystery and detective fiction. In these categories, one can see the principle of user interest at the center of the system.\n\nThe system also includes a visual aspect, whereby each book in a main category has a visual label that reflects that category, in addition to a call number consisting of words.\n\nWhile there are aspects of the system that were devised specifically for the layout and geography of the original library, the system is flexible, so that it can be changed to accommodate different layouts and set-ups, as well as differences in users and collection emphases.\n\nThese main categories have sub-categories which are laid out in full in the Metis Categorization Schedules\nA. Facts/Concepts\nB. Machines\nC. Science\nD. Nature\nE. Animals\nF. Pets\nG. Making Stuff\nH. Arts\nI. Sports\nJ. Ourselves\nK. Community\nL. USA (Then and Now)\nM. Countries (Then and Now)\nN. Languages\nO. Traditions\nP. Tales\nQ. Verse\nR. Humor\nS. Mystery\nT. Adventure\nU. Scary\nV. Graphic\nW. Memoir\nX. Fiction/Picture Stories\nY. Beginning Fiction\nZ. Middle Fiction\n\nAn article written by the creators of the system and published in \"School Library Journal\" in their October 2012 issue prompted a variety of responses, from criticism that the system was \"dumbing down\" libraries, and concern that students would not be able to find their way in other libraries, to positive responses, particularly from some librarians who had already tried alternative classification. In addition, a Twitter chat on the topic hosted by \"School Library Journal\" prompted a lively discussion of the issues and a wide variety of responses. \nIn the Ethical Culture School library, librarians reported an immediate increase in circulation, particularly in non-curricular areas: 87% in the arts and crafts section, Making Stuff, for example, over the first three months after implementation of the new system. In their article in \"School Library Journal\", they reported a positive response from faculty and parents as well as students. Nancy Daigle has successfully replicated this system in her central Vermont library at Thatcher Brook Primary School, serving students in a preK-4 school. (http://tbpsmetis.blogspot.com/) 97 % of her students reported that they had, on occasion, been unable to find what they were looking for in the library, so she re-catalogued the collection to this system based on topic and genre. Children do not typically learn decimals until the end of fourth grade (pre-k 4 school). METIS, adapted from the system used at the Ethical Culture School in New York, eliminates the Dewey Decimal System!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28175444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28175444", "title": "Muhajir people", "text": "Muhajir people\n\nThe Muhajir people (also spelled Mahajir and Mohajir) () are Muslim immigrants, of multi-ethnic origin, and their descendants, who migrated from various regions of India after the independence of Pakistan. Although many of them speak different languages at the native level, they are primarily identified as native Urdu speakers and hence are called Urdu-speaking people. The term Muhajirs generally refers to those Muslim migrants from India who settled in urban Sindh.\n\nThe Urdu term \"muhājir\" () comes from the Arabic \"muhājir\" (), meaning an \"immigrant\", and the term is associated in early Islamic history to the migration of Muslims. After the independence of Pakistan, a significant number of Muslims emigrated or were out-migrated from territory that remained India. In the aftermath of partition, a huge population exchange occurred between the two newly formed states. In the riots which preceded the partition in the Punjab region, between 200,000 and 2 000,000 people were killed in the retributive genocide. UNHCR estimates 14 million Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims were displaced during the partition; it was the largest mass migration in human history.\n\nMost of those migrants who settled in the Punjab province of Pakistan came from present day Indian states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi while others were from Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and the United Provinces. \n\nMigrants who moved to the Sindh province of Pakistan came from what then were the British Indian provinces of Bombay, Central Provinces, Berar, and the United Provinces, as well as the princely states of Hyderabad, Baroda, Kutch and the Rajputana Agency. Most of these migrants settled in the towns and cities of Sindh, such as Karachi, Hyderabad, Sukkur and Mirpurkhas. \n\nMany who spoke Urdu, or dialects of the language such as Dakhani, Khariboli, Awadhi, Bhojpuri, Mewati, Sadri, Marwari, and Haryanvi and became commonly known as Muhajirs. Over a period of a few decades, these disparate groups sharing the common experience of migration, and political opposition to the military regime of Ayub Khan and his civilian successor Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto evolved or assimilated into a distinct ethnic grouping.\n\nPrior to 1857, British territories were controlled by the East India Company. The company maintained the fiction of running the territories on behalf of the Mughal empire.The crushing defeat of Mutineers in 1857 -1858 led to the abolition of the Mughal empire and the British government taking direct control of the Indian territories. In the immediate aftermath of the rebellion, upper-class Muslim were targeted by the British, as some of the leadership for the war came from this community based in areas around Delhi and what is now Uttar Pradesh; thousands of them and their families were shot, hanged or blown by cannon. According to Mirza Ghalib, even women were not spared because the rebel soldiers disguised themselves as women.\n\nThe Pakistan movement, to constitute a separate state comprising the Muslim-majority provinces, was pioneered by the Muslim elite and many notables of the Aligarh Movement. It was initiated in the 19th century when Sir Syed Ahmed Khan expounded the cause of Muslim autonomy in Aligarh. Many Muslim nobles such as nawabs (aristocrats and landed gentry) supported the idea. As the idea spread, it gained great support amongst the Muslim population and in particular the rising middle and upper classes.\n\nThe Muslims launched the movement under the banner of the All India Muslim League and Delhi was its main centre. The headquarters of All India Muslim League (the founding party of Pakistan) was based there since its creation in 1906 in Dhaka (present day Bangladesh). The Muslim League won 90 percent of reserved Muslim seats in the 1946 elections and its demand for the creation of Pakistan received overwhelming popular support among Indian Muslims, especially in those provinces of British India such as U.P. where Muslims were a minority.\n\nThere were three predominant stages of Muslim migration from India to West Pakistan. The first stage lasted from August–November 1947. In this stage of migration the Muslim immigrants originated from East Punjab, Delhi, the four adjacent districts of U.P. and the princely states of Alwar and Bharatpur which are now part of the present day Indian state of Rajasthan. The violence affecting these areas during partition precipitated an exodus of Muslims from these areas to Pakistan. Punjabi Muslims from East Punjab crossed to West Punjab and settled in a culturally and linguistically similar environment. \n\nThe migration to Sindh was of a different nature to that in Punjab as the migrants to Sindh were ethnically heterogenous and were linguistically different to the locals. The migrants were also more educated than the native, and predominantly rural, Sindhi Muslims who had been less educated and less prosperous than the former Sindhi Hindu residents. The migrants, who were urban, also tended to regard the local Sindhis as backwards and subservient to landowners.\n\nPrior to the partition, the majority of urban Sindh's population had been Hindu but after the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the majority of Sindh's Hindus migrated to India, although a substantial number of Hindus did remain in Sindh. 1.1 million Muslims from Uttar Pradesh, Bombay Presidency, Delhi and Rajasthan settled in their place; half in Karachi and the rest across Sindh's other cities. By the 1951 census, the migrants constituted 57 percent of the population of Karachi, 65 percent in Hyderabad and 55 percent in Sukkur. As Karachi was the capital of the new nation, educated urban migrants from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bombay, Bihar and Hyderabad Deccan preferred it as their site of settlement for better access to employment opportunities. The migrants were compensated for their properties lost in India by being granted the evacuee property left behind by the departing Hindus. A sizable community of Malayali Muslims (the Mappila), originally from Kerala in South India, also settled in Karachi. The partition brought about quite exceptional circumstances that facilitated the implementaion of these strategies.\n\nMany Muslim families from India continued migrating to Pakistan throughout the 1950s and even early 1960s. This second stage (December 1947-December 1971) of the migration was from areas in the present-day Indian states of U.P., Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The main destination of these migrants was Karachi and the other urban centres of Sindh.\n\nIn 1959 the International Labour Organisation (ILO) published a report stating that between the period of 1951-1956, a number of 650,000 Muslims from India relocated to West Pakistan. However, Visaria (1969) raised doubts about the authenticity of the claims about Indian Muslim migration to Pakistan, since the 1961 Census of Pakistan did not corroborate these figures. However, the 1961 Census of Pakistan did incorporate a statement suggesting that there had been a migration of 800,000 people from India to Pakistan throughout the previous decade. Of those who had left for Pakistan, most never came back. The Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru conveyed distress about the continued migration of Indian Muslims to West Pakistan:There has...since 1950 been a movement of some Muslims from India to Western Pakistan through the Jodhpur-Sindh via Khokhropar. Normally, traffic between India and West Pakistan was controlled by the permit system. But these Muslims going via Khokhropar went without permits to West Pakistan. From January 1952 to the end of September, 53,209 Muslim emigrants went via Khokhropar...Most of these probably came from the U.P. In October 1952, up to the 14th, 6,808 went by this route. After that Pakistan became much stricter on allowing entry on the introduction of the passport system. From the 15th of October to the end of October, 1,247 went by this route. From the 1st November, 1,203 went via Khokhropar.Indian Muslim migration to West Pakistan continued unabated despite the cessation of the permit system between the two countries and the introduction of the passport system between the two countries. The Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru once again expressed concern at the continued migration of Indian Muslims to West Pakistan in a communication to one of his chief ministers (dated 1, December 1953):A fair number of Muslims cross over to Pakistan from India, via Rajasthan and Sindh daily. Why do these Muslims cross over to Pakistan at the rate of three to four thousand a month? This is worth enquiring into, because it is not to our credit that this should be so. Mostly they come from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan or Delhi. It is evident that they do not go there unless there is some fear or pressure on them. Some may go in the hope of employment there. But most of them appear to feel that there is no great future for them in India. I have already drawn your attention to difficulties in the way of Government service. Another reason, I think, is the fear of Evacuee Property Laws [EPL]. I have always considered these laws both in India and Pakistan as most iniquitous. In trying to punish a few guilty persons, we punish or injure large numbers of perfectly innocent people...the pressure of the Evacuee Property Laws applies to almost all Muslims in certain areas of India. They cannot easily dispose of their property or carry on trade for fear that the long arm of this law might hold them down in its grip. It is this continuing fear that comes in the way of normal functioning and normal business and exercises a powerful pressure on large numbers of Muslims in India, especially in the North and the West.In 1952 the passport system was introduced for travel purposes between the two countries. This made it possible for Indian Muslims to legally move to Pakistan. Pakistan still required educated and skill workers to absorb into its economy at the time, due to relatively low levels of education in the regions which became part of Pakistan. As late as December 1971, the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi was authorized to issue documents to educationally qualified Indians to migrate to Pakistan. The legal route was taken by unemployed but educated Indian Muslims seeking better fortunes, however poorer Muslims from India continued to go illegally via the Rajasthan-Sindh border until the 1965 India-Pakistan war when that route was shut. After the conclusion of the 1965 war, most Muslims who wanted to go to Pakistan had to go there via the India-East Pakistani border. Once reaching Dhaka, most made their way to the final destination-Karachi. However, not all managed to reach West Pakistan from East Pakistan.\n\nA large number of Urdu-speaking Muslims from Bihar went to East Pakistan after independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. After the formation of Bangladesh in 1971, the Biharis maintained their loyalty to Pakistan and wanted to leave Bangladesh for Pakistan. The majority of these people still await repatriation, however, 178,00 have been repatriated. In 2015, the Pakistani government stated that the remaining 'Stranded Pakistanis' are not its responsibility but rather the responsibility of Bangladesh.\n\nThe third stage which lasted between 1973 and the 1990s was when migration levels of Indian Muslims to Pakistan was reduced to its lowest levels since 1947.\n\nIndian Muslim migration to Pakistan had declined drastically by the 1970s, a trend noticed by the Pakistani authorities. On June 1995, Pakistan's interior minister, Naseerullah Babar, informed the National Assembly that between the period of 1973-1994, as many as 800,000 visitors came from India on valid travel documents. Of these only 3,393 stayed back. In a related trend, intermarriages between Indian and Pakistani Muslims have declined sharply. According to a November 1995 statement of Riaz Khokhar, the Pakistani High Commissioner in New Delhi, the number of cross-border marriages has declined from 40,000 a year in the 1950s and 1960s to barely 300 annually.\n\nThe Muhajirs (Urdu-speakers) of Pakistan were largely settled in the Sindh province, particularly in the province's capital, Karachi, where the Muhajirs were in a majority. As a result of their domination of major Sindhi cities, there had been tensions between Muhajirs and the native Sindhis. The Muhajirs, upon their arrival in Pakistan, soon joined the Punjabi-dominated ruling elite of the new-born country due to their high rates of education and urban background. They possessed the required expertise for running Pakistan's nascent bureaucracy and economy. Although the Muhajirs were, socially, urbane and liberal they sided with the country's religious political parties such as Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan (JUP). \n\nThe dichotomy between the Muhajirs’ social and political dispositions was a result of the sense of insecurity that the community felt in a country where the majority of its inhabitants were ‘natives.’ Lacking the historical and cultural roots of native Pakistani ethnicities, the Mohajirs backed the state's project of constructing a homogenous national identity that repulsed ethnic sentiment. The Mohajirs also echoed the views of the religious parties that eschewed pluralism and ethnic identities and propagated a holistic national unity based on the commonality of the Islamic faith followed by the majority of Pakistanis. By the time of Pakistan's first military regime (Ayub Khan, 1958), the Muhajirs had already begun to lose their influence in the ruling elite. With the Baloch, Bengali and Sindhi nationalists distancing themselves from the state's narratives of nationhood, Ayub (a poor pathan tribalfrom what is now named Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province), slowly began to pull the impoverished Pakhtuns into the mainstream areas of the economy and politics. This caused the Muhajirs’ to agitate against the Ayub dictatorship from the early 1960s onwards.\n\nMuhajirs had decisively lost their place in the ruling elite, but they were still an economic force to reckon with (especially in urban Sindh). When a Sindhi, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, became the country's head of state in December 1971, the Muhajirs feared that they would be further side-lined, this time by the economic and political resurgence of Sindhis under Bhutto. In response the Mohajirs enthusiastically participated in the 1977 right-wing movement against the Bhutto regime (which was largely led by the religious parties). The movement was particularly strong among Karachi's middle and lower-middle-classes (and aggressively backed by industrialists, traders and the shopkeepers).\n\nThe Muhajirs (Urdu-speakers) of Pakistan were largely settled in the Sindh province, particularly in the province's capital, Karachi, where the Muhajirs were in a majority. As a result of their domination of major Sindhi cities, there had been tensions between Muhajirs and the native Sindhis. The Muhajirs, upon their arrival in Pakistan, soon joined the Punjabi-dominated ruling elite of the new-born country due to their high rates of education and urban background. They possessed the required expertise for running Pakistan's nascent bureaucracy and economy. Although the Muhajirs were, socially, urbane and liberal they sided with the country's religious political parties such as Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan (JUP).\n\nUpon arrival in Pakistan, the Muhajirs did not assert themselves as a separate ethnic identity but were at the forefront of trying to construct an Islamic Pakistani identity. Muhajirs dominated the bureaucracy of Sindh in the early years of the Pakistani state, largely due to their higher levels of educational attainment. Prior to the partition, Hindus dominated the professions of lawyers, teachers and tradesmen in Sindh and the vacancies they left behind were filled up by the Muhajirs.\n\nMany Urdu-speaking people had higher education and civil service experience from working for the British Raj and Muslim princely states. Out of the 101 Muslims in India's civil service, 95 chose to leave India. A third of those civil servants were Punjabis but there were many Muhajirs among them too. From 1947 to 1958, Urdu-speaking Muhajirs held more jobs in the Government of Pakistan than their proportion in the country's population (3.3%). In 1951, of the 95 senior civil services jobs, 33 were held by Urdu-speaking people and 40 by Punjabis. The Muhajirs also had a strong hold over the economy, 36 of the 42 largest private companies belonged to Muhajirs, mainly those from the Indian state of Gujarat.\n\nGradually, as education became more widespread, Sindhis and Pashtuns, as well as other ethnic groups, started to take their fair share of the pool in the bureaucracy. But even by the early 1960s, 34.5 percent of Pakistan's civil servants were those who had not been born in the territory comprising Pakistan in 1947, many of them were born in the United Provinces.\n\nOn 27 October 1958, General Ayub Khan stage a coup and imposed martial law across Pakistan. The dichotomy between the Muhajirs’ social and political dispositions was a result of the sense of insecurity that the community felt in a country where the majority of its inhabitants were ‘natives.’ Lacking the historical and cultural roots of native Pakistani ethnicity, the Mohajirs backed the state's project of constructing a homogeneous national identity that repulsed ethnic sentiment. The Mohajirs also echoed the views of the religious parties that eschewed pluralism and ethnic identities and propagated a holistic national unity based on the commonality of the Islamic faith followed by the majority of Pakistanis. By the time of Pakistan's first military regime (Ayub Khan, 1958), the Muhajirs had already begun to lose their influence in the ruling elite. With the Baloch, Bengali and Sindhi nationalists distancing themselves from the state's narratives of nationhood, Ayub (who hailed from what is now the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province), slowly began to pull the Pakhtuns into the mainstream areas of the economy and politics. This caused the Muhajirs’ to agitate against the Ayub dictatorship from the early 1960s onwards.\n\nThe percentage of Urdu-speaking people in the civil service declined while the percentage of Pashtuns in it increased. In the presidential election of 1965, the Muslim League split in two factions: the Muslim League (Fatima Jinnah) supported Fatima Jinnah, the younger sister of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, while the Convention Muslim League supported General Ayub Khan. The Urdu-speaking people had supported the Muslim League before the independence of Pakistan in 1947 and now supported the Muslim League of Fatima Jinnah. The electoral fraud of the 1965 presidential election and a post-election triumphal march by Gohar Ayub Khan, the son of General Ayub Khan, set off ethnic clashes between Pashtuns and Urdu-speaking people in Karachi on 4 January 1965.\n\nFour years later on 24 March 1969, President Ayub Khan directed a letter to General Yahya Khan, inviting him to deal with the tense political situation in Pakistan. On 26 March 1969, General Yahya appeared on national television and proclaimed martial law over the country. Yahya subsequently abrogated the 1962 Constitution, dissolved parliament, and dismissed President Ayub's civilian officials.\n\nThe Pakistani general election, 1970 on 7 December 1970, Awami League won the elections. The Urdu-speaking people voted for the Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan and Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan. Muhajirs had decisively lost their place in the ruling elite, but they were still an economic force to reckon with (especially in urban Sindh). When a Sindhi, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, became the country's head of state in December 1971, the Muhajirs feared that they would be further side-lined, this time by the economic and political resurgence of Sindhis under Bhutto. \n\nThe Pakistan Peoples Party government nationalization the financial industry, educational institutions and industry. The nationalization of Pakistan's educational institutions, financial institutions and industry in 1972 by Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto of Pakistan Peoples Party impacted the Muhajirs hardest as their educational institutions, commerce and industries were nationalized without any compensation. Subsequently, the quota system was introduced and this limited their access to education and employment. \n\nIn 1972 language riots broke out between Sindhis and Urdu-speakers after the passage of the \"Teaching, Promotion and use of Sindhi Language\" bill in July 1972 by the Sindh Assembly; which declared Sindhi as the only official language of Sindh. Due to the clashes, Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto compromised and announced that Urdu and Sindhi would both be official languages of Sindh. The making of Sindhi as an equal language to Urdu for official purposes frustrated the Urdu-speaking people as they did not speak the Sindhi language.\n\nIn the 1977 Pakistani general election, Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan and Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan joined in a coalition named the Pakistan National Alliance. The Mohajirs enthusiastically participated in the 1977 right-wing movement against the Bhutto regime (which was largely led by the religious parties). The movement was particularly strong among Karachi's middle and lower-middle-classes (and aggressively backed by industrialists, traders and the shopkeepers). The Urdu-speaking people voted mostly for the Pakistan National Alliance. The alleged electoral fraud by Pakistan Peoples Party caused protests across the country. On 5 July 1977, Chief of Army Staff General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq led a coup d'état against Bhutto and imposed martial law.\n\nZain Noorani, a prominent member of the Memon community, was appointed as Minister of State for Foreign affairs with the status of a Federal Minister in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57868390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57868390", "title": "NARCIS (Netherlands)", "text": "NARCIS (Netherlands)\n\nNARCIS (National Academic Research and Collaboration Information System) of the Netherlands is an online portal for searching Dutch scientific research publications and data. As of July 2018, NARCIS indexes 268,989 data sets and 1,707,486 publications, including a significant proportion of open access works. \n\nIt started in 2004 as a project of the Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen, Information Centre of the Radboud University of Nijmegen (METIS), Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, and Vereniging van Universiteiten. Since 2011 the (DANS) operates NARCIS from headquarters in The Hague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1109348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1109348", "title": "National Security Study Memorandum 200", "text": "National Security Study Memorandum 200\n\nNational Security Study Memorandum 200: Implications of Worldwide Population Growth for U.S. Security and Overseas Interests (NSSM200) was completed on December 10, 1974 by the United States National Security Council under the direction of Henry Kissinger.\n\nIt was adopted as official US policy by US President Gerald Ford in November 1975. It was classified for a while but was obtained by researchers in the early 1990s.\n\nThe basic thesis of the memorandum was that population growth in the least developed countries (LDCs) is a concern to US national security, because it would tend to risk civil unrest and political instability in countries that had a high potential for economic development. The policy gives \"paramount importance\" to population control measures and the promotion of contraception among 13 populous countries to control rapid population growth which the US deems inimical to the socio-political and economic growth of these countries and to the national interests of the United States since the \"U.S. economy will require large and increasing amounts of minerals from abroad\" and the countries can produce destabilizing opposition forces against the US.\n\nIt recommends for US leadership to \"influence national leaders\" and that \"improved world-wide support for population-related efforts should be sought through increased emphasis on mass media and other population education and motivation programs by the UN, USIA, and USAID.\"\n\nThirteen countries are named in the report as particularly problematic with respect to US security interests: India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Turkey, Nigeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, Mexico, Colombia, and Brazil. The countries are projected to create 47 percent of all world population growth.\n\nIt also raises the question of whether the US should consider preferential allocation of surplus food supplies to states deemed constructive in use of population control measures.\n\nThe paper takes a look at worldwide demographic population trends as projected in 1974.\n\nIt is divided into two major sections: an analytical section and policy recommendations.\n\nThe analytical section discusses projected world demographic trends and their influence on world food supply, minerals, and fuel. It looks at the relation between economic development in the least developed nations and investigates the implications of world population pressures on US national security.\n\nThe policy recommendations is divided into two sections. A US population strategy and action to create conditions for fertility decline. A major concern reiterated in the paper concerns the effect of population on starvation and famine.\n\n\"Growing populations will have a serious impact on the need for food especially in the poorest, fastest growing LDCs.[least developed countries] While under normal weather conditions and assuming food production growth in line with recent trends, total world agricultural production could expand faster than population, there will nevertheless be serious problems in food distribution and financing, making shortages, even at today's poor nutrition levels, probable in many of the larger more populous LDC regions. Even today 10 to 20 million people die each year due, directly or indirectly, to malnutrition. Even more serious is the consequence of major crop failures which are likely to occur from time to time.\n\n\"The most serious consequence for the short and middle term is the possibility of massive famines in certain parts of the world, especially the poorest regions. World needs for food rise by 2.5 percent or more per year (making a modest allowance for improved diets and nutrition) at a time when readily available fertilizer and well-watered land is already largely being utilized. Therefore, additions to food production must come mainly from higher yields.\n\n\"Countries with large population growth cannot afford constantly growing imports, but for them to raise food output steadily by 2 to 4 percent over the next generation or two is a formidable challenge.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40625387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40625387", "title": "Nuzi texts", "text": "Nuzi texts\n\nThe Nuzi texts are ancient documents found during an excavation of Nuzi, an ancient Mesopotamian city southwest of Kirkuk in modern Al Ta'amim Governorate of Iraq, located near the Tigris river. The site consists of one medium-sized multiperiod tell and two small single period mounds. The texts are mainly legal and business documents. They have also been viewed as evidence for the age and veracity of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Patriarchal age, but this is no longer widely accepted.\n\nTablets from the site began appearing back as far as 1896, but the first serious archaeological efforts only began in 1925 after Gertrude Bell noticed tablets appearing in the markets of Baghdad. The dig was mainly worked by Edward Chiera, Robert Pfeiffer, and Richard Starr under the auspices of the Iraq Museum and the Baghdad School of the American Schools of Oriental Research and later the Harvard University and Fogg Art Museum. Excavations continued through 1931. The site has 15 occupation levels. The hundreds of tablets and other finds recovered were published in a series of volumes. More finds continue to be published to this day.\n\nTo date, around 5000 tablets are known, mostly held at the Oriental Institute, the Harvard Semitic Museum and the Iraq Museum in Baghdad. Many are routine legal and business documents and about one quarter concern the business transactions of a single family. The vast majority of finds are from the Hurrian period during the second millennium BC with the remainder dating back to the town's founding during the Akkadian Empire. An archive contemporary to the Hurrian archive at Nuzi has been excavated from the \"Green Palace\" at the site of Tell al-Fakhar, southwest of Nuzi. These tablets have been described as showing parallels between the Bible and Hurrian culture such as making a slave an heir and using a surrogate for a barren wife. Writing in \"The Oxford History of the Biblical World\" Wayne T. Pitard says \"The appearance of Late Bronze Age parallels to certain marriage, inheritance, and family religious customs in Genesis cannot be used as evidence that such stories preserve ancient traditions of the second millennium, since most of these customs continued into the first millennium BCE when the Genesis narratives were written down. So the Nuzi texts have a limited, largely illustrative function.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54485098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54485098", "title": "Oxford Bibliographies Online", "text": "Oxford Bibliographies Online\n\nOxford Bibliographies Online (OBO), also known as Oxford Bibliographies, is a web-based compendium of peer-reviewed annotated bibliographies and short encyclopedia entries maintained by Oxford University Press.\n\nOxford Bibliographies Online launched in 2010 following 18 months of research by Oxford University Press (OUP) on the way students and scholars accessed information. According to OUP, learning on a new topic was often hampered and confused by an overabundance of information that left people without a clear starting point.\n\nThe launch version of Oxford Bibliographies Online covered four subject areas – Classics, Social Work, Islamic Studies, and Criminology – and cost US$29.95 per month to access for institutional subscribers. By 2017 it had grown to more than 30 subject areas. At its debut, it was described as \"an Anti-Google\" and a more authoritative and trustworthy alternative to \"crowdsourced knowledge repositories like Wikipedia\".\n\nOxford Bibliographies Online is segregated into several dozen subject areas, each curated by an editor-in-chief and an editorial board composed of \"15 to 20\" scholars of that subject. Subject areas are, in turn, divided into an expanding number of entries, each of which is authored by a member of the editorial board and subject to a process of peer review. Each entry provides a brief, encyclopedic overview of a given subject, followed by an annotated bibliography of the key literature on that topic. According to Oxford University Press, entries are reviewed annually and updated as necessary. New entries are added monthly.\n\nLibraries can selectively subscribe to all or certain subject areas, allowing their patrons to access those sections to which the institution has purchased a subscription. In the United Kingdom, for instance, public library patrons can access the Victorian Literature and British and Irish Literature subject areas of Oxford Bibliographies Online by using their library card as a log-on credential if their library subscribes. Syracuse University, meanwhile, subscribes to the Atlantic History, Biblical Studies, Buddhism, Classics, Communication, Hinduism, International Relations, Islamic Studies, Music, Philosophy, Public Health, Renaissance and Reformation, Sociology, and Victorian Literature subject areas. According to Oxford University Press, pricing is based on the size and type of the library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4366506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4366506", "title": "Perry v Truefitt", "text": "Perry v Truefitt\n\nPerry v Truefitt (1842) 6 Beav. 66 is a famous English case where the tort of passing off was first articulated. Leathart made a hair treatment product. He had shown the mixing process to Perry, a perfumer and hair-dresser, who decided to call the mixture \"Medicated Mexican Balm\". Perry marketed the mixture under the title \"Perry's Medicated Mexican Balm\". Truefitt, one of Perry's competitors, made a product that was very similar to Perry's mixture, which he marketed it under the name \"Truefitt's Medicated Mexican Balm\", and used bottles and labels that looked like Perry's product. Perry filed a bill against Truefitt, arguing that the name \"Medicated Mexican Balm\" was valuable to his business and that he should have exclusive right to prevent others from using it. The Court denied Perry the right to the name. However, Lord Longdale held that misrepresentation can be grounds for an injunction, stating that \"a man is not to sell his own goods under the pretence that they are the goods of another man\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27491670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27491670", "title": "Pornography: A Thriller", "text": "Pornography: A Thriller\n\nPornography: A Thriller is a 2009 American mystery/thriller film, written and directed by David Kittredge.\n\n\"Pornography: A Thriller\" is a non-linear story in three parts, all revolving around the disappearance of fictional adult gay film actor Mark Anton (Jared Grey). The first act depicts Anton's final days in 1995, the second is about writer Michael Castigan (Matthew Montgomery) as he searches for the truth in 2009 about what happened to Anton, and the third revolves around 2009 adult film actor Matt Stevens's (Pete Scherer) attempt to make \"The Mark Anton Story\", based in part on his dreams of what happened to Anton.\n\nThe film uses an unconventional structure, with actors playing multiple roles in different sections, and uses dream logic to tell its story through a subjective point of view. Because of this, it has been compared to the work of David Lynch (most notably \"Lost Highway\" and \"Mulholland Drive\") and David Cronenberg (notably \"Videodrome\").\n\nKittredge says about the structure, \"We wanted to replicate the dream logic of a nightmare. So even though we don’t spell everything out for the audience, the film is still a complete whole and has its own fully formed arc that’s hopefully a satisfying whole.\"\n\n\nThe film was shot in 16 days for under $200,000. And although much of the film takes place in New York City and Brooklyn, it was mostly shot in and around Los Angeles.\n\nThe film was shot primarily with Panasonic HVX200 cameras. One was outfitted with a PS Technik adapter, which gave the image a filmic depth of field and grain that emulated 16mm. There were a variety of other cameras used as well in different parts (mostly in a \"practical\" fashion, denoting footage that was shot in the story of the film), including the Panasonic DVX100a, a Sony Handycam, and an 80s-era Sony Video 8 camcorder (featured prominently in the film).\n\nThe 5.1 sound mix was done by Sonicpool in Hollywood and the HD color-correct and finishing was done at Postworks, New York.\n\n\"Pornography: A Thriller\" premiered at Newfest: the New York LGBT Film Festival in June 2009. It played at over 25 film festivals around the world, including Outfest, Frameline, Philadelphia QFest, and Reeling Chicago.\n\nThe film was theatrically released in the US on April 13, 2010, at the Cinema Village in New York City. The film was released theatrically in Germany by Bildkraft on July 9, 2010, and the UK by Peccadillo Pictures on August 27.\n\nThe film was released on DVD and iTunes in the United States by Wolfe Video July 13, 2010. The DVD features ten deleted or extended scenes, a commentary track featuring writer/director David Kittredge, producer Sean Abley and actors Matthew Montgomery, Pete Scherer and Jared Grey, and a behind-the-scenes featurette called \"Smile For the Camera\".\n\nDigitally, the film was released in the United States on DVD and iTunes on August 30, 2010. The film was released on DVD in France by Optimale on August 31, 2010. Peccadillo Pictures also launched an aggressive online campaign for the film in the guise of a fake \"snuff film\" website, based on the plot points about a mysterious videotape and symbol; the site featured recut snippets of the film and spread virally.\n\nThe world television premiere on Logo Network was October 31, 2010.\n\n\"Pornography\" was very well received at several film festivals, and won awards at two.\n\nCritics in the press, however, had polarized responses. \"Kind of pretentious... Kind of amazing, too,\" was the summation in New York's \"L Magazine\"., who also named it \"The Citizen Kane of Gay Porn Ghost Stories\". \"Reverse Shot\" lauded the \"well placed\" plot twists and \"nicely paced\" mystery, saying that it was \"impressively committed to its own vision and logic\". However, the review also calls the film \"unsatisfying\" and \"ill-conceived.\" \"The Village Voice\" called it \"Ambitiously layered and almost completely incoherent\"; \"Unabashedly arty and impressively shot\"; \"undermined by its awkward combination of campy horror\", and \"strangely unchecked\" warnings about gay pornography. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" was mostly negative: the final line in the review is \"Hampered by schematic characterizations, weak performances, sluggish pacing, an overly dense structure and propensity for self-indulgent affectations, \"Pornography: A Thriller\" ultimately is neither sexy nor thrilling.\"\n\nHowever, Chuck Wilson of \"LA Weekly\" called the film \"a crazily ambitious debut thriller\" and \"\"Pornography\" marks Kittredge as filmmaker with a strong mind and a gift for drawing full-bodied performances from his actors\". Tirdad Derakhshani of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" named it \"a deeply affecting and disturbing thriller that has earned Kittredge comparisons to David Lynch and David Cronenberg.\" Matthew Sorrento's positive review in \"Film Threat\" states \"When handled well, dread can extend far beyond our conscious need for order – Lovecraft himself held that our fear is strongest when we fear the unknown. \"Pornography\" approaches this conceit without the timidity of lesser efforts.\" He ends with \"I recommend all fans of the bizarre have a look.\"\n\nCritics generally recognized Kittredge's debt to Lynch and the \"horror-noir\" oeuvre, although characterizations ranged from \"little too heavily\" to \"obsessed\".\n\nThe Rotten Tomatoes website shows a Tomatometer aggregate score of 29% from 7 critics. The Audience Rating stands at 2.4 stars out of 5.\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n"}
{"id": "46508697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46508697", "title": "Pseudotranslation", "text": "Pseudotranslation\n\nIn literature, a pseudotranslation is a text written as if it had been translated from a foreign language, even though no foreign language original exists. The concept of a pseudotranslation was initially proposed by Israeli scholar Gideon Toury in \"Descriptive Translation Studies–and Beyond\" (1995). The technique allows authors to provide more insight into the culture of the work's setting by presupposing that the reader is unfamiliar with the work's cultural setting, opening the work to a wider world audience.\n\nWriting a pseudotranslation involves using features that usually indicate to a reader that the text is a translation. As some translators have argued, pseudotranslations can be a way of publishing literature that is stylistically different or critical.\" Scholars such as Gideon Toury also note that readers are more likely to accept texts that differ from the norm if they are culturally distant.\n\nMany works of science fiction and fantasy can be regarded as pseudotranslations from nonexistent languages. J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" explicitly claims to have been translated from the ancient languages of Middle-earth, while Gene Wolfe, in the afterword to its first volume, claims that \"The Book of the New Sun\" series is translated \"from a language that has yet to achieve existence\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23146846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23146846", "title": "Shelburne Railroad Station and Freight Shed", "text": "Shelburne Railroad Station and Freight Shed\n\nThe Shelburne Railroad Station and Freight Shed are two exhibit buildings at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont.\n\nIn 1890 Rutland Railroad Station President Dr. William Seward Webb commissioned the building of the Railroad Station near the center of Shelburne village to conveniently serve passengers on the Central Vermont and Rutland Railroads.\n\nDesigned by Robert Henderson Robertson, architect of the Vanderbilt-Webb estate on Shelburne Farms, the Railroad Station reflects the popular Shingle Style, which developed out of the Queen Anne (\"see Queen Anne Style architecture)\" and Colonial Revival styles in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. The Shingle Style accentuates the asymmetrical planning and prominent gables common to Colonial and Queen Anne Revival structures, while the overhanging eaves, eyebrow windows, and the obligatory shingle siding blanket the structure’s exterior to emphasize its fluid, continuous form. In the case of the Railroad Station, the shingled roof, which extends from the chimney peak to the edge of the overhanging porch, dominates the structure and unifies the building. Iterations of the Shingle Style became common in the design of wealthy Northeasterners’ summer \"cottages,\" such as the house at Shelburne Farms. In applying the Shingle Style to the Railroad Station, Robertson guaranteed stylistic consistency between the station and his near-by Vanderbilt-Webb estate.\n\nRobertson originally divided the interior of the Railroad Station into individual waiting rooms for men and women with the stationmaster’s office in between. In 1953, when the Rutland Railroad discontinued passenger service to Shelburne, Dr. Webb’s son, Vanderbilt Webb, and son-in-law, Cyril Jones, gave the station to Shelburne Museum. The Museum moved the station to its present site in 1959 and renovated the building, restoring the interior to Robertson’s original plan in the process. That year the Museum constructed the adjacent Freight Shed, which mimics the Railroad Station stylistically and reflects the type of outbuildings that every railroad would have maintained.\n\nRailroads brought great changes in commerce and communications to New England in the second half of the nineteenth century. Before the advent of railroads, New Englanders depended on the region’s lakes and rivers and the seacoast as their primary avenues of travel. Traveling inland proved difficult over roads that were muddy in spring, dusty and rutted in summer and fall, and littered with tree stumps year-round. Beginning in the late 1840s railroads brought new settlers to Vermont and helped the state’s fledgling dairy industry flourish by providing access to markets for milk, butter, and cheese. Railroads connected once-remote New England communities to the rest of the country, improving mail delivery and bringing newspapers from Boston and New York City the next day instead of weeks later.\n\nWilliam Seward Webb served as president of the Wagner Palace Car Company and the Rutland Railroad at the turn of the twentieth century. The Shelburne Railroad Station, now at the Museum, was constructed for Webb to serve the town and his estate at Shelburne Farms. Today it houses part of the Museum’s collection of railroad equipment and memorabilia. The communication devices displayed range from the simple message hoops and \"high-speed delivery fork,\" to technological innovations like the telegraph and telephone. Other items in the collection include historic photographs and locomotive portraits, maps of the rail network in Vermont and the United States in the nineteenth century, broadsides, and timetables for Vermont railroads, and models of early locomotives.\n\nThe Museum’s collection also includes a large group of railroad lanterns and glass globes from railroads around the northeast. Railroad lanterns served as a method of communication between conductors, brakemen, signalmen, and engineers. Also in the collection are track-setting equipment, semaphore flags, handcars, and other track maintenance equipment. The wooden replica of Old Ironsides, the first locomotive built by the Baldwin Locomotive Works, was first displayed at the Columbia Exposition in Chicago in 1893. Part of the collection is the Gertie Buck, a self-propelled inspection car built and used by the Dewey family on the Woodstock Railway in eastern Vermont in the last decades of the nineteenth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5632114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5632114", "title": "Shiming", "text": "Shiming\n\nThe Shiming (), also known as the Yìyǎ (逸雅; \"I-ya\"; \"Lost Erya\"), is a Chinese dictionary that employed phonological glosses, and \"is believed to date from \"c\". 200 [CE]\" (Miller 1980: 424).\n\nThis dictionary is linguistically invaluable, because it records the pronunciation of an Eastern Han Chinese dialect. Sinologists have used its data to approximate the dates when phonological changes, such as the loss of consonant clusters which took place between Old Chinese and Middle Chinese.\n\nIts 1,502 definitions attempt to establish semantic connections based upon puns between the word being defined and the word defining it, which is often followed with an explanation. For instance (chapter 12: 愛哀也愛乃思念之也), \"Love (\"ài\" 愛 \"love; like; be fond of\") is sorrow (\"āi\" \"哀 sorrow; grief; lament\"). If you love, then you remember fondly.\" The Chinese call these paronomastic glosses \"yīnxùn\" (音訓; \"yin-hsün\"; \"sound teaching\"), meaning \"to use the pronunciation of a word to explain its meaning.\" This semantic association of like-sounding words goes back to the \"Rectification of Names\" (\"zhèngmíng\" 正名, discussed under Confucianism), which hypothesized a connection between names and reality. The \"Shiming\" preface explains this ancient Chinese theory of language.\n\nIn the correspondence of name with reality, there is in each instance that which is right and proper. The common people use names every day, but they do not know the reasons why names are what they are. Therefore I have chosen to record names for heaven and earth, \"yin\" and \"yang\", the four seasons, states, cities, vehicles, clothing and mourning ceremonies, up to and including the vessels commonly used by the people, and have discussed these terms with a view to explaining their origin. (tr. Miller 1993: 424)\nThere is controversy whether this dictionary's author was Liu Xi (劉熙; Liú Xī; Liu Hsi; who flourished around 200 CE) or the more-famous Liu Zhen (劉珍; Liú Zhēn; Liu Chen; who died in 126 CE). The earliest reference to the \"Shiming\" is a criticism in the late 3rd century \"Records of Three Kingdoms\" biography of Wei Zhao (韋昭; 204-273); while in prison, Wei wrote a supplement to Liu Xi's \"Shiming\" because it lacked information on official titles. The next reference is in the mid 5th century \"Hòu Hàn Shū\" biography of Liu Zhen, which notes that he wrote an otherwise unknown \"Shiming\" in 30 chapters (篇). The received text has 8 fascicles/volumes (卷) and 27 sections that the \"Shiming\" preface, written in Liu Xi's name, calls 27 chapters (篇). Bibliographies in official histories simply listed the \"Shiming\" as having eight fascicles without mentioning the number of chapters. The Ming Dynasty scholar Zheng Mingxuan (鄭明選; flourished during Wanli era 1572–1620) questioned the difference in chapters and doubted the book's authenticity. The Qing Dynasty commentator Bi Yuan (畢沅; 1730–1797), who published the 1789 \"Shiming shuzheng\" (釋名疏證; \"Exegetical evidence for \"Shiming\"\") critical edition, believed that the work was begun by Liu Zhen and completed by Liu Xi who added his preface. Another Qing scholar Qian Daxin (錢大昕; 1728–1804) concurred that Liu Xi was the author based upon studies of his students' biographies. Based on internal evidence, Bodman (1954: 4) concludes, \"It is not impossible that Liu Zhen did compose such a work and that Liu Xi might have used some of its material in his own work, but the chance of this having happened is very small.\" The date of the \"Shiming\" is almost as controversial as its author. However, it is undisputed that Liu Xi lived at the end of the Eastern Han Dynasty and was a refugee (who fled to Jiaozhou, present-day Hanoi) from the turmoil between the Yellow Turban Rebellion in 184 and the dynastic collapse in 220 CE.\n\nFrom this table of contents, the \"Shiming\" clearly followed the \"Erya\"s organization into semantically arranged chapters and all their titles begin with the word \"shì\" (\"explain; explaining\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9521786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9521786", "title": "Submittals (construction)", "text": "Submittals (construction)\n\nSubmittals in construction management are shop drawings, material data, samples, and product data. Submittals are required primarily for the architect and engineer to verify that the correct products will be installed on the project.\n\nThis process also gives the architect and sub-consultants the opportunity to select colors, patterns, and types of material that were not chosen prior to completion of the construction drawings. This is not an occasion for the architect to select different materials than specified, but rather to clarify the selection within the quality level indicated in the specification and quantities shown on plans. \n\nFor materials requiring fabrication, such as reinforcing steel and structural steel, the architect and engineer need to verify details furnished by the fabricator as well as the required quantities are met. The details from the fabricator reflect both material availability and production expediency. One tragic example of a submitted alternate design is the suspension rod and bolting details resulting in the Hyatt Regency walkway collapse. The steel fabricator was unable to produce lengths of steel as originally designed and proposed using shorter lengths. The proposed alternate compounded the loads on the bolts, which resulted in the skywalks collapsing on July 17, 1981. 114 people were killed. \n\nThe contractor also uses this information in installation, using dimensions and installation data from the submittal. The construction documents, specifically the technical specifications, require the contractor to submit product data, samples, and shop drawings to the architect and engineer for approval. This is one of the first steps that is taken by the contractor after execution of the construction contract and issuance of the \"Notice to Proceed\". \n\nThe submittal process affects cost, quality, schedule, and project success. On large, commercial projects the submittal process can involve thousands of different materials, fabrications and equipment. Commercial buildings will often have complex pre-fabricated components. These include: elevators, windows, cabinets, air handling units, generators, appliances and cooling towers. These pieces of equipment often require close coordination to ensure that they receive the correct power, fuel, water and structural support. The submittal process gives another level of detail usually not included as part of the design documents. \n\nAn \"approved\" submittal authorizes quantity and quality of a material or an assembly to be released for fabrication and shipment. It ensures that the submittals have been properly vetted before final ordering. In essence, this is the final quality control mechanism before a product arrives on-site. \nThe product data submittal usually consists of the manufacturer’s product information. The information included in this submittal are:\n\n\n\"See the article: Shop drawing.\"\n\nMany products require submission of samples. A sample is a physical portion of the specified product. Some samples are full product samples, such as a brick or section of precast concrete, or a partial sample that indicates color or texture. The product sample is often required when several products are acceptable, to confirm the quality and aesthetic level of the material. The size or unit of sample material usually is specified. \n\nFor some materials, a mock-up or sample panel is necessary. A common example of a sample panel is a wall mock-up. This is a full size mock-up of a wall assembly and can include window, exterior veneers and waterproofing. The mock-up serves as both an aesthetic review, but also provides the contractors the opportunity to field test the assembly before full-scale assembly. The mock up may be required to be tested for water tightness and lateral forces. The mock-up panel might be 10 feet wide by 12 feet high, showing the full wall span from floor to floor. \n\nSamples usually are required for finish selection or approval. Color and textures in the actual product can vary considerably from the color and textures shown in printed material. The printed brochure gives an indication of available colors, but the colors are rendered in printer’s ink, rather than in the actual material. A quality level may be specified, requiring a selection of color and/or texture from sample pieces of the material. Several acceptable manufacturers may be listed in the specification and a level of quality also may be specified. The contractor, subcontractor, or supplier may have a preference for one of these products, based on price, availability, quality, workability, or service. \n\nSamples are usually stored at the jobsite and compared to the material delivered and installed. Comparison of samples with the product received is an important part of project quality control.\n\nProcessing time is required to produce and review submittals, shop drawings, and samples. The procedures can seem very cumbersome and time consuming, however, there are substantial reasons for review steps by all parties. The designer is ultimately responsible for the design of the facility to meet occupancy needs and must ensure that the products being installed are suitable to meet these needs. Any change in material fabrication or quantity needs to be reviewed for its acceptability with the original design. Both the architect, contractor and sub-contractor need to be able to coordinate the installation of the product with other building systems.\n\nEach level must review, add information as necessary, and stamp or seal that the submittal was examined and approved by that party. After the submittal reaches the primary reviewer, it is returned through the same steps, which provides an opportunity for further comment and assures that each party is aware of the approval, partial approval, notes, or rejection. This approval process is cumbersome and time-consuming. However, modern software products can greatly simplify and improve the efficiency.\n\nTypically, the architect will review the submittal for compliance to the requirement in the construction documents. Revisions may be noted on the submittal. Colors and other selection items will be made by the architect during this review. Sometimes the architect will reject the entire submittal and other times will request resubmittal of some of the items. The architect also will make corrections, which normally do not need to be resubmitted, but that do need to be applied to the product. While the architect and engineers review products for performance and design intent, the contractor must review the product for preparation, quantity and installation requirements. \nThe contractor should manage the submittal process just like any other process in the construction cycle. The submittal process requires lead-time consideration to produce the submittal, shop drawing (engineering), review and revise and the shop fabrication period. Careful planning is necessary to ensure that the products are ordered and delivered within the construction schedule, so as not to delay any activities. The contractor must prioritize the submittal process, submitting and obtaining approval for materials needed for the first part of the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "25327722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25327722", "title": "Teutobochus", "text": "Teutobochus\n\nTeutobochus was a legendary giant and king of the Teutons. Large bones discovered in 1613 were claimed to be his skeleton.\n\nIn 1869 W.A. Seaver wrote: \"In times more modern (1613), some masons digging near the ruins of a castle in Dauphiné, in a field which by tradition had long been called 'The Giant's Field,' at a depth of 18 feet discovered a brick tomb 30 feet long, 12 feet wide, and 8 feet high, on which was a gray stone with the words 'Theutobochus Rex' cut thereon. When the tomb was opened they found a human skeleton entire, 25-1/2 feet long, 10 feet wide across the shoulders, and 5 feet deep from the breast to the back. His teeth were about the size of an ox's foot, and his shin-bone measured 4 feet in length.\"\n\nThe bones were displayed in Paris by Pierre Mazurier, a surgeon who claimed to be one of the finders.\n\nAfter the finding of the bones, the legend of the king Teutobochus, which was thought to be the Teuton king defeated by Caius Marius, spread despite analysis by anatomist Jean Riolan the Younger, who ascribed the bones to one of Hannibal's elephants. Three centuries later, the zoologist Henri Marie Ducrotay de Blainville analyzed the bones and concluded they came from a mastodon. Finally in the 1980s, the paleontologist Léonard Ginsburg analyzed a plaster mold from Paris' Muséum national d'histoire naturelle, that came from the giant bones, and identified a deinotherium. The current location of the bones remains unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "46571413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46571413", "title": "The Carniolan Bee", "text": "The Carniolan Bee\n\nThe Carniolan Bee () was the first almanac of poetry in the Slovene language. The first volume was published on 30 April 1830, with subsequent volumes published in 1831, 1832, 1834 and 1848. Its editor was Miha Kastelic, whereas the prominent authors were France Prešeren, Matija Čop and Andrej Smole. The almanac was indended for educated readers and aimed at spreading the Slovene among them.\n"}
{"id": "15182678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15182678", "title": "The Dark Haired Girl", "text": "The Dark Haired Girl\n\nThe Dark Haired Girl is a collection of essays, poems and letters by Philip K. Dick. It was first published by Mark V. Ziesing in 1989.\n\nZiesing considers this the necessary companion volume to the complete collected works of the author. The letters, in particular, provide graphic evidence of Dick's all-too-human qualities within the context of his multiple relationships and/or marriages.\n\n"}
{"id": "12424124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12424124", "title": "The Little Red Book of Acoustics", "text": "The Little Red Book of Acoustics\n\nThe Little Red Book of Acoustics is a small book giving an overview of UK acoustic regulations. The book also gives an introduction to acoustics and acoustic definitions.\n\nThis acoustics book is often used by professionals working in areas where some understanding in acoustics is required such as members of the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health and Town Planners.\n\nThe book is also useful for students undertaking the Institute of Acoustics Diploma and similar courses. \"The Little Red Book of Acoustics\" is one of the most popular books on the subject of acoustics for students and those new to acoustics in the UK.\n\nAdditionally the book provides a handy introduction to acoustics for architects, covering for example, Approved Document E and is available on the RIBA bookshop website as well as the main UK bookshops.\n\nThe book is written by Richard Watson and Owen Downey and published by Blue Tree Acoustics. The second edition is released in September 2008 and is .\n"}
{"id": "39970769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39970769", "title": "The Sibley Guide to Bird Life &amp; Behavior", "text": "The Sibley Guide to Bird Life &amp; Behavior\n\nThe Sibley Guide to Bird Life & Behavior is a book by David Allen Sibley that shows readers \"how birds live and what they do.\" It is different from most field-identification guides that birdwatchers carry around; rather than help identify birds, it helps watchers gain a deeper understanding of the birds they have already identified. Instead of concentrating on individual species, the book summarizes information for families of birds, presenting \"broad patterns\" to help readers interpret what they see. The guide includes nearly 800 of Sibley's paintings.\n\nThe book was first published by Knopfin 2001. In its first nine months, it sold 500,000 copies. A paper back version was released in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "17762769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17762769", "title": "Xplor International", "text": "Xplor International\n\nXplor International also known as The Electronic Document Systems Association is an international trade association specifically focused on the issues of transaction documents. Transaction documents are legally relevant documents that are either printed and mailed or are electronically delivered e.g. bills, bank statements, insurance policies etc. The goal of the organization is to promotes \"best practices for the design, production and delivery of electronic documents.\"\n\nThe acronym XPLOR was derived from \"Xerox Printer Liaison ORganization\", the original association name. Xplor expanded its mission in 1983 to include other vendors' technology and adopted the acronym as the organization's name.\n\nXplor International was founded in 1980 as a trade association specifically for transaction document applications, due to the difference in emphasis on variable data. Originally a user group for the Xerox 9700 laser printer, they reshaped its mission in the early 1980s to address the entire transaction document industry. Hardware companies like IBM, Siemens (later Océ), Hewlett Packard, Pitney Bowes, Bell & Howell, Ricoh, and Xerox have been actively involved as have software companies like Image Sciences (later Docucorp International), Document Sciences, Cincom Systems, GMC Software Technology, Xenos, Crawford Technologies, supported Xplor in order to promote a venue for the issues that are unique to the creation of transaction documents.\n\nIn the 1990s, Xplor began to shift from solely document “printing” to document “printing and presentation”, as transaction documents came to be presented on the Web.\n\nAs of 2018 Xplor hosts an annual conference with presentations on topics such as \"Communication Design, Technologies, and Customer Experience\".\n\nXplor’s membership of users and vendors is worldwide, with approximately 45% of the membership in the early 2000s being outside the US.\n\nXplor manages the Electronic Document Professional (EDP) certification program for people experienced in electronic document systems and/or application development.\n\n\n"}
