{"id": "34793304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34793304", "title": "Abyss Box", "text": "Abyss Box\n\nThe Abyss Box is a vessel containing of water at the very high pressure of 18 megapascal to simulate the natural underwater environment of hadal fauna living at about below the surface. It is on display at Oceanopolis aquarium in Brest, France. It was designed by French researcher Bruce Shillito from Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris.\n\nAll the equipment maintaining the extreme pressure inside the Abyss Box weighs . The device will keep deep-dwelling creatures alive so they can be studied, especially regarding their adaptability to warmer ocean temperatures. Currently the Abyss Box houses only common species of deep sea creatures including a deep sea crab, \"Bythograea thermydron\" and a deep sea prawn, \"Pandalus borealis\", which are some of the hardier species with a higher survival rate in depressurized environments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58808190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58808190", "title": "Applied Geochemistry", "text": "Applied Geochemistry\n\nApplied Geochemistry is an international peer-reviewed academic journal published by the International Association of GeoChemistry covering research on geochemistry and urban geochemistry that was established in 1986. It is published by Elsevier and the editor-in-chief is Michael Kersten.\n\n"}
{"id": "5781467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5781467", "title": "Babcock State Park", "text": "Babcock State Park\n\nBabcock State Park is a state park located along the New River Gorge on wooded in Fayette County, West Virginia. It is located approximately 20 miles away from the New River Gorge Bridge.\n\nLocated near the park headquarters, the Glade Creek Grist Mill is commonly photographed. It was named in honor of Edward V. Babcock. Completed in 1976 by combining parts of three other West Virginia mills, it is a replica of the original Cooper's Mill that was located nearby. The park's web site describes the Glade Creek Grist Mill as a living, working monument to the more than 500 mills that used to be located throughout the state.\n\n\nAccessibility for the disabled was assessed by West Virginia University. The assessment found the campground, picnic shelters, restrooms, and ramps and doorways to public buildings to be accessible. The park also has accessible fishing access and two accessible cabins. During the 2005 assessment some issues were identified concerning parking lot signage and slippery stairways. \n\n"}
{"id": "8073353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8073353", "title": "Central Asia–Center gas pipeline system", "text": "Central Asia–Center gas pipeline system\n\nThe Central Asia – Center gas pipeline system is a Gazprom controlled system of natural gas pipelines, which run from Turkmenistan via Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan to Russia. The eastern branch includes the Central Asia - Center (CAC) 1, 2, 4 and 5 pipelines, which start from the south-eastern gas fields of Turkmenistan. The western branch consists of the CAC-3 pipeline and a project to build a new parallel Caspian pipeline. The western branch runs from the Caspian Sea coast of Turkmenistan to north. The branches meet in western Kazakhstan. From there the pipelines run to north where they are connected to the Russian natural gas pipeline system.\n\nThe system was built between 1960 and 1988. Construction began after discovery of Turkmenistan's Dzharkak field in the Amu Darya Basin, and the first section of the pipeline was completed in 1960. CAC-1 and 2 were commissioned in 1969 and CAC-4 was commissioned in 1973. In 1976, two parallel lines were laid between Shatlyk compressor station and Khiva. CAC-5 was commissioned in 1985 and in 1986-88 the Dauletabad–Khiva line was connected. The western branch (CAC-3) was constructed in 1972-1975.\n\nIn 2003, the late President of Turkmenistan Saparmurat Niyazov proposed to renovate existing systems and construct a new parallel pipeline to the western branch. On 12 May 2007, Vladimir Putin of Russia, Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan and Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow of Turkmenistan signed a memorandum for renovation and expansion of the western branch of the pipeline. On 20 December 2007, Russia, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan finalized agreement on construction of the Caspian Coastal Pipeline parallel to the existing CAC-3 pipeline (known as Bekdash–Europe pipeline or Okarem–Beineu pipeline).\n\nAlmost all Uzbek and Turkmen natural gas is delivered through the CAC pipeline system, mainly through the eastern branch due to location of production sites and poor technical condition of the western branch. CAC-1, 2, 4 and 5 pipelines are supplied from gas fields in the South-East of Turkmenistan, mainly from the Dauletabad gas field. The eastern branch starts from the Dauletabad field and continues through the Shatlyk gas field east of Tejen to Khiva, Uzbekistan. From there the pipeline system transports gas north-west along Amu Darya to the Kungrad compressor station in Uzbekistan. From Kungrad, most of the gas is carried via Kazakhstan to the Alexandrov Gay gas metering station in Russia. At Alexandrov Gay CAC pipelines meet with Soyuz and Orenburg–Novopskov pipelines. From there two lines run northwest to Moscow, and two others proceed across the Volga river to the North Caucasus-Moscow transmission system. The diameter of most pipelines varies from . Current capacity of the system is 44 billion cubic meters (bcm) per year. An agreement is in place to increase capacity to 55 bcm per year by 2010 and through modernization there is potential to increase capacity to 90 bcm per year.\n\nThe western branch originates at Okarem near the Turkmenistan–Iran border and runs north. It is supplied by gas from fields scattered along the Caspian coast between Okarem and Balkanabat. It continues via Uzen in Kazakhstan to the Beyneu compressor station, where it meets the eastern branch of the CAC. South of Hazar, the western system consists of diameter pipeline, and between Hazar and Beyneau diameter pipeline.\n\nOn 20 December 2007, Russia, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan agreed to construct a new Caspian pipeline parallel to the existing CAC-3 pipeline. The pipeline is planned be built between Belek compressor station in Turkmenistan and Alexandrov Gay compressor station. Capacity of the new pipeline will be 20–30 bcm per year and it would be supplied from the planned East–West pipeline. Construction of the pipeline was to start in the second half of 2009. However, the project was mothballed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2412926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412926", "title": "Colonial commodity fiat", "text": "Colonial commodity fiat\n\nColonial commodity fiat was the process whereby a colonising European power would define an arbitrary price for natural resources. This process diminished the colonised nation's natural capital. \n"}
{"id": "14024303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024303", "title": "Coniology", "text": "Coniology\n\nConiology or koniology (from Greek , \"konis\" or , \"koniā\", \"dust\"; and , \"-logia\") is the study of atmospheric dust and its effects. Samples of dust are often collected by a device called coniometer.\n"}
{"id": "35785438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35785438", "title": "Coral reef organizations", "text": "Coral reef organizations\n\nOrganizations which currently undertake coral reef and atoll restoration projects using simple methods of plant propagation:\n\nOrganizations which promote interest, provide knowledge bases about coral reef survival, and promote activities to protect and restore coral reefs:\n\n"}
{"id": "18166513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18166513", "title": "Deep chlorophyll maximum", "text": "Deep chlorophyll maximum\n\nThe deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM), also called the subsurface chlorophyll maximum, is the region below the surface of water with the maximum concentration of chlorophyll. A DCM is not always present - sometimes there is more chlorophyll at the surface than at any greater depth - but it is a common feature of most aquatic ecosystems, especially in regions of strong thermal stratification. The depth, thickness, intensity, composition, and persistence of DCMs vary widely. The DCM generally exists at the same depth as the nutricline, the region of the ocean where the greatest change in the nutrient concentration occurs with depth.\n\nA common way of determining the DCM is through the use of a CTD rosette, an underwater instrument that measures various parameters of water at specific depths. The location and formation of the DCM depends on multiple factors, such as the resident organisms' nutritional needs and light availability. Some organisms have adapted to lower levels of light through increasing its cellular chlorophyll amounts, and others have adapted by migrating vertically with varying nutrient and light levels. The DCM species composition vary with water chemistry, location, seasonality, and depth. Not only is there a difference in DCM species composition between oceans and lakes, variation is also present within different oceans and lakes. Because the DCM holds much of the world's primary productivity, it plays a significant role in nutrient cycling, the flow of energy, and biogeochemical cycles.\n\nThe DCM is often located tens of meters below the surface, and cannot be observed by using traditional satellite remote sensing methods. Estimates of primary productivity are often made via these remote sensing methods coupled with statistical models, though these statistical calculations may not have accurately included production in the DCM. The DCM of a study area can be determined in-situ through the use of an underwater instrument (CTD rosette with niskin bottles) to measure various parameters such as salinity (including dissolved nutrients), temperature, pressure, and chlorophyll fluorescence. Collected water samples can be used to determine phytoplankton cell counts. These measurements can then be converted into chlorophyll concentrations, phytoplankton biomass, and phytoplankton productivity. Another way to estimate primary productivity in the DCM is to create a simulation of the DCM formation in a region by making a 3D model of the region. This can be done if sufficient hydrodynamic and biogeochemical data exists for that ocean region.\n\nSince its initial discovery, oceanographers have presented various theories to explain the formation of deep chlorophyll maxima. \n\nIn-situ studies have determined that the depth of DCM formation is primarily dependent on light attenuation levels, and the depth of the nutricline, although thermal stratification also plays a role. In lakes, the thickness of the DCM layer is mainly controlled by the sizes and maximum depths of lakes. \n\nThe DCM forms near the nutricline and the bottom of the photic zone. Phytoplankton growth in the DCM is limited by both nutrient and light availability, therefore either increased nutrient input, or increased light availability to the DCM can in turn increase the phytoplankton growth rate. \n\nThe location and formation of the DCM also depends on season. In the Mediterranean Sea, the DCM is present in the summer due to water stratification, and is rare in the winter due to deep mixing. The DCM can be present at shallower depths in the winter and early spring due to light limitation and higher nutrient availability in shallower regions due to mixing, and at lower depths during the summer and early fall as nutrients in the surface water are depleted by primary producers and stronger irradiance allows light to penetrate to greater depths. \n\nThe formation of a DCM correlates with a number of biological processes, affecting nutrient cycling for local heterotrophic bacteria and composition of specialized phytoplankton.\n\nLight attenuation factors have been shown to be quite predictive of the DCM depth, since the phytoplankton present in the region require sufficient sunlight for growth, resulting in a DCM that is generally found in the euphotic zone. However, if the phytoplankton population has adapted to lower light environments, the DCM can also be located in the aphotic zone. The high chlorophyll concentration at the DCM is due to the high number of phytoplankton that have adapted to functioning in low light conditions. \n\nTo adapt to low light conditions, some phytoplankton populations have been found to have increased amounts of chlorophyll counts per cell, which contributes to the formation of the DCM. Rather than an increase of overall cell numbers, seasonal light limitation or low irradiance levels can raise the individual cellular chlorophyll content. As depth increases within the mixing zone, phytoplankton must rely on having higher pigment counts (chlorophyll) to capture photic energy. Due to the higher concentration of chlorophyll in the phtoplankton present, the DCM does not predict the depth of the biomass maximum in the same region. \n\nIn addition, compared to shallower regions of the mixing zone, the DCM has high nutrient concentrations and/or lower respiratory, grazing, and death rates which further promote phytoplankton cell production. \n\nVertical migration, or movement of phytoplankton within the water column, contributes to the establishment of the DCM due to the diversity of resources required by the phytoplankton. Dependent on factors like nutrients and available light, some phytoplankton species will intentionally move to different depths to fulfill their physiological requirements. A mechanism employed by certain phytoplankton, such as certain species of diatoms and cyanobacteria, is to regulate their own buoyancy to move through the water column. Other species such as dinoflagellates use their flagella to swim to their desired depth. This intentional movement of phytoplankton contributes to the formation of the DCM in areas where these species make up a significant proportion of the phytoplankton community. Generally these species are larger in size and are not found in significant abundance in nutrient poor regions, so these physiological aspects of phytoplankton contribute less to DCM formation in oligotrophic waters.\n\nIn lakes, the thickness of the DCM shows positive correlations with lake sizes. However, due to the great diversity of lakes, there is no constant factor for light and temperature that can be utilized to predict DCM depths across different lake types.\n\nThe composition of microorganisms present in the DCM varies significantly with geographical location, season, and depth. \n\nThe species of phytoplankton present in the DCM varies with depth due to varying accessory pigmentation. Some phytoplankton species have accessory pigments, compounds that have adapted them to gather light energy from certain wavelengths of light, even in areas of low light penetration. To optimize light energy collection, phytoplankton will move to specific depths to access different wavelengths of visible light. \n\nThe difference in phytoplankton composition between the epilimnion layer and the DCM are consistent throughout several bodies of water. The DCM tends to harbour more flagellated organisms and cryptophytes, whereas the epilimnion layer tends to have a larger centric diatom abundance. \n\nIn the Northwestern Mediterranean, the most abundant phytoplankton present are coccolithophorids, flagellates, and dinoflagellates. The Southeastern Mediterranean has a similar composition, where coccolithophorids and monads (nano- and picoplankton) make up the majority of the phytoplankton community in the DCM.\n\nIn the Indian Ocean, the most abundant microorganisms present in the DCM are cyanobacteria such as prochlorophytes, coccolithophorids, dinoflagellates and diatoms. \n\nIn the North Sea, dinoflagellates are the main phytoplankton species present in the DCM at and below the pycnocline. In shallower parts of the DCM - above the pycnocline, dinoflagellates are also present, as well as nanoflagellates.\n\nThe DCM of clear, stratified water is commonly found below the epilimnion. Lake Superior is the world’s largest freshwater lake, and in the summer, its DCM ranges approximately from 20 m and 35 m below the surface. Although the epilimnion and DCM are neighbouring layers of water, the species composition of the epilimnion and the DCM differ almost entirely. These differences include the presence of less centric diatoms, more pennate diatoms, cryptophytes, and pyrrophytes at the DCM compared to the epilimnion layer. Additionally, the most significant difference in between these two layers is the abundance of \"Cyclotella comta\", which occurs much less in the DCM.\n\nMuch more of the DCM community are flagellated (e.g. cryptophytes and pyrrophytes) compared to those of the epilimnion. As flagellated species are better swimmers, this could explain how they are able to reside at their desired depth, the DCM. Another factor for the development of the DCM is nutrient availability. It has been found that the DCM had a lower ratio of particulate organic carbon (POC) to phosphorus (P) than the epilimnion. Since phosphorus is one of the limiting factors for growth, especially in Lake Superior during stratified times, this phenomenon may indicate that phytoplankton at in the DCM is more enriched with phosphorus than in the epilimnion. The higher availability of phosphorus may have allowed more phytoplankton to prefer the DCM even with the lower amount of light compared to the epilimnion. On the other hand, the fact that the DCM has lower light availability could be used to argue that the lower POC:P ratio is due to light limitation rather than increased nutrient (P) concentrations.\n\nIn Lake Tahoe, the DCM is unique, as the depth of the region is much lower than normal, present at around 90-110 metres below the surface. Typically, DCM's are found closely below the thermocline, which is present at around 30-40 metres. Lake Tahoe represents a chlorophyll gradient similar to that of oligotrophic areas, such that the depth of the region is dependent on seasonal fluctuations. Due to these temporal shifts, especially between spring and summer, Lake Tahoe's phytoplankton communities undergo distinct changes. During the spring months, the DCM coincides with the upper surface of the nitracline, making the water nutrient-rich for diatoms \"Cyclotella striata\" and crysophytes \"Dinobryon bavaricum\" to thrive in. During the summer months, the DCM deepens, and productivity within the layer almost becomes entirely light dependent. Similar to the chlorophyll structures found in oceans, the DCM becomes incredibly fluid and variable, such that certain phytoplankton species (diatoms \"Synedra ulna, Cyclotella comta\" and green flagellates) begin to dominate, despite being absent during the spring productivity period. \n\nOverall, the phytoplankton community between the epilimnion and the DCM in Lake Tahoe differ with size. Both regions are abundant with diatoms; small diatoms (cell volume = 30.5μm³) such as \"Cyclotella stelligera, Synedra radians\" make up the majority in the epilimnion, while larger diatoms (cell volume = 416.3μm³) such as \"C.ocellata, Stephanodiscus alpinus, Fragilaria crotonensis,\" dominate the DCM. \n\nLakes of the North Patagonian Andean Region can be divided into larger deeper lakes and smaller shallow lakes. Although these lakes are found in the same region, they exhibit different conditions leading to varying DCM species compositions. The large deep lakes are ultra-oligotrophic, as they are very transparent and contain low DOC and nutrients. Unlike the homogenous thermal profile of the shallower lakes, deeper lakes undergo strong thermal stratification during the late spring and summer. The two lake types also differ in light attenuation coefficients: it is lower in the transparent deeper lakes, which means more light is able to penetrate though.\n\nAs such, the main difference between the two lake types that was found to contribute to the DCM community is the light climate. Shallow lakes were found to contain greater concentrations of dissolved yellow particles than the deeper lakes. As a result, for deeper lakes, maximum absorption wavelengths were mainly at the red end of the spectra, whereas shallow lakes exhibited green and blue absorption wavelengths in addition to red.\n\nAt the DCM region of the large deep lakes, the mixotrophic ciliate \"Ophrydium naumanni\" were dominant. Their phototrophic abilities come from their endosymbiotic algae \"Chlorella\", which are strong competitors in poor light conditions. In addition, the ciliates can undergo phagotrophy to obtain other necessary elements. In shallower lakes, \"O. naumanni\" were found to be absent, likely due to higher levels of competition with phytoplankton and turbulence intensity.\n\nThe DCM plays an important ecological role in harbouring much of the world’s primary production, and in nutrient cycling. In oligotrophic waters, like the North Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, the DCM is where over half of the overall primary production occurs due to phytoplankton growth. The high rate of primary production in the DCM facilitates nutrient cycling to higher trophic levels in the mixed layer. The DCM forms at the same depth as the nuricline, so phytoplankton in the DCM can access nutrients coming up from the deep ocean. The phytoplankton in the DCM can then cycle back up the water column providing nutrients for heterotrophs in the mixed layer. \n\nSince the DCM environment plays a fundamental role in primary productivity, it can be associated with many aspects of aquatic predator-prey interactions, energy and biomass flow, and biogeochemical cycles.Significant export of organic material from the water column occurs due to the DCM, as heterotrophs consume phytoplankton in the DCM and the fecal matter of grazers sinks to the deep ocean. The DCM is an important food source for secondary producers as it has a relatively high concentration of primary producers at one region of the water column. This makes it easier and faster for grazers to find and consume phytoplankton which in turn increases the rate of movement of energy through the trophic levels. \n"}
{"id": "53069461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53069461", "title": "Delta Gruis", "text": "Delta Gruis\n\nThe Bayer designation δ Gruis (Delta Gruis) is shared by two stars in the constellation Grus:\n\n"}
{"id": "17242477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17242477", "title": "Doppler imaging", "text": "Doppler imaging\n\nInhomogeneous structures on stellar surfaces, i.e. temperature differences, chemical composition or magnetic fields, create characteristic distortions in the spectral lines due to the Doppler effect. These distortions will move across spectral line profiles due to the stellar rotation. The technique to reconstruct these structures on the stellar surface is called Doppler-imaging, often based on the Maximum Entropy image reconstruction to find the stellar image. This technique gives the smoothest and simplest image that is consistent with observations.\n\nTo understand the magnetic field and activity of stars, studies of the Sun are not sufficient. Therefore, studies of other stars are necessary. Periodic changes in brightness have long been observed in stars which indicate cooler or brighter starspots on the surface. These spots are larger than the ones on the Sun, covering up to 20% of the star. Spots with similar size as the ones on the Sun would hardly give rise to changes in intensity. In order to understand the magnetic field structure of a star, it is not enough to know that spots exist because their location and extent are also important.\n\nDoppler imaging was first used to map chemical peculiarities on the surface of Ap stars. For mapping starspots it was first used by Steven Vogt and Donald Penrod in 1983, when they demonstrated that signatures of starspots were observable in the line profiles of the active binary star HR 1099 (V711 Tau); from this they could derive an image of the stellar surface.\n\nIn order to be able to use the Doppler imaging technique the star needs to fulfill some specific criteria. \n\nIn the simplest case, dark starspots decrease the amount of light coming from one specific region; this causes a dip or notch in the spectral line. As the star rotates the notch will first appear on the short wavelength side when it becomes visible towards the observer. Then it will move across the line profile and increase in angular size since the spot is seen more face-on, the maximum is when the spot passes the star’s meridian. The opposite happens when the spot moves over to the other side of the star. The spot has its maximum Doppler shift for;\n\nWhere \"l\" is the latitude and \"L\" is the longitude.\nThus signatures from spots at higher latitudes will be restricted to spectral line centers, which will also occurring when the rotation axis is not perpendicular to the line of sight. If the spot is located at high latitude it is possible that it will always be seen, in which case the distortion in the line profile will move back and forth and only the amount of distortion will change.\n\nDoppler imaging can also be made for changing chemical abundances across the stellar surface; these may not give rise to notches in the line profile since they can be brighter than the rest of the surface, instead producing a dip in the line profile.\n\nThe Zeeman-Doppler imaging is a variant of the Doppler imaging technique, by using circular and linear polarization information to see the small shifts in wavelength and profile shapes that occur when a magnetic field is present.\n\nAnother way to determine and see the extent of starspots is to study stars that are binaries. Then the problem with \"i\" =90° is reduced and the mapping of the stellar surface can be improved. When one of the stars passes in front of the other there will be an eclipse, and starspots on the eclipsed hemisphere will cause a distortion in the eclipse curve, revealing the location and size of the spots. This technique can be used for finding both dark (cool) and bright (hot) spots.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191064", "title": "Dusk", "text": "Dusk\n\nDusk occurs at the darkest stage of twilight, or at the very end of astronomical twilight after sunset and just before night. Pre-dusk, during early to intermediate stages of twilight, there may be enough light in the sky under clear conditions to read outdoors without artificial illumination, but at the end of civil twilight, when Earth rotates to a point at which the center of the Sun is 6° below the local horizon, artificial illumination is required to read outside. The term \"dusk\" usually refers to astronomical dusk, or the darkest part of twilight before night begins.\n\nThe time of dusk is the moment at the very end of astronomical twilight, just before the minimum brightness of the night sky sets in, or may be thought of as \"the darkest part of evening twilight\".\nBut technically, the three stages of dusk are as follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "26125452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26125452", "title": "Earle L. Reynolds", "text": "Earle L. Reynolds\n\nEarle L. Reynolds (October 18, 1910 – January 11, 1998) was an anthropologist, educator, author, Quaker, and peace activist. He was sent to Hiroshima by the Atomic Energy Commission in 1951 to study the effects of the first atomic bomb on the growth and development of exposed children. His professional discoveries concerning the dangers of radiation later moved Reynolds into a life of anti-nuclear activism. In 1958 he sailed with his wife Barbara, two of his three children and a Japanese yachtsman in the \"Phoenix of Hiroshima\", a ketch he had designed himself, into the American nuclear testing zone in the Pacific. In 1961 the family sailed to the USSR to protest Soviet nuclear testing. During the Vietnam War Reynolds and his second wife Akie sailed the \"Phoenix\" to Haiphong to deliver humanitarian and medical aid to victims of American bombing.\n\nReynolds, an only child, was born Earl Frederick Schoene to William and Maude Schoene as the circus of which they were a part passed through Des Moines, Iowa. Earle's father and uncle Frederick performed as The Landry Brothers, trapeze artists and tightrope walkers for the John T. Wortham Shows (also known as John T. Wortham Carnival). \"Billboard\" noted, \"The Landry Brothers work a neat and classy rope acrobatic turn for six minutes, in full stage, which brought the brawny lads one legit.\". Before World War I made German names unpopular, according to Reynolds, the pair were billed as Schoene Brothers Aerial Artists. Depending on the season and the family's financial status, their circus acts alternated with vaudeville.\n\nEarl took his stepfather's surname, added an \"e\" to his first name, earned the rank of Eagle Scout and graduated from Vicksburg High School in 1927. He went on to earn his BA and MA from the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin, all in Anthropology. He married Barbara Leonard in 1936 and they had three children: Tim (1936), Ted (1938), and Jessica (1944). From 1943 to 1951 Reynolds was Associate Professor of Anthropology at Antioch College and Chairman of the Physical Growth Department at the Fels Research Institute for the Study of Human Development, also at Antioch College.\n\nIn 1951 Earle joined the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission (ABCC), established under the direction of the National Research Council's Division of Medical Sciences in March 1947. He was sent to Hiroshima to research the effects of radiation from the first atomic bomb on the growth of Japanese children. From 1951 until 1954 Earle completed the first of a series of longitudinal studies meant to be resumed after a one-year sabbatical. He wrote up his findings as \"Report on a Three-Year Study, 1951-2-3, of the Growth and Development of Hiroshima Children Exposed to the Atomic Bomb, 1954.\" In summary he had found children exposed to radiation to be smaller than their counterparts with lowered resistance to disease and a greater susceptibility to cancer, especially leukemia. Because strontium-90 (produced by the atomic bomb) seeks the same areas of the bodies of growing children as calcium, such as the thyroid gland, children exposed to the bomb were also subject to thyroid cancer.\n\nWhile in Japan, Reynolds designed and had built a yacht of , the \"Phoenix of Hiroshima\". From 1954-58 he, his wife Barbara, son Ted (16), daughter Jessica (10), and three young Japanese men from Hiroshima, Niichi (\"Nick\") Mikami, Motosada (\"Moto\") Fushima and Mitsugi (\"Mickey\") Suemitsu, sailed around the world.\n\nThe building of the boat took 18 months, one year longer than had been previously expected. The first leg of the voyage, from Japan to Hawaii, took 48 days.\n\nIn Honolulu for the second time, what had been a pleasure cruise took a serious turn. Across the dock from the \"Phoenix\" was a ketch of , the \"Golden Rule\". Its crew, four Quaker pacifists, Albert Bigelow, George Willoughby, Bill Huntington and Orion Sherwood were attempting to sail to the Marshall Islands to protest the United States' testing of 35 nuclear devices there. An injunction against American citizens entering the test zone was passed after the \"Golden Rule\" left port and it was brought back by the Coast Guard. Impressed by the reasoning and character of these men, Earle and Barbara joined the Society of Friends (Quakers) and considered taking over their protest in the \"Phoenix\".\n\nReynolds was at that time one of the world's experts on the effects of radiation. In determining whether to deliberately enter the test zone, he considered a number of factors, such as the effects the radiation from the series of nuclear tests would have on the world environment, specifically increasing incidents of cancer, and the effects of this additional radiation on the Hiroshima and Nagasaki population, since both wind and ocean currents from the test site would carry radiation that direction. He considered unconstitutional the United States government's injunction declaring of ocean off-limits to American personnel during the series. Also, the forbidden zone blanketed any route by which the Reynolds family could conveniently sail back to Japan, as they had hoped to do as soon as possible to complete the circumnavigation. In addition, as the Marshall Islands were a Trust Territory of the U.S., Reynolds objected to the forced removal of Marshallese from their home islands for the purpose of detonating weapons which would almost certainly render their islands uninhabitable for years to come.\n\nEarle, Barbara, Ted (20), Jessica (14) and Mikami cleared \"for the high seas\" on June 11, 1958. The family had not decided whether or not to enter the forbidden zone but Mikami, whose mother and brother had been in the bombing, never wrestled with the question. For days after the nuclear weapon was dropped, his mother had crawled through the radioactive rubble, searching for her brother-in-law. She never found his body.\n\nBy July 1, at the edge of the invisible perimeter of the zone, everyone came to a consensus. Earle announced by radiotelephone, on the international frequency for ships at sea, \"The United States yacht \"Phoenix\" is sailing today into the nuclear test zone as a protest against nuclear testing...\"\n\nThe next morning, inside the forbidden zone, the \"Phoenix\" was intercepted and stopped by the American Coast Guard cutter \"Planetree\". Two armed Coast Guard officers jumped aboard and put Reynolds under arrest. He was flown back to Honolulu for trial. A jury convicted him of entering a forbidden area. The sentence was overturned on appeal.\n\nWithin 19 months Earle and his family were involved in another protest voyage. With the Pacific Ocean again open to American citizens, they sailed without incident back to Hiroshima.\n\nIn October, 1961, the USSR resumed its own nuclear testing. The Reynolds family plus Tom Yoneda sailed to Nakhodka in protest (The nearest military port, Vladivostok, was inaccessible in winter).\n\nIn 1962, Reynolds was invited to captain the \"Everyman III\", on which members of A Quaker Action Group (AQAG) sailed from London to Leningrad via Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, and Sweden. This boat of , too, was stopped at sea by armed soldiers. This time the crew were tied up with ropes. That same year, Reynolds and Professor Tatsuo Morito of the University of Hiroshima co-founded the Hiroshima Institute of Peace Science (HIPS). Reynolds became a spokesman for the Japanese peace movement and attempted to work with its Gensuikyo branch until he found it too political for his taste, reporting to the press, \"Peace cannot be achieved in an atmosphere of hatred.\"\n\nEarle and Barbara divorced in 1964 and Earle married Akie Nagami, a citizen of Hiroshima and a graduate of Hiroshima Women's College where Earle was guest Professor of Anthropology. Together Earle and Akie continued his voyages in the \"Phoenix\". In 1967 a multi-national crew delivered nearly a ton of medical aid to the Red Cross Society of North Vietnam for civilian victims of the Vietnam War. They spent eight days visiting hospitals in Hanoi and Hai Phong and observing the effects of American bombing on outlying villages. Two other voyages to Vietnam followed.\n\nEarle and Akie made two attempts to sail the \"Phoenix\" to Shanghai as a gesture of \"friendship and reconciliation\" from an American and a Japanese citizen to the people of China, although the Japanese government refused to grant Akie a passport on the grounds China and Japan had no diplomatic relations. In 1968 the \"Phoenix\" was stopped on the high seas by a Japanese ship. Two years of litigation followed in Japanese courts. In 1969, with a crew of six Americans, the \"Phoenix\" was stopped offshore by Chinese authorities and their entry was prohibited.\n\nAfter these attempts to sail to China, the Japanese government passed a new immigration law cracking down on \"undesirable aliens\" (1970) and Reynolds was expelled from his adopted country of 13 years. He and his wife sailed to San Francisco and settled in Ben Lomond, California. He taught Peace Studies at the University of California at Santa Cruz and at Cabrillo College while Akie earned an MA in Peace Studies from Antioch College and worked as a career counselor at UCSC, specializing in peace-making careers and in placing students in overseas jobs. His seminar class founded the Peace Resource Center at Merrill College on the UCSC campus in 1975 but it became a casualty of financial cutbacks in the 1980s. Over a two-week period in 1981, 1900 activists were arrested at Diablo Canyon Power Plant. It was the largest arrest in the history of the U.S. anti-nuclear movement and against nuclear weapons research. Reynolds was one of those arrested.\n\nIn a 1986 interview, Earle commented on his life work: \"I've been a kind of a renegade scientist. As soon as I stepped over the boundaries, as soon as my findings became politically sensitive, I lost my credibility as a scientist. Now a scientist will stand on a podium and say what I was saying 30 years ago. I'm like a voice in the wilderness that finally begins to hear answering voices.\" \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "832892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=832892", "title": "Edward Hitchcock", "text": "Edward Hitchcock\n\nEdward Hitchcock (May 24, 1793 – February 27, 1864) was an American geologist and the third President of Amherst College (1845–1854).\n\nBorn to poor parents, he attended newly founded Deerfield Academy, where he was later principal, from 1815 to 1818. In 1821 he was ordained as a Congregationalist pastor and served as pastor of the Congregational Church in Conway, Massachusetts, 1821-25. He left the ministry to become Professor of Chemistry and Natural History at Amherst College. He held that post from 1825 to 1845, serving as Professor of Natural Theology and Geology from 1845 until his death in 1864. In 1845, Hitchcock became President of the College, a post he held until 1854. As president, Hitchcock was responsible for Amherst's recovery from severe financial difficulties. He is also credited with developing the college's scientific resources and establishing its reputation for scientific teaching.\n\nIn addition to his positions at Amherst, Hitchcock was a well-known early geologist. He ran the first geological survey of Massachusetts, and in 1830 was appointed state geologist of Massachusetts (he held the post until 1844). He also played a role in the geological surveys of New York and Vermont. His chief project, however, was natural theology, which attempted to unify and reconcile science and religion, focusing on geology. His major work in this area was \"The Religion of Geology and Its Connected Sciences\" (1851). In this book, he sought out ways to re-interpret the Bible to agree with the latest geological theories. For example, knowing that the earth was at least hundreds of thousands of years old, vastly older than the 6,000 years posited by Biblical scholars, Hitchcock devised a way to read the original Hebrew so that a single letter in Genesis—a \"v\", meaning \"afterwards\"—implied the vast timespans during which the earth was formed. Randy Moore described Hitchcock as \"America's leading advocate of catastrophism-based gap creationism.\"\n\nHitchcock left his mark in paleontology. He discovered some of the first fossil fishes in the United States. He published papers on fossilized tracks in the Connecticut Valley, including Eubrontes and Otozoum, that were later associated with dinosaurs, though he believed, with a certain prescience, that they were made by gigantic ancient birds. In the Hitchcock Ichnological Cabinet he established a remarkable collection of fossil footmarks. His son, Edward \"Doc\" Hitchcock, named one of the earliest dinosaurs discovered in North America and the United States, \"Megadactylus polyzelus\". Later it was reclassified as the type specimen of \"Anchisaurus polyzelus\" (ACM 41109), a prosauropod. This botanist is denoted by the author abbreviation E.Hitchc. when citing a botanical name.\n\nAs he had researched the geologic lake which once filled the Connecticut River basin, this prehistoric lake was named after him. Since he had done geological research on the Holyoke Range, one of the mountains there, Mount Hitchcock, was named after him.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1834. From 1856 to 1861, Hitchcock was the State Geologist for Vermont. \n\nHis collections, a bust and portrait can be viewed at the Amherst College Museum of Natural History. The Archives and Special Collections at Amherst holds his papers.\n\nIn 1821, he married Orra White, one of the earliest women botanical and scientific illustrators in the U.S. The two worked closely together, and she contributed more than 1,000 illustrations to his many scientific publications.\n\nHe inserted a paleontological chart in his \"Elementary Geology\" (1840). It shows a branching diagram of the plant and animal kingdom against a geological background. He referred to it as a tree. This \"tree of life\" is the earliest known version that incorporates paleontological and geological information.\n\nHitchcock was an advocate of gap creationism. Hitchcock saw God as the agent of change. He explicitly rejected evolution and a religious six-day creation. He perceived that new species were introduced by a Deity at the right time in the history of the earth. The chart is present in all editions between 1840 and 1859. After Charles Darwin (1859) published his \"On the Origin of Species\", a tree of life image was generally interpreted as an evolutionary tree. In the 1860 edition of \"Elementary Geology\" Hitchcock dropped the chart. In 1863 Hitchcock wrote an article in which he criticized Darwin’s theory of natural selection. After his death in 1864, his son Charles Henry Hitchcock (1836–1919) published a new edition (1870) also without a paleontological chart. Charles then published books and articles of his own.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40745140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40745140", "title": "Elephant Marsh", "text": "Elephant Marsh\n\nElephant Marsh lies on the flood plain of the Lower Shire River in the African country of Malawi between the towns of Chikwawa and Nsanje. The marsh varies in size from 150 to 450 square miles depending on the flow of the Shire and Ruo rivers and has no permanent boundary. In some places, floating mats of vegetation are so thick boat travel is nearly impossible. The Ruo River, the largest tributary of the Shire and the southeastern boundary between Malawi and Mozambique, merges with the Shire in the Elephant Marsh.\n\nThe marsh was named by David Livingstone in 1859, who counted as many as 800 elephants in one sighting. Today the elephants are largely gone, but the Elephant Marsh supports a large number of aquatic birds. Crocodiles are also very common. The marsh is similar to swampy Lake Chilwa, located two hundred miles to the north. Boat trips through Elephant Marsh can be arranged from nearby Lengwe National Park.\n"}
{"id": "20960727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20960727", "title": "Equivalent effective stratospheric chlorine", "text": "Equivalent effective stratospheric chlorine\n\nEquivalent effective stratospheric chlorine (EESC) provides an estimate of the total effective amount of halogens (chlorine and bromine) in the stratosphere. It is calculated from emission of chlorofluorocarbon and related halogenated compounds into the troposphere (lower atmosphere) and their efficiency in contributing to stratospheric ozone depletion (ozone depletion potential, ODP), and by making assumptions on transport times into the upper atmosphere (stratosphere). This parameter is used to quantify man-made ozone depletion and its changes with time. As a consequence of the Montreal Protocol and its amendments phasing out ozone-depleting substances (ODS), the EESC reached maximum in the late 1990s and is now slowly decreasing.\n"}
{"id": "14107878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14107878", "title": "Geologic timeline of Western North America", "text": "Geologic timeline of Western North America\n\nA timeline of significant geological events in the evolution of western North America. Dates are approximate. (\"Ma\" = millions of years ago)\n\n"}
{"id": "17616152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616152", "title": "HMS Driver (1840)", "text": "HMS Driver (1840)\n\nHMS \"Driver\" was a \"Driver\"-class wooden paddle sloop of the Royal Navy. She is credited with the first global circumnavigation by a steamship when she arrived back in England on 14 May 1847.\n\n\"Driver\" was ordered on 12 March 1840 from Portsmouth Dockyard to a design by Sir William Symonds. She was laid down in June 1840 and launched on 24 December 1840, with her machinery being supplied by Seaward & Capel of Limehouse, Woolwich. Her hull cost £19,433, with the machinery costing another £13,866. After she had completed fitting out, at a further cost of £6,408, she was commissioned on 5 November 1841.\n\n\"Driver\" embarked for the East Indies and China in March 1842. She served some time in China (losing her original Commander) before being ordered to New Zealand in September 1845. She was damaged by a storm en-route, necessitating repairs to her engine and boiler and other parts of the ship.\n\nDuring her circumnavigation \"Driver\" became the first steamship to visit New Zealand, arriving on 20 January 1846, and was involved in the Hutt Valley Campaign, which was part of the New Zealand Wars. At the time of her visit she was described as a brig-rigged 6-gun warship displacing 1,058 tons with engines rated 280 horsepower.\n\n\"Driver\" set off east from New Zealand for her return journey to England via Cape Horn on 28 January 1847. She stopped for six days in Argentina to pick up more coal, finally arriving in Portsmouth, England on Friday 14 May 1847, 105 days after starting from New Zealand. Of the ship's original officers, the second in command Lieutenant Thomas Kisbee, the master, purser, surgeon and assistant surgeon completed the entire circumnavigation.\n\nOn 11 March 1850 she was docked in Victoria Harbour to witness Richard Blanshard assume the Governorship of the newly formed Colony of Vancouver Island, and issued a seventeen-gun salute.\n\nShe was wrecked on 3 August 1861 on Mayaguana Island, the most easterly of the Bahamas, in the West Indies.\n\n"}
{"id": "789883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789883", "title": "Humboldt Current", "text": "Humboldt Current\n\nThe Humboldt Current, also called the Peru Current, is a cold, low-salinity ocean current that flows north along the western coast of South America. It is an eastern boundary current flowing in the direction of the equator, and extends offshore. The Humboldt Current is named after the Prussian naturalist Alexander von Humboldt. In 1846, von Humboldt reported measurements of the cold-water current in his book \"Cosmos\".\n\nThe current extends from the southern Chile (~45th parallel south) to northern Peru (~4th parallel south) where cold, upwelled waters intersect warm tropical waters to form the Equatorial Front. Sea surface temperatures off the coast of Peru, around 5th parallel south, reach temperatures as low as . This is highly uncharacteristic of tropical waters, as most other regions have temperatures measuring above . Upwelling brings nutrients to the surface, which support phytoplankton and ultimately increase biological productivity.\n\nThe Humboldt Current is considered a Class I, highly productive (>300 gC/m2-yr), ecosystem. It is the most productive eastern boundary current system. It accounts for roughly 18-20% of the total worldwide marine fish catch. The species are mostly pelagic: sardines, anchovies and jack mackerel. The system’s high productivity supports other important fishery resources as well as marine mammals (eared seals and cetaceans) and seabirds. The cold, nutrient-rich water brought to the surface by upwelling drives the system’s extraordinary productivity.\n\nPeriodically, the upwelling that drives the system’s productivity is disrupted by the El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) event. When this occurs, fish abundance and distribution are significantly affected, often leading to stock crashes and cascading social and economic impacts. These events have led to sequential changes, where sardines and anchovies have replaced each other periodically as the dominant species in the ecosystem. These species changes can have negative consequences for the fishing industry and the economies of the countries that fish the system.\n\nThe Humboldt has a considerable cooling influence on the climate of Chile, Peru and Ecuador. It is also largely responsible for the aridity of Atacama Desert in northern Chile and coastal areas of Peru and also of the aridity of southern Ecuador. Marine air is cooled by the current and thus is not conducive to generating precipitation (although clouds and fog are produced).\n\nThe trade winds are the primary drivers of the Humboldt Current circulation. Variability in this system is driven by latitudinal shifts between the Intertropical Convergent Zone and the trade winds in the north. Shifts within the South Pacific High at mid-latitudes, as well as cyclonic storms and movement of the Southern Westerlies southward also contribute to system changes. Atmospheric variability off central Chile is enhanced by the aggravation of coastal low pressure systems trapped between the marine boundary layer and the coastal mountains. This is prominent poleward from 27th parallel south to 42nd parallel south.\n\nThe Humboldt current, occupying the upper ocean, flows equatorward carrying fresh, cold Sub-Antarctic surface water northward, along the outskirts of the subtropical gyre. The main flow of the current veers offshore in southern Peru, as a weaker limb continues to flow equatorward. Around 18th parallel south the fresh, cold waters begin to mix with the warm, high salinity Subtropical Surface waters. This collision causes partial subductions. Within this region, the equatorial undercurrent (EUC) flows eastward along the equator, feeding the Peru-Chile undercurrent (PCU) that moves poleward.\n\nOff the coast of central Chile, there is a coastal transition zone (CTZ), which is characterized by high eddy kinetic energy. This energy forms mesoscale eddies which extend offshore. The CTZ has three distinct regions within its boundaries: 1) high chlorophyll-a concentrations in wide regions off the coast of Peru (10–15°S), 2) high chlorophyll-a concentrations in wide regions off the coast of Chile (30°S), and 3) high chlorophyll-a concentrations in narrow regions off the coast of northern Chile (Montecino and Lange 2008). High chlorophyll-a concentrations are generally found within 50 km of the coast.\n\nThe limb of the HCS that veers off the coast of Peru creates a decrease in ventilation within the system. This lack of ventilation is the primary driver of an intense oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) which is formed in the sub-surface to intermediate depths. In the north, the EUC ventilates the OMZ, and in the south the PCU advects low oxygen waters southward towards northern Chile. This OMZ is the fourth largest permeant hypoxic zone in the world’s oceans. It occupies an area about 2.18 ± 0.66 × 10 km. The core of this zone is centered off Peru, creating a shallow upper boundary that reaches from about down to . Another factor contributing to the OMZ is sinking and decay of primary productive resources.\n\nConsequently, the OMZ forces many organisms to stay near the surface where nutrients and oxygen are obtainable. The presence of a shallow OMZ restricts the migration of zooplankton within the water column. Between , many species of zooplankton occupy this space within the OMZ. This allows for a substantial exchange of carbon between the euphotic layer and the OMZ. 75% of the total zooplankton biomass move in and out of the OMZ. The OMZ also serves as a refuge for organisms that can live in hypoxic conditions.\n\nCoastal upwelling is the main factor contributing to the high biological productivity of the Humboldt current. Upwelling within the current is not uniform across the entire system. Three notable upwelling subsystems are produced by this current: i) seasonal upwelling in Chile only during the spring and summer, because of the displacement of the subtropical center of high pressure during the period January–March, ii) upwelling \"shadow\" that is less productive, but still large in northern Chile and Southern Peru, and iii) highly productive year-round upwelling in Peru. The upwelling shadow identified between 35°S and 15°S is caused by the oligotrophic subtropical gyre impinging on the coast. This creates a narrow, but highly productive, upwelling zone.\n\nDue to the upwelling zones within the Humboldt current, biological diversity is extremely high. The current hosts a wide range of organisms including multiple species of plankton, mollusks, sea urchins, crustaceans, fish, and marine mammals. The food web starts with the phytoplankton. The conditions of the Humboldt current are prime for these organisms to thrive. This causes a cascade effect in which larger and larger organisms are drawn to the area.\n\nThe Humboldt current produces some of the most successful commercial fisheries in the world. The major catches include: sardines, anchovies, mackerel, hake, and squid. Three major stocks of anchoveta are distributed between 4°S and 42°S within the HCS. North-central Peru's fishery is primarily composed of one stock of anchoveta. Sardines, chub mackerel, and bonito are also common catches, but not as prominent, in Peru. Southern Peru and Northern Chile host a major sardine fishery. Other common stocks include: a second anchoveta stock, jack mackerel, tuna, and swordfish. Anchoveta, jack mackerel, and sardines are the primary commercial stocks in central Chile.\n\nAnchoveta are found in more recently upwelled waters, close to the coast. Sardines, on the other hand, are typically found farther offshore. Seasonal upwelling plays a major role in the spawning behaviors of both sardines and anchoveta. By spawning at the end of winter, egg and larval survival in greatly enhanced. This is due to the moderate upwelling, which causes lower turbulence, as well as a weakened Ekman drift offshore. These two species experience population shifts related to climate changes and environmental events such as El Niño. This is due to changes in the availability of each species habitat. Anchoveta are an important component in the diets of marine mammals, seabirds, and larger fish. Shifts in these populations ultimately cause a shift in the energy processing within the HCS.\n\nJack mackerel (jurel) is the second largest fishery in the HCS. As with the anchoveta in Peru, this species is believed to be composed of a single stock. Jurel are a straddling species. This means the species is found both within and outside of the 200-mile economic exclusive zone. Jurel became an important fishery in the 1970s to alleviate the pressure put on the anchoveta stock. During the 1980s, however, the jurel decreased in population size due to poor recruitment and overfishing. Restrictions of jurel fishing were imposed in 1998 which led to regrowth of the population. Since 2002, the jurel population is now under full exploitation.\n\nDuring the last 15 years, the hake fishery in Peru has declined significantly. This is due to overfishing, environmental stress, and decreased reproductive capacity. The Chilean hake population in central-south Chile catch exceeded 100,000 tons, and has since dropped to 40,000 tons in 2007.\n\nThe productivity of the HCS is strongly affected by El Niño and La Niña events. During an El Niño event, the thermocline and upper region of the OMZ deepen to greater than 600 m. This causes a loss of nitrogen and decrease in export of carbon. El Niño also causes poleward currents to increase in velocity. During non-El Niño years, productivity is very high due to the high nutrient contents, nitrogen recycling through processes such as denitrification, increased carbon export, and remineralization \n\nThe anchoveta fishery in Peru was booming during the 1960s. In 1970, catches were reported to exceed 12 million tons per year. This accounted for 20% of the world’s catches. An El Niño event occurred during 1972 and caused the anchoveta population to collapse. However, sardine populations saw a dramatic increase in the next 15–20 years. Consequently, sardine fisheries grew in this “regime shift”.\n\n"}
{"id": "24928237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24928237", "title": "John Robles", "text": "John Robles\n\nJohn Anthony Robles II (born 10 April 1966) is a journalist and presenter on the Voice of Russia the Russian government's international radio broadcasting service. He is the presenter of the English Language program \"Moscow Mailbag\" which answers questions from listeners all over the world on all aspects of the USSR and Russia.\n\nHe was born a US Citizen in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico being a US territory and is of Taino Indian extraction. \n\nJohn and his two American born children were granted full political asylum in the Russian Federation in 2007 after the US Embassy in Moscow revoked his US passport. \n\nJohn was the first US citizen to receive asylum in the Russian Federation. Although there are reports which state that both he and Edward Snowden have been granted political asylum in Russia, Edward Snowden was in fact only granted temporary asylum and then residency and does not have political asylum in the Russian Federation. John has since renounced his US citizenship and applied for Russian citizenship in 2010 along with his son John Anthony Robles III and daughter Kayla Marie Robles. \n\nRobles attended the Pennsylvania State University where he took an undergraduate course in Soviet Studies, majoring in the Russian Language. He taught at the BKC-Ih School for Foreign Languages in Moscow, Russia, for thirteen years.\n\nLiving in Moscow in March 2007 John Robles applied to have his US passport renewed at the US Embassy. His passport was revoked however and the embassy refused to issue him with a new one. An accusation was made that Robles owed child support in Yolo County California. Robles disputed this as he had full custody of his 2 children and had raised them on his own. He claimed neither he nor his children had been in the US since 1995. He had been issued a new passport previously in 1998 after it had been stolen. It was after his passport was revoked that he was granted political asylum in Russia. Robles had been running a political website critical of the actions of President George W. Bush and hosted in Russia since July 2003.\n"}
{"id": "3252617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252617", "title": "Lake Guatavita", "text": "Lake Guatavita\n\nLake Guatavita (Spanish: Laguna de Guatavita or Lago Guatavita) is located in the Cordillera Oriental of the Colombian Andes in the municipality of Sesquilé in the Almeidas Province, Cundinamarca department of Colombia, northeast of Bogotá, the capital of Colombia.\n\nThe lake is circular and has a surface area of 19.8 hectares. The earlier theories of the crater's origin being a meteorite impact, volcanic cinder, or limestone sinkhole are now discredited. The most likely explanation is that it resulted from the dissolution of underground salt deposits from an anticline, resulting in a kind of sinkhole.\n\nThere are hot springs nearby in the municipality of Sesquilé, which means \"hot water\" in the now-extinct language of Chibcha, once spoken by the local indigenous people, the Muisca.\n\nSpanish colonizers and Conquistadors knew about the existence of a sacred lake in the Eastern Ranges of the Andes possibly as early as 1531. The lake was associated with indigenous rituals involving gold. However, the first conquistador to arrive at the actual location was Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada, possibly in June 1537, while on an expedition to the highlands of the Eastern Ranges of the Andes in search of gold. This brought the Spanish into first contact with the Muisca inhabiting the Altiplano Cundiboyacense, including around Lake Guatavita.\n\nThe lake is now a focus of ecotourism, and its association with the legend of El Dorado is also a major attraction.\n\nThe name of the lake is derived from Chibcha, the language of the Muisca: \"gwa\": mountain or \"gwata\", \"gwate\": high elevation, or \"gwatibita\": high mountain peak; hence, a pool at a high mountain peak. Another meaning is \"End of the farmfields\".\n\nLake Guatavita was reputedly one of the sacred lakes of the Muisca, and a ritual conducted there is widely thought to be the basis for the legend of \"El Dorado\", \"the golden one\". The legend says the lake is where the Muisca celebrated a ritual in which the \"zipa\" (named \"El Dorado\" by the conquistadors) was covered in gold dust, and then, venturing out into the water on a ceremonial raft made of rushes, dove into the waters, washing off the gold. Afterward, trinkets, jewelry, and other precious offerings were thrown into the waters by worshipers. A few artifacts of gold and silver found at bottom hold proof to this claim; however, to date, attempts to drain the lake or salvage the gold (see Lake Guatavita gold) have yielded no more than these.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184302", "title": "Leucoxene", "text": "Leucoxene\n\nLeucoxene is a fine granular alteration product of titanium minerals. It varies in color from yellow to brown.\n\nIt consists mainly of rutile or anatase. It is observed in some igneous rocks and iron ore deposits as the result of the alteration of ilmenite, perovskite, or titanite.\n\n"}
{"id": "36621535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36621535", "title": "List of Award of Garden Merit sweet peas", "text": "List of Award of Garden Merit sweet peas\n\nThe following sweet pea cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. They are annuals grown as twining climbers, with flowers in pastel shades from white through pink to blue and deep purple. There are several bi-colours. Several cultivars are scented to a greater or lesser degree. Sweet peas can be badly affected by aphids, slugs and snails.\n"}
{"id": "28111354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28111354", "title": "List of Commelina species", "text": "List of Commelina species\n\nThis is an alphabetically ordered list of \"Commelina\" species. The list includes all species accepted by the \"World Checklist of Selected Plant Families\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5868283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5868283", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Lincolnshire", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Lincolnshire\n\nThis is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Lincolnshire. The English counties were revised under the 1974 reorganisation of local government, and were further revised in the 1990s. Natural England, which maintains the database of English SSSIs, did not update the counties to reflect changes after 1974 until around 2015. This list has not yet been updated, so some sites you may expect to find here could therefore be in the Humberside list.\n\nThis list features 76 SSSIs notable for their biology, fourteen notable for their geology and two notable for both. Five of the SSSIs include national nature reserves, four are Ramsar Wetland sites, and two are EU Special Protection Areas.\n\nFor other counties, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "15562637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15562637", "title": "List of ecoregions in Mauritania", "text": "List of ecoregions in Mauritania\n\nThe following is a list of ecoregions in Mauritania, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47220003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47220003", "title": "List of extremes in the sky", "text": "List of extremes in the sky\n\nThis article describes some extremes in the sky as a textual addition to the list of star extremes page.\n\nThe southern hemisphere consists of more 1st magnitude stars (mv brighter than +1.6) (12) than the northern (11).\n\nDue to precession this will change over the centuries, by AD 13800, Vega will be only 4 degrees from the North Pole, at the same time Canopus will be 10 degrees from the South pole. At that time, the number of bright stars in the northern hemisphere will be only 6 while 17 in the southern. Moreover, due to proper motion some nearby stars like Arcturus or Alpha Centauri will be displaced several degrees. About AD 6400 Alpha Centauri will pass 1 degree from Beta Centauri.\n\nAt BC 3400, Achernar was only 8 degrees from the South Pole.\n\nThe greatest concentration of bright stars is around Orion. Within a circle of 60 degrees radius around a point in Monoceros at RA 6:30, DE 5ºS, 11 stars of magnitude +1.6 or brighter occur: Capella, Pollux, Castor, Regulus, Procyon, Sirius, Adhara, Canopus, Rigel, Betelgeuse and Aldebaran. No other part of the sky consists of so many bright stars. The entire sky consists of 23 such stars.\nNarrowing the circle to 50 degrees and moving the center to the midway point of Capella and Canopus (a few degrees east of Orion's belt) will still consist of 9 stars leaving out only Regulus.\n\nWithin a much smaller circle of 10 degrees radius from Alnilam, the center Orion belt star, 5 stars of mag +2.2 or brighter occur of which 70 are available in the entire sky.\n\nThe most 'remote' 1st magnitude star from another 1st magnitude star is Fomalhaut which is nearest to Achernar (39 degrees) and Antares which is nearest to Alpha Centauri (also 39 degrees). All other 1st magnitude stars are closer than that angular distance to another 1st magnitude star.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58004269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004269", "title": "List of fountains in Naples", "text": "List of fountains in Naples\n\nThis is a list of the notable fountains in Naples, Italy. Naples has about sixty historical fountains and hundreds of smaller fountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "13194689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13194689", "title": "List of freshwater ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean", "text": "List of freshwater ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean\n\nThis is a list of freshwater ecoregions in Latin America and the Caribbean, as identified by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF).\n\nThe WWF divides the Earth's land surface into ecoregions, defined as \"large area[s] of land or water containing a distinct assemblage of natural communities and species\". Ecoregions are grouped into complexes and bioregions, defined as, \"a complex of ecoregions that share a similar biogeographic history, and thus often have strong affinities at higher taxonomic levels (e.g. genera, families).\" The Earth's land surface is divided into eight ecozones. Latin America corresponds, roughly, to the Neotropic ecozone, although northern Mexico lies within of the Nearctic.\n\nEach ecoregion is also classified into major habitat types, or biomes.\n\nMany consider this classification to be quite decisive, and some propose these as stable borders for bioregional democracy initiatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37881444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37881444", "title": "List of glaciers in the Antarctic", "text": "List of glaciers in the Antarctic\n\nThere are many glaciers in the Antarctic. This set of lists does not include ice sheets, ice caps or ice fields, such as the Antarctic ice sheet, but includes glacial features that are defined by their flow, rather than general bodies of ice. The lists include outlet glaciers, valley glaciers, cirque glaciers, tidewater glaciers and ice streams. Ice streams are a type of glacier and many of them have \"glacier\" in their name, e.g. Pine Island Glacier. Ice shelves are listed separately in the List of Antarctic ice shelves. For the purposes of these lists, the Antarctic is defined as any latitude further south than 60° (the continental limit according to the Antarctic Treaty System).\n\n\n\n</noinclude>"}
{"id": "7136356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7136356", "title": "List of major springs in Florida", "text": "List of major springs in Florida\n\nGeologists from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection claim that the U.S. state of Florida may have the largest convergence of freshwater springs on the planet, with over 700. Hydrological springs are naturally occurring places where water flows from the aquifer (underground) to the surface. There are springs located within 21 Florida State Parks.\n\nIn the 1800s, the crystal clear water attracted development; 14 Florida cities have \"Spring\" in their name. Spring names have been duplicated in different parts of the state, such as Gator and Salt; Blue Spring was so common that the county name was added to differentiate between the seven locations.\n\nThe first comprehensive study of Florida's springs was published in 1947. The next update was released 30 years later in the Florida Geological Survey Bulletin No. 31, Revised, \"Springs of Florida\". \nIn that 1977 Rosenau survey, there were sixteen offshore (under water) springs identified. All but two were situated on the Gulf coast. Since that time, scores of additional springs have been located and are being studied. The most recent compendium of spring data is contained in the 2004 publication, \n\"Florida Geological Survey Bulletin 66\", and identified 720 springs, of which 33 were first magnitude, 191 were second magnitude, and 151 were third magnitude. Springs are identified by type: river rise (RR) is where a river emerges after flowing underground for a distance; a single spring (SS) has one underground source, but may flow through multiple rock fissures; a group spring (GS) has multiple underground sources; a sink (SK) is an opening in the Earth's surface that occurs from karst processes and/or suffosion.\n\nVolume values listed are the most recent found, mostly after 2000, but water outflows have diminished significantly since the 1990s with drought conditions and increased pumping from the Floridan aquifer. Water flow diminished and stopped completely at several locations, including White Springs and Worthington Springs, where tourists flocked to drink and soak in the mineral water beginning in the late 1800s. The public water plant at Boulware Springs provided water for the city of Gainesville, Florida and the University of Florida until 1913, when reduced outflow required a new water source.\n\nMany of the springs listed herein are indicated as privately owned, which is a misnomer. \"Private individuals cannot 'own' a spring that is along/accessible from a \"navigable waterway\". They own the land around it above the normal high water mark.\" \nSince the 1972 Clean Water Act (CWA) defined the term \"navigable waters\", the meaning has been litigated. Following U.S. Supreme Court rulings, the Federal Register published EPA's final definition on November 26, 2008. Section (3) states: \"intrastate lakes, rivers, and streams which are utilized by interstate travelers for recreational or other purposes (are navigable waters). Courts have ruled that \"shallow streams that are traversable only by canoe have met the test\".\n\nNote: The table of contents only applies when the list is sorted by spring name. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15089261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15089261", "title": "List of plants poisonous to equines", "text": "List of plants poisonous to equines\n\nMany plants are poisonous to equines; the species vary depending on location, climate, and grazing conditions. In many cases, entire genera are poisonous to equines and include many species spread over several continents. Plants can cause reactions ranging from laminitis (found in horses bedded on shavings from black walnut trees), anemia, kidney disease and kidney failure (from eating the wilted leaves of red maples), to cyanide poisoning (from the ingestion of plant matter from members of the genus \"Prunus\") and other symptoms. Members of genus \"Prunus\" have also been theorized to be at fault for mare reproductive loss syndrome. Some plants, including yews, are deadly and extremely fast-acting. Several plants, including nightshade, become more toxic as they wilt and die, posing a danger to horses eating dried hay or plant matter blown into their pastures.\n\nThe risk of animals becoming ill during the fall is increased, as many plants slow their growth in preparation for winter, and equines begin to browse on the remaining plants. Many toxic plants are unpalatable, so animals avoid them where possible. However, this is not always the case; locoweeds, for example, are addictive and once a horse has eaten them, it will continue to eat them whenever possible, and can never be exposed to them again. When a toxic plant is ingested, it can be difficult to diagnose, because exposure over time can cause symptoms to occur after the animal is no longer exposed to the plant. Toxins are often metabolized before the symptoms become obvious, making it hard or impossible to test for them. Hungry or thirsty horses are more likely to eat poisonous plants, as are those pastured on overgrazed lands. Animals with mineral deficiencies due to poor diets will sometimes seek out poisonous plants. Poisonous plants are more of a danger to livestock after wildfires, as they often regrow more quickly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2700882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2700882", "title": "List of rivers of Ireland", "text": "List of rivers of Ireland\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of the main rivers in Ireland as a whole. It includes rivers that flow through the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Rivers that flow through Northern Ireland are marked with an asterisk (*). There are over 70,000 km of waterways in the Republic of Ireland contained in 3,192 river water bodies including rivers, streams, and tributaries. The major rivers have their length (in miles and kilometres) given. Also shown are two tables. \"Table 1\" shows the longest rivers in Ireland with their lengths (in miles and kilometres), the counties they flow through, and their catchment areas (in km). \"Table 2\" shows the largest rivers in Ireland (by mean flow) in cubic meters per second.\n\nLengths obtained from the Ordnance Survey of Ireland: \"Rivers and their Catchment Basins 1958\" (Table of Reference), and for the rivers Bann and Erne - \"Notes on River Basins\" by Robert A. Williams\na \n\nb \n\nc\n\nd \n\n TABLE 2\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22847853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847853", "title": "List of rivers of Suriname", "text": "List of rivers of Suriname\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Suriname.\n\nThis list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19973442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973442", "title": "Little River (South Carolina)", "text": "Little River (South Carolina)\n\nLittle River may refer to the following rivers in the U.S. state of South Carolina:\n\n"}
{"id": "752173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752173", "title": "Mare Desiderii", "text": "Mare Desiderii\n\nMare Desiderii (\"Sea of Dreams\") was an area of the Moon named after Luna 3 returned the first pictures of the far side. This name is derived from the Russian \"Море Мечты\", Mechta (\"Dream\") being the original name for the Luna 1 spacecraft.\n\nThis feature was later found to be composed of a smaller mare, Mare Ingenii (Sea of Ingenuity or Cleverness), and other dark craters. Today the IAU does not recognise the name \"Mare Desiderii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11000930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11000930", "title": "Maritime Forces Pacific", "text": "Maritime Forces Pacific\n\nIn the Canadian Forces, Maritime Forces Pacific (MARPAC, ) is responsible for the fleet training and operational readiness of the Royal Canadian Navy in the Pacific Ocean. It was once referred to as Canadian Pacific Station.\n\nThe commander of Maritime Forces Pacific (COMMARPAC) is also the commander of Joint Task Force Pacific (COMMJTFP), holding the rank of rear admiral.\nReporting to the commander is the commander of Canadian Fleet Pacific (COMCANFLTPAC), holding the rank of commodore. This officer commands Canadian Fleet Pacific (CANFLTPAC), and is responsible for the operation and readiness of all warships, auxiliaries and support vessels.\n\nMARPACHQ is located at CFB Esquimalt in Esquimalt, British Columbia, near Victoria.\n\nWhiskey 601 is the regularly used name for an often used naval weapons exercise area off the west coast of Canada. The area's official title was \"W-601\". The name was usually shortened to \"Whiskey\" by sailors in the Royal Canadian Navy. Whiskey 601 was notorious for rough seas and bad weather. Whiskey 601 was decommissioned as an exercise area in the 1990s.\n\n\nThe RCAF unit 443 Maritime Helicopter Squadron is part of 12 Wing Shearwater but is headquartered at Patricia Bay near CFB Esquimalt and works closely with MARPAC. The squadron provides the onboard helicopter detachments for CANFLTPAC ships.\n\n"}
{"id": "858340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858340", "title": "North Sea oil", "text": "North Sea oil\n\nNorth Sea oil is a mixture of hydrocarbons, comprising liquid petroleum and natural gas, produced from petroleum reservoirs beneath the North Sea.\n\nIn the petroleum industry, the term \"North Sea\" often includes areas such as the Norwegian Sea and the area known as \"West of Shetland\", \"the Atlantic Frontier\" or \"the Atlantic Margin\" that is not geographically part of the North Sea.\n\nBrent crude is still used today as a standard benchmark for pricing oil, although the contract now refers to a blend of oils from fields in the northern North Sea.\n\nCommercial extraction of oil on the shores of the North Sea dates back to 1851, when James Young retorted oil from torbanite (boghead coal, or oil shale) mined in the Midland Valley of Scotland. Across the sea in Germany, oil was found in the Wietze field near Hanover in 1859, leading to the discovery of seventy more fields, mostly in Lower Cretaceous and Jurassic reservoirs, producing a combined total of around 1340 m³ (8,400 barrels) per day.\n\nGas was found by chance in a water well near Hamburg in 1910, leading to minor gas discoveries in Zechstein dolomites elsewhere in Germany. In England, BP discovered gas in similar reservoirs in the Eskdale anticline in 1938, and in 1939 they found commercial oil in Carboniferous rocks at Eakring in Nottinghamshire. Discoveries elsewhere in the East Midlands lifted production to 400 m³ (2,500 barrels) per day, and a second wave of exploration from 1953 to 1961 found the Gainsborough field and ten smaller fields.\n\nThe Netherlands' first oil shows were seen in a drilling demonstration at De Mient during the 1938 World Petroleum Congress at The Hague. Subsequent exploration led to the 1943 discovery by Exploratie Nederland, part of the Royal Dutch/Shell company Bataafsche Petroleum Maatschappij, of oil under the Dutch village of Schoonebeek, near the German border. NAM found the Netherlands' first gas in Zechstein carbonates at Coevorden in 1948. 1952 saw the first exploration well in the province of Groningen, Haren-1, which was the first to penetrate the Lower Permian Rotliegendes sandstone that is the main reservoir for the gas fields of the southern North Sea, although in Haren-1 it contained only water. The Ten Boer well failed to reach target depth for technical reasons, but was completed as a minor gas producer from the Zechstein carbonates. The Slochteren-1 well found gas in the Rotliegendes in 1959, although the full extent of what became known as the Groningen gas field was not appreciated until 1963—it is currently estimated at ≈ recoverable gas reserves. Smaller discoveries to the west of Groningen followed.\n\nThe UK Continental Shelf Act came into force in May 1964. Seismic exploration and the first well followed later that year. It and a second well on the Mid North Sea High were dry, as the Rotliegendes was absent, but BP's \"Sea Gem\" rig struck gas in the West Sole Field in September 1965. The celebrations were shortlived since the Sea Gem sank, with the loss of 13 lives, after part of the rig collapsed as it was moved away from the discovery well. The Viking Gas Field was discovered in December 1965 with the Conoco/National Coal Board well 49/17-1, finding the gas-bearing Permian Rotliegend Sandstone at a depth of 2,756 m subsea. Helicopters were first used to transport workers. Larger gas finds followed in 1966—Leman Bank, Indefatigable and Hewett, but by 1968 companies had lost interest in further exploration of the British sector, a result of a ban on gas exports and low prices offered by the only buyer, British Gas. West Sole came onstream in May 1967. Licensing regulations for Dutch waters were not finalised until 1967.\n\nThe situation was transformed in December 1969, when Phillips Petroleum discovered oil in Chalk of Danian age at Ekofisk, in Norwegian waters in the central North Sea. The same month, Amoco discovered the Montrose Field about east of Aberdeen. BP had been awarded several licences in the area in the second licensing round late in 1965, but had been reluctant to work on them. The discovery of Ekofisk prompted them to drill what turned out to be a dry hole in May 1970, followed by the discovery of the giant Forties Oil Field in October 1970. The following year, Shell Expro discovered the giant Brent oilfield in the northern North Sea east of Shetland in Scotland and the Petronord Group discovered the Frigg gas field. The Piper oilfield was discovered in 1973 and the Statfjord Field and the Ninian Field in 1974, with the Ninian reservoir consisting of Middle Jurassic sandstones at a depth of 3000 m subsea in a \"westward tilted horst block\".\n\nOff shore production, like that of the North Sea, became more economical after the 1973 oil crisis caused the world oil price to quadruple, followed by the 1979 oil crisis, causing another tripling in the oil price. Oil production started from the Argyll & Duncan Oilfields (now the Ardmore) in June 1975 followed by Forties Oil Field in November of that year. The inner Moray Firth Beatrice Field, a Jurassic sandstone/shale reservoir 1829 m deep in a \"fault-bounded anticlinal trap\", was discovered in 1976 with well 11/30-1, drilled by the Mesa Petroleum Group (named after T. Boone Pickens' wife Bea, \"the only oil field in the North Sea named for a woman\") in 49 m of water.\nVolatile weather conditions in Europe's North Sea have made drilling particularly hazardous, claiming many lives (see Oil platform). The conditions also make extraction a costly process; by the 1980s, costs for developing new methods and technologies to make the process both efficient and safe, far exceeded NASA's budget to land a man on the moon. The exploration of the North Sea has been a story of continually pushing the edges of the technology of exploitation (in terms of what can be produced) and later the technologies of discovery and evaluation (2-D seismic, followed by 3-D and 4-D seismic; sub-salt seismic; immersive display and analysis suites and supercomputing to handle the flood of computation required). \n\nThe Gullfaks oil field was discovered in 1978. The Snorre Field was discovered in 1979, producing from the Triassic Lunde Formation and the Triassic-Jurassic Statfjord Formation, both fluvial sandstones in a mudstone matrix. The Oseberg oil field and Troll gas field were also discovered in 1979. The Miller oilfield was discovered in 1983. The Alba Field produces from sandstones in the middle Eocene Alba Formation at 1860 m subsea and was discovered in 1984 in UKCS Block 16/26. The Smorbukk Field was discovered in 1984 in 250–300 m of water that produces from Lower to Middle Jurassic sandstone formations within a fault block. The Snohvit Gas Field and the Draugen oil field were discovered in 1984. The Heidrun oil field was discovered in 1985.\n\nThe largest UK field discovered in the past 25 years is Buzzard, also located off Scotland, found in June 2001 with producible reserves of almost 64×10 m³ (400m bbl) and an average output of 28,600 m³ to 30,200 m³ (180,000-220,000 bbl) per day.\n\nThe largest field found in the past five years on the Norwegian part of the North Sea, is the Johan Sverdrup oil field which was discovered in 2010, with further oil of the same field was discovered the next year. Total reserves of the field are estimated at 1.7 to 3.3 billion barrels of gross recoverable oil and Johan Sverdrup is expected to produce 120,000 to 200,000 barrels of oil per day. Production start is planned to happen in 2018. It is one of the largest discoveries made in the Norwegian Continental Shelf.\n\n, the North Sea was the world's most active offshore drilling region with 173 active rigs drilling. By May 2016, the North Sea oil&gas industry was financially stressed by the , and called for government support.\n\nThe distances, number of workplaces and fierce weather push the 290,000 square miles (750,000 square kilometers) North Sea area to operate the world’s largest fleet of heavy instrument flight rules (IFR) helicopters, some specifically developed for the North Sea. They carry about two million passengers per year from 16 onshore bases, of which Aberdeen Airport is the world’s busiest with 500,000 passengers per year.\n\nFollowing the 1958 Continental shelf convention and after some disputes on the rights to natural resource exploitation the national limits of the exclusive economic zones were ratified.\nFive countries are involved in oil production in the North Sea. All operate a tax and royalty licensing regime. The respective sectors are divided by median lines agreed in the late 1960s:\n\nThe British and Norwegian sectors hold most of the remainder of the large oil reserves. It is estimated that the Norwegian sector alone contains 54% of the sea's oil reserves and 45% of its gas reserves.\nMore than half of the North Sea oil reserves have been extracted, according to official sources in both Norway and the UK. For Norway, the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate gives a figure of 4,601 million cubic metres of oil (corresponding to 29 billion barrels) for the Norwegian North Sea alone (excluding smaller reserves in Norwegian Sea and Barents Sea) of which 2,778 million cubic metres (60%) has already been produced prior to January 2007. UK sources give a range of estimates of reserves, but even using the most optimistic \"maximum\" estimate of ultimate recovery, 76% had been recovered as of the end of 2010. Note the UK figure includes fields which are not in the North Sea (onshore, West of Shetland).\n\nUnited Kingdom Continental Shelf production was 137 million tonnes of oil and 105 billion m³ of gas in 1999. (1 tonne of crude oil converts to 7.5 barrels). The Danish explorations of Cenozoic stratigraphy, undertaken in the 1990s, showed petroleum-rich reserves in the northern Danish sector, especially the Central Graben area. The Dutch area of the North Sea followed through with onshore and offshore gas exploration, and well creation.\n\nExact figures are debatable, because methods of estimating reserves vary and it is often difficult to forecast future discoveries.\n\nWhen it peaked in 1999, production of North Sea oil was nearly 950,000 m³ (6 million barrels) per day. Natural gas production was nearly 280×10 m³ (10 trillion cubic feet) in 2001; it continues to increase, although British gas production is in sharp decline.\n\nUK oil production has seen two peaks, in the mid-1980s and the late 1990s, with a decline to around 300×10 m³ (1.9 million barrels) per day in the early 1990s. Monthly oil production peaked at 13.5×10 m³ (84.9 million barrels) in January 1985 although the highest annual production was seen in 1999, with offshore oil production in that year of 407×10 m³ (398 million barrels) and had declined to 231×10 m³ (220 million barrels) in 2007. This was the largest decrease of any oil-exporting nation in the world, and has led to Britain becoming a net importer of crude for the first time in decades, as recognized by the energy policy of the United Kingdom. The production is expected to fall to one-third of its peak by 2020. Norwegian crude oil production as of 2013 is 1.4 mbpd. This is a more than 50% decline since the peak in 2001 of 3.2 mbpd.\n\nIn the North Sea, Norway's Equinor natural-gas platform Sleipner strips carbon dioxide out of the natural gas with amine solvents and disposes of this carbon dioxide by geological sequestration (\"Carbon sequestration\") while keeping up gas production pressure. Sleipner reduces emissions of carbon dioxide by approximately one million tonnes a year; that is about one-9000th of total emissions. The cost of geological sequestration is minor relative to the overall running costs. As of April 2005, BP is considering a trial of large-scale sequestration of carbon dioxide stripped from power plant emissions in the Miller oilfield as its reserves are depleted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79541", "title": "Oceanid", "text": "Oceanid\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Oceanids or Oceanides (; ) are the nymphs who were the three thousand (a number interpreted as meaning \"innumerable\") daughters of the Titans Oceanus and Tethys.\n\nThe Oceanids' father Oceanus was the great primordial world-encircling river, their mother Tethys was a sea goddess, and their brothers the Potamoi (also three thousand in number) were the personification of the great rivers of the world. Like the rest of their family, the Oceanid nymphs were associated with water, as the personification of springs. Hesiod says they are \"dispersed far and wide\" and everywhere \"serve the earth and the deep waters\", while in Apollonius of Rhodes' \"Argonautica\", the Argonauts, standed in the desert of Lybia, beg the \"nymphs, sacred of the race of Oceanus\" to show them \"some spring of water from the rock or some sacred flow gushing from the earth\".\n\nThe Oceanids are not easily categorized, nor confined to any single function, not even necessarily associated with water. \nThough most nymphs were considered to be minor deities, many Oceanids were significant figures. Metis, the personification of intelligence, was Zeus' first wife, whom Zeus impregnated with Athena and then swallowed. The Oceanids Amphitrite and Doris, like their mother Tethys, were important sea-goddess. While their brothers, the \"Potamoi\", were the usual personifications of major rivers, Styx (according to Hesiod the eldest and most important Oceanid) was also the personification of a major river, the underworld's river Styx. And some, like Europa, and Asia, seem associated with areas of land rather than water.\n\nThe Oceanids were also responsible for keeping watch over the young. According to Hesiod, who described them as \"neat-ankled daughters of Ocean ... children who are glorious among goddesses\", they are \"a holy company of daughters who with the lord Apollo and the Rivers have youths in their keeping—to this charge Zeus appointed them\"\n\nLike Metis, the Oceanids also functioned as the wives (or lovers) of many gods, and the mothers, by these gods, of many other gods and goddesses. Doris was the wife of the sea-god Nereus, and the mother of the fifty sea nymphs, the Nereids. Stix was the wife of the Titan Pallas, and mother the mother of Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia. Eurynome, Zeus' third wife, was the mother of the Charites. Clymene was the wife of the Titan Iapetus, and mother of Atlas, Menoetius, Prometheus, and Epimetheus. Electra was the wife of the sea god Thaumas and the mother of Iris and the Harpies. Other notable Oceanids include: Perseis, wife of the Titan sun god Helios and mother of Circe, and Aeetes the king of Colchis; Idyia, wife of Aeetes and mother of Medea; and Callirhoe, the wife of Chrysaor and mother of Geryon.\n\nAs a group, the Oceanids form the chorus of the tragedy \"Prometheus Bound\", coming up from their cave beneath the ground, to the console the chained Titan Prometheus. They were also the companions of Persephone when she was abducted by Hades.\n\nHesiod gives the names of 41 Oceanids, with other ancient sources providing many more. While some were important figures, most were not. Some were perhaps the names of actual springs, others merely poetic inventions. Some names, consistent with the Oceanids' charge of having \"youths in their keeping\", represent things which parents might hope to be bestowed upon their children: Plouto (\"Wealth\"), Tyche (\"Good Fortune\"), Idyia (\"Knowing\"), and Metis (\"Wisdom\"). Others appear to be geographical eponyms, such as Europa, Asia, Ephyra (Corinth), and Rhodos (Rhodes).\n\nSeveral of the names of Oceanids were also among the names given to the Nereids.\n\nSailors routinely honoured and entreated the Oceanids, dedicating prayers, libations and sacrifices to them. Appeals to them were made to protect seafarers from storms and other nautical hazards. Before they began their legendary voyage to Colchis in search of the Golden Fleece, the Argonauts made an offering of flour, honey and sea to the ocean deities, sacrificed bulls to them and entreated their protection from the dangers of their journey.\n\nJean Sibelius wrote an orchestral tone poem called \"Aallottaret\" (\"The Oceanides\") in 1914.\n\nThe Manchester-born painter Annie Swynnerton, the first woman to be admitted to the Royal Academy in 1922, painted a work called Oceanid some time before 1908. It shows a strong, unidealised female figure at one with nature, typical of Swynnerton's many depictions of 'real' women and her feminist politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3104334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104334", "title": "Relic particles", "text": "Relic particles\n\nRelic particles are superheavy particles hypothesized to be remnants of early cosmological expansion.\n\n"}
{"id": "52794196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52794196", "title": "Reverse weathering", "text": "Reverse weathering\n\nReverse weathering generally refers to the formation of a clay neoformation that utilizes cations and alkalinity in a process unrelated to the weathering of silicates. More specifically reverse weathering refers to the formation of authigenic clay minerals from the reaction of 1) biogenic silica with aqueous cations or cation bearing oxides or 2) cation poor precursor clays with dissolved cations or cation bearing oxides.\n\nFormation of cation abundant authigenic silicate clays is thought to occur through the following simplified reaction:Biogenic opal (SiO) + metal hydroxides (Al(OH)) + dissolved cations (K, Mg, Li, etc.) + bicarbonate (HCO) → clay minerals + HO + COThe formation of authigenic clay minerals by reverse weathering is not fully understood. Much of the research done has been conducted in localized areas, such as the Amazon delta, Mississippi delta, and in the Ethiopian Rift lakes, making a global understanding of the process difficult. Much of the driving force behind research into reverse weathering stems from constraining the chemical mass balance between rivers and oceans. Prior to the discovery of reverse weathering, the model of the chemical mass balance of the ocean predicted higher alkali metal and bicarbonate (HCO) concentrations than was observed. The formation of authigenic clay minerals was initially thought to account for the entirety of this excess, but the discovery of hydrothermal vents challenged this, as removal of alkali-alkaline earth metals and HCO from the ocean occurs in these locations as well.\n\nThe process and extent of reverse weathering has been inferred by several methods and proxies.\n\nIn-situ measurements of biogenic silica and silicic acid (a product of weathering) have been used to analyze the rate and extent reverse weathering occurs within in an aquatic system. Uptake of biogenic silica as a result of reverse weathering would be observed as a relative low concentration of dissolved SiO compared to the overlying water.\n\nLaboratory observations of reverse weathering have been conducted using incubations and flow through reactors to measure opal dissolution rates The clay was studied using scanning electron microscopes, x-ray, and transmission electron microscopes. It was observed that the clay formed quickly, and using this amount of time and the known content of the sediment, concentration of potassium ions consumed by this process in rivers around the globe was estimated.\n\nLaboratory experiments can also include incubation experiments, in which sediment samples obtained from natural environments are enclosed in sealable containers with varied concentrations reverse weathering reactants (biogenic silica in the form of diatoms, cations, metals, etc.).\n\nUsing an inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) also provides concentration and isotopic information for cation and silica concentrations in pore water and digested sediment samples. Utilization of a multi-collector inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (MC-ICP-MS) is also used as a means of obtaining isotopic data of metals and silica in solution.\n\nLithium isotope concentration within planktonic foraminifera has been used to infer past changes in silicate and reverse weathering rates over the last 68 million years. Removal of lithium from seawater is mainly dependent on its assimilation within marine sediments and variations are believed to be indicative of the relative rates of silicate weathering and reverse weathering, in addition to other factors. Foraminifera with low lithium content suggest that reverse weathering may have been more prominent during that time period.\n\nFormation of authigenic silicate clays through reverse weathering was shown to be thermodynamically favorable during studies of Amazon delta sediments. Primary controls on the formation of authigenic silicate clays are on the supply of reactants in solution. Areas of limited biogenic opal, metal hydroxides (e.g. aluminate (Al(OH))), or dissolved cations limit production of authigenic silicate clays. Metals, cations, and silica are largely supplied by the weathering of terrigenous materials, which influences the thermodynamic favorability of reverse weathering.\n\nKinetically, formation of clay minerals by reverse weathering can be relatively rapid (<1 year). Due to the short formation timescale, reverse weathering is seen as a reasonable contributor to various ocean biogeochemical cycles.\n\nThe process of creating authigenic clay minerals through reverse weathering releases carbon dioxide (CO). However, release of bicarbonate by silicate weathering exceeds the quantities of CO produced by reverse weathering. Therefore, while reverse weathering does increase CO during production of authigenic clay minerals, it is overwhelmed by the concentration of HCO in the system, and will not have a significant effect on local pH.\nIn recent years, the effect of reverse weathering on biogenic silica has been of great interest in quantifying the silica cycle. During weathering, dissolved silica is delivered to oceans through glacial runoff and riverine inputs. This dissolved silica is taken up by a multitude of marine organisms, such as diatoms, and is used to create protective shells. When these organisms die, they sink through the water column. Without active production of biogenic SiO, the mineral begins diagenesis. Conversion of this dissolved silica into authigenic silicate clays through the process of reverse weathering constitutes a removal of 20-25% of silicon input.\n\nReverse weathering is often found to occur in river deltas as these systems have high sediment accumulation rates and are observed to undergo rapid diagenesis. The formation of silicate clays removes reactive silica from the pore waters of sediment, increasing the concentration of silica found in the rocks that form in these locations.\n\nSilicate weathering also appears to be a dominant process in deeper methanogenic sediments, whereas reverse weathering is more common in surface sediments, but still occurs at a lower rate.\n\nIn the Amazon river delta, about 90% of buried SiO is used up during reverse weathering, while the creation of potassium ions in this location is about 2.8 μmol g year. Nearly 7-10% of the potassium input from the Amazon River is removed from the ocean by the formation of potassium-iron rich aluminosilicates. In the Mississippi river delta about 40% of SiO that is buried in the sediment is converted to authigenic aluminosilicates. The major difference in the two deltas is due to the sediments in the amazon delta being subject to a number of erosional and depositional processes, which creates an abundant amount of Fe oxides. Sediment typically resides in the region for 30 years on average, but the upper layer undergoes major physical reworking 1-2 times per year. Pore water data suggests that the formation of authigenic clays in the Amazon delta occur on the order of a few months to a few years. The limiting reactant of clay formation in this region is the quantity of available SiO since the river water generally has a high concentration of other reactants, such as iron, potassium, magnesium, and aluminum. Whereas in the Mississippi delta, the limiting nutrient for these reactions is Fe.\n\nReverse weathering in the Ethiopian Rift lakes is easily observable, and recent studies at this location have been used to make inference on the extent of the process in the ocean. One study suggests that there is a general alkalinity deficit in the lakes, and that a little over half of this deficit can be attributed to the formation of aluminosilicate minerals. The precipitation of salts is not profound, making the development of these clay minerals by reverse weathering more readily observable in comparison to the ocean. Using clay formation rates in the Ethiopian Rift lakes as a basis, the study suggests that clay formation in the ocean is too high to entirely attribute to the process of reverse weathering. It is believed that the deep-sea reverse weathering process never reaches completion, as pH is generally low. Hydrothermal activity is suggested to be a major contributor to clay formation in the deep ocean.\n\nSome hypothesize that hydrothermal vents may be a prominent source of reverse weathering. For some time, it was posited that terrestrial fluvial input was the only source of dissolved salts for the ocean. Later it was found that hydrothermal vents play a key role in the salinity of the oceans by releasing torrents of dissolved minerals that come from water/rock interactions. At these locations, some dissolved salts react with rock and are removed, thus changing the ion composition of the seawater in comparison to the hydrothermal fluid.Some researchers hypothesize that reverse weathering could play a role in the silica cycle at hydrothermal vents. Low temperature hydrothermal vents release silicic acid (DSi) from the Earth's crust, and before it is able to exit the seabed, it cools and precipitates out as clay, such as a smectite. The extent to which reverse weathering at hydrothermal vents adds to the overall silica cycle is a hot topic.\n\nIn 1933, Victor Moritz Goldschmidt first proposed a reaction where igneous rock and volatiles would interact to generate sediments and seawater. Lars Gunnar Sillén would later propose that reactions involving the generation of silicates potentially played a role in controlling the composition and pH of seawater in 1959. At the time of Sillén's proposal, the thermodynamic constants of clay mineral reactions were not known and there were very few thermodynamic indicators that such a reaction existed. Frederick Mackenzie and Robert Garrels would then combine Goldschmidt's and Sillén's work with the concept of reconstitution reactions to derive the reverse weathering hypothesis in 1966. Since then, reverse weathering has been used as a possible explanation for various marine environment reactions and observations.\n\nToday, there is much debate over the significance of reverse weathering. The global extent of the process has not yet been measured, but inferences can be made by using specific local examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "82162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82162", "title": "Salmacis", "text": "Salmacis\n\nIn Greek mythology, Salmacis () was an atypical naiad who rejected the ways of the virginal Greek goddess Artemis in favour of vanity and idleness. Her attempted rape of Hermaphroditus places her as the only nymph rapist in the Greek mythological canon (though see also Dercetis).\n\nIn Ovid's Metamorphoses, she becomes one with Hermaphroditus, and Hermaphroditus curses the fountain to have the same effect on others.\n\nSalmacis fountain is located near the ancient Mausoleum of Halicarnassus, and it is now a tourist attraction located in present-day Bodrum, Turkey. The waters of Salmacis fountain were said to have relaxing properties. Although excellent to drink, in classical times, it was thought to have the effect of making men effeminate and soft. Ovid creates or recounts the myth of how the fountain came to be so in the story of Hermaphroditus and Salmacis. The following passage by Vitruvius gives a different story:\n\nIn 1995, The Salmakis Inscription was discovered by Turkish authorities. A partially damaged but mainly well preserved inscription cut into an ancient wall. It was a poem in elegiac verse. The first lines form the poet’s invocation of the goddess Aphrodite. Early in Aphrodite’s story we encounter her son Hermaphroditus, as well as the water nymph Salmacis. The inscription was written sometime during the Hellenistic period.\n\n\nFrancis Beaumont, a poet and playwright, wrote a poem \"Salmacis and Hermaphroditus\" based on Ovid's work. The poem was published anonymously in London in 1602.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19286361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286361", "title": "Smith River (Oregon)", "text": "Smith River (Oregon)\n\nSmith River in the U.S. state of Oregon may refer to one of three streams:\n\n"}
{"id": "22251666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22251666", "title": "Struve 1694", "text": "Struve 1694\n\nStruve 1694 (Σ 1694, Struve 1694) is a double star in the constellation Camelopardalis.\n\nΣ 1694 is a double star, with components of magnitudes 5.3 and 5.9:\n\nNorton's Star Atlas describes the pair as yellowish and bluish.\n\nΣ 1694 was also known as 32H. Camelopardalis, Hevelius' 32nd of Camelopardalis. It is not Flamsteed's \"32 Camelopardalis\", which is ξ Aurigae. In the \"British Association Catalogue\", the star pair are listed as being in Ursa Minor.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"North Pole\", refers to an asterism consisting of Σ 1694, γ Ursae Minoris, β Ursae Minoris, 5 Ursae Minoris and 4 Ursae Minoris. Consequently, Σ 1694 itself is known as (, .), representing (), meaning \"Celestial Pivot\".\n"}
{"id": "20176612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20176612", "title": "Tellus A", "text": "Tellus A\n\nTellus Series A: Dynamic Meteorology and Oceanography is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that is published by Co-action Publishing on behalf of the International Meteorological Institute in Stockholm, Sweden. Since January 2012, the journal is published open access. Until that time it had been published as a subscription journal by Blackwell Munksgaard. The journal publishes original articles, short contributions and correspondence encompassing dynamic meteorology, climatology and oceanography, including numerical modelling, synoptic meteorology, weather forecasting, and climate analysis.\n\n\"Tellus A\" is the companion to \"Tellus Series B: Chemical and Physical Meteorology\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4180483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4180483", "title": "Temple elephant", "text": "Temple elephant\n\nTemple elephants are a type of captive elephant. Many major temples own elephants; others hire or are donated elephants during the festive seasons. Temple elephants are usually wild animals, poached from the forests of North East India from wild herds at a young age and then sold into captivity to temples. Their treatment in captivity has been the subject of controversy and condemnation by some , while others claim that elephants form a vital part of the socio-economic framework of many temple ceremonies and festivals in India, particularly in the South. \n\nThe largest elephant farm in India is Punnathurkotta of the temple of Guruvayur; it has about 59 captive elephants; it currently houses 58 captive elephants, of which 53 are adult males and 5 are females. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40617336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40617336", "title": "Tokarevskoye gas condensate field", "text": "Tokarevskoye gas condensate field\n\nThe Tokarevskoye gas condensate field, 80 km west of Uralsk, consists of four individual accumulations whose productivity is proved by several wells. Gas water surface of some deposits range between 2776–2082 m.\n"}
{"id": "26821712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26821712", "title": "Tsunamis in lakes", "text": "Tsunamis in lakes\n\nA tsunami is defined as a series of water waves caused by the displacement of a large volume of a body of water; in the case of this article the body of water being investigated will be a lake rather than an ocean. Tsunamis in lakes are becoming increasingly important to investigate as a hazard, due to the increasing popularity for recreational uses, and increasing populations that inhabit the shores of lakes. Tsunamis generated in lakes and reservoirs are of high concern because it is associated with a near field source region which means a decrease in warning times to minutes or hours.\n\nInland tsunami hazards can be generated by many different types of earth movement. Some of these include earthquakes in or around lake systems, landslides, debris flow, rock avalanches, and glacier calving. Volcanogenic processes such as gas and mass flow characteristics are discussed in more detail below.\n\nTsunamis in lakes can be generated by fault displacement beneath or around lake systems. Faulting shifts the ground in a vertical motion through reverse, normal or oblique strike slip faulting processes, this displaces the water above causing a tsunami (Figure 1). The reason strike-slip faulting does not cause tsunamis is because there is no vertical displacement within the fault movement, only lateral movement resulting in no displacement of the water. In an enclosed basin such as a lake, tsunamis are referred to as the initial wave produced by coseismic displacement from an earthquake, and the seiche as the harmonic resonance within the lake.\n\nIn order for a tsunami to be generated certain criteria is required:\n\nThese tsunamis are of high damage potential due to being within a lake, making them of a near field source. This means a vast decrease in warning times, resulting in organised emergency evacuations after the generation of the tsunami being virtually impossible, and due to low lying shores even small waves lead to substantial flooding. Planning and education of residents needs to be done beforehand, so that when an earthquake is felt they know to head to higher ground and what routes to take to get there.\n\nLake Tahoe is an example of a lake that is in danger of having a tsunami due to faulting processes. Lake Tahoe in California and Nevada USA lies within an intermountain basin bounded by faults, with most of these faults at the lake bottom or hidden in glaciofluvial deposits. Lake Tahoe has had many prehistoric eruptions and in studies of the lake bottom sediments, a 10m high scarp has displaced the lake bottom sediments, indicating that the water was displaced by the same magnitude, as well as generating a tsunami. A tsunami and seiche in Lake Tahoe can be treated as shallow-water long waves as the maximum water depth is much smaller than the wavelength. This demonstrates the interesting impact that lakes have on the tsunami wave characteristics, as it is very different from ocean tsunami wave characteristics due to the ocean being deeper, and lakes being relatively shallow in comparison. With ocean tsunami waves amplitudes only increase when the tsunami gets close to shore, in lake tsunami waves are generated and stay in a shallow environment.\n\nThis would have a major impact on the 34,000 permanent residences along the lake, not to mention the impact on tourism in the area. Tsunami run-ups would leave areas near the lake inundated due to permanent ground subsidence attributed to the earthquake, with the highest run-ups and amplitudes being attributed to the seiches rather than the actual tsunami. The reason seiches cause so much damage is due to resonance within the bays reflecting the waves where they combine to make larger standing waves. For more information see seiches. Lake Tahoe also experienced a massive collapse of the western edge of the basin that formed McKinney Bay around 50,000 years ago. Is thought to have generated a tsunami/seiche wave with a height approaching .\n\nSub-aerial mass flows (landslides or rapid mass wasting) happen when a large amount of sediment becomes unstable, this can happen for example from the shaking from an earthquake, or saturation of the sediment initiating a sliding layer. This volume of sediment then flows into the lake giving a sudden large displacement of water. Tsunamis generated by sub aerial mass flows are defined in terms of the first initial wave being the tsunami wave and any tsunamis in terms of sub aerial mass flows are characterised into three zones. A splash zone or wave generation zone, this is the region were landslides and water motion are coupled and it extends as far as the landslide travels. Near field area, were the concern is based on the characteristics of the tsunami wave such as amplitude and wavelength which are crucial for predictive purposes. Far field area, the process is influenced mainly by dispersion characteristics and is not often used when investigating tsunamis in lakes, as most lake tsunamis are related only to near field processes.\n\nA modern example of a landslide into a reservoir lake, overtopping a dam, occurred in Italy with the Vajont Dam disaster in 1963. Evidence exists in paleoseismological evidence and other sedimentary core sample proxies of catastrophic rock failures of landslide-triggered lake tsunamis worldwide, including in Lake Geneva during AD 563.\n\nIn the event of the Alpine fault in New Zealand rupturing in the South Island, it is predicted that there would be shaking of approximately magnitude eight in the lake side towns of Queenstown (Lake Wakatipu) and Wanaka (Lake Wanaka). These could possibly cause sub-aerial mass flows that could generate tsunamis within the lakes, this would have a devastating impact on the 28,224 residents (2013 New Zealand census) who occupy these lake towns, not only in the potential losses of life and property, but the damage to the booming tourism industry would take years to rebuild.\n\nThe Otago Regional Council, responsible for the area, has recognised that in such an event, tsunamis could occur in both lakes.\n\nIn this article the focus is on tsunamis generated in lakes by volcanogenic processes in terms of gas build up causing violent lake over turns, with other processes such as pyroclastic flows not accounted for, as it requires more complex modelling . Lake overturns can be incredibly dangerous and occur when gas trapped at the bottom of the lake is heated by rising magma causing an explosion and lake overturn; an example of this is Lake Kivu.\n\nLake Kivu, one of the African Great Lakes, lies on the border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, and is part of the East Africa Rift. Being part of the rift means it is affected by volcanic activity beneath the lake. This has led to a buildup of methane and carbon dioxide at the bottom of the lake, which can lead to violent limnic eruptions.\n\nLimnic eruptions (also called \"lake over turns\") are due to volcanic interaction with the water at the bottom of the lake that has high gas concentrations, this leads to heating of the lake and this rapid rise in temperature would spark a methane explosion displacing a large amount of water, followed nearly simultaneously by a release of carbon dioxide. This carbon dioxide would suffocate large numbers of people, with a possible tsunami generated from water displaced by the gas explosion affecting all of the 2 million people who occupy the shores of Lake Kivu. This is incredibly important as the warning times for an event such as a lake overturn is incredibly short in the order of minutes and the event itself may not even be noticed. Education of locals and preparation is crucial in this case and a lot of research in this area has been done in order to try to understand what is happening within the lake, in order to try to reduce the effects when this phenomenon does happen.\n\nA lake turn-over in Lake Kivu occurs from one of two scenarios. Either (1) up to another hundred years of gas accumulation leads to gas saturation in the lake, resulting in a spontaneous outburst of gas originating at the depth at which gas saturation has exceeded 100%, or (2) a volcanic or even seismic event triggers a turn-over. In either case a strong vertical lift of a large body of water results in a plume of gas bubbles and water rising up to and through the water surface. As the bubbling water column draws in fresh gas-laden water, the bubbling water column widens and becomes more energetic as a virtual \"chain reaction\" occurs which would look like a watery volcano. Very large volumes of water are displaced, vertically at first, then horizontally away from the centre at surface and horizontally inwards to the bottom of the bubbling water column, feeding in fresh gas-laden water. The speed of the rising column of water increases until it has the potential to rise 25m or more in the centre above lake level. The water column has the potential to widen to well in excess of a kilometre, in a violent disturbance of the whole lake. The watery volcano may take as much as a day to fully develop while it releases upwards of 400 billion cubic metres of gas (~12tcf). Some of these parameters are uncertain, particularly the time taken to release the gas and the height to which the water column can rise. As a secondary effect, particularly if the water column behaves irregularly with a series of surges, the lake surface will both rise by up to several metres and create a series of tsunamis or waves radiating away from the epicentre of the eruption. Surface waters may simultaneously race away from the epicentre at speeds as high as 20-40m/second, slowing as distances from the centre increase. The size of the waves created is unpredictable. Wave heights will be highest if the water column surges periodically, resulting in wave heights is great as 10-20m. This is caused by the ever-shifting pathway that the vertical column takes to the surface. No reliable model exists to predict this overall turnover behaviour. For tsunami precautions it will be necessary for people to move to high ground, at least 20m above lake level. A worse situation may pertain in the Ruzizi River where a surge in lake level would cause flash-flooding of the steeply sloping river valley dropping 700m to Lake Tanganyika, where it is possible that a wall of water from 20-50m high may race down the gorge. Water is not the only problem for residents of the Kivu basin; the more than 400 billion cubic metres of gas released creates a denser-than-air cloud which may blanket the whole valley to a depth of 300m or more. The presence of this opaque gas cloud, which would suffocate any living creatures with its mixture of carbon dioxide and methane laced with hydrogen sulphide, would cause the majority of casualties. Residents would be advised to climb to at least 400m above the lake level to ensure their safety. Strangely the risk of a gas explosion is not great as the gas cloud is only about 20% methane in carbon dioxide, a mixture that is difficult to ignite.\n\nAt 11:24 PM on 21 July 2014, in a period experiencing an earthquake swarm related to the upcoming eruption of Bárðarbunga, an 800m-wide section gave way on the slopes of the Icelandic volcano Askja. Beginning at 350m over water height, it caused a tsunami 20–30 meters high across the caldera, and potentially larger at localized points of impact. Thanks to the late hour, no tourists were present; however, search and rescue observed a steam cloud rising from the volcano, apparently geothermal steam released by the landslide. Whether geothermal activity played a role in the landslide is uncertain. A total of 30-50 million cubic meters was involved in the landslide, raising the caldera's water level by 1–2 meters.\n\nHazard mitigation for tsunamis in lakes is immensely important in the preservation of life, infrastructure and property. In order for hazard management of tsunamis in lakes to function at full capacity there are four aspects that need to be balanced and interacted with each other, these are:\n\n\nWhen all these aspects are taken into consideration and continually managed and maintained, the vulnerability of an area to a tsunami within the lake decreases. This is not because the hazard itself has decreased but the awareness of the people who would be affected makes them more prepared to deal with the situation when it does occur. This reduces recovery and response times for an area, decreasing the amount of disruption and in turn the effect the disaster has on the community.\n\nInvestigation into the phenomena of tsunamis in lakes for this article was restricted by certain limitations. Internationally there has been a fair amount of research into certain lakes but not all lakes that can be affected by the phenomenon have been covered. This is especially true for New Zealand with the possible occurrence of tsunamis in the major lakes recognised as a hazard, but with no further research completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79452", "title": "Viruses of the Mind", "text": "Viruses of the Mind\n\n\"Viruses of the Mind\" is an essay by British evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, first published in the book \"Dennett and His Critics: Demystifying Mind\" (1993). Dawkins originally wrote the essay in 1991 and delivered it as a Voltaire Lecture on 6 November 1992 at the Conway Hall Humanist Centre. The essay discusses how religion can be viewed as a meme, an idea previously expressed by Dawkins in \"The Selfish Gene\" (1976). Dawkins analyzes the propagation of religious ideas and behaviors as a memetic virus, analogous to how biological and computer viruses spread. The essay was later published in \"A Devil's Chaplain\" (2003) and its ideas are further explored in the television programme, \"The Root of All Evil?\" (2006).\n\nDawkins defines the \"symptoms\" of being infected by the \"virus of religion\", providing examples for most of them, and tries to define a connection between the elements of religion and its survival value (invoking Zahavi's handicap principle of sexual selection, applied to believers of a religion). Dawkins also describes religious beliefs as \"mind-parasites\", and as \"gangs <nowiki>[that]</nowiki> will come to constitute a package, which may be sufficiently stable to deserve a collective name such as Roman Catholicism ... or ... component parts to a single virus\".\n\nDawkins suggests that religious belief in the \"faith-sufferer\" typically shows the following elements:\n\nDawkins stresses his claim that religious beliefs do not spread as a result of evidence in their support, but typically by cultural transmission, in most cases from parents or from charismatic individuals. He refers to this as involving \"epidemiology, not evidence\". Further Dawkins distinguishes this process from the spread of scientific ideas, which, he suggests, is constrained by the requirement to conform with certain virtues of standard methodology: \"testability, evidential support, precision, quantifiability, consistency, intersubjectivity, repeatability, universality, progressiveness, independence of cultural milieu, and so on\". He points out that faith \"spreads despite a total lack of every single one of these virtues\".\n\nAlister McGrath, a Christian theologian, has also commented critically on Dawkins' analysis, suggesting that \"memes have no place in serious scientific reflection\", that there is strong evidence that such ideas are not spread by random processes, but by deliberate intentional actions, that \"evolution\" of ideas is more Lamarckian than Darwinian, and suggests there is no evidence that epidemiological models usefully explain the spread of religious ideas. McGrath also cites a metareview of 100 studies and argues that \"If religion is reported as having a positive effect on human well-being by 79% of recent studies in the field, how can it conceivably be regarded as analogous to a virus?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27380659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27380659", "title": "Vitrophyre", "text": "Vitrophyre\n\nVitrophyre is a volcanic rock with a porphyritic texture in which larger crystals (phenocrysts) are embedded in a glassy groundmass.\n"}
{"id": "2343535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2343535", "title": "William Hodges", "text": "William Hodges\n\nWilliam Hodges RA (28 October 1744 – 6 March 1797) was an English painter. He was a member of James Cook's second voyage to the Pacific Ocean, and is best known for the sketches and paintings of locations he visited on that voyage, including Table Bay, Tahiti, Easter Island, New Zealand, Dusky Sound and the Antarctic.\n\nHodges was born on 28 October 1744 in London. He studied under William Shipley, and afterwards in the studio of Richard Wilson, where he met Thomas Jones.\n\nDuring his early career, he made a living by painting theatrical scenery.\n\nBetween 1772 and 1775 Hodges accompanied James Cook to the Pacific as the expedition's artist. Many of his sketches and wash paintings were adapted as engravings in the original published edition of Cook's journals from the voyage.\n\nMost of the large-scale landscape oil paintings from his Pacific travels for which Hodges is best known were finished after his return to London; he received a salary from the Admiralty for the purposes of completing them. These paintings depicted a stronger light and shadow than had been usual in European landscape tradition. Contemporary art critics complained that his use of light and colour contrasts gave his paintings a rough and unfinished appearance.\n\nHodges also produced many valuable portrait sketches of Pacific islanders and scenes from the voyage involving members of the expedition.\n\nIn 1778, under the patronage of Warren Hastings, Hodges travelled to India, one of the first British professional landscape painters to visit that country. He remained there for six years, staying in Lucknow with Claude Martin in 1783.\nHis painting of \"Futtypoor Sicri\" is in Sir John Soane's Museum.\n\nLater Hodges travelled across Europe, including a visit to St. Petersburg in Russia in 1790.\n\nIn 1793 Hodges published an illustrated book about his travels in India.\n\nIn December 1794 Hodges opened an exhibition of twenty-five of his own works at Orme's Gallery, 14 Old Bond Street, London that included two large paintings called \"The Effects of Peace\" and \"The Effects of War\". In late January, 1795, with Britain engaged in the War of the First Coalition against Revolutionary France and feelings running high, the exhibition was visited by Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany, the second son of King George III. The Duke took offence at the political nature of Hodges' paintings and ordered the exhibition closed; this royal censure effectively ended Hodges' career as a painter. Many of his works were then sold by auction but produced only an inconsiderable sum.\n\nHodges retired to Devon and became involved with a bank, which failed during the banking crisis of March, 1797. On 6 March of that year, he died from what was officially recorded as \"gout in the stomach\", but which was also rumoured to be suicide from an overdose of laudanum.\n\nHodges Knoll in Antarctica is named after William Hodges.\n\nOn 11 May, 1776, Hodges married Martha Bowden Nesbit, the daughter of William and Jane Nesbit, at St George’s, Hanover Square, London. The couple settled in Pimlico. They undertook a tour of Wales and the Midlands, during which they visited Derby, where Joseph Wright painted a portrait of Martha Hodges. Sadly, Martha died within a year, possibly during childbirth. Having finished his work for the Admiralty, and with the death of his wife, Hodges was free to travel. \n\nHodges left India in November 1783, in Worcester. This ship was nearly wrecked at St. Helena, but reached Britain in June 1784. Hodges is reputed to have returned a rich man, and settled in Queen Street, Mayfair, where he built himself a studio. He brought home with him a son, James. Hodges’ mother looked after her new grandson in a house in Tunbridge Wells, which Hodges purchased.\n\nWilliam Hodges began preparing a collection, Select Views in India in the Years 1780–1783, that included a series of forty-eight aquatints adapted from sketches drawn in India. On 16 October, 1784, again at St George’s, Hanover Square, Hodges married his second wife, Lydia Wright. Lydia was the niece of John Whitehurst from Derby. Unfortunately, she too died after only a few months of marriage, possibly from alcoholism.\n\nn December 1785, Hodges married for a third time. It was to Ann Mary Carr, a talented pianist, and the oldest of the five children of Benjamin and Elizabeth Carr. Her parents were already deceased when she married Hodges. At about the same time, Hodges was listed as the guardian of Ann Mary’s brother, John, later a famous travel writer. They would have two daughters and three sons together. Hodges was elected a member of the Royal Academy in 1789, and continued to exhibit there until 1794. After experiencing financial diffi-culties, he made an unsuccessful trip to seek patronage in Russia in 1792. On his return, in February, 1793, Hodges published his account of his time in India, entitled Travels in India in the Years 1780, 1781, 1782 and 1783, illustrated with plates derived from his drawings.\n\nIn December 1794, Hodges held a private exhibition of 25 of his pictures in old Bond Street, London. Remarkably, it received no subscription, and made no sales, forcing Hodges to close it by 26 January, 1795.\n\nTotally disillusioned, Hodges retired from his profession, sold his London property, and moved himself and his family, in July, 1795, to Brixham and Dartmouth in South Devon. There, he attempted to restore his fortunes by becoming a partner in a small bank at Dartmouth. His partner was Thomas Gretton, a lawyer. Also present in South Devon was Gretton’s brother, the Reverend George Gretton. The Grettons were the nephews of John and Elizabeth Whitehurst of Derby, further evidence of the family connections with the town.The bank opened in Dartmouth on the 24th August, 1795, and the following is an extract from the Exeter Flying Post dated the 1st October, 1795:\n\n\"The public are hereby informed that on this day Bank was opened at Dartmouth in the county of Devon under the firm of J. Seale, Hodges, Gretton and Ful where business will be transacted with the greatest punctuality. Dartmouth, 24th August, 1795.\"\n\nBanknotes, dated 24 August, 1795, exist, issued by Hodges and Thomas Gretton & Co., payable on demand in Dartmouth or at their London agents, Walwyn, Petrie, Ward and McGregor. The bank would soon be known as the Dartmouth Bank and incorporated the Arms of Dartmouth on a shield on its notes. In October, 1795, new partners were added, probably to inject new capital into the bank. They were John Seale, a local landowner, and William Tult. \n\nJohn Seale was a very influential person in Dartmouth at the time, holding extensive property and land both in and around Dartmouth. Thomas Gretton was a practising attorney in the town. Not unlike many other banks of the period, there appear to have been problems from quite soon after the bank's inception. The ongoing war with France had severe effects on Dartmouth, and this, together with a stoppage of payments at the Bank of England, caused a run on the bank in March 1797. The Exeter Flying Post of the 13th September, 1798, has an official notice relating to Thomas Gretton's personal bankruptcy. John Seale, however, appears to have come out of this affair with his reputation unscathed as both he and his descendants remained very influential in the area throughout the 19th century.\n\nHodges died at 10.00 a.m. on Monday, 6th March, 1797. The cause of death, as rumour would have it locally, was through an overdose of laudanum, which Hodges used as medication to treat his stomach gout. Whether the overdose was accidental or deliberate we shall probably never know for certain. However, we do know that he was under severe stress at the time caused by his own parlous financial situation and the impending collapse of the bank, both of which appeared intertwined. The Burial Register of St. Mary's Church, Brixham records William Hodges, burial 13th March, 1797. No headstone has been found.\n\nIn spite of his financial problems, he nevertheless appeared to be liked and well respected, both locally and farther afield. As a young man, both Cook and Wales enjoyed his company during the three years that he spent on the Resolution on Cook's second epic voyage, and Cook greatly admired the young painter's sea and landscapes of the voyage. The \"Gentleman's Magazine\" reported of his death in 1797 as follows:\n\n\"Of the gout in his stomach, William Hodges Esq. R. A. of Brixham, Devon; a man of varied and considerable knowledge in his art. If he did not rise to the summit of landscape painting, there were in general strength, correctness, and taste in his productions. His paintings and drawings of Asiatic scenery are deservedly admired. With a modesty that always characterizes worth and genius, he retired from the prosecution of his art, conceiving that his place would be filled by men of greater merit. He had, therefore, with the profit of his labours in the East, taken a share in a provincial bank, which, with his attention, his integrity, and the many friends his virtues and talents had procured him, would probably have proved a prosperous undertaking. His personal manners were easy, affable and communicative; and all he said was marked by good sense, truth and simplicity. He has left to regret his loss a numerous train of friends and a widow, who is one of the most amicable and accomplished women in the kingdom, though the delicacy of her mind has chiefly confined the reputation of her merit and abilities within the sphere of domestic intercourse and enjoyment.\"\n\nHodges left his wife and children in great want. However, many of his friends soon rallied around to try and ease their burden, and for this, and other information relating to events soon after his death, we have the \"Farrington Diaries\", written daily as events unfolded. Joseph Farrington R.A. (1747 -1821) studied as a pupil under Richard Wilson R.A. at the same time as Hodges and later both became fellow Royal Academicians. They appear to have remained life long friends.\n\nAn entry relating to the disposal of some of Hodges' personal possessions was written some years later on the 3rd October, 1809, when Farrington was journeying through the West Country and visited Brixham:\n\n\"_____ told us that after his death there was a sale at his house and that many articles, particularly valuable books, were sold for almost nothing. But that she understood that the most valuable part of his drafts (drawings) as she called them were reserved by Mr. Carr (Sir John), and that though some were sold they were those of the least value.\"\n\nSir John Carr, 1772 - 1832, was a native of Totnes (approximately eight miles from Brixham ) who for health reasons frequently travelled abroad and wrote books on his travels. \n\nAs Hodges was employed by the Admiralty on Cook's second voyage and all paintings and drawings of the voyage belonged to them. However, he also repeated some of them.\n\n\n"}
