{"id": "479998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479998", "title": "26th of July Movement", "text": "26th of July Movement\n\nThe 26th of July Movement (; M-26-7) was a vanguard revolutionary organization then a party led by Fidel Castro that in 1959 overthrew the Fulgencio Batista dictatorship in Cuba. The Movement fought the Batista regime on both rural and urban fronts. The movement’s main objectives were distribution of land to peasants, nationalization of public services, industrialization, honest elections, and large scale education reform.\n\nThe 26th of July Movement's name originated from the failed attack on the Moncada Barracks, an army facility in the city of Santiago de Cuba, on 26 July 1953. This attack was led by a young Fidel Castro, who was a legislative candidate in a free election that had been cancelled by Batista. The attack had been intended as a rallying cry for the revolution. Castro was captured and sentenced to 15 years in prison but, along with his group, was granted an amnesty after two years following a political campaign on their behalf. Castro travelled to Mexico to reorganize the movement in 1955 with several other exiled revolutionaries (including Raúl Castro, Camilo Cienfuegos, and Juan Almeida Bosque). Their task was to form a disciplined guerrilla force to overthrow Batista.\n\nOn 2 December 1956, 82 men landed in Cuba, having sailed in the boat \"Granma\" from Tuxpan, Veracruz, ready to organize and lead a revolution. The early signs were not good for the movement. They landed in daylight, were attacked by the Cuban Air Force, and suffered numerous casualties. The landing party was split into two and wandered lost for two days, most of their supplies abandoned where they landed. They were also betrayed by their peasant guide in an ambush, which killed more of those who had landed. Batista mistakenly announced Fidel Castro's death at this point. Of the 82 who sailed aboard the \"Granma,\" only 12 eventually regrouped in the Sierra Maestra mountain range. While the revolutionaries were setting up camp in the mountains, \"Civic Resistance\" groups were formulating in the cities, putting pressure on the Batista regime. Many middle-class and professional persons flocked toward Castro and his movement. While in the Sierra Maestra mountains the guerrilla forces attracted hundreds of Cuban volunteers and won several battles against the Cuban Army. Ernesto 'Che' Guevara was shot in the neck and chest during the fighting, but was not severely injured. (Guevara, who had studied medicine, continued to give first aid to other wounded guerrillas.) This was the opening phase of the war of the Cuban Revolution, which continued for the next two years. It ended in January 1959, after Batista fled Cuba for Dominican Republic, on New Year's Eve when the Movement's forces marched into Havana.\n\nAfter the takeover, anti-Batistas, liberals, urban workers, peasants, and idealists became the dominant followers of the M-26-7 movement, which gained control over Cuba. The Movement was joined with other bodies to form the United Party of the Cuban Socialist Revolution, which in turn became the Communist Party of Cuba in 1965. Cuba modeled itself after the soviet-bloc countries of eastern Europe, becoming the first socialistic government in the Americas. Once it was learned that Cuba would adopt a strict Marxist–Leninist political and economic system, opposition was raised not only by dissident party members, but by the United States as well. Fidel Castro's government seized private land, nationalized hundreds of private companies—including several local subsidiaries of U.S. corporations—and taxed American products so heavily that U.S. exports were cut half in just two years. The Eisenhower Administration then imposed trade restrictions on everything except food and medical supplies. As a result, Cuba turned to the Soviet Union for trade instead. The US responded by cutting all diplomatic ties to Cuba, and have had a rocky relationship ever since. In April 1961, a CIA-trained force of Cuban exiles and dissidents launched the unsuccessful Bay of Pigs Invasion against Cuba.\n\nThe flag of the 26th of July Movement is on the shoulder of the Cuban military uniform, and continues to be used as a symbol of the Cuban revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33606908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33606908", "title": "AGS van Suid-Afrika v Capes", "text": "AGS van Suid-Afrika v Capes\n\nApostoliese Geloofsending van Suid-Afrika (Maitland Gemeente) v Capes is an important case in South African property law, especially in respect of the application of estoppel, in its limitation of the \"rei vindicatio\", to immovable property. It was heard in the Cape Provincial Division by Friedman R from 1 November 1977, to 10 February 1978, with judgment handed down on 12 May.\n\nThe case involved a boundary dispute. Apostoliese Geloofsending van Suid-Afrika (AGS), the owner of two lots, had built a wall between them, but not exactly on the boundary. It later sold one lot to \"J,\" who in turn transferred it to Capes, the defendant. AGS then sought an order to demolish the wall, so as to make use of all the property, but Capes opposed the action, claiming estoppel. The court allowed the plea of estoppel to succeed, holding that it may be applied to claims involving immovable property.\n"}
{"id": "26812835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26812835", "title": "Anarchist Encyclopedia", "text": "Anarchist Encyclopedia\n\nThe Anarchist Encyclopedia was an encyclopedia initiated by the French anarchist activist Sebastien Faure, between 1925 and 1934, published in four volumes.\n\nThe original project was to be in five parts:\n\n\nOnly the first part in four volumes of 2,893 pages was made. It included many anarchist tendencies. There were several hundred collaborators including, in addition to Sebastien Faure himself, Luigi Bertoni, Pierre Besnard, Emile Armand, Han Ryner, Augustin Souchy, Max Nettlau, Voline, Aristide Lapeyre, Gérard de Lacaze-Duthiers, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "55440946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55440946", "title": "Azerbaijan State Theatre Museum", "text": "Azerbaijan State Theatre Museum\n\nAzerbaijan State Theatre Museum () named after Jafar Jabbarli reflects the professional theatre history of Azerbaijan.\nIn 1934, the issue of establishing such a museum was raised at the Republican conference by theater workers. The museum was organized in the same year in the building of the Azerbaijan State Drama Theater. In fact, this exhibition was the foundation of a future museum. According to eyewitnesses, Jalil Mammadguluzadeh and Abdurrahim bey Hagverdiyev, the great writers who cut the opening ribbon of the exhibition, said: \"Long live the Azerbaijani theater!\"\n\nThe exhibition is soon officially formalized as a Theater Department of the Azerbaijan State Museum. Finally, on the basis of the relevant department of the Azerbaijan State Museum in 1934, Azerbaijan State Theater Museum was established and Aghakarim Sharifov was appointed the director of the museum.\n\nOn 25 November 1934, the solemn opening ceremony of the museum was held. Famous art figures such as Bulbul, Shovkat Mammadova, Huseyngulu Sarabski, Alexander Tuganov, Ulvi Rajab, Ismayil Hidayatzade and others attend the event.\n\nIn 1935, the museum was named after Jafar Jabbarli, the great Azerbaijani playwright.\n\nIn 1963, the Azerbaijan State Theatre Museum was annulled and became the Theater and Drama Department of the Azerbaijan Literature Museum named after Nizami.\n\nIn 1968, the Government of the Republic made a decision on the organization of the Azerbaijan State Theater Museum named after J. Jabbarli on the basis of this department. The rooms on the 4th floor of the building of the Azerbaijan Literature Museum named after Nizami are given to the newly created museum. In these rooms, it was possible to place only the museum stock and employees. The most remarkable transformation in the history of the Azerbaijan State Theater Museum took place in 1991. After Baku branch of the central V.I.lenin Museum was given to Ministry of Culture of Azerbaijan, the \"Museum Center\" was created here, along with the State Museum of Carpet and Applied Art and the Museum of Independence of Azerbaijan, the State Theater Museum placed in this building. The Museum Center is located on the seaside Boulevard.\n"}
{"id": "19601961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19601961", "title": "Bengali film directory", "text": "Bengali film directory\n\nBengali Film Directory is an archive of Bengali films (in English). Published in March 1999 by Nandan, West Bengal Film Centre (Calcutta), this directory was edited by Ansu Sur and was compiled by Abhijit Goswami. It includes all Bengali feature films released from 1917 to 1998, described briefly, but including detailed cast and crew, director name, release date and release theater name.\n\n"}
{"id": "28043886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28043886", "title": "Biblioteca de al-Andalus", "text": "Biblioteca de al-Andalus\n\nBiblioteca de al-Andalus is a standard encyclopaedia of the academic discipline of Al-Andalus studies. It embraces articles on various aspects of cultural life in Muslim Spain, through the biographies of around 2400 Andalusian authors and a detailed study of over 10000 texts, focused on different fields of knowledge (literature, Islamic Law, the Quran, linguistics, history, philosophy, medicine, astronomy, etc.). It is the first reference work published by the Fundación Ibn Tufayl de Estudios Árabes within the Al-Andalus Culture Encyclopaedia project. \n\n"}
{"id": "3544055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3544055", "title": "Billy Robinson", "text": "Billy Robinson\n\nBilly Robinson (September 18, 1938 – March 3, 2014) was a British professional wrestler, author and catch wrestling instructor. Robinson was well known in Japan where he trained mixed martial arts fighters in catch wrestling. Robinson was one of the few wrestlers who was successful in several continents (Europe, North America, Asia and Oceania), winning titles in promotions nearly everywhere he wrestled.\n\nRobinson began his amateur wrestling career in Britain. He was the British National Wrestling Champion in 1957, and in 1958 he was the European Open Wrestling Champion in the light heavyweight class, beating an Olympic bronze medal winner in the finals. Billy Robinson also attended the fabled \"Snake Pit\" started by legendary trainer Billy Riley. The Snake Pit was one of the most respected catch wrestling training schools in all of the world. Legends such as Karl Gotch had trained in catch wrestling in the Snake Pit with Riley. Robinson had to survive bare minimum amenities (luxuries such as a toilet were not provided at the Snake Pit), a very rough training environment (Riley was very impatient with those who showed even the slightest bit of weakness on the mat) and rigorous conditioning. Robinson stayed at the Snake Pit for eight years.\n\nAs a professional wrestler, Robinson was an undefeated double-crown British and European Heavyweight Champion for Joint Promotions. He defeated older fellow Snake Pit wrestler Billy Joyce for the European title on 12 June 1965 and then beat Joyce again for the British title on 18 January 1967, vacating both titles in 1970 when he went off to America. He also had a high-profile feud with legendary masked wrestler Kendo Nagasaki. In 1978, Robinson made a brief homecoming tour of the UK including a televised win over Lee Bronson.\n\nRobinson traveled to North America in 1970 and began wrestling for Verne Gagne's American Wrestling Association. He was one of the successful wrestlers of the American promotion known for hiring the \"Real Deals\" in wrestling. Billy Robinson was also the AWA British Empire Heavyweight Champion; he defended the title in both the United States and Canada, winning on 3 separate occasions. 12 October 1974 Robinson's image as a legitimate wrestler landed him a role in the film \"The Wrestler\" alongside Verne Gagne and Ed Asner. He wrestled in Montreal in 1982 and 1983 becoming the International Champion beating Dino Bravo and was also International Tag Team champions with Pierre Mad Dog Lefebvre. He wrestled to a 60-minutes time-limit draw against then WWWF Champion Bob Backlund in 1982 as well in Montreal.\n\nRobinson travelled to Japan where he became immensely popular as a legitimate wrestler versed in submission holds. He participated in a professional wrestling match against legendary Antonio Inoki in 1975. The match was billed as \"The Match Between the World's Top Two Technicians\" by the Japanese press. Robinson continued an active professional wrestling career, travelling throughout the world to participate in various events. Japanese professional wrestlers learned the art of \"hooking\" and \"shooting\" from another of catch wrestling's greatest icons, Karl Gotch. The new movement led to the formation of the Universal Wrestling Federation. The UWF had wrestlers like Yoshiaki Fujiwara who had also been to the Snake Pit in Wigan. Robinson became a part of the shoot style movement when he wrestled in an exhibition match for the UWFi against fellow AWA legend Nick Bockwinkel on May 8, 1992.\n\nRobinson, having previously trained wrestlers in England including Marty Jones and Johnny Saint, began training wrestlers in catch wrestling at the UWF Snake Pit in Japan, including James Maritato, Kazushi Sakuraba and El Signo. Robinson was inducted into the International Wrestling Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\nRobinson died on March 3, 2014, at the age of 75.\n\nPhysical Chess: My Life in Catch-as-Catch-Can Wrestling ECW Press\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5853521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5853521", "title": "Bulmer (directories)", "text": "Bulmer (directories)\n\nBulmer was a Victorian historian, surveyor, cartographer and compiler of directories. His directories provided a history and geography of a particular area. The directories listed and described all parishes; listed trades and professions and provided a helpful street index with the names of residents, together with other local information. Data CDs of Bulmer Directories are available from publishers in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "18424463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424463", "title": "Casón del Buen Retiro", "text": "Casón del Buen Retiro\n\nThe Casón del Buen Retiro is an annex of the Museo del Prado complex in Madrid. Following major restoration work, which was completed in October 2007, it now houses the Museum's study centre (the Escuela del Prado) and library.\n\nPicasso's \"Guernica\" canvas, and the sketches associated with its creation, were on display at the Casón from 1981, when it was delivered to Spain from New York's Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), to 1992, when it was moved to its current permanent location in a purpose-built gallery at the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía.\n\nThe Casón del Buen Retiro was originally built as the ballroom, the \"Salón de Baile\", of the Buen Retiro Palace, of which now only two buildings, the Casón and the Salón de Reinos still remain. The Casón is located in front of the Puerta de Felipe IV entrance on the west side of Retiro Park.\n\nThe artistic importance of Luca Giordano's \"The Allegory of the Golden Fleece\", a ca.1697 fresco on the ceiling of the Casón commissioned by King Charles II of Spain, is one of the possible reasons given for the building having survived when most of the other Bueno Retiro palace complex buildings were demolished in the 19th century. The fresco is considered one of the masterpieces of the Prado's collection.\n\nFrom 1877 to 1960 the Casón was used as the \"Museo de Reproducciones Artísticas\", set up by the then President of the Government, Antonio Canovas del Castillo, until it was moved to the \"Museo de América\". The building was then used as a temporary exhibition space until 1971. From 1971 to 1981 it was used by the Museo del Prado for the 19th-century collections paintings and sculptures which had formerly been in the \"Museo de Arte Moderno\". From 1981 to 1992 the Casón housed Picasso’s \"Guernica\" painting, now in the \"Museo Reina Sofía\".\n\nThe library of the Museo del Prado, on the ground floor of the Casón building, consists of the Reading Room for the use of researchers, the museum's technical staff and students of the Escuela del Prado, and the book stores located in the basements. It comprises some 70,000 books, including those acquired from two private collections, those of José María Cervelló and of the Daza-Madrazo family, the latter mostly books belonging to the painter José de Madrazo, director of the Museo del Prado from 1838 to 1851.\n\nThe Escuela del Prado is a school of the Museo del Prado housed in the Casón building.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2007, the Casón building was closed for remodelling and enlargement. Projects included the excavation of two new floors, resulting in almost double the preexisting space.\n"}
{"id": "36458974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36458974", "title": "Central Archives of Historical Records", "text": "Central Archives of Historical Records\n\nCentral Archives of Historical Records in Warsaw (, AGAD) is one of Poland's four national archives. The archive was founded in 1808 and holds records ranging from 12th century until World War I. A large portion of the archive was destroyed during World War II in 1939 and in 1944. The current headquarters is located in Raczyński Palace located at Długa 7 Street in Warsaw. \n\nThe archive went through several name changes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "421480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421480", "title": "Codex Runicus", "text": "Codex Runicus\n\nThe Codex Runicus is a codex of 202 pages written in medieval runes around the year 1300 which includes the oldest preserved Nordic provincial law, Scanian Law (\"Skånske lov\") pertaining to the Danish land Scania (Skåneland). Codex Runicus is one of the few runic texts found on parchment. The manuscript's initials are painted various colors and the rubrics are red. Each rune corresponds to a letter of the Latin alphabet.\n\nThe Codex Runicus is considered by most scholars a nostalgic or revivalist use of runes and not a natural step from the Nordic runic script culture of the Viking Age to the medieval Latin manuscript culture. \n\nA similar use of runes in a Scandinavian manuscript from this era is known only from the small fragment \"SKB A 120\", a religious text about Mary's lament at the cross. The two manuscripts are similar in how the runes are formed and also in their language use, and it has therefore been suggested that it they were both written by the same Scanian scribe. Some scholars argue that they were written at the scriptorium at the Cistercian monastery at Herrevad in Scania, although the idea is contested.\n\nSome historians have considered it feasible that the Codex is a part and remainder of a formerly substantial collection of Scandinavian runic manuscripts, obliterated during the destruction of monasteries and libraries that followed the Protestant Reformation. Support for this idea has been found in reports written by Olaus Magnus, a Catholic ecclesiastic active during the 16th century in Uppsala, Sweden, who fled the country due to the Reformation. According to Olaus Magnus, there were many books written with runes in important Swedish religious centres, such as Skara and Uppsala, before the Reformation. Other historians have questioned the accuracy of his report.\n\nThe manuscript has three major parts: the Scanian Law (fol. 1-82), the Scanian Ecclesiastical Law (fol. 84–91), a chronicle of the early Danish monarchs (fol. 92-97) and a description of the Danish-Swedish border (fol. 97-100). The Scanian Ecclesiastical Law (\"Skånske Kirkelov\") is a settlement detailing the administration of justice agreed upon by the Scanians and the archbishop of Lund in the late 12th century. The two law texts are written in the same hand, but the non-legal material of the codex, beginning on leaf 92, is believed to have been added in another hand, at a later date. The history section consists of a fragment of a list of Danish kings and a chronicle beginning with the legendary Danish king Hadding's son Frode and ending with Eric VI of Denmark. Following the historical texts is a description of the oldest border between Sweden and Denmark (referred to as \"the Daneholm settlement\"). On the last leaf of Codex Runicus is a verse with musical notations - the first musical notations written in Scandinavia. It is the earliest written evidence of secular music in Denmark, a non-rhythmic notation on a four-line staff.\n\nLike other Scandinavian manifestations of Medieval runes, the runic alphabet of the Codex Runicus contains a sign for each phoneme of the language. A dotted variant had been introduced in order to separate voiceless k from the corresponding voiced consonant g. New runes introduced for the vowel sounds also appear in the codex. \n\nThe text on leaf 27r, from the first rubric (line 3), reads:\n\nThe verse with the musical notations is the first two lines of the folk song \"Drømde mig en drøm i nat\" (I dreamt a dream last night), about a girl who dreams of becoming a rich woman. The melody is one that is well known to all Danes, having been used as an interval signal on Danish radio since 1931. \n\nThe section with the verse and musical notations are on the last leaf and reads:\n\nThe Codex Runicus has the shelfmark \"AM 28 8vo\" and is part of the Arnamagnæan Collection in the Arnamagnæan Institute at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "10689151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10689151", "title": "Comparison of remote desktop software", "text": "Comparison of remote desktop software\n\nThis page is a comparison of remote desktop software available for various platforms.\n\nIn the table above, the following terminology is intended to be used to describe some important features:\n\n"}
{"id": "32412162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32412162", "title": "Cronaca fiorentina di Marchionne di Coppo Stefani", "text": "Cronaca fiorentina di Marchionne di Coppo Stefani\n\nThe Cronaca fiorentina di Marchionne di Coppo Stefani () written by Baldassarre Bonaiuti is considered today as one of the best works written on the Black Death in Florence in the year 1348. It is the only known literary work by Bonaiuti. It was written in vulgar Latin. There is no information as to when he may have started his work, but he devoted much time on it in his retirement from about 1378 until his death, a period of seven years.\n\nThe \"Cronaca fiorentina\" is not only a detailed history of the Black Death in Florence, but also a history of Florentine political groups and the political ambitions of individuals. Bonaiuti stresses the economic disruption in Florence during the fourteenth century which was the result of the bubonic plague. The Chronicle is a didactic work as well as a detailed historical record of Florence up to 1386.\n\nThe first edition of the chronicle was by Ildefonso di San Luigi (1724–1792), who had available to him four codices of the work. Niccolò Rodolico, in preparing a new edition, was able to refer to a further seven codices, the earliest of which dated from about twenty-five years after Bonaiuti's death. Rodolico's edition was published in 1903.\n\nOn the first page of his Chronicle Bonaiuti declares, of his chosen language and his research: \n\nThe Chronicle gives some of the history of the Bonaiuti family, placing the writer's ancestors at the beginning of the thirteenth century among the noble Guelphs. His Chronicle, however, is mainly about the history of Florence from ancient times (its legendary foundation by Caesar in 70 BCE) up to 1385. Bonaiuti devotes a major part of the work to the destruction caused to Florence and Fiesole by the bubonic plague of the Black Death in the fourteenth century. For the first part of Bonaiuti's work up to 1348 he relied upon Giovanni Villani's \"Nuova Cronica\", but after that he diverges from the work of Villani. His own work focusses principally on Florence, while that of Villani extended over other parts of Europe, with no particular devotion to any geographical area.\n\nBonaiuti devotes in his Chronicle as much effort to the current \"news\" of the time, especially concerning the Black Death, as to the ancient history of earlier centuries. His account of Florentine events to 1367 contains little detail. This increases for the years 1368 to 1372, but for 1373-74 detail is again scarce. From 1375 until Bonaiuti's death there is again much detail of the current news events of Florence.\n\nA passage in Bonaiuti's \"Cronaca fiorentina\" talks of the mortality rate and the small virtues of people living under such extreme conditions of the plague disease suffered by Florence in 1348. The plague not only killed people, but it killed also their domestic animals, including dogs and cats, and their livestock, such as oxen, donkeys, sheep and chickens. The disease arrived in Florence in March 1348 and did not stop killing until September of that year.\n\nThe \"Cronaca fiorentina\" explains that physicians of the day had no idea how to fight this deadly plague, as the medicine of the day knew of no defense against it. It caused such terror that even family members abandoned each other. If someone fell sick, his relations would tell him to go to bed, while they could fetch the doctor. But on leaving home they would fail to return. Once a patient was in bed he usually received no further care, not even food or water.\n\nThe work also describes the symptoms of the disease, which were a bubo in the groin area or the armpit. This was usually followed by a fever, with the sufferer spitting up saliva or blood. Those spitting up blood never survived, and most with these symptoms would die within a few days. There was such fear of getting the plague just by being near to sick people that their relations abandoned them. Many people died simply by being left alone with no help whatsoever: no medical assistance, nursing, or even food, if they had indicated they were ill. There was nothing to do but to go to bed and die. No one would enter a house that had a plague sufferer in it. People would not even deal with a healthy person if they suspected they came from a house of sickness. No one would enter an abandoned house if those in it had died of the plague. Everything in the house seemed poisoned. Nobody dared touch anything for fear they would contact the plague.\n\nA passage from Bonaiuti's chronicle tells how most churches were overwhelmed with burials, so dug mass deep graves. Those responsible for disposing of the bodies carried them to the mass grave, dropped them in, and added earth. More bodies arrived the next day, upon which more earth was placed, and soon the mass graves were filled with layers of bodies. People willing to carry bodies to the graves were highly paid and were called \"beccamorti\", or vultures. Some made a fortune at the work, if they did not die of the plague themselves.\n\nBonaiuti recounts how in the months of the Black Death, goods became very expensive. Food prices increased astronomically. Services of all kinds also became very expensive. Wax was very scarce, so that few could afford a pound weight of it. The government of the city finally had to order a limit on the price of wax, so that people could afford candles for light and for the few funerals that took place, but only two candles could be carried in any funeral. The cost of funeral clothing climbed ten-fold. Finally, the custom of dressing in expensive clothing for a funeral was discontinued.\n\nThe \"Cronaca fiorentina\" explains that the spice-dealers and \"beccamorti\" sold burial items, such as perfumed spiced goods, benches, caskets, burial palls, biers, and cushions, at outrageously high prices, so that the government finally had to step in and control such prices. It also forbade the custom of ringing bells during a funeral, to limit the knowledge of how many funerals there actually were. Crying out a funeral announcement was also forbidden. Knowing how many funerals there were discouraged the sick as well as the healthy. Priests and friars served the rich, since they were paid large amounts of money for their services, and could become rich themselves. The local authorities then made laws prescribing how many clerics a church could have, usually setting the limit at six. Many rich people died, and many religious processions with relics went through the streets of Florence. The dead would be carried away by four \"beccamorti\" and a tonsured clerk carrying a Christian cross, each wanting to be highly paid.\nBonaiuti makes it clear that the plague killed so many people that certain new customs were put into place. Fruits with a nut center, unhusked almonds, figs, and \"unhealthy\" fruits were forbidden to enter Florence, for fear of bringing in the pestilence. Men would gather and dine together. Each evening a man would provide the cooked meal for ten other men, rotating from night to night as the host. Many times a host would provide dinner for ten, but two or three were missing. Often by the next evening only one of the ten was still present, the other nine having died or having fled the city for villages outside it, to get fresh air, but they took the plague with them and contaminated otherwise healthy villages. Thus the pestilence spread, killing people at an ever faster rate.\n\nThe \"Cronaca fiorentina\" also explains that the Florentine guilds were not operating during the plague epidemic of the fourteenth century. The craft shops were closed, as were the taverns, and only the apothecaries and the churches remained open for business during the disaster. The overcharging for certain goods and services shows the morality of those providing them, and the rate at which the plague killed people made the apothecaries and doctors rich. Others enriched by the high death rate were poultry-farmers, gravediggers, grocers selling vegetables, and those who made poultices to draw away the infirmity of the disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "4987084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4987084", "title": "Delaware Art Museum", "text": "Delaware Art Museum\n\nThe Delaware Art Museum is an art museum located on the Kentmere Parkway in Wilmington, Delaware, which holds a collection of more than 12,000 objects. The museum was founded in 1912 as the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts in honor of the artist Howard Pyle. The collection focuses on American art and illustration from the 19th to the 21st century, and on the English Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood movement of the mid-19th century.\n\nThe museum building was expanded and renovated in 2005 and includes a Sculpture Park, the Helen Farr Sloan Library and Archives, studio art classes, a children's learning area, as well as a cafe and museum store.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1912 after Howard Pyle's death as the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts (WSFA), with over 100 paintings, drawings, and prints purchased from Pyle's widow Anne. Pyle was the best-known American illustrator of his day; he died unexpectedly in 1911 while on a trip to Italy. \n\nPyle left behind many students and patrons in his home town of Wilmington who wished to honor his memory through the museum, including Frank Schoonover, Stanley Arthurs, and Louisa du Pont Copeland. The museum's charter stated its purpose \"to promote the knowledge and enjoyment of and cultivation in the fine arts in the State of Delaware.\"\n\nFrom 1912 to 1922, the WSFA did not have a permanent home. It held annual exhibitions at the Hotel duPont of work by Pyle, as well as juried exhibitions of his pupils and other Delaware artists. The Pyle Collection continued to grow due to the largess of Willard S. Morse, who gave over 100 Pyle pen and ink drawings to the WSFA between 1915 and 1919. In 1922, the WSFA rented three rooms in the New Library Building on the corner of 10th and Market Streets in downtown Wilmington.\n\nIn 1931, the estate of Samuel Bancroft contacted the WSFA with an offer to donate a collection of Pre-Raphaelite works, along with 11 acres of land to house a museum for the collection. Bancroft acquired the collection beginning in the 1890s and it is the \"largest and most important collection of British Pre-Raphaelite art and manuscript materials in the United States.\" Despite the harships of the Great Depression, the WSFA raised $350,000 for the new building which opened in 1938. At the same time, the name was changed to Delaware Art Center.\n\nThe WSFA moved into the Delaware Art Center in June 1938, with the Wilmington Academy of Fine Arts running educational programs on the ground floor. The onset of World War II resulted in strict gas rationing, which drastically reduced the attendance to the museum. The Wilmington Academy of Fine Arts disbanded in 1943 and turned its assets over to the Delaware Art Center, forming the basis of its education department, which grew to more than 500 students by 1954.\n\nThe rapid growth of educational programs after World War II required the Delaware Art Center to expand by 1956. Studios and training facilities were included in the expansion, thanks to a $300,000 donation by H. Fletcher Brown. A further renovation was completed in 1970, adding air conditioning and humidity control to the building. In 1972, the Delaware Art Center was awarded accreditation by the American Alliance of Museums. Shortly thereafter, the Delaware Art Center was renamed the Delaware Art Museum to \"reflect the growing strength of its collections, programs, and constituency.\" \n\nA further expansion was completed in 1987 which effectively doubled the size of the museum. However, the rapid growth of attendance, programming, and outreach required a further expansion in 2005.\n\nThe Delaware Art Museum's collections are predominantly drawn from late 19th- and early 20th-century American illustration, as well as works from the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. The basis of the museum's collections are the works of Howard Pyle and his pupils N.C. Wyeth, Frank Schoonover, and Stanley Arthurs. Helen Farr Sloan was the wife of artist John French Sloan, and she began donations in 1961 that eventually totalled 5,000 objects.\n\nSince the 1970s, the museum has added works by modern artists such as Jacob Lawrence, Louise Nevelson, Robert Motherwell, George Segal, and Jim Dine. The permanent collections at the museum include the following:\n\n\n\n\n\nTwo separate libraries opened in the new Delaware Art Center building in 1938: one centered on the collection of Howard Pyle, and the other centering on Samuel Bancroft, Jr. and his collections of Victorian books and books on Pre-Raphaelite painting. In 1978 Helen Farr Sloan donated the collections of her husband, the John Sloan Manuscript and Library Collection. A consolidated library opened in 1985 in the new Pamela and Lammot du Pont Copeland wing and was named in honor of Mrs. Sloan. It contains over 30,000 volumes and 1,000 boxes of personal papers, photographs and other material related to John Sloan, Samuel Bancroft, Jr. and Howard Pyle and his students. It recently acquired a copy of \"The Flower Book\" by Edward Burne-Jones. In 2009, the museum received the M.G. Sawyer Collection of Decorative Bindings, which contains over 2,000 volumes.\n\nThe nine acre sculpture garden behind the museum includes nine large sculptures and an old reservoir converted into a labyrinth.\nHighlights include the 13-foot-tall bronze \"Crying Giant\" by Tom Otterness and \"Three Rectangles Horizontal Jointed Gyratory III\" by George Rickey, which moves in the wind.\nJoe Moss is represented by a sound sculpture which modifies and distorts nearby sounds.\nThe museum presents about ten special exhibitions each year with topics ranging from nationally known modern artists to historical Delaware folk art. Since 2009 the exhibitions have included the works of Leonard Baskin, Delaware photographer \nFred Comegys, Harold Eugene Edgerton, James Gurney, May Morris, Maxfield Parrish, Ellen Bernard Thompson Pyle, Frank Schoonover, ultra-realist sculptor Marc Sijan, and John Sloan, as well as works from the collection of the Royal Holloway, University of London, and African American Art from the American Folk Art Museum.\n\nExhibitions have also included the works of Mary Page Evans, Howard Pyle, Katharine Pyle, and Katharine Richardson Wireman, as well as \"The Flower Book\" by Edward Burne-Jones.\n\nThe museum offers about 100 programs each year, ranging from 8-week classes to 1-day workshops, as well as open studios. Special classes are offered to adults, teenagers, and children in areas including drawing, painting, photography, jewelry making, and ceramics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449894", "title": "Directory assistance", "text": "Directory assistance\n\nIn telecommunications, directory assistance or directory enquiries is a phone service used to find out a specific telephone number and/or address of a residence, business, or government entity.\n\nDirectory assistance systems incorporate a wide range of automation to reduce the cost of human operators. Almost all systems use custom database software to locate listings quickly.\n\nMost directory assistance systems use automated readback systems to give out the phone number. This frees the directory assistance operator to move on to another caller as soon as the correct listing is located.\n\nSome systems have \"store and forward\" technology which records \"city and state\" the caller is requesting and then plays the city and state speech to the operator before they come online and then say \"Residential or business listing?\" or simply \"What listing please?\"\n\nInteractive voice response systems have been added to many directory assistance systems. These complex systems use speech recognition and recorded speech or speech synthesis to handle the entire call without live operator intervention.\n\nMost systems recognize location and listing. If recognition confidence is high, the best result is played to the caller. If confidence is low, the caller's request is played back to a live operator, who locates the correct listing.\n\nIn the North American Numbering Plan (covering Canada and the United States), directory assistance may be contacted by dialing 4-1-1 (one of the N11 codes). To get a listing in a remote or non-local area code, directory assistance is available at 1-\"area code\"-555-1212. In some cases, a 411 call from a landline will yield local, national, and sometimes international listings.\n\nMost telephone companies permit up to two listings per 411 call. All wireless carriers offer nationwide listings with 411, and some offer additional Enhanced Directory Assistance services. However, wireless numbers for residential customers are not available via 411. \n\nHistorically, the tariffs for wireline telephone service allowed subscribers to place a certain number of directory assistance calls for free each month. More recently, telephone companies are charging subscribers for every directory assistance call.\n\nU.S. wireline telephone companies classify DA into four rate classes:\n\n\nIn the U.S., directory assistance for companies with toll-free \"800 numbers\" (with area codes 800, 844, 855, 866, 877, and 888) is available from toll-free directory assistance.\n\nToll-free directory assistance is provided by telecommunication providers, namely AT&T and Verizon, as mandated by the Federal Communications Commission. Companies must request to have their toll-free number listed and pay the providers each time their phone number is released to a Toll-free directory assistance caller. In 1999, AT&T applied for permission to discontinue this service but it remains active.\n\nThe service of 4-1-1 queries is often outsourced to a call centre that specializes in that function. Historically, when a single carrier provided most of the telephony services for a region, the data used to satisfy the search could come exclusively from that carrier's subscriber rolls. Today, when the market is fragmented amongst many carriers, the data must be aggregated by a data aggregator specializing in directory listings. The data aggregator distributes the data to the 4-1-1 services either on a \"live\" basis, actually servicing each query, or by periodically transferring large swaths of listings to the call center's systems for local searching.\n\nThe data aggregator collects the data from the rolls of many telecommunication carriers. Some carriers such as Vonage do not send their customer rolls to the aggregator.\n\nPrivate companies have entered the directory assistance market by offering free directory assistance. Customers often must listen to an advertisement prior to receiving directory services.\n\nIn Australia, there are two standard directory assistance numbers that can be accessed from any phone provider, these are 1223 for national directory assistance and 1225 for international directory assistance. Other directory service numbers are carrier specific and can only be accessed by customers of that particular provider, for example Sensis on 1234 is a premium operator-assist directory service that only certain Telstra customers are able to access. Other operator-assist directory services do exist, for example CallConnect on 12456 however these numbers are not guaranteed to be accessible from all phone providers within Australia.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, directory assistance is called directory enquiries. \n\nDirectory enquires is provided by a variety of different companies, with a variety of call charges, each company reached by dialling a six-digit number beginning with 118. These companies supply information from the Operator Services Information System (OSIS), which is run by Directory Solutions, a division of BT Wholesale. OSIS accepts updates from telecoms providers seven days a week, and supplies that information to the enquiry companies six days a week. There are currently over 200 providers. Four of these, 118 118 (The Number), 118 212 (Maureen), 118 247 (Yellow Pages) and 118 500 (British Telecom) are among the most expensive and yet have over 90% of the market, mostly due to heavy advertising.\n\nDirectory enquiries used to be reached by dialling 192 (domestic numbers) or 153 (foreign), with the service supplied by the telephone company providing the fixed or mobile service to the calling telephone. Historically the service was free at the point of use. During the 1990s charges were brought in to use this service from home or business lines, although for some years after directory enquiries were free from payphones. These numbers were switched off on 24 August 2003 following the introduction of competition to directory enquiries.\n\nThe pricing structure for UK directory enquiries was reformed by Ofcom on 1 July 2015. Call charges consist of an access charge and a service charge. The access charge is set and retained by the caller's landline or mobile provider. The service charge is set by the directory enquiries service but it is collected by the caller's phone provider and then passed on to the directory enquiries service.\n\nThe access charge is set at a per minute rate and is typically 2p to 13p per minute from landlines or 5p to 55p per minute from mobiles. The access charge is always the same rate as applies for calls to 084, 087 and 09 numbers and must be shown prominently in tariff lists.\n\nThe service charge may be charged per call, per minute, or a combination of the two. The per-call part may be anywhere from 5p to £16 and applies as soon as the call is answered. The per-minute part may be anywhere from 1p to £8 and may apply from the start of the call or may apply after the first 60 seconds has elapsed. There are 100 available service charge price points, known as SC001 to SC100. The service charge must be declared alongside the number wherever it is advertised or promoted.\n\nThe applicable service charge codes are also shown in BT's pricing table section 2, part 15. Having found the \"SC\" code for a particular number, it is then necessary to refer to part 19 to find the cost.\n\nA number offering a directory enquiries service allowing people to request to be put through to a mobile phone number was established in June 2009. 118 800 proved to be controversial, however, when it was revealed that it was making available 15 million mobile numbers that it had bought from market researchers. Its website was suspended within weeks of its launch so that the company could re-engineer the site to enable the large number of ex-directory requests to be handled more efficiently. the 118800.co.uk site remains non-functional.\n\nIn 2014, the 118500 service run by BT was fined £225,000 by PhonepayPlus (now renamed as the Phone-paid Services Authority) for over-charging customers and failing to clearly display call costs. BT were also ordered to refund affected customers.\n\nLater in 2014, a similar failure to clearly state call costs resulted in a fine for the 118118 service.\n\nIn 2017, soaring call costs for directory enquiries services including 118118 and 118500 prompted an Ofcom review of 118 services.\n\nSome directory enquiries services stand accused of inappropriate methods of promoting their services, effectively scamming people into calling. Various unallocated geographic and non-geographic numbers play an announcement directing callers to call a particular directory enquiries number for help. People may hear this message when they mis-dial a wanted number or may appear to have missed a call from the unallocated number and hear this message if they call back.\n\nSome services donate part of their income to charities, such as animal welfare and football clubs.\n\nIn mainland China, (area code) 114 is dialed for directory assistance in that area code.\n\nIn Ethiopia, 8123 is dialed for directory assistance.\n\nIn Israel, 144 or 1344 is dialed for directory assistance.\n\nIn the Philippines, 187 is dialed for PLDT and Digitel subscribers.\n\nIn Taiwan, directory assistance is available by dialing 105 from mobile phones, or by dialing 104 from landline phones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1756293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756293", "title": "Distributed denial-of-service attacks on root nameservers", "text": "Distributed denial-of-service attacks on root nameservers\n\nDistributed denial-of-service attacks on root nameservers are Internet events in which distributed denial-of-service attacks target one or more of the thirteen Domain Name System root nameserver clusters. The root nameservers are critical infrastructure components of the Internet, mapping domain names to IP addresses and other resource record (RR) data.\n\nAttacks against the root nameservers could, in theory, impact operation of the entire global Domain Name System, and thus all Internet services that use the global DNS, rather than just specific websites. However, in practice, the root nameserver infrastructure is highly resilient and distributed, using both the inherent features of DNS (result caching, retries, and multiple servers for the same zone with fallback if one or more fail), and, in recent years, a combination of anycast and load balancer techniques used to implement most of the thirteen nominal individual root servers as globally distributed clusters of servers in multiple data centers.\n\nIn particular, the caching and redundancy features of DNS mean that it would require a sustained outage of all the major root servers for many days before any serious problems were created for most Internet users, and even then there are still numerous ways in which ISPs could set their systems up during that period to mitigate even a total loss of all root servers for an extended period of time: for example by installing their own copies of the global DNS root zone data on nameservers within their network, and redirecting traffic to the root server IP addresses to those servers. Nevertheless, DDoS attacks on the root zone are taken seriously as a risk by the operators of the root nameservers, and they continue to upgrade the capacity and DDoS mitigation capabilities of their infrastructure to resist any future attacks.\n\nAn effective attack against DNS might involve targeting top-level domain servers (such as those servicing the .com domain) instead of root name servers. Alternatively, a man-in-the-middle attack or DNS poisoning attack could be used, though they would be more difficult to carry out.\n\nOn October 21, 2002 an attack lasting for approximately one hour was targeted at all 13 DNS root name servers. The attackers sent many ICMP ping packets using a botnet to each of the servers. However, because the servers were protected by packet filters which were configured to block all incoming ICMP ping packets, they did not sustain much damage and there was little to no impact on Internet users.\n\nOn February 6, 2007 an attack began at 10:00 UTC and lasted twenty-four hours. At least two of the root servers (G-ROOT and L-ROOT) reportedly \"suffered badly\" while two others (F-ROOT and M-ROOT) \"experienced heavy traffic\". The latter two servers largely contained the damage by distributing requests to other root server instances with anycast addressing. ICANN published a formal analysis shortly after the event.\n\nDue to a lack of detail, speculation about the incident proliferated in the press until details were released.\n\nDuring two intervals on November 30, 2015 and December 1, 2015, several of the root name servers received up to 5 million queries per second each, receiving valid queries for a single undisclosed domain name, and then a different domain the next day. Source addresses were spread throughout IPv4 space, however these may have been spoofed. Some root server networks became saturated, resulting in timeouts, however redundancy among the root servers prevented downstream issues from occurring during this incident.\n\nOn February 12, 2012, a statement was posted on Pastebin cited to be from Anonymous, threatening an attack on the root servers on March 31, 2012.\n\n\"To protest SOPA, Wallstreet, our irresponsible leaders and the beloved bankers who are starving the world for their own selfish needs out of sheer sadistic fun, On March 31, anonymous will shut the Internet down,\" reads the statement. \"Remember, this is a protest, we are not trying to ‘kill' the Internet, we are only temporarily shutting it down where it hurts the most…It may only last one hour, maybe more, maybe even a few days. No matter what, it will be global. It will be known.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1585541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1585541", "title": "Domain privacy", "text": "Domain privacy\n\nDomain privacy (often called Whois privacy) is a service offered by a number of domain name registrars. A user buys privacy from the company, who in turn replaces the user's information in the WHOIS with the information of a forwarding service (for email and sometimes postal mail, it is done by a proxy server).\n\n\nNote that some top-level domains have privacy caveats:\n\n\nThe Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) broadly requires the mailing address, phone number, and e-mail address of those owning or administrating a domain name to be made publicly available through the \"WHOIS\" directories. However, that policy may enable spammers, direct marketers, identity thieves, or other attackers to use the directory to acquire personal information about those people. Although ICANN has been working to change WHOIS to enable greater privacy, there is a lack of consensus among major stakeholders as to what type of change should be made. However, with the offer of private registration from many registrars, some of the risk has been mitigated, enabling those spammers, direct marketers, identity thieves, and other cyber-criminals to hide behind anonymous domain registrations to make it difficult or impossible for victims to identify those responsible.\n\nWith \"private registration\", the private registration service can be the legal owner of the domain. This has occasionally resulted in legal problems. Ownership of a domain name is given by the organization name of the owner contact in the domain's WHOIS record. There are typically four contact positions in a domain's WHOIS record: owner, administrator, billing, and technical. Some registrars will not shield the owner organization name in order to protect the ownership of the domain name.\n\nOwnership of domains held by a privacy service was also an issue in the RegisterFly case, in which a registrar effectively ceased operations and then went bankrupt. Customers encountered serious difficulties in regaining control of the domains involved. ICANN has since remedied that situation by requiring all accredited registrars to maintain their customers' contact data in escrow. In the event a registrar loses its accreditation, gTLD domains along with the escrowed contact data will be transferred to another accredited registrar.\n\nThere have been several lawsuits against NameCheap, Inc. for its role as owner/registrant. and also in Silverstein v. Alivemax, et al. Los Angeles Superior Court Case Number BC480994 although this case was dismissed in May of 2014. Silverstein is well known for his anti-spam and email privacy campaigning, most notably in the case of William Siverstein v Keynetics, Inc., No. 17-15176 (9th Cir. 2018) - decided in March 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "13104407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13104407", "title": "Eijirō", "text": "Eijirō\n\nThe Eijirō project was started by a translator (who wishes to remain anonymous) as a way to keep track of his English vocabulary. Noting the favorable reception it received when he shared it with his friends, he started the Electronic Dictionary Project, a wiki-like structure that allowed for and even encouraged contributions to the dictionary. This resulted in a comprehensive database that grew to include over 1.66 million entries in the fourth edition.\n\nAlthough commonly termed a dictionary, Eijirō differs from other Japanese dictionaries such as the Kōjien by giving examples the same weight as definitions. While this may result in less accurate definitions on a one-to-one basis, many translators use Eijirō specifically for this purpose, as this structure allows for a more nuanced understanding of the word and accounts for its appearance in commonly used sayings.\n\nEijirō can be purchased online as either a CD-R or downloadable dictionary file for a comparatively low price. Eijirō was also released from SpaceALC in 2002, and the SpaceALC version has since gone through eight revisions as of 2016.\n\nIn addition, an online version of Eijirō is provided free of charge through the SpaceALC Japanese portal.\n\n"}
{"id": "12407726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12407726", "title": "Estonica", "text": "Estonica\n\nEstonica is a comprehensive encyclopædia on topics relating to Estonia, particularly the culture and history of Estonia.\n\nThe project has been developed by Estonian Institute since 2000. It is sponsored by, among others, Tiigrihüpe.\n\nMaterials of \"Estonica\" are available in Estonian as well as Russian and English, and are reusable under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license.\n\n"}
{"id": "58386652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58386652", "title": "Euro Hockey League clubs performance comparison", "text": "Euro Hockey League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in Euro Hockey League is below.\n\n"}
{"id": "33487037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33487037", "title": "Filmoteca de Catalunya", "text": "Filmoteca de Catalunya\n\nThe Filmoteca de Catalunya is a film archive located in Catalunya, Spain, aiming at the preservation of film and the dissemination of audiovisual and film culture. Its head office and public rooms (cinemas, exhibition rooms, library) are located in the Raval neighbourhood, in central Barcelona. The Centre de Conservació i Restauració (the institution's Center for Conservation and Restoration) is located in the \"Parc Audiovisual\" in Terrassa.\n\nThe Filmoteca de Catalunya did not exist as such until 1981. Instead, from 1963 to 1981 it was the Spanish Filmoteca's branch in Barcelona. In 1981, once a democratic regime had been re-established in Spain, the Spanish Filmoteca transferred its responsibilities and cultural competences to the Generalitat de Catalunya, which then created the Filmoteca de Catalunya. Since its foundation, the Filmoteca de Catalunya has been under the auspices of the Culture Department of the Catalan government.\n\nFor some years, the Filmoteca de Catalunya's main activity was the daily screening of worldwide and Catalan films. Yet efforts were soon made to create a film collection. Consequently, a Film Archive, now called \"Centre de Conservació i Restauració\" (Centre for Conservation and Restoration), was established in 1992.\n\nOver the course of its history, the Filmoteca de Catalunya has also moved to different venues in Barcelona. Its first theatrical venue was located in Travessera de Gràcia, and in 1991 it moved to an old cinema, the Cinema Aquitània, where it held its screenings for more than twenty years. During this time, the Centre for Conservation and Restoration was located in a different area in Barcelona. In 2012 the Filmoteca de Catalunya relocated to its current headquarters in central Barcelona, and in 2014, the Centre for Conservation and Restoration was opened in Terrassa.\n\nThe promotion and dissemination of cinema and film culture -in particular, of Catalan film heritage- is among the main aims of the Filmoteca de Catalunya. Such an aim is fulfilled through different activities and programs:\n\n\nThe Filmoteca de Catalunya maintains the largest Catalan film archive, preserved and restored at the Centre for Conservation and Restoration, the \"Centre de Conservació i Restauració\" (in Catalan). The archive has more than 170,000 film reels containing nearly 23,500 titles, as well as 41,000 documents. The majority of the collection is Catalan material, but it also features some holdings from around the world. The film holdings of the Filmoteca de Catalunya consist, among other things, of such important collections as: the Catalan Cinema Collection, the Segundo de Chomón Collection, the Laya Films Collection -which includes most of the films shot by the Republican production units during the Spanish Civil War- and several private collections that were donated to the institution.\nThe main objective of the Centre for Conservation and Restoration is the recovery, preservation, restoration, cataloguing and dissemination of its collection.\n\nThe Filmoteca de Catalunya's Film Library, the \"Biblioteca del Cinema\" (in Catalan) holds more that 40.000 documents and is part of several Catalan and International library networks and catalogues: the Generalitat de Catalunya's Specialized Libraries Catalogue, the Collective Catalogue of the Catalan Universities and BiblioCi, the international network of Latin American, Caribbean and Spanish information units (documentation centers and libraries) specializing in cinema. The Library was born as a result of the transfer of the Spanish Filmoteca's collection and of the CO.CI.CA (Catalan Cinematographic Collection) collected by Miquel Porter i Moix. The Library also holds the Delmiro de Caralt Collection (formed by cameras and other cinema objects), created by Delmiro de Caralt and Pilar de Quadras in 1924.\n\nThe Filmoteca de Catalunya is a member of the International Federation of Film Archives and in April 2013 held the organisation's International Congress in Barcelona, which was attended by more than 300 members of film institutes from 62 different countries.\n\nSince 2014, the Filmoteca de Catalunya has also been one of the venues hosting the simultaneous screening of the European Film Academy Young Audience Award.\n\nIn June 2015, the Filmoteca also held an international Seminar on Orson Welles on his centennial, with the participation of several experts in the director's career as well as Chris Welles Feder, Welles' daughter. During the seminar, the Filmoteca de Catalunya organized a special screening of \"Chimes at Midnight\" in the Romanesque Church of St. Vicenç in Cardona, where the film was originally shot in 1964. As a result of this screening, in 2016 the church was listed as one of the Treasures of European Film Culture by the European Film Academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53316084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53316084", "title": "Flore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie", "text": "Flore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie\n\nFlore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie is an ongoing multi-volume flora describing the vascular plants of New Caledonia (including the Loyalty Islands, Isles of Pines and Belep islands) in the South-West Pacific. published by the National Museum of Natural History in Paris since 1967. Each species treatment typically includes taxonomic information, morphological description, a line drawing and a distribution map. Originally published as Flore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie et Dépendances, since 2014 it has been renamed shortly Flore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie and is co-published with Institut de Recherche pour le Développement in a fully colored format.\nFlore de la Nouvelle-Calédonie currently consists of 26 volumes, covering little over 50% of a total of approximately 3,400 species native to the New Caledonian archipelago. Major botanical families awaiting treatment include Rubiaceae, Cyperaceae, Rutaceae and Poaceae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2548934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548934", "title": "Frisch–Peierls memorandum", "text": "Frisch–Peierls memorandum\n\nThe Frisch–Peierls memorandum was the first technical exposition of a practical nuclear weapon. It was written by expatriate German physicists Otto Frisch and Rudolf Peierls in March 1940 while they were both working for Mark Oliphant at the University of Birmingham in Britain during World War II.\n\nThe memorandum contained the first calculations about the size of the critical mass of fissile material needed for an atomic bomb. It revealed for the first time that the amount required might be small enough to incorporate into a bomb that could be delivered by air. It also anticipated the strategic and moral implications of nuclear weapons.\n\nIt helped send both Britain and America down a path which led to the MAUD Committee, the Tube Alloys project, the Manhattan Project, and ultimately the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nRudolf Peierls was born in Berlin in 1907. He studied physics at the University of Berlin, at the University of Munich under Arnold Sommerfeld, the University of Leipzig under Werner Heisenberg, and ETH Zurich under Wolfgang Pauli. After receiving his DPhil from Leipzig in 1929, he became an assistant to Pauli in Zurich. In 1932, he was awarded a Rockefeller Fellowship, which he used to study in Rome under Enrico Fermi, and then at the Cavendish Laboratory at the University of Cambridge under Ralph H. Fowler. Due to Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany, he elected to not return home in 1933, but to remain in Britain. He worked with Hans Bethe at the University of Manchester, then at the Mond Laboratory at Cambridge. In 1937, Mark Oliphant, the Australian, newly appointed professor of physics at the University of Birmingham recruited him for a new chair there in applied mathematics.\n\nOtto Robert Frisch was born in Vienna in 1904. He studied physics at the University of Vienna, from which he received his DPhil in 1926. He worked at the Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt in Berlin until 1930, when he obtained a position at the University of Hamburg under the Nobel Prize-winning scientist Otto Stern. As non-Aryans, Stern and Frisch were dismissed after Hitler's accession. Stern found Frisch a position in Britain with Patrick Blackett at Birbeck College at the University of London, and a grant from the Academic Assistance Council. He followed this with a five-year stint at the Niels Bohr Institute in Copenhagen with Niels Bohr where he increasingly specialised in nuclear physics, particularly the physics of neutrons, which had been discovered by James Chadwick in 1932. Oliphant invited Frisch to come to the University of Birmingham in the summer of 1939. When the outbreak of the Second World War in September 1939 prevented his return to Copenhagen, Oliphant found him a position at the University of Birmingham.\n\nDuring the Christmas holiday in 1938, Frisch visited his aunt Lise Meitner in Kungälv in Sweden, where she had been forced to relocate after Germany's annexation of Austria made her a German citizen. While there she received the news that her former colleagues Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann in Berlin had discovered that the collision of a neutron with a uranium nucleus produced barium as one of its byproducts. Frisch and Meitner hypothesized that the uranium nucleus had split in two. They estimated the energy released at around 200 MeV, and Frisch appropriated the term fission from biology to describe it. Hahn's paper described the experiment and the finding of the barium byproduct. Meitner's and Frisch's paper explained the physics behind the phenomenon. Frisch went back to Copenhagen, where he was able to isolate the fragments produced by fission reactions. Frisch later recalled that: \n\nThe news of the discovery of fission was brought to America by Bohr in January 1939. Bohr and John A. Wheeler set to work applying the liquid drop model developed by Bohr and Fritz Kalckar to explain the mechanism of nuclear fission. George Placzek, who was skeptical about the whole idea of fission, challenged Bohr to explain why uranium seemed to fission with both very fast and very slow neutrons. Bohr had an epiphany that the fission at low energies was due to the uranium-235 isotope, while at high energies it was mainly due to the more abundant uranium-238 isotope. The former makes up just 0.7% of natural uranium; while that latter accounts for 99.3%. On 16 April, Bohr, Placzek, Wheeler, Eugene Wigner and Leon Rosenfeld discussed whether it would be possible to use a nuclear chain reaction to make an atomic bomb, and concluded that it was not. Bohr observed that \"It would take the entire efforts of a country to make a bomb.\"\n\nIn Britain, scientists also considered whether an atomic bomb was practical. At the University of Liverpool, Chadwick and the Polish refugee scientist Joseph Rotblat tackled the problem, but their calculations were inconclusive. At Cambridge, Nobel Prize in Physics laureates George Paget Thomson and William Lawrence Bragg wanted the government to take urgent action to acquire uranium ore to keep it out of German hands. The Secretary of the Committee for Imperial Defence, Major General Hastings Ismay asked Sir Henry Tizard for an opinion. Tizard was sceptical of the likelihood of an atomic bomb being developed, reckoning the odds of success at 100,000 to 1.\n\nEven at such long odds, the danger was sufficiently great to be taken seriously. It was not considered worthwhile to immediately acquire the uranium, but Tizard's Committee on the Scientific Survey of Air Defence was directed to conduct research into the feasibility of atomic bombs. Thomson, at Imperial College London, and Oliphant, at the University of Birmingham, were tasked with carrying out a series of experiments on uranium. By February 1940, Thomson's team had failed to create a chain reaction in natural uranium, and he had decided that it was not worth pursuing.\n\nAs enemy aliens, at least until Peierls' naturalisation papers came through in February 1940, Frisch and Peierls were excluded from the most important–and secret–war work being done by Oliphant's team at Birmingham, that on radar. However, Oliphant would ask Peierls a theoretical question about, say, the solution to Maxwell's equations in a hemispheric cavity. Peierls knew that questions of this nature related to the work on microwave radar, and Oliphant was doubtless aware of this too, but the façade of secrecy was maintained. The nuclear investigation was not yet secret, so Frisch was available to work on it. He began experimenting with uranium enrichment through thermal diffusion, a process first demonstrated in Germany by Klaus Clusius. Progress was slow; the required equipment was not available, and the radar project had first call on the available resources.\n\nFrancis Perrin had defined a critical mass of uranium to be the smallest amount that could sustain a chain reaction, and had calculated the critical mass of uranium oxide (not metal) to be about . He reckoned that if a neutron reflector were placed around it of materials such as iron or lead which did not greatly impede fast neutrons, this might be reduced to . Peierls also attempted to simplify the problem by using the fast neutrons produced by fission, thus omitting consideration of moderator. He then calculated the critical mass of a sphere of uranium metal in a theoretical paper written in 1939. He later recalled that the size of the critical mass \"was of the order of tons. It therefore appeared to me that the paper had no relevance to a nuclear weapon.\"\n\nHowever, Bohr had argued that the uranium-235 isotope was far more likely to capture neutrons, so fissile even using neutrons of low energy. Frisch wondered what would happen if he were able to produce a sphere of pure uranium-235. When he used Peierls' formula to calculate this, he received a startling answer. Peierls later observed that: \n\nRealising the sensitive nature of the document, Peierls typed it himself. One carbon copy was made.\nToday the original is in the Bodleian Library at Oxford University.\n\nThe memorandum was written in two parts. The first was an elegant and comprehensive outline of the implications of their calculations. It included a proposal that the best defence against such a weapon would be to develop one before Germany did so. In a few short pages these two scientists anticipated the policies of deterrence which would shape Cold War geopolitics. The second was an explanation of the science supporting their conclusions. The memorandum opens with:\nPeierls' starting point was a paper by Francis Perrin, in which he had derived critical mass calculations in terms of nuclear constants. The physicists considered a sphere, which has the minimum surface area for a given volume. A critical mass occurs when the number of neutrons produced equals the number that escape. Perrin assumed that the mean free path was much larger than the radius of the sphere. Peierls did not agree, and commenced his own calculations. A key insight came from Frisch, who wondered what would happen if, instead of natural uranium, someone gave you a sphere of the uranium-235 isotope, By definition, the mean free path is:\nwhere is the mean free path, is the number of target particles per unit volume, and is the effective fission cross section area. Peierls did not perform the calculation, leaving this task to Frisch. The chemistry of uranium was not well known at the time, and Frisch believed that its density was ; the true value is more like . The fission cross section value was more problematic. For this, Frisch turned to a 1939 \"Nature\" article by L. A. Goldstein, A. Rogozinski and R. J. Walen at the Radium Institute in Paris, who gave a value of . This was too large by an order of magnitude; a modern value is about . Using the values he had, Frisch calculated the value of the mean free path for uranium-235 using Avogadro's constant:\n\nPeierls and Frisch claimed that the critical radius was about 0.8 times the mean free path. From this, Frisch could calculate the volume of the sphere from the well-known equation:\n\nThe mass then comes out to be:\n\nFrisch and Peierls then considered the speed of a uranium fission chain reaction, exponential in nature, where \"τ is the time required for the neutron density to multiply by a factor \"e\".\" It should be noted that the available data was very approximate, but their central point - that a bomb was possible using fast (~2MeV) neutrons - remains. Jeremy Bernstein remarked of this effort: \"Let me make the same point by asking a somewhat different question but using the correct numbers. How much time does it take to fission a kilogram of U using fast neutrons?\" Using modern values he found that to be \"equal to about a microsecond, which makes the point about the rapidity of fission with fact [sic] neutrons\".\n\nIn the original memorandum, if the neutrons had velocities of 10 cm/s, then they would have an average time between fission collisions of . Therefore, Bernstein's time for a kilogram of uranium-235 to fission is found by solving:\nwhere was the mean time for fission neutron density to increase by \"e\". Given the doubling-time\nthis implied a mean fission exponential folding time of\n\nThis led to a calculation of the energy released, which Peierls reckoned as approximately:\nwhere \"M\" is the mass of the sphere, \"r\" is the radius, and \"r\" is the critical mass radius.\n\nThe conclusion drawn was that a few kilograms would explode with the energy of thousands of tons of dynamite.\n\nThe memorandum was given to Oliphant, who passed it on to Tizard in his capacity as the chairman of the Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Warfare (CSSAW). He in turn passed them to Thomson, the chairman of the committee to which the CSSAW had delegated responsibility for uranium research. Thomson's committee was about to disband. It had studied nuclear reactions in uranium, and the use of graphite as a neutron moderator in a nuclear reactor, but its results had been negative, and it had concluded that the rate of capture of neutrons by the graphite was too great to make such a reactor a practical proposition. The Frisch–Peierls memorandum caused Thomson to reconsider. After discussions between Cockcroft, Oliphant and Thomson, CSSAW created the MAUD Committee to investigate further. As enemy aliens, Peierls and Frisch were initially excluded from its deliberations, but they were later added to its technical subcommittee.\n\nThe research from the MAUD committee was compiled in two reports, commonly known as the MAUD reports in July 1941. The first report, \"Use of Uranium for a Bomb\", discussed the feasibility of creating a super-bomb from uranium, which they now thought to be true.The second, \"Use of Uranium as a Source of Power\" discussed the idea of using uranium as a source of power, not just a bomb. The MAUD Committee and report helped bring about the British nuclear program, the Tube Alloys Project. Not only did it help start a nuclear project in Britain but it helped jump-start the American project. Without the help of the MAUD Committee the American program, the Manhattan Project, would have started months behind. Instead they were able to begin thinking about how to create a bomb, not whether it was possible. Historian Margaret Gowing noted that \"events that change a time scale by only a few months can nevertheless change history.\"\n\nIn August 1941, Oliphant was sent to the US to assist the Americans with microwave radar. He took the initiative to enlighten the scientific community there of the ground-breaking discoveries of the MAUD Committee. He travelled to Berkeley to meet with his friend Ernest Lawrence, who soon caught his enthusiasm. Oliphant convinced the Americans to move forward with nuclear weapons, and his lobbying resulted in Vannevar Bush taking the report directly to the president. Leo Szilard later wrote: \"if Congress knew the true history of the atomic energy project, I have no doubt but that it would create a special medal to be given to meddling foreigners for distinguished services, and that Dr Oliphant would be the first to receive one.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7998563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7998563", "title": "Girgam", "text": "Girgam\n\nThe Girgam (or \"Diwan\") is the royal chronicle of the Kanem-Bornu Empire, written in Arabic. Girgam is also used as the name for written historical records in some kingdoms west of Bornu, including Daura, Fika and Mandara.\n\n\"A very meagre and incorrect abridgement\" of the \"Girgam\" was provided by a local associated with the Sefuwa dynasty to the German traveller Heinrich Barth in 1851, in Kukawa, the nineteenth century capital of Bornu. Barth reported that a translation was published in 1852\n\nIt provides the names of 69 rulers of Kanem-Bornu and some supplementary information concerning the length of their reigns, their ascendancy, and often some events of their reigns. The information given by several Arab authors (Ibn Sa'īd, al-Maqrīzī and al-Qalqashandī) confirm the validity of the data provided by the Girgam. On the basis of these sources, a nearly accurate chronology of the rulers of Kanem-Bornu can be established between the tenth and the nineteenth centuries. Since the fall of the Sefuwa dynasty in 1846, \"the new dynasty of the Kánemíyín [Kānemī] endeavours to obliterate as much as possible the memory of the old Kanúri [Sefuwa] dynasty, and has assiduously destroyed all its records wherever they could be laid hold of.\". The two copies of the chronicle obtained by Barth are the only ones that are known to have survived [citation needed].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34136425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34136425", "title": "GuidePal", "text": "GuidePal\n\nGuidePal is a mobile and web-based application that provides city guides via iPhone, iPad, and Android. Described as a \"mobile travel and city discovery companion\", their city guide app currently covers 57 destinations and can be accessed for free.\n\nGuidePal was founded in 2009. The company's head office is based in Stockholm, Sweden,\n\nGuidePal’s city guides are created by collaboration between locals and travel journalists. In the guides, GuidePal aims to offer an unbiased selection of each city’s highlights, with all tips, and advice, curated by experts actually living in the city.\n\nUsers can build their own personalised guides, create itineraries, invite friends and share tips with them, and book restaurants, hotels, tours, event tickets, and so on. The guides and maps can be made available offline.\n\nThe guides are written in English.\n\nThe content is broadly divided into seven sections: More About the City, Essentials, See & Do, Eat, Shop, Party, Stay. Subcategories include: Transportation, Airports and Useful Tips.\n\nIn March 2012, GuidePal released its first multi-destination app for iPhone. Three months later, the iPad version was released and achieved a \"New and Noteworthy\" status in the App Store. Since then, the company has also released a completely revamped multi-city app for Android.\n\nThe mobile travel market has seen a lot of new entrants in recent years with a clear \"mobile first\" product approach. This means that the core product and service offering are Mobile apps for smartphone and tablet computer. In contrast to (incumbent) companies that start on the web and add auxiliary mobile web or app products to expand their reach.\n\nWhile mobile travel is a crowded space with new companies entering the market every month, only a few young companies have managed to reach a meaningful size of a million users. Among those companies are: GuidePal, Ulmon, Triposo, Pocket Guide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39902686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39902686", "title": "International Socialist Organization", "text": "International Socialist Organization\n\nThe International Socialist Organization (ISO) is a socialist organization in the United States that identifies with Trotskyism, Leninism and the Marxist political tradition of \"socialism from below\".\n\nThe ISO advocates replacing the capitalist system with socialism, a system in which society's collective wealth and resources would be democratically controlled to meet human need by those who produce that wealth, i.e. the working class. The organization specifically argues that this working-class majority can end capitalism by leveraging their power over production through mass strikes, and that the creation of a revolutionary workers' party is necessary in coordinating and building the power of such a movement.\" The ISO supports struggles for economic, political, and social reforms while also maintaining that exploitation, oppression, war, and environmental destruction cannot be eliminated until capitalism is overthrown and replaced with socialism. Because capitalism is a global system, the ISO argues that capitalism cannot be successfully overthrown in individual countries. The ISO holds that the former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc as well as China and Cuba are examples of bureaucratic, class-stratified states, not socialist societies.\n\nThe ISO originated in 1976 among a number of groups in the American International Socialists (IS) that were growing increasingly critical of the organization's leadership. Among them was the self-identified Left Faction, which was led by Cal and Barbara Winslow and supported by the IS's Canadian and British members. The Left Faction and its international supporters maintained that the IS's leadership had acquired a top-down style of operating that depoliticized the organization and placed too much emphasis on sending student activists into working class employment (a tactic referred to as \"industrialization\"). These disputes followed the disagreements over the 1974 revolution in Portugal. Additionally, the main part of IS thought that there should be attention to rank and file or reform caucuses in unions, ISO has said (to this day, the ISO is largely a campus-bases group although in recent years they have made some inroads into the union movement), whereas the Left Faction contended that in addition to rank and file work, agitation at the workplace for socialism should continue. In 1977, the Left Faction was expelled from the IS and immediately formed the International Socialist Organization. The ISO began publication of its paper, \"Socialist Worker\", shortly after its formation and continues to produce a monthly print version as well as a daily updated website.\n\nSome of the political theories adopted by the ISO had been developed in the British Socialist Workers Party (SWP), including that of \"state capitalism\" developed though not originated by Tony Cliff, the party's founder. State capitalist theory identifies the former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc as exploitative class societies driven by military competition with private Western capitalism, rather than as the \"deformed workers' states\" that Trotsky maintained they were in \"The Revolution Betrayed\".\n\nIn 2001, the ISO was expelled from the International Socialist Tendency (IST) after a dispute with the British SWP. This dispute was framed by the SWP as a critique of the ISO's conservative approach to the anti-corporate/anti-capitalist movement. The ISO disputed this claim and criticized the SWP for maintaining what the ISO viewed as an exaggerated perspective for the 1990s, which the SWP characterized as \"the 1930s in slow motion\".\n\nIn November 2013, nine members of the ISO, mostly in Providence and Boston, announced the formation of the ISO Renewal Faction, resulting in the organization's first national-level faction fight since the dispute with the British SWP. The faction claimed that the ISO was going through an organizational and political crisis and that members critical of the leadership had been \"bureaucratically excluded\". The ISO leadership denied these claims, stating that \"the ISO is more experienced and more engaged than ever\". On February 17, 2014, the ISO expelled the Renewal Faction. On March 8, the organization's student branch at Brown University resigned, citing the expulsion of the faction as an indication that the organization had \"shown itself to be undemocratic.\"\n\nIn a 2013 \"CounterPunch\"'s article, the magazine's editor Jeffrey St. Clair wrote that ISO is becoming less socialist in membership and identification and opined that they are more concerned with \"lash[ing] out at nearly every popular uprising of the last 50 years for being doctrinally impure, from the Cuban Revolution to the Zapatistas, from the street protests at the WTO to the Bolivaran Revolution\".\n\nThe ISO publishes a daily online and monthly print newspaper, \"Socialist Worker\", with a bi-monthly Spanish language supplement, \"Obrero Socialista\". The ISO also distributes the \"International Socialist Review\" and titles from the publishing house Haymarket Books, both of which are run by the non-profit Center for Economic Research and Social Change.\n\nThe ISO participates in several local and national progressive movements. These include the antiwar movement, efforts to end the death penalty, support for gay marriage and abortion rights as well as the struggle for immigration rights, among others.\n\nThe ISO does not support the Republican Party or Democratic Party, both of which it views as political representatives of corporate power. However, the group has campaigned for the Green Party in various races and assisted Ralph Nader's presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2004. In California, ISO member Todd Chretien challenged Dianne Feinstein for a seat in the Senate on the Green Party ticket, receiving 139,425 votes (1.8 percent) in 2006.\n\nIn October 2013, the ISO endorsed the candidacy of Socialist Alternative's Kshama Sawant in the Seattle City Council election.\n\nThe ISO is the co-sponsor, along with the Center for Economic Research and Social Change, of an annual conference titled Socialism. Speakers at past Socialism conferences include filmmaker and author Tariq Ali, actor Wallace Shawn, \"The Nation\" sportswriter Dave Zirin, writer Glenn Greenwald, journalist Amy Goodman, professor Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, environmental writer John Bellamy Foster, \"The Nation\" contributor Jeremy Scahill, Iraq Veterans Against the War member Camilo Mejía, Palestinian rights activists Omar Barghouti and Ali Abunimah and actor John Cusack.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19194044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194044", "title": "Iraqi Virtual Science Library", "text": "Iraqi Virtual Science Library\n\nThe Iraqi Virtual Science Library is an Iraqi Virtual Library providing Iraqi academics with access to recourses via the internet. The library, launched in May 2006, initially provided access to more than one million articles from 17,000 electronic journals and other resources. Access to this knowledge is considered vital for the rebuilding of Iraq as it will improve the curriculum which suffered under Saddam Hussein's regime. The library is part of the overall plan to improve access to information in Iraq.\n\nThe library's creation was spearheaded by a group of American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) fellows, including D.J. Patil, a scientist from the University of Maryland, College Park, in connection with JSTOR.\nThe library was funded in part by the US Department of Defense.\n\nThe U.S. Civilian Research & Development Foundation (CRDF) has managed the Iraqi Virtual Science Library following its official launch in May 2006. Continued funding has been provided by the US Department of State and the United States Department of Energy\n\nIn 2008, the Iraqi Virtual Science Library was expanded to provide access to all public universities in Iraq and a handful of Iraqi Ministries that are key to reconstruction efforts and future development.\n\nIn 2010 to present the IVSL managed and funded by Ministry of higher education and scientific research in Iraq.\n\nUniversity of Anbar\nAl-Mustansiriya University\nAl Muthanna University\nAl-Nahrain University\nAl Qadissiya University\nBabylon University\nBaghdad University\nBasrah University\nDiyala University\nUniversity of Dohuk\nHawler Medical University - Kurdistan\nThe Islamic University, Baghdad\nUniversity of Karbala\nKirkuk University\nUniversity of Koya\nKufa University\nUniversity of Kurdistan - Hawler\nMisan University\nMosul University\nSalahaddin University\nUniversity of Sulaimani\nThi Qar University\nTikrit University\nUniversity of Technology, Iraq\nWassit University\nIraqi Academy of Science\nMinistry of Environment (Iraq)\nMinistry of Science and Technology (Iraq)\nMinistry of Electricity (Iraq)\nMinistry of Oil (Iraq)\nMinistry of Agriculture (Iraq)\nMinistry of Health (Iraq)\nMinistry of Water Resources (Iraq)\nMinistry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Iraq)\nMinistry of Municipalities and Public Works (Iraq)\n\n"}
{"id": "986065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986065", "title": "John Gall (author)", "text": "John Gall (author)\n\nJohn Gall (September 18, 1925 - December 15, 2014) was an American author and retired pediatrician. Gall is known for his 1975 book \"General systemantics: an essay on how systems work, and especially how they fail...\", a critique of systems theory. One of the statements from this book has become known as Gall's law.\n\nGall started his studies in St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland. He received further medical training at George Washington University Medical School in Washington, and Yale College. Eventually early 1960s he took his pediatric training at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nIn the 1960s Gall started as a practicing pediatrician in Ann Arbor, Michigan and became part of the faculty of the University of Michigan. In 2001 he retired after more than forty years of private practice. In the first decades of his practice he had also \"conducted weekly seminars in Parenting Strategies for parents, prospective parents, medical students, nursing students, and other health care practitioners.\" Until 2001 he held the position of Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Michigan. Since 1958 he has been Fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics.\n\nAfter he retired, Gall and his wife Carol A. Gall moved to Walker, Minnesota, where he continued writing and published seven more titles.\nHe died in December 2014.\n\nGall's main research interest was the behavioral and developmental problems of children, on which subject he published several scientific papers and some books. As a sideline he conducted more general research on the question, what makes systems work and fail. He collected and analyzed all kinds of examples of systems-failures, and generalized problems and pitfalls into a series of \"Laws of Systems\".\n\nIn 2002 Gall also published a historical novel on Hatshepsut, queen of ancient Egypt in the Eighteenth Dynasty. This interest arose from a trip John Gall had made to Egypt in 1969.\n\nIn 1975 he published his systems research under the title \"General systemantics\", republished two years later as \"Systemantics: How Systems Work and Especially How They Fail\" by Quadrangle, The New York Times Book Company. This work has been translated into Spanish, German, Hebrew, and Japanese.\n\nIn 1986 the second edition was published with the title \"Systemantics: The Underground Text of Systems Lore.\", which was almost twice the size of the first edition.\n\nIn 2002 he published a third edition under the title \"The Systems Bible\". This work inspired many authors in the systems movement, such as scientists as Mario Bunge ( 1979), Paul Watzlawick (1990), Russell L. Ackoff (1999) and systems designers as Ken Orr (1981) and Grady Booch (1991); and many author beyond that scene.\n\nGall's Law is a rule of thumb for systems design from Gall's book \"Systemantics: How Systems Really Work and How They Fail\". It states:\n\nThis law is essentially an argument in favour of underspecification: it can be used to explain the success of systems like the World Wide Web and Blogosphere, which grew from simple to complex systems incrementally, and the failure of systems like CORBA, which began with complex specifications. Gall's Law has strong affinities to the practice of agile software development.\n\nAlthough dubbed \"Gall's Law\" by some, the phrase is not labeled as such in the original work. The work cites Murphy's Law and the Peter Principle, and is filled with similar sayings.\n\nAlthough the quote may seem to validate the merits of simple systems, it is preceded by the qualifier \"A simple system may or may not work.\" (p. 70). This philosophy can also be attributed to extreme programming, which encourages doing the simplest thing first and adding features later.\n\nOne of the first systems designers to quote Gall's law was Ken Orr in 1981. Notable were the quotations of Gall's Law by Grady Booch since 1991, which were mentioned in multiple sources.\n\nSystemantics (a change in typography and underlining indicate that the title is better rendered as \"SystemANTICS\") is a commentary on systems theory and general semantics publications by such thinkers as Ludwig von Bertalanffy and Alfred Korzybski.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54505884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54505884", "title": "King Fib", "text": "King Fib\n\n\"For the Kingdom of Fib see Kingdom of Fib.\"\n\nFib is a mythological Pictish prince mentioned in the Pictish Chronicle. He was king of the Fib Kingdom (Fife), he ruled for 24 years along with his brothers, Cat, Fidach, Cé, Fótla, Circinn and Fortriu. He was the son of Cruithne, king of all of the Picts who supposedly ruled for 100 years. Fib's rule may of been 715-691 BCE according to the Pictish Chronicles \"Fibaid xxiiij\" which translates to Fib ruled for 24 years. The chronicles also state that the brothers ruled one after the other.\n"}
{"id": "22734086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22734086", "title": "Lisle Papers", "text": "Lisle Papers\n\nThe Lisle Papers are the correspondence received in Calais between 1533 and 1540 by Arthur Plantagenet, 1st Viscount Lisle (c.1480-1542), Lord Deputy of Calais, an illegitimate son of King Edward IV and an uncle of King Henry VIII, and by his wife, Honor Plantagenet, Viscountess Lisle (born Honor Grenville and formerly the wife of Sir John Bassett (d.1529) of Umberleigh in Devon), from several servants, courtiers, royal officials, friends, children and other relatives. They are an important source of information on domestic life in the Tudor age and of life at the court of Henry VIII.\n\nAlthough long available as transcriptions in the Letters and Papers of Henry VIII, they were first published as an annotated collection in 1981 as a six-volume edition, titled \"The Lisle Letters\", and an abridged selection in one volume was published in 1983, both edited by Muriel St Clare Byrne. \n\nThe entire collection, now housed within the State Papers of the United Kingdom at the National Archives at Kew, comprises about 3,000 documents, ranging in date from 1 January 1533 to 31 December 1540. During this time Lord Lisle was based at Calais whilst performing his office of Lord Deputy of Calais. The correspondence is between Lord and Lady Lisle and their family, acquaintances at court, retainers, and servants. The main correspondent was John Husee, Lord Lisle's London agent.\n\nFollowing Lisle's arrest for alleged treason in 1540, as was usual in such cases, all his papers in the Staple Inn in Calais, his official residence, were confiscated and placed in the Tower of London. It is one of only three such collections to have survived, and it's the only one still largely intact and not amalgamated with similar documents, the others being the papers of Thomas Cromwell (State Papers, Henry VIII, SP 1) and the small collection of Lord Darcy's papers. A few further documents from the correspondence of the Lisles survived outside the collection originally deposited in the Tower and are contained in the Cotton, Harleian and Royal Manuscripts in the British Library. Some also were transferred to the Thomas Cromwell collection. The papers deposited in the Tower were subsequently transferred to the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey, in the category \"Treasury of the Receipt of the Exchequer\", and remained there until 1832 when the Home Office ordered their removal to the care of the State Paper Commission at the State Paper Office, amalgamated with the Public Record Office in 1852, which was recently re-founded as the National Archives. They are held today at the National Archives in the category \"State Papers Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII, SP3, Lisle Papers\"\n\nSummaries of The Lisle Letters were published between 1862 and 1930 scattered within the 33 volumes of the \"Calendar of Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, of Henry VIII\" edited by J. S. Brewer, J. Gairdner and R H Brodie (London 1862-1930). In the early 1930s, Muriel St. Clare Byrne, then a young student of Tudor England, started an exhaustive study of the approximately 3,000 original documents then at the Public Record Office comprising the Lisle Papers. Her work in transcribing, annotating and arranging the letters lasted several decades and was not published until 1981. Two editions have been published as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51258021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51258021", "title": "List of Hokkien dictionaries", "text": "List of Hokkien dictionaries\n\nList of Hokkien dictionaries, also known as Minnan or Taiwanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "43999326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43999326", "title": "Moan (film)", "text": "Moan (film)\n\nMoan is a 1999 gay pornographic horror film directed by David Thompson, and written by Alex Nixx. It is based on the 1996 film \"Scream\" by Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson.\n\nWhile making popcorn, Kenny is called by an unknown person, who flirts with him. The conversation turns disturbing, and ends when a man wearing a hood and face paint breaks into Kenny's house, and rapes him. The next day, Kenny's friends discuss what happened to him, revealing that he was so traumatized from being sexually assaulted that he has suffered a mental breakdown. Investigating the attack is Deputy Derek, who questions Kenny's friends, all of whom have reasonable alibis. Derek then has sex with Ricky, and afterward Ricky mentions that Kenny had recently dumped Stuart.\n\nAfter Derek leaves, dismissing a nosy reporter on his way out, Sam chats with Tom, and brings up Chris, his boyfriend who had been raped and murdered almost a year ago, supposedly by a man named Steve Warner. Sam goes home, and after masturbating he is taunted over the phone by Kenny's rapist, who then attacks him. Sam fights off his assailant, and accuses Brian of being him, as he showed up right after the attack, cellular phone in hand. Brian is arrested by Derek, but is released the next day, due to a lack of evidence, and Sam getting another call from the rapist.\n\nDespite all that has happened, everyone attends a party being held at Stuart's house. Tom goes to get beer and light bulbs out of the garage, where he is confronted by and has sex with the rapist, who drowns him in a hot tub afterward. Ricky goes to look for Tom, and is locked in the garage by the rapist, revealed to be Brian, who is working with Stuart. Brian murdered Chris and framed his boyfriend Steve for it because Chris and Steve were having an affair, and now he and Stuart are going to kill Sam, after forcing him to participate in a threesome, as \"no porno is complete without a good threeway\". When the trio ejaculates, Derek and the reporter enter, and arrest Brian and Stuart, the reporter having recorded the two bragging about their crimes from outside.\n\n\nJeremy Spencer of \"GayVN\" gave \"Moan\" a 3½ out of 5, criticizing the editing and direction, but still calling it \"a fast-paced sexual romp that is both hysterical and creepy\" with a cast composed of \"powerhouse sexual performers and some decent actors\". A score of 3/4 was given to the film by the Gay Erotic Video Index, which wrote, \"It's a funny, campy spoof that is loaded with hot sex, over-the-top performances and a spattering of technical snafus\". The film won Best Sex Comedy at the 2000 GayVN Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "25679230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25679230", "title": "NEO CANDO", "text": "NEO CANDO\n\nNortheast Ohio Community and Neighborhood Data for Organizing (NEO CANDO) is an online database built and managed by the Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development, under the direction of Co-director Claudia Coulton at the Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences in Cleveland, Ohio. The database was started in 1988 as CANDO and now houses data for a 17-county region centering on the Greater Cleveland, and the Cuyahoga County area in Northeast Ohio. This data is varied in its completeness for geographies, but contains crime data for the City of Cleveland, food stamp and TANF usage counts, social indicators, economic indicators, and a restricted-use section for properties in the foreclosure, sheriff's sale and Real Estate Owned (REO) process. These data are used by neighborhood associations, Non-profit organizations, governmental agencies such as the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission, and Community Development Corporations such as Slavic Village Development, to plan activities, or to improve neighborhoods, or to propose social programing, and to combat the advance of urban decay accelerated by the 2010 United States foreclosure crisis.\n\nIts use to combat the negative effects of the foreclosure crisis, has been noted and supported as a national model at conferences, such as the national Reclaiming Vacant Properties Conference and in several reports, such as Forefront, a publication of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, and REO & Vacant Properties: Strategies for Neighborhood Stabilization which is a joint publication of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Cleveland and the Board of Governors. \n\nThe Center is a member of the National Neighborhood Indicators Partnership (NNIP), a nationwide partnership of 34 similar organizations, an initiative of the Urban Institute. The mission of the partnership is to democratize social, economic, and other indicator data down to the neighborhoods level for use by local governments and other agencies operating locally.\n\nThe Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development (CUPCD) is based in a university context as part of the Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University. The Mandel School strongly emphasizes direct work with local citywide and community institutions to address the opportunities and problems of poor neighborhoods. The CUPCD mission is \"to create, communicate, and apply knowledge of value to a broad range of audiences and constituents concerned with the ultimate goal of reducing urban poverty and its consequences. . . . The Center serves as a pathway between the university, and the community, linking social science to social change.\"\n\nCUPCD Director Claudia Coulton began assembling neighborhood-level data soon after the Center was founded. In 1990, the Center issued a full report on trends in Cleveland's neighborhoods over the preceding two decades-a report used as the primary basis for the formation of the [ Arthur Naparstek | Cleveland Foundation Commission on Poverty] which was the foundation for \"The Cleveland Community-Building Initiative\" report (c.f. History of Cleveland). That study became the foundation for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Urban Revitalization Demonstration Act of 1993, known as HOPE VI. As this and other reports were more widely disseminated, the Center began to receive more requests for data assistance. In response to this demand, the staff developed the original CAN DO system.\n\nIn its current form, NEO CANDO contains neighborhood-level information from the 1990 census and from a variety of administrative data files (information, for the most part, for every year since 1980). Administrative data series go back to 1979 and are now updated annually. System data are made available through a user-friendly, menu-driven, online database network. The data can be accessed via the Internet through the Center's website at http://neocando.case.edu. It can also be mapped and downloaded for a user's additional analysis. Community groups can thus access and use the database directly. Center staff provide training and technical assistance to help them use it effectively in planning and program development.\n\n"}
{"id": "25236077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25236077", "title": "One Art World", "text": "One Art World\n\nOne Art World is an online service provider for the international art market with headquarters in New York City. Prior to July 2009, One Art World was known as chelseaartgalleries.com.\n\nOne Art World is an information platform for the international fine art market. It provides services allowing its users to search and view artist, gallery and exhibition profiles, and to attain auction price data, giving them an effective overview of the art market and enabling them to contact art galleries. The platform caters specifically to art dealers, art professionals, art students and collectors. The services are free to users, while galleries pay a fee to list their exhibitions and inventory.\n\nThe primary service of this business is to give users access to up-to-date art market information by providing:\n\nOne Art World maintains its own proprietary databases of the information underlying the above services. The exhibition and inventory databases are maintained by the galleries using self-service interfaces (The Exhibition Manager and The Inventory Manager respectively).\n\nThough this business lists artworks for sale, it does not engage in art dealing, but merely serves as a conduit between the art collector and the art dealer.\n\nchelseaartgalleries.com was founded in 2006. The company’s initial service was a gallery database and exhibition calendar for the Chelsea neighborhood in New York City. In November 2006, chelseaartgalleries.com begun to publish auction results from the contemporary art auctions held by the three main auction houses: Sotheby's, Christie's, and Phillips de Pury & Company.\n\nIn July 2009, chelseaartgalleries.com changed name to One Art World and expanded to include worldwide coverage of galleries and artists.\n\nOne Art World’s clients include private collectors, galleries, appraisers, museums, auctioneers, art educators, artists, and art students.\n\nOne Art World is supporting not-for-profit (charity) organizations as a media or website sponsor. Organizations included in this program in 2009 include:\n\n"}
{"id": "23550476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23550476", "title": "Paracuellos de Jarama", "text": "Paracuellos de Jarama\n\nParacuellos del Jarama is a small town and municipality in the Community of Madrid, Spain. It is located northeast from Madrid and very close to Madrid-Barajas Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "55198896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55198896", "title": "Parapenaeopsis sculptilis", "text": "Parapenaeopsis sculptilis\n\nParapenaeopsis sculptilis, commonly known as the Rainbow Shrimp, is a marine crustacean that is widely reared for food.\n\nIts natural distribution is the Indo-West Pacific.\n\n"}
{"id": "196117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196117", "title": "Prenuptial agreement", "text": "Prenuptial agreement\n\nA prenuptial agreement, antenuptial agreement, or premarital agreement, commonly abbreviated as prenup, is a contract entered into prior to marriage, civil union, or any agreement prior to the main agreement by the people intending to marry or contract with each other. The content of a prenuptial agreement can vary widely, but commonly includes provisions for division of property and spousal support in the event of divorce or breakup of marriage. They may also include terms for the forfeiture of assets as a result of divorce on the grounds of adultery; further conditions of guardianship may be included as well. It should not be confused with the historic marriage settlement which was concerned not primarily with the effects of divorce but with the establishment and maintenance of dynastic families.\n\nIn some countries, including Belgium and the Netherlands, the prenuptial agreement not only provides for the event of a divorce, but also to protect some property during the marriage, for instance in case of a bankruptcy. Many countries, including Canada, France, Italy, and Germany, have matrimonial regimes, in addition to, or some cases, in lieu of prenuptial agreements.\n\nPostnuptial agreements are similar to prenuptial agreements, except that they are entered into after a couple is married. Historically (and sometimes still today) prenuptial agreements were called marriage contracts. Marriage itself is often viewed as a contract.\n\nLaws vary between both states and countries in both how to draft them and in whether they will enforce such agreements.\n\nIn South Africa, a civil marriage or civil union is, by default, a marriage in community of property. In order to marry out of community of property, the parties must sign an antenuptial contract in the presence of a notary public prior to their marriage and the contract must be registered in the Deeds Office within three months from the date of signature of the contract.\n\nWhen marrying out of community, the parties have a choice to marry \"with application of the accrual system\" or without application of the accrual system.\n\nIn the event that the parties marry without accrual, the spouses’ respective estates would always remain separate and neither party will have any proprietary claim against the other by virtue of the marriage.\n\nIf the parties marry with application of the accrual, their respective estates would remain separate during the subsistence of the marriage. Upon dissolution of the marriage, whether by death or divorce, the spouse with the lesser accrual would have a claim against the spouse with the larger accrual for half the difference between their accrual values.\n\nIn India, prenuptial agreements are very rare and do not have any governing laws. However, with rising divorce rates people are showing increasing interest in them. Some lawyers are of the opinion that prenups don't have legal sanctity in India. However, some form of contract is signed in some cases, usually among affluent citizens. But, the agreements need to be reasonable and not violate pre-existing laws like the Hindu Marriage Act. Indian courts allow a memorandum of settlement to be signed during divorces. But, no court has yet been asked to enforce a prenup.\n\nThese agreements may come under the Indian Contract Act 1872. The Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act states that agreements are to be considered contracts if they are made by the free consent of the parties. However, the Section 23 of the same act states that a contract may be void if they are immoral or against public policy.\n\nGoa is the only Indian state where a prenuptial is legally enforceable, as it follows the Portuguese Civil Code, 1867. A prenuptial agreement may be signed between the two parties at the time of marriage, stating the regime of ownership. If a prenuptial has not been signed, then the marital property is simply divided equally between the husband and wife.\n\nThe prenuptial agreement in Thailand sign on the basis of mutual consent of the man and woman, which want to get married. Under Thai law, a prenuptial agreement is recognized by the Commercial and Civil Code of Thailand. A valid and enforceable Thai prenuptial agreement requires by Law where: \nThese conditions are found at clause 1466 of the Commercial and Civil Code of Thailand.<br>\nIn accordance with the laws on Thai marriage, the prenuptial agreement mainly relates to assets and financial implications of marriage and establishes conditions of ownership and management of personal and concrete joint property and potential division of marital assets, if the marriage will be dissolved. The prenuptial agreement also includes a list of each side's personal assets at the time of the marriage and guarantees, that debts and property before the marriage remain in possession of the initial owner or debtor.<br>\n<br>\nPersonal property includes:\nJoint property includes:\n\nPrenuptial agreements have long been recognized as valid in several European countries, such as France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. While in some of these countries there are limits on what restrictions the courts will see as enforceable or valid (e.g. Germany after 2001, where appeals courts have indicated this), a written and properly initiated contract, freely agreed upon, cannot be challenged by, for instance, invoking the circumstances under which the marriage broke down or the conduct of either part. In France and Belgium (as in Quebec, which has the same judicial tradition) prenuptial agreements must be set up in the presence of a notary.\n\nIn many of the countries mentioned, prenuptials may also protect the non-shared property and money from being pulled into a bankruptcy and can serve to support lawsuits and settlements during the marriage (for instance if one part has sold or wrongfully mortgaged a piece of property that had been set aside by his/her partner).\n\nIn accordance with provisions of Section 10 of the Family Code of Ukraine, marriage relationships, rights and duties of spouses can be regulated by a Marriage contract as well if spouses wish to settle their property relations in other manner then it is provided by the Family Code of Ukraine.\n\nMarriage (prenuptial) contract can be concluded by a woman and a man, who applied for registration of their marriage as well as by spouses. Underaged person, who wants to conclude a marriage contract before registration of the marriage, is to have a signed consent of his/her parent or custodian certified by a notary.\n\nNumerous provisions of this section of the Family Code of Ukraine provide quite extensive requirements as regarding the form and contents of the marriage contract and the procedural issues of making the same are regulated by appropriate Instruction of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine as regarding the procedure of notarization of marriage contracts as well as far as notarization is required.\n\nImperative requirements as regarding content of the marriage contract are provided by clause 93 of the Family Code of Ukraine, which states that the marriage contract governs property relations between spouses, determines their property rights and duties. Marriage contract can also determine property rights and duties of spouses as parents, but with certain limitations. Personal relations of spouses cannot be regulated by the marriage contract, as well as personal relations between spouses and their children. This rule is also provided by clause 93 of the Family Code of Ukraine. Marriage contract, which reduce rights of children and put one of spouses on a poor material state, are not permitted by the above imperative regulation. Within the frameworks of the marriage contract none of spouses can acquire any immovable property or other property, which requires the state registration.\n\nPrenuptial agreements historically had not been considered legally enforceable in England and Wales due to a reluctance on the part of the judiciary for public policy reasons. The 2010 Supreme Court test case of Radmacher v Granatino, overturned the previous legal framework on them to recognise changing societal and judicial views on the personal autonomy of married partners. Pre-nuptial agreements will now be enforced by the courts as part of their discretion in financial settlement cases under section 25 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 so long as the three stage Radmacher test is met and it is considered fair to do so, keeping in mind the interests of any child of the family. Radmacher states that the courts will give effect to a nuptial agreement that is freely entered into by each party with a full appreciation of its implications unless, in the circumstances prevailing, it would not be fair to hold the parties to their agreement. The case provided substantial amounts of guidance relevant to all nuptial agreement cases that have occurred since 2010.\n\nThe Law Commission's 2014 report on Matrimonial Property generally accepted the decision in Radmacher and recommended the creation of a 'qualifying nuptial agreement' regime by Parliament which would create a completely binding pre-nuptial agreement so long as certain requirements were met. The Commission's recommendations have yet to be implemented.\n\nPrenuptial agreements in Canada are governed by provincial legislation. Each province and territory in Canada recognizes prenuptial agreements. For instance, in Ontario prenuptial agreements are called marriage contracts and they are recognized by section 52 of the Family Law Act.\n\nCurrently, prenuptial agreements are recognized, although they may not always be enforced. Both parties should have lawyers represent them to ensure that the agreement is enforceable and can work with agreement between both parties. In some cases, the parties retain a private judge to be present during the signing, to be sure that neither party has been coerced into the agreement. Some attorneys recommend videotaping the signing, although this is optional. Some states such as California require that the parties be represented by counsel if spousal support (alimony) is limited by the agreement. Consequently, prenuptial agreements may become void if there is evidence that they are signed under duress.\n\nPrenuptial agreements are, at best, a partial solution to obviating some of the risks of marital property disputes in times of divorce. They protect minimal assets and are not the final word. Nevertheless, they can be very powerful and limit parties' property rights and alimony. It may be impossible to set aside a properly drafted and executed prenup. A prenup can dictate not only what happens if the parties divorce, but also what happens when they die. They can act as a contract to make a will and/or eliminate all your rights to property, probate homestead, probate allowance, right to take as a predetermined heir, and the right to act as an executor and administrator of your spouse's estate.\n\nA prenuptial agreement is only valid if it is completed prior to marriage. After a couple is married, they may draw up a post-nuptial agreement. There are several ways that a prenuptial agreement can be attacked in court. These include lack of voluntariness, unconscionability, and a failure to disclose assets.\n\nIn the United States, prenuptial agreements are recognized in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. Likewise, in most jurisdictions, five elements are required for a valid prenuptial agreement:\n\n\nPrenuptial agreements in all U.S. states are not allowed to regulate issues relating to the children of the marriage, in particular, custody and access issues. The reason behind this is that matters involving children must be decided in the children's best interests. However, this is controversial: some people believe that as custody battles are often the worst part of a divorce, couples should be able to settle this in advance.\n\nCourts will not enforce requirements that one person will do the dishes or that the children will be raised in a certain religion. In recent years, some couples have included social media provisions in their prenuptial agreements, setting forth rules as to what is permissible to be posted on social media networks during the marriage, as well as in the event the marriage is dissolved.\n\nA sunset provision may be inserted into a prenuptial agreement, specifying that after a certain amount of time, the agreement will expire. In Maine, for prenuptial agreements executed before October 1, 1993, unless the parties renew the agreement, it automatically lapses after the birth of a child. In other states, a certain number of years of marriage will cause a prenuptial agreement to lapse. In states that have adopted the UPAA (Uniform Premarital Agreement Act), no sunset provision is provided by statute, but one could be privately contracted for. Note that states have different versions of the UPAA.\n\nUnlike all other contract law, consideration is not required, although a minority of courts point to the marriage itself as the consideration. Through a prenup, a spouse can completely waive rights to property, alimony or inheritance as well as the elective share and get nothing in return. Choice of law provisions are critical in prenups. Parties to the agreement can elect to have the law of the state they are married in govern both the interpretation of the agreement and how property is divided at the time of divorce. In the absence of a choice of law clause it is the law of the place the parties divorce, not the law of the state they were married that decides property and support issues.\n\nIn drafting an agreement, it is important to recognize that there are two types of state laws that govern divorceequitable distribution, practiced by 41 states, and community property, practiced in some variation by 9 states. An agreement written in a community property state may not be designed to govern what occurs in an equitable distribution state and vice versa. It may be necessary to retain attorneys in both states to cover the possible eventuality that the parties may live in a state other than the state they were married. Often people have more than one home in different states or they move a lot because of their work so it is important to take that into account in the drafting process.\n\nWith respect to financial issues ancillary to divorce, prenuptial agreements are routinely upheld and enforced by courts in virtually all states. There are circumstances in which courts have refused to enforce certain portions/provisions of such agreements. For example, in an April, 2007 decision by the Appellate Division in New Jersey, the court refused to enforce a provision of a prenuptial agreement relating to the wife's waiver of her interest in the husband's savings plan. The New Jersey court held that when the parties executed their prenuptial agreement, it was not foreseeable that the husband would later increase his contributions toward the savings plan.\n\nIn California, one case (\"Hall v. Hall\", 222 Cal. App. 3d 578 (1990)) enforced an oral prenuptial agreement in the probate of the estate of one of the parties because the surviving spouse had substantially changed her position in reliance on the oral agreement. Marriage of Benson (2005) 36Cal.4th 1096 distinguishes Hall. Parties can waive disclosure beyond that which is provided, and there is no requirement of notarization, but it is good practice. There are special requirements if parties sign the agreement without attorney, and the parties must have independent counsel if they limit spousal support (also known as alimony or spousal maintenance in other states). Parties must wait seven days after the premarital agreement is first presented for review before they sign it, but there is no requirement that this be done a certain number of days prior to the marriage. Prenups often take months to negotiate so they should not be left until the last minute (as people often do). If the prenup calls for the payment of a lump sum at the time of divorce, it may be deemed to promote divorce. This concept has come under attack and a lawyer should be consulted to make sure the prenup does not violate this provision.\n\nIn California, through a prenuptial agreement a couple may waive their rights to share property (community property). The agreement can limit spousal support (although a court at the divorce can set this aside if it deems that the limitation is unconscionable). The agreement can act as a contract to make a will requiring one spouse to provide for the other at death. It can also limit probate rights at death, such as the right to a probate allowance, the right to act an executor, the right to take as a predetermined heir, and so forth. In California, Registered Domestic Partners may also enter into a prenup. Postmarital agreements are treated very differently in California law. Spouses have a fiduciary duty to one another so premarital agreements come under a special category of agreements. There is a presumption that the postmarital agreement was obtained by undue influence if one party gains an advantage. Disclosure cannot be waived in the context of a postmarital agreement.\n\nPrenuptial agreements are recognised in Australia by the Family Law Act 1975 (Commonwealth).\n\nPremarital mediation is an alternative way of creating a prenuptial agreement. In this process, a mediator facilitates an open discussion between the couple about all kinds of marital issues, like expectations about working after children are born and saving and spending styles as well as the traditional premarital discussions about property division and spousal support if the marriage is terminated. The engaged couple makes all of the decisions about what would happen in the event of a separation or divorce with the assistance of the mediator. They then draft either a deal memo or a premarital agreement and have it reviewed by their respective attorneys. An agreement developed via mediation is typically less expensive because fewer hours are spent with attorneys because the couple has made all of the decisions together, rather than one side vs. the other.\n\nPrenuptial agreements are a matter of civil law, so Catholic canon law does not rule them out in principle (for example, to determine how property would be divided among the children of a prior marriage upon the death of one spouse).\n\nIn practice, prenuptials may run afoul of Church law in a number of ways. For example, they cannot subject a marriage to a condition concerning the future (such as an agreement about the dividing of assets in case of divorce). The Code of Canon Law provides: \"A marriage subject to a condition about the future cannot be contracted validly\". (CIC 1102)\n\n\"The Canon Law: Letter and Spirit\", a commentary on canon law, explains that condition may be defined as \"a stipulation by which an agreement is made contingent upon the verification or fulfillment of some circumstance or event that is not yet certain\". It goes on to state that \"any condition concerning the future attached to matrimonial consent renders marriage invalid\". For example, a marriage would be invalid if the parties stipulated that they must have children or they have the right to divorce and remarry someone else.\n\nIn Judaism, the \"ketubah\", a prenuptial contract, has long been established as an integral part of the Jewish marriage, and is signed and read aloud at the marriage ceremony. It contains the husband's requirement to support his wife by providing her with food, clothing and sex, as well as providing for the wife's support in the case of divorce or the husband's death. However, under this passage, a woman is free to leave if her husband doesn't provide for her.\n\nIn 2004, the High Court of South Africa upheld a cherem against a Johannesburg businessman because he refused to pay his former wife alimony as ordered by The Johannesburg Beth Din.\n\nRecently, a movement supporting an additional prenuptial agreement has emerged in some Modern Orthodox circles. This is in response to a growing number of cases in which the husband refuses to grant \"gett\", a religious divorce. In such matters, the local authorities are unable to intervene, both out of concerns regarding separation of church and state and certain \"halakhic\" problems that would arise. This situation leaves the wife in a state of \"aginut\", in which she is unable to remarry. To remedy this situation, the movement promotes a prenuptial agreement in which the couple agrees to conduct their divorce, should it occur, in a rabbinical court.\n\nIn Islam, there is also marriage contract, known traditionally as Aqd qeran, aqd nekah or aqd zawaj, is found in most Arab and Islamic countries. However, in Egypt, Syria, Palestine, Jordan and Lebanon (only those 5 countries) it is known to many people as Katb el-Kitab. Most countries, however, do not call it Katb el-Kitab. It has long been established as an integral part of the Islamic marriage, and is signed at the marriage ceremony. Similar to Judaism, it outlines the rights and responsibilities of the groom and bride or other parties involved in the marriage proceedings.But this is different than Prenuptial agreement as the spouses can inherit each other by only signing the marriage contract without needing any thing else.\n"}
{"id": "49163098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49163098", "title": "Queensland Post Office Directory", "text": "Queensland Post Office Directory\n\nThe Queensland Post Office Directory was a series of publications listing people and businesses in Queensland, Australia.\n\nThese publications were produced from 1868 to 1949 on an annual basis to enable people in Queensland to be contacted. They were produced initially by the Queensland Post Office but later they were outsourced to a commercial publisher. They were discontinued because people preferred to use telephone directories once telephones became widely used. Like telephone directories, the Queensland Post Office directories usually had two main sections, listings of names (like the White Pages) and listings of businesses organised by category allowing larger entries for advertising (like the Yellow Pages). Listing in these directories was not free or compulsory, but the benefits of being able to be contacted meant most businesses and most heads of households (except the poorest) are listed.\n"}
{"id": "16567286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567286", "title": "Rotulus", "text": "Rotulus\n\nA rotulus (plural: \"rotuli\") is a kind of roll consisting of a long and narrow strip of writing material, historically papyrus or parchment, that is wound around a wooden axle or rod and is written on its interior face or side such that it is unwound vertically so that the writing runs parallel to the rod, unlike the other kind of roll, namely the \"scroll\", whose writing runs perpendicular to the rod in multiple columns.\n\n\"Rotuli\" were historically used for:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23156552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23156552", "title": "Stagecoach Inn (Vermont)", "text": "Stagecoach Inn (Vermont)\n\nThe Stagecoach Inn is an exhibit building located at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont.\n\nHezekiah Barnes built Stagecoach Inn in Charlotte, Vermont in 1783. A former captain in the United States Militia, Barnes had moved with his family to Charlotte in 1780, and established the inn and a trading post on opposite sides of the main stage route from Montreal to southern New England. \n\nBuilt on a Georgian plan (see Georgian architecture), the Stagecoach Inn, which town residents referred to as the Tavern Stand, possesses regularly spaced windows and two central, side-lit doors that are distinctive elements of the vernacular Federal style popular in the eighteenth century.\n\nWhen the Shelburne Museum dismantled and reassembled Stagecoach Inn on the grounds in 1949, it needed restoration. Museum contractors removed the dividing walls in the second-story ballroom, returning it to its former dimensions; they rebuilt ten fireplaces, two brick ovens, and two ham-smoking chambers; applied paneling and plaster finishes that approximated those found in New England in the late 18th century; and fashioned replacement window casings and chair rails with antique carpenter’s planes. Finally, they reconstructed the broad porch that had originally wrapped around the building’s exterior to re-create the Inn’s early appearance.\n\nShelburne Museum’s collection of over 175 trade signs represent dozens of different trades using a variety of forms, such as oversized locksmith’s keys, optometrist’s eyeglasses and skate-maker’s skates, as well as an enormous cobbler’s boot, a haberdasher’s hat, a clockmaker’s watch, and an innkeeper’s pineapple. Samuel Anderson Robb's firm produced several of the Museum’s finest figures including a caricature of Robb in his National Guard uniform. Inspired by the popular Civil War-era song “Captain Jinks of the Horse Marines,” Thomas White, Robb’s partner of many years, created the caricature as a tobacconist figure. \n\nDuring the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, trade signs advertised the variety of goods and services that craftspeople, merchants, and inn and tavern keepers offered. Many early craftspeople promoted their wares with over-sized, three-dimensional metal or wooden representations of the objects they made or repaired. A gunsmith, for example, might hang a large gun outside his shop while a dentist might exhibit a tooth. Inn and tavern keepers tended to favor flat, wooden signs that hung at a right angle to the building. These two-dimensional advertisements frequently combined a representational painting with the proprietor’s name and each side often displayed a different design. \n\nAlthough a few craftsmen made their own signs, many turned to professional carvers and sign painters. During the nineteenth century most major cities supported dozens of woodcarvers and sign painters. In 1881, Samuel Robb of New York advertised his firm’s services thus: “Manufacturing of show figures and lettered signs a specialty. Tobacconist signs in great variety, on hand and made to any design. Ship and steamboat carvings, eagles, scroll heads, block letters, shoe, dentist, and druggist signs, etc.” \n\nShelburne Museum’s collection of 130 weathervanes includes finely crafted vanes as well as commercially produced examples. The tradition of surmounting buildings with weathervanes extends to antiquity when, as early as 100 BCE, a vane crowned the Athenian Tower of the Winds. Throughout the Medieval Period, European churches displayed roosters, symbols of vigilance, from their bell towers. By the seventeenth century, English settlers had brought the tradition to America. In the United States, weathervanes first decorated public buildings but soon appeared across the countryside. Farmers would mount a representation of a cow, pig, or rooster on top of their barns to symbolize their trade while horse breeders might cap their stables with a finely crafted racehorse. \n\nEarly weathervanes were often handmade and the Museum’s wooden Mermaid, carved by Warren Gould Roby of Wayland, Massachusetts in about 1850, is the finest example of such hand-carved figures. Other handcrafted weathervanes include a Native American archer, a streamlined goose in flight, and a wooden rooster that originally stood on a barn in Bedford, Massachusetts.\n\nIn the second half of the nineteenth century manufacturers began to sell commercially produced, copper weathervanes. Makers of these vanes would hammer copper sheeting into cast-iron molds copied from carved-wood patterns. Using a mold enabled manufacturers to reproduce each design many times. Shelburne’s collection includes finished copper vanes, cast-iron molds, and a unique wooden pattern for a Lady Liberty weathervane. Many of the commercial weathervanes depict common barnyard animals, including roosters, horses, pigs, and cows. Others represent less familiar forms such as a centaur, a pouter pigeon, and an anvil. One of the largest known commercial weathervanes is a highly detailed fire-pumper pulled by a pair of horses, which originally topped a firehouse in Manchester, New Hampshire.\n\nWhirligigs, which are closely related to weathervanes, most commonly represent a standing figure with paddled arms that flail in the wind. Some clever craftspeople built more complex whirligigs powered by a wind-catching wheel. One of Shelburne’s finest represents a woman seated at a spinning wheel; doubling as a trade-sign, when the wind turned the spinning wheel, the woman’s foot would move up and down on the treadle as if she were spinning yarn.\n\nA stagecoach is a type of four-wheeled coach used for both passengers and goods. They were strongly sprung and drawn by four horses. Stagecoaches were widely used before the introduction of railway transport and made regular trips between stages or stations, which were places of rest provided for stagecoach travelers. Shelburne Museum has examples of stagecoaches in their coach and wagon collection. See Horseshoe Barn and Annex for more information on this collection.\n\nStagecoach Inns that served the traveling coach passengers. They stabled the teams of stagecoach horses, provided overnight loding, and served food and drink for weary travelers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51129741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51129741", "title": "Stefan Stoev", "text": "Stefan Stoev\n\nStefan Stoev (born 1977 in Sofia) is an Austrian entrepreneur, philanthropist and supporter of the arts.\n\nStoev has a PhD Degree in Information Technology and Economics, a master's degree in International Finance and Economics, a bachelor's degree in International Economic Affairs, and a Professional Degree in Foreign Affairs and Linguistics.\n\nStoev served 2004/2005 as Austrian \"Gedenkdienst\" representative at the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. During this time he was engaged in scientific research at the Center for Advanced and Holocaust Studies, maintained contact to Holocaust Survivors and wrote on the book \"Time Bridge/Zeitbrücke\". Upon his return in Austria he founded the cultural organization IDEA Society (Society for International Development and Enhancement of Arts). Stoev engaged in Cultural and Art Diplomacy, and promotes the intercultural dialogue by supporting Austrian and international artists worldwide. In 2008 he initiated the international Art project Pangaea in support of UNICEF. The outcome of this project was the creation of the art collection for World Peace, which since then is on travel exhibitions on all continents. Stoev established cooperations with peace museums and international topic related organizations. Followed by annual events as artistic tribute to the International Day of Peace and numerous lectures from Stoev on conferences at the United Nations and at the European Parliament. In 2011 Stoev was nominated as Ambassador for Peace from the Universal Peace Federation. For his contribution to the promotion of arts and culture Stoev was honored in 2012 with the award of the Bulgarian Ministry of Culture. Among others Stoev realized the EU funded project for Harmonization of Culture and Arts between Austria and Turkey. Also in 2012 he participated as juror at the International Art for Peace Contest for Young People from the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs and the Harmony for Peace Foundation. In the same year Stoev organized in Vienna an exhibition for the sculptress and diplomat Gabriela von Habsburg on Art Diplomacy between the Danube and the Black Sea. In cooperation with the Academic Council of the United Nations System (ACUNS) in Vienna, the Universal Peace Federation (UPF) and the Austro-Brazilian NGO ABRASA, Stoev organized with the IDEA Society at the Vienna International Centre (VIC) the conference on \"Culture as a Basic Element for Sustainable Development and Human Rights\". Stoev helped for the successful theatre premiere of William Shakespeare's of the American Drama Group in Vienna and is since then regular supporter of the annual international event at the Stadtpalais Liechtenstein.\n\nIn 2013 Stoev organized an international exhibition on Humanity, with art works of and Pangaea, moderated by Danielle Spera. Stoev applied on behalf of the IDEA Society the NGO Special Consultative Status with the ECOSOC of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), which was granted in 2014 upon the decision of the Committee on NGOs in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "344293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344293", "title": "Ted DiBiase", "text": "Ted DiBiase\n\nTheodore Marvin DiBiase Sr. (born January 18, 1954) is an American former professional wrestler, manager, ordained minister and color commentator. He is signed with WWE working in their Legends program. DiBiase achieved championship success in a number of wrestling promotions, holding thirty titles during his professional wrestling career. He is best recalled by mainstream audiences for his time in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), where he wrestled as \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase. He is regarded by many as the greatest villain in pro wrestling history. IGN called DiBiase \"one of the most gifted technical wrestlers to ever grace the squared-circle\".\n\nAmong other accolades in the WWF, DiBiase was the first North American Heavyweight Champion, a three-time Tag Team Champion (with Irwin R. Schyster) and the 1988 King of the Ring. DiBiase also created his own championship, the Million Dollar Championship. He held the WWF World Heavyweight Championship belt in 1988 after purchasing it from André the Giant, but this period is not recognized by WWE as an official title reign. Nonetheless, DiBiase frequently headlined WWF cards, including WrestleMania IV and the first ever SummerSlam in 1988.\n\nDiBiase headlined the 2010 WWE Hall of Fame ceremony, being inducted by his sons, Ted Jr. and Brett.\n\nDiBiase was born in Miami, Florida. He is the biological son of wrestler Helen Nevins and Ted Wills, an entertainer and singer. He is the adopted son of wrestler \"Iron\" Mike DiBiase, who was Italian-American. DiBiase is of mostly German and English ancestry. His adoptive father died of a heart attack in the ring when DiBiase was 15. Seven-time NWA World champion Harley Race rushed to the ring and performed CPR, but was unable to save Iron Mike's life. In response, his mother suffered from depression and alcoholism, so DiBiase was moved to Willcox, Arizona to live with his grandparents. He attended Creighton Preparatory high school and attended West Texas State University on a football scholarship. While there he became a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. However, due to an injury in his senior year, he later dropped out of college to begin a career in professional wrestling.\n\nTed DiBiase was trained by Dory Funk, Jr. and Terry Funk. He made his professional wrestling debut as a referee in June 1974 in the Amarillo territory owned by the Funks. He then went to the Mid-South territory of Bill Watts being promoted as the son of Iron Mike in 1975 where he wrestled for four years. His first match was a loss against Danny Hodge. By February 1978, DiBiase would unseat Dick Slater to become Missouri State champion only to lose to Dick Murdoch after a few weeks on television.\n\nDiBiase had a short stint with Vince McMahon, Sr.'s World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in 1979, that was in the transition from being called the World Wide Wrestling Federation. He was awarded the short-lived North American Championship, becoming the title's first champion. On June 19, 1979, he lost the North American Championship to Pat Patterson, who unified the title with the fictional \"South American Championship\" to become the first ever Intercontinental Champion.\n\nHe was Hulk Hogan's opponent in Hogan's first Madison Square Garden match.\n\nDiBiase also spent time in the Georgia area where he had an early face run. One legendary angle had DiBiase enduring four piledrivers (one on the concrete floor and three in the ring) administered in the WTBS studio arena by The Fabulous Freebirds before his tag team partner, Tommy \"Wildfire\" Rich, threw in the towel (the angle of DiBiase being badly injured was so real the TBS studio audience could be seen crying). Rich and DiBiase later feuded, leading to a loser leaves town match which DiBiase won, but instead of Rich leaving the area, he donned a mask calling himself \"Mister R.\" The feud culminated in a match between Mister R and DiBiase, Rich appeared from backstage and distracted DiBiase. Mister R then rolled up DiBiase to get the win and unmasked as Brad Armstrong. Both DiBiase and Rich left the territory shortly thereafter.\n\nIn the early to mid-1980s, DiBiase participated in angles in various territories feuding with the likes of Ric Flair best known from this point in his Mid South return with the likes of Bob Roop, Paul Orndorff, Dick Murdoch, The Fabulous Freebirds and One Man Gang. DiBiase turned heel against the Junkyard Dog and formed a group called The Rat Pack with Jim Duggan and Matt Borne, ran Mid-south for months. Aligning with Skandor Akbar, Dibiase caused a riff with the group, namely Duggan. The two would feud until DiBiase lost a loser leave town match. He also held various championships and made frequent trips to All Japan Pro Wrestling until his eventual departure from Mid-South Wrestling (which by this point was now the UWF). Typically, his matches ended with the use of a \"loaded\" black glove, which he pulled from his tights to \"knock out\" his opponent when the referee was not looking.\n\nWhile locked in talks with the National Wrestling Alliance in 1987 after the UWF was acquired by Jim Crockett, DiBiase received an offer from the WWF. DiBiase was eventually convinced by WWF to sign up despite the fact that he would not be told his gimmick until after he agreed, under the promise that it was something that would receive a serious push. WWF official Pat Patterson informed DiBiase that if owner Vince McMahon were to go out to wrestle, it would be the gimmick that he would give himself.\n\nDiBiase entered All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) in 1983. He won the NWA United National Championship on October 14, 1983 in a tournament defeating Jerry Lawler by forfeit. Two months later on January 28, 1984, DiBiase lost the title to Michael Hayes. DiBiase's mother Helen Hild died two months later in March 4, 1984.\n\nIn August 1985, DiBiase formed a tag team with fellow gaijin: Stan Hansen and the two became the PWF Tag Team Champions when Hansen chose DiBiase to replace Bruiser Brody who left for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW). Later that year, DiBiase and Hansen entered the 1985 World's Strongest Tag Determination League and would emerge victorious finishing in first place with 7 points.\n\nOn July 3, 1987, DiBiase and Hansen would lose the PWF Tag Team Championship to Jumbo Tsuruta and Tiger Mask, ending their two-year reign as champions. Eight days later on July 11, DiBiase and Hansen regain the titles for a second time, but would be stripped of the titles shortly after due to DiBiase leaving AJPW for the WWF.\n\nIn September 1993, DiBiase returned to AJPW and reformed his team with Hansen. The two immediately saw success as they defeated The Holy Demon Army on September 3, 1993 for the World Tag Team Championship. Two months later on November 13, 1993, DiBiase and Hansen would be stripped of the titles so they could be put on the line for the 1993 World's Strongest Tag Determination League. DiBiase would enter the tournament, but would only wrestle one match on November 14 where he and Hansen defeated Tracey Smothers and Richard Slinger before he suffered neck and back injuries which forced him out of the tournament (Giant Baba ended up replacing him).\n\nDiBiase made his return to the WWF as a babyface on May 15, 1987 at a house show in Houston, Texas. He came out to the ring to announce to those in attendance that it was only fitting that he was now competing in the WWF. Moments later The One Man Gang and Slick came to the ring for Gang's scheduled match. The referee had to force DiBiase to leave before there was a confrontation. At the next house show on June 7, DiBiase would have his first match and lose to The One Man Gang. He went on to lose two additional house show confrontations to The Gang. Dibiase would tag-team with Sam Houston on June 26 against The One Man Gang and Ron Bass (Houston had run in to assist Dibiase against The Gang at one of the earlier house show matches); towards the end of the match, DiBiase (kayfabe) turned on and attacked Houston after Houston missed a dropkick on Bass, leaving him to get double-teamed and pinned. His actions during the match served to effectively turn Dibiase heel, right before the onscreen debut of his new gimmick.\n\nOn a June 27 episode of \"WWF Superstars\", DiBiase had his first vignette. He would now be known as \"The Million Dollar Man\", a millionaire who wore a gold-studded, dollar-sign-covered suit and, in time, a custom-made, diamond-encrusted and self-awarded \"Million Dollar Championship\" belt. The Million Dollar Man character was based on the type of wrestler that Vince McMahon would want to be. He was billed as having a spring residence in Palm Beach, Florida, a summer residence in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, an autumn residence in Bel Air, California, and a winter residence in the Netherlands Antilles.\n\nDiBiase had a bodyguard by the name of Virgil, who was also by his side during his matches and vignettes. The idea for the name Virgil was based on then-NWA booker Dusty Rhodes, whose real name is Virgil Runnels, though former writer and producer Bruce Prichard disputes this. The name of DiBiase's finishing move, the Million Dollar Dream (in which someone is put to sleep), was also supposedly meant to be an insult to Dusty Rhodes, who was named the American Dream. Virgil was often seen performing humiliating tasks, such as rubbing DiBiase's feet. DiBiase claimed \"Everybody has a price\" demonstrating his \"power\" through a series of vignettes in which he did things such as bribe the manager of a local swimming pool to close for the day so he could have the pool to himself, or when the honeymoon suite in a hotel was already booked, he bribed the desk clerk to have the couple already in there thrown out. Other skits featured DiBiase traveling in limousines, giving $100 tips to waiters, and using $100 bills in convenience stores for small purchases like chewing gum. In reality, DiBiase's road travel was deliberately booked for first-class airplane flights and five-star hotel accommodations, and he was given a stipend of petty cash from the WWF Offices so that he could \"throw money around\" in public (i.e. pick up tabs and \"overtip\", buy drinks for entire bars, actually pay for small items with a $100 bill, etc.) in order to make the character seem more real. Other times, DiBiase invited fans (including a young Rob Van Dam and a then unknown Linda McMahon) to perform humiliating acts (such as kissing his feet) for money. During one skit, he invited a young boy onto a stage and told him if he bounced a ball 15 times in succession, DiBiase would pay him $500. After the 14th bounce, DiBiase kicked the ball away, sending the boy home without pay; however, according to his autobiography, everybody who wasn't paid on-camera \"was\" paid off-camera. He frequently stuffed a $100 bill into the mouth of a wrestler on whom he had used the Million Dollar Dream move. Virgil, however, would more often than not retrieve the discarded bill from the wrestler's mouth.\n\nHis first big in-ring angle came in late 1987 on an episode of \"Superstars of Wrestling\", where he announced his plan to buy the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from Hulk Hogan, as Hogan refused and said that DiBiase would have to defeat him in the ring for the championship belt. Hogan got the upper hand in a series of matches, and a frustrated DiBiase approached André the Giant to win the title for him, which did happen on the February 5, 1988 edition of \"The Main Event\" (which aired live on NBC), where André defeated Hogan under questionable circumstances for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship. This was the match of the great \"who is the true Dave Hebner\" debacle . Who the crowd and viewers at home thought was the \"real\" Dave Hebner (it was actually his real life twin brother Earl, whom many now mistake as being the original Hebner) counted the match finishing pin for André despite the fact that Hogan's shoulder was up at the count of one. Afterwards the real Dave Hebner came running into the ring to dispute the ruling his \"evil twin\" had made awarding the WWF world championship to Andre the Giant ; André then announced he was surrendering the championship belt and handed it to DiBiase. In the following days, DiBiase was in fact billed as the WWF World Heavyweight Champion in three house shows, defending the title one time against Bam Bam Bigelow. \n\nHowever, WWF later refused to acknowledge DiBiase as the champion (since titles could not be handed to someone else) and declared the title vacant (as the title could not be given back to Hogan due to the match being official, and Andre's handing off the championship belt to DiBiase was considered a surrender of the title). André's world title win was always recognized though, and is still considered the shortest world title reign in WWF history. This angle was an amplification of an angle in the old Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW), when Larry Zbyszko paid Killer Tim Brooks $25,000 for his NWA National Heavyweight Championship in 1983.\n\nA tournament was announced to crown a new WWF World Heavyweight Champion at WrestleMania IV, where DiBiase defeated Hacksaw Jim Duggan in the first round and Don Muraco in the quarterfinal before receiving a bye in the semi-finals to advance to the finals of the tournament. The reason for the bye was a double-elimination of Hulk Hogan and André the Giant when they both were disqualified in their match, with DiBiase meant to face the winner. In a backstage interview afterwards, André revealed that DiBiase paid him to make sure Hogan didn't advance in the tournament. DiBiase was defeated by \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage in the finals, helped by Hulk Hogan negating André's repeated interference in the match. DiBiase continued to feud with Savage throughout the summer of 1988, culminating in a tag team match pitting DiBiase and André the Giant vs. Hogan and Savage at the inaugural SummerSlam (in a match billed as \"Where The Mega Powers Meet The Mega Bucks\"). Although pro-heel commentator Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura served as the guest referee, Hogan pinned DiBiase to win the match. DiBiase then defeated Brutus Beefcake, Ken Patera, Ron Bass, and Randy Savage to win the 1988 King of the Ring tournament, receiving his first WWF success.\n\nBobby Heenan sold Hercules' contract to Ted DiBiase for his services as his personal slave. DiBiase claimed that Hercules was his slave but started feuding with him after Hercules turned face. He eliminated Hercules from the main event at Survivor Series.\n\nAt the Royal Rumble in 1989, DiBiase purchased the #30 entrance spot from Akeem to become the final entrant in the match. Big John Studd and DiBiase were the final two participants in the match. DiBiase offered Studd a bribe to eliminate himself, but Studd eliminated him to win the match. DiBiase continued to feud with Hercules; the two had a series of matches including a match that DiBiase won on the February 3 edition of \"The Main Event\". He defeated The Blue Blazer on the March 11 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\". After that match, he introduced the WWF Million Dollar Championship, his own championship belt which was not recognized by the WWF. He created this belt because he was unable to buy or win the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from Hulk Hogan.\n\nDiBiase fought Brutus Beefcake to a double-countout at WrestleMania V. DiBiase's next big feud was with Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts. A few weeks after WrestleMania, DiBiase attacked Roberts on \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" after Roberts defeated Virgil in a match. DiBiase put Roberts out of action for several months with a neck injury. (The storyline was created so Roberts could get surgery on his back from the guitar attack from The Honky Tonk Man a year earlier.) While Roberts recuperated, DiBiase defeated Jimmy \"The Superfly\" Snuka at SummerSlam by countout. On the October 14 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", DiBiase faced Hulk Hogan in a match for the WWF Championship where DiBiase had the monster Zeus by his side. DiBiase lost the match when he accidentally hit Zeus and was pinned by Hogan with a small package. At Survivor Series, DiBiase captained a team dubbed the \"Million Dollar Team\" consisting of himself, The Powers of Pain (The Warlord and The Barbarian), and Zeus against Hogan's \"Hulkamaniacs\" consisting of Hogan, Jake Roberts, and Demolition (Ax and Smash). DiBiase eliminated Roberts after pinning him with help from Virgil before being pinned himself by Hogan.\nIn 1990, he was punished for buying #30 in the previous year's Royal Rumble. For his punishment, he was forced to enter as entrant #1. He broke the record at the time by lasting 45 minutes in the Royal Rumble match after entering as the #1 entrant. He eliminated two opponents before he was eliminated by The Ultimate Warrior. This may have foreshadowed Dibiase seeking revenge on Warrior after Warrior became WWF Champion, by facing him several months later at a co-promotional All Japan and New Japan event in the Tokyo Dome. He then continued his feud with Jake Roberts, who stole the Million Dollar Belt, leading to a match at WrestleMania VI where Roberts was counted out. Shortly after WrestleMania, he had a brief feud with Big Bossman which dated back to when DiBiase tried to bribe Bossman into retrieving the Million Dollar Belt. Bossman refused DiBiase's bribe and returned the Million Dollar Belt to Roberts. At SummerSlam, DiBiase bought the services of Sapphire, who was the manager of Dusty Rhodes at the time. This led to Rhodes and DiBiase feuding throughout the end of 1990 into the beginning of 1991. On the October 30 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", he attacked Dusty's son Dustin Rhodes during Dusty's match with Randy Savage. DiBiase and Dusty captained rival teams at Survivor Series, with DiBiase's mystery partner turning out to be the debuting Undertaker. DiBiase wound up eliminating both members of The Hart Foundation and was the sole survivor of the match. He, however, was eliminated in the main event by Hogan. DiBiase said about Undertaker's debut \"nobody knew him, at the time if you know how this works they were using my celebrity and me introducing The Undertaker was helping him get over. He wasn't 'The Phenom' then he was just a new kid on the card, this new character The Undertaker and of course he grew in to be one of the greatest attractions the WWE has ever had. At the time it wasn't a big deal to me, I was just doing my job.\" Dibiase then received a shot at the world champion: the Ultimate Warrior on a special Thanksgiving episode of Saturday Night's Main Event, which ended when Dibiase was disqualified after Virgil attacked Warrior, which was seemingly an interlude to Randy Savage further assaulting Warrior. During this time Dibiase started to develop real life disdain for the Warrior and would later become very vocal about it both in behind the scenes interviews and in his auto biography.]\n\nAt the Royal Rumble, Ted DiBiase and Virgil defeated Dusty and Dustin Rhodes in a tag team match. After the match, DiBiase ordered Virgil to put the Million Dollar Championship belt around his waist. Virgil instead hit DiBiase with the belt, turning face. At WrestleMania VII, DiBiase lost by countout to Virgil, who had help from 'Rowdy' Roddy Piper. Sensational Sherri, who earlier in the night had turned on a losing Randy Savage, came down midway through the match to help DiBiase and became his full-time valet. On the April 27 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", DiBiase fought Bret Hart to a double countout.\n\nDiBiase lost the Million Dollar Championship to Virgil at SummerSlam when Virgil smashed his head into an exposed turnbuckle and pinned him to get the victory. DiBiase participated in the 1991 King of the Ring tournament drawing with Ricky Steamboat in the first round. DiBiase and Steamboat would battle to a time-limit draw with neither man advancing in the tournament. DiBiase regained the Million Dollar Championship from Virgil with help from Repo Man on the November 11 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\" which was dubbed \"Survivor Series Showdown\". At Survivor Series, he was one of the contestants eliminated from his match. At This Tuesday in Texas, DiBiase and Repo Man defeated Virgil and Tito Santana.\n\nTed DiBiase officially formed the tag team, Money Incorporated, with Irwin R. Schyster (IRS). The duo, mostly managed by Jimmy Hart, won the WWF Tag Team Championship three times between February 1992 and June 1993. Their first reign came on February 7, 1992 when they defeated The Legion of Doom for the titles. Money Incorporated then feuded with The Natural Disasters (Earthquake and Typhoon). They defended the title against the Natural Disasters at WrestleMania VIII and lost the match by countout, thus retaining the title. On July 20, they lost the title to the Natural Disasters.\n\nAfter losing a match to the Legion of Doom at SummerSlam, DiBiase and IRS regained the belts on the October 13 edition of \"Wrestling Challenge\" from the Natural Disasters. This title change led to a feud with The Nasty Boys, who were originally scheduled for the title shot. On the November 14 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", they defended their titles against the Ultimate Maniacs (Ultimate Warrior and Randy Savage). DiBiase and IRS lost the match by countout and thus retained the titles once more.\n\nTed DiBiase participated in the Royal Rumble match, entering at #4 before eventually being eliminated by The Undertaker. Shortly after, DiBiase and IRS became involved in a major angle with the returning Brutus Beefcake. DiBiase faced Beefcake on one of the first episodes of \"Monday Night Raw\". DiBiase and IRS attacked Beefcake after the match and slammed his face (which had been surgically repaired following a windsailing accident) with a briefcase. Money Inc. also attacked their manager Jimmy Hart, who was disgusted by their actions. Beefcake's best friend Hulk Hogan came to Beefcake's defense and challenged Money Inc. to a tag team title match at WrestleMania IX. DiBiase and IRS retained their titles by disqualification after Hogan used Beefcake's protective face mask as a weapon.\n\nMoney Inc. dominated the tag team division of the WWF. They feuded with the Steiner Brothers (Rick and Scott) and had a series of title exchanges. DiBiase and IRS were defeated by the Steiners for the WWF Tag Team Championship on the June 14 edition of \"Monday Night Raw\". They would regain the titles on June 16 at a live event but lost them back to the Steiners three days later on June 19 at another live event. DiBiase last wrestled for the WWF in August, bowing out following an angle which saw Razor Ramon turn face and 1-2-3 Kid debut. The Kid had scored an upset pinfall against a cocky Ramon, causing DiBiase to mock Ramon and tell him he would show him how it was done. He then went on to also lose to the Kid, giving Razor a newfound respect for the Kid thus turning Razor face. This included a match at SummerSlam between DiBiase and Ramon which DiBiase lost. This was DiBiase's last TV appearance in the WWF during this run. He revealed in a shoot interview that his decision to leave the WWF at this point was motivated by a desire to resolve his marital problems.\n\nAfter a few months back in AJPW, where he won the World Tag Team Championship with Hansen, he quietly announced his retirement due to sustaining an injury to two cervical discs in his neck and returned to the USA.\n\nDiBiase returned to the WWF at the Royal Rumble as a guest commentator. DiBiase then began working as a commentator and manager for the WWF. Later in 1994, DiBiase purchased the contracts of many wrestlers for his Million Dollar Corporation stable in the WWF, which over time included I.R.S., Bam Bam Bigelow, Nikolai Volkoff, Kama, King Kong Bundy, Sycho Sid, 1-2-3 Kid, and in a swerve, Tatanka. DiBiase also renewed his connection with the Undertaker after the latter's six-month hiatus after the January Royal Rumble. Saying that he had originally brought the Undertaker to the WWF, and he was going to bring him back, DiBiase debuted a new Undertaker under his control. This Undertaker however proved to be an impostor played by Brian Lee, and was subsequently defeated by the real Undertaker at SummerSlam.\n\nDiBiase also had a place in the main event of WrestleMania XI as the manager of Bam Bam Bigelow in his match versus Lawrence Taylor. Surrounding the ring were members of DiBiase's corporation to offset Taylor's entourage of NFL All-Pros on the opposite side. After Taylor defeated Bigelow, DiBiase publicly referred to Bigelow as an embarrassment. This culminated in Bigelow quitting The Corporation after DiBiase fired him following a loss to Diesel in a WWF Championship match. Bigelow aligned himself with Diesel in a feud versus members of DiBiase's corporation.\n\nAs a manager, DiBiase also later introduced \"The Ringmaster\", who eventually became Stone Cold Steve Austin, to the WWF in January 1996. Austin became the Million Dollar Champion and began wearing DiBiase's gold belt that was introduced in 1989. DiBiase's last appearance with the company was at in 1996, where he was kayfabe forced to leave the WWF after Steve Austin lost to Savio Vega. In reality, he left for rival promotion World Championship Wrestling (WCW).\n\nIn WCW, DiBiase became the fourth member of the New World Order (nWo) (along with Scott Hall, Kevin Nash and former enemy Hollywood Hogan) on August 26, 1996, nearly a month and a half after their formation in July 1996. He claimed to be financing the group (thus playing on his \"Million Dollar Man\" gimmick that WCW could not legally use outright). He was referred to, instead, as \"Trillionaire Ted\", a play on \"Billionaire Ted\", the nickname WWF gave to Ted Turner. DiBiase was the spokesperson for the NWO for 3 months until Eric Bischoff joined the NWO and replaced him in that role.\n\nDiBiase quit the nWo shortly after Spring Stampede. Less than a few months later, on the August 4, 1997, episode of \"Nitro\", he made a face turn, managing The Steiner Brothers. DiBiase managed The Steiners until Scott turned heel and joined the nWo. DiBiase also managed one-time WWF rival Ray Traylor for a while until he stopped managing altogether. DiBiase then became a road agent for the company and left entirely when his contract expired in late 1999.\n\nIn 2013, DiBiase said about his time in WCW: \"Eric Bischoff doesn't know that much about wrestling\", \"Eric took credit for the NWO but that wasn't his idea, the NWO had already been done in Japan, so they had copied something that had already been done. It was a good idea, but originally I was supposed to be the mouth piece of the NWO and reality is I think Eric saw how it was getting over and he saw how he could put himself in the role that he had hired me for. As each week went by pretty soon Eric isn't the announcer anymore, he becomes part of the NWO and I just went to him one day and told him I'm not just going to walk out there and be Hulk Hogans' Virgil, you hired me to be the spokesperson for this, so if that's not what I'm going to do you can send me home. The reason I said that was because they had to pay me one way or the other, because I had a contract where they had to pay me for three years\".\n\nIn late 2004, WWE offered DiBiase a job as creative. He accepted the job and worked as part of the creative team a year and a half. In April 2005, DiBiase was hired as a creative consultant and road agent for the SmackDown! brand of World Wrestling Entertainment. On October 3, 2005, at \"WWE Homecoming\", DiBiase appeared with other WWE legends in a ceremony. He eventually led the attack on Rob Conway, who had come down to the ring to insult the legends.\nDiBiase inducted his former manager Sensational Sherri into the WWE Hall of Fame on April 1, 2006 and made an appearance at WrestleMania 22, offering Eugene $1,000 to dribble a basketball 100 times backstage and kicked the ball away at the last second. DiBiase also appeared on \"Raw\" on April 17 behind a newspaper doing his famous evil laugh as the camera went off air. DiBiase made an appearance at an IPW show in Newton, Iowa on July 14, 2006, where he watched his sons' tag team match. The following day, he accepted the George Tragos/Lou Thesz Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame induction for his father, Mike, at the International Wrestling Institute and Museum. He also appeared at the \"Raw Family Reunion\" on October 9, 2006 aiding Ric Flair in his match with the Spirit Squad. On October 26, 2006, Ted DiBiase was released from his WWE contract.\n\nDiBiase made his first in ring appearance in over five years at the \"Raw 15th Anniversary Special\" on December 10, 2007, by winning a 15-man battle royal, in which he was not even an active participant. Irwin R. Schyster, DiBiase's former tag team partner of Money Incorporated, had won the battle royal. DiBiase came down to ringside and offered Schyster a bribe to eliminate himself. Schyster accepted and hopped over the top rope, making DiBiase the victor. DiBiase then declared that even after fifteen years, everyone still had a price for the \"Million Dollar Man.\"\n\nOn the May 19, 2008 edition of \"Raw\", he was seen alongside Mr. McMahon about to \"discuss business\", in William Regal's office. On the following \"Raw\", DiBiase introduced his son Ted DiBiase, Jr. to WWE as its newest member.\n\nDiBiase is now a Christian minister. In 1999, he founded \"Heart of David Ministry\" and travels the world ministering to churches, camps and conferences including Promise Keepers and Youth of the Nation. Ted is also the author of \"Every Man Has His Price\", a part-autobiography and part-Christian testimony.\n\nOn the June 29 episode of \"Raw\", Ted DiBiase, Jr. announced in a segment with Cody Rhodes and Randy Orton that DiBiase would appear on \"Raw\" the following week as the special guest host, and DiBiase appeared as scheduled on July 6. On the show, DiBiase booked his son to face Randy Orton. After DiBiase Jr. lost the match, he accused his father of setting him up and trying to steal his time, even slapping his father across the face. DiBiase would later come out at the end of the show and sanctioned a triple threat match for Randy Orton's WWE Championship at Night of Champions including John Cena and Triple H in his final act as the guest host. He is also a playable character in \"WWE Legends of WrestleMania\" and an unlockable superstar in \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010\" and \"WWE 2K14\". DiBiase was announced as the first inductee of the WWE Hall of Fame Class of 2010 on the February 8 episode of \"Raw\". DiBiase appeared again on the November 2 edition of \"NXT\", where he was the minister for Aksana and Goldust's wedding. On February 21, 2011, it was announced DiBiase would induct Jim Duggan into the Hall of Fame. He appeared on the Slammy Awards episode of \"Raw\" on December 12 alongside fellow legend Mick Foley, and presented the \"Holy %&@*# Move of the Year\" award, which was won by Mark Henry and Big Show. On April 10, 2012, DiBiase made an appearance on \"Smackdown: Blast from the Past\". He returned on the March 4, 2013 \"Old School Raw\" at ringside with The Prime Time Players and agreed to be their manager if they won the match against Team Hell No. DiBiase appeared at the 2014 \"Old School Raw\" special, encountering Big E Langston on his way to a match and told him everybody's got a price, to which Langston smiled. During July 2015 DiBiase made an appearance at the Armageddon Expo in Wellington, New Zealand. He was the guest general manager for New Zealand wrestling promotion, Impact Pro Wrestling (IPW). He also managed James Shaw and The Million Dollar Team to the ring, and attacked Daniel Burnell with a poke in the eye and The Million Dollar Dream.\n\nIn an interview with ESPN.com in 2016, DiBiase revealed that he and Virgil had a falling out over Virgil booking independent wrestling shows with the two without DiBiase's knowledge and subsequently no-showing the events. DiBiase had to subsequently apologize to the promotions for the unintentional no-shows and had to stress that Virgil doesn't represent him for bookings.\n\nOn January 22, 2018, DiBiase made an appearance during the 25th Anniversary episode of \"Raw\" in which he played Poker with The Acolytes Protection Agency.\n\n\n\nAll three of his sons—Mike (from his first marriage), and Ted Jr. and Brett (from his current marriage)—were professional wrestlers.\n\nHe went to West Texas State University, where he was a member of Alpha Tau Omega.\n\nDiBiase appeared in \"Christian Living Magazine\" in the July/Aug 2008 edition where he stated: “God had allowed me to climb to the top — my life was made into action figures; I wrestled in front of 80,000 people. Yet, I was still not satisfied. I was trying to fill this void in my life, like so many others have done in the entertainment world. But the thing that’s almost unbelievable about God is His grace and mercy. We fail all the time, but there’s no shame in failing—only in not getting up and keeping on”.\n\nOn May 14, 2009, DiBiase appeared in \"MuscleSport Magazine\" where his ministerial booking agent and publicist, William J. Bruce III, commented, \"I have had the privilege of getting to know Ted over the last couple of years as his booking agent and publicist though Willowcreek Marketing. I will never forget a comment that I once heard him relate about the difference of knowing God or knowing about God; “a lot of people remember my last match, they can remember what I wore, what moves I made and who won, they know everything about me, but they don’t know me. In many ways that is how we as Christians are, we know everything about God… but we don’t know Him”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35517382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35517382", "title": "Teylers Eerste Schilderijenzaal", "text": "Teylers Eerste Schilderijenzaal\n\nThe Eerste Schilderijenzaal, or Painting Gallery I, is one of two art gallery rooms in Teylers Museum and is the oldest art gallery for contemporary Dutch art in the Netherlands. It was built onto the back of Teylers Oval Room in 1838. It was the young museum's first exhibition space for paintings and could be entered through the Oval Room, which was itself located behind the Fundatiehuis, the former home of Pieter Teyler van der Hulst.\n\nTeylers Foundation started collecting contemporary Dutch paintings in 1821. The paintings were either commissioned directly from the painters or acquired at exhibitions. The first room used to display paintings was the room that is today used as a print cabinet and was added to the Oval room in 1824 along with the library room upstairs. The lack of light quickly made viewing the paintings there unpopular and it was used mostly for lectures and experiments. \nAccording to the archives, the expansion was done by the foundation's own building crew that was on hand for day-to-day improvements. The gallery had large curved windows like the Oval room, which have since been closed. An impression of the original windows can be seen in a charcoal sketch by Johan Conrad Greive in 1862. The collection today is mostly based on that same group of paintings. The gallery also contains a table that was used to hold the portfolios of drawings and a similar portfolio with Rembrandt and Michelangelo reproductions can still be consulted (the actual drawings are held in special storage).\n\nThe selection of paintings was done mostly according to the advice of the curator and concierge, who lived in the Fundatiehuis. For the early days this was Vincent Jansz van der Vinne. Van der Vinne was replaced by Wybrand Hendriks, whose own works, those of his friends, and works by his successor Gerrit Jan Michaëlis hang in the gallery. No works by Van der Vinne are represented, who left Teylers after a disagreement with Martin van Marum. One of the first large canvases to be purchased (1825) was \"Storm at sea\", by the marine painter Johannes Christiaan Schotel. A few years later, its counterpart was ordered: \"Calm sea\". It is striking that, in the early period, paintings were often bought in pairs. \n\nList of painters in alphabetical order, accompanied by an example hanging in the first gallery: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26543484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26543484", "title": "Wordster", "text": "Wordster\n\nWordster is an online language resource, that offers through its website dictionary, thesaurus, and other services for anyone learning about the English language. Much of the content in Wordster is automatically generated, and it applies a number of automated language processing and scalable data retrieval technologies in producing user output.\n\nWordster was founded by Anindya Datta, originally as a resource to help his daughter Diya learn the meanings of words in context. Anindya was subsequently joined by Jay Clark, his friend and former business partner. Wordster is a privately funded startup with offices and teams working in Atlanta, Georgia; Singapore; and Kolkata (Calcutta), India. The company employs individuals with backgrounds in computer science, languages, education, and lexicography.\n\n\nWordster is a testbed for a number of scientific advances, such as the Lexical Crawler. The Lexical Crawler program \"crawls\" through websites, blogs, and other channels to find sample sentences for all the entries on Wordster. Over 1 million words have been identified from over 200 million documents that have been \"crawled\". To address one of the most difficult problems in the science of Natural Language Processing, Wordster has developed a system that allows for online semantic processing and recognition of words in context. All of this processing occurs in real time.\n\n\n"}
