{"id": "33977191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33977191", "title": "Agder Natural History Museum and Botanical Garden", "text": "Agder Natural History Museum and Botanical Garden\n\nNatural History Museum and Botanical Garden, University of Agder (Norwegian :\"Naturmuseum og botanisk hage, Universitetet i Agder\", formerly Kristiansand Museum and Agder Natural History Museum) is the only natural history museum on the Southern Coast of Norway, located in Kristiansand in Vest-Agder County. The museum was founded in 1828 as part of Kristiansand Katedralskole, named Kristiansand Museum. The current museum and botanical garden is run by the University of Agder. \n\nToday the natural history museum and botanical garden is located in the former farm Gimle, where the museum is in the outhouse and the park is about botanical garden, while the main building in Gimle Gård also has a museum, part of \"Vest-Agder Museum\". The museum's current exhibition space was opened by the then Crown Prince Harald 26 June 1990.\n\nThe permanent exhibits are from the early 1990s, and the focus is placed on the topics: \"from the Ice Age to the Present\" and \"from sea to the mountains\". In addition, an exhibition on \"minerals and rocks\". In addition to these, exhibitions are shown in limited periods.\n\nBotanical garden consists of plants both outside and indoors. Inside there is the largest collection of succulents in Norway, the issues are many and varied. Themes vary from year to year. The botanical garden is a source of knowledge, beauty, adventure and of course recreation, and includes all green spaces in Gimle Gård.\n\nBotanical Garden consists of exotic pitcher plants framing the garden, carnivorous plants, herbs, nectar garden and a popular children's playground.\n\nThe garden contains various plant collections. There is an old park in the free English landscape style, historic rose garden, rose garden and modern roses, South Norwegian rose garden, millenniumgarden, conifers collection (arboretum), shrubs and trees at the museum's parking lot (lignoses), perennials, rock garden, pond with water plants, heather garden and a collection of Rhododendron.\n"}
{"id": "5676556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5676556", "title": "Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors", "text": "Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors\n\n\"Alive\" tells the story of an Uruguayan Rugby team (who were alumni of Stella Maris College), and their friends and family who were involved in the airplane crash of Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571. The plane crashed into the Andes mountains on Friday, October 13, 1972. Of the 45 people on the flight, only 16 survived in sub-zero temperatures. After numerous days spent searching for survivors, the rescue team was forced to end the search. Consequently, the survivors had to sustain life with rations found in the wreckage after the plane had crashed. The rations did not last long, and in order to stay alive it became necessary for the survivors to eat the bodies of the dead. This was possible because the bodies had been preserved with the freezing temperatures and the snow. The book was published two years after the survivors of the crash were rescued. \nThe author interviewed many of the survivors as well as the family members of the passengers before writing this book to obtain facts about the crash. He wanted to write the story as it had happened without embellishment or fictionalizing it. The author comments on this process in the \"Acknowledgments\" section:\n\nI was given a free hand in writing this book by both the publisher and the sixteen survivors. At times I was tempted to fictionalize certain parts of the story because this might have added to their dramatic impact but in the end I decided that the bare facts were sufficient to sustain the narrative...when I returned in October 1973 to show them the manuscript of this book, some of them were disappointed by my presentation of their story. They felt that the faith and friendship which inspired them in the cordillera do not emerge from these pages. It was never my intention to underestimate these qualities, but perhaps it would be beyond the skill of any writer to express their own appreciation of what they lived through.\n\nThe book was a critical success. Walter Clemons declared that it \"will become a classic in the literature of survival.\"\n\nD. Keith Mano, of \"The New York Times Book Review\" gave the book a \"rave\" review, stating that \"Read's style is savage: unliterary, undecorated as a prosecutor's brief.\" He also described the book as an important one:\n\nCowardice, selfishness, whatever: their essential heroism can weather Read's objectivity. He has made them human. 'Alive' is thunderous entertainment: I know the events by rote, nonetheless I found it electric. And important. 'Alive' should be read by sociologists, educators, the Joint Chief of Staff. By anyone, in fact, whose business it is to prepare men for adversity.\n\nMichael A. Rogers concurs, stating that \"Read has risen above the sensational and managed a book of real and lasting value.\"\n\nThe first edition was released in 1974. A paperback which referenced the film \"Alive: The Miracle of the Andes\", was released in 1993. A new softcover edition, with a revised introduction and additional interviews with Piers Paul Read, Coche Inciarte, and Alvaro Mangino, was released by HarperCollins in 2005. This edition also has a new subtitle: \"Sixteen Men, Seventy-two Days, and Insurmountable Odds -- The Classic Adventure of Survival in the Andes\". The book was also re-released, simply titled \"Alive\", in October 2012.\n\nIn 1993, \"\", by Frank Marshall was released. A companion documentary, \"\", was made at the same time.\n\nThe book inspired the song \"The Plot Sickens\" on the album Every Trick in the Book by American metalcore band Ice Nine Kills.\n\n"}
{"id": "26446535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26446535", "title": "Arctic studies", "text": "Arctic studies\n\nArctic studies may include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4127383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4127383", "title": "Atlantic (period)", "text": "Atlantic (period)\n\nThe Atlantic in palaeoclimatology was the warmest and moistest Blytt-Sernander period, pollen zone and chronozone of Holocene northern Europe. The climate was generally warmer than today. It was preceded by the Boreal, with a climate similar to today’s, and was followed by the Subboreal, a transition to the modern. Because it was the warmest period of the Holocene, the Atlantic is often referenced more directly as the Holocene climatic optimum, or just climatic optimum.\n\nThe Atlantic is equivalent to Pollen Zone VII. Sometimes a Pre-atlantic or early Atlantic is distinguished, on the basis of an early dividing cold snap. Other scientists place the Atlantic entirely after the cold snap, assigning the latter to the Boreal. The period is still in the process of definition.\n\nIt is a question of definition and the criteria:\nBeginning with the temperatures, as derivable from Greenland ice core data, it is possible to define an 'Early' or 'Pre-Atlantic' period at around 8040 BC, where the O isotope line remains above 33 ppm in the combined curve after Rasmussen et al. (2006), which then would end at the well-known 6.2 ka BC (8.2 ka calBP)-cold-event.\n\nOr one single Atlantic period is defined, starting at that just mentioned cold-event.\n\nAfter a lake-level criterion, Kul’kova and others define the Atlantic as running from 8000 to 5000 (cal?) BP. Early Atlantic, or AT1, was a time of high lake levels, 8000–7000 BP; in Middle Atlantic, AT2, lakes were at a lower level, 7000–6500 BP; and in Late Atlantic I, 6500–6000 BP, and II, 6000–5700 BP, levels were on the rise. Each period has its distinctive ratios of species.\n\nAccording to the ice-core criterion it is extremely difficult to find a clear boundary, because the measurements still differ too much and alignments are still under construction. Many find a decline of temperature significant enough after 4800 BC.\nAnother criterion comes from bio-stratigraphy: the elm-decline. However, this appears in different regions between 4300 and 3100 BC.\n\nThe Atlantic was a time of rising temperature and marine transgression on the islands of Denmark and elsewhere. The sea rose to 3 m above its present level by the end of the period. The oysters found there required lower salinity. Tides of up to 1 m were present. Inland, lake levels in all north Europe were generally higher, with fluctuations.\n\nThe temperature rise had the effect of extending southern climates northward in a relatively short period. The treelines on northern mountains rose by 600 to 900 m (2000–3000 feet). Thermophilous (\"heat-loving\") species migrated northward. They did not replace the species that were there, but shifted the percentages in their favor. Across middle Europe, the boreal forests were replaced by climax or \"old growth\" deciduous ones, which, though providing a denser canopy, were more open at the base.\n\nThe dense canopy theory, however, has been questioned recently by F. Vera. Oak and hazel require more light than is allowed by the dense canopy. Vera hypothesizes that the lowlands were more open and that the low frequency of grass pollen was caused by the browsing of large herbivores, such as Bos primigenius and Equus ferus.\n\nDuring the Atlantic period the deciduous temperate zone forests of south and central Europe extended northward to replace the boreal mixed forest, which found refugia on the mountain slopes. Mistletoe, Water Chestnut (\"Trapa natans\") and Ivy (\"Hedera helix\") were present in Denmark. Grass pollen decreased. Softwood forests were replaced by hardwood. \"Quercus\", \"Tilia\", both cordata and platyphyllos, beech, oak, hazel, linden, \"Ulmus glabra\", alder, and ash replaced \"Betula\" and \"Pinus\", spreading to the north from further south. The period is sometimes called \"the alder-elm-lime period\".\n\nIn northeast Europe, the Early Atlantic forest was but slightly affected by the rise in temperature. The forest had been pine with an underbrush of hazel, alder, birch, and willow. Only about 7% of the forest became broad-leaved deciduous, dropping to Boreal levels in the cooling of the Middle Atlantic. In the warmer Late Atlantic, the broad-leaved trees became 34% of the forest.\n\nAlong the line of the Danube and the Rhine, extending northward in tributary drainage systems, a new factor entered the forest country: the Linear Pottery culture, clearing the arable land by slash and burn methods. It flourished about 5500–4500 BC, falling entirely within the Atlantic. By the end of the Atlantic, agricultural and pasture lands extended over much of Europe and the once virgin forests were contained within refugia. The end of the Atlantic is signaled by the \"Elm decline\", a sharp drop in Elm pollen, thought to be the result of climate, disease or\nhuman food-producing activities. In the subsequent cooler Sub-Boreal, forested country gave way to open range once more.\n\nThe best picture of Atlantic Period fauna comes from the kitchen middens of the Ertebølle culture of Denmark and others like it. Denmark was more of an archipelago. Humans lived on the shorelines, exploiting waters rich in marine life, marshes teeming with birds, and forests where cervids and suids as well as numerous small species were plentiful.\n\nThe higher water levels offset the effects of the submarine toxic zone in the Baltic Sea. It contained fish now rare there, such as the anchovy, \"Engraulis encrasicolus,\" and the three-spined stickleback, \"Gasterosteus aculeatus\". Also available were pike, whitefish, cod, and ling. Three kinds of seals were found there, the ringed, harp and grey. Mesolithic man hunted them and whales in the estuaries.\n\nThe main birds were maritime: the red-throated diver, the black-throated diver, and the gannet. The Dalmatian pelican (\"Pelecanus crispus\"), which is now found only as far north as south-eastern Europe, has been found in Denmark. The capercaillie, as is the case now, was found in forested areas.\n\nIn the lofty canopy could be found a continuous zone of smaller animals, such as the ubiquitous squirrel, \"Sciuris vulgaris\". Daubenton's bat (\"Myotis daubentonii\") was common. In and around the big trees hunted the wildcat, pine marten, polecat (\"Mustela putorius\"), and wolf.\n\nThe forest floor was prolific with larger browsers and rooters as well: the red deer, roe deer, and wild boar. Not all the former plains mammals had abandoned the country. They remained in the open forest and meadows. These include the aurochs, ancestor of cattle, and the wild horse which, as a discovery, was something of a revelation. The horses were not entirely hunted out, were not confined to the plains further east, and were not entirely the property of the Indo-European cultures there. The Mesolithic Ertebølle people were hunting them in Denmark.\n\nHuman cultures of north Europe were primarily Mesolithic. The Kongemose culture (6400–5400 BC) settled on the coastline and lake margins of Denmark. Late in the Atlantic, Kongemose culture settlements were abandoned due to rising water of the Littorina Sea and the succeeding Ertebølle culture (5400–3900 BC) settled more densely on the new shorelines.\n\nNortheast Europe was uninhabited in the Early Atlantic. When the Mesolithic Sertuan Culture appeared there in the Middle Atlantic, around 7000 BP, it already had pottery and was more sedentary than earlier hunter-gatherers, depending on the great abundance of wild-life. Pottery was being used around the lower Don and Volga from about 8000 BP.\n\nIn the Late Atlantic Sertuan culture evolved into Rudnya culture, which used pottery like that of the Narva and Dnieper-Donets cultures. This use of pottery upsets the idea that pottery belongs to the Neolithic. Further to the south the Linear Pottery culture had already spread into the riverlands of central Europe and was working a great transformation of the land. On the steppe to the east, the Samara culture was deeply involved with large numbers of horses, although in what capacity is not yet clear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23698993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23698993", "title": "Babaghuri", "text": "Babaghuri\n\nBabaghuri is a kind of agate stone found in Gujarat, India, coloured mostly white yellow or orange.\nIt is named after Baba Ghor, a patron saint of people of African descent living in India and supposedly the person who started the worldwide trade in these stones.\n"}
{"id": "1930594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1930594", "title": "Bramertonian Stage", "text": "Bramertonian Stage\n\nThe Bramertonian Stage is the name for an early Pleistocene biostratigraphic stage in the British Isles. It precedes the Pre-Pastonian Stage (Baventian Stage). It derives its name from Bramerton Pits in Norfolk, where the deposits can be found on the surface. The exact timing of the beginning and end of the Bramertonian Stage is currently unknown. It is only known that it is equivalent to the Tiglian C1-4b Stage of Europe and early Pre-Illinoian Stage of North America. It lies somewhere in time between Marine Oxygen Isotope stages 65 to 95 and somewhere between 1.816 and 2.427 Ma (million years ago). The Bramertonian is correlated with the Antian stage identified from pollen assemblages in the Ludham borehole.\n\nDuring this stage, the climate was temperate with evidence for mixed oak forest in southern England and the arrival of hemlock. Evidence from East Anglia suggests sea levels were higher than they are today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37760217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37760217", "title": "Brownfield remediation and economic development", "text": "Brownfield remediation and economic development\n\nPlanners often look to the past to shape the future; without referencing case studies (past failures and successes) it is difficult to know what will produce a great city. Brownfield remediation and the need for affordable housing to produce economic development are two issues supported by a number of planning theories and case studies. \n\nA Brownfield as defined by the EPA is “a real property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant.” Brownfield remediation is being considered more and more often as a viable way to revitalize and spur economic development in communities. It is often dismissed by developers as being too expensive, but a number of studies actually show that remediation has a great number of public benefits as well as economic and environmental gains.\n\nSome pros for Brownfield redevelopment include: \n\nThe term Brownfield was coined on June 28, 1992, at a U.S. congressional field hearing hosted by the Northeast Midwest Congressional Coalition, and the first detailed policy analysis of the issue was convened by the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission. The next year, the EPA selected Cuyahoga County as its first Brownfield pilot project.\n\nThere are a number of laws and incentives that have helped to promote the re-use of Brownfield sites. Among the most notable are:\n\n\nAssociated costs with brownfield remediation include:\n\nAs part of their discussion on industrial land, the Port of Portland, Portland Development Commission, METRO and the Portland Bureau of Planning sponsored a Brownfield/Greenfield Development Cost Comparison Study with the goal of providing a better understanding of costs and issues associated with industrial development of Greenfield sites and the redevelopment of Brownfield sites. The study also compares Brownfield and Greenfield land development costs. Using case-studies, the project compared costs associated with specific industrial projects between Brownfield sites and Greenfield sites. Four types of industrial development projects were identified: general manufacturing, high tech, warehouse and distribution, and industrial park.\n\nAs shown, the cost of remediation in these case studies negates the savings in infrastructure costs. However, there are many benefits that are not exhibited in this analysis. Brownfield redevelopment poses a number of public benefits not accrued by Greenfield development such as: increased local income tax revenues, public land conservation and other environmental policy goals, the social benefits associated with contaminated site remediation and economic revitalization, and the enhancement of surrounding property values. The following is a monetary breakdown of the public benefits differential between Brownfield and Greenfield development.\n\nA great example of how Brownfield Remediation has been extremely successful is the Whitin Machine Works mill renovation in Whitinsvill, MA. A more detailed breakdown of this project, the Portland study, and an overview of the costs and benefits associated with remediation can be found in the imbedded file \"Cost Benefits of Brownfield Remediation.\"\n\nThere are a number of ethical concerns involved with providing affordable housing. Such as:\n\nThe imbedded PDF, \"Hampden County employment data,\" breaks down unemployment levels in 2000, 2005, and 2010 across Hampden County, MA. When compared to figures showing where the extremely affordable housing (homes valued at less than $50,000), is located, it becomes apparent that since not every town has affordable housing, the very poor are limited to areas with low income homes which may take them further away from jobs, and result in higher unemployment figures.\n"}
{"id": "23183570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23183570", "title": "Cenogram", "text": "Cenogram\n\nA cenogram is a graphical comparison of the average adult weight of mammalian species within a terrestrial area. In studying ancient communities, it is used to draw conclusions about biome, including whether a biome is species rich, its relative humidity and level of forestation. Cenograms were introduced in 1964 by J.A. Valverde in \"Terre et Vie\" and have become common in the study of prehistoric fauna of the northern hemisphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "46738646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46738646", "title": "Cherokee ethnobotany", "text": "Cherokee ethnobotany\n\nThis is a list of plants documented to have been traditionally used by the Cherokee, and how they are used.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6005240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6005240", "title": "Chipseal", "text": "Chipseal\n\nChipseal (also chip seal) is a pavement surface treatment that combines one or more layer(s) of asphalt with one or more layer(s) of fine aggregate. In the United States, chipseals are typically used on rural roads carrying lower traffic volumes, and the process is often referred to as \"asphaltic surface treatment\". In Australia and New Zealand chipsealing is used on a larger percentage of roads, both rural and urban. This type of surface has a variety of other names including \"tar and chip\", \"sprayed seal\" or \"surface dressing\".\n\nThe chipseal method was developed in New Zealand in 1935 by Frederick Melrose Horowhenua Hanson while working for the Public Works Department (later the Ministry of Works and Development).\n\nChipsealing is cheaper than resurfacing an asphalt concrete or a Portland cement concrete pavement, but not as long-lasting. In some states of the United States, chipsealing is used in conjunction with new road construction to make the road bed more durable and longer-lasting.\n\nChipseals are constructed by evenly distributing a thin base of hot bitumen or asphalt onto an existing pavement and then embedding finely graded aggregate into it. The aggregate is evenly distributed over the seal spray, then rolled into a smooth pavement surface. A chip-seal-surfaced pavement can optionally be sealed with a top layer, which is referred to as a fog seal or enrichment. \n\nThe introduction of polymer-modified bitumen and emulsion binder has increased chipseal's ability to prevent crack reflection and improve stone retention by improving the properties of the bitumen binder. Newer techniques use asphalt emulsion (a mixture of liquid asphalt, surfactant, and water) instead of asphalt. This has been shown to help reduce aggregate loss and reduce cost of installation, but can increase stripping (separation of the binder from the aggregate). It reduces emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) due to the lower solvent content. New methods also utilize cross linking styrene acrylic polymers which also provide quality water resistance. Chips precoated with about one percent bitumen have been used successfully to minimize aggregate loss and to give the surface a black look.\nIt can keep good pavement in good condition by sealing out water, but provides no structural strength and will repair only minor cracks. While the small stones used as surface yield a relatively even surface without the edges of patches, it also results in a very rough surface that leads to louder rolling noise from automobile wheels.\n\nAlthough chipseal is an effective low-cost way to repair road, it has some drawbacks. Loose crushed stone is often left on the surface, owing to underapplication of bitumen or overapplication of stone. If not removed, this can cause safety and environmental problems such as cracked windshields, chipped paint, loss-of-control crashes (especially for motorcyclists, bicyclists and small trucks), and deposition of foreign material into drainage courses. Therefore, it is very important to sweep the road after the emulsion sets. As mentioned earlier, this problem can be minimized by using chips precoated with bitumen. Overapplication of emulsion can lead to bleeding, a condition where the excess asphalt rises to the surface, creating a very smooth surface that is very slippery when wet and bubbling in the hotter summer months. As cars drive over it the tires kick up this tarry substance on to the side of the car. It can only be cleaned off with a solvent remover or diesel fuel.\n\nThe rough wearing surface of the chipseal generates more roadway noise at any operating speed than do typical asphalt or concrete surfaces. These sound intensities increase with higher vehicle speeds. There is a considerable range in acoustical intensities produced depending upon the specific tire tread design and its interaction with the roadway surface type.\n\nThe rough surface causes noticeable increases in vibration and rolling resistance for bicyclists, and increased tire wear in all types of tires. \n\nVehicle speed can affect the set up time with chipseal. Shortly after construction (depending on weather conditions) the set speed for chipseal is for the first 24–48 hours after construction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13534706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13534706", "title": "Clean Energy Trends", "text": "Clean Energy Trends\n\nClean Energy Trends is a series of reports by Clean Edge which examine markets for solar, wind, geothermal, fuel cells, biofuels, and other clean energy technologies. Since the publication of the first \"Clean Energy Trends\" report in 2002, Clean Edge has provided an\nannual snapshot of both the global and U.S. clean energy sector markets.\n\nIn 2006 most climate change skeptics began to change their views. Scientists, investors, business leaders, and politicians moved the agenda from whether climate change was occurring to what should be done about it. The acceptance of climate change as “real” helped to unlock latent interest in clean energy technologies on the part of corporate and political leaders. In Washington and other capitals, clean energy became a bipartisan issue. In corporate boardrooms, it is said to be fast becoming an imperative. And clean energy markets are growing:\n\n\"Clean Energy Trends 2007\" shows markets for four benchmark technologies — solar photovoltaics, wind power, biofuels, and fuel cells — continuing their steady climb. Annual revenue for these four technologies increased nearly 39% in one year — to $55 billion in 2006 up from $40 billion in 2005. Clean Edge forecasts that this trajectory will continue to become a $226 billion market by 2016.\n\nSeveral developments have helped to strengthen clean energy markets in 2007:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13310687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13310687", "title": "Convective momentum transport", "text": "Convective momentum transport\n\nConvective momentum transport usually describes a vertical flux of the momentum of horizontal winds or currents. That momentum is carried like a non-conserved flow tracer by vertical air motions in convection.\n\nIn the atmosphere, convective momentum transport by small but vigorous (cumulus type) cloudy updrafts can be understood as an interplay of three main mechanisms:\n\n\nThe net effect of these interacting mechanisms depends on the detailed configuration or 'organization' of the convective cloud or storm system. \n\n"}
{"id": "29247528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29247528", "title": "Earth's shadow", "text": "Earth's shadow\n\nEarth's shadow or Earth shadow is the shadow that Earth itself casts onto its atmosphere and into outer space, toward the antisolar point. During twilight (both early dusk and late dawn), the shadow's visible fringe (sometimes called the dark segment or twilight wedge) appears in a clear sky as a dark and diffused band low above the horizon.\n\nEarth's shadow cast onto the atmosphere can be viewed during the \"civil\" stage of twilight, assuming the sky is clear and the horizon is relatively unobstructed. The shadow's fringe appears as a dark bluish to purplish band that stretches over 180° of the horizon opposite the Sun, i.e. in the eastern sky at dusk and in the western sky at dawn. Before sunrise, Earth's shadow appears to recede as the Sun rises; after sunset, the shadow appears to rise as the Sun sets.\n\nEarth's shadow is best seen when the horizon is low, such as over the sea, and when the sky conditions are clear. In addition, the higher the observer's elevation is to view the horizon, the sharper the shadow appears.\n\nA related phenomenon in the same part of the sky is the Belt of Venus, or anti-twilight arch, a pinkish band visible above the bluish shade of Earth's shadow, named after the planet Venus which, when visible, is typically located in this region of the sky.\nNo defined line divides the Earth's shadow and the Belt of Venus; one colored band blends into the other in the sky.\n\nThe Belt of Venus is quite a different phenomenon from the afterglow, which appears in the geometrically opposite part of the sky.\n\nWhen the Sun is near the horizon around sunset or sunrise, the sunlight appears reddish. This is because the light rays are penetrating an especially thick layer of the atmosphere, which works as a filter, scattering all but the longer (redder) wavelengths. \n\nFrom the observer's perspective, the red sunlight directly illuminates small particles in the lower atmosphere in the sky opposite of the Sun. The red light is backscattered to the observer, which is the reason why the Belt of Venus appears pink. \n\nThe lower the setting Sun descends, the less defined the boundary between Earth's shadow and the Belt of Venus appears. This is because the setting Sun now illuminates a thinner part of the upper atmosphere. There the red light is not scattered because fewer particles are present, and the eye only sees the \"normal\" (usual) blue sky, which is due to Rayleigh scattering from air molecules. Eventually, both Earth's shadow and the Belt of Venus dissolve into the darkness of the night sky.\n\nEarth's shadow is as curved as the planet is, and its umbra extends into outer space. (The antumbra, however, extends indefinitely.) When the Sun, Earth, and the Moon are aligned perfectly (or nearly so), with Earth between the Sun and the Moon, Earth's shadow falls onto the lunar surface facing the night side of the planet, such that the shadow gradually darkens the full Moon, causing a lunar eclipse. \n\nEven during a total lunar eclipse, a small amount of sunlight however still reaches the Moon. This indirect sunlight has been refracted as it passed through Earth's atmosphere. The air molecules and particulates in Earth's atmosphere scatter the shorter wavelengths of this sunlight; thus, the longer wavelengths of reddish light reaches the Moon, in the same way that light at sunset or sunrise appears reddish. This weak red illumination gives the eclipsed Moon a dimly reddish or copper color.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317311", "title": "El Niño–Southern Oscillation", "text": "El Niño–Southern Oscillation\n\nEl Niño–Southern Oscillation (\"ENSO\") is an irregularly periodic variation in winds and sea surface temperatures over the tropical eastern Pacific Ocean, affecting the climate of much of the tropics and subtropics. The warming phase of the sea temperature is known as \"El Niño\" and the cooling phase as \"La Niña\". The \"Southern Oscillation\" is the accompanying atmospheric component, coupled with the sea temperature change: \"El Niño\" is accompanied by high air surface pressure in the tropical western Pacific and \"La Niña\" with low air surface pressure there. The two periods last several months each (typically occurring every few years) and their effects vary in intensity.\n\nThe two phases relate to the Walker circulation, discovered by Gilbert Walker during the early twentieth century. The Walker circulation is caused by the pressure gradient force that results from a high pressure system over the eastern Pacific Ocean, and a low pressure system over Indonesia. When the Walker circulation weakens or reverses, an \"El Niño\" results, causing the ocean surface to be warmer than average, as upwelling of cold water occurs less or not at all. An especially strong Walker circulation causes a \"La Niña\", resulting in cooler ocean temperatures due to increased upwelling.\n\nMechanisms that cause the oscillation remain under study. The extremes of this climate pattern's oscillations cause extreme weather (such as floods and droughts) in many regions of the world. Developing countries dependent upon agriculture and fishing, particularly those bordering the Pacific Ocean, are the most affected.\n\nThe El Niño–Southern Oscillation is a single climate phenomenon that periodically fluctuates between three phases: Neutral, La Niña or El Niño. La Niña and El Niño are opposite phases that require certain changes to take place in both the ocean and the atmosphere, before an event is declared.\n\nNormally the northward flowing Humboldt Current brings relatively cold water from the Southern Ocean northwards along South America's west coast to the tropics, where it is enhanced by up-welling taking place along the coast of Peru. Along the equator trade winds cause the ocean currents in the eastern Pacific to draw water from the deeper ocean towards the surface, helping to keep the surface cool. Under the influence of the equatorial trade winds, this cold water flows westwards along the equator where it is slowly heated by the sun. As a direct result sea surface temperatures in the western Pacific are generally warmer, by about than those in the Eastern Pacific. This warmer area of ocean is a source for convection and is associated with cloudiness and rainfall. During El Niño years the cold water weakens or disappears completely as the water in the Central and Eastern Pacific becomes as warm as the Western Pacific.\n\nThe Walker circulation is caused by the pressure gradient force that results from a high pressure system over the eastern Pacific Ocean, and a low pressure system over Indonesia. The Walker circulations of the tropical Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic basins result in westerly surface winds in northern summer in the first basin and easterly winds in the second and third basins. As a result, the temperature structure of the three oceans display dramatic asymmetries. The equatorial Pacific and Atlantic both have cool surface temperatures in northern summer in the east, while cooler surface temperatures prevail only in the western Indian Ocean. These changes in surface temperature reflect changes in the depth of the thermocline.\n\nChanges in the Walker circulation with time occur in conjunction with changes in surface temperature. Some of these changes are forced externally, such as the seasonal shift of the sun into the Northern Hemisphere in summer. Other changes appear to be the result of coupled ocean-atmosphere feedback in which, for example, easterly winds cause the sea surface temperature to fall in the east, enhancing the zonal heat contrast and hence intensifying easterly winds across the basin. These anomalous easterlies induce more equatorial upwelling and raise the thermocline in the east, amplifying the initial cooling by the southerlies. This coupled ocean-atmosphere feedback was originally proposed by Bjerknes. From an oceanographic point of view, the equatorial cold tongue is caused by easterly winds. Were the Earth climate symmetric about the equator, cross-equatorial wind would vanish, and the cold tongue would be much weaker and have a very different zonal structure than is observed today.\n\nDuring non-El Niño conditions, the Walker circulation is seen at the surface as easterly trade winds that move water and air warmed by the sun toward the west. This also creates ocean upwelling off the coasts of Peru and Ecuador and brings nutrient-rich cold water to the surface, increasing fishing stocks. The western side of the equatorial Pacific is characterized by warm, wet, low-pressure weather as the collected moisture is dumped in the form of typhoons and thunderstorms. The ocean is some higher in the western Pacific as the result of this motion.\n\nWithin the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the United States, sea surface temperatures in the Niño 3.4 region, which stretches from the 120th to 170th meridians west longitude astride the equator five degrees of latitude on either side, are monitored. This region is approximately to the southeast of Hawaii. The most recent three-month average for the area is computed, and if the region is more than 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) above (or below) normal for that period, then an El Niño (or La Niña) is considered in progress. The United Kingdom's Met Office also uses a several month period to determine ENSO state. When this warming or cooling occurs for only seven to nine months, it is classified as El Niño/La Niña \"conditions\"; when it occurs for more than that period, it is classified as El Niño/La Niña \"episodes\".\n\nIf the temperature variation from climatology is within 0.5 °C (0.9 °F), ENSO conditions are described as neutral. Neutral conditions are the transition between warm and cold phases of ENSO. Ocean temperatures (by definition), tropical precipitation, and wind patterns are near average conditions during this phase. Close to half of all years are within neutral periods. During the neutral ENSO phase, other climate anomalies/patterns such as the sign of the North Atlantic Oscillation or the Pacific–North American teleconnection pattern exert more influence.\n\nWhen the Walker circulation weakens or reverses and the Hadley circulation strengthens an El Niño results, causing the ocean surface to be warmer than average, as upwelling of cold water occurs less or not at all offshore northwestern South America. El Niño (, , ) is associated with a band of warmer than average ocean water temperatures that periodically develops off the Pacific coast of South America. \"El niño\" is Spanish for \"the boy\", and the capitalized term El Niño refers to the Christ child, Jesus, because periodic warming in the Pacific near South America is usually noticed around Christmas. It is a phase of 'El Niño–Southern Oscillation' (ENSO), which refers to variations in the temperature of the surface of the tropical eastern Pacific Ocean and in air surface pressure in the tropical western Pacific. The warm oceanic phase, El Niño, accompanies high air surface pressure in the western Pacific. Mechanisms that cause the oscillation remain under study.\n\nAn especially strong Walker circulation causes a La Niña, resulting in cooler ocean temperatures in the central and eastern tropical Pacific Ocean due to increased upwelling. La Niña (, ) is a coupled ocean-atmosphere phenomenon that is the counterpart of El Niño as part of the broader El Niño Southern Oscillation climate pattern. The name La Niña originates from Spanish, meaning \"the girl\", analogous to El Niño meaning \"the boy\". During a period of La Niña, the sea surface temperature across the equatorial eastern central Pacific will be lower than normal by 3–5 °C. In the United States, an \"appearance\" of La Niña happens for at least five months of La Niña conditions. However, each country and island nation has a different threshold for what constitutes a La Niña event, which is tailored to their specific interests. The Japan Meteorological Agency for example, declares that a La Niña event has started when the average five month sea surface temperature deviation for the NINO.3 region, is over 0.5 °C (0.90 °F) cooler for 6 consecutive months or longer.\n\nTransitional phases at the onset or departure of El Niño or La Niña can also be important factors on global weather by affecting teleconnections. Significant episodes, known as Trans-Niño, are measured by the Trans-Niño index (TNI). Examples of affected short-time climate in North America include precipitation in the Northwest US and intense tornado activity in the contiguous US.\n\nThe Southern Oscillation is the atmospheric component of El Niño. This component is an oscillation in surface air pressure between the tropical eastern and the western Pacific Ocean waters. The strength of the Southern Oscillation is measured by the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI). The SOI is computed from fluctuations in the surface air pressure difference between Tahiti (in the Pacific) and Darwin, Australia (on the Indian Ocean).\n\n\nLow atmospheric pressure tends to occur over warm water and high pressure occurs over cold water, in part because of deep convection over the warm water. El Niño episodes are defined as sustained warming of the central and eastern tropical Pacific Ocean, thus resulting in a decrease in the strength of the Pacific trade winds, and a reduction in rainfall over eastern and northern Australia. La Niña episodes are defined as sustained cooling of the central and eastern tropical Pacific Ocean, thus resulting in an increase in the strength of the Pacific trade winds, and the opposite effects in Australia when compared to El Niño.\n\nAlthough the Southern Oscillation Index has a long station record going back to the 1800s, its reliability is limited due to the presence of both Darwin and Tahiti well south of the Equator, resulting in the surface air pressure at both locations being less directly related to ENSO. To overcome this question, a new index was created, being named Equatorial Southern Oscillation Index (EQSOI). To generate this index data, two new regions, centered on the Equator, were delimited to create a new index: The western one is located over Indonesia and the eastern one is located over equatorial Pacific, close to the South American coast. However, data on EQSOI goes back only to 1949.\n\nThe Madden–Julian oscillation, or (MJO), is the largest element of the intraseasonal (30- to 90-day) variability in the tropical atmosphere, and was discovered by Roland Madden and Paul Julian of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) in 1971. It is a large-scale coupling between atmospheric circulation and tropical deep convection. Rather than being a standing pattern like the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), the MJO is a traveling pattern that propagates eastward at approximately , through the atmosphere above the warm parts of the Indian and Pacific oceans. This overall circulation pattern manifests itself in various ways, most clearly as anomalous rainfall. The wet phase of enhanced convection and precipitation is followed by a dry phase where thunderstorm activity is suppressed. Each cycle lasts approximately 30–60 days. Because of this pattern, The MJO is also known as the \"30- to 60-day oscillation\", \"30- to 60-day wave\", or \"intraseasonal oscillation\".\n\nThere is strong year-to-year (interannual) variability in MJO activity, with long periods of strong activity followed by periods in which the oscillation is weak or absent. This interannual variability of the MJO is partly linked to the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) cycle. In the Pacific, strong MJO activity is often observed 6 – 12 months prior to the onset of an El Niño episode, but is virtually absent during the maxima of some El Niño episodes, while MJO activity is typically greater during a La Niña episode. Strong events in the Madden–Julian oscillation over a series of months in the western Pacific can speed the development of an El Niño or La Niña but usually do not in themselves lead to the onset of a warm or cold ENSO event. However, observations suggest that the 1982–1983 El Niño developed rapidly during July 1982 in direct response to a Kelvin wave triggered by an MJO event during late May. Further, changes in the structure of the MJO with the seasonal cycle and ENSO might facilitate more substantial impacts of the MJO on ENSO. For example, the surface westerly winds associated with active MJO convection are stronger during advancement toward El Niño and the surface easterly winds associated with the suppressed convective phase are stronger during advancement toward La Nina.\n\nDeveloping countries dependent upon agriculture and fishing, particularly those bordering the Pacific Ocean, are the most affected by ENSO. The effects of El Niño in South America are direct and strong. An El Niño is associated with warm and very wet weather months in April–October along the coasts of northern Peru and Ecuador, causing major flooding whenever the event is strong or extreme. La Niña causes a drop in sea surface temperatures over Southeast Asia and heavy rains over Malaysia, the Philippines, and Indonesia.\n\nTo the north across Alaska, La Niña events lead to drier than normal conditions, while El Niño events do not have a correlation towards dry or wet conditions. During El Niño events, increased precipitation is expected in California due to a more southerly, zonal, storm track. During La Niña, increased precipitation is diverted into the Pacific Northwest due to a more northerly storm track. During La Niña events, the storm track shifts far enough northward to bring wetter than normal winter conditions (in the form of increased snowfall) to the Midwestern states, as well as hot and dry summers. During the El Niño portion of ENSO, increased precipitation falls along the Gulf coast and Southeast due to a stronger than normal, and more southerly, polar jet stream. In the late winter and spring during El Niño events, drier than average conditions can be expected in Hawaii. On Guam during El Niño years, dry season precipitation averages below normal. However, the threat of a tropical cyclone is over triple what is normal during El Niño years, so extreme shorter duration rainfall events are possible. On American Samoa during El Niño events, precipitation averages about 10 percent above normal, while La Niña events lead to precipitation amounts which average close to 10 percent below normal. ENSO is linked to rainfall over Puerto Rico. During an El Niño, snowfall is greater than average across the southern Rockies and Sierra Nevada mountain range, and is well-below normal across the Upper Midwest and Great Lakes states. During a La Niña, snowfall is above normal across the Pacific Northwest and western Great Lakes.\n\nThe synoptic condition for the Tehuantepecer, a violent mountain-gap wind in between the mountains of Mexico and Guatemala, is associated with high-pressure system forming in Sierra Madre of Mexico in the wake of an advancing cold front, which causes winds to accelerate through the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Tehuantepecers primarily occur during the cold season months for the region in the wake of cold fronts, between October and February, with a summer maximum in July caused by the westward extension of the Azores-Bermuda high pressure system. Wind magnitude is greater during El Niño years than during La Niña years, due to the more frequent cold frontal incursions during El Niño winters. Tehuantepec winds reach to , and on rare occasions . The wind’s direction is from the north to north-northeast. It leads to a localized acceleration of the trade winds in the region, and can enhance thunderstorm activity when it interacts with the Intertropical Convergence Zone. The effects can last from a few hours to six days.\n\nEl Niño events cause short-term (approximately 1 year in length) spikes in global average surface temperature while La Niña events cause short term cooling. Therefore, the relative frequency of El Niño compared to La Niña events can affect global temperature trends on decadal timescales. Over the last several decades, the number of El Niño events increased, and the number of La Niña events decreased, although observation of ENSO for much longer is needed to detect robust changes.\n\nThe studies of historical data show the recent El Niño variation is most likely linked to global warming. For example, one of the most recent results, even after subtracting the positive influence of decadal variation, is shown to be possibly present in the ENSO trend, the amplitude of the ENSO variability in the observed data still increases, by as much as 60% in the last 50 years.\n\nFuture trends in ENSO are uncertain as different models make different predictions. It may be that the observed phenomenon of more frequent and stronger El Niño events occurs only in the initial phase of the global warming, and then (e.g., after the lower layers of the ocean get warmer, as well), El Niño will become weaker. It may also be that the stabilizing and destabilizing forces influencing the phenomenon will eventually compensate for each other. More research is needed to provide a better answer to that question. The ENSO is considered to be a potential tipping element in Earth's climate and, under the global warming, can enhance or alternate regional climate extreme events through a strengthened teleconnection. For example, an increase in the frequency and magnitude of El Niño events have triggered warmer than usual temperatures over the Indian Ocean, by modulating the Walker circulation. This has resulted in a rapid warming of the Indian Ocean, and consequently a weakening of the Asian Monsoon.\n\nFollowing the El Nino event in 1997 – 1998, the Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory attributes the first large-scale coral bleaching event to the warming waters.\n\nBased on modeled and observed Accumulated Cyclone Energy (ACE), El Niño years usually result in less active hurricane seasons in the Atlantic Ocean, but instead favor a shift of tropical cyclone activity in the Pacific Ocean, compared to La Niña years favoring above average hurricane development in the Atlantic and less so in the Pacific basin.\n\nThe traditional ENSO (El Niño Southern Oscillation), also called Eastern Pacific (EP) ENSO, involves temperature anomalies in the eastern Pacific. However, in the 1990s and 2000s, nontraditional ENSO conditions were observed, in which the usual place of the temperature anomaly (Niño 1 and 2) is not affected, but an anomaly arises in the central Pacific (Niño 3.4). The phenomenon is called Central Pacific (CP) ENSO, \"dateline\" ENSO (because the anomaly arises near the dateline), or ENSO \"Modoki\" (Modoki is Japanese for \"similar, but different\"). There are flavors of ENSO additional to EP and CP types and some scientists argue that ENSO exists as a continuum often with hybrid types.\n\nThe effects of the CP ENSO are different from those of the traditional EP ENSO. The El Niño Modoki leads to more hurricanes more frequently making landfall in the Atlantic. La Niña Modoki leads to a rainfall increase over northwestern Australia and northern Murray–Darling basin, rather than over the east as in a conventional La Niña. Also, La Niña Modoki increases the frequency of cyclonic storms over Bay of Bengal, but decreases the occurrence of severe storms in the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe recent discovery of ENSO Modoki has some scientists believing it to be linked to global warming. However, comprehensive satellite data go back only to 1979. More research must be done to find the correlation and study past El Niño episodes.\nMore generally, there is no scientific consensus on how/if climate change might affect ENSO.\n\nThere is also a scientific debate on the very existence of this \"new\" ENSO. Indeed, a number of studies dispute the reality of this statistical distinction or its increasing occurrence, or both, either arguing the reliable record is too short to detect such a distinction, finding no distinction or trend using other statistical approaches, or that other types should be distinguished, such as standard and extreme ENSO. Following the asymmetric nature of the warm and cold phases of ENSO, some studies could not identify such distinctions for La Niña, both in observations and in the climate models, but some sources indicate that there is a variation on La Niña with cooler waters on central Pacific and average or warmer water temperatures on both eastern and western Pacific, also showing eastern Pacific Ocean currents going to the opposite direction compared to the currents in traditional La Niñas.\n\nIn recent years it was realized that network tools can be useful to identify and better understand large climate events such as El-Niño or monsoon. Moreover, some indications have been suggested that climate networks can be used for forecasting El-Niño with accuracy 3/4 about one year in advance, and even forecasting the magnitude. Also, a climate network has been applied to study the global impacts of El Niño and La Niña. The climate network enables the identification of the regions that are most drastically affected by specific El Niño/La Niña events.\n\nDifferent modes of ENSO-like events have been registered in paleoclimatic archives, showing different triggering methods, feedbacks and environmental responses to the geological, atmospheric and oceanographic characteristics of the time. These paleorecords can be used to provide a qualitative basis for conservation practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "33530576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33530576", "title": "Endangered plants of Europe", "text": "Endangered plants of Europe\n\n<br>\nThe list below contains plants that dwell in or migrate to any region in Europe and any nearby islands of the Atlantic Ocean. This includes plants that are found in the East Atlantic Ocean (Azores), Iceland, the Adriatic Sea, the Sea of Azov, the Black and Caspian Sea, Corsica, Cyprus, Palearctic, Russia, Eurasia, North African Coast, the Mediterranean Sea and islands located in the Mediterranean Sea, and the islands of Spain (Canary, Balearic). Twenty-one percent of Europe's vascular plant species (flowering plants, conifers and ferns) are classified as threatened, according to the IUCN. The list below was compiled from data on the IUCN Red List of Endangered Species (IUCN). The International Union for Conservation of Nature identifies species in need of attention before approaching extinction and works to increase prevention of extinction. The list below includes vulnerable (VU), endangered (EN), critically endangered (CR), and recently extinct (EX) species.\n\nPropragation has been conducted using in vitro techniques in facilities across the country. This method of conservation is used in parts of the world to preserve plants for as long as possible. In vitro propagation has allowed material\nto be kept in in vitro gene banks, and this will expand with\ndeeper developments in cryopreservation technology.\nAn increasing number of botanic gardens now have in vitro facilities,\nand information on techniques is distributed between these in\naddition to cultures. \n\n"}
{"id": "16173391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16173391", "title": "GMA Life TV", "text": "GMA Life TV\n\nGMA Life TV, is a Filipino Channel incorporated in February 2008 by GMA Network, is an international Filipino television channel, and the company's secondary international channel to GMA Pinoy TV.\n\nThe programming of GMA Pinoy TV consists mostly of shows from the Philippines from GMA Network and GMA News TV as well as previously aired shows, documentaries, films, and sports events from the Philippines. The delay of GMA Pinoy TV's and GMA Life TV's dramas all air on one-episode delay basis. Most weekend shows are up to date, with the exception of some shows that air on a one-episode delay basis.\n\nThis secondary channel carries programming from GMA News TV in the Philippines and some GMA Network proper's programming.\n\nIt was launched 16 February 2008 in Japan and is available in the Middle East, North Africa, and Southern Europe through Orbit Showtime.\n\nIn June 2008 it was launched in Australia and New Zealand on UBI World TV. It is now also available in the whole United States via Dish Network and DirecTV.\n\nOn 2 November 2009, it was launched in Hawaii via Oceanic Time Warner Cable on 'a la carte' basis or packaged with another Tagalog station (GMA Pinoy TV or other channels) for Digital Cable subscribers and GMA Life TV also available via Time Warner Cable in the United States.\n\nIn September 2010, GMA Life TV has 122,000 subscribers while its sister channel, GMA Pinoy TV has a total of 256,000 subscribers. This is based on a report that the Corporate Communications Department of GMA Network has posted.\n\nRecently, as of 3rd Quarter of 2010, GMA Life TV has around 126,000 subscribers. The number of subscribers began to substantially increase when the channel was launched during the early part of this year in other areas such us Florida (via Brighhouse Tampa), Texas (via En-Touch), Hong Kong (via PCCW), and Central California (via Comcast).\n\nBy 2011, GMA Life TV will air re-runs of previous GMA shows as QTV will be re-formatted into GMA News TV. GMA News TV will also be available in the worldwide market.\n\nThis did occur from 20 February 2011 onward, the decision was to run movies temporarily in place of the previously aired programs from the now-ceased QTV.\n\nOn 28 February 2011 for the first time in GMA Worldwide, Inc. history, two programs that started airing on GMA Pinoy TV that is still running with new episodes was switched over to GMA Life TV, where it will then air its new episodes, to occupy free time slots. This then led to replays of other Kapuso shows. The shows included Pinoy MD and Love ni Mister, Love ni Misis. All this will be straightened out once GMA News TV starts its international operations sometime 2nd to 3rd Quarter of 2011.\n\nIn a report published showing GMA Network's revenues for 2010 with a total of PhP 14.299 Billion, GMA Life TV has 125,000 subscribers (an estimated 800,000 viewers count) while GMA Pinoy TV has an accounted 273,000 subscribers (around 1.8 Million viewers).\n\nOn 10 March 2011 GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV expanded even more in the United States in Florida. The Florida counties that are part of the extension include Brevard, Flagler, Lake, Marion, Orange, Osceola, Seminole, Sumter and Volusia.\n\nIn a recent report, dated 16 May 2011, regarding the consolidated gross revenues of GMA Network, Inc. in the first quarter of 2011, it is noted that GMA Pinoy TV's subscriptions grew by 10 percent (approximately 300,000 subscribers) and GMA Life TV's subscriptions grew by 2 percent (approximately 128,000), respectively. This consisted of PhP 230 million worth of advertising and subscription revenues.\n\nAnd in May/June 2011, GMA Pinoy TV/GMA Life TV sent many of its artists to various places worldwide, it's the first time that Kapuso artists were sent almost consecutively, to celebrate Philippine Independence Day/Filipino Culture Fiestas and to promote GMA Pinoy TV/GMA Life TV and its shows. They consisted of Iza Calzado & Dennis Trillo who went to Hawaii on 7 May 2011, then on 28 May 2011, Jolina Magdangal and JayR visited National City in San Diego, CA. On the 113th Philippine Independence Day proper, Dennis Trillo & Iza Calzado were sent this time to Hong Kong to represent GMA Pinoy TV and perform there and in Singapore, Dingdong Dantes and Rachel Ann Go were present. And on 26 June 2011, Aljur Abrenica, Jennylyn Mercado, Iza Calzado and Mark Bautista will be sent to be part of Philippine-American Friendship Day in Jersey City, New Jersey.\n\nIn another recent report with regards to GMA Network's consolidated revenues in the 2nd quarter of 2011, GMA Pinoy TV's subscribers grew to 279,000 from 274,000 (actual count) and an estimated amount of 1.85 million viewers and GMA Life TV's subscribers grew as well, an estimated 1 million viewers. Also, GMA Network recently launched GMA News TV in the past month and will be made available to all areas where GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV reaches by 3rd Quarter of 2011. GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV were further made to subscribers in key Filipino-American areas in the US, namely New Jersey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Maryland and Washington DC. They were also launched in many parts of Detroit, Hawaii and upstate New York and New England. The channels were also launched by additional carriers in Australia and Papua New Guinea.\n\nOn 22 September 2011, GMA Life TV will air two previously-aired GMA programs dubbed in English, they are Una Kang Naging Akin to be renamed in English as \"When You Were Mine\" and Impostora to be renamed \"Impostor\". This is the first time that GMA's dramas will be dubbed and re-aired in English.\n\nIn a press statement released by GMA Network, Inc., it is stated that GMA Life TV, as of 1st Quarter of 2012, has approximately 117,000 subscribers, which amounts to nearly 1.2 million viewers.\n\nFor the first time in GMA history, Idol sa Kusina, a program originally aired on QTV then GMA News TV and is simulcasted on GMA Life TV moves to GMA Pinoy TV on 14 July 2012.\n\nSingTel mio TV will launch this channel with effect from 14 June 2013 at 00:00 hrs SST.\n\nOn 22 December 2013 GMA Life TV started airing its first Tagalog-dubbed Koreanovela, Full House, followed by A Rosy Life on 20 January 2014.\n\nOn 13 March 2014 GMA Life TV began airing its third Tagalog-dubbed Koreanovela Sassy Girl, followed by Cruel Love on 7 April 2014 and Dal-ja's Spring on 14 April 2014.\n\nBasta Every Day, Happy! was supposed to premiere on 12 May 2014 (in some territories like the US on the evening of 11 May 2014) and air throughout its entire duration on GMA Pinoy TV but the programming department of GMA International, GMA's international subsidiary, decided to move the show over to GMA Life TV as it adheres more to GMA Life TV's overall theme as a lifestyle channel as well as the show is a replacement for , so the programming department had seen that the move was done rightfully so. On 30 June 2014, A Rosy Life re-airs for the second time on GMA Life TV, followed by the second re-run of Sassy Girl on 22 September 2014 and Cruel Love on 17 November 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4600323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4600323", "title": "Guinean forest-savanna mosaic", "text": "Guinean forest-savanna mosaic\n\nThe Guinean forest-savanna mosaic is an ecoregion of West Africa, a band of interlaced forest, savanna, and grassland running east to west and dividing the tropical moist forests near the coast from the West Sudanian savanna of the interior.\n\nThe Guinean forest-savanna mosaic covers an area of , extending from western Senegal to eastern Nigeria, and including portions of Gambia, Guinea Bissau, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, and Benin. The Cameroon Highlands of eastern Nigeria and Cameroon separate the Guinean forest-savanna mosaic from the Northern Congolian forest-savanna mosaic, which lies to the east. The Dahomey Gap is a region of Togo and Benin where the forest-savanna mosaic extends to the coast, and separates the Upper Guinean forests of Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, and Ghana from the Lower Guinean forests of Nigeria and Cameroon.\n\nThis region is mainly grassland crossed with trees growing alongside streams and on hillsides, with the constantly occurring fires keeping back the growth of trees in open country. Lophira laceolata is a tree that is more resistant to fire.\n\nThe mixture of forest and grassland provide habitat for a range of species from large mammals such as African leopard, forest elephants, hippopotamus and antelopes such as the red-flanked duiker to the common tortoise as well as more localised species including patas monkeys and Ghana worm lizards (\"Amphisbaenia\").\n\nThe wetlands in the region are rich in birdlife, including iris glossy starling and black crowned crane.\n\nThe ecoregion covers large areas of many West African nations including:\n\nThis area has been populated by humans for millennia and very little of it is formally protected. Parks include Outamba-Kilimi National Park in Sierra Leone.\n"}
{"id": "2839772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839772", "title": "Hanlu", "text": "Hanlu\n\nThe traditional East Asian calendars divide a year into 24 solar terms (節氣). Hánlù, \"Kanro\", \"Hallo\", or \"Hàn lộ\" () is the 17th solar term. It begins when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 195° and ends when it reaches the longitude of 210°. It more often refers in particular to the day when the Sun is exactly at the celestial longitude of 195°. In the Gregorian calendar, it usually begins around October 8 and ends around October 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "7685906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7685906", "title": "Herefordshire Pomona", "text": "Herefordshire Pomona\n\nThe Herefordshire Pomona is a 19th-century catalogue of the apples and pears that were grown in the county of Herefordshire in England. It was one of the first attempts to fully catalogue the existing varieties of English fruit and has been called \"a classic of late Victorian natural history\". Only 600 copies were ever printed and originals now fetch high prices whenever they are sold.\n\nOver a period of about ten years in the late 19th century, the Pomona Committee of the Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club of Hereford held an annual autumn show featuring the local varieties of apples and pears. The club members were worried that although Herefordshire was famous for its orchards \"it was very remarkable that so few of the best varieties of apples should appear in the markets, or the fruit shops\". At the behest of the committee, Dr Robert Hogg, at the time Vice-President of the Royal Horticultural Society, author of \"The Fruit Manual\", and editor of the \"RHS Journal\"; and local doctor and former president of the Woolhope club, Dr Henry Graves Bull, catalogued and described the fruit displayed at the shows. The descriptions were painstakingly illustrated over a period of eight years by Alice Blanche Ellis and Edith Elizabeth Bull, Robert's daughter.\n\nThe book originally appeared in seven issues, the first part appearing in 1878 and the last in 1884, and included the 441 original watercolours produced by Alice and Edith of the different fruits, buds, blossoms of the cultivars and the blights which attacked them. The hand-coloured lithographs were done by the Belgian firm of G. Severeyns. Once complete the seven parts were collected together and published by Jakeman & Carver as \"The Herefordshire Pomona Containing Original Figures and Descriptions of the Most Esteemed Kinds of Apples and Pears\". 600 copies were published with pebbled green covers, raised bands and gilt decorative panels. They have become highly sought after and originals can command prices of over £10,000, although the information is now available on CD at a fraction of the price.\n"}
{"id": "77944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77944", "title": "Hesperides", "text": "Hesperides\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Hesperides (; Ancient Greek: Ἑσπερίδες ) are the nymphs of evening and golden light of sunsets, who were the \"Daughters of the Evening\" or \"Nymphs of the West\". They were also called the Atlantides (Ἀτλαντίδων) from their reputed father, the Titan Atlas.\n\nThe name means \"originating from Hesperos\" (evening). \"Hesperos\", or \"Vesper\" in Latin, is the origin of the name Hesperus, the evening star (i.e. the planet Venus) as well as having a shared root with the English word \"west\".\n\nOrdinarily the Hesperides number three, like the other Greek triads (the Three Graces and the Moirai). \"Since the Hesperides themselves are mere symbols of the gifts the apples embody, they cannot be actors in a human drama. Their abstract, interchangeable names are a symptom of their impersonality,\" Evelyn Harrison has observed.\n\nThey are sometimes portrayed as the evening daughters of Night (Nyx) either alone, or with Darkness (Erebus), in accord with the way Eos in the farthermost east, in Colchis, is the daughter of the titan Hyperion. The Hesperides are also listed as the daughters of Atlas and Hesperis, or of Phorcys and Ceto or of Zeus and Themis. In another source, the nymphs are said to be the daughters of Hesperus.\nNevertheless, among the names given to them, though never all at once, there were either three, four, or seven Hesperides. Apollonius of Rhodes gives the number of three with their names as Aigle, Erytheis and Hespere (or Hespera). Hyginus in his preface to the \"Fabulae\" names them as Aegle, Hesperie and *aerica. In another source, they are named Ægle, Arethusa and Hesperethusa, the three daughters of Hesperus. Hesiod says that these \"clear-voiced Hesperides\", daughters of Night, guarded the golden apples beyond Ocean in the far west of the world, gives the number of the Hesperides as four, and their names as: Aigle (or Aegle, \"dazzling light\"), Erytheia (or Erytheis), Hesperia (\"sunset glow\") whose name refers to the colour of the setting sun: red, yellow, or gold and lastly Arethusa. In addition, Hesperia and Arethusa, the so-called \"ox-eyed Hesperethusa.\" Pseudo-Apollodorus gives the number of the Hesperides also as four, namely: Aigle, Erytheia, Hesperia (or Hesperie) and Arethusa while Fulgentius named them as Aegle, Hesperie, Medusa and Arethusa. However, the historiographer Diodorus in his account stated that they are seven in number with no information of their names. An ancient vase painting attests the following names as four: Asterope, Chrysothemis, Hygieia and Lipara; on another seven names as Aiopis, Antheia, Donakis, Kalypso, Mermesa, Nelisa and Tara. A Pyxis has Hippolyte, Mapsaura, and Thetis. Petrus Apianus attributed to these stars a mythical connection of their own. He believed that they were the seven Hesperides, nymph daughters of Atlas and Hesperis. Their names were: Aegle, Erythea, Arethusa, Hestia, Hespera, Hesperusa and Hespereia. A certain Crete, possible eponym of the island of Crete was also called one of the Hesperides. \n\nThey are sometimes called the Western Maidens, the Daughters of Evening or \"Erythrai\", and the \"Sunset Goddesses\", designations all apparently tied to their imagined location in the distant west. Hesperis is appropriately the personification of the evening (as Eos is of the dawn) and the Evening Star is Hesperus. \n\nIn addition to their tending of the garden, they have taken great pleasure in singing. Euripides calls them \"minstrel maids\" as they possess the power of sweet song. The Hesperides could be hamadryad nymphs or epimeliads as suggested by a passage in which they change into trees: \"..Hespere became a poplar and Eretheis an elm, and Aegle a willow's sacred trunk..\" and in the same account, they are described figuratively or literally to have white arms and golden heads. \n\nErytheia (\"the red one\") is one of the Hesperides. The name was applied to an island close to the coast of southern Hispania, which was the site of the original Punic colony of Gades (modern Cadiz). Pliny's Natural History (VI.36) records of the island of Gades: \"On the side which looks towards Spain, at about 100 paces distance, is another long island, three miles wide, on which the original city of Gades stood. By Ephorus and Philistides it is called Erythia, by Timæus and Silenus Aphrodisias, and by the natives the Isle of Juno.\" The island was the seat of Geryon, who was overcome by Heracles.\nThe Hesperides tend a blissful garden in a far western corner of the world, located near the Atlas mountains in North Africa at the edge of the encircling Oceanus, the world-ocean.\n\nAccording to the Sicilian Greek poet Stesichorus, in his poem the \"Song of Geryon\", and the Greek geographer Strabo, in his book \"Geographika\" (volume III), the garden of the Hesperides is located in Tartessos, a location placed in the south of the Iberian peninsula.\n\nEuesperides (in modern-day Benghazi) which was probably founded by people from Cyrene or Barca might have mythological associations with the garden of Hesperides.\n\nBy Ancient Roman times, the garden of the Hesperides had lost its archaic place in religion and had dwindled to a poetic convention, in which form it was revived in Renaissance poetry, to refer both to the garden and to the nymphs that dwelt there.\n\nThe Garden of the Hesperides is Hera's orchard in the west, where either a single apple tree or a grove grows, producing golden apples. According to the legend, when the marriage of Zeus and Hera took place, the different deities came with nuptial presents for the latter, and among them the goddess of Gaia, with branches having golden apples growing on them as a wedding gift. Hera, greatly admiring these, begged of Gaea to plant them in her gardens, which extended as far as Mount Atlas.\n\nThe Hesperides were given the task of tending to the grove, but occasionally picked apples from it themselves. Not trusting them, Hera also placed in the garden an immortal, never-sleeping, hundred-headed dragon named Ladon as an additional safeguard. In the myth of the Judgement of Paris, it was from the Garden that Eris, Goddess of Discord, obtained the Apple of Discord, which led to the Trojan War.\n\nIn later years it was thought that the \"golden apples\" might have actually been oranges, a fruit unknown to Europe and the Mediterranean before the Middle Ages. Under this assumption, the Greek botanical name chosen for all citrus species was \"Hesperidoeidē\" (Ἑσπεριδοειδῆ, \"hesperidoids\") and even today the Greek word for the orange fruit is πορτοκάλι (Portokáli)--after the country of Portugal in Iberia near where the Garden of the Hesperides grew.\n\nAfter Heracles completed his first ten Labours, Eurystheus gave him two more claiming that neither the Hydra counted (because Iolaus helped Heracles) nor the Augean stables (either because he received payment for the job or because the rivers did the work). The first of these two additional Labours was to steal the apples from the garden of the Hesperides. Heracles first caught the Old Man of the Sea, the shape-shifting sea god, to learn where the Garden of the Hesperides was located. In some versions of the tale, Heracles come to Caucasus, where the Prometheus was confined. The Titan directed him concerning his course through the land of the peoples in the farthest north and the perils to be encountered on his homeward march after slaying Geryon in the farthest west.\"‘Follow this straight road; and, first of all, thou shalt come to the Boreades, where do thou beware the roaring hurricane, lest unawares it twist thee up and snatch thee away in wintry whirlwind.’\"\"As payment, Heracles freed Prometheus from his daily torture. This tale is more usually found in the position of the Erymanthian Boar, since it is associated with Chiron choosing to forgo immortality and taking Prometheus' place.\n\nOther story recounts, Heracles, either at the start or at the end of his task, meets Antaeus, who was immortal as long as he touched his mother, Gaia, the earth. Heracles killed Antaeus by holding him aloft and crushing him in a bearhug. Herodotus claims that Heracles stopped in Egypt, where King Busiris decided to make him the yearly sacrifice, but Heracles burst out of his chains.\n\nFinally making his way to the Garden of the Hesperides, Heracles tricked Atlas into retrieving some of the golden apples for him, by offering to hold up the heavens for a little while (Atlas was able to take them as, in this version, he was the father or otherwise related to the Hesperides). This would have made this task – like the Hydra and Augean stables – void because he had received help. Upon his return, Atlas decided that he did not want to take the heavens back, and instead offered to deliver the apples himself, but Heracles tricked him again by agreeing to take his place on condition that Atlas relieve him temporarily so that Heracles could make his cloak more comfortable. Atlas agreed, but Heracles reneged and walked away, carrying the apples. According to an alternative version, Heracles slew Ladon instead and stole the apples.\n\nThere is another variation to the story where Heracles was the only person to steal the apples, other than Perseus, although Athena later returned the apples to their rightful place in the garden. They are considered by some to be the same \"apples of joy\" that tempted Atalanta, as opposed to the \"apple of discord\" used by Eris to start a beauty contest on Olympus (which caused \"The Siege of Troy\").\n\nOn Attic pottery, especially from the late fifth century, Heracles is depicted sitting in bliss in the Gardens of the Hesperides, attended by the maidens.\n\nAfter the hero Heracles killed Ladon and stole the golden apples, the Argonauts during their journey, came to the Hesperian plain the next day. The band of heroes, asked for the mercy of the Hesperides to guide them to a source of water in order to replenish their thirst. The goddesses pitying the young men, directed them to a spring created by Heracles who likewise longing for a draught while wandering the land, smote a rock near Lake Triton after which the water gushed out. The following passage recounts this meeting of the Argonauts and the nymphs:\"Then, like raging hounds, they [i.e. Argonauts] rushed to search for a spring; for besides their suffering and anguish, a parching thirst lay upon them, and not in vain did they wander; but they came to the sacred plain where Ladon, the serpent of the land, till yesterday kept watch over the golden apples in the garden of Atlas; and all around the nymphs, the Hesperides, were busied, chanting their lovely song. But at that time, stricken by Heracles, he lay fallen by the trunk of the apple-tree; only the tip of his tail was still writhing; but from his head down his dark spine he lay lifeless; and where the arrows had left in his blood the bitter gall of the Lernaean hydra, flies withered and died over the festering wounds. And close at hand the Hesperides, their white arms flung over their golden heads, lamented shrilly; and the heroes drew near suddenly; but the maidens, at their quick approach, at once became dust and earth where they stood. Orpheus marked the divine portent, and for his comrades addressed them in prayer: \"O divine ones, fair and kind, be gracious, O queens, whether ye be numbered among the heavenly goddesses, or those beneath the earth, or be called the Solitary nymphs; come, O nymphs, sacred race of Oceanus, appear manifest to our longing eyes and show us some spring of water from the rock or some sacred flow gushing from the earth, goddesses, wherewith we may quench the thirst that burns us unceasingly. And if ever again we return in our voyaging to the Achaean land, then to you among the first of goddesses with willing hearts will we bring countless gifts, libations and banquets.\"\"\"So he spake, beseeching them with plaintive voice; and they from their station near pitied their pain; and lo! First of all they caused grass to spring from the earth; and above the grass rose up tall shoots, and then flourishing saplings grew standing upright far above the earth. Hespere became a poplar and Eretheis an elm, and Aegle a willow's sacred trunk. And forth from these trees their forms looked out, as clear as they were before, a marvel exceeding great, and Aegle spake with gentle words answering their longing looks: \"Surely there has come hither a mighty succour to your toils, that most accursed man, who robbed our guardian serpent of life and plucked the golden apples of the goddesses and is gone; and has left bitter grief for us. For yesterday came a man most fell in wanton violence, most grim in form; and his eyes flashed beneath his scowling brow; a ruthless wretch; and he was clad in the skin of a monstrous lion of raw hide, untanned; and he bare a sturdy bow of olive, and a bow, wherewith he shot and killed this monster here. So he too came, as one traversing the land on foot, parched with thirst; and he rushed wildly through this spot, searching for water, but nowhere was he like to see it. Now here stood a rock near the Tritonian lake; and of his own device, or by the prompting of some god, he smote it below with his foot; and the water gushed out in full flow. And he, leaning both his hands and chest upon the ground, drank a huge draught from the rifted rock, until, stooping like a beast of the field, he had satisfied his mighty maw.\"\"\"Thus she spake; and they gladly with joyful steps ran to the spot where Aegle had pointed out to them the spring, until they reached it. And as when earth-burrowing ants gather in swarms round a narrow cleft, or when flies lighting upon a tiny drop of sweet honey cluster round with insatiate eagerness; so at that time, huddled together, the Minyae thronged about the spring from the rock. And thus with wet lips one cried to another in his delight: \"Strange! In very truth Heracles, though far away, has saved his comrades, fordone with thirst. Would that we might find him on his way as we pass through the mainland!\"\"\nAccording to Diodorus' account, the Hesperides did not have the golden apples instead they possessed flocks of sheep which excelled in beauty and were therefore called for their beauty, as the poets might do, \"golden apples,\" just as Aphroditê is called \"golden\" because of her loveliness. Others also say that it was because the sheep had a peculiar colour like gold that they got this designation, and that Dracon (\"dragon\") was the name of the shepherd of the sheep, a man who excelled in strength of body and courage, who guarded the sheep and slew any who might dare to carry them off.\n\nThe same source added a different tale about Atlas, the Hesperides and Heracles:\"\"In the country known as Hesperitis there were two brothers whose fame was known abroad, Hesperus and Atlas. These brothers possessed flocks of sheep which excelled in beauty and were in colour of a golden yellow, this being the reason why the poets, in speaking of these sheep as mela, called them golden mela.\" \"Now Hesperus begat a daughter named Hesperis, whom he gave in marriage to his brother and after whom the land was given the name Hesperitis; and Atlas begat by her seven daughters, who were named after their father Atlantides, and after their mother, Hesperides. And since these Atlantides excelled in beauty and chastity, Busiris the king of the Egyptians, the account says, was seized with desire to get the maidens into his power; and consequently he dispatched pirates by sea with orders to seize the girls and deliver them into his hands.\"\"About this time Heracles, while engaged in the performance of his last Labour, slew in Libya Antaeus, who was compelling all strangers to wrestle with him, and upon Busiris in Egypt, who was sacrificing to Zeus the strangers who visited his country, he inflicted the punishment which he deserved... Meanwhile the pirates had seized the girls while they were playing in a certain garden and carried them off, and fleeing swiftly to their ships had sailed away with them. Heracles came upon the pirates as they were taking their meal on a certain strand, and learning from the maidens what had taken place he slew the pirates to a man and brought the girls back to Atlas their father; and in return Atlas was so grateful to Heracles for his kindly deed that he not only gladly gave him such assistance as his Labour called for, but he also instructed him quite freely in the knowledge of astrology. For Atlas had worked out the science of astrology to a degree surpassing others and had ingeniously discovered the spherical nature of the stars, and for that reason was generally believed to be bearing the entire firmament upon his shoulders. Similarly in the case of Heracles, when he had brought to the Greeks the doctrine of the sphere, he gained great fame, as if he had taken over the burden of the firmament which Atlas had borne, since men intimated in this enigmatic way what had actually taken place.\"\"\n\nWith the revival of classical allusions in the Renaissance, the Hesperides returned to their prominent position, and the garden itself took on the name of its nymphs: Robert Greene wrote of \"The fearful Dragon... that watched the garden called Hesperides\". Shakespeare inserted the comically insistent rhyme \"is not Love a Hercules, Still climbing trees in the Hesperides\" in \"Love's Labours Lost\" (iv.iii) and John Milton mentioned the \"ladies of the Hesperides\" in \"Paradise Regained\" (ii.357).\n\"Hesperides\" (published 1647) was the title of a collection of pastoral and religious verse by the Royalist poet Robert Herrick.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3056687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3056687", "title": "Hydrosere", "text": "Hydrosere\n\nA hydrosere is a plant succession which occurs in an area of fresh water such as in oxbow lakes and kettle lakes. In time, an area of open freshwater will naturally dry out, ultimately becoming woodland. During this change, a range of different landtypes such as swamp and marsh will succeed each other.\nThe succession from open water to climax woodland takes centuries or millennia. Some intermediate stages will last a shorter time than others. For example, swamp may change to marsh within a decade or less. How long it takes will depend largely on the amount of siltation occurring in the area of open water.\n\nHydrosere is the primary succession sequence which develops in aquatic environments such as lakes and ponds. It results in conversion of water body and its community into a land community. The early changes are allogenic as inorganic particles such as sand and clay are washed from catchment areas and begin filling the basin of the water body. Later, remains of dead plants also fill up these bodies and contribute to further changes in the environment.\n\nIf water body is large and very deep, a strong wave action is at work, therefore in these bodies a noticeable change cannot easily be observed. However, in smaller water body such as a pond the succession is easily recognizable. Different plant communities occupy different zones in a water body and exhibit concentric zonation. The edges of the water body are occupied by rooted species, submerged species are found in the littoral zone and plankton and floating species occupy the open water zone.\n\nUnicellular floating algal plants such as diatoms are pioneer species of a bare water body, such as a pond. Their spores are carried by air to the pond. The phytoplankton are followed by zooplankton. They settle down to the bottom of the pond after death, and decay into humus that mixes with silt and clay particles brought into the basin by run off water and wave action and form soil. As soil builds up, the pond becomes shallower and further environmental changes follow.\n\nAs the water body becomes shallower, more submerged rooted species are able to become established due to increasing light penetration in the shallower water. This is suitable for growth of rooted submerged species such as \"Myriophyllum\", \"Vallisneria\", \"Elodea\", \"Hydrilla\", and \"Ceratophyllum\". These plants root themselves in mud. Once submerged species colonize the successional changes are more rapid and are mainly autogenic as organic matter accumulates. Inorganic sediment is still entering the lake and is trapped more quickly by the net of plant roots and rhizomes growing on the pond floor. The pond becomes sufficiently shallow (2–5 ft) for floating species and less suitable for rooted submerged plants.\n\nThe floating plants are rooted in the mud, but some or all their leaves float on the surface of the water. These include species like \"Nymphaea\", \"Nelumbo\" and \"Potamogeton\". Some free-floating species also become associated with root plants. The large and broad leaves of floating plants shade the water surface and conditions become unsuitable for growth of submerged species which start disappearing. The plants decay to form organic mud which makes the pond more shallow yet (1–3 ft).\n\nThe pond is now invaded by emergent plants such as \"Phragmites\" (reed-grasses), \"Typha\" (cattail), and \"Zizania\" (wild rice) to form a reed-swamp (in North American usage, this habitat is called a marsh). These plants have creeping rhizomes which knit the mud together to produce large quantities of leaf litter. This litter is resistant to decay and reed peat builds up, accelerating the autogenic change. The surface of the pond is converted into water-saturated marshy land.\n\nSuccessive decreases in water level and changes in substratum help members of \"Cyperaceae\" and \"Graminae\" such as \"Carex\" spp. and \"Juncus\" to establish themselves. They form a mat of vegetation extending towards the centre of the pond. Their rhizomes knit the soil further. The above water leaves transpire water to lower the water level further and add additional leaf litter to the soil. Eventually the sedge peat accumulates above the water level and soil is no longer totally waterlogged. The habitat becomes suitable for invasion of herbs (secondary species) such as \"Mentha\", \"Caltha\", \"iris\", and \"Galium\" which grow luxuriantly and bring further changes to the environment. Mesic conditions develop and marshy vegetation begins to disappear.\n\nThe soil now remains drier for most of the year and becomes suitable for development of wet woodland. It is invaded by shrubs and trees such as \"Salix\" (willow), \"Alnus\" (alder), and \"Populus\" (poplar). These plants react upon the habitat by producing shade, lower the water table still further by transpiration, build up the soil, and lead to the accumulation of humus with associated microorganisms. This type of wet woodland is also known as carr.\n\nFinally a self-perpetuating climax community develops. It may be a forest if the climate is humid, grassland in case of sub-humid environment, or a desert in arid and semi-arid conditions. A forest is characterized by presence of all types of vegetation including herbs, shrubs, mosses, shade-loving plants and trees. Decomposers are frequent in climax vegetation.\n\nThe overall changes taking place during development of successional communities are building up of substratum, shallowing of water, addition of humus and minerals, soil building and aeration of soil. As the water body fills in with sediment, the area of open water decreases and the vegetation types moves inwards as the water becomes shallower. Many of the above-mentioned communities can be seen growing together in a water body. The center is occupied by floating and submerged plants with reeds nearer the shores, followed by sedges and rushes growing at the edges. Still further are shrubs and trees occupying the dry land.\n\nAn example is a small kettle lake called Sweetmere, in Shropshire, UK. Sweetmere is one of many small kettle lakes which formed at the end of the last glacial period when the temperatures began to increase. The ice began to melt and retreat approximately 10,000 years ago.\n\nAs the climate slowly began to warm this allowed algae, water lilies and floating aquatic plants to begin to colonise the lake. These, in essence, were the pioneer species. Once these began to die it provided organic matter to the lake bed sediment and therefore increased fertility and reduced depth. As a result, this allowed deeper rooted species to develop such as reed, bulrush and reedmace. At this point there is a growing floating raft of thick organic matter within the lake. Because the bulrushes and reeds have relatively deep roots, this encouraged bioconstruction which traps more sediment, allowing sedges, willow and alder to become established. This process further decreased the water depth and raised the lakebed thus making it drier.\n\nDrier conditions now meant that a wider range of species could inhabit the area. Birch and alder came into dominance. All species which have grown have occurred because of seed transfer either by animals, birds, wind, or water transfer.\nWater level is further reduced as a result of further bioconstruction and also due to increasing temperatures there is increased evaporation from the lake.\n\nUnderneath the birch canopy developed terrestrial shrubs and grasses. This then increased the acidity which increased the rates of nutrient exchange. The area has been artificially drained and this allowed the oak and ash community to develop. This is the seral stage.\n\nThe lake is now being managed by cutting down certain species in order to stop the whole lake becoming dried up and dominated by the oak and ash woodland.\n\nAnother example of a hydrosere is Loch a' Mhuilin, located on the Isle of Arran, Scotland. This small lake lies behind a ridge of material deposited towards the end of the last Ice Age. The lake exhibits characteristic features of a hydrosere, the succession from a fresh water surface with small pioneer plant species to a sub-climax vegetation of alder and willow. The climax vegetation of oak and beech woodland has not been achieved due to the impact of human activities of clearing grazing land, as well as grazing by red deer and rabbits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15481795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15481795", "title": "Island wake", "text": "Island wake\n\nAn island wake is a geophysical phenomenon which results from the interaction between the island topography and the incoming atmospheric and oceanic flows.\n\n"}
{"id": "11827857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11827857", "title": "Journey to the Center of the Earth (attraction)", "text": "Journey to the Center of the Earth (attraction)\n\nJourney to the Center of the Earth is a slot car attraction at Tokyo DisneySea, based on Jules Verne's \"Journey to the Center of the Earth\". The attraction uses similar technology to Epcot's Test Track. Original music for the ride was created by longtime Disney composer Buddy Baker.\n\nThe volcano of Mysterious Island, Mount Prometheus, has become Captain Nemo's base. After traveling through its caverns and past several of Nemo's labs (which includes a diary entry of the discovery of the fossilized egg of a monstrous, unknown arthropod), guests board \"Terravators\" (elevators) to the facility's base station one half mile below. In this base station is a huge steam-powered bellows that pumps fresh air down from the surface, massive spring-pillars that hold the ceiling up to prevent cave-ins in case of earthquakes, and communication center which is currently giving warnings of increased seismic activity, but the scientist who mans it is currently away on a tea break.\n\nRiders then board steam-powered mine vehicles that travel through pre-drilled tunnels into the heart of the Earth. The ride begins through a cavern of colorful glowing crystals, before entering a giant Mushroom Forest, which is inhabited by strange insect and amphibian-like life forms. Before the car can proceed further, an earthquake causes a cave-in of the tunnel ahead, forcing the car off its planned route and down a side branch filled with giant egg-like sacks that appears to have been dug by a gigantic creature. The car emerges on the shore of the Subterranean Sea, and is nearly struck by a lightning from the electrified gas clouds. The finale comes when riders are forced into the fiery heart of an active volcano, where the riders come face-to-face with the giant, tyrannical centipede-like lava monster that has built a nest there, before escaping back to the surface on the wave of an eruption.\n\nJourney to the Center of the Earth was originally planned as a free-fall type ride as part of Discovery Mountain, a former Disneyland Paris concept in place of . Since it was never built, this project reemerged in Tokyo DisneySea with new technology from Test Track, a thrill ride through a GM testing facility at that time.\n\nThe score of the ride was composed by Buddy Baker, who was also responsible for the scores of rides such as Pirates of The Caribbean and the Haunted Mansion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8612428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612428", "title": "Kurşunlu Waterfall Nature Park", "text": "Kurşunlu Waterfall Nature Park\n\nThe Kurşunlu Waterfall () is located 19 km from Antalya, Turkey at the end of a 7 km road branching off to the north of the Antalya-Serik-Alanya highway at a point 12 km east of Antalya. It is reduced to a mere trickle in the summer months.\n\nThe waterfall is on one of the tributaries of the Aksu River, where the tributary drops from Antalya's plateau to the coastal plain. It is situated in the midst of a pine forest of exceptional beauty, and the environs provide a picnic and pleasure spot about twenty minutes by car from the centre of the city of Antalya.\n\nThe waterfall and its surronundings covering an area of was declared a nature park by the Ministry of Environment and Forest on May 21, 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "822251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=822251", "title": "Larunda", "text": "Larunda\n\nLarunda (also Larunde, Laranda, Lara) was a naiad nymph, daughter of the river Almo in Ovid's \"Fasti\". The only known mythography attached to Lara is little, late and poetic, coming to us from Ovid’s \"Fasti\". She was famous for both beauty and loquacity (a trait her parents attempted to curb). She was incapable of keeping secrets, and so revealed to Jupiter's wife Juno his affair with Juturna (Larunda's fellow nymph, and the wife of Janus). For betraying his trust, Jupiter cut out Lara's tongue and ordered Mercury, the psychopomp, to conduct her to Avernus, the gateway to the Underworld and realm of Pluto. Mercury, however, fell in love with Lara and had sex with her on the way. Lara thereby became mother to two children, referred to as the Lares, invisible household gods. However, she had to stay in a hidden cottage in the woods so that Jupiter would not find her.\n\nLarunda is likely identical with Muta \"the mute one\" and Tacita \"the silent one\", nymphs or minor goddesses.\n\nOvid mentions the myth of Lara and Mercury in connection with the festival of Feralia on February 21. Lara/Larunda is also sometimes associated with Acca Larentia, whose feast day was the Larentalia on December 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "49511859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49511859", "title": "List of Piper species", "text": "List of Piper species\n\nThe genus \"Piper\" contains between 1000 and 2000 species. The following species are accepted by \"The Plant List\":\n"}
{"id": "19580049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19580049", "title": "List of Rosaceae genera", "text": "List of Rosaceae genera\n\nThere are approximatively 100-160 genera and 3,500- 4,000 species in the family Rosaceae. It also includes subgenera and synonyms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1603840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603840", "title": "List of Salvia species", "text": "List of Salvia species\n\nSalvia is the largest genus of plants in the family Lamiaceae, with the number of species estimated to range from 700 to nearly 1,000. Members include shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and annuals. There are three main regions of radiation of \"Salvia\": Central and South America, with approximately 500 species; central Asia and the Mediterranean with approx. 250 species; eastern Asia with approximately 90 species.\n\nThe naming of distinct \"Salvia\" species has undergone regular revision, with many species being renamed, merged, and reclassified over the years. \"Salvia officinalis\" (common sage), for example, has been cultivated for thousands of years, yet has been named and described under six different scientific names since 1940 alone. At one time there were over 2,000 named species and subspecies. The most recent revision was done in 1988 by Gabriel Alziar of the Jardin botanique de la Ville de Nice—it consolidated the number of different species to approximately 700. As new discoveries are made, the taxonomic list of \"Salvia\" species will continue to change.\n\nThe first significant accounting of the genus was done by George Bentham in 1832-1836, based on a similarity in staminal morphology between \"Salvia\" members. His work, \"Labiatarum Genera et Species\" (1836), is still the most comprehensive organization of \"Salvia\". Even though there were only 291 species at that time, he still considered the possibility of forming five or six genera, due to differences between certain groups of \"Salvia\". Bentham eventually organized the genus into four subgenera and twelve sections, based on differences in the corolla, calyx, and stamens. In the last 100 years, that system of organization is generally not endorsed by botanists.\n\nThe classification of \"Salvia\" has long been based on the genus' unusual pollination and stamen structure, which was presumed to have evolved only once. More recently, a study using DNA sequencing of \"Salvia\" species has shown that different versions of this lever mechanism have evolved at least three different times within \"Salvia\". This clearly makes the genus non-monophyletic, which means that members of the genus have evolved from different ancestors, rather than sharing one common ancestor. The DNA analysis has shown that the genus may consist of as many as three different clades, or branches. The study concluded that \"Salvia\" is not a natural genus—some of its branches have a closer relationship to other genera in the tribe Mentheae than to other \"Salvia\" species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43002901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43002901", "title": "List of Scleria species", "text": "List of Scleria species\n\nThis list is compiled from \"The Plant List\", \"Germplasm Resources Information Network\", Integrated Taxonomic Information System and \"Flora of China\".\n"}
{"id": "19400800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400800", "title": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (E–O)", "text": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (E–O)\n\nThis is an incomplete list of 2,700 species of vascular plants which are native to the region of Palestine as \ndefined by \"Flora Palaestina\". The region includes the whole area of the State of Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights, \nthe Israeli-occupied part of Mount Hermon, and the East Bank (which is in Jordan).\n\nThe table below lists alphabetically all species with initial letters E-O. See the following for other species and some background information:\n"}
{"id": "38593888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38593888", "title": "List of nature centers in Tennessee", "text": "List of nature centers in Tennessee\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Tennessee.\n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6093555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6093555", "title": "List of nuclear waste treatment technologies", "text": "List of nuclear waste treatment technologies\n\nThe following are most of the different possible methods of treating and disposing of nuclear waste:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45054913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45054913", "title": "List of protected areas of Halsnæs Municipality", "text": "List of protected areas of Halsnæs Municipality\n\nThis list of protected areas in Halsnæs Municipality lists protected areas in Halsnæs Municipality, Denmark.\n"}
{"id": "11217766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11217766", "title": "List of solar thermal power stations", "text": "List of solar thermal power stations\n\nThis is a list of the largest facilities generating electricity through the use of solar thermal power, specifically concentrated solar power.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24775901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24775901", "title": "List of tributaries of the Colorado River", "text": "List of tributaries of the Colorado River\n\nThe principal tributaries of the Colorado River of North America are the Gila River, the San Juan River, the Green River, and the Gunnison River.\n\nThe following is a tree demonstrating the points at which the major and minor tributaries of the Colorado River branch off from the main river and from each other.\n\n\nRiver and Tributary Locations determined by examining maps available at USGS national atlas \n"}
{"id": "343457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343457", "title": "Maternal effect", "text": "Maternal effect\n\nA maternal effect is a situation where the phenotype of an organism is determined not only by the environment it experiences and its genotype, but also by the environment and genotype of its mother. In genetics, maternal effects occur when an organism shows the phenotype expected from the genotype of the mother, irrespective of its own genotype, often due to the mother supplying messenger RNA or proteins to the egg. Maternal effects can also be caused by the maternal environment independent of genotype, sometimes controlling the size, sex, or behaviour of the offspring. These adaptive maternal effects lead to phenotypes of offspring that increase their fitness. Further, it introduces the concept of phenotypic plasticity, an important evolutionary concept. It has been proposed that maternal effects are important for the evolution of adaptive responses to environmental heterogeneity.\n\nIn genetics, a maternal effect occurs when the phenotype of an organism is determined by the genotype of its mother. For example, if a mutation is maternal effect recessive, then a female homozygous for the mutation may appear phenotypically normal, however her offspring will show the mutant phenotype, even if they are heterozygous for the mutation.\n\nMaternal effects often occur because the mother supplies a particular mRNA or protein to the oocyte, hence the maternal genome determines whether the molecule is functional. Maternal supply of mRNAs to the early embryo is important, as in many organisms the embryo is initially transcriptionally inactive. Because of the inheritance pattern of maternal effect mutations, special genetic screens are required to identify them. These typically involve examining the phenotype of the organisms one generation later than in a conventional (zygotic) screen, as their mothers will be potentially homozygous for maternal effect mutations that arise.\n\nA \"Drosophila melanogaster\" oocyte develops in an egg chamber in close association with a set of cells called nurse cells. Both the oocyte and the nurse cells are descended from a single germline stem cell, however cytokinesis is incomplete in these cell divisions, and the cytoplasm of the nurse cells and the oocyte is connected by structures known as ring canals. Only the oocyte undergoes meiosis and contributes DNA to the next generation.\n\nMany maternal effect \"Drosophila\" mutants have been found that affect the early steps in embryogenesis such as axis determination, including \"bicoid, dorsal, gurken\" and \"oskar\". For example, embryos from homozygous \"bicoid\" mothers fail to produce head and thorax structures.\n\nOnce the gene that is disrupted in the \"bicoid\" mutant was identified, it was shown that \"bicoid\" mRNA is transcribed in the nurse cells and then relocalized to the oocyte. Other maternal effect mutants either affect products that are similarly produced in the nurse cells and act in the oocyte, or parts of the transportation machinery that are required for this relocalization. Since these genes are expressed in the (maternal) nurse cells and not in the oocyte or fertilised embryo, the maternal genotype determines whether they can function.\n\nIn birds, mothers may pass down hormones in their eggs that affect an offspring's growth and behavior. Experiments in domestic canaries have shown that eggs that contain more yolk androgens develop into chicks that display more social dominance. Similar variation in yolk androgen levels has been seen in bird species like the American coot, though the mechanism of effect has yet to be established.\n\nIn 2015, obesity theorist Edward Archer published \"The Childhood Obesity Epidemic as a Result of Nongenetic Evolution: The Maternal Resources Hypothesis\" and a series of works on maternal effects in human obesity and health. In this body of work, Archer argued that accumulative maternal effects via the non-genetic evolution of matrilineal nutrient metabolism is responsible for the increased global prevalence of obesity and diabetes mellitus type 2. Archer posited that decrements in maternal metabolic control altered fetal pancreatic beta cell, adipocyte (fat cell) and myocyte (muscle cell) development thereby inducing an enduring competitive advantage of adipocytes in the acquisition and sequestering on nutrient energy.\n\nThe environment or condition of the mother can also in some situations influence the phenotype of her offspring, independent of the offspring's genotype.\n\nIn contrast, a paternal effect is when a phenotype results from the genotype of the father, rather than the genotype of the individual. The genes responsible for these effects are components of sperm that are involved in fertilization and early development. An example of a paternal-effect gene is the ms(3)sneaky in \"Drosophila\". Males with a mutant allele of this gene produce sperm that are able to fertilize an egg, but the sneaky-inseminated eggs do not develop normally. However, females with this mutation produce eggs that undergo normal development when fertilized.\n\nAdaptive maternal effects induce phenotypic changes in offspring that result in an increase in fitness. These changes arise from mothers sensing environmental cues that work to reduce offspring fitness, and then responding to them in a way that then “prepares” offspring for their future environments. A key characteristic of “adaptive maternal effects” phenotypes is their plasticity. Phenotypic plasticity gives organisms the ability to respond to different environments by altering their phenotype. With these “altered” phenotypes increasing fitness it becomes important to look at the likelihood that adaptive maternal effects will evolve and become a significant phenotypic adaptation to an environment.\n\nWhen traits are influenced by either the maternal environment or the maternal phenotype, it is said to be influenced by maternal effects. Maternal effects work to alter the phenotypes of the offspring through pathways other than DNA. \"Adaptive\" maternal effects are when these maternal influences lead to a phenotypic change that increases the fitness of the offspring. In general, adaptive maternal effects are a mechanism to cope with factors that work to reduce offspring fitness; they are also environment specific.\n\nIt can sometimes be difficult to differentiate between maternal and adaptive maternal effects. Consider the following: Gypsy moths reared on foliage of black oak, rather than chestnut oak, had offspring that developed faster. This is a maternal, \"not\" an adaptive maternal effect. In order to be an adaptive maternal effect, the mother’s environment would have to have led to a change in the eating habits or behavior of the offspring. The key difference between the two therefore, is that adaptive maternal effects are environment specific. The phenotypes that arise are in response to the mother sensing an environment that would reduce the fitness of her offspring. By accounting for this environment she is then able to alter the phenotypes to actually increase the offspring’s fitness. \"Maternal\" effects are not in response to an environmental cue, and further they have the potential to increase offspring fitness, but they may not.\n\nWhen looking at the likelihood of these “altered” phenotypes evolving there are many factors and cues involved. Adaptive maternal effects evolve only when offspring can face many potential environments; when a mother can “predict” the environment into which her offspring will be born; and when a mother can influence her offspring’s phenotype, thereby increasing their fitness. The summation of all of these factors can then lead to these “altered” traits becoming favorable for evolution.\n\nThe phenotypic changes that arise from adaptive maternal effects are a result of the mother sensing that a certain aspect of the environment may decrease the survival of her offspring. When sensing a cue the mother “relays” information to the developing offspring and therefore induces adaptive maternal effects. This tends to then cause the offspring to have a higher fitness because they are “prepared” for the environment they are likely to experience. These cues can include responses to predators, habitat, high population density, and food availability\nThe increase in size of Northern American red squirrels is a great example of an adaptive maternal effect producing a phenotype that resulted in an increased fitness. The adaptive maternal effect was induced by the mothers sensing the high population density and correlating it to low food availability per individual. Her offspring were on average larger than other squirrels of the same species; they also grew faster. Ultimately, the squirrels born during this period of high population density showed an increased survival rate (and therefore fitness) during their first winter.\n\nWhen analyzing the types of changes that can occur to a phenotype, we can see changes that are behavioral, morphological, or physiological. A characteristic of the phenotype that arises through adaptive maternal effects, is the plasticity of this phenotype. Phenotypic plasticity allows organisms to adjust their phenotype to various environments, thereby enhancing their fitness to changing environmental conditions. Ultimately it is a key attribute to an organism’s, and a population’s, ability to adapt to short term environmental change.\n\nPhenotypic plasticity can be seen in many organisms, one species that exemplifies this concept is the seed beetle \"Stator limbatus\". This seed beetle reproduces on different host plants, two of the more common ones being \"Cercidium floridum\" and \"Acacia greggii\". When \"C. floridum\" is the host plant, there is selection for a large egg size; when \"A. greggii\" is the host plant, there is a selection for a smaller egg size. In an experiment it was seen that when a beetle who usually laid eggs on \"A. greggii\" was put onto \"C. floridum\", the survivorship of the laid eggs was lower compared to those eggs produced by a beetle that was conditioned and remained on the \"C. florium\" host plant. Ultimately these experiments showed the plasticity of egg size production in the beetle, as well as the influence of the maternal environment on the survivorship of the offspring.\n\nIn many insects:\n\nRelated to adaptive maternal effects are epigenetic effects. Epigenetics is the study of long lasting changes in gene expression that are produced by modifications to chromatin instead of changes in DNA sequence, as is seen in DNA mutation. This \"change\" refers to DNA methylation, histone acetylation, or the interaction of non-coding RNAs with DNA. DNA methylation is the addition of methyl groups to the DNA. When DNA is methylated in mammals, the transcription of the gene at that location is turned down or turned off entirely. The induction of DNA methylation is highly influenced by the maternal environment. Some maternal environments can lead to a higher methylation of an offspring's DNA, while others lower methylation.[22] The fact that methylation can be influenced by the maternal environment, makes it similar to adaptive maternal effects. Further similarities are seen by the fact that methylation can often increase the fitness of the offspring. Additionally, epigenetics can refer to histone modifications or non-coding RNAs that create a sort of cellular memory. Cellular memory refers to a cell's ability to pass nongenetic information to its daughter cell during replication. For example, after differentiation, a liver cell performs different functions than a brain cell; cellular memory allows these cells to \"remember\" what functions they are supposed to perform after replication. Some of these epigenetic changes can be passed down to future generations, while others are reversible within a particular individual's lifetime. This can explain why individuals with identical DNA can differ in their susceptibility to certain chronic diseases.\n\nCurrently, researchers are examining the correlations between maternal diet during pregnancy and its effect on the offspring’s susceptibility for chronic diseases later in life. The fetal programming hypothesis highlights the idea that environmental stimuli during critical periods of fetal development can have lifelong effects on body structure and health and in a sense they prepare offspring for the environment they will be born into. Many of these variations are thought to be due to epigenetic mechanisms brought on by maternal environment such as stress, diet, gestational diabetes, and exposure to tobacco and alcohol. These factors are thought to be contributing factors to obesity and cardiovascular disease, neural tube defects, cancer, diabetes, etc. Studies to determine these epigenetic mechanisms are usually performed through laboratory studies of rodents and epidemiological studies of humans.\n\nKnowledge of maternal diet induced epigenetic changes is important not only for scientists, but for the general public. Perhaps the most obvious place of importance for maternal dietary effects is within the medical field. In the United States and worldwide, many non-communicable diseases, such as cancer, obesity, and heart disease, have reached epidemic proportions. The medical field is working on methods to detect these diseases, some of which have been discovered to be heavily driven by epigenetic alterations due to maternal dietary effects. Once the genomic markers for these diseases are identified, research can begin to be implemented to identify the early onset of these diseases and possibly reverse the epigenetic effects of maternal diet in later life stages. The reversal of epigenetic effects will utilize the pharmaceutical field in an attempt to create drugs which target the specific genes and genomic alterations. The creation of drugs to cure these non-communicable diseases could be used to treat individuals who already have these illnesses. General knowledge of the mechanisms behind maternal dietary epigenetic effects is also beneficial in terms of awareness. The general public can be aware of the risks of certain dietary behaviors during pregnancy in an attempt to curb the negative consequences which may arise in offspring later in their lives. Epigenetic knowledge can lead to an overall healthier lifestyle for the billions of people worldwide.\n\nThe effect of maternal diet in species other than humans is also relevant. Many of the long term effects of global climate change are unknown. Knowledge of epigenetic mechanisms can help scientists better predict the impacts of changing community structures on species which are ecologically, economically, and/or culturally important around the world. Since many ecosystems will see changes in species structures, the nutrient availability will also be altered, ultimately affecting the available food choices for reproducing females. Maternal dietary effects may also be used to improve agricultural and aquaculture practices. Breeders may be able to utilize scientific data to create more sustainable practices, saving money for themselves, as well as the consumers.\n\nHyperglycemia during pregnancy is thought to cause epigenetic changes in the leptin gene of newborns leading to a potential increased risk for obesity and heart disease. Leptin is sometimes known as the “satiety hormone” because it is released by fat cells to inhibit hunger. By studying both animal models and human observational studies, it has been suggested that a leptin surge in the perinatal period plays a critical role in contributing to long-term risk of obesity. The perinatal period begins at 22 weeks gestation and ends a week after birth.[34] DNA methylation near the leptin locus has been examined to determine if there was a correlation between maternal glycemia and neonatal leptin levels. Results showed that glycemia was inversely associated with the methylation states of LEP gene, which controls the production of the leptin hormone. Therefore, higher glycemic levels in mothers corresponded to lower methylation states in LEP gene in their children. With this lower methylation state, the LEP gene is transcribed more often, thereby inducing higher blood leptin levels. These higher blood leptin levels during the perinatal period were linked to obesity in adulthood, perhaps due to the fact that a higher “normal” level of leptin was set during gestation. Because obesity is a large contributor to heart disease, this leptin surge is not only correlated with obesity but also heart disease.\n\nHigh fat diets in utero are believed to cause metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is a set of symptoms including obesity and insulin resistance that appear to be related. This syndrome is often associated with type II diabetes as well as hypertension and atherosclerosis. Using mice models, researchers have shown that high fat diets in utero cause modifications to the adiponectin and leptin genes that alter gene expression; these changes contribute to metabolic syndrome. The adiponectin genes regulate glucose metabolism as well as fatty acid breakdown; however, the exact mechanisms are not entirely understood. In both human and mice models, adiponectin has been shown to add insulin-sensitizing and anti-inflammatory properties to different types of tissue, specifically muscle and liver tissue. Adiponectin has also been shown to increase the rate of fatty acid transport and oxidation in mice, which causes an increase in fatty acid metabolism. With a high fat diet during gestation, there was an increase in methylation in the promoter of the adiponectin gene accompanied by a decrease in acetylation. These changes likely inhibit the transcription of the adiponectin genes because increases in methylation and decreases in acetylation usually repress transcription. Additionally, there was an increase in methylation of the leptin promoter, which turns down the production of the leptin gene. Therefore, there was less adiponectin to help cells take up glucose and break down fat, as well as less leptin to cause a feeling of satiety. The decrease in these hormones caused fat mass gain, glucose intolerance, hypertriglyceridemia, abnormal adiponectin and leptin levels, and hypertension throughout the animal’s lifetime. However, the effect was abolished after three subsequent generations with normal diets. This study highlights the fact that these epigenetic marks can be altered in as many as one generation and can even be completely eliminated over time. This study highlighted the connection between high fat diets to the adiponectin and leptin in mice. In contrast, few studies have been done in humans to show the specific effects of high fat diets in utero on humans. However, it has been shown that decreased adiponectin levels are associated with obesity, insulin resistance, type II diabetes, and coronary artery disease in humans. It is postulated that a similar mechanism as the one described in mice may also contribute to metabolic syndrome in humans.\n\nIn addition, high fat diets cause chronic low-grade inflammation in the placenta, adipose, liver, brain, and vascular system. Inflammation is an important aspect of the bodies’ natural defense system after injury, trauma, or disease. During an inflammatory response, a series of physiological reactions, such as increased blood flow, increased cellular metabolism, and vasodilation, occur in order to help treat the wounded or infected area. However, chronic low-grade inflammation has been linked to long-term consequences such as cardiovascular disease, renal failure, aging, diabetes, etc. This chronic low-grade inflammation is commonly seen in obese individuals on high fat diets. In a mice model, excessive cytokines were detected in mice fed on a high fat diet. Cytokines aid in cell signaling during immune responses, specifically sending cells towards sites of inflammation, infection, or trauma. The mRNA of proinflammatory cytokines was induced in the placenta of mothers on high fat diets. The high fat diets also caused changes in microbiotic composition, which led to hyperinflammatory colonic responses in offspring. This hyperinflammatory response can lead to inflammatory bowel diseases such as Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis.[35] As previously mentioned, high fat diets in utero contribute to obesity; however, some proinflammatory factors, like IL-6 and MCP-1, are also linked to body fat deposition. It has been suggested that histone acetylation is closely associated with inflammation because the addition of histone deacetylase inhibitors has been shown to reduce the expression of proinflammatory mediators in glial cells. This reduction in inflammation resulted in improved neural cell function and survival. This inflammation is also often associated with obesity, cardiovascular disease, fatty liver, brain damage, as well as preeclampsia and preterm birth. Although it has been shown that high fat diets induce inflammation, which contribute to all these chronic diseases; it is unclear as to how this inflammation acts as a mediator between diet and chronic disease.\n\nA study done after the Dutch Hunger Winter of 1944-1945 showed that undernutrition during the early stages of pregnancy are associated with hypomethylation of the insulin-like growth factor II (IGF2) gene even after six decades. These individuals had significantly lower methylation rates as compared to their same sex sibling who had not been conceived during the famine. A comparison was done with children conceived prior to the famine so that their mothers were nutrient deprived during the later stages of gestation; these children had normal methylation patterns. The IGF2 stands for insulin-like growth factor II; this gene is a key contributor in human growth and development. IGF2 gene is also maternally imprinted meaning that the mother’s gene is silenced. The mother’s gene is typically methylated at the differentially methylated region (DMR); however, when hypomethylated, the gene is bi-allelically expressed. Thus, individuals with lower methylation states likely lost some of the imprinting effect. Similar results have been demonstrated in the Nr3c1 and Ppara genes of the offspring of rats fed on an isocaloric protein-deficient diet before starting pregnancy. This further implies that the undernutrition was the cause of the epigenetic changes. Surprisingly, there was not a correlation between methylation states and birth weight. This displayed that birth weight may not be an adequate way to determine nutritional status during gestation. This study stressed that epigenetic effects vary depending on the timing of exposure and that early stages of mammalian development are crucial periods for establishing epigenetic marks. Those exposed earlier in gestation had decreased methylation while those who were exposed at the end of gestation had relatively normal methylation levels. The offspring and descendants of mothers with hypomethylation were more likely to develop cardiovascular disease. Epigenetic alterations that occur during embryogenesis and early fetal development have greater physiologic and metabolic effects because they are transmitted over more mitotic divisions. In other words, the epigenetic changes that occur earlier are more likely to persist in more cells.\n\nIn another study, researchers discovered that perinatal nutrient restriction resulting in intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) contributes to diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2). IUGR refers to the poor growth of the baby in utero. In the pancreas, IUGR caused a reduction in the expression of the promoter of the gene encoding a critical transcription factor for beta cell function and development. Pancreatic beta cells are responsible for making insulin; decreased beta cell activity is associated with DM2 in adulthood. In skeletal muscle, IUGR caused a decrease in expression of the Glut-4 gene. The Glut-4 gene controls the production of the Glut-4 transporter; this transporter is specifically sensitive to insulin. Thus, when insulin levels rise, more glut-4 transporters are brought to the cell membrane to increase the uptake of glucose into the cell. This change is caused by histone modifications in the cells of skeletal muscle that decrease the effectiveness of the glucose transport system into the muscle. Because the main glucose transporters are not operating at optimal capacity, these individuals are more likely to develop insulin resistance with energy rich diets later in life, contributing to DM2.\n\nFurther studies have examined the epigenetic changes resulting from a high protein/low carbohydrate diet during pregnancy. This diet caused epigenetic changes that were associated with higher blood pressure, higher cortisol levels, and a heightened Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress. Increased methylation in the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (HSD2), glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and H19 ICR were positively correlated with adiposity and blood pressure in adulthood. Glucocorticoids play a vital role in tissue development and maturation as well as having effects on metabolism. Glucocorticoids’ access to GR is regulated by HSD1 and HSD2. H19 is an imprinted gene for a long coding RNA (lncRNA), which has limiting effects on body weight and cell proliferation. Therefore, higher methylation rates in H19 ICR repress transcription and prevent the lncRNA from regulating body weight. Mothers who reported higher meat/fish and vegetable intake and lower bread/potato intake in late pregnancy had a higher average methylation in GR and HSD2. However, one common challenge of these types of studies is that many epigenetic modifications have tissue and cell-type specificity DNA methylation patterns. Thus, epigenetic modification patterns of accessible tissues, like peripheral blood, may not represent the epigenetic patterns of the tissue involved in a particular disease.\n\nStrong evidence in rats supports the conclusion that neonatal estrogen exposure plays a role in the development of prostate cancer. Using a human fetal prostate xenograft model, researchers studied the effects of early exposure to estrogen with and without secondary estrogen and testosterone treatment. A xenograft model is a graft of tissue transplanted between organisms of different species. In this case, human tissue was transplanted into rats; therefore, there was no need to extrapolate from rodents to humans. Histopathological lesions, proliferation, and serum hormone levels were measured at various time-points after xenografting. At day 200, the xenograft that had been exposed to two treatments of estrogen showed the most severe changes. Additionally, researchers looked at key genes involved in prostatic glandular and stromal growth, cell-cycle progression, apoptosis, hormone receptors, and tumor suppressors using a custom PCR array. Analysis of DNA methylation showed methylation differences in CpG sites of the stromal compartment after estrogen treatment. These variations in methylation are likely a contributing cause to the changes in the cellular events in the KEGG prostate cancer pathway that inhibit apoptosis and increase cell cycle progression that contribute to the development of cancer.\n\nIn utero or neonatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA), a chemical used in manufacturing polycarbonate plastic, is correlated with higher body weight, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and an altered reproductive function. In a mice model, the mice fed on a BPA diet were more likely to have a yellow coat corresponding to their lower methylation state in the promoter regions of the retrotransposon upstream of the Agouti gene. The Agouti gene is responsible for determining whether an animal’s coat will be banded (agouti) or solid (non-agouti). However, supplementation with methyl donors like folic acid or phytoestrogen abolished the hypomethylating effect. This demonstrates that the epigenetic changes can be reversed through diet and supplementation.\n\nMaternal dietary effects are not just seen in humans, but throughout many taxa in the animal kingdom. These maternal dietary effects can result in ecological changes on a larger scale throughout populations and from generation to generation. The plasticity involved in these epigenetic changes due to maternal diet represents the environment into which the offspring will be born. Many times, epigenetic effects on offspring from the maternal diet during development will genetically prepare the offspring to be better adapted for the environment in which they will first encounter. The epigenetic effects of maternal diet can be seen in many species, utilizing different ecological cues and epigenetic mechanisms to provide an adaptive advantage to future generations.\n\nWithin the field of ecology, there are many examples of maternal dietary effects. Unfortunately, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying these phenotypic changes are rarely investigated. In the future, it would be beneficial for ecological scientists as well as epigenetic and genomic scientists to work together to fill the holes within the ecology field to produce a complete picture of environmental cues and epigenetic alterations producing phenotypic diversity.\n\nA pyralid moth species, \"Plodia interpunctella\", commonly found in food storage areas, exhibits maternal dietary effects, as well as paternal dietary effects, on its offspring. Epigenetic changes in moth offspring affect the production of phenoloxidase, an enzyme involved with melanization and correlated with resistance of certain pathogens in many invertebrate species. In this study, parent moths were housed in food rich or food poor environments during their reproductive period. Moths who were housed in food poor environments produced offspring with less phenoloxidase, and thus had a weaker immune system, than moths who reproduced in food rich environments. This is believed to be adaptive because the offspring develop while receiving cues of scarce nutritional opportunities. These cues allow the moth to allocate energy differentially, decreasing energy allocated for the immune system and devoting more energy towards growth and reproduction to increase fitness and insure future generations. One explanation for this effect may be imprinting, the expression of only one parental gene over the other, but further research has yet to be done.\n\nParental-mediated dietary epigenetic effects on immunity has a broader significance on wild organisms. Changes in immunity throughout an entire population may make the population more susceptible to an environmental disturbance, such as the introduction of a pathogen. Therefore, these transgenerational epigenetic effects can influence the population dynamics by decreasing the stability of populations who inhabit environments different from the parental environment that offspring are epigenetically modified for.\n\nFood availability also influences the epigenetic mechanisms driving growth rate in the mouthbrooding cichlid, \"Simochromis pleurospilus\". When nutrient availability is high, reproducing females will produce many small eggs, versus fewer, larger eggs in nutrient poor environments. Egg size often correlates with fish larvae body size at hatching: smaller larvae hatch from smaller eggs. In the case of the cichlid, small larvae grow at a faster rate than their larger egg counterparts. This is due to the increased expression of GHR, the growth hormone receptor. Increased transcription levels of GHR genes increase the receptors available to bind with growth hormone, GH, leading to an increased growth rate in smaller fish. Fish of larger size are less likely to be eaten by predators, therefore it is advantageous to grow quickly in early life stages to insure survival. The mechanism by which GHR transcription is regulated is unknown, but it may be due to hormones within the yolk produced by the mother, or just by the yolk quantity itself. This may lead to DNA methylation or histone modifications which control genic transcription levels.\n\nEcologically, this is an example of the mother utilizing her environment and determining the best method to maximize offspring survival, without actually making a conscious effort to do so. Ecology is generally driven by the ability of an organism to compete to obtain nutrients and successfully reproduce. If a mother is able to gather a plentiful amount of resources, she will have a higher fecundity and produce offspring who are able to grow quickly to avoid predation. Mothers who are unable to obtain as many nutrients will produce fewer offspring, but the offspring will be larger in hopes that their large size will help insure survival into sexual maturation. Unlike the moth example, the maternal effects provided to the cichlid offspring do not prepare the cichlids for the environment that they will be born into; this is because mouth brooding cichlids provide parental care to their offspring, providing a stable environment for the offspring to develop. Offspring who have a greater growth rate can become independent more quickly than slow growing counterparts, therefore decreasing the amount of energy spent by the parents during the parental care period.\n\nA similar phenomenon occurs in the sea urchin, \"Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis\". Urchin mothers in nutrient rich environments produce a large number of small eggs. Offspring from these small eggs grow at a faster rate than their large egg counterparts from nutrient poor mothers. Again, it is beneficial for sea urchin larvae, known as planula, to grow quickly to decrease the duration of their larval phase and metamorphose into a juvenile to decrease predation risks. Sea urchin larvae have the ability to develop into one of two phenotypes, based on their maternal and larval nutrition. Larvae who grow at a fast rate from high nutrition, are able to devote more of their energy towards development into the juvenile phenotype. Larvae who grow at a slower rate with low nutrition, devote more energy towards growing spine-like appendages to protect themselves from predators in an attempt to increase survival into the juvenile phase. The determination of these phenotypes is based on both the maternal and the juvenile nutrition. The epigenetic mechanisms behind these phenotypic changes is unknown, but it is believed that there may be a nutritional threshold that triggers epigenetic changes affecting development and, ultimately, the larval phenotype.\n\n"}
{"id": "46776210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46776210", "title": "Natural gas and petroleum in Bangladesh", "text": "Natural gas and petroleum in Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh is the nineteenth-largest producer of natural gas in Asia. Gas supplies meet 56% of domestic energy demand. However, the country faces an acute energy crisis in meeting the demands of its vast and growing population. Bangladesh is a net importer of crude oil and petroleum products. The energy sector is dominated by state-owned companies, including Petrobangla and the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation. Chevron, ConocoPhilips, Statoil, Gazprom and ONGC are major international companies engaged in Bangladesh's hydrocarbon industry, with Chevron's gas fields accounting for 50% of natural gas production.\n\nGeologists believe the country's maritime exclusive economic zone holds one of the largest oil and gas reserves in the Asia-Pacific. Protectionism and a lack of technical capacity have impeded Bangladesh's potential to emerge as a major global hydrocarbon producer. Two LNG Terminala and a gas pipeline will be created to ease the Bangladesh gas shortage.\n\nThe Indo-Burma Petroleum Company drilled the first oil wells in Eastern Bengal between 1908 and 1914 in Chittagong District. The Burmah Oil Company discovered the first gas field in East Bengal in 1955. Industrial use of natural gas began in 1959. The Shell Oil Company and Pakistan Petroleum discovered seven major gas fields in the 1960s.\n\nAfter the Bangladesh Liberation War, the first government of Bangladesh led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, with Dr. Kamal Hossain as Minister of Energy, enacted the Bangladesh Petroleum Act in 1974. The government welcomed many international oil companies to explore the country. It established Petrobangla as the national mineral resources company. Petrobangla accelerated exploration activities in 1980s and discovered nine major gas fields; and also established the first commercial oil facility in Haripur in 1986. The Jalalabad, Maulvi Bazar, Bibiyana and Bangura-Lalmai gas fields were tapped in the 1990s by numerous multinational oil and gas companies, including Shell and Unocal. The energy giant Chevron acquired the assets of Unocal in Bangladesh in 2005.\n\nIn 1974 the government awarded seven shallow water offshore blocks on the continental shelf of Bangladesh to six international oil companies. However, these companies left Bangladesh in 1978 amid technical difficulties and political instability. Oil was their primary target and early exploration indicated that the area possessed gas rather than oil. The world petroleum scenario had since changed and interest in gas exploration increased among IOCs, despite challenges in offshore deep water exploration. In 1998, the Bangladeshi government awarded four shallow water blocks for to a new group of IOCs. Shell, Cairn Energy and Santos operated the offshore Sangu gas platform.\n\nSince 2009, the Bangladeshi government launched has bidding rounds for awarding deep water blocks. ConocoPhilips and Tullow Oil won the first round of bids. The victory of Bangladesh over Myanmar in securing maritime territory in the Bay of Bengal has increased the number of exploratory blocks in the EEZ to 27.\n\nThe Bengal delta has a hydrocarbon-bearing sediment structure with rich mineral deposits. The northeastern Sylhet Division is the country's largest natural gas and crude oil producer, followed by Chittagong Division, Dhaka Division and Barisal Division; while dozens of offshore blocks lay in the Bay of Bengal. Natural gas from Bangladesh is renowned for being very pure with a composition of 95–99% methane and almost no sulphur.\n\nAs of 2015, the natural gas reserves of Bangladesh is 14.16 trillion cubic feet. The country has an average daily natural gas production of around 2,700 millions cubic feet.\n\nThe Bibiyana gas field in Habiganj District is the country's largest gas field. Oil production in 2013 was 4,500 bbl/d against a demand of 119,000 bbl/d. The downstream sector in Bangladesh remains relatively under-developed.\n\nPetrobangla is the principal energy company in Bangladesh. Its subsidiary, the Bangladesh Petroleum Exploration Company (BAPEX), is responsible for exploration activities. International oil companies must sell natural gas to Petrobangla at a government-determined price and are restricted in their ability to sell natural gas to customers directly. The gas distribution network is dominated by the Titas Gas company, as well as regional companies in North Bengal and Sylhet. Due to the energy crisis in recent years, Bangladesh has planned to import gas from Qatar to meet demands in the short-term. The country's first LNG Terminal will be built in Matarbari, Cox's Bazar for imports and will be a floating facility. Bangladesh plans to build a permanent LNG Terminal on Maheshkhali Island in the future.\n\nCompressed Natural Gas (CNG) is widely used by vehicles in Bangladesh.\n\nThe Eastern Refinery in Chittagong is the country's largest oil refinery. The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation is the state-owned holding company which regulates the market for petroleum products through its subsidiaries: the Jamuna Oil Company which is the country's largest distributor and was established in 1964 as Pakistan National Oil Limited; the Padma Oil Company which was formerly known as Burmah Eastern Limited, a subsidiary of Burmah Oil until 1977; and Meghna Petroleum.\n\n"}
{"id": "22832351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22832351", "title": "Orbiting Vehicle", "text": "Orbiting Vehicle\n\nOrbiting Vehicle or OV, originally designated SATAR, was a series of American satellites operated by the US Air Force, launched between 1965 and 1971. Forty seven satellites were built, of which forty three were launched and thirty seven reached orbit. With the exception of the OV3 series, and OV4-3, they were launched as secondary payloads, using excess space on other missions.\n\nFive separate series of OV satellites were launched. The first satellites were OV1, which were carried on suborbital Atlas missile tests, and subsequently placed themselves into orbit by means of an Altair-2 kick motor. OV2 satellites were built using parts left over following the cancellation of the Advanced Research Environmental Test Satellite. Three OV2 spacecraft flew on Titan IIIC test flights. The OV3 satellites were the only ones in the series to be launched on dedicated rockets. Six were launched on Scout-B rockets between 1966 and 1967. OV4 satellites were launched as part of a test flight for the Manned Orbital Laboratory, with two satellites conducting a communications experiment whilst a third, OV4-3, was the primary payload, a Boilerplate mockup of the MOL space station. Two further OV4 satellites, duplicates of the first two, were built but not launched. OV5 satellites were launched as part of the ERS project, as secondary payloads on Titan IIIC rockets.\n\nTypically, OV satellites carried scientific or technological experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "824248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=824248", "title": "Orpheus Descending", "text": "Orpheus Descending\n\nOrpheus Descending is a play by Tennessee Williams. It was first presented on Broadway in 1957 where it enjoyed a brief run (68 performances) with only modest success. It was revived on Broadway in 1989, directed by Peter Hall and starring Vanessa Redgrave and Kevin Anderson. The production ran for 13 previews and 97 performances.\n\nThe play is a rewrite of an earlier play by Williams called \"Battle of Angels\", which was written in 1940. Williams wrote the character of Myra Torrance for Tallulah Bankhead, but she turned down the role, saying \"The play is impossible, darling, but sit down and have a drink with me.\" The production premiered on Broadway the same year, starring Miriam Hopkins. It was the first produced play written by Williams and by his account it \"failed spectacularly\". \"Battle of Angels\" remained un-produced in New York for 34 years, until the Circle Repertory Company opened their sixth season with it in 1974, directed by Marshall W. Mason.\n\nWhen \"Orpheus Descending\" appeared in 1957, Williams wrote: \"On the surface it was and still is the tale of a wild-spirited boy who wanders into a conventional community of the South and creates the commotion of a fox in a chicken coop. But beneath that now familiar surface it is a play about unanswered questions that haunt the hearts of people and the difference between continuing to ask them...and the acceptance of prescribed answers that are not answers at all.\"\n\nThe play is a modern retelling of the ancient Greek Orpheus legend and deals, in the most elemental fashion, with the power of passion, art, and imagination to redeem and revitalize life, giving it new meaning. The story is set in a dry goods store in a small southern town marked, in the play, by conformity, sexual frustration, narrowness, and racism. Into this scene steps Val, a young man with a guitar, a snakeskin jacket, a questionable past, and undeniable animal-erotic energy and appeal. He gets a job in the dry goods store run by a middle-aged woman named Lady, whose elderly husband is dying. Lady has a past and passions of her own. She finds herself attracted to Val and to the possibility of new life he seems to offer. It is a tempting antidote to her loveless marriage and boring, small-town life. The play describes the awakening of passion, love, and life – as well as its tragic consequences for Val and Lady.\n\nThe play deals with passion, its repression and its attempted recovery. On another level, it is also about trying to live bravely and honestly in a fallen world. The play is replete with lush, poetic dialogue and imagery. On the stage, the opening sections seem somewhat lacking in dramatic movement, but the play picks up power as the characters are developed and it moves to its climax. Val, representing Orpheus, represents the forces of energy and eros, which, buried as they are in compromise and everyday mundanity, have the tragic power to create life anew.\n\nDolly and Beulah, two gossiping housewives, tell each other that Jabe Torrance has just had surgery in Memphis but is dying. Carol Cutrere comes in a little later and Val, a roaming singer and musician, comes into the general store. Carol flirts with Val, insisting she has met him before in New Orleans, but he denies any prior knowledge of her. Lady agrees to hire Val as a clerk.\n\nAfter a few weeks, Val tells Lady about his wild past in New Orleans and admits that he once knew Carol. When David enters the store, Lady tells David that she aborted his child when he left her. Val and Vee are talking about her painting when Vee’s husband, Talbot, catches him kissing her hand. Lady allows Val to stay at the store, but Val steals money from the cashbox when she leaves to get linens for the bed. Val returns the money and wants to leave, but Lady begs him to stay.\n\nOn Easter, Jabe tells Lady he was responsible for her father’s death and has a hemorrhage. At sunset, Vee says she has been blinded by a vision of the risen Christ and Val is yelled at by Vee's husband for helping her up. Vee’s husband, Sheriff Talbot, tells him he has until sunset to get out of town. Val is ready to leave but Lady tries to stop him. She tries to get the nurse to kill her husband with a lethal dose of morphine, but the nurse will not. Then Lady tells Val she is happily pregnant with his child, and tells Val she looks forward to a new life because of this.\n\nBoth walk about the newly decorated refreshment emporium adjoining the store, symbolizing the promise of a new start. As Val and Lady embrace, Val looks up to see that Jabe has torn a hole through his floor, and thus through the ceiling of the emporium, and is throwing coal oil into the place, setting it on fire while yelling out the upstairs window that Val has set the place on fire and is \"robbing the place.\" Lady escapes through the door of the emporium and heads up the stairs towards Jabe's room yelling \"No Jabe, no!\" whereupon Jabe shoots Lady on the stairway. As Lady dies, the local sheriff and fire squad break through the front door, and seeing Val trying to get out of the emporium, open their water hoses full force in an ultimately successful attempt to push him back into the burning building, thus murdering him. Lady calls out for him while dying from her husband Jabe's gunshots.\n\nIn the final scene Carol (Woodward) is seen walking in the remains of the burnt out emporium while another transient looks about and discovers Val's snakeskin jacket. Carol trades a gold ring for the jacket and offers a soliloquy on \"the fugitive kind.\"\n\nIn 1959, a screen adaptation starring Marlon Brando and Anna Magnani appeared under the title \"The Fugitive Kind\"; it was directed by Sidney Lumet, and flopped like the stage production. \"Orpheus Descending\", a more faithful version – a film adaptation of the Peter Hall stage production – was released in 1990, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The play was also adapted as a two-act opera by Bruce Saylor and J. D. McClatchy in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "2431954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431954", "title": "Residual gas analyzer", "text": "Residual gas analyzer\n\nA residual gas analyzer (RGA) is a small and usually rugged mass spectrometer, typically designed for process control and contamination monitoring in vacuum systems. Utilizing quadrupole technology, there exists two implementations, utilizing either an open ion source (OIS) or a closed ion source (CIS). RGAs may be found in high vacuum applications such as research chambers, surface science setups, accelerators, scanning microscopes, etc. RGAs are used in most cases to monitor the quality of the vacuum and easily detect minute traces of impurities in the low-pressure gas environment. These impurities can be measured down to formula_1 Torr levels, possessing sub-ppm detectability in the absence of background interferences.\n\nRGAs would also be used as sensitive in-situ leak detectors commonly using helium, isopropyl alcohol or other tracer molecules. With vacuum systems pumped down to lower than formula_2 Torr—checking of the integrity of the vacuum seals and the quality of the vacuum—air leaks, virtual leaks and other contaminants at low levels may be detected before a process is initiated.\n\nOIS is the most widely available type of RGA. Residual Gas Analyzers measure pressure by sensing the weight of each atom as they pass through the quadrupole. Cylindrical and axially symmetrical, this kind of ionizer has been around since the early 1950s. The OIS type is usually mounted directly to the vacuum chamber, exposing the filament wire and anode wire cage to the surrounding vacuum chamber, allowing all molecules in the vacuum chamber to move easily through the ion source. With a maximum operating pressure of formula_3 Torr and a minimum detectable partial pressure as low as formula_1 Torr when used in tandem with an electron multiplier.\n\nOIS RGAs measure residual gas levels without affecting the gas composition of their vacuum environment, though there are performance limitations which include:\n\nWith applications requiring measurement of pressures between formula_3 and formula_7 Torr, the problem of ambient and process gases can be significantly reduced by replacing the OIS configuration with a CIS sampling system. Such an ionizer sits on top of the quadrupole mass filter and consists of a short, gas-tight tube with two openings for the entrance of electrons and exit of ions. The ions are formed close to a single extraction plate and exit the ionizer. Electrically insulated alumina rings seal the tube and the biased electrodes from the rest of the quadrupole mass assembly. The ions are produced by electron impact directly at the process pressure. Such design has been applied to gas chromatography mass spectrometry instruments before adaption by quadrupole gas analyzers. Most commercially available CIS systems operate between formula_8 and formula_9 Torr and offer ppm level detectability over the entire mass range for process pressures between formula_3 and formula_8 Torr. The upper limit is set by reduction in mean free path for ion-neutral collisions which takes place at higher pressures, and results in the scattering of ions and reduced sensitivity.\n\nThe CIS anode may be viewed as a high conductance tube connected directly to the process chamber. The pressure in the ionization area is virtually the same as the rest of the chamber. Thus the CIS ionizer produces ions by electron impact directly at the process pressure whilst the rest of the mass analyzer is kept under high vacuum. Such direct sampling provides good sensitivity and fast response times.\n"}
{"id": "56413731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413731", "title": "Sexarbores", "text": "Sexarbores\n\nSexarbores is a Gallic god known only from inscriptions found in the Hautes-Pyrénées. Like the gods Abellio and Fagus, it could have been a deified tree.\n\n\" Sexarbores \" can be translated as \" six-trees \", so Sexarbores would be the god of six-trees, a god of trees.\n\nSexarbores is only known from inscriptions found in the 'Pays d'Aspet', around Castelbiague and Arbas in France, whose forest probably fed the wood needs of the nearby city. Unlike most votive monuments of this region of Haute-Garonne, the altars in question give the names of divinities translated into Latin. Sexarbores seems to have been honored solely or mainly by Roman citizens, perhaps woodcutters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86534", "title": "Sirona", "text": "Sirona\n\nIn Celtic polytheism, Sirona was a goddess worshipped predominantly in East Central Gaul and along the Danubian limes. A healing deity, she was associated with healing springs; her attributes were snakes and eggs. She was sometimes depicted with Apollo Grannus or Apollo Borvo. She was particularly worshipped by the Treveri in the Moselle Valley.\n\nThe name of the goddess was written in various ways: \"Sirona\", \"Đirona\", \"Thirona\", indicating some difficulty in capturing the initial sound in the Latin alphabet. The symbol Đ is used here to represent the \"Tau Gallicum\", an additional letter used in Gaulish representing the cluster \"ts\" which was interchangeable with \"st\"- in word-initial position and it is not a form of the letter \"D\".\nThe root is a long vowel Gaulish variant of proto-Celtic \"*ster-\" (\"*hster\") meaning ‘star’. The same root is found in Old Irish as \"ser\", Welsh \"seren\", Middle Cornish \"sterenn\" and Breton \"steren(n)\". \nThe name \"Đirona\" consists of a long-vowel, \"o\"-grade stem \"tsīro-\" derived from the root \"*ster-\" and a \"-no-\" suffix forming adjectives of appurtenance in many Indo-European languages. Alternatively it may be an augmentative -on- suffix found in many Celtic divine names and epithets. To this is suffixed the Gaulish feminine singular \"-a\", the usual feminine variant of o-stem adjectives and nouns. So *\"Tsīrona\" would seem to have meant ‘stellar’ or ‘astral’.\n\nDue to her association with Apollo Grannus, the Interpretatio Romana has sometimes identified Sirona with the Roman goddess Diana.\n\nThe evidence for Sirona is both epigraphic (inscriptions) and representational (sculptures and statues). As the map shows, it is primarily concentrated in east-central Gaul, up to the Germanic lines, and along the Danubian limes as far east as Budapest. A few outliers are seen in Aquitaine, Brittany, and one in Italy. There are no Sirona finds in Britannia, Hispania, or in any of the other Roman provinces.\n\nSome inscriptions, such as those at Bordeaux , Corseul , the three from Ihn in Saarland, Germany , , , Mainz , Mühlburg in Baden-Württemberg and Trier (CIL 13, 03662) are to the goddess Sirona alone, \"deae Đironae\".\n\nMore usually, Sirona is paired with Apollo, as in this inscription from Graux in the Vosges mountains:\n\nor this inscription from Luxeuil-les-Bains in Franche-Comté :\n\nWhen paired with Sirona, Apollo is often assimilated with a Gaulish deity, such as Apollo Borvo or Apollo Grannus. An example from Sarmizegetusa in Dacia :\n\nand another from Augsburg where Sirona is given the epithet \"sancta\" (holy) and is identified with Diana:\n\nA dedication from Großbottwar in Baden-Württemberg can be precisely dated to the year 201 CE by mention of the two consuls, L. Annius Fabianus and M. Nonius Arrius Mucianus:\n\nAt the sulphur springs of Alzey in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, a stone bas-relief shows Sirona wearing a long gown and carrying a patera in her right hand and a sceptre in her left. The identification as Sirona is assured by a dedication () to Apollo and Sirona.\n\nThe richly furnished spring sanctuary of Hochscheid (Cueppers 1990; Weisgerber 1975) was decorated with statues of Sirona and Apollo, again confirmed by an inscription \"Deo Apolli/ni et sanc/t(a)e Siron(a)e ...\" (to Apollo and holy Sirona ...). The statue of Sirona shows her carrying a bowl of eggs (Green 1986 p. 162) and holding a long snake coiled around her lower arm (a link to the iconography of the Greek healing goddess Hygeia, daughter of Asklepios). She wears a long gown and has a star-shaped diadem on her head (a link with the meaning of the name Sirona).\n\nA bronze statue from Mâlain in the Côte d'Or and dating to around 280 CE (Deyts & Roussel 1994; Deyts 1998) shows Sirona naked to the waist and holding a snake draped over her left arm, together with a very classical Apollo with lyre. The inscription ( ILingons-M, 00002) is \"Thiron(a) et Apollo\".\n\nA stone with an engraved bust of Sirona from Saint-Avold, now in the Musée de Metz, bears an inscription (): \n\nAt Vienne-en-Val in the Loiret, a square stone pillar depicts Sirona, Apollo, Minerva and Hercules (Debal 1973). Sirona wears a long dress and a diadem, from which falls a veil. Her left hand holds a cornucopia and in her right is a patera which she is offering to a coiled snake. Again there is a similarity with Hygeia, who also carries a snake. Indeed, when a statue has no inscription, it is not clear whether Sirona or Hygeia is depicted, a syncretism demonstrated by the inscription at Wein () which includes Sirona and Aesculapius, the Roman form of Asklepios:\n\nA different aspect of Sirona is shown at Sainte-Fontaine, where Sirona holds fruit and corn (Green 1986 p. 161).\n\nSeveral temples to Sirona are known. Often these were of the Gallo-Roman fanum type, an inner [cella] with an outer walkway or pronaos, and were constructed around thermal springs or wells, as at Augst (Bakker 1990) and Oppenheim-Nierstein (Cüppers 1990).\n\nAt Budapest(in antiquity, Aquincum) a healing shrine at the spring which fed the aqueduct was dedicated to Apollo (presumably Grannus) and Sirona ()\n\nIt was established by the emperor Caracalla when he visited Pannonia, although Dio Cassius says (Roman Histories, 78.15) that the emperor\n\nTwo inscriptions describe the establishment of temples to Sirona. From Ihn-Niedaltdorf an inscription () records the donation of a building and its furnishings at the dedicant's expense:\n\nAt Wiesbaden in Hesse (in antiquity, Aquae Mattiacorum) an inscription () records the restoration of a temple by a \"curator\" at his own expense:\n\nIt seems possible that another Wiesbaden inscription () that the wife of military commander Porcius Rufianus from Mainz dedicated to an otherwise unknown goddess \"Diana Mattiaca\" for the healing of her daughter Porcia Rufiana, also refers to Sirona:\n\nAn elaborate shrine and temple complex at Hochscheid (Cüppers 1990) has already been mentioned. It was built in the second century CE around a spring, which filled a cistern in the temple. The remote location is thought to have been a pilgrimage site (Weisgerber 1975). It was destroyed in the third century, probably during the Germanic incursions of 250-270, and was never rebuilt.\n\nThe curator of Wiesbaden's temple of Sirona, Iulius Restitutus, is one protagonist of the \"Romanike\" novels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8832825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8832825", "title": "Solar combisystem", "text": "Solar combisystem\n\nA solar combisystem provides both solar space heating and cooling as well as hot water from a common array of solar thermal collectors, usually backed up by an auxiliary non-solar heat source.\n\nSolar combisystems may range in size from those installed in individual properties to those serving several in a block heating scheme. Those serving larger groups of properties district heating tend to be called central solar heating schemes.\n\nA large number of different types of solar combisystems are produced - over 20 were identified in the first international survey, conducted as part of IEA SHC Task 14 in 1997. The systems on the market in a particular country may be more restricted, however, as different systems have tended to evolve in different countries. Prior to the 1990s such systems tended to be custom-built for each property. Since then commercialised packages have developed and are now generally used.\n\nDepending on the size of the combisystem installed, the annual space heating contribution can range from 10% to 60% or more in ultra-low energy \"Passivhaus\" type buildings; even up to 100% where a large interseasonal thermal store or concentrating solar thermal heat is used. The remaining heat requirement is supplied by one or more auxiliary sources in order to maintain the heat supply once the solar heated water is exhausted. Such auxiliary heat sources may also use other renewable energy sources (when a geothermal heat pump is used, the combisystem is called geosolar) and, sometimes, rechargeable batteries.\n\nDuring 2001, around 50% of all the domestic solar collectors installed in Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, and Norway were to supply combisystems, while in Sweden it was greater. In Germany, where the total collector area installed (900,000 m2) was much larger than in the other countries, 25% was for combisystem installations. Combisystems have also been installed in Canada since the mid-1980s.\n\nSome combisystems can incorporate solar thermal cooling in summer.\n\nFollowing the work of IEA SHC Task 26 (1998 to 2002), solar combisystems can be classified according to two main aspects; firstly by the \"heat (or cool) storage category\" (the way in which water is added to and drawn from the storage tank and its effect on stratification); secondly by the \"auxiliary heat (or cool) management category\" (the way in which non-solar-thermal auxiliary heaters or coolers can be integrated into the system).\n\nMaintaining stratification (the variation in water temperature from cooler at the foot of a tank to warmer at the top) is important so that the combisystem can supply hot or cool water and space heating and cooling water at different temperatures.\n\nA solar combisystem may therefore be described as being of type B/DS, CS, etc.\n\nWithin these types, systems may be configured in many different ways. For the individual house they may – or may not – have the storage tanks, controls and auxiliary heater and cooler integrated into a single prefabricated package. In contrast, there are also large centralised systems serving a number of properties.\n\nThe simplest combisystems – the Type A – have no \"controlled storage device\". Instead they pump warm (or cool) water from the solar collectors through underfloor central heating pipes embedded in the concrete floor slab. The floor slab is thickened to provide thermal mass and so that the heat and cool from the pipes (at the bottom of the slab) is released during the evening.\n\nThe size and complexity of combisystems, and the number of options available, mean that comparing design alternatives is not straightforward. Useful approximations of performance can be produced relatively easily, however accurate predictions remain difficult.\n\nTools for designing solar combisystems are available, varying from manufacturer's guidelines to nomograms (such as the one developed for IEA SHC Task 26) to various computer simulation software of varying complexity and accuracy.\n\nAmong the software and packages are \"CombiSun\" (released free by the Task 26 team, which can be used for basic system sizing) and the free \"SHWwin\" (Austria, in German ). Other commercial systems are available.\n\nSolar combisystems generally use underfloor heating and cooling .\n\nConcentrating solar thermal technology may be used to make the collectors as small as possible.\n\nSolar combisystems use similar technologies to those used for solar hot water and for regular central heating and underfloor heating, as well as those used in the auxiliary systems - microgeneration technologies or otherwise.\n\nThe element unique to combisystems is the way that these technologies are combined, and the control systems used to integrate them, plus any stratifier technology that might be employed.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century solar hot water systems had been capable of meeting a significant portion of domestic hot water requirements in many climate zones. However it was only with the development of reliable low-energy building techniques in the last decades of the century that extending such systems for space heating became realistic in temperate and colder climatic zones.\n\nAs heat demand reduces, the overall size and cost of the system is reduced, and the lower water temperatures typical of solar heating may be more readily used - especially when coupled with underfloor heating or wall heating. The volume occupied by the equipment also reduces, which also increases the flexibility of its location.\n\nIn common with other heating systems in low-energy buildings, system performance is more sensitive to the number of occupants, room temperature and ventilation rates, when compared to regular buildings where such effects are small in relation to the higher overall energy demand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296036", "title": "Technicolor (physics)", "text": "Technicolor (physics)\n\nTechnicolor theories are models of physics beyond the standard model that address electroweak gauge symmetry breaking, the mechanism through which W and Z bosons acquire masses. Early technicolor theories were modelled on quantum chromodynamics (QCD), the \"color\" theory of the strong nuclear force, which inspired their name.\n\nInstead of introducing elementary Higgs bosons to explain observed phenomena, technicolor models hide electroweak symmetry and generate masses for the W and Z bosons through the dynamics of new gauge interactions. Although asymptotically free at very high energies, these interactions must become strong and confining (and hence unobservable) at lower energies that have been experimentally probed. This dynamical approach is natural and avoids issues of Quantum triviality and the hierarchy problem of the Standard Model.\n\nIn order to produce quark and lepton masses, technicolor has to be \"extended\" by additional gauge interactions. Particularly when modelled on QCD, extended technicolor is challenged by experimental constraints on flavor-changing neutral current and precision electroweak measurements. The specific extensions of particle dynamics for technicolor are unknown.\n\nMuch technicolor research focuses on exploring strongly interacting gauge theories other than QCD, in order to evade some of these challenges. A particularly active framework is \"walking\" technicolor, which exhibits nearly conformal behavior caused by an infrared fixed point with strength just above that necessary for spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking. Whether walking can occur and lead to agreement with precision electroweak measurements is being studied through non-perturbative lattice simulations.\n\nExperiments at the Large Hadron Collider are expected to discover the mechanism responsible for electroweak symmetry breaking, and will be critical for determining whether the technicolor framework provides the correct description of nature. In 2012 these experiments declared the discovery of a Higgs-like boson with mass approximately ; such a particle is not generically predicted by technicolor models, but can be accommodated by them.\n\nThe mechanism for the breaking of electroweak gauge symmetry in the Standard Model of elementary particle interactions remains unknown. The breaking must be spontaneous, meaning that the underlying theory manifests the symmetry exactly (the gauge-boson fields are massless in the equations of motion), but the solutions (the ground state and the excited states) do not. In particular, the physical \"W\" and \"Z\" gauge bosons become massive. This phenomenon, in which the \"W\" and \"Z\" bosons also acquire an extra polarization state, is called the \"Higgs mechanism\". Despite the precise agreement of the electroweak theory with experiment at energies accessible so far, the necessary ingredients for the symmetry breaking remain hidden, yet to be revealed at higher energies.\n\nThe simplest mechanism of electroweak symmetry breaking introduces a single complex field and predicts the existence of the Higgs boson. Typically, the Higgs boson is \"unnatural\" in the sense that quantum mechanical fluctuations produce corrections to its mass that lift it to such high values that it cannot play the role for which it was introduced. Unless the Standard Model breaks down at energies less than a few TeV, the Higgs mass can be kept small only by a delicate fine-tuning of parameters.\n\nTechnicolor avoids this problem by hypothesizing a new gauge interaction coupled to new massless fermions. This interaction is asymptotically free at very high energies and becomes strong and confining as the energy decreases to the electroweak scale of 246 GeV. These strong forces spontaneously break the massless fermions' chiral symmetries, some of which are weakly gauged as part of the Standard Model. This is the dynamical version of the Higgs mechanism. The electroweak gauge symmetry is thus broken, producing masses for the \"W\" and \"Z\" bosons.\n\nThe new strong interaction leads to a host of new composite, short-lived particles at energies accessible at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). This framework is natural because there are no elementary Higgs bosons and, hence, no fine-tuning of parameters. Quark and lepton masses also break the electroweak gauge symmetries, so they, too, must arise spontaneously. A mechanism for incorporating this feature is known as extended technicolor. Technicolor and extended technicolor face a number of phenomenological challenges, in particular issues of flavor-changing neutral currents, precision electroweak tests, and the top quark mass. Technicolor models also do not generically predict Higgs-like bosons as light as ; such a particle was discovered by experiments at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012. Some of these issues can be addressed with a class of theories known as “walking technicolor”.\n\nTechnicolor is the name given to the theory of electroweak symmetry breaking by new strong gauge-interactions whose characteristic energy scale \"Λ\" is the weak scale itself, \"Λ\" ≈ \"F\" ≡ 246 GeV. The guiding principle of technicolor is \"naturalness\": basic physical phenomena should not require fine-tuning of the parameters in the Lagrangian that describes them. What constitutes fine-tuning is to some extent a subjective matter, but a theory with elementary scalar particles typically is very finely tuned (unless it is supersymmetric). The quadratic divergence in the scalar's mass requires adjustments of a part in formula_1, where \"M\" is the cutoff of the theory, the energy scale at which the theory changes in some essential way. In the standard electroweak model with \"M\" ∼ 10 GeV (the grand-unification mass scale), and with the Higgs boson mass \"M\" = 100–500 GeV, the mass is tuned to at least a part in 10.\n\nBy contrast, a natural theory of electroweak symmetry breaking is an asymptotically free gauge theory with fermions as the only matter fields. The technicolor gauge group \"G\" is often assumed to be \"SU\"(\"N\"). Based on analogy with quantum chromodynamics (QCD), it is assumed that there are one or more doublets of massless Dirac \"technifermions\" transforming vectorially under the same complex representation of \"G\", formula_2. Thus, there is a chiral symmetry of these fermions, e.g., \"SU\"(\"N\") ⊗ \"SU\"(\"N\"), if they all transform according to the same complex representation of \"G\". Continuing the analogy with QCD, the running gauge coupling \"α\"(\"μ\") triggers spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking, the technifermions acquire a dynamical mass, and a number of massless Goldstone bosons result. If the technifermions transform under [\"SU\"(2) ⊗ \"U\"(1)] as left-handed doublets and right-handed singlets, three linear combinations of these Goldstone bosons couple to three of the electroweak gauge currents.\n\nIn 1973 Jackiw and Johnson and Cornwall and Norton studied the possibility that a (non-vectorial) gauge interaction of fermions can break itself; i.e., is strong enough to form a Goldstone boson coupled to the gauge current. Using Abelian gauge models, they showed that, if such a Goldstone boson is formed, it is \"eaten\" by the Higgs mechanism, becoming the longitudinal component of the now massive gauge boson. Technically, the polarization function \"Π\"(\"p\") appearing in the gauge boson propagator, formula_3 develops a pole at \"p\" = 0 with residue \"F\", the square of the Goldstone boson's decay constant, and the gauge boson acquires mass \"M\" ≈ \"g F\". In 1973, Weinstein showed that composite Goldstone bosons whose constituent fermions transform in the “standard” way under \"SU\"(2) ⊗ \"U\"(1) generate the weak boson masses\n\nformula_4\n\nThis standard-model relation is achieved with elementary Higgs bosons in electroweak doublets; it is verified experimentally to better than 1%. Here, \"g\" and \"g\"′ are \"SU\"(2) and \"U\"(1) gauge couplings and formula_5 defines the weak mixing angle.\n\nThe important idea of a \"new\" strong gauge interaction of massless fermions at the electroweak scale \"F\" driving the spontaneous breakdown of its global chiral symmetry, of which an \"SU\"(2) ⊗ \"U\"(1) subgroup is weakly gauged, was first proposed in 1979 by S. Weinberg This \"technicolor\" mechanism is natural in that no fine-tuning of parameters is necessary.\n\nElementary Higgs bosons perform another important task. In the Standard Model, quarks and leptons are necessarily massless because they transform under \"SU\"(2) ⊗ \"U\"(1) as left-handed doublets and right-handed singlets. The Higgs doublet couples to these fermions. When it develops its vacuum expectation value, it transmits this electroweak breaking to the quarks and leptons, giving them their observed masses. (In general, electroweak-eigenstate fermions are not mass eigenstates, so this process also induces the mixing matrices observed in charged-current weak interactions.)\n\nIn technicolor, something else must generate the quark and lepton masses. The only natural possibility, one avoiding the introduction of elementary scalars, is to enlarge \"G\" to allow technifermions to couple to quarks and leptons. This coupling is induced by gauge bosons of the enlarged group. The picture, then, is that there is a large \"extended technicolor\" (ETC) gauge group \"G\" ⊃ \"G\" in which technifermions, quarks, and leptons live in the same representations. At one or more high scales \"Λ\", \"G\" is broken down to \"G\", and quarks and leptons emerge as the TC-singlet fermions. When \"α\"(\"μ\") becomes strong at scale \"Λ\" ≈ \"F\", the fermionic condensate formula_6 forms. (The condensate is the vacuum expectation value of the technifermion bilinear formula_7. The estimate here is based on naive dimensional analysis of the quark condensate in QCD, expected to be correct as an order of magnitude.) Then, the transitions formula_8 can proceed through the technifermion's dynamical mass by the emission and reabsorption of ETC bosons whose masses \"M\" ≈ \"g\" \"Λ\" are much greater than \"Λ\". The quarks and leptons develop masses given approximately by\n\nformula_9\n\nHere, formula_10 is the technifermion condensate renormalized at the ETC boson mass scale,\n\nformula_11\n\nwhere \"γ\"(\"μ\")is the anomalous dimension of the technifermion bilinear formula_12 at the scale \"μ\". The second estimate in Eq. (2) depends on the assumption that, as happens in QCD, \"α\"(\"μ\") becomes weak not far above \"Λ\", so that the anomalous dimension γ of formula_12 is small there. Extended technicolor was introduced in 1979 by Dimopoulos and Susskind, and by Eichten and Lane. For a quark of mass \"m\" ≈ 1 GeV, and with \"Λ\" ≈ 246 GeV, one estimates \"Λ\" ≈ 15 TeV. Therefore, assuming that formula_14, \"M\" will be at least this large.\n\nIn addition to the ETC proposal for quark and lepton masses, Eichten and Lane observed that the size of the ETC representations required to generate all quark and lepton masses suggests that there will be more than one electroweak doublet of technifermions. If so, there will be more (spontaneously broken) chiral symmetries and therefore more Goldstone bosons than are eaten by the Higgs mechanism. These must acquire mass by virtue of the fact that the extra chiral symmetries are also explicitly broken, by the standard-model interactions and the ETC interactions. These \"pseudo-Goldstone bosons\" are called technipions, π. An application of Dashen's theorem gives for the ETC contribution to their mass\n\nformula_15\n\nThe second approximation in Eq. (4) assumes that formula_16. For \"F\" ≈ \"Λ\" ≈ 246 GeV and \"Λ\" ≈ 15 TeV, this contribution to \"M\" is about 50 GeV. Since ETC interactions generate formula_17 \"and\" the coupling of technipions to quark and lepton pairs, one expects the couplings to be Higgs-like; i.e., roughly proportional to the masses of the quarks and leptons. This means that technipions are expected to decay to the heaviest formula_18 and formula_19 pairs allowed.\n\nPerhaps the most important restriction on the ETC framework for quark mass generation is that ETC interactions are likely to induce flavor-changing neutral current processes such as \"μ\" → \"e\" + \"γ\", \"K\" → \"μ\" + \"e\", and |\"Δ\" \"S\"| = 2 and |\"Δ\" \"B\"| = 2 interactions that induce formula_20 and formula_21 mixing. The reason is that the algebra of the ETC currents involved in formula_17 generation imply formula_23 and formula_24 ETC currents which, when written in terms of fermion mass eigenstates, have no reason to conserve flavor. The strongest constraint comes from requiring that ETC interactions mediating formula_25–formula_26 mixing contribute less than the Standard Model. This implies an effective \"Λ\" greater than 1000 TeV. The actual \"Λ\" may be reduced somewhat if CKM-like mixing angle factors are present. If these interactions are CP-violating, as they well may be, the constraint from the \"ε\"-parameter is that the effective \"Λ\" > 10 TeV. Such huge ETC mass scales imply tiny quark and lepton masses and ETC contributions to \"M\" of at most a few GeV, in conflict with LEP searches for \"π\" at the \"Z\".\n\nExtended technicolor is a very ambitious proposal, requiring that quark and lepton masses and mixing angles arise from experimentally accessible interactions. If there exists a successful model, it would not only predict the masses and mixings of quarks and leptons (and technipions), it would explain why there are three families of each: they are the ones that fit into the ETC representations of \"q\", formula_27 and \"T\". It should not be surprising that the construction of a successful model has proven to be very difficult.\n\nSince quark and lepton masses are proportional to the bilinear technifermion condensate divided by the ETC mass scale squared, their tiny values can be avoided if the condensate is enhanced above the weak-\"α\" estimate in Eq. (2), formula_28.\n\nDuring the 1980s, several dynamical mechanisms were advanced to do this. In 1981 Holdom suggested that, if the \"α\"(\"μ\") evolves to a nontrivial fixed point in the ultraviolet, with a large positive anomalous dimension \"γ\" for formula_7, realistic quark and lepton masses could arise with \"Λ\" large enough to suppress ETC-induced formula_25—formula_31 mixing. However, no example of a nontrivial ultraviolet fixed point in a four-dimensional gauge theory has been constructed. In 1985 Holdom analyzed a technicolor theory in which a “slowly varying” \"α\"(\"μ\") was envisioned. His focus was to separate the chiral breaking and confinement scales, but he also noted that such a theory could enhance formula_32 and thus allow the ETC scale to be raised. In 1986 Akiba and Yanagida also considered enhancing quark and lepton masses, by simply assuming that \"α\" is constant and strong all the way up to the ETC scale. In the same year Yamawaki, Bando, and Matumoto again imagined an ultraviolet fixed point in a non-asymptotically free theory to enhance the technifermion condensate.\n\nIn 1986 Appelquist, Karabali and Wijewardhana discussed the enhancement of fermion masses in an asymptotically free technicolor theory with a slowly running, or “walking”, gauge coupling. The slowness arose from the screening effect of a large number of technifermions, with the analysis carried out through two-loop perturbation theory. In 1987 Appelquist and Wijewardhana explored this walking scenario further. They took the analysis to three loops, noted that the walking can lead to a power law enhancement of the technifermion condensate, and estimated the resultant quark, lepton, and technipion masses. The condensate enhancement arises because the associated technifermion mass decreases slowly, roughly linearly, as a function of its renormalization scale. This corresponds to the condensate anomalous dimension \"γ\" in Eq. (3) approaching unity (see below).\n\nIn the 1990s, the idea emerged more clearly that walking is naturally described by asymptotically free gauge theories dominated in the infrared by an approximate fixed point. Unlike the speculative proposal of ultraviolet fixed points, fixed points in the infrared are known to exist in asymptotically free theories, arising at two loops in the beta function providing that the fermion count \"N\" is large enough. This has been known since the first two-loop computation in 1974 by Caswell. If \"N\" is close to the value formula_33 at which asymptotic freedom is lost, the resultant infrared fixed point is weak, of parametric order formula_34, and reliably accessible in perturbation theory. This weak-coupling limit was explored by Banks and Zaks in 1982.\n\nThe fixed-point coupling α becomes stronger as \"N\" is reduced from formula_33. Below some critical value \"N\" the coupling becomes strong enough (> α) to break spontaneously the massless technifermions' chiral symmetry. Since the analysis must typically go beyond two-loop perturbation theory, the definition of the running coupling \"α\"(\"μ\"), its fixed point value \"α\", and the strength \"α\" necessary for chiral symmetry breaking depend on the particular renormalization scheme adopted. For formula_36; i.e., for \"N\" just below \"N\", the evolution of \"α\"(μ) is governed by the infrared fixed point and it will evolve slowly (walk) for a range of momenta above the breaking scale \"Λ\". To overcome the formula_37-suppression of the masses of first and second generation quarks involved in formula_25—formula_26 mixing, this range must extend almost to their ETC scale, of formula_40. Cohen and Georgi argued that \"γ\" = 1 is the signal of spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking, i.e., that \"γ\"(\"α\") = 1. Therefore, in the walking-\"α\" region, \"γ\" ≈ 1 and, from Eqs. (2) and (3), the light quark masses are enhanced approximately by formula_41.\n\nThe idea that \"α\"(\"μ\") walks for a large range of momenta when \"α\" lies just above \"α\" was suggested by Lane and Ramana. They made an explicit model, discussed the walking that ensued, and used it in their discussion of walking technicolor phenomenology at hadron colliders. This idea was developed in some detail by Appelquist, Terning, and Wijewardhana. Combining a perturbative computation of the infrared fixed point with an approximation of \"α\" based on the Schwinger-Dyson equation, they estimated the critical value \"N\" and explored the resultant electroweak physics. Since the 1990s, most discussions of walking technicolor are in the framework of theories assumed to be dominated in the infrared by an approximate fixed point. Various models have been explored, some with the technifermions in the fundamental representation of the gauge group and some employing higher representations.\n\nThe possibility that the technicolor condensate can be enhanced beyond that discussed in the walking literature, has also been considered recently by Luty and Okui under the name \"conformal technicolor\". They envision an infrared stable fixed point, but with a very large anomalous dimension for the operator formula_7. It remains to be seen whether this can be realized, for example, in the class of theories currently being examined using lattice techniques.\n\nThe walking enhancement described above may be insufficient to generate the measured top quark mass, even for an ETC scale as low as a few TeV. However, this problem could be addressed if the effective four-technifermion coupling resulting from ETC gauge boson exchange is strong and tuned just above a critical value. The analysis of this strong-ETC possibility is that of a Nambu–Jona–Lasinio model with an additional (technicolor) gauge interaction. The technifermion masses are small compared to the ETC scale (the cutoff on the effective theory), but nearly constant out to this scale, leading to a large top quark mass. No fully realistic ETC theory for all quark masses has yet been developed incorporating these ideas. A related study was carried out by Miransky and Yamawaki. A problem with this approach is that it involves some degree of parameter fine-tuning, in conflict with technicolor’s guiding principle of naturalness.\n\nFinally, it should be noted that there is a large body of closely related work in which ETC does not generate \"m\". These are the top quark condensate, topcolor and top-color-assisted technicolor models, in which new strong interactions are ascribed to the top quark and other third-generation fermions. As with the strong-ETC scenario described above, all these proposals involve a considerable degree of fine-tuning of gauge couplings.\n\nLattice gauge theory is a non-perturbative method applicable to strongly interacting technicolor theories, allowing first-principles exploration of walking and conformal dynamics. In 2007, Catterall and Sannino used lattice gauge theory to study \"SU\"(2) gauge theories with two flavors of Dirac fermions in the symmetric representation, finding evidence of conformality that has been confirmed by subsequent studies.\n\nAs of 2010, the situation for \"SU\"(3) gauge theory with fermions in the fundamental representation is not as clear-cut. In 2007, Appelquist, Fleming, and Neil reported evidence that a non-trivial infrared fixed point develops in such theories when there are twelve flavors, but not when there are eight. While some subsequent studies confirmed these results, others reported different conclusions, depending on the lattice methods used, and there is not yet consensus.\n\nFurther lattice studies exploring these issues, as well as considering the consequences of these theories for precision electroweak measurements, are underway by several research groups.\n\nAny framework for physics beyond the Standard Model must conform with precision measurements of the electroweak parameters. Its consequences for physics at existing and future high-energy hadron colliders, and for the dark matter of the universe must also be explored.\n\nIn 1990, the phenomenological parameters \"S\", \"T\", and \"U\" were introduced by Peskin and Takeuchi to quantify contributions to electroweak radiative corrections from physics beyond the Standard Model. They have a simple relation to the parameters of the electroweak chiral Lagrangian. The Peskin-Takeuchi analysis was based on the general formalism for weak radiative corrections developed by Kennedy, Lynn, Peskin and Stuart, and alternate formulations also exist.\n\nThe \"S\", \"T\", and \"U\"-parameters describe corrections to the electroweak gauge boson propagators from physics Beyond the Standard Model. They can be written in terms of polarization functions of electroweak currents and their spectral representation as follows:\n\nformula_43\n\nwhere only new, beyond-standard-model physics is included. The quantities are calculated relative to a minimal Standard Model with some chosen reference mass of the Higgs boson, taken to range from the experimental lower bound of 117 GeV to 1000 GeV where its width becomes very large. For these parameters to describe the dominant corrections to the Standard Model, the mass scale of the new physics must be much greater than \"M\" and \"M\", and the coupling of quarks and leptons to the new particles must be suppressed relative to their coupling to the gauge bosons. This is the case with technicolor, so long as the lightest technivector mesons, \"ρ\" and \"a\", are heavier than 200–300 GeV. The \"S\"-parameter is sensitive to all new physics at the TeV scale, while \"T\" is a measure of weak-isospin breaking effects. The \"U\"-parameter is generally not useful; most new-physics theories, including technicolor theories, give negligible contributions to it.\n\nThe \"S\" and \"T\"-parameters are determined by global fit to experimental data including \"Z\"-pole data from LEP at CERN, top quark and \"W\"-mass measurements at Fermilab, and measured levels of atomic parity violation. The resultant bounds on these parameters are given in the Review of Particle Properties. Assuming \"U\" = 0, the \"S\" and \"T\" parameters are small and, in fact, consistent with zero:\n\nformula_44\n\nwhere the central value corresponds to a Higgs mass of 117 GeV and the correction to the central value when the Higgs mass is increased to 300 GeV is given in parentheses. These values place tight restrictions on beyond-standard-model theories — when the relevant corrections can be reliably computed.\n\nThe \"S\" parameter estimated in QCD-like technicolor theories is significantly greater than the experimentally allowed value. The computation was done assuming that the spectral integral for \"S\" is dominated by the lightest \"ρ\" and \"a\" resonances, or by scaling effective Lagrangian parameters from QCD. In walking technicolor, however, the physics at the TeV scale and beyond must be quite different from that of QCD-like theories. In particular, the vector and axial-vector spectral functions cannot be dominated by just the lowest-lying resonances. It is unknown whether higher energy contributions to formula_45 are a tower of identifiable ρ and \"a\" states or a smooth continuum. It has been conjectured that ρ and \"a\" partners could be more nearly degenerate in walking theories (approximate parity doubling), reducing their contribution to \"S\". Lattice calculations are underway or planned to test these ideas and obtain reliable estimates of \"S\" in walking theories.\n\nThe restriction on the \"T\"-parameter poses a problem for the generation of the top-quark mass in the ETC framework. The enhancement from walking can allow the associated ETC scale to be as large as a few TeV, but—since the ETC interactions must be strongly weak-isospin breaking to allow for the large top-bottom mass splitting—the contribution to the \"T\" parameter, as well as the rate for the decay formula_46, could be too large.\n\nEarly studies generally assumed the existence of just one electroweak doublet of technifermions, or of one techni-family including one doublet each of color-triplet techniquarks and color-singlet technileptons (four electroweak doublets in total). The number \"N\" of electroweak doublets determines the decay constant \"F\" needed to produce the correct electroweak scale, as \"F\" = \"F\"/ = 246 GeV/. In the minimal, one-doublet model, three Goldstone bosons (technipions, π) have decay constant \"F\" = \"F\" = 246 GeV and are eaten by the electroweak gauge bosons. The most accessible collider signal is the production through formula_18 annihilation in a hadron collider of spin-one formula_48, and their subsequent decay into a pair of longitudinally polarized weak bosons, formula_49 and formula_50. At an expected mass of 1.5–2.0 TeV and width of 300–400 GeV, such \"ρ\"’s would be difficult to discover at the LHC. A one-family model has a large number of physical technipions, with \"F\" = \"F\"/ = 123 GeV. There is a collection of correspondingly lower-mass color-singlet and octet technivectors decaying into technipion pairs. The \"π\"’s are expected to decay to the heaviest possible quark and lepton pairs. Despite their lower masses, the \"ρ\"’s are wider than in the minimal model and the backgrounds to the π decays are likely to be insurmountable at a hadron collider.\n\nThis picture changed with the advent of walking technicolor. A walking gauge coupling occurs if \"α\" lies just below the IR fixed point value \"α\", which requires either a large number of electroweak doublets in the fundamental representation of the gauge group, e.g., or a few doublets in higher-dimensional TC representations. In the latter case, the constraints on ETC representations generally imply other technifermions in the fundamental representation as well. In either case, there are technipions \"π\" with decay constant formula_51. This implies formula_52 so that the lightest technivectors accessible at the LHC—ρ, ω, \"a\" (with \"I\" \"J\" = 1 1, 0 1, 1 1)—have masses well below a TeV. The class of theories with many technifermions and thus formula_51 is called low-scale technicolor.\n\nA second consequence of walking technicolor concerns the decays of the spin-one technihadrons. Since technipion masses formula_54 (see Eq. (4)), walking enhances them much more than it does other technihadron masses. Thus, it is very likely that the lightest \"M\" < 2\"M\" and that the two and three-π decay channels of the light technivectors are closed. This further implies that these technivectors are very narrow. Their most probable two-body channels are formula_55, \"W\" \"W\", γ π and γ \"W\". The coupling of the lightest technivectors to \"W\" is proportional to \"F/F\". Thus, all their decay rates are suppressed by powers of formula_56 or the fine-structure constant, giving total widths of a few GeV (for \"ρ\") to a few tenths of a GeV (for \"ω\" and ).\n\nA more speculative consequence of walking technicolor is motivated by consideration of its contribution to the \"S\"-parameter. As noted above, the usual assumptions made to estimate \"S\" are invalid in a walking theory. In particular, the spectral integrals used to evaluate \"S\" cannot be dominated by just the lowest-lying ρ and \"a\" and, if \"S\" is to be small, the masses and weak-current couplings of the \"ρ\" and \"a\" could be more nearly equal than they are in QCD.\n\nLow-scale technicolor phenomenology, including the possibility of a more parity-doubled spectrum, has been developed into a set of rules and decay amplitudes. An April 2011 announcement of an excess in jet pairs produced in association with a W boson measured at the Tevatron has been interpreted by Eichten, Lane and Martin as a possible signal of the technipion of low-scale technicolor.\n\nThe general scheme of low-scale technicolor makes little sense if the limit on formula_57 is pushed past about 700 GeV. The LHC should be able to discover it or rule it out. Searches there involving decays to technipions and thence to heavy quark jets are hampered by backgrounds from formula_58 production; its rate is 100 times larger than that at the Tevatron. Consequently, the discovery of low-scale technicolor at the LHC relies on all-leptonic final-state channels with favorable signal-to-background ratios: formula_59, formula_60 and formula_61.\n\nTechnicolor theories naturally contain dark matter candidates. Almost certainly, models can be built in which the lowest-lying technibaryon, a technicolor-singlet bound state of technifermions, is stable enough to survive the evolution of the universe. If the technicolor theory is low-scale (formula_51), the baryon's mass should be no more than 1–2 TeV. If not, it could be much heavier. The technibaryon must be electrically neutral and satisfy constraints on its abundance. Given the limits on spin-independent dark-matter-nucleon cross sections from dark-matter search experiments (formula_63 for the masses of interest), it may have to be electroweak neutral (weak isospin \"I\" = 0) as well. These considerations suggest that the \"old\" technicolor dark matter candidates may be difficult to produce at the LHC.\n\nA different class of technicolor dark matter candidates light enough to be accessible at the LHC was introduced by Francesco Sannino and his collaborators. These states are pseudo Goldstone bosons possessing a global charge that makes them stable against decay.\n\n"}
{"id": "47267338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47267338", "title": "Tephriphonolite", "text": "Tephriphonolite\n\nTephriphonolite is a mafic to intermediate extrusive igneous rock in composition between phonotephrite and phonolite. It contains 9 to 14% alkali content and 48 to 57% silica content (see TAS diagram).\n\nTephriphonolite has been found, for example, at Colli Albani volcano, Italy and in the Asuncion Rift, Paraguay.\n"}
{"id": "48615186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48615186", "title": "Thomas Harvey Johnston", "text": "Thomas Harvey Johnston\n\nThomas Harvey Johnston (9 December 1881 – 30 August 1951) was an Australian biologist and parasitologist. He championed the efforts to eradicate the invasive prickly pear.\n\nJohnston was born in 1881 at Balmain, Sydney, Australia the son of Thomas Johnston, an Irish-born foreman mason, and his Australian-born wife Mary, née McLeod. On 1 January 1907, Johnston married Alice Maude Pearce at Petersham, New South Wales, Australia. On 30 August 1951, he died of coronary thrombosis at Adelaide, South Australia. He was survived by his wife and daughter. His son predeceased him. He was cremated.\n\nJohnston attended Sydney Teachers College and received the Jones Memorial Medal. He then attended the University of Sydney and earned a BA in 1906, the BSc and MA in 1907 and received the DSc in parasitology in 1911. From 1903 to 1906, Johnston taught at Fort Street Public School. He then accepted a position at Sydney Technical College and from 1907 to 1908 taught zoology and physiology. In 1908, he was appointed assistant director at Bathurst Technical College.\n\nIn 1909, Johnston accepted a position as assistant microbiologist at the New South Wales Health Department in the Bureau of Microbiology. The next appointment came in 1911, at the University of Queensland as lecturer in charge of the department of biology. In 1919, Johnston was promoted to professor.\n\nIn 1922, Johnston received an appointment at the University of Adelaide as professor of zoology and remained in that position for the rest of his life. From 1928 to 1934, he held the position as professor of botany.\n\nIn 1912, Johnston was appointed chairman for a committee, the Prickly-Pear Travelling Commission, formed to investigate control measures for the prickly pear cactus. In 1788, Governor Philip and the early colonists are credited with the introduction of the prickly pear to Australia. The plant came from Brazil to Sydney and the prickly pear grew in Sydney. The plant was introduced for use as an agricultural fence and with hopes to establish a cochineal dye industry. Cochineal dye is the red or carmine dye used to colour the historic British \"Red Coats\". The prickly pears spread from New South Wales and caused great ecological damage in the eastern states of Australia. From 1912 to 1914, Johnston travelled abroad with Henry Tryon to study the problem. The team became known as \"The Prickly Pair\". Johnston and Tryon successfully introduced \"Dactylopius ceylonicus\", the cochineal insect that was effective in the control of one species of the pear \"Opuntia monacantha\".\n\nIn 1920 Johnston was appointed controller of the Commonwealth prickly pear laboratories. During 1920 to 1922, Johnston travelled overseas yet again to seek a solution to the prickly pear problem. Johnston travelled from Sydney to Java, Ceylon, Europe, the US, Mexico and South America. Efforts had been made before to introduce the insect \"Cactoblastis cactorum\" in 1914, and it did feed on the prickly pear but would die out in 1921. In 1924, the insect \"Cactoblastis cactorum\" was reintroduced, this time with success and destruction of the prickly pear.\n\nJohnston was keenly interested in the marine ecology of Caloundra and the southern Great Barrier Reef islands. He performed studies on the flora and fauna of Caloundra. He identified \"Pseudobonellia\", a new echiuroid genus from the Great Barrier Reef. In 1920, Johnston identified a new species of \"Bonellia\" from Port Jackson.\n\nJohnston had an interest in descriptive parasitology, and was a leading world expert on helminthology. He was a frequent and prolific contributor of new material to the collections of the South Australian Museum. In Queensland, he conducted studies in diverse areas as cattle tick, blowflies, muscidae, onchoceriasis and fish epidemics. Working with John Burton Cleland he studied worm nests in cattle due to \"Filaria gibsoni\". He explored the internal parasites of Australian birds that included the emu. He studied the parasite mallophaga from marsupials. Johnston made significant contributions to the study of flies and parasitic worms, including \"Habronema\" and \"Musca domestica\" or housefly.\nHe sought to develop a solution to the sheep maggot fly problem and the utilization of the chalcid wasp parasite as a possible answer.\n\nJohnston pursued the parasitology of freshwater fish. The first paper of this kind was an account of an epidemic of \"Saprolegnia\" in the fishes of the Thomson River in Queensland.\nJames Douglas Ogilby provided some of the fish identifications and Johnston quoted his account of the infection near Sydney.\nSome years later, Johnston worked with Thomas Lane Bancroft's daughter Jo, Mabel Josephine Bancroft, and investigated parasites in freshwater fish in the rivers near Queensland and described several new species of sporozoans. Johnston and Bancroft noted in the paper that the specimens were identified by James Douglas Ogilby of the Queensland Museum and as tribute for these efforts names one of the parasites, \"Myxosoma ogilbyi,\" in his honour. In a work published in 1921, the team summarized their experience of episodes of mass mortality in the fishes of Queensland rivers and ventured a theory for the possible causes.\n\nLater at the University of Adelaide, Johnston published with Patricia Mawson, daughter of Douglas Mawson, work on nematodes that included descriptions of new species found in freshwater fish of Australia. Several nematode species were discovered in the birds of Australia.\n\nFrom 1915 to 1916, Johnston was president of the Royal Society of Queensland. From 1916 to 1917, he was president of the Queensland Field Naturalists' Club. He was a founding member of the Great Barrier Reef Committee and a member of the Australian National Research Council until his death.\n\nIn 1929, Johnston was invited by Douglas Mawson to serve as chief zoologist with the British Australian and New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition.\n\nDuring 1929 to 1931, he went on two voyages aboard the RRS \"Discovery\". He was editor of the zoological and botanical reports. From 1929 to 1937, he accompanied John Burton Cleland in expeditions to Central Australia.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "307869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307869", "title": "Transatlantic crossing", "text": "Transatlantic crossing\n\nThe Transatlantic crossings are passages of passengers and cargo across the Atlantic Ocean between Europe or Africa and the Americas. The majority of passenger traffic is across the North Atlantic between Western Europe and North America. Centuries after the dwindling of sporadic Viking trade with Markland, a regular and lasting transatlantic trade route was established in 1566 with the Spanish West Indies fleets, following the Voyages of Christopher Columbus.\n\nPrior to the 19th century, transatlantic crossings were undertaken in sailing ships, and the journeys were time consuming and often perilous. The first trade route across the Atlantic was inaugurated by Spain a few decades after the European Discovery of the Americas, with the establishment of the West Indies fleets in 1566, a convoy system that regularly linked its territories in the Americas with Spain for over two centuries. Portugal created a similar maritime route between its ports in Brazil and the Portuguese mainland. Other colonial powers followed, such as Britain, France and the Netherlands, as they colonized the New World.\n\nTransatlantic crossings became faster, safer, and more reliable with the advent of steamships in the 19th century. Grand ocean liners began making regularly scheduled crossings, and soon it became a symbol of national and company status to build the largest, fastest, and most luxurious ocean liner for transatlantic crossings. The United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy built the most famous ocean liners. Examples of some famous transatlantic liners are RMS \"Titanic\" (had only made one voyage that was unsuccessful due to striking an iceberg), , , , , , , , , , , , \"Queen Elizabeth 2\", and .\n\nThe Blue Riband is awarded for the record fastest crossing by transatlantic liner. The current eastbound record was set by the American ocean liner \"United States\" in July 1952: the ship made the crossing in 3 days, 10 hours, 40 minutes. \"Guinness Book of World Records\" has awarded world records to various classes such as luxury liners, sail boats, and rowing boats. Because of the shape of the continents and the assistance (or resistance) of ocean currents, the Eastbound crossing is quicker than the Westbound crossing.\n\nDuring World War II the transatlantic crossing was very important for the United Kingdom as much of Europe had been taken over by Germany and its allies preventing trade and supplies; the struggle is known as the Battle of the Atlantic.\n\nIn 1952, Alain Bombard crossed the Atlantic from East to West, spending 113 days adrift in a Zodiac, \"L'Hérétique\".\n\nIn 1956, Henri Beaudout crossed the Atlantic from West to East, from Halifax to Falmouth, on a raft of wood and rope, \"L’Égaré II\", in 88 days.\n\nIn 1988, the junk raft, \"Son of Town Hall\", crossed the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\nIn 2011, Anthony Smith and the Antiki crossed the Atlantic.\n\nOn June 13, 2003, the French rower Maud Fontenoy started an eastward crossing of the Atlantic from Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. She reached A Coruña in Spain on October 10, becoming the first woman to accomplish this feat.\n\nOn October 26, 2010, the Polish sexagenarian Aleksander Doba was the first recorded individual to complete a non-stop transatlantic crossing by kayak. He departed Dakar, Senegal and arrived in Brazil 99 days later.\n\nIn 1997, the first East–West Atlantic Rowing Race took place, running from the Canary Islands to the Caribbean. It now runs once every two years or so.\n\nIn 2006, the first West–East North Atlantic Rowing Race took place, running from New York City to Falmouth, Cornwall in the UK.\n\nTransatlantic flight surpassed ocean liners as the predominant mode of crossing the Atlantic in the mid 20th century. In 1919, the American NC-4 became the first airplane to cross the Atlantic (but in multiple stages). Later that year, a British Vickers Vimy piloted by Alcock and Brown made the first non-stop transatlantic flight from Newfoundland to Ireland. Also in 1919, the British were the first to cross the Atlantic in an airship when the R34 captained by Major George Herbert Scott of the Royal Air Force with his crew and passengers flew from East Fortune, Scotland to Mineola, Long Island, covering a distance of about in about four and a half days; he then made a return trip to England, thus also completing the first double crossing of the Atlantic (east–west–east). In 1927, Charles Lindbergh made the first solo non-stop transatlantic flight in an airplane (between New York City and Paris). The second solo piloting, and the first to carry a passenger, was Clarence Duncan Chamberlin on June 6, 1927. Edward R. Armstrong proposed a string of anchored \"seadromes\" to refuel planes in a crossing.\n\nThe first serious attempt to take a share of the transatlantic passenger market away from the ocean liners was undertaken by Germany. In the 1930s, Germany crossed the Atlantic with Zeppelins that could carry about 60 passengers in a similar luxurious style to the ocean liners. However, the \"Hindenburg\" disaster in 1937 put an end to transatlantic Zeppelin flights.\n\nOn June 1, 1944, two K-class blimps from Blimp Squadron ZP-14 of the United States Navy (USN) completed the first transatlantic crossing by non-rigid airships. The two K-ships (K-123 and K-130) left South Weymouth, MA on May 28, 1944 and flew approximately 16 hours to Naval Station Argentia, Newfoundland. From Argentia, the blimps flew approximately 22 hours to Lajes Field on Terceira Island in the Azores. The final leg of the first transatlantic crossing was about a 20-hour flight from the Azores to Craw Field in Port Lyautey (Kenitra), French Morocco.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, the predominance of ocean liners began to wane when larger, jet-powered airplanes began carrying passengers across the ocean in less and less time. The speed of crossing the ocean therefore became more important than the style of crossing it. The maturing passenger Jet Age starting with the Boeing 707 reduced the typical crossing time between London and New York City to between 6.5 and 8 hours, depending on weather conditions. By the 1970s, supersonic Concorde airplanes could connect the two cities in less than 4 hours, and only one ocean liner, \"Queen Elizabeth 2\" remained on the transatlantic route for those who favored the slower style of travel. \n\nThe economics of commercial transatlantic flying have evolved markedly since the 1950s; the introduction of widebody airliners (such as the Boeing 747 and Douglas DC-10) in the early 1970s made affordable transatlantic travel to the masses a reality. Since the 1990s, the high reliability of modern jet engines has meant that twin engine jet aircraft such as the Boeing 767, Boeing 777 and Airbus A330 have largely taken over on transatlantic routes from quad-engine jets, whilst the supersonic Concorde was ultimately doomed by its high running costs, leading to its retirement in 2003.\n\nTransatlantic cables are cables that have been laid along the ocean floor to connect North America and Europe. Before the advent of radio, the only means of communication across the Atlantic Ocean was to physically connect the continents with a transatlantic telegraph cable, the first of which was installed from Valentia, Ireland to Heart's Content, Newfoundland in 1858. The first transatlantic telephone cable, TAT-1, was installed in 1955. The first transatlantic fiber optic cable, TAT-8, was installed in 1988. The exchange rate between the United States dollar and British pound is still colloquially known as \"cable\" by financial marketeers, from the early use of the transatlantic cable for this purpose.\nTransatlantic radio communication was first accomplished on December 12, 1901 by Guglielmo Marconi who, using a temporary receiving station at Signal Hill, Newfoundland, received a Morse code signal representing the letter \"S\" sent from Poldhu, in Cornwall, United Kingdom. Guglielmo Marconi initiated commercial transatlantic radio communications between his high power long wave wireless telegraphy stations in Clifden Ireland and Glace Bay, Nova Scotia on 17 October 1907.\n\nAmateur radio operators are usually credited with the discovery of transatlantic radio communication in the shortwave bands. The first successful transatlantic tests were conducted by radio amateurs in December 1921 operating in the 200 meter medium-wave band, the shortest wavelength then available to amateurs. In 1922 hundreds of North American amateurs were heard in Europe at 200 meters and at least 20 North American amateurs heard amateur signals from Europe. The first two way transatlantic shortwave radio contacts were completed by radio amateurs in November 1923, on 110 meters.\n\nMarconi initiated the first commercial shortwave transatlantic radio communication between the UK to Canada using his \"Beam Wireless Service\" which went into commercial operation on 25 October 1926. Shortwave radio vastly increased the speed and capacity of transatlantic communications at dramatically reduced cost compared to telegraph cable and long wave radio.\n\nTelstar was the first communications satellite to provide commercial transatlantic communications. It was launched by on July 10, 1962, the first privately sponsored space launch. Communications satellites vastly increased the speed and quality of transatlantic communication, but transatlantic fiber optic cables have carried the vast majority of transatlantic communications traffic since the early 1990s.\n\nThe Transatlantic Tunnel is a theoretical structure proposed several times since the late 19th century. It would be a tunnel that spans the Atlantic Ocean between New York City and the United Kingdom or France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23431856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23431856", "title": "Unitary Federation of Petroleum and Gas Workers", "text": "Unitary Federation of Petroleum and Gas Workers\n\nUnitary Federation of Petroleum and Gas Workers (, \"FUTPV\") is the main national labor union of workers in the petroleum and gas industries in Venezuela. It represents over 67,000 workers, including most workers of PDVSA.\n\n"}
{"id": "43837084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43837084", "title": "West Australian Current", "text": "West Australian Current\n\nThe West Australian Current (or the Western Australian Current), is a cool surface current of the Southern Ocean and Southern Indian Ocean.\n\nIt starts as the Southern Indian Ocean Current, a part of the larger Antarctic Circumpolar Current (also known as the West Wind Drift). As the current approaches Western Australia, it turns north, parallel to the western coast of Australia, and becomes the West Australian Current.\n\nThe current is mainly seasonal, being weaker in winter and stronger in summer, and is affected by the winds in that area.\n\nIn addition to the West Australian Current flowing on the Western Australian Coast, the Leeuwin Current and Southern Australian Countercurrent, also flow along this coast, with the former flowing in the opposite direction. These 3 currents together contribute greatly to the rainfall and climate in the southwest region of Western Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "48937169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48937169", "title": "Wildlife of the Channel Islands of California", "text": "Wildlife of the Channel Islands of California\n\nThe wildlife of the Channel Islands of California is wide and diverse, including many endemic species. While the land wildlife is slightly limited, there being only one large, naturally predatory, and native mammal, the small island fox, marine life can include anything from kelp forests to great white sharks.\n\nFlora on the Channel Islands include a unique subspecies of pine, oak, and the island tree mallow. Santa Rosa Island holds two groves of the Torrey pine subspecies \"Pinus torreyana\" var. \"insularis\", which is endemic to the island. Torrey pines are the United States' rarest pine species. The islands also house many rare and endangered species of plants, including the island barberry, the island rushrose, and the Santa Cruz Island lace pod. Giant kelp forests surround the islands and act as a source of nutrition and protection for other animals.\n\nInvasive species, such as the Australian blue gum tree, olive tree, sweet fennel and Harding grass threaten native species through competition for light, nutrients, and water. The Australian blue gum, for example, releases toxins in its leaf litter which prevents other species of plants from growing in the soil surrounding it. The blue gum, as well as other species including the Harding grass, are much more flammable and better adapted to wildfires than native species.\n\nKelp forests and many unique species of seaweed, sea urchin, and other marine plants live on the ocean floor.\n\nIn the waters of the Channel Islands, sea lions are very common. Sharks like great whites, bulls, and tigers roam the seas. Orcas also appear near the Channel Islands.\n\nThe Channel Islands and the waters surrounding hold many endemic species and subspecies of animals, including fauna such as the Channel Islands deer mouse, the Channel Islands spotted skunk, island scrub jay, San Clemente loggerhead shrike, and San Clemente Bell's sparrow. Many species of large marine mammals, including pacific gray whales, blue whales, humpback whales, and California sea lions breed or feed close to the Channel Islands. Current occurrences, if still happen, of the critically endangered North Pacific right whales, and historically abundant Steller's sea lions in these areas are unknown. Seabirds, including the western gulls, bald eagles, pigeon guillemonts, and Scripps's murrelets use the islands as well for shelter and breeding grounds. The endemic island fox is California's smallest natural canine and has rebounded from its near extinction in the late 1990s. Several endemic reptile species, including the island fence lizard and island night lizard, live on the islands, as well as the endemic amphibian the Channel Islands slender salamander .\n\nNon-native species can include feral cows, sheep, and pigs.\n\nThe lowest on the food chain are the plants. Deer mice and small vermint follow, along with insects, lizards, and small birds, mammals and fish, like the spotted skunk.\n\nThe predatory animals include sharks, orcas(the apex predator), eagles, and foxes.\n\nThe island fox eats fruits, insects, birds, eggs, crabs, lizards, and small mammals, including deer mice.\n\nThere are only three native land mammals on the archipelago: The island deer mouse, the island spotted skunk, and the island fox.\n\nThe deer mouse exists on all eight islands. It can survive in conditions with a significant lack of fresh water, for example, Santa Barbara and Anacapa islands, the two Channel Islands without rivers.\n\nThe spotted skunk is only confirmed to exist on two islands: Santa Cruz Island and Santa Rosa Island. It used to be confirmed to exist on a third island, San Miguel Island, but is now presumed, but not confirmed, extinct. Santa Cruz Island houses a fair skunk number, but, however, Santa Rosa Island is home to over three thousand skunks.\n\nThe island fox is the largest native land mammal, existing on six out of the eight Channel Islands: Santa Cruz, Santa Rosa, San Miguel, Santa Catalina, San Clemente, and San Nicholas. It does not exist on the Santa Barbara and Anacapa islands, though, due to the lack of fresh water.\n"}
