{"id": "43815485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43815485", "title": "33 Savaiye", "text": "33 Savaiye\n\n33 Savaiye is a religious work written by Guru Gobind Singh which is included in Dasam Granth, second scripture of Sikhs. It is present after Sabad Patshahi 10 and continued with Khalsa Mahima. It explains qualities of Supreme and Khalsa. It also rejects Idolatry and various Hindu Rituals including various Avatar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9197589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9197589", "title": "Adaheli", "text": "Adaheli\n\nAdaheli was the personification of the sun in the mythology of the Orinoco region of South America. He was troubled by the fact that there were no people on Earth, and so he descended to earth to create them. Shortly thereafter, people first appeared, born from the cayman. All of the original women were quite beautiful. However, some of the men were so ugly that the others found them to be literally intolerable. This led to the separation of the original people, with the ugly men going to the east with their wives and the others going to the west with their wives.\n"}
{"id": "33349327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33349327", "title": "Albert Kalthoff", "text": "Albert Kalthoff\n\nAlbert Kalthoff (5 March 1850, Barmen – 11 May 1906, Bremen) was a German Protestant theologian, who along with (1874-1959), (1867-1958), (1833-1916) and (1866-1939) formed a group in Bremen, named the (German Monists League), who no longer believed in Jesus as a historical figure.\n\nKalthoff criticized what he regarded as the romanticist and sentimental image of Jesus as a \"great personality\" of history developed by German liberal theologians, including Albert Schweitzer who noted Kalthoff in his work \"The Quest of the Historical Jesus\". In Kalthoff's views, it was the early church that created the New Testament, not the reverse; the early Jesus movement was socialist, expecting a social reform and a better world, which was combined with the Jewish apocalyptic belief in a Messiah. Kalthoff saw Christianity as a social psychosis. (Per Arthur Drews, \"The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus in Past and Present\" - see the section on Kalthoff) Arthur Drews was influenced by Kalthoff.\n\nBruno Bauer (1809–1882) was the first academic theologian posit the ahistoricity of Jesus. However his scholarship was buried by German academia, and he remained a pariah, until Albert Kalthoff rescued his works from neglect and obscurity. Kalthoff revived Bruno Bauer's Christ Myth thesis in his \"Das Christus-Problem. Grundlinien zu einer Sozialtheologie\" (\"The Problem of Christ: Principles of a Social Theology\") and \"Die Entstehung des Christentums, Neue Beiträge zum Christusproblem\" (\"The Rise of Christianity\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4574508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4574508", "title": "Aryadeva", "text": "Aryadeva\n\nĀryadeva (fl. 3rd century CE), was a disciple of Nagarjuna and author of several important Mahayana Madhyamaka Buddhist texts. He is also known as Kanadeva, recognized as the 15th patriarch in Chan Buddhism, and as \"Bodhisattva Deva\" in Sri Lanka.\n\nAryadeva was born as the son of a Sinhalese king and is considered the cofounder of Mahayana philosophy.\n\nA biography that was translated by Kumarajiva into Chinese states that Aryadeva was born into a South Indian Brahmin family.\n\nAryadeva was a student of Nagarjuna and contributed significantly to the Madhyamaka school. According to the Drikung Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism, Garchen Rinpoche is the current incarnation of Aryadeva.\n\nMost of Aryadeva's works were not preserved in the original Sanskrit, but they mainly survived in Tibetan and Chinese translations.\n\nHis best-known text is probably the Catusataka (400 verses), in sixteen chapters of twenty-five stanzas each.\n\nSeveral important works of esoteric Buddhism (most notably the \"Caryamelapakapradipa\" or \"Lamp that Integrates the Practices\") are attributed to Aryadeva. Contemporary research suggests that these works are datable to a significantly later period in Buddhist history (late ninth or early tenth century), but the tradition of which they are a part maintains that they are (at least in some measure) the work of the Madhyamaka Aryadeva. Traditional historians (for example, the 17th century Tibetan Tāranātha), aware of the chronological difficulties involved, account for the anachronism via a variety of theories, such as the propagation of later writings via mystical revelation. A useful summary of this tradition, its literature, and historiography may be found in Wedemeyer 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26493792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26493792", "title": "Australian Jewish Democratic Society", "text": "Australian Jewish Democratic Society\n\nThe Australian Jewish Democratic Society (AJDS), a secular organisation, was formed in Melbourne Australia in 1984 to promote free discussion and action on Jewish and general social and political issues. It remains silent on the plight of Middle Eastern Jews who were evicted from their homelands to Israel. It grew out of a profound concern at the continuing Arab–Israeli conflict, though some of its members had been active on the left since at least the 1930s in Europe. Others had been born in Israel or Australia, or spent considerable time in Israel. Others came out of the anti-Vietnam war and peace movements. Some key members had strong links to the Israeli peace movement, the Jewish left, Labor Zionism, or other Jewish religious and cultural traditions. More recently, members with strong environmental concerns have become active.\n\nThere had been a number of predecessor organisations in the past, though these had been strongly stigmatised in the McCarthyite atmosphere of the 1950s, when communal leadership in those years took an increasingly hard line on the Israel-Palestine issue.\n\nAfter the 1967 Six-Day War, the sharp decline in right-wing anti-Semitism, the rise of left-wing anti-Zionism, and the increased affluence of the community all tended to confirm and reinforce a Jewish move to the political right in a similar fashion to what occurred in other countries. At the same time, a small number of groups arose, including the Sydney Jewish Left and Salaam-Shalom in Sydney, Jewish Radical Association, Paths to Peace, and Australian Friends of Peace Now.\n\nIn 1984, AJDS established itself as \"A progressive voice among Jews\" and \"A Jewish voice among progressives\",and alongside public fora and debates, also hosted a radio program on the community radio station 3CR, despite opposition from Maoists and others. In the late 1980s, over 550 people signed a public advertisement AJDS placed an advertisement in the \"Jerusalem Post\" saying that many Australian Jews rejected Israel's refusal to negotiate land for peace. In August 1989, AJDS issued a 12 page pamphlet titled A Case for Israel's Future.\n\nDespite its clear attachment and concern for the future of Israel it was claimed that 'AJDS members [are] not grounded in Jewish life, coming to their analysis of events from outside. Thus ... they seem unable to grasp the transcendental attachment Jews outside Israel have towards the Jewish State'. (Sam Lipski, Australian Jewish Times, 16 July 1987) This is despite the fact that much of what AJDS stands for is familiar to the Israeli left. Such statements are characteristic of attacks on Jewish critics of Israel, including those who belong to the 'pro-Israel' camp, including the strongly Zionist, but critical J Street lobby in the US.\n\nAJDS takes an active role in presenting an alternative viewpoint within the Australian Jewish community and to the community at large. It has taken positions opposing the Gaza Siege and the Occupation, including settlements, and is outspoken in support of civil rights in Israel and the occupied territories. However, it has made clear that its opposition is not to the state of Israel, but to the politics of successive Israeli governments, the settler movement, as well as the move to extremism in Palestinian organisations.\n\nDuring the Gulf War, it argued in favour of the military removal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait. AJDS launched a petition, calling on Australians of different viewpoints to oppose any local manifestations of racism or ethnic or religious discrimination linked to the Middle East crisis. Following the conclusion of the Gulf War, AJDS renewed its call for political negotiations and mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestinians leading to the satisfaction of both Israeli security requirements and Palestinian national rights.\n\nIn 1997, AJDS called on the Israeli Government to accept territorial compromise, and to recognise the right of the Palestinians to a State of their own and more recently, has strongly opposed the actions in Gaza, Lebanon and elsewhere. On 1 June 2010, it issued a strong statement against Israeli action against Israeli actions in the Gaza Flotilla clash, calling it an act of terror and saying that \"Unless the Israeli government can convincingly back up its claims that the Gaza aid convoy was not a project for delivering humanitarian aid to Gaza, but in reality a front for violent action, it invites the condemnation of everyone who supports negotiated conflict resolution and reinforces the view that Israel's professed support for human rights is a sham.\"\n\nIn addition to frequently expressing views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the AJDS also promotes cooperation with broader social groups on a range of issues.\n\nAs part of its platform, the organisation has stated that \"We in AJDS believe that in a genuinely multicultural society like Australia, Jews should be concerned with Indigenous rights and the rights of other minorities. We have all complained at some time about the indifference of the world to the plight of the Jewish people at their most horrific period in human history. Neither can we then ignore the plight of other minorities\".\n\nDespite a vociferous campaign against its right to representation, in the 1990s, the AJDS succeeded in become an affiliate of the Jewish Community Council of Victoria.\n\nThe organisation has traditionally attempted to work with the following value, that it works with and represents\n\nMost recently, the organisation has stated its objectives \"to be a legitimate and responsible progressive Jewish voice raising awareness amongst policy and decision makers, political parties, social media, progressive Palestinian organisations, and thinking Jews about our three core issues – climate change, the middle east and social justice.\"\n\nOn 8 August 2010, the AJDS became the first Australian community-affiliated Jewish organisation to adopt the view that some boycotts of Israel may indeed be justified. Unlike the BDS position on Israel, the AJDS wants to concentrate on those who profit from the occupation. The decision culminated a 16-month process of discussion and expression of a wide range of views in its Newsletter.\n\nThe resolution thus rejected the Palestinian civil society version of Boycotts, Divestments and Sanctions (BDS): \"The AJDS is opposed to any Boycotts, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign aimed at the breadth of Israeli economic, cultural or intellectual activity\". The AJDS only supports \"selected BDS actions designed to bring about an end to the Israeli occupation, blockade and settlement on Palestinian lands lying outside of the June 1967 Israeli borders.\"\n\nWhile not reversing the AJDS's long-term opposition to blanket academic boycotts, the AJDS envisaged boycotting \"specific Israeli academics openly supportive of the Occupation.\" The organisation made it plain that nevertheless decision on any action would still need to be taken on a case-by-case basis.\n\nIn early 2013, AJDS also launched a Don't Buy Settlements Products campaign. In response to hostile statements from the Jewish Community Council of Victoria, the AJDS issued a statement in which it said that \"The JCCV, as the roof body of the Jewish community in Victoria, must recognise that our community is large and complex. There are innumerable different versions of Jewishness, Judaism, and relationships to Israel contained within it. It is not the role of the JCCV, or the different affiliates, to police what is an acceptable expression of Jewishness or Zionism. The JCCV should be focused on fostering an open, inclusive and dynamic Jewish community. Disaffiliating, or sanctioning, the AJDS would be a step in the wrong direction for a diverse, and politically pluralistic Victorian Jewish community, and for Jewish communities around the world.\"\n\nOn 15 May 2011, an op-ed from the AJDS was published in leading Australian newspapers including the \"Melbourne Age\" and the \"Sydney Morning Herald\". The article urged the Australian government to support a resolution in favour of the establishment of the state of Palestine at the UN General Assembly in September 2011.\n"}
{"id": "28050739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28050739", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Tanzania", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Tanzania\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Tanzania begins when the first pioneer, Claire Gung, arrived in 1950 in what was then called Tanganyika. With the first Tanganyikan to join the religion in 1952 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1952 of Tanganyika in Dar es Salaam. In 1956 a regional Bahá'í Assembly which included Tanganyika was elected. Later each of the constituent countries successively formed their own independent Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly and Tanganyika, with Zanzibar, formed its own in 1964 and it and the country was renamed Tanzania. Since 1986 the Bahá'ís have operated the Ruaha Secondary School as a Bahá'í school. In 2005 Bahá'ís were estimated at about 163,800 adherents.\n\nFor much of the history of the country it was known as Tanganyika. In 1964 Zanzibar was brought under governance with Tanganyika after which the country was renamed Tanzania by merging the two names. This article will follow the timeline of name usage.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The eighth and twelfth of the tablets mentioned Africa and were written on April 19, 1916 and February 15, 1917, respectively. Publication however was delayed in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions Bahá'ís traveling \"…especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Germany teachers and believers may travel to the continents of America, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all the continents and islands of the globe\" and \" …the anthem of the oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all the children of men, and the tabernacle of universal peace be pitched on the apex of America; thus Europe and Africa may become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new exhilaration….\"\n\nThe first Bahá'í to visit Tanganyika may have been Shoghi Effendi, head of the religion after the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Rúhíyyih Khanum, his wife from 1921, shared in 1961 that Shoghi Effendi, with a male companion from the holy family, travelled from Cape Town to Cairo in the early 1920s, at the end of the traditional safaris and the beginning of safaris done by car: \"He found an English hunter who took him from one point to another through the bush in East Africa - in Uganda, Kenya, or Tanganyika.\"\n\nAfter World War II Bahá'ís began to move to the region. In 1950 the British Bahá'í community was called upon by Shoghi Effendi to spearhead and co-ordinate five national Bahá'í communities in a Two Year Plan to spread the religion in Africa. Claire Gung, a German-born Bahá'í who had joined the religion in Torquay, left in 1950 to pioneer to Tanganyika as the region was called then. She was hired as an assistant teacher at a school in the Usambara Mountains region at Lushoto. For this she earned the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh. Jalal Nakhjavani (and family), the first contemporary Persian pioneer to settle in Africa, brother of Ali Nakhjavani, entered Tanganyika in January 1951. Hasan and Isobel Sabri left for Tanganyika in July 1951 from Egypt. After Louis George Gregory, the first Hand of the Cause of African descent, died on 30 July 1951, Tanganyikan Bahá'ís were among those who sent cablegrams for his memorial service. By August there were five pioneers. The first declaration of an indigenous Tanganyikan was noted on 21 August in the person of Denis Dudley-Smith Kutendele. During the formative years of Bahá'í communities in East Africa, the area received eighty pioneers, forty of whom were Persians. Forty percent of these were women. Tanganyika attracted the greatest number of Persian Bahá'ís, at eighteen. Wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa was observed to begin in 1950s and extend in the 1960s. In 1952 the first Local Spiritual Assembly of Tanganyika is established in Dar es Salaam. Its members were: Jalal Nakhjavani, Isobel Sabri, Hassan Sabri, Darakshandeh Khanum Nakhjavani, Leslie Matola, Denis Dudley-Smith Kutendele, Frahang Naimi Gopalkrishnan Nayer, and Eustace Mwalimu - Matola was of the Yao tribe and Mwalimu was of another tribe. In the summer of 1952 Denis Dudley-Smith Kutendele became the first pioneer to come from Tangayika when he moved to Nyasaland, now Malawi.\n\nIn 1953 Shoghi Effendi established a 10-year plan called the Ten Year Crusade. Waves of pioneers fanned out in a great effort to spread the religion. Ottilie Rhein pioneered to Mauritius, where she was named a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh, after having visited Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. After a regional conference in 1953 the first pioneer from Uganda went to Mwanza, Tanganyika and native Tito Wanantsusi joined him there. An early pioneer to Zanzibar was Salisa Karikal before the end of 1953.\n\nIn 1954 Dr. Farhūmand left Tehran and settled in the country with his three children; his wife followed. Dr. Farhūmand was particularly noted for his founding a multiracial clinic in Dar es Salaam and eventually served as personal physician to the first president of Tanzania. The death of a Persian Bahá'í, Mrs. Afrūḵta, widow of Yunis Khan, provided the opportunity for the still emerging Bahá'í community of Dar es Salaam to establish the first multiracial cemetery in that city.\n\nBy January 1956 the first Bahá'í arrived on Pemba Island. Later in 1956 Shoghi Effendi called for the establishment of regional national assemblies of Bahá'ís to supervise the developing communities in regions of Africa. In the case of central and east Africa the regional assembly included many countries whose names have changed since then but at the time they were known as Belgian Congo, Kenya, Tanganyika, Comoro Is., Ruanda-Urundi, Uganda, French Equatorial Africa, Seychelles, Zanzibar, were part of the regional national assembly for Central & East Africa. The convention was held in Kampala Uganda and delegates from Tanganyika and Zanzibar attended. Hasan Balyuzi, then Chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United Kingdom, whose task it was to target pioneers to Tanganyika, and Hand of the Cause Músá Banání represented Shoghi Effendi at the event. The members of the first regional national assembly were Ali Nakbjavani, Philip Hainsworth, Hassan Sabri, Oloro Epyeruj, Aziz Yazdi, Jalal Nakhjavani, Tito Wanantsusit, Sylvester Okurut, and Max Kenyerezi.\n\nThe regional assembly established short term schools - Tanganyika held its first weekend school in 1957. The school started on a Saturday afternoon with an opening devotional program and the first class, followed by dinner and an evening of social activity. Sunday morning and part of the afternoon was devoted to more classes, panel discussions, demonstrations of the various procedures of Baha'i administrative life, such as elections and consultations, and question and answer sessions, and ending with a devotional. In early 1957 Gung moved from Tanganyika to Uganda where she founded a multi-racial kindergarten nursery. In April the Local Spiritual Assembly of Dar es Salaam obtained their civic registration according to the Trustee's Incorporation Ordinance of Tanganyika. The community of Tanganyika held three weekend schools in 1959. Four Tanganyikan's attended the centralized school held in Kampala in 1960. Conferences on the progress of the religion were held in 1960 at Mashi and Tunga with attendance by Hand of Cause Músá Banáni.\n\nIn 1961 the Bahá'í House of Worship for Africa was dedicated. Over 1500 people attended. Among the Bahá'ís were some 225 African Bahá'ís from Uganda, Kenya, Tanganyika, Ruanda Urundi, Ethiopia, Northern Rhodesia, Swaziland, and South Africa; some 90 Persian Baha'is, sixty-two of whom flew from Tehran; the British national assembly, the mother assembly to that of Central and East Africa, sent one believer from each of its regions - England, Scotland and Wales, as well as one from Ireland; the American national assembly sent one of its members, Amos Gibson, himself a pioneer among the American Indian peoples. Following the dedications Rúhíyyih Khanum traveled through the area for a few months spending part of February in Tanganyika.\n\nThe growth in the religion across the regional assembly of Central and East Africa was called \"the most spectacular\" by the Custodians who carried on the work of the religion between death of Shoghi Effendi and the election of the Universal House of Justice. In 1962 there were many Bahá'ís in Central and East Africa (over 42,000). Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga toured the region in 1962 and addressed gatherings at variety of locations in Tanganyika such as Usambara Estate, where about 1,400 people heard him; at Dar es Salaam, where two meetings were held; at Kivukoni College and at Mnazi Mmoja attended by over 150 people.\n\nIn 1963 a survey was accomplished of the religion. In Tanzania it identifies there were 41 assemblies, 65 groups between 1 and 9 adults, and 48 isolated individuals.\n\n\nFollowing the election of the Universal House of Justice, the Bahá'í populations across the African countries began to form their own National Spiritual Assembly: In 1964 - Tanganyika and Zanzibar and nearby islands together formed their own assembly in time with the civic changes (including the new name of Tanzania) while others across sub-Saharan continued to form up to the 1990s. The national convention for the Bahá'ís of Tanganyika, Zanzibar, Mafia Island, and Pemba Island was held on May 1 though train breaks downs and flooded roads limited attendance by about half the delegates. The second half arrived the next morning reaching a total of 42 delegates. Hand of the Cause Músá Banání represented the Custodians and the newly elected Universal House of Justice at the convention. Many messages from Bahá'í communities arrived congratulating the Tanzanians from throughout the world which gave the delegates a grasp of breadth of the worldwide community. Those elected to the first national assembly were: H. S. Akida, Allen Elston, Mary Elston, Lamuka Mwangulu, Jalal Nakhjavani, Wallace NgaUomba, Glory Nyirenda, Ruhulah Yazdani and Jamsheed Samandari. As of 1965 there were 75 local assemblies and Bahá'ís in about 265 localities. The Bahá'í assembly of Karachi, Pakistan was host to A. A. Badii of the Sokoine University of Agriculture campus of Morogo and a member of the national assembly of Tanzania in August 1967 and the national center buildings was finished in 1968. Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga attended the 1968 convention at the new center. In 1969 the national assembly was officially recognized as a religious institution by the government.\n\nIn 1970 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum reprised her briefer tour from 1961 but this time took the month of September to tour through Tanzania as part of a trip through eastern Africa. She visited Tanga, Dar es Salaam spoke to an audience of over two hundred, a ten-minute interview on the Tanzania government radio station, and meta member of the Tanzanian Supreme Court, the Rotary Club, then to Mafia Island where a meeting was held in the municipal hall, down to eastern and southern parts of the country. In part she visited places she visited in 1962 including Mwami where a big tree served as shade for a meeting. In April 1972 a campaign to present the religion in the town of Arusha had posters, fliers, pamphlets, books, culminated in a talk, songs by a choir, and prayers all with translations in Swahili with invitations to follow-up informational meetings. In June the Hand of the Cause Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir visited Malaysia and while there encouraged Inparaju Chinniah to go to Africa as a travelling teacher where he spent six months in Tanzania on leave without salary and made a contribution to the work of the Faith there. In October celebrations for United Nations Day were carried out in three Baha'i communities in Tanzania with talks and films. In November an Indian Bahá'í, A. K. Forudi, toured the deep countryside near the border with Kenya promulgating the religion and offering classes on the religion to the Bahá'ís there. He returned in January 1973 and toured more villages. In early 1973 Ruhíyyíh Khanúm again visited in Tanzania. In July 1973 a delegation from the national assembly was able to meet with then President William Tolbert of Liberia during his visit to a conference in Tanzania and in the same month there was an informational booth at the fair held on Saba Saba Day. By the end of 1973 children's classes are being taught in Magamba-Kwalonge village.\n\nIn 1976 the national assembly produced a document \"Loyalty to Government: The Baha'i Viewpoint\" as well as participated in a national conference on the progress of the religion as part of a broad review across the region kicked off by an international conference held in Kenya. 1976 also saw the national assembly of Swaziland, Mozambique and Angola printing translations of Bahá'í prayers into the Yao language spoken in southern Tanzania and beyond. A Tanzanian delegation also met with Rashidi Kawawa and presented volume XIV of \"Bahá'í World\".\n\nThe Uganda-Tanzania War broke out in 1978 and Ugandan President Idi Amin was overthrown by early 1979. This precipitated the conditions resulting in the murder of Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga in September though details of the event weren't shared widespread until May 1980. The news of his murder was conveyed to the African office of the Continental Counselors by Claire Gung. Claire Gung herself died in 1985 entitled Knight of Bahá'u'lláh and \"Mother of Africa\". Amidst the tragedy in October 1979 the Bahá'ís of Tanzania hosted meetings at the national center for United Nations Day as well as a national conference on the progress of the religion in the country.\n\nIn 1986 the Universal House of Justice asked several African countries to develop audio-visual Mobile Teaching Institutes including Tanzania. The community also hosted a public meeting for the International Year of Peace at Dar es Salaam on November 29, 1986 called \"Perspectives on Peace\". In 1987 the sixth National Youth Conference in Kenya drew attendees from Tanzania among other places. In September 1987, the national assembly met with various institutions to plan two campaigns - one in the Kasulu district of the Kigoma region on Lake Tanganyika and the other in the Morogoro region in central Tanzania which including a traveling youth choir and slide show. By July 1988 several new local assemblies and Bahá'ís resulted. Back in June a Tanzanian national youth conference was hosted at the Ruaha Secondary School. A May 1989 campaign took place in the Same District aimed particularly at public school teachers.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. In 1979 in Tanzania the Bahá'í community participated in a seminar on alcoholism and drug abuse organized by the Karibu Tanzania Project under the Ministry of National Culture and Youth. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. This was the beginnings of ecological preservation projects by Bahá'ís began in this era. And a review looking past 1987 focused on deepening women in the understanding of the Bahá'í Faith because widens their perspective and gives them self-confidence. This can be done by holding women's conferences at local, regional, and perhaps, national levels to both deepen them in the Bahá'í teachings and to provide a forum for discussion of women's ideas and concerns. As a follow-up, the production and circulation of a women's magazine, focusing on the same topics as the conferences, and with special emphasis on nutrition education, would be helpful. A 1986 review noted three larger projects in Tanzania - a carpentry workshop, and a nursery school were up and running and plans for a technical/agricultural school were initiated. This school developed into the Ruaha Secondary School (see below.) Additionally, a program to train volunteer community health educators was conducted. In 1989 a Bahá'í expert and businessman in using appropriate technology from Swaziland traveled through six southern and eastern African countries including Tanzania training local people in the manufacture of several kinds of fence-making machines and other technologies in building, agriculture and water programs. The 10-day training courses were organized by the National Spiritual Assemblies in each of the six countries.\n\nSavanna Georgia native Mike O'Neal and son Darrell took on a multi-nation tour of Africa on behalf of the Universal House of Justice as part of a delegation of other African-American Bahai's who visited Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania in January 1999.\n\nA succession of newsletters relates the advancement of the implementation of the Ruhi Institute and other recent developments in Tanzania. The November 2001 newsletter reviews the recent plans affecting Bahá'í development from 1996. The March 2002 edition reviews the books of the Ruhi Institute and the role of tutors. The June 2002 focuses on the role of the tutor. The September 2002 newsletter calls for a campaign for more tutors especially in four regions of Tanzania as well as the opportunities and limitations of being a tutor. The February 2003 newsletter related the number of Ruhi Books and the categorization of a cluster, celebrated tutors who had facilitated many courses as well as news that some of the general public had taken part in study circles. The August 2003 newsletter focused on the case of the Nyaruyoba Cluster, found in Kibondo District (Kigoma) and noted it was the fastest advancing cluster in Tanzania. It also reviewed with some detail which locations had proceeded further through the books and goals to look forward to.\n\nThe Universal House of Justice released a letter \"to the world's religious leaders\" in April 2002. In Tanzania, the Baha'i community conveyed this letter to about 30 leaders. Some of the responses were positive - for example, Biharilal Keshavji Tanna of the Hindu Council of Tanzania wrote: \"I have read the document with great interest and feel that it contains a supremely important message not only to the leaders of the faith groups, but to all thinking individuals, who must shoulder the duty and responsibility of breaking down barriers amongst the various groups of the family of mankind.\"\n\nThe Bahá'ís worked with other religious leaders through the Christian Social Services Commission to work with people in the villages and sub-villages (vijiji and vitongoji) in preventing malarla.\n\nAn article by a university scholar in the \"Encyclopedia of Peace Education\" noticed that Bahá'ís contribute to peace through involvement in interfaith activities and dialogue to encourage religious tolerance, freedom of belief and elimination of religious prejudice and presented the efforts of the Baha'i community in Tanzania to hold a day for all religions to pray for peace on November 9, 2005.\n\nIn 2006 the Dar es Salaam Union Student Organization and the Bahá'í community of Tanzania sponsored a symposium which examined the theme \"The Role of Family and Youth in Establishing Brighter Communities.\" The event was held on United Nations Day and placed a number people on panels to discuss issues - Baha'is, government officers, Christian NGO leaders, youth leaders, an author, and a university professor and similar groups were in the audience.\n\nThe General Assembly of the United Nations, in its resolution 61/221 of 20 December 2006, (OP. 14) decided to convene in 2007 a high-level dialogue on interreligious and intercultural cooperation with formal and informal meetings. The President of the General Assembly appointed a Civil Society 'Task Force' to assist in the selection of participants and in identifying the sub-themes of the hearing. Bahá'ís were among the twenty speakers who represented a variety of cultural (all continents) and religious (Muslim, Christian, Jewish, Hindu, Jain, Baha'i) traditions. The second panel discussion addressed the theme of \"Best Practices and Strategies of Interreligious and Intercultural Cooperation Going Forward\". The Representative of the Bahá'í International Community in Tanzania underscored that the freedom to hold belief of one's choosing and to change it, was an essential attribute of the human conscience, and recommended concrete strategies to overcome ignorance and fanaticism.\n\nThe Ruaha Secondary School, is a Bahá'í school run by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Tanzania. Its development reaches back to 1985 when Bahá'í funds began the construction of the site, that the town of Iringa had donated using bricks that were fired onsite. With the approval of the Tanzanian Ministry of Education classes began on March 27, 1986. It added a year of school per year it was open aiming to include technical college level course work. By 1988 the school had 300 students. The curriculum, which is determined by the Ministry, includes English, Swahili, geography, history, agriculture, chemistry, physics, biology, political science, mathematics and religion - Christian, Islamic and Bahá'í studies included, by representatives of different religions. Each student takes part in regularly scheduled activities in self-reliance such as carrying bricks, planting bananas, digging foundations, watering and weeding his own trees, etc. Several of the founding staff were pioneers to Tanzania - one from Iran, one from Lebanon, one from Australia, and three from America. There was also local staff hired as teachers. The school is affiliated with a local teacher training college and also provides services to the local community.\n\nIn 1992 a paper was presented examining implementing computer technologies in an African context. In 1999 the school advertised for teachers and staff for Accounts/Computers and English/oral Education Teacher and was associated with the local Baha'i nursery school. It also advertised for Bahá'í Youth Year of Service opportunities. It also received a two-year, US$122,000 grant to build a new girls' dormitory capable of housing 120 students. The grant, for 141,630 Euros, was given by the Unity Foundation, a Bahá'í-inspired development agency in Luxembourg. The first installment of the grant was sent in 2001. The rest arrived by October 2002.\n\nOne of the unique aspects to the school culture is the total absence of caning. Instead the school emphasizes promoting virtues like patience, diligence, courtesy, trustworthiness, compassion and justice, while at the same time helping students developed the capacities, attitudes and skills - such as knowledge of appropriate agricultural techniques, computer literacy and basic commerce. The school also has a strong sense of mission when it comes to educating girls and proudly note its record of academic excellence. As part of the student government of the school, the Environmental Ambassadors project acts as a force in keeping the environment in pleasant condition. In every Form there are a number of Environmental Ambassadors chosen from volunteers.\n\nIn more recent years it has had support from Mona Foundation. A site master site plan was evolved with help from architect Ben Hufford, of Yost Grube Hall Architectural Firm in Portland, Oregon in February 2006. In August 2006 two trainers were sent to give a workshop for selected staff in the use of Microsoft Unlimited Potential curriculum. The foundation has contributed funds for construction of a boys' hostel (120 bed capacity), a kitchen/dry foods store, a water system (borehole well) and for purchase of a generator to provide electricity during outages.\n\nIn 1993, just over 50 years from the start of the presence of the religion in the region, there were an estimated 223,000 Bahá'ís in East Africa and 1,268 Bahá'í local spiritual assemblies. Bahá'ís could be found in 508 localities, of which 191 have spiritual assemblies in Tanzania. In 2000 - the World Christian Encyclopedia estimated some 140,600 Bahá'ís in Tanzania. In 2005 Association of Religion Data Archives, based on World Christian Encyclopedia, estimated some 163,800, Bahá'ís (0.4% of the national population.)\n\n"}
{"id": "8358730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8358730", "title": "Bembine Tablet", "text": "Bembine Tablet\n\nThe Bembine Tablet, the Bembine Table of Isis or the Mensa Isiaca (Isiac Tablet) is an elaborate tablet of bronze with enamel and silver inlay, most probably of Roman origin but imitating the ancient Egyptian style. It was named in the Renaissance after Cardinal Bembo, a celebrated antiquarian who acquired it after the 1527 sack of Rome. Thereafter it was used by antiquarians to penetrate the meaning of Egyptian hieroglyphs, which were not authentically deciphered until the 19th century. Owing to these prior misconceptions, the tablet became of importance to western esoteric traditions.\n\nThe \"Tablet\" is now regarded as of Roman rather than Egyptian origin, dating to some time in the first century CE. Little is known of its subsequent history until after the sack of Rome in 1527, when Cardinal Bembo acquired it from a certain locksmith or ironworker into whose hands it had fallen. After Bembo's death in 1547, the \"Tablet\" was acquired by the Gonzaga rulers of Mantua, remaining in their museum until the capture of the city in 1630 by Ferdinand II's troops. It then passed through various hands until the French conquest of Italy in 1797. Alexandre Lenoir mentioned in 1809 that it was on exhibition in the Bibliothèque Nationale. After Napoleon's downfall it was returned to Italy to become a central exhibit in what is now the Museo Egizio at Turin, where it has remained.\n\nThe tablet was made of bronze with enamel and silver inlay, the figures cut very shallow and the contours of most of them delineated with thin silver wire. The bases on which the figures sat were covered with silver, later torn away, and these sections are left blank in the engraved reproduction above. It is an important example of ancient metallurgy, its surface being decorated with a variety of metals including silver, gold, copper-gold alloy and various base metals. One of the metals employed is black, made by alloying copper and tin with small amounts of gold and silver, and then \"pickling\" it in organic acid. This black metal is possibly a variety of the \"Corinthian bronze\" described by Pliny and Plutarch.\n\nAlthough the scenes are Egyptianising, they do not depict Egyptian rites. Figures are shown with non-customary attributes, making it unclear which are divinities and which kings or queens. Egyptian motifs are used without rhyme or reason. However, the central figure is recognisable as Isis, suggesting that the \"Tablet\" originated in some Roman centre of her worship.\n\nOne of the earliest scholars to study the tablet was Pierio Valeriano Bolzani, who may have seen it before it became generally known after the sack of 1527. His \"Hieroglyphica sive de sacris Aegyptiorum litteris commentarii\" seems to have been composed earlier than that, although it was published much later. The work covered the whole field of the meaning of hieroglyphics, but lacked the scholarly rigour of the antiquarian Laurentius Pignorius (1571–1631), whose \"Characteres Aegyptii, hoc est Sacrorum, quibus Aegyptii utuntur, simulachrorum accurata delineatio et explicatio\" of 1608 investigates the origin of the tablet as an archaeological object. Avoiding interpretation of the meaning, the author expressed doubt as to whether the images were at all meaningful, in which he was subsequently proven right.\n\nLater in the 17th century, the Jesuit scholar Athanasius Kircher in \"Oedipus Aegyptiacus\" (1652) used the tablet as a primary source for developing his translations of hieroglyphics, which are now known to be incorrect. His book was the source for the English physician and philosopher Sir Thomas Browne, who, in his discourse \"The Garden of Cyrus\" (1658) alludes to \"the figures of Isis and Osyris, and the Tutelary spirits in the Bembine Table\". Seventeenth century scholars of comparative religion such as Kircher and Browne attempted to reconcile the wisdom of antiquity with Christianity, the Bembine Tablet was interpreted as a vehicle for such syncretic thought; thus Browne proposes in his discourse: \n\n\"Though he that considereth... the crosse erected upon a pitcher diffusing streams of water into two basins, with sprinkling branches in them, and all described upon a two-footed altar, as in the Hieroglyphicks of the brazen Table of \"Bembus\" will hardly decline all thought of Christian signality in them.\" \nKircher's speculations were used by several occultists, including Eliphas Levi, William Wynn Westcott and Manly P. Hall, as a key to interpreting the \"Book of Thoth\" or Tarot. Platonistic writer Thomas Taylor even claimed that this tablet formed the altar before which Plato stood as he received initiation within a subterranean hall in the Great Pyramid of Giza.\n"}
{"id": "21109208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21109208", "title": "Bishop of Elphin", "text": "Bishop of Elphin\n\nThe Bishop of Elphin () is an episcopal title which takes its name after the village of Elphin, County Roscommon, Ireland. In the Roman Catholic Church it remains a separate title, but in the Church of Ireland it has been united with other bishoprics.\n\nFrom the time Christianity first arrived in Ireland in the first half of the 5th century (in the form of Palladius's mission), the early church was centred around monastic settlements. Patrick founded such a settlement in an area known as Corcoghlan, now known as Elphin, in 434 or 435. Following the Synod of Rathbreasail in the year 1111, the Diocese of Elphin was formally established.\n\nFollowing the Reformation of the 16th century and related turmoil, there were parallel apostolic successions.\n\nIn the Church of Ireland, the bishopric continued until 1841 when it combined with Kilmore and Ardagh to form the united bishopric of Kilmore, Elphin and Ardagh.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, the title continues as a separate bishopric. The bishop's seat (cathedra) is located at the Cathedral Church of the Immaculate Conception in Sligo, Ireland. The current Bishop, the Most Reverend Kevin Doran was appointed to the post by Pope Francis on 14 May 2014. \n\n"}
{"id": "1082319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082319", "title": "Bishop of Salford", "text": "Bishop of Salford\n\nThe Bishop of Salford is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Salford in the Province of Liverpool, England.\n\nWith the gradual abolition of the legal restrictions on the activities of Catholics in England and Wales in the early 19th century, Rome decided to proceed to bridge the gap of the centuries from Queen Elizabeth I by instituting Catholic dioceses on the regular historical pattern. On 29 September 1850, Pope Pius IX issued the Bull \"Universalis Ecclesiae\" which created thirteen new dioceses which did not formally claim any continuity with the pre-Elizabethan English dioceses of which one of these was the diocese of Salford and went on to take up the reins of part of the former Vicariate Apostolic of the Lancashire District.\n\nIn the early period from 1850 the diocese was a suffragan of the Metropolitan See of Westminster, but a further development was its assignment under Pope Pius X, on 28 October 1911, to a newly created Province of Liverpool.\n\nAt the diocese's creation the territory assigned to it was the hundreds of Salford and Blackburn. The diocese currently covers an area of and consists of a large part of Greater Manchester and adjacent parts of Lancashire.\n\nThe see is in the Salford area of Greater Manchester, where the Bishop's \"cathedra\" or seat is located in the Salford Cathedral, which was dedicated on 14 June 1890.\n\nThe Bishop's residence is Wardley Hall, Worsley, Greater Manchester.\n\nThe current bishop is John Arnold, formerly an Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Westminster. He was appointed by Pope Francis to succeed Terence Brain as the 11th Bishop of Salford on 30 September 2014 and was installed on 8 December 2014.\n\nThere have been two auxiliary bishops of the Diocese of Salford who assisted the diocesan bishop of Salford in overseeing the diocese: \n\n"}
{"id": "4701602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4701602", "title": "Bithiah", "text": "Bithiah\n\nBithiah ( \"Biṯyāh, Bityá\", literally \"daughter of Yah\") or \"Daughter of God\" was an Egyptian princess, and a daughter of Pharaoh according to the Old Testament. Although the name of her father is not stated in Exodus, it is specified he was a Pharaoh. Rabbinic interpretation Midrash of her Hebrew name states that since she took Moses in as her son though she did not give birth to him, so does God adopt her as his own daughter, naming her Bat-Yah (\"daughter of Yah\"). The Bible and Midrash both assert that she was the mother of Moses, having drawn him from the Nile and bestowed upon him his name, which in Hebrew meant 'drawn out'.\n\nIn Jewish tradition, she was exiled by the Pharaoh for bringing Moses the Levite into the house of Pharaoh and claiming him as her own child. Bithiah left Egypt with Moses when he ran away after killing an Egyptian slavedriver. She married Mered the Judahite. Her children were Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah (the father of Eshtemoa).\n\nA Scottish legend tells about a daughter of Pharaoh named Scota, who refused to persecute the Israelites and was banished at the time of the Exodus. She was married to a Greek prince and they settled in Scotland. Their son founded Ireland.\n\nIn the Book of Exodus the daughter of Pharaoh who rescued Moses is not named. A daughter of Pharaoh named Bithiah is mentioned in I Chronicles . The Midrash identifies the two as the same person, and says she received her name, literally \"daughter of Yah\" (Yah being a form of YHWH, which is often rendered in English as \"\"), because of her compassion and pity in saving the infant Moses. It relates (Leviticus Rabbah 1:3) how God said He will take her in and call her YHWH's daughter (which is what “Bithiah“ means) because she took in a child not her own, and called him her son (\"Moses\" is thought to be derived from \"child\" in Egyptian).\n\nThe Midrash also portrays her as a pious and devoted woman, who would bathe in the Nile to cleanse herself of the impurity of idolatrous Egypt. She is mentioned in I Chron 4:18, as being the wife of Mered from the tribe of Judah, who is identified in the Midrash as being Caleb, one of the Twelve Spies. The Midrash (Exodus Rabbah 18:3) also records that she was not affected by the 10 Plagues, and her son was the only firstborn of Egypt to survive the .\n\nEusebius of Caesarea (\"Preparation for the Gospel\" 9.15) names her as Merris, and Eustathius of Antioch (\"Commentary on Hexameron\" MPG 18.785) as Merrhoe.\n\nIn the Hadith, Bithiah is known as Asiya, one of four of \"the best of women\". She is also known as the Pharaoh's wife, not daughter, in the Qur'an.\n\nWhen Moses was born, his mother put him in an ark and placed it in the river. When this ark reached Pharaoh's palace, the courtiers took it out and got it opened before the queen. The wife of Pharaoh was very much surprised to see a handsome and lovely child and took him in her arms. When Pharaoh (\"Firaun\") came to know about it, he stepped forward to kill the child, but Asiya stood in the way saying:\n\nPharaoh changed his mind, and Moses's biological mother was appointed a wet nurse in the palace until he grew up. When Moses preached the true faith, Asiya believed in him, provoking the Pharaoh to persecute her. Muhammad praised the piety and virtues of Asiya, who was subjected to unbearable tortures yet was steadfast. She was nailed to a board with either iron nails or wooden stakes piercing her wrists and ankles and flogged in blazing desert heat on the Pharaoh's orders. She laid down her life, but did not forsake her faith in the God of Moses.\n\nSura Al-Fajr, verse 10 refers to the Pharaoh of the nails (or stakes):\n\nIn the works of Josephus, the princess who saved Moses from the Nile is called Thermuthis.\n\nBithiah is often portrayed as being the sister or wife of Pharaoh in adaptations of the story, in order to have Moses appear as Pharaoh's son.\n\nIn the 1956 American film \"The Ten Commandments\", she is portrayed by Nina Foch as the daughter of Ramesses I and sister of the Egyptian pharaoh, Seti I, who raised Moses as her own son as her husband had died before they could have children. When Moses leads the Hebrews out of Egypt, she joins the Exodus.\n\nIn the film, Bithiah is shown as a compassionate and heroic woman, who deeply loved Moses as a mother and wanted him to inherit the throne so he could do good. When Moses is found out to be a Hebrew, the heartbroken Seti, with urging from Rameses, orders her not to see him again. During the first Passover, when the Destroyer is killing the firstborn of Egypt, she is freed from a fairly luxurious form of house arrest, and takes part in the very first Passover Seder. She grieves over the suffering of her people, but casts her lot with the people of Israel and joins the Exodus, where she willingly and gladly gives up her place on her rich litter to help weaker Israelites. When the Egyptian chariots attack, she tries to interpose herself between the charging army and the Israelites, with her future husband Mered (see I Chronicles 4:18) dissuading her from the noble yet suicidal act. When the Egyptian army drowns in the Red Sea, it is her grief that the film shows rather than the biblical account of the singing and dancing of the people led by Miriam. Mered comforts her in her sorrow. A later scene has Bithiah among the few who refuse to participate in the mass worship of the Golden Calf, instead faithfully awaiting Moses' return with the Ten Commandments. In the film, up until this point, unlike in the Bible, Bithiah was shown to be an idol-worshiper.\n\nIn the 1998 Dreamworks animated epic, \"The Prince of Egypt\", Bithiah is named Queen Tuya, historically the consort of Seti I. She was voiced by Helen Mirren, with Linda Dee Shayne providing her singing voice.\n\nThe American novelist, H. B. Moore (also listed as Heather B. Moore) has published three novels centered on the life of Moses, under the group heading \"The Moses Chronicles\": 1. \"Bondage\" (American Fork, Utah: Covenant Communications, Inc., 2015). 2. \"Deliverance\" (American Fork, Utah: Covenant Communications, Inc., 2016); and 3. \"Exodus\" (American Fork, Utah: Covenant Communications, Inc., 2016). Bithiah appears as a central character/narrator in numerous chapters in the first and third volumes of this \"Biblical drama.\"\n\nIn the well known song \"It Ain't Necessarily So\" from Gershwin's Porgy and Bess, the character Sportin' Life expresses skepticism about the veracity of several Biblical stories, including this one: \"Li'l Moses was found in a stream/Li'l Moses was found in a stream/He floated on water/Till Ol' Pharaoh's daughter/She fished him, \"she said\", from dat stream\".\n\nBithiah's name in Hebrew form (בתיה \"Batya\") is commonly used as a female first name in contemporary Israel (see Batya Gur).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4436433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4436433", "title": "Bruno Gröning", "text": "Bruno Gröning\n\nBruno Gröning (May 30, 1906 in Danzig – January 26, 1959 in Paris) was a German mystic who gave lectures on faith healings. He was active in Germany in the 1940s and 1950s after World War II.\n\nGröning claimed that his ideas were not a new teaching or religion, but rather an ancient knowledge that had been lost, saying that people had forgotten \"the most important thing\", that there is a higher power or force that is available to help people.\n\nAt the center of his teachings was the importance of love, both for God and for others, saying \"A human being is a creature of Love. What’s created in love can live only in Love. Love is God!\"\n\nGröning regarded health (rather than illness and disease) as the natural state of all living things and asserted that one can maintain health and heal from illness by absorption of a Divine life force that he called \"Heilstrom,\" which translates into English as \"Healing Wave\" or \"Healing Stream.\"\n\nTo connect with and receive this energy, Gröning taught a technique he called \"einstellen\" (German for \"tuning in\"). He said that human beings were like batteries that used energy. To maintain health, a person needed to daily renew themselves by tuning into the healing wave. The practice of \"einstellen\" consists of sitting in an upright position with arms and legs uncrossed and palms facing upwards. He stated that it was very important for the back to be straight and to not have any kind of backrest if possible. Inwardly the practice consists of having the wish to receive the \"heilstrom\", having faith that healing is possible, and then focusing on the body, observing the sensations and feelings thereof.\n\nHe told people to \"take on health\" and that in this one regard, in regard to healing that it was permissible, even necessary to be selfish in a manner, that is, to focus on oneself.\n\nGröning claimed that when a person tunes into the healing stream that healings can occur spontaneously or slowly, depending on variables such as the quantity of life force flowing through the body, accelerated during \"einstellen\". Sometimes the symptoms may worsen or increased pain is experienced, before a healing occurs. Gröning called this occurrence \"regelungen\" (German for \"regulation\") and stated that it is sometimes a necessary part of the healing process.\n\nGröning emphasized the importance of not thinking about negative things, especially dwelling on an illness one was hoping to heal, in maintaining a positive attitude and having faith, especially the faith that healing was possible. Gröning said that, “Thoughts are energies which will come true! If now you take up the firm intent in your mind to regain your health and the belief that this is possible, with God’s help, you have built up the right mental attitude for healing to begin.” In his teachings, he emphasized that negative thinking and dwelling on problems interferes with the healing process.\n\nGröning often stated that people needed to \"Trust and believe--the Divine Power helps and heals.\" He went so far as to say that the act of having faith in the divine, or in healing, is an essential part of the healing process.\n\nGröning's concept of himself was that he was an \"appointed person\", given the task and capacity to help people by God. He spoke of himself also as a \"mediator\" and a \"transformer\", in terms of his role and ability to help people connect with the healing stream. He never took credit for the healings, saying that he was only an instrument and servant of God and that it was God who accomplished healing, not himself.\n\nHe said often that he was calling humanity to the \"Great Reversal\" or \"Great Turnaround\" - to live a life connected to the divine and to live in harmony with nature. \"The sole purpose of my deeds and workings is to guide all people on this earth once again onto the right path, onto the divine path. This is the great reversal.\"\n\nThe particular religion people followed was not considered important by Gröning; rather, what was important was that people had a type of spiritual or religious orientation, saying \"To be connected with God, that is all.\" Gröning spoke of God as the father of all people, who sends help and healing through the \"healing stream\" regardless of their religion or nationality. He encouraged people to strengthen their connection with whatever faith or denomination they adhered to, and to practice their faith or religion with more diligence, saying \"It makes absolutely no difference how the person finds God; the main thing is, that he finds God!“\n\nBruno Gröning had no formal medical training. After working as a carpenter and pursuing some other occupations, he was conscripted during World War II. After being drafted, he stated that he would not kill another human being, and came close to being executed for this stance at a court martial. Later, Bruno Gröning was made a prisoner of war in Russia; he argued with his captors for better conditions in the prison. Gröning came to public attention in 1949. In Herford, the father of a young boy named Dieter Hulsmann, claimed that Bruno Gröning had healed his son of muscular dystrophy, and told many people of his belief. News of this story circulated and soon crowds gathered in front of the Hulsmann residence, seeking healing. Soon newspapers began covering the story, which drew larger crowds of up to 5,000 people.\n\nAs he traveled around Germany, Austria and Switzerland he would often draw similar size and larger crowds. In September 1949, up to 30,000 people daily came to the city of Rosenheim to see him. Once again, newspapers ran stories about him, even printing entire special editions about the gatherings there.\n\nGröning died at the age of 52. The death certificate states the cause of death as \"stomach cancer.\"\n\nMedia coverage of Bruno Gröning was mixed, with contradictory reports. Some called Gröning a \"miracle doctor\", others \"charlatan.\"\n\nGröning faced many legal challenges. In many towns he was forbidden to heal or speak to people. Reasons for this varied. One charge brought against him was that he was practicing medicine without a license. At other times officials were concerned about the large crowds that gathered. He went on trial twice. He was unable to take part in the second trial because he was undergoing surgery at the time.\n\nVarious groups continue to promulgate Gröning's teaching, including the Circle of Information, the Bruno Groening Trust, the Bruno Groening Friends, the Association for the Advancement in Germany of Spiritual and Natural - Psychological Foundations for Living, the Association for Natural Spiritual Living, the Bruno Gröning Circle of Friends and Help and Healing Sessions.\n\nGröning founded the Association for the Advancement in 1958 to replace the Gröning Association. The Circle of Friends was founded in 1979 by Grete Hausler, an Austrian school teacher who worked closely with Gröning. The Circle of Information was created by Thomas Busse, who has written a number of books about Gröning and directed the documentary film \"The Gröning Phenomena\". Help and Healing Sessions is an association of independent Groening groups and hosts online meetings.\n"}
{"id": "85124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85124", "title": "Caeculus", "text": "Caeculus\n\nIn Roman mythology, Caeculus (meaning \"little blind boy\", from \"caecus\" \"blind\") was a son of Vulcan, and the legendary founder of Praeneste (modern Palestrina).\n\nKing Caeculus appears in Book VII of Virgil's \"Aeneid\" as an ally of Turnus against Aeneas and the Trojans, where he is said to be the \"founder of Praeneste\" and described as \"the son of Vulcan, born among the rural herds and found upon the hearth\".\n\nThe myth concerning the birth of Caeculus and his divine parentage is of great interest for the study of Latin religion. In the myth he is the nephew of two divine twin brothers (\"divi fratres\") called the Depidii (or Digidii). They had a younger sister. One day while she was sitting by the hearth, a spark landed on her and she was impregnated. When the child was born, she exposed him near the temple of Jupiter, where he was found, lying next to a fire, by a group of girls (one version says that these girls were also sisters of the Depidii), who had come to fetch water from a nearby spring. The girls took the child to his uncles, the Depidii, who reared him. \nAfter spending his childhood among shepherds, he gathered a band of youngsters of his age, and founded the city of Praeneste. \nCaeculus was unharmed by a fire, caused by his casting doubt on the divinity of his ancestry. He also showed mastery over fire by starting and extinguishing another at his will. The smoke though damaged his eyes, which remained smaller than normal, hence his name, Caeculus, \"little blind one\".\n\nHis story is reminiscent of the practise of ver sacrum and similar to that of Romulus and Remus the founders of Rome.\nCaeculus was claimed as the eponymous ancestor of the Roman \"gens\" Caecilia, and also perhaps by the lesser known \"gens\" Caesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50484431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50484431", "title": "Castle of San Jorge", "text": "Castle of San Jorge\n\nThe Castle of San Jorge was a medieval fortress built on the west bank of the Guadalquivir river in the Spanish city of Seville (Spain). It was also used as headquarters and prison for the Spanish Inquisition. \nIt was demolished in the 19th century and made into a food market. A museum in the underground ruins focuses on the history of the castle, the Spanish Inquisition and of religious repression. Next to the food market in the Barrio de Triana, the Alley of the Inquisition, which was part of the fortifications, now connects Castilla Street with the Nuestra Señora de la O Walk.\n\nThe Visigoths created a fortification in the area next to the river to defend Spalis, the Visigoth name for Seville. \n\nDuring the Almohad domain in 1171, Jucef Abu Jacub, king of Isbilia, ordered the construction of the Puente de barcas (Bridge of Boats), a floating bridge laid over a row of boats, to link the east and west shores. That bridge was chained to what was then called the Castle of Gabir. \n\nIn the same year, the king funneled water from the Guadalquivir from the castle to the inner city, spending a huge sum of money.He ordered the construction of the Alcazar, the Buhaira palace and the fortress of Alcalá de Guadaíra. He was defeated by Afonso I of Portugal at the Siege of Santarém (1184), in which he died. Ferdinand III of Castile, with the help of the fleet of Ramón de Bonifaz, broke the chains and with it the barrier of the bridge. This helped Ferdinand III to take the city in 1248. Up until 1280, the castle belonged to the Military Order of Saint George of Alfama, patron of knights and soldiers.\n\nIn 1246, Seville and Granada were the only major cities in the Iberian Peninsula that had not fallen to Christian rule. During the summer of 1247, Castilian armies isolated Seville to the north and east. This paved the way for the siege, which started when Ramón de Bonifaz sailed with thirteen galleys and some smaller ships up the Guadalquivir and scattered his opposition. On May 3, the Castilian fleet broke the pontoon bridge linking Seville and Triana.\n\nDue to the subsequent famine the Muslims had no choice but to surrender. The city capitulated on November 23, 1248. They signed Ferdinand III's requirements under which they should leave the \"whole\" city with its buildings and land \"libre et quita.\" The terms also specified that the Castillian troops would be allowed to enter the alcázar no later than a month later. During that time, the city was prepared to be occupied, mosques were purified (so that they could become Christian temples) as well as the places where the Christian armies would settle; they reserved the best houses for the lords and chiefs. Once this term was over, the Moorish king Axataf handed the keys of the city to King Ferdinand. The city was then empty for three days. Ferdinand made his triumphant entry into the city on December 22, 1248.\nAfter taking possession of the city, they proceeded to distribute things in the same way as before, according to Castilian laws, customs and uses of the time. It was understood that a conquered city belonged to the conqueror, and in this case to the crown, by \"right of conquest.\" The distribution was made between members of the royal family, princes, bishops, knights, rich men, military orders, religious orders, good men and laborers; all those who had taken part in the success. Military orders received houses and properties located all within the city walls, with the exception of the Order of St. George of Alfama, whose knights were given the Castle of Triana. Triana was named \"Guarda de Sevilla\" (Guardian of Seville).\nThe Order of St. George of Alfama was not a military order in the style of the orders already established, like the Temple, the Hospitaller, Calatrava and Santiago born in the heat of the Reconquista (Reconquest), and whose primary purpose of defending Christianity was the attack of the infidels. The Order of St. George had more modest aims: to defend against the Saracens in the coastal zone, and the zone's re population. The king considered that a river bank was a coast of a river, and that to guard the banks of the Guadalquivir fitted the rule of this order; and so he gave them the castle, renamed the Castle of San Jorge, as his part of the deal.\n\nAmong the activities at the castle was the veneration of their patron (Saint George) through cults and religious celebrations, for which rose a chapel that over the years became the first parish of Triana. That is, the temple of St. George's parish was none other than the knights' chapel inside the castle. This is also the origin of the trianera devotion to St. George.\n\nHowever, the people of the thirteenth century did not feel very attracted to this Order, whose task was to defend the coast. They did not consider this a prestigious activity, especially when other Militias like Malta, Calatrava or the Temple were given the opportunity to enjoy broad military glory and immunities. Therefore, the Order of St. George of Alfama led a nondescript life for more than a century.\n\nAccording to the chronicles, although their knights were men of well-proven value in war, they led a somewhat relaxed life in peaceful times.\n\nIn 1400, the Order of St. George of Alfama disappeared, and was absorbed by the powerful Order of Montesa.\n\nThis, and that the importance of the castle as a defensive element decreased over the years, explains why during the second half of the 15th century the Castle of San Jorge experienced a period of neglect.\n\nThe abandoned castle was delivered in 1481 to the newly created Inquisition, who used it as a headquarters and prison.\n\nWhen the Inquisition began in Seville, they needed more space for their dungeons. Since the Castle of San Jorge was unused, it was a very apparent place for those duties and it was ceded to it by the Court.\n\nThe Inquisition originally intended to suppress heresy within the Catholic Church itself, ensuring its spiritual purity. But the \"Modern Inquisition\" established in Seville, contrary to what is believed, was an independent institution of the Church, to prosecute false Christians and heretics.\n\nIt was created by the Catholic Monarchs and began operating in Seville in 1481, with the converts strongly opposed to the establishment of the Court.\n\nSince Seville as was an amalgam of cultures, with remarkable Judeo-Moorish minorities and a large commercial center open to traffic of all nations, it was an ideal place for the presence and distribution of non-Catholic ideologies.\n\nAn archbishop of Seville, Pedro González de Mendoza, was the true founder of the Modern Inquisition. The Christians accused of heresy were forbidden to appeal to Rome, so that the \"religious control\" became independent controlled outside the papal curia.\n\nThe Tribunal of the Holy Office began with its headquarters at the convent of San Pablo of the Dominicans (present church of la Magdalena) who, because of the rivalry that it maintained with the Franciscan Order, and risking its prestige, had no problem in turning their convent into a temporary prison for the men and women \"most guilty\" of heresy. However, it soon had to move to the Castle of San Jorge where there was more rrom for the dungeons, where the judges and officers \"of this holy office\" lived.\n\nHowever, given the direction that the inquisitorial bureaucracy was taking, it did not have much space in the castle: due to the fact that two of the inquisitors had harsh differences and there were jealousies caused by the one-man office of one of the notaries.\n\nThe essential work of the Holy Office was to pursue and prosecute the false converts.\n\nThe real inquisition was held at the Castle of San Jorge: it was where the inmates were kept, where the Court subjected them to \"interrogation,\" and where they awaited execution and sentencing. Instead, the sentenced were held in so-called \"life imprisonment\" that was in El Salvador.\n\nThe jail was unhealthy, both wet or hot, to a greater or lesser extent depending on the cell's floor. The secret prisons were divided into high and low cells.\n\nThe Castle of San Jorge was a feared and hated place among other things, because its walls served as shelter to criminals who had committed a crime, but as they were friends or relatives of the Inquisition, enjoyed immunity.\n\nAlso the Inquisition had collaboration of the \"familiars,\" a kind of police who enjoyed the privileges of escaping the jurisdiction of other courts, and were also authorized to carry weapons.\n\nAlthough expressly prohibited such excesses, the \"servants of the Inquisition\" and the \"right of asylum\" continued to commit crimes under the pretext of immunity.\n\nThe Auto-da-fés that were held in Seville took place first on the steps of the Cathedral, and then in the Plaza de San Francisco, although many of them occurred in the Church of Santa Ana.\n\nOn the other hand, the Auto-da-fés were considered a party by the people, and a large crowd came that used to participate in an angry way around the complicated ceremony.\n\nAccording to Giorgio Vasari, the Florentine artist Pietro Torrigiano was arrested by the Inquisition, and died in the Castle of San Jorge in 1522 in a kind of hunger strike, although it is possible that this story is apocryphal.\n\nThe Inquisition left the castle in 1626, due to the continued deterioration of its walls due to heavy flooding. After that, it was loaned to the Count-Duke of Olivares, in which he dealt with its repairs and care, and the surveillance of goods carried to its doorstep.\n\nLater given to the city, City Hall demolished the castle in the 19th century. It was destroyed to widen the space to connect the Altozano with Castilla street and to create a grain warehouse.\n\nAround 1830, on the occasion of the traveling market that spontaneously formed in its surroundings, a food market was built that continues today.\n\nThe Alley of the Inquisition (Callejón de la Inquisición), located at the confluence of the Castilla, San Jorge y Callao streets, is evidence of the presence of the old inquisitorial court in Triana.\n\nIn 1823 the Mercado de Triana was built on the site of the castle, which remains in operation today. Beneath the market numerous archaeological excavations were carried out, which concluded that the remains should be in a museum. In 2009 the City Hall of Seville inaugurated the Castillo de San Jorge project, thus creating an interpretation center for the ruins and the religious repression that the Spanish Inquisition conducted.\n\nIn 1805, Ludwig van Beethoven premiered his opera \"Fidelio\" about a Sevillian prison which held prisoners of conscience in the late-18th century. While he didn't specifically name it in the text, it is very likely that the composer meant the castle of San Jorge. In recent years, Seville has attempted to monetize its operatic past with an inititave called Sevilla Ciudad de Ópera (Spanish for \"Seville City of Opera\"). This has included Castle tours about the operatic heritage of Seville, and a commemorative plaque installed at the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "22809177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22809177", "title": "Covering Islam", "text": "Covering Islam\n\nCovering Islam is a 1981 book by Palestinian author Edward Said, in which he discusses how the Western media distorts the image of Islam. Said describes the book as the third and last in a series of books (the first two were \"Orientalism\" and \"The Question of Palestine\") in which he analyzes the relations between the Islamic world, Arabs and East and West, France, Great Britain and the United States.\n\n\"Covering Islam\" deals with issues during and after the Iranian hostage crisis, and how the Western media has speculated on the realities of Islamic life. Said questions the objectivity of the media, and discusses the relations between knowledge, power and the Western media.\n\nSaid postulates that, if knowledge is power, those who control the modern Western media (visual and print) are most powerful because they are able to determine what people like or dislike, what they wear and how they wear it, and what they should know and must not know about themselves.\n\nHuman intellect enables a person to think, ponder, contemplate and question. Intellect is, according to Islam, what makes a person unique as an individual. A human, by nature, is a rational being, but the western media wants a person to be irrational—in the sense of accepting or agreeing to an idea without verifying, thinking about or questioning it. In other words, says Said, irrationalism means to let one person think and decide for another—to let one person control others.\n\nSaid refers to the media's ability to control and filter information as an 'invisible screen', releasing what it wants people to know and blacking out what it does not want them to know. In the age of information, Said argues, it is the media that interprets and filters information—and Said claims that the media has determined very selectively what Westerners should and should not know about Islam and the Muslim world. Islam is portrayed as oppressive (women in Hijab); outmoded (hanging, beheading and stoning to death); anti-intellectualist (book burning); restrictive (bans on post- and extramarital affairs, alcohol and gambling); extremist (focusing on Algeria, Lebanon and of course Egypt); backward (Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the Sudan); the cause of worldwide conflict (Palestine, Kashmir and Indonesia); and dangerous (Turkey and Iran).\n\nThe modern Western media, says Said, does not want people to know that in Islam both men and women are equal; that Islam is tough on crime and the causes of crime; that Islam is a religion of knowledge par excellence; that Islam is a religion of strong ethical principles and a firm moral code; that socially Islam stands for equality and brotherhood; that politically Islam stands for unity and humane governance; that economically Islam stands for justice and fairness; and that Islam is at once a profoundly spiritual and a very practical religion. Said claims that untruth and falsehood about Islam and the Muslim world are consistently propagated in the media, in the name of objectivity, liberalism, freedom, democracy and ‘progress’.\n\n"}
{"id": "44593067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44593067", "title": "Daily Rambam Study", "text": "Daily Rambam Study\n\nDaily Rambam Study is an annual study cycle that includes the daily study of Maimonides' magnum opus, Mishneh Torah. The study regimen was initiated by Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson in the spring of 1984 with three tracks. The first track includes studying three chapters a day, so that the entire fourteen books are completed in less than one year. Participants in the second track study one chapter daily and complete the entire Mishneh Torah in approximately three years. A third track that parallels the three chapter track includes the study of Sefer Hamitzvos.\n\nIn establishing the new study cycle, Rabbi Schneerson cited a unique quality of Mishneh Torah that it is inclusive of the entire Torah. By learning Rambam, one effectively learns the entire Torah. If all Jewish people united in the daily study cycle, Jewish unity could be accomplished. This study aims to bring about Torah unity and Jewish unity simultaneously.\n\nThe completion of each cycle is celebrated with a \"Siyum Harambam\". Such events are held worldwide with the participation of many thousands of people. These celebrations are attended by Jewish leaders from different communities.\n\nOn September 26, 2017 all three tracks completed the Rambam learning cycle. The 3 chapter daily track completed its 36th cycle while the one chapter daily track completed its 12th.\n\nListed in order of composition of text studied, from oldest to most recent.\n\nWeekly Torah portion\n\nMishnah\n\nTalmud\n\nMishneh Torah (, \"Repetition of the Torah\"), subtitled Sefer Yad ha-Hazaka (ספר יד החזקה \"Book of the Strong Hand\") – a code of Jewish religious law (\"Halakha\") authored and compiled between 1170 and 1180 by Maimonides (Rabbi Moshe ben Maimon, also known as \"RaMBaM\" or \"Rambam\"), one of history's foremost rabbis.\n\nShulchan Aruch (, literally: \"Set Table\"). Published in 1565\nSection Orach Chayim only – laws of prayer and synagogue, Sabbath, holidays\n\nThe Tanya\n\nKitzur Shulchan Aruch – a summary of the Shulchan Aruch of Joseph Karo with reference to later commentaries first published in 1864\n\nChafetz Chayim and Shemiras Halashon\n\nMishnah Berurah ( \"Clarified Teaching\") – a work of \"halakha\" first published in 1904 by Rabbi Yisrael Meir Kagan of Poland, (1838–1933), also colloquially known by the name of another of his books, \"Chofetz Chaim\" \"Desirer of Life\".\n\nOthers\n\nFor other study cycles, see Torah study#Study cycles\n\n"}
{"id": "16722044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16722044", "title": "Dark Detectives", "text": "Dark Detectives\n\nDark Detectives: Adventures of the Supernatural Sleuths is an anthology of fantasy and horror detective stories edited by Stephen Jones. It was published by F & B Mystery in 1999 in an edition of 2,100 copies of which 100 were signed by all the contributors except R. Chetwynd-Hayes. The anthology contains 10 stories and a novel, \"Seven Stars\", whose episodes are interspersed among the stories. Several of the stories first appeared in collections, or in the magazines \"The Idler\", \"Kadath\" and \"Time Out\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3700127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3700127", "title": "Exorcism", "text": "Exorcism\n\nExorcism (from Greek εξορκισμός, \"exorkismós\" \"binding by oath\") is the religious or spiritual practice of evicting demons or other spiritual entities from a person, or an area, that are believed to be possessed. Depending on the spiritual beliefs of the exorcist, this may be done by causing the entity to swear an oath, performing an elaborate ritual, or simply by commanding it to depart in the name of a higher power. The practice is ancient and part of the belief system of many cultures and religions.\n\nRequested and performed exorcism began to decline in the United States by the 18th century and occurred rarely until the latter half of the 20th century when the public saw a sharp rise due to the media attention exorcisms were getting. There was “a 50% increase in the number of exorcisms performed between the early 1960s and the mid-1970s”.\n\nIn Christianity, exorcism is the practice of casting out demons. In Christian practice the person performing the exorcism, known as an exorcist, is often a member of the Christian Church, or an individual thought to be graced with special powers or skills. The exorcist may use prayers and religious material, such as set formulas, gestures, symbols, icons, amulets, etc. The exorcist often invokes God, Jesus and/or several different angels and archangels to intervene with the exorcism. Protestant Christian exorcists most commonly believe the authority given to them by the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit (the Trinity) is the source of their ability to cast out demons.\n\nIn general, people considered to be possessed are not regarded as evil in themselves, nor wholly responsible for their actions, because possession is considered to be unwilling manipulation by a demon resulting in harm to self or others. Therefore, practitioners regard exorcism as more of a cure than a punishment. The mainstream rituals usually take this into account, making sure that there is no violence to the possessed, only that they be tied down if there is potential for violence.\n\nIn Catholic Christianity, exorcisms are performed in the name of Jesus Christ. A distinction is made between a formal exorcism, which can only be conducted by a priest during a baptism or with the permission of a bishop, and \"prayers of deliverance\" which can be said by anyone.\nThe Catholic rite for a formal exorcism, called a \"Major Exorcism\", is given in Section 11 of the Rituale Romanum. The Ritual lists guidelines for conducting an exorcism, and for determining when a formal exorcism is required. Priests are instructed to carefully determine that the nature of the affliction is not actually a psychological or physical illness before proceeding.\n\nIn Catholic practice the person performing the exorcism, known as an exorcist, is an ordained priest. The exorcist recites prayers according to the rubrics of the rite, and may make use of religious materials such as icons and sacramentals. The exorcist invokes God—specifically the Name of Jesus—as well as members of the Church Triumphant and the Archangel Michael to intervene with the exorcism. According to Catholic understanding, several weekly exorcisms over many years are sometimes required to expel a deeply entrenched demon.\n\nFrom the 16th century onward, Lutheran pastoral handbooks describe the primary symptoms of demonic possession to be knowledge of secret things, knowledge of languages one has never learned, and supernatural strength. Before conducting a major exorcism, Lutheran liturgical texts state that a physician be consulted in order to rule out any medical or psychiatric illness. The rite of exorcism centers chiefly around driving out demons \"with prayers and contempt\" and includes the Apostle's Creed and Our Father.\n\nBaptismal liturgies in Lutheran Churches include a minor exorcism.\n\nBeliefs and practices pertaining to the practice of exorcism are prominently connected with Hindus. Of the four Vedas (holy books of the Hindus), the Atharva Veda is said to contain the secrets related to exorcism, magic and alchemy.\nThe basic means of exorcism are the \"mantra\" and the \"yajna\" used in both Vedic and Tantric traditions. Vaishnava traditions also employ a recitation of names of Narasimha and reading scriptures, notably the \"Bhagavata Purana\" aloud.\n\nAccording to Gita Mahatmya of Padma Purana, reading the 3rd, 7th and 9th chapter of Bhagavad Gita and mentally offering the result to departed persons helps them to get released from their ghostly situation. \"Kirtan\", continuous playing of mantras, keeping scriptures and holy pictures of the deities (Shiva, Vishnu, Hanuman, Brahma, Shakti, etc.) (especially of Narasimha) in the house, burning incense offered during a \"Puja\", sprinkling water from holy rivers, and blowing conches used in \"puja\" are other effective practices. It is also believed that praying to Lord Hanuman gives the best result. It is also mentioned in the Hanuman Chalisa. It is believed that just uttering the name of Lord Hanuman makes the evil forces and devils tremble, in fear.\n\nThe main puranic resource on ghost and death-related information is Garuda Purana.\n\nA complete description of birth and death and also about the human soul are explained in Katō Upanishad, a part of Yajur Veda. A summary of this is also available as a separate scripture called Kāttakaṃ.\n\nIslamic exorcisms consist of the treated person lying down, while a sheikh places a hand on a patient’s head while reciting verses from the Quran, but this is not mandatory. The drinking or sprinkling of holy water (water from the Zamzam Well) may also take place along with applying of clean non-alcohol-based perfumes, called as ittar.\n\nSpecific verses from the Quran are recited, which glorify God (e.g. The Throne Verse (Arabic: آية الكرسي \"Ayatul Kursi\")), and invoke God's help. In some cases, the \"adhan\" (call for daily prayers) is also read, as this has the effect of repelling non-angelic unseen beings or the \"jinn\".\n\nThe Islamic prophet Muhammad taught his followers to read the last three \"suras\" from the Quran, Surat al-Ikhlas (The Fidelity), Surat al-Falaq (The Dawn) and Surat an-Nas (Mankind).\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in states: \"Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord.\" Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, a scholar, commented on this \"hadith\", stating: That is because these people will enter Paradise without being called to account because of the perfection of their Tawheed, therefore he described them as people who did not ask others to perform ruqyah for them. Hence he said \"and they put their trust in their Lord.\" Because of their complete trust in their Lord, their contentment with Him, their faith in Him, their being pleased with Him and their seeking their needs from Him, they do not ask people for anything, be it ruqyah or anything else, and they are not influenced by omens and superstitions that could prevent them from doing what they want to do, because superstition detracts from and weakens Tawheed\".\n\nJosephus reports exorcisms performed by administering poisonous root extracts and others by making sacrifices.\n\nIn more recent times, Rabbi Yehuda Fetaya (1859-1942) authored the book \"Minchat Yahuda\", which deals extensively with exorcism, his experience with possessed people, and other subjects of Jewish thought. The book is written in Hebrew and was translated into English.\n\nThe Jewish exorcism ritual is performed by a rabbi who has mastered practical Kabbalah. Also present is a minyan (a group of ten adult males), who gather in a circle around the possessed person. The group recites Psalm 91 three times, and then the rabbi blows a shofar (a ram's horn).\n\nThe shofar is blown in a certain way, with various notes and tones, in effect to \"shatter the body\" so that the possessing force will be shaken loose. After it has been shaken loose, the rabbi begins to communicate with it and ask it questions such as why it is possessing the body of the possessed. The minyan may pray for it and perform a ceremony for it in order to enable it to feel safe, and so that it can leave the person's body.\n\nIn Taoism, exorcisms are performed because an individual has been possessed by an evil spirit for one of two reasons. The individual has disturbed a ghost, regardless of intent, and the ghost now seeks revenge. An alive person could also be jealous and uses black magic as revenge thereby conjuring a ghost to possess someone. Members of the fashi, both Chinese ritual officers and priests ordained by a celestial master, perform Chinese rituals, in particular, exorcisms.\n\nHistorically, Taoist exorcisms include chanting, physical movements, and praying as a way to drive away the spirit. Rituals such as these occur during festivals. Rituals such as these are considered of low order during these festivals. They are more for entertainment than a necessity during festivals.\n\nThe leaders of the exorcisms create a dramatic performance to call out the demons so the village can once again have peace. The leaders strike themselves with a sharp weapon so they bleed. Blood is considered to be a protector, so after the rituals, the blood is blotted with a tissue and put on the door of houses as an act of protection against evil spirits.\n\nThe ritual of the Exorcising-Ghost day is part of Tibetan tradition. The Tibetan religious ceremony 'Gutor' ༼དགུ་གཏོར་༽, literally offering of the 29th, is held on the 29th of the 12th Tibetan month, with its focus on driving out all negativity, including evil spirits and misfortunes of the past year, and starting the new year in a peaceful and auspicious way.\n\nThe temples and monasteries throughout Tibet hold grand religious dance ceremonies, with the largest at Potala Palace in Lhasa. \nFamilies clean their houses on this day, decorate the rooms and eat a special noodle soup called 'Guthuk'. ༼དགུ་ཐུག་༽\nIn the evening, the people carry torches, calling out the words of exorcism.\n\nDemonic possession is not a psychiatric or medical diagnosis recognized by either the DSM-5 or the ICD-10. Those who profess a belief in demonic possession have sometimes ascribed to possession the symptoms associated with physical or mental illnesses, such as hysteria, mania, psychosis, Tourette's syndrome, epilepsy, schizophrenia or dissociative identity disorder.\n\nAdditionally, there is a form of monomania called demonomania or demonopathy in which the patient believes that he or she is possessed by one or more demons. The illusion that exorcism works on people experiencing symptoms of possession is attributed by some to placebo effect and the power of suggestion. Some cases suggest that supposedly possessed persons are actually narcissists or are suffering from low self-esteem and act demonically possessed in order to gain attention.\n\nWithin the scientific community, the work of psychiatrist M. Scott Peck, a believer in exorcism, generated significant debate and derision. Much was made of his association with (and admiration for) the controversial Malachi Martin, a Roman Catholic priest and a former Jesuit, despite the fact that Peck consistently called Martin a liar and a manipulator. Other criticisms leveled against Peck included claims that he had transgressed the boundaries of professional ethics by attempting to persuade his patients to accept Christianity.\n\nOne scholar has described psychosurgery as \"Neurosurgical Exorcisms\", with trepanation having been widely used to release demons from the brain. Meanwhile, another scholar has equated psychotherapy with exorcism.\n\nIn the UK, exorcisms are increasing. They happen mainly in charismatic and Pentecostal churches, and also among communities of West African origin. Frequently, the people exorcised are mentally disturbed. Mentally ill people are sometimes told to stop their medication as the church believes prayer and/or exorcism is enough. If psychiatric patients do not get better after exorcism, they may believe they have failed to overcome the demon and get worse.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9303029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9303029", "title": "Feng Shou", "text": "Feng Shou\n\nFeng Shou (風手) is a Chinese Martial Arts style associated with Taoist Arts of the Lee-style as taught by Chee Soo, President of the International Taoist Society. Feng Shou came to London in 1930 when Chan Kam Lee an importer and exporter of precious stones taught a class in Red Lion Square in Holborn. Chan Kam Lee met Chee Soo and taught him the style in 1934. It is an internal or soft style. \"Feng Shou Ch’uan Shu\" means literally 'Wind Hand Fist Art'. The name comes from the ‘Earl of the Wind’, who in Chinese mythology was called Feng Po. He is depicted as an old man with a long flowing white beard, who stands on the green grass of the heaven’s highest pinnacle, dressed in a yellow cloak and wearing a red and blue hat. In his hands he holds the open end of a cotton sack, and wherever he points the mouth of the sack, the wind blows in that direction. He can turn a full circle, and send the winds unhindered across the whole world. If he moves slowly, then the wind from his sack will hardly move and it will feel like the gentleness of a morning breeze. But if he becomes angry or is surprised then he may turn very fast, and the wind will hurtle across the universe to create the devastation of a tornado.\n\nFeng Shou is a soft or internal style so the techniques are relaxed and generally involved circular motion with no blocking. The techniques are designed to use \"Jin\" rather than \"Li\" or muscle power. \"Li\" is muscular strength, like one would to use to push a car. It is contrasted by \"Jin,\" the energy one sees when a sitting cat flashes out a paw to slap a bothersome dog. In the case of Li, there is usually a drawing back of the arm and a tensing of muscular strength as it shoves out with whatever force resides in the muscles. Jin, on the other hand, snaps out without preparation, completely relaxed and impacting with greater force because it moves faster than Li, like being hit with a fastball.In his training manual of Feng Shou Chee Soo details several areas of technique such as for example:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3229314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229314", "title": "Ghagiel", "text": "Ghagiel\n\nGhagiel (variously Chaigidel, Chaigidiel, or Oghiel), in the belief system of Kabbalah, is the name of the Qliphah corresponding to the Sephirah Chokmah in the Tree of Life. They are demons, the Hinderers, described as black evil giants with serpents entwined around them, and they are attached to lying and material appearances, in opposition to those of reality and wisdom.\n\nIn the Kabbalah, the Qliphoth represent the unbalanced force of a particular Sephirah, or attribute of God. Chokmah, or \"Wisdom\" is the sephira concerned with creative, subjective energy, the phallic force that acts upon Binah, the great mother, the receiver of this energy and giver of form. If Chokmah is not balanced by the force of Binah, it remains proud, unrestricted energy, too stubborn to be bound by the matrix of the mother, unwilling to 'bow down to man' and take material form, as described in the Islamic legend regarding Iblis, or Satan. Therefore, Chokmah becomes Ghagiel, the force that hinders the natural evolution of divine energy flowing down into the creation, through pride and egotism, and maintains itself in the world of illusion and lies.\n"}
{"id": "1265835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1265835", "title": "Hajji", "text": "Hajji\n\nHajji (sometimes spelled Hadji, Haji, Alhaji, Al hage, Al hag or El-Hajj) is a title which is originally given to a Muslim person who has successfully completed the Hajj to Mecca. It is also often used to refer to an elder, since it can take time to accumulate the wealth to fund the travel (particularly before the advent of mass air travel), and in many Muslim societies as an honorific title for a respected man. The title is placed before a person's name; for example Joshua Omo becomes \"Hajji Joshua Omo\".\n\n\"Hadži\" is also used in Christian Orthodox religion for people who go on pilgrimage to the grave of Christ in Jerusalem. It can then be added to the pilgrim's first name, e.g., Hadži-Prodan.\n\nHajji is derived from the Arabic ', which is the active participle of the verb ' (\"to make the pilgrimage\"). The alternative form \"\" is derived from the name of the Hajj with the adjectival suffix -\"ī\", and this was the form adopted by non-Arabic languages. In some areas the title has become a family name, for example in the Bosniak surname \"Hadžiosmanović\" (\"son of Hajji Osman\").\n\nIn Arab countries, ' and ' (pronunciation varies according to the form of Arabic spoken) is a commonly used manner of addressing any older person respectfully, regardless of whether or not the person in question has actually performed the pilgrimage.\n\nIn Malay-speaking countries, and are titles given to Muslim males and females respectively who have performed the pilgrimage. These are abbreviated Hj and Hjh.\n\nThe term is also used in the Balkan Christian countries that were once under Ottoman rule (Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece, Montenegro, Macedonia and Romania) for a Christian who had traveled to Jerusalem and the Holy Lands.\n\nIn Cyprus the title became so prevalent as to be permanently integrated into some Greek Christian family names, such as Hajiioannou. This was due to Cyprus being so close to the Holy Lands and Jerusalem, as Cyprus became a place where Christians and Muslims intermixed freely for many centuries.\n\nIn Iran the honorific title \"Haj\" () is sometimes used for IRGC commanders, instead of the title \"Sardar\" (\"General\").\n\nThe title has also been used in Jewish communities to honor those who made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem or other holy sites in Israel.\n\n\"Hajji\", \"Haji\", Hadji or \"Hodgie\" has become a phrase used as a racist term for Iraqis, Arabs, Afghans, or West Asian, North African, and South Asian people in general. It is comparable to the term \"gook,\" used by U.S military personnel during the Vietnam War.\n\n"}
{"id": "3617890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3617890", "title": "Hammudid dynasty", "text": "Hammudid dynasty\n\nThe Hammudid dynasty () was a Berberised Arab Muslim dynasty that briefly ruled the Caliphate of Córdoba and the taifas of Málaga and Algeciras and nominal control in Ceuta. Their Idrisid ancestors were Zaydi, which would explain why the Hammudids were described as Shi'ite whilst not displaying any practices nor tendencies of the Imami Shia.\n\nThe dynasty is named after their ancestor, Hammud, a descendant of Idris ibn Abdallah, whose ancestors had established themselves among the Berber tribes of northern Morocco. When Sulayman ibn al-Hakam carved out Andalusian land for his Berber allies, two members of the Hammudid family were given the governorship of Algeciras, Ceuta and Tangier. The Hammudids thus gained control of the traffic across the Straits of Gibraltar, suddenly becoming a powerful force. Claiming to act on behalf of the dethroned Hicham II, the Hammudi governor of Ceuta Ali ibn Hammud al-Nasir marched upon Córdoba in the year 1016, where he was crowned Caliph.\n\nIn 1056, the last Hammudid Caliph was dethroned, losing Malaga to the Zirids of Granada, who had previously been the Hammudids' most important supporters. The Hammudi family was then forced to settle in Ceuta.\n\n"}
{"id": "6092153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6092153", "title": "Hazon", "text": "Hazon\n\nFounded in 1999, Hazon is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that promotes creating sustainable communities in the Jewish world. Hazon CSA is the first Jewish Community-Supported Agriculture program in North America. Hazon’s offices are located in New York, California, and Colorado. In Hebrew, \"hazon\" means \"vision.\"\n\nHazon's Board of Directors includes Ruth Messinger.\n\nFounded in 1999, Hazon is committed to programs that are rooted in Jewish tradition but committed to the present and the Jewish future. Hazon’s first project was the Cross-USA Jewish Environmental Bike Ride. In the summer of 2000, a diverse Jewish group cycled over 3000 miles, from Seattle to Washington, D.C., to raise environmental awareness in the Jewish community, to raise money for Jewish environmental projects and to be positive role models for people they met along the way, especially young people. Participants in the Cross-USA Ride taught in 47 different Jewish communities during the ride, and ended at the White House, where they won a national award from the United States Environmental Protection Agency\n\nHazon's first New York ride took place in 2001. It began in Kingston and ended at the Jewish Theological Seminary. There were 40 riders and $32,000 was raised.\n\nHazon held its first Israel ride in 2003. There were 44 riders who ranged from 15–60 years old. The ride was over 300 miles long and took place over a five-day period. This first ride raised $136,000.\n\nHazon's first Food Conference was held in December 2006. It ran from December 14–17 at the Isabella Freedman Retreat Center in Falls Village, Connecticut.\n\nHazon’s California office opened in December 2009 in the Bay Area.\n\nThe first Hazon California ride was held in 2010. It was a 2-day bike ride and Shabbat retreat in the Redwoods of Sonoma County, It included kosher food, yoga, workshops, hikes, scenic views through redwood and eucalyptus groves, and along the Pacific coast.\n\nIn 2011, Hazon received a grant from Rose Community Foundation, 18 Pomegranates, and the Oreg Foundation with the purpose of building the Jewish food & environmental movement in Denver and Boulder. Hazon has since hired local staff in the Denver area to expand its presence and contribution in the state.\n\nThe Hazon founder, Nigel Savage, who has a master's degree in history from Georgetown University, is a founder of Limmud New York, and sits on the advisory boards of Ramah Outdoor Adventure and the Jewish Greening Fellowship.\nNigel was named a member of the Forward 50, the annual list of the 50 most influential Jewish people in the United States.\n\nAn enthusiastic cyclist, Savage created Hazon to explore the relationship between Judaism and the natural world.\n\nRichard Dale, who sits on the Board of Directors of Hazon, is a principal at Sigma Partners, a venture capital firm specializing in early-stage IT investments, based in Boston and Menlo Park. Richard joined Sigma Partners in 2000 with 16 years of prior experience in software and high technology. Before Sigma, Richard co-founded Phase Forward Incorporated, a provider of service and software infrastructure for managing pharmaceutical clinical trials, where he was Vice President of Services and then Vice President of Strategic Development. Richard also held professional service, senior product management and IS management roles at Sybase, Epoch Systems (a subsidiary of EMC) and MicroTouch Systems. He shares responsibility for Sigma’s investment in CaseNET, Instill, Retica, Silverlink and Visual Mining. He has also been an advisor to many startup companies, including Vignette, OnDisplay, FirstSense, OnExchange and QXL.com.\nRichard received a B.A. in mathematics from the University of Durham in England.\n\nRuth W. Messinger, who also sits on the Board of Directors of Hazon, is the president and executive director of American Jewish World Service, an international development organization providing support to grassroots social change projects throughout the world. Prior to assuming this role in 1998, Ms. Messinger was in public service in New York City for 20 years, including having served as Manhattan borough president. She is an active member of her synagogue and serves on the boards of several not-for-profit organizations. In honor of her tireless work to end the genocide in Darfur, Sudan, Ruth Messinger received the Jewish Council for Public Affairs’ prestigious Albert D. Chernin Award in February 2006. And, in tribute to her life’s work, she was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in 2005, as well as the Union for Reform Judaism Maurice N. Eisendrath Bearer of Light Award. For the past five years, she has been named one of the 50 most influential Jews of the year by the Forward, putting her in the top spot on the list in 2005. Ruth Messinger has participated in every Hazon New York Ride and will ride again in 2012’s ride.\n\nSince 2001, 3,091 people have participated in a Hazon bike ride. Hazon has active rides in New York, California, and Israel. The Cross-USA Ride, first held in 2001, launched again on June 10, 2012. Each ride raises money to further Hazon’s education work and the work of Hazon’s partners. So far, $6.4 million has been raised by riders on Hazon bike rides.\n\nOn June 10, 2012, joined by more than three dozen other bicyclists at segments along the way, participants in the Hazon Cross-USA ride bike 10 weeks across America with the mission of promoting awareness of sustainable food systems. They start in Seattle, WA and end in Washington D.C., where the riders will present a petition to the US Department of Agriculture in Washington in support of sustainable food systems in America.\n\nThe Hazon New York Ride is a four-day event that includes a Shabbat retreat, and a two-day ride. Some programs included are yoga, hiking, study, swimming, sessions on the work of Hazon and its partners, prayer services, and communal Shabbat meals. The proceeds from the Hazon New York Ride and Retreat support Hazon and other programs that share its mission.\n\nThe California Ride and Retreat program is one of a number of rides sponsored by Hazon each year that aims to promote a more sustainable lifestyle for the Jewish community.\n\nThe Arava Institute Hazon Israel Ride offers participants an opportunity to engage with nature as they learn about the historical and geographical significance of the regions in southern Israel \n\nHazon worked with the Upper West Side Streets Renaissance (UWSSR) Campaign to advocate for a more “livable street” network for the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The UWSSR campaign was established by residents and business leaders as a new forum to generate a plan for greener and healthier streets on the Upper West Side and to engage a new group of residents committed to change. The top five goals of the campaign were to increase pedestrian safety and amenities, improve management of the curb, integrate bicycling facilities, improve access to transit, and improve management of maintenance and operations. \n\nHazon's food programs are meant to help Jews think more broadly and deeply about personal food choices.\n\nHazon’s food-related work consists of its annual food conference, community-supported agriculture (CSA) programs, which support members through the process of planning, marketing, organizing and running their own CSA project, and an Israel food tour, and more. Each program is meant to engage the Jewish community in thinking, learning and acting around food issues, while ultimately working towards creating healthier, richer, and more sustainable Jewish communities.\n\nThe Hazon Food Conference is an annual meeting of farmers, culinary experts, global citizens, business, community and Jewish leaders to focus on contemporary food issues and exchange ideas on improving health and sustainability in communities throughout the world. The event is produced by Hazon.\nOver 2000 people have attended a Hazon Food Conference.\nThe 2012 Food Conference will be held at the Isabella Freedman Jewish Retreat Center.\n\nFirst held in 2006 at Isabella Freedman Jewish Retreat Center with 158 people in attendance, the Hazon Food Conference now takes place in late December in Northern California.\n\nFeatured presenters at the 2006 conference included Chinese Herbalist and food consultant, Ilana Fleischer; David Kraemer, professor of Talmud and Rabbinics at Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTS); Linda Lantos, graduate of the Natural Gourmet Institute for Health and Culinary Arts; documentary film maker Faye Lederman (Women of the Wall and A Good Uplift); Rabbi Natan Margalit, environmentalist and teacher at the Rabbinical School of Hebrew College; Jay Weinstein, professional chef and author of The Ethical Gourmet; and Gary Rendsburg, professor of Jewish Studies at Rutgers University.\n\nIn 2008 there were 560 attendees. The event consisted of speeches, panel discussions, hands-on workshops, cooking demonstrations, educational and leisure activities. The 2008 conference presenters and attendees included Dan Barber of Blue Hill Farm/Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture, Andrew Kimbrell from the Center for Food Safety, Rabbi Morris Allen of Magen Tzedek, and Rachel Biale of Progressive Jewish Alliance.\n\nPrograms at the Hazon Food Conference have included \"Grow Your Own & Do It Yourself Food\", \"Jewish Tradition & Food: History & Culture\", \"Food Policy and Creating a New Food System\", \"Kosher Meat, Health and Nutrition\", and \"Israel: Food & Agriculture\".\n\nDemographic information from 2008 Hazon Food Conference:\n\nHazon’s CSA program supports local, sustainable agriculture in the American Jewish community and beyond. Founded in 2004, Hazon's CSA program now includes 60 sites in the US, Canada and Israel, and over 2,300 households. The Hazon CSA program has put nearly $5 million behind sustainable agriculture, and supported Jewish institutions such as synagogues and Jewish community centers create innovative educational programming around the intersections of Jewish tradition and contemporary food and environmental issues.\n\nThe Hazon Rocky Mountain Jewish Food Summit at the University Memorial Center at CU hosts farmers, rabbis, activists, entrepreneurs and others for a day of learning, celebration, eating, community-building, and hands-on doing.\n\nHazon piloted a new program, called Setting the Table, geared towards expectant parents and young families and help them with challenges through a Jewish lens. Setting the Table is supported by UJA-Federation of New York. Participants learn to cook fresh, seasonal meals, while connecting with other Jewish families in the community.\n\nHazon has developed a diverse library of educational resources that can be used in the classroom, at home, or as experiential programs.\nOur collection of curricula, source books, and other resources are an accessible doorway to explore the connections between Jewish tradition and contemporary food issues. Anyone can benefit from these resources. They can be used by individuals, formal and informal educators, Rabbis, and lay leaders in synagogues, JCCs, day schools, camps, or just around the dinner table with family and friends.\n\nOne resource is \"Food for Thought: Hazon’s Sourcebook on Jews, Food & Contemporary Life\". It creates the opportunity to extend Hazon’s innovative work on contemporary food issues and Jewish traditions around food to a broader audience. \"Food for Thought\" is a 130-page source book that draws on a range of texts from within and beyond Jewish traditions to explore a range of topics relating to Jews and food.\n\nIn the spring of 2012, Hazon and six other national Jewish groups delivered a petition with nearly 18,000 signatures to House Leadership and the Obama Administration demanding a focus on food justice in the next Farm Bill. The signatures represent a Jewish communal voice advocating for a better food system and have been collected since October 2011 by the Jewish Farm Bill Working Group, which consists of American Jewish World Service (AJWS), the Coalition on the Environment and Jewish Life (COEJL), Hazon, the Jewish Council for Public Affairs (JCPA), the Green Zionist Alliance, MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger, the National Council of Jewish Women (NCJW) and the Union for Reform Judaism (URJ).\n\nThe Hazon Cross-USA Ride 2012 ends in Washington, D.C., this August, where the participants will present a similar petition to the U.S. Department of Agriculture that also fights for food justice in the next farm bill.\n\nHazon has become the central organization for the intersection of Judaism and food, and drew 650 people to its food conference last year. It was also asked recently to present the Jewish take on food at a conference on religions and food at the White House organized by First Lady Michelle Obama.\n\nIn 2011, fifty-five leaders from the Jewish Food Movement, including representatives from Hazon and representatives of United States Department of Agriculture gathered in Washington last Wednesday at USDA Headquarters on the National Mall for the USDA’s first-ever Food & Justice Passover Seder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16560893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16560893", "title": "Hindu Temple, Dubai", "text": "Hindu Temple, Dubai\n\nThe Hindu Temple (referred to locally as Shiva and Krishna \"Mandir\") is a place of worship for Hindus in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). The temple caters to the large Hindu community in the United Arab Emirates and is currently the only Hindu temple in the UAE.\n\nThe temple is only a prayer hall with two altars or shrines (\"Sannidhis\") on two sides, one for Shiva and one for Krishna. A third altar has been set up for Shirdi Sai Baba also. There are no images or idols in the temple because Islamic law forbids the existence of \"graven images.\" Only large paintings / posters in frames have been permitted and these have been placed in the altars to serve as the focus of prayer and devotions.\n\nThe temple is run in conjunction with the Indian consulate in Dubai. Daily worship is performed here for the framed paintings / posters. The temple also performs wedding ceremonies between Hindus. However, Hindu marriages cannot be registered in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn 1958, Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed al Maktoum permitted a Hindu temple (actually only a prayer hall) to be built on the first floor on top of a warren of old-fashioned shops in Bur Dubai. This shopping center is known as the \"Bur Dubai Old Souk\" and is located west of the Dubai Creek in the area known as Bur Dubai. \n\nThis temple, which was permitted to be built in 1958, well before oil wealth came to Dubai, remains to this day the only Hindu temple in the UAE, despite the humongous Building Boom which Dubai has witnessed in the intervening years, and despite the fact that millions of labourers from India have contributed their sweat and toil towards building the glittering skyscrapers of Dubai. The temple ministers to millions of those toiling Hindus working in the UAE, but the structure is extremely small and cramped. It comprises nothing but a single medium-sized prayer room located on the first floor of a shopping center (not even a modern mall) in the old city area of Dubai. There used to be a large department store here, built on the first floor above a set of old-fashioned shops, but the store was shut down, and the area was given for building a temple. Even today, we find the remains of the department store in the shape of several spiral staircases dotting the prayer hall in awkward places and taking us to lofts (department-store mezzanines) which are used for storage, just like in department stores.\n\nThe high handed and intolerant stance taken against the building of a new temple, despite pleas over the past five decades by the Dubai civic and royal authorities, has been criticised severely by Indians. In 2017, a visitor to the temple pointed out, \"It is often said that there are \"two temples\" in this \"temple complex,\" but this is a grossly misleading statement, because the \"two temples\" are nothing but two altars (\"sannidhis\") standing on two sides of the same prayer hall. There is also an altar with a framed poster of Shirdi Sai Baba on one side. Formerly, the same cramped room used to also house a Sikh \"Gurudwara,\" which was located on top of the Shiva Sannidhi, at a mezzanine level, and which was accessed by a spiral staircase.\"\n\nThe Gurudwara has now moved to new premises near Jebel Ali because the ruler of Dubai accepted the plea that the Sikh religion revered a book and not idols, and therefore can be permitted to have a decent place of worship in Dubai. This passes for great liberality by Arab standards.\n\nThe approach to the temple is through one of the alleys in the shopping center. Underneath the temple hall, there is a warren of small old-fashioned shops. This is the shopping mall, and there is nothing on the outside of the temple or the mall to indicate that there is a temple anywhere nearby. There is no \"gopuram,\" no \"shikhara,\" not even an identifiable gateway. The approach to the temple is through an alley within the warren of shops. The alley is only six feet wide; it is so narrow that if a man stretches out his two hands, he can touch the old walls or shops on either side of the alley. The alley has shops on both sides, and one or two of these shops sell the material required for worship. There is of course no question of driving any vehicle through the alley; approach is only on foot. While walking between the small shops, we find a fleet of stairs leading to a door at the level of the upper floor. This is the outer door of the temple. Once inside, we find that we need to walk around two outer walls to reach the prayer hall; this has been done to ensure that no sounds of chanting or prayer is audible outside. We also find that there is not a single bell or conch shell anywhere, and there are a great many signs warning us to \"keep silent\" and \"make no noise.\"\n\nIn late 2016, during the visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the UAE, the situation was compared in social media to the ringing out of Azaan from loudspeakers of countless mosques five time a day, across every city, town and village in India. Popular singer Sonu Nigam pointed this out on Twitter and gave rise a controversy saying that the Azaan should not be blared from loudspeakers at 5 am in the morning when people are asleep. However, Indian netizens pointed out that not even the sound of human voices should be heard emanating from the only temple permitted to exist in Dubai.\n\nPlans are afoot to build another temple in the UAE, this time in Abu Dhabi. These plans have been there for many years now, and very little progress has been made. As far back as in July 2013, a Muslim businessman donated five acres of land adjoining a mosque for setting up a Swaminarayan temple just outside the city of Abu Dhabi, off the highway going towards Dubai. In August 2015, UAE rulers announced permission for building a Hindu temple based on those plans. The announcement was made during the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the UAE.\n\nAccording to reports, the temple will be permitted to contain only paintings of Hindu gods but no idols because idols (\"graven images\") are forbidden in Islam. A non-Muslim place of worship, if built within a Muslim state, needs to be in compliance with Muslim beliefs and not their own beliefs.\n\n"}
{"id": "29686455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29686455", "title": "Irreligion in Singapore", "text": "Irreligion in Singapore\n\nAs of 2010, 17% of Singaporeans have no religious affiliation. Non-religious Singaporeans are found in various ethnic groups and all walks of life in Singapore. Singapore's non-religious tend to be atheists, agnostics, humanists, theists, deists and skeptics. Some locals affiliate with no religion, but still choose to practice traditional rituals like ancestor worship. The number of non-religious people in Singapore has risen slightly. Census reports show that those who said they have no religion rose from 13% in 1980 to 17% in 2010. In recent years, social gatherings of non-religious people have become more popular in Singapore.\n\nSince 2005, informal atheist groups had organised social gatherings to discuss religion and secularism, and popular books on the topic from authors such as Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens. One of the earliest groups was called the \"Atheist Haven\", and was formed by three Singaporeans in 2004.\n\nIn 2008, the Singapore Humanism Meetup was formed as a social network of secular humanists, atheists and agnostics. In October 2010, the Humanist Society (Singapore) became the first humanist group to be gazetted as a society. Many pioneer members of the society met at gatherings organised by the Singapore Humanism Meetup.\n\nNon-religious groups in Singapore are also linked to other non-religious networks in Southeast Asia. The Singapore Humanism Meetup, Singaporean Atheists and Humanist Society (Singapore) are listed on the Southeast Asian Atheists website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4532256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4532256", "title": "Jamasp Namag", "text": "Jamasp Namag\n\nThe Jamasp Nameh (var: \"Jāmāsp Nāmag\", \"Jāmāsp Nāmeh\", \"Story of Jamasp\") is a Middle Persian book of revelations. In an extended sense, it is also a primary source on Zoroastrian doctrine and legend. The work is also known as the \"Ayādgār ī Jāmāspīg\" or \"Ayātkār-ī Jāmāspīk\", meaning \"[In] Memoriam of Jamasp\".\n\nThe text takes the form of a series of questions and answers between Vishtasp and Jamasp, both of whom were amongst Zoroaster's immediate and closest disciples. Vishtasp was the princely protector and patron of Zoroaster while Jamasp was a nobleman at Vishtasp's court. Both are figures mentioned in the Gathas, the oldest hymns of Zoroastrianism and believed to have been composed by Zoroaster himself.\nHere (chap. 3.6-7) there occurs a striking theological statement, that Ohrmazd’s creation of the six Amašaspands was like lamps being lit one from another, none being diminished thereby.\n\nThe question-answer series is a common literary technique in . In the past, and among Zoroastrians themselves, this technique was frequently misunderstood to be an indication of a first-hand account. The text has survived in three forms: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3327898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3327898", "title": "Joaquín Sáenz y Arriaga", "text": "Joaquín Sáenz y Arriaga\n\nJoaquín Sáenz y Arriaga (Joaquín Sáenz Arriaga; October 12, 1899 – April 28, 1976) was a Mexican Catholic priest and theologian. Jesuit from 1916 to 1952 he was later a harsh critic of the Second Vatican Council decisions and of the post-conciliar Pope Paul VI. In 1972, he was declared excommunicated by the Roman Catholic bishops' conference of Mexico. He is considered as the promoter of the sedevacantist ideas.\n\nAs a young man Sáenz Arriaga was brought up in the spirit of the Cristero pressure group, Miguel Pro and other Catholics who fought against the government of Mexico in the 1920s.\n\nSáenz y Arriaga placed great emphasis on the Catholic doctrine of the \"Kingship of Christ\", which militates against secularism and the separation of church and state. When the Vatican II reforms began to be implemented in Mexico and North America, it was Fr. Sáenz y Arriaga who led the fight against them. \n\nHis uncompromising traditionalism led to a rejection of the new Conciliar \"Church, \"and he became the first to propound the doctrine of sedevacantism, which maintains that, since the death of Pope Pius XII, there has been a sede vacante in Rome because the following so-called popes espoused the heretical teachings of the sham Second Vatican Council.\n\nFr. Sáenz y Arriaga later incorporated these ideas in his books \"La nueva iglesia montiniana\" (The new Montinian Church) (1971), and \"Sede Vacante: Paulo VI no es Papa legítimo\" (Sede Vacante: Paul VI is no longer a legitimate Pope) (1973). In these books he stated that Paul VI had forfeited his papal authority through public, pertinacious and manifest heresy, a position which he had reportedly held for some time. He was a catalyzing influence on lay and clerical Catholic traditionalists who opposed Vatican II in Mexico and North America, persuading them to defend and maintain the \"True Faith\", setting up independent chapels and churches and soliciting and procuring consecrations to create alternative lineages of bishops.\n\nIn reaction to his activities, the Mexican Cardinal Miranda officially declared that Fr. Sáenz y Arriaga had incurred excommunication. In response, Fr. Moisés Carmona, his associate and disciple wrote: \n\nIn the 1970s Fr. Sáenz y Arriaga founded, together with Frs. Adolfo Zamora and Moisés Carmona, the \"Sociedad Sacerdotal Trento,\" during which time he also advised American Catholic traditionalist recusants to form their own organizations, which resulted in the conservative Fr. Francis E. Fenton's founding of the Orthodox Roman Catholic Movement.\n\nAccording to his biographer, Antonio Rius-Facius, Fr. Sáenz died of prostate cancer on April 28, 1976.\n\nIn his last testament, written three days before his death, Sáenz y Arriaga wrote: \"\"My life and all that is most precious to me I have sacrificed for Christ, for the Church, and for the Papacy\" and he added, \"May the last cry of my soul be that of our Mexican martyrs — Long live Christ the King! Long live the Virgin of Guadalupe.\"\"\n\nAfter his death, Sáenz y Arriaga's work was continued by Frs. Adolfo Zamora and Moisés Carmona in Mexico; by Fr. Francis E. Fenton and his associates in the Orthodox Roman Catholic Movement; and by Fr. Burton Fraser, S.J., in the United States. In today's Mexico (2007), sedevacantists of the \"Unión Católica Trento\" continue to maintain several churches, chapels and one monastery.\n\n"}
{"id": "26783076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26783076", "title": "Judaism and warfare", "text": "Judaism and warfare\n\nNormative Judaism is not pacifist, though violence is only permissible in the service of self-defense. While the biblical narrative about the conquest of Canaan and the commands related to it have had a deep influence on Western culture, mainstream Jewish traditions throughout history have treated these texts as purely historical or highly conditioned, and in either case not relevant to contemporary life. However, some minor strains of radical Zionism promote aggressive war and justify them with biblical texts.\n\nContemporary warfare conducted by the State of Israel is governed by Israeli law and regulation, which includes a Purity of arms code that is based in part on Jewish tradition. Tension between the conduct of the Israeli government and Jewish traditions and halakha on the conduct of war have caused controversy within Israel and have provided a basis for criticisms of Israel.\n\nJudaism's doctrines and texts have sometimes been associated with violence. Laws requiring the eradication of evil, sometimes using violent means, exist in the Jewish tradition. Judaism also contains peaceful doctrines. Attitudes and laws towards both peace and violence exist within the Jewish tradition. Throughout history, Judaism's religious texts or precepts have been used to promote as well as oppose violence.\n\nNormative Judaism is not pacifist and violence is permissible in the service of self-defense. J. Patout Burns asserts that Jewish tradition clearly posits the principle of minimization of violence. This principle can be stated as \"(wherever) Jewish law allows violence to keep an evil from occurring, it mandates that the minimal amount of violence be used to accomplish one's goal.\"\n\nThe ancient orders like those of wars for Israel to eradicate idol worshiping do not apply today. Jews are not taught to glorify violence. The rabbis of the Talmud saw war as an avoidable evil. They taught, 'The sword comes to the world because of delay of justice and through perversion of justice.'Jews have always hated war and Shalom expresses the hope for peace. In Judaism war is evil- at times a necessary one- yet, Judaism teaches that one has to go to great length to avoid it.\n\nThe Talmud insists that before going to non-defensive war, the king would need to seek authorization from the Sanhedrin, as well as divine approval through the High Priest. As these institutions have not existed for 2,000 years, this virtually rules out the possibility of non-defensive war.\n\nThe permissibility of war is limited and the requirement is that one always seek a just peace before waging war. Modern Jewish scholars hold that biblical texts authorizing offensive war no longer apply, and that Jewish theology instructs Jews to leave vengeance to God.\n\nJewish law prohibits the use of outright vandalism in warfare. It forbids destruction of fruit trees as a tactic of war. It is also forbidden to break vessels, tear clothing, wreck that which is built up, stop fountains, or waste food in a destructive manner. Killing an animal needlessly or offering poisoned water to livestock are also forbidden. According to Rabbi Judah Loew of Prague, Jewish law forbids the killing of innocent people, even in the course of a legitimate military engagement.\n\nThose few cases in the Bible in which this norm was violated are special cases. One example was when King Hezekiah stopped all the fountains in Jerusalem in the war against Sennacherib, which Jewish scholars regard as a violation of the biblical commandment.\n\nAccording to Maimonides', on besieging a city in order to seize it, it must not be surrounded on all four sides but only on three sides, thus leaving a path of escape for whomever wishes to flee to save his life. Nachmanides, writing a century later, strengthened the rule and added a reason: \"We are to learn to deal kindly with our enemy.\" \n\nThe Tanakh (Jewish Bible) contains commandments that require the Israelites to exterminate seven Canaanite nations, and describes several wars of extermination that annihilated entire cities or groups of peoples. The targets of the \"extermination commandments\" were the seven Canaanite nations explicitly identified by God in and . These seven tribes are Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. Most of these descended from the biblical figure Canaan, as described in . In addition, two others tribes were subject to wars of extermination: Amalekites () and Midianites (). The extermination of the Canaanite nations is described primarily in the Book of Joshua (especially ) which includes the Battle of Jericho described in .\n\nWars of extermination are referred to in several of Judaism's biblical commandments, known as the 613 Mitzvot:\n\n\nThe extent of extermination is described in the commandment which orders the Israelites to \"not leave alive anything that breathes… completely destroy them ….\" and on 1 Samuel 15 \"Now, go and crush Amalek; put him under the curse of destruction with all that he possesses. Do not spare him, but kill man and woman, babe and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.\" Rabbinical commentator Rashi elaborates on this commandment: \"From man unto woman, from infant unto suckling, from ox unto sheep, so that the name of Amalek not be mentioned even with reference to an animal by [someone] saying: 'This animal belonged to the Amalekites'.\"\n\nIn Talmudic commentary, the Canaanite nations were given the opportunity to leave, and their refusal to leave \"lay the onus of blame for the conquest and Joshua's extirpation of the Canaanites at the feet of the victims.\" Another explanation of the exterminations is that God gave the land to the Canaanites only temporarily, until the Israelites would arrive, and the Canaanites extermination was punishment for their refusal to obey God's desire that they leave. Another Talmudic explanation - for the wars in the Book of Joshua - was that God initiated the wars as a diversionary tactic so Israelites would not kill Joshua after discovering that Joshua had forgotten certain laws.\n\nA formal declaration that the “seven nations” are no longer identifiable was made by Joshua ben Hananiah, around the year 100 CE, making laws of exterminating war a dead letter.\n\nMaimonides explained that the commandment of destroying the nation of Amalek requires the Jewish people to peacefully request of them to accept upon themselves the Noachide laws.\n\nSome commentators, such as Rabbi Hayim Palaggi (1788–1869) argued that Jews had lost the tradition of distinguishing Amalekites from other people, and therefore the commandment of killing them could never practically be applied.\n\nScholar Moshe Greenberg asserts that the laws of extermination applied only to the extinct tribes, and only to their contemporary generations of Israelites. Scholar Carl Ehrlich states the biblical rules of extermination provide guidance to modern Israelis not for genocidal purposes, but rather simply as models for reclaiming the land of Israel.\n\nContemporary Jewish biblical scholar Sidney Hoenig discussed the \"brutality\" in the book of Joshua, and emphasized that it is a story, and that the purpose of the story was to increase the glory of God.\n\nScholar Carl Ehrlich states that Jewish commentators have tended to be silent regarding the morality of the violence in the Book of Joshua. Prominent atheist Richard Dawkins asserts that the commandments to exterminate are immoral.\n\nSeveral Jewish scholars have characterized the exterminations as stories of genocide. Scholar Shaul Magid characterizes the commandment to exterminate the Midianites as a \"genocidal edict\", and asserts that rabbinical tradition continues to defend the edict into the twentieth century. Scholar Ra'anan S. Boustan asserts that - in the modern era - the violence directed towards the Canaanites would be characterized as genocide. Scholar Carl Ehrlich characterizes the Battle of Jericho and the conquest of the Canaanite nations as genocide. Scholar Zev Garber characterizes the commandment to wage war on the Amalekites as genocide.\n\nAccording to Ian Lustick, leaders of the now defunct Jewish fundamentalist movement Gush Emunim, such as Hanan Porat, considered the Palestinians to be like Canaanites or Amalekites, and suggested that the biblical texts infer a duty to make merciless war against Arabs who reject Jewish sovereignty.\n\nNiels Peter Lemche asserts that European colonialism in the 19th century was ideologically based on the Old Testament narratives of conquest and extermination and that some radical Zionist groups have brought the same idea to bear in Israel.\n\nNur Masalha, Elliot Horowitz, Josef Stern and others suggest that Amalekites have come to represent an \"eternally irreconcilable enemy\" that wants to murder Jews, and that some Jews believe that pre-emptive violence is acceptable against such enemies; for example modern Palestinians have been identified as \"Amalekites\" by rabbi Israel Hess.\n\nJewish tradition permits waging war and killing in certain cases. However, the permissibility to wage war is limited and the requirement is that one always seek a just peace before waging war.\n\nIn 1992, the Israel Defense Forces drafted a Code of Conduct that combines international law, Israeli law, Jewish heritage and the IDF's own traditional ethical code—the IDF Spirit (, \"Ru'ah Tzahal\").\n\nAccording to Rabbi Judah Loew (Maharal) of Prague, Jewish law forbids the killing of innocent people, even in the course of a legitimate military engagement. Nonetheless, some religious leaders have interpreted Jewish religious laws to support killing of innocent civilians during wartime in some circumstances, and that this interpretation was asserted several times: in 1974 following the Yom Kippur war,\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War leaders of the Rabbinical Council of America issued a statement prodding the Israeli military to \"review its policy of taking pains to spare the lives of innocent civilians\", because Hezbollah “puts Israeli men and women at extraordinary risk of life and limb through unconscionably using their own civilians, hospitals, ambulances, mosques… as human shields, cannon fodder, and weapons of asymmetric warfare,” the rabbinical council said in a statement, “we believe that Judaism would neither require nor permit a Jewish soldier to sacrifice himself in order to save deliberately endangered enemy civilians.”\n\nIn another case, a booklet published by an IDF military chaplain stated \"... insofar as the killing of civilians is performed against the background of war, one should not, according to religious law, trust a Gentile 'The best of the Gentiles you should kill'...\". The booklet was withdrawn by the military after criticism, but the military never repudiated the guidance.\n\nActivist Noam Chomsky claims that leaders of Judaism in Israel play a role in sanctioning military operations: \"[Israel's Supreme Rabbinical Council] gave their endorsement to the 1982 invasion of Lebanon, declaring that it conformed to the Halachi (religious) law and that participation in the war 'in all its aspects' is a religious duty. The military Rabbinate meanwhile distributed a document to soldiers containing a map of Lebanon with the names of cities replaced by alleged Hebrew names taken from the Bible... A military Rabbi in Lebanon explained the biblical sources that justify 'our being here and our opening the war; we do our Jewish religious duty by being here.'\"\n\nIn 2007, Mordechai Eliyahu, the former Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel wrote that \"there was absolutely no moral prohibition against the indiscriminate killing of civilians during a potential massive military offensive on Gaza aimed at stopping the rocket launchings\". His son, Shmuel Eliyahu chief rabbi of Safed, called for the \"carpet bombing\" of the general area from which the Kassams were launched, to stop rocket attacks on Israel, saying \"This is a message to all leaders of the Jewish people not to be compassionate with those who shoot [rockets] at civilians in their houses.\" he continued, \"If they don't stop after we kill 100, then we must kill 1,000. And if they don't stop after 1,000, then we must kill 10,000. If they still don't stop we must kill 100,000. Even a million. Whatever it takes to make them stop.\"\n\nAn influential Chabad Lubavitch Hassid rabbi Manis Friedman in 2009 was quoted as saying: \"I don’t believe in western morality, i.e. don’t kill civilians or children, don’t destroy holy sites, don’t fight during holiday seasons, don’t bomb cemeteries, don’t shoot until they shoot first because it is immoral. The only way to fight a moral war is the Jewish way: Destroy their holy sites. Kill men, women and children\". Later, Friedman explained: \"the sub-question I chose to address instead is: how should we act in time of war, when our neighbors attack us, using their women, children and religious holy places as shields.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55693021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55693021", "title": "Kalawan", "text": "Kalawan\n\nKalawan (originally meaning \"The caves\") is the name of an archaeological site in the area of Taxila in Pakistan, where it is one of the largest Buddhist establishment. It is located about 2km from the Dharmarajika stupa.\n\nKalawan has a vihara monastery, which is the largest in northern India. An inscription, recording the enshrinement of relics as a gift to the Sarvastivadin School, was found in a chaitya hall mentioning the date of \"the 134th year of Azes,\" which corresponds to 77 CE.\n\nSmall stupas were found inside the monasteries. The Kalawan monastery, together with the Dharmarajika display an original kind of architectural arrangement in which an image shrine is built opposite the entrance. It is thought that this architectural pattern was initiated in the northwest and then became the prototype for the later development of monasteries with shrines in Devnimori, Ajanta, Aurangabad, Ellora, Nalanda, Ratnagiri and others. \n"}
{"id": "13065554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13065554", "title": "Karacaahmet Cemetery", "text": "Karacaahmet Cemetery\n\nThe Karacaahmet Cemetery () is a 700-year-old historic cemetery, located in Üsküdar, the Asian side of Istanbul. Karacaahmet cemetery is the oldest in Istanbul and at , the largest burial ground in Turkey.\n\nThe cemetery was named after a warrior companion of Orhan I, the second Ottoman sultan and is believed to have been founded in the mid-14th century. It is estimated that over a million people are interred in the non-profit cemetery.\n\nKaracaahmet Cemetery comprises 12 parcels, each dedicated to different religious groups. Many historical headstones can still be seen with inscriptions written in the Ottoman Turkish alphabet, a version of the Arabic alphabet. The burial ground is covered by high cypress trees.\n\nThe shrine of Karaca Ahmet Sultan, a 13th-century physician and saint of Alevis, a sect of Islam, is situated within the cemetery. There are also many other historical tombs and masjids, which is the Arabic word for mosques, built during the Ottoman period.\n\nList in sorted order of the year of death.\n\nBy June 2007, a dent of 1.5 m diameter and 4 m depth occurred close to the cemetery wall, which was caused by the excavation works in the tunnel for Marmaray project. It was reported that some graves were damaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "14252261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14252261", "title": "Kilmoulis", "text": "Kilmoulis\n\nA kilmoulis is, in the folklore of the Anglo-Scottish border, an ugly version of the brownie who is said to haunt mills. He has an enormous nose and no mouth. This lack of an orifice forces him to inhale his food through his nose. The Kilmoulis works hard for the miller, but also delights in tricks and pranks. While his pranks may be a hindrance, he is generally enough help to offset the food he eats and the disturbances he causes. In popular culture, it was used in the Dungeons & Dragons game as a fey creature.\n\n"}
{"id": "43229605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43229605", "title": "List of Christian Nobel laureates", "text": "List of Christian Nobel laureates\n\n65% of Nobel prize winners have been Christians. Here is a non exhaustive list of some of the prize winners who publicly identified themselves as Christians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33564127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33564127", "title": "List of churches in the Latter Day Saint Reorganization movement", "text": "List of churches in the Latter Day Saint Reorganization movement\n\nReorganized Latter Day Saints churches are as Latter Day Saint denominations that reject the allegedly apostolic succession of Brigham Young.\n\nThese include:\nNon-Joseph Smith III-lineaged churches that also reject Brigham Young's succession include:\n\n\nAfter the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, Joseph Smith, Jr., was killed, the membership of Smith's church were disputed among themselves over the question of succession. Several individuals emerged with claims to leadership and the church's presidency. This led to the formation of several small factions. The majority of the church's members in Nauvoo, Illinois followed Brigham Young, who led them to the Great Basin area (in what is now Utah) as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church. Also, the term \"Mormon\" gradually primarily came to refer to members of the LDS Church.) The remaining individuals—who still considered themselves part of Smith's original church—remained; many who were in scattered congregations throughout the American Midwest joined other factions led by such leaders as Sidney Rigdon, James J. Strang, Lyman Wight, Alpheus Cutler, William Smith, and David Whitmer. Others began forming themselves into the a \"reorganized\" Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.\n\nSome Latter Day Saints believed that Smith had designated his eldest son, Joseph Smith III, as his successor; some of these individuals waited for young Joseph to take up his father's mantle. However, Smith III was only 11 years old at the time of his father's death; his mother, Emma Hale Smith, and their family remained in Nauvoo rather than moving to join any of the departing groups. In the 1850s, groups of Midwestern Latter Day Saints who were unaffiliated with other Latter Day Saint factions began to come together. Leaders, including Jason W. Briggs and Zenas H. Gurley, Sr., began to call for the creation of a \"New Organization\" of the Latter Day Saint movement. They invited Smith III to lead their New Organization; he accepted only after he believed he received a personal spiritual confirmation that this was the appropriate course of action. At a conference on April 6, 1860, at Amboy, Illinois, Smith III formally accepted the leadership of what was then known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. William Marks, former stake president of Nauvoo, served as Smith III's counselor in the reorganized First Presidency. The word \"Reorganized\" was added to the church's official name in 1872, mostly as a means of distinguishing it from the larger LDS Church, which at that time was involved in controversy with the U.S. government over its doctrine of plural marriage. The Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints was often abbreviated \"RLDS Church\". Over time, many Mormons, mostly in the Midwest, who had not accompanied Brigham Young and his Latter-Day Saint followers to what is now Utah, began to join the new and growing Church. They included many former followers of James Strang, whose assassination in Wisconsin in 1856 left them disorganized and leaderless.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8293535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8293535", "title": "List of religious groups in Korea", "text": "List of religious groups in Korea\n\nThis is a partial list of religious groups in Korea.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28968945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28968945", "title": "List of the oldest churches in the United States", "text": "List of the oldest churches in the United States\n\nThe designation of the oldest church in the United States requires careful use of definitions, and must be divided into two parts, the oldest in the sense of oldest surviving building, and the oldest in the sense of oldest Christian church congregation. There is a distinction between old church buildings that have been in continuous use as churches, and those that have been converted to other purposes; and between buildings that have been in continuous use as churches and those that were shuttered for many decades.\n\nIn terms of congregations, they are distinguished between early established congregations that have been in continuous existence (sometimes through great theological changes), and early congregations that ceased to exist. Some of these churches are located in areas that were part of the thirteen original colonies that made up the United States in 1776. Others were built in states and territories that were later annexed, such as Louisiana, New Mexico, and Puerto Rico. Sites on the list are generally from the First Period of American architecture or earlier.\n\nTo be listed here a site must:\n\n\n\n\noldest ruined visitas and missions\nVisitas Sonoita Creek 1690\n\nRuined Mission at Atovi Hopi Village approximately 1678\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26293656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26293656", "title": "Miaohui", "text": "Miaohui\n\nMiaohui (庙会), literally temple gatherings or translated as temple fairs, also called yíngshén sàihuì (迎神赛会 \"collective rituals to greet the gods\"), are Chinese religious gatherings held by folk temples for the worship of the Chinese gods and immortals. Large-scale \"miaohui\" are usually held around the time of the Chinese New Year, or in specific temples at the birthday of the god enshrined in the temple itself. Activities usually include rituals celebrated in the temple, opera on a stage facing the temple, processions of the gods' images on carts throughout villages and cities, performance of musical and ritual troupes (of Taoists, sects and Confucian ritualists), blessing of offerings brought to the temple by families, and various economic activities.\n\nGeography and local customs lead to great differences in the nature of festivals dedicated to the gods. In northern China \"miaohui\" are usually week-long, with ceremonies held in large temples, and attended by tens of thousands of people; while in southern China they are a much more local practice, organised by village temples or clusters of temples of different villages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34901253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34901253", "title": "Mongolian shamanism", "text": "Mongolian shamanism\n\nMongolian shamanism, more broadly called the Mongolian folk religion, or occasionally Tengerism, refers to the animistic and shamanic ethnic religion that has been practiced in Mongolia and its surrounding areas (including Buryatia and Inner Mongolia) at least since the age of recorded history. The Mongolian endonym is Böö mörgöl (Бөө мөргөл). In the earliest known stages it was intricately tied to all other aspects of social life and to the tribal organization of Mongolian society. Along the way, it has become influenced by and mingled with Buddhism. During the socialist years of the twentieth century it was heavily repressed and has since made a comeback.\n\nYellow shamanism is the term used to designate the particular version of Mongolian shamanism which adopts the expressive style of Buddhism. \"Yellow\" indicates Buddhism in Mongolia, since most Buddhists there belong to what is called the Gelug or \"Yellow sect\" of Tibetan Buddhism, whose members wear yellow hats during services. The term also serves to distinguish it from a form of shamanism not influenced by Buddhism (according to its adherents), called black shamanism.\n\nMongolian shamanism is centered on the worship of the \"tngri\" (gods) and the highest \"Tenger\" (Heaven, God of Heaven, God) or \"Qormusta Tengri\". In the Mongolian folk religion, Genghis Khan is considered one of the embodiments, if not the main embodiment, of the Tenger. The Mausoleum of Genghis Khan in Ordos City, in Inner Mongolia, is an important center of this worship tradition.\n\nMongolian shamanism is an all-encompassing system of belief that includes medicine, religion, a reverence of nature, and ancestor worship. Central to the system were the activities of male and female intercessors between the human world and the spirit world, shamans (\"böö\") and shamanesses (\"udgan\"). They were not the only ones to communicate with the spirit world: nobles and clan leaders also performed spiritual functions, as did commoners, though the hierarchy of Mongolian clan-based society was reflected in the manner of worship as well.\n\nKlaus Hesse described the complex spiritual hierarchy in clan-based Mongolian society based on sources that go back to the 13th century. The highest group in the pantheon consisted of 99 \"tngri\" (55 of them benevolent or \"white\" and 44 terrifying or \"black\"), 77 \"natigai\" or \"earth-mothers\", besides others. The \"tngri\" were called upon only by leaders and great shamans and were common to all the clans. After these, three groups of ancestral spirits dominated. The \"Lord-Spirits\" were the souls of clan leaders to whom any member of a clan could appeal for physical or spiritual help. The \"Protector-Spirits\" included the souls of great shamans (\"ĵigari\") and shamanesses (\"abĵiya\"). The \"Guardian-Spirits\" were made up of the souls of smaller shamans (\"böö\") and shamanesses (\"udugan\") and were associated with a specific locality (including mountains, rivers, etc.) in the clan's territory.\n\nThe difference between great, white and small, black (in shamans, \"tngri\", etc.) was also formative in a class division of three further groups of spirits, made up of \"spirits who were not introduced by shamanist rites into the communion of ancestral spirits\" but who could nonetheless be called upon for help—they were called \"'the three accepting the supplications' (\"jalbaril-un gurban\")\". The whites were of the nobles of the clan, the blacks of the commoners, and a third category consisted of \"the evil spirits of the slaves and non-human goblins\". White shamans could only venerate white spirits (and if they called upon black spirits they \"lost their right in venerating and calling the white spirits\"), black shamans only black spirits (and would be too terrified to call upon white spirits since the black spirits would punish them). Black or white was assigned to spirits according to social status, and to shamans \"according to the capacity and assignment of their ancestral spirit or spirit of the shaman's descent line.\"\n\nNationwide reverence of Genghis Khan had existed until the 1930s, centered on a shrine which preserved mystical relics of Genghis, that was located in the Ordos Loop of the region of Inner Mongolia, in China. The Japanese, during the occupation of China, tried to take possession of the relics in order to catalyse a pro-Japanese Mongol nationalism, but they failed.\n\nWithin the Mongolian People's Republic (1924–92) the Mongolian native religion was suppressed, and Genghis' shrines destroyed. In Inner Mongolia, otherwise, the worship of the cultural hero persisted; the hereditary custodians of the shrines survived there, preserving ancient manuscripts of ritual texts, written partially in an unintelligible language called the \"language of the gods\".\n\nWith the establishment of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese rallied Mongol nationalism to the new state and constructed the Shrine of Genghis Khan (or Shrine of the Lord, as it is named in Mongolian) in Ordos City, where they gathered the old sanctuary tents, confirmed the guardians of the groups in office, and subsidised annual sacrifices.\n\nThe shrine in Ordos has since then become the focal point of a revival of Genghis Khan's reverence throughout Inner Mongolia. The Han Chinese, the major ethnic group in Inner Mongolia, pay themselves homage to him as the spiritual foundation of the Yuan dynasty. Various other temples of Genghis Khan, or branches of the shrine in Ordos, have been established in Inner Mongolia and northern China.\n\nOvoos or aobaoes (, Traditional Mongol: ) are sacrificial altars of the shape of a mound that are traditionally used for worship in the indigenous religion of Mongols and related ethnic groups. Every ovoo is thought as the representation of a god. There are ovoos dedicated to heavenly gods, mountain gods, other gods of nature, and also to gods of human lineages and agglomerations.\n\nIn Inner Mongolia, the aobaoes for worship of ancestral gods can be private shrines of an extended family or kin (people sharing the same surname), otherwise they are common to villages (dedicated to the god of a village), banners or leagues. Sacrifices to the aobaoes are made offering slaughtered animals, joss sticks, and libations.\n\nVarious aspects of shamanism, including the \"tngri\" and their chief deity Qormusata Tngri, are described in the thirteenth-century \"The Secret History of the Mongols\", the earliest historical source in Mongolian. Sources from that time period, though, do not present a complete or coherent system of beliefs and traditions. A much richer set of sources is found from the seventeenth century on; these present a Buddhist-influenced \"yellow\" shamanism but in the opinion of many scholars they indicate the continued tradition of an older shamanism.\n\nBuddhism first entered Mongolia during the Yuan dynasty (thirteenth-fourteenth century) and was briefly established as a state religion. The cult of Genghis Khan, who had been accepted into the \"tngri\", the highest pantheon of spirits in Mongolian shamanism, became annexed into Buddhist practice as well. Mongolia itself was at a political and developmental standstill until the sixteenth century, when after the conversion of Altan Khan Buddhism re-established itself. In 1691, after Outer Mongolia had been annexed by the Qing Dynasty, Buddhism became the dominant religion of the entire area and shamanism began incorporating Buddhist elements. Violent resistance in the eighteenth century by the hunting tribes of Northern Mongolia against the (Buddhist) ruling group, the Khalka Mongols, led to the foundation of black shamanism.\nDuring the Soviet domination of the Mongolian People's Republic, all varieties of shamanism were repressed; after 1991, when the era of Soviet influence was over, religion (including Buddhism and shamanism) made a comeback. Recent research by anthropologists has indicated that shamanism continues to be a part of Mongolian spiritual life; Ágnes Birtalan, for instance, recorded a series of invocations and chants to the important deity Dayan Deerh in 2005 in Khövsgöl Province.\n\nIn June 2017 psychology professors Richard Noll and Leonard George conducted fieldwork among Mongol shamans and posted to YouTube seven short videos of a nocturnal summer solstice (Ulaan Tergel) \"fire ritual\" held near midnight some 20 km outside Ulaanbaatar. The event was organized by Jargalsaichan, the head of the Corporate Union of Mongolian Shamans, and was closed to tourists.\n\nThe territory of the Buryats, who live around Lake Baikal, was invaded by the Russian Empire in the seventeenth century, and came to accept Buddhism in the eighteenth century at the same time they were recognizing themselves as Mongol; to which extent Buryat shamanism mixed with Buddhism is a matter of contention among scholars. A nineteenth-century division between black and white shamanism, where black shamanism called on evil deities to bring people misfortune while white shamanism invoked good deities for happiness and prosperity, had completely changed by the twentieth century. Today, black shamanism invokes traditional shamanic deities, whereas white shamanism invokes Buddhist deities and recites Buddhist incantations but wears black shamanist accoutrements. White shamans worship Sagaan Ubgen and Burkhan Garbal (the \"Ancestral Buddha\"). The proliferation of Buryat shamans in the 1990 to 2001 period is analyzed as an aspect of historical and genetic \"search for roots\" among the marginalized Buryat peoples of Mongolia, Russia and China by Ippei Shimamura, Associate Professor of Cultural anthropology and Mongolian Studies at the University of Shiga Prefecture in Japan\n\nAn important attribute for Mongolian shamans is shared with all other shamanisms of Inner Asia. Mongolian shaman drums may incorporate the shaman's ongon or ancestral spirit, as in a drum described by Carole Pegg, where the drum handle represents that ongon. The drum's skin was often made of horse skin, the drum itself standing for \"the saddle animal on which the shaman rides or the mount that carries the invoked spirit to the shaman.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2887556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2887556", "title": "Nggàm", "text": "Nggàm\n\nNggam () is a type of divination found among many groups in western Cameroon. Among the best documented is its practice by the Mambila people of Cameroon and Nigeria, in which the actions of spiders or crabs are interpreted by the diviner. The form used by the neighbouring Yamba people was described by Gebauer in 1964 based on experience in Mbem going back to before 1939, and more recently by Hermann Gufler (1996 and 2003). The crab form has been studied in north Cameroon by Walter van Beek (2013, 2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7098350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7098350", "title": "Palang Dharma Party", "text": "Palang Dharma Party\n\nThe Palang Dharma Party (, ; translated as \"power of Dharma\", or \"moral force\", PDP for short) was a Buddhist-inspired political party in Thailand founded by Chamlong Srimuang in 1988, associated with the Santi Asoke sect of Buddhism. The Thai word \"tham\" can be used to refer both to \"morality\", and \"dharma\", the teachings of Buddhism. Phak Phalang Tham was a political party, not to be confused with its precursor, \"Ruam Phalang\" (\"collective force\"), the campaign group that backed Chamlong Srimuang in the 1985 Bangkok gubernatorial election. To some extent, the PDP evolved into a political party from Ruam Phalang. The latter group was largely made up of Santi Asoke devotees, former Young Turks, and other political activists and community leaders. Many of the PDP's early members were drawn from the ranks of Ruam Phalang.\n\nThe Palang Dharma Party was founded by Chamlong Srimuang in May 1988. A retired major general and former governor of Bangkok, Chamlong was a devout Buddhist with strong ties to the Santi Asoke sect; he is known for his current vows of chastity, his vegetarianism and his strict adherence to the Eight Precepts of Buddhism. Although Chamlong won the 1985 election for Bangkok governor as an independent backed by Ruam Phalang, in the following years Chamlong's political future seemed to be increasingly compromised by his lack of backing by a formal political party. Ahead of the 1988 general election, he founded the Palang Dharma Party, although only after gaining the approval of an initially reluctant Phra Photirak, the founder and leader of the Santi Asoke Buddhist sect. As the election day approached, Santi Asoke members, including Photirak, provided out massive support for the new political party.\n\nChamlong founded the party in an attempt to \"purify\" Thai politics, as rampant corruption was often used to justify military coups d'état. With the Palang Dharma Party, a new type of politics was introduced to Thailand. The party's program was based on Buddhist principles. However the popularity of its leader contributed more to the party's success than its political platform. Palang Dharma was particularly popular with the urban middle-class in the Bangkok region. There it won 49 out of 55 seats in the 1990 elections for the Bangkok City Council and 32 out of 35 seats in the 1992 parliamentary election. Palang Dharma became a major force in Thai politics during the early-1990s. Its leader Chamlong was a key figure in the 1992 middle class protests against the military rule of Prime Minister Suchinda Kraprayoon, commonly known as the Black May, that led to the resignation of Suchinda.\n\nIn June 1988, the Palang Dharma Party released a brief \"platform policy\" document, submitted to the Interior Ministry as part of the required party registration procedures. The majority of the party's policies, presented under five headings in eighteen numbered points, were relatively general in nature; they included \"improving the quality of the bureaucracy, fighting corruption, decentralizing power, spreading wealth to the countryside, supporting increased employment, and creating a better military\".\n\nAccording to Southeast Asian politics specialist Duncan McCargo, there were definite advantages to the \"vagueness\" of this document. Firstly, the policy program revealed nothing about the wide range of conflicting views that existed within the political party, even upon its founding; that is, certain members' preferences for European-style democratic elements, the \"village socialism\" favored by Santi Asoke devotees, or the \"ethical capitalism\" supported by the more successful business-minded members. Furthermore, the lack of clearly delineated and specific policy promises in the Palang Dharma's publications gave elected party members the freedom to make policies as they saw fit down the road.\n\nMore significant than the Palang Dharma Party's policies themselves, however, was its Buddhist-inspired ideology of \"virtuous politics\". The Palang Dharma Pledge, which could be found in Palang Dharma's policy booklet, outlined four objectives: to act only \"in accordance with morality\", to refrain from vote-buying, not to lie, and not to aspire to political office. According to Chamlong, the purpose of the party was not to serve its members' personal desires to further their political careers, but rather to set an example \"which might inspire the formation of other parties with similar principles, leading to a radical change in Thai political culture\". Specifically, in terms of social policies, Palang Dharma hoped to encourage people \"to lead clean, diligent, frugal, honest, and self-sacrificing daily lives\".\n\nIn the end, however, beyond the seemingly unifying umbrella cause of \"morality\" and anti-corruption taken up by the Palang Dharma Party, what ultimately appears to have held the party together, at least for a time, was the tenuous leadership and popularity of Chamlong himself.\n\nThroughout its existence, the party suffered from the division between the Santi Asoke members like Chamlong who intransigently insisted on their principles and rejected compromise (the so-called \"temple\" faction), and its pragmatic faction of secular politicians who wanted to advance their careers and the party's influence. The \"temple faction\", or \"believers\", fundamentally rejected the role of money in Thai politics, but advocated self-sacrifice, hard work, sincerity and morality, even if this should mean to confine the role of the party to one of a minor, uninfluential, oppositional party. The secular faction, or \"careerists\", on the other hand were convinced that, in order to lead the country's development in the right direction, the party had to expand, to invite capable professionals and business people, to forge alliances and to join the government. The \"temple faction\" deemed the pragmatists to be opportunistic and suspected them of capitalising on the good reputation of the party and its founder. The \"careerists\" again considered the \"believers\" naive, out of touch with reality and unelectable if standing alone.\n\nParty leader Chamlong was able to use this factionalism to his benefit. He played off the factions against each other to defend and stabilize his own top position. He presented convincing, reasonable professionals as the party's figureheads, while the \"temple faction\" embodied the party's conscience and sought to tame some representatives' ambitions. Chamlong impinged upon the party's leadership elections, and threatened to resign when he felt his authority challenged.\n\nThe July 1988 general election marked the first time members of the Palang Dharma Party would run for elective office since the party's creation only two months prior. Although hesitant at first to endorse the creation of the Palang Dharma Party publicly, as the election approached, Santi Asoke members, including the Buddhist sect's founder, Phra Phothirak, showed their support for the party in a number of ways. For one, in order be recognized as an official party, the PDP was obligated to meet the Interior Ministry's party registration standards, including presenting evidence of having reached the legally required minimum of five thousand members belonging to various parts of the country. Such a requirement would have proven difficult, had it not been for the remarkable breadth of Santi Asoke's network of adherents; the required amount of signatures was quickly acquired within days, ultimately totaling 10,310 names at the time of submission.\n\nIn addition, the Palang Dharma Party chose to vie for over 300 parliamentary seats, a greater number than any other party at the time. Close to half of the PDP candidates selected to run were Santi Asoke followers. Unlike those who belonged to Ruam Phalang in 1985, the newly created PDP's members in 1988 were not simply campaigning on behalf of Chamlong; that is, a single charismatic personality. Rather, they themselves were candidates in the running. Chamlong had won the public over in the 1985 Bangkok gubernatorial election with his memorable and impressive ascetic Buddhist lifestyle, convincing voters of his sincerity, integrity, and modesty. Constituents admired the ethics of the former major general who, as a successful individual and well-known public figure, had given up his worldly possessions in order to live in a way that won over the urban poor. In comparison, these new Palang Dharma candidates who presented themselves in \"peasant garb\", promoted chastity and vegetarianism, and denounced materialistic temptations were initially perceived by some of the electorate as \"oddities, people out of sympathy with ordinary needs and popular opinion\" who had left behind \"normal\" Thai society in their moral quest for purity. In addition, the fact that Chamlong himself refrained from running for a seat in the 1988 election did nothing to improve the public's early impressions of the fledgling political party. Lastly, prior to the election, a number of prominent \"moral\" figures, including Police Colonel Seri Temiyavej, withdrew their potential candidacies, further weakening the PDP's party base.\n\nNevertheless, Chamlong's popularity and the large number of candidates put forth by the Palang Dharma Party appeared to endanger the positions of already-established political parties in the Thai Parliament. For the Prachakorn Thai Party leader Samak Sundaravej in particular, the rise of the PDP posed a direct threat to Samak's prime ministerial aspirations. Thus as part of their election strategy, Samak and his Prachakorn Thai Party attempted to discredit the burgeoning PDP by linking it heavily to Santi Asoke throughout their 1988 campaign. The Prachakorn Thai Party was well equipped to pursue such a tactic, given the strong, cohesive internal dynamics of the party's experienced campaign team. Their cause resonated with the Parian Tham Association, a conservative Buddhist organization which denounced Santi Asoke's \"illegality\" (due to its claim that it was not under the jurisdiction of sangha authority) and the sect's ties to the Palang Dharma Party. In June 1988, a Prachakorn Thai Party member admitted that his party had aided the organization in printing and distributing around 50,000 leaflets which condemned the PDP throughout Bangkok.\n\nUnfortunately, the fact Santi Asoke had made no secret of its affiliation with the Palang Dharma Party proved to be the latter's undoing in the 1988 election campaign. Political opponents exploited this connection, pointing to \"slip-ups\" such as that of \"Dokya\", the Santi Asoke magazine, which had labeled the emerging PDP as a \"golden dream\" and had quoted Phothirak as having said \"religion and politics were one and the same\". By this point, what had begun as a campaign strategy to discredit Chamlong and his PDP had escalated into a full-scale inquisition of the Santi Asoke sect, as orthodox sangha members became involved. Phra Sophon Ganabhorn, the assistant abbot of Wat Bowonniwet, the most prestigious royal temple in Bangkok, denounced Santi Asoke as a potential \"threat to the stability of Buddhism in Thailand\". The abbot went on to claim that \"As a top administrator who could become prime minister in the future, [Chamlong] should not support Santi Asoke, which has introduced a dangerous cult that could be dangerous to national security\". Underlying this criticism is the implication that having Palang Dharma Party members in parliament would seem to legitimize Santi Asoke, and by extension appear to allow for the creation of a new Thai Buddhist order which would disrupt religious and political stability within the nation.\n\nUltimately, while the Palang Dharma Party's founder Chamrong Srimuang was successful in winning Bangkok governorship in 1985 on his anti-corruption and Buddhist principles-inspired platform, the PDP was not as fortunate in its 1988 general election results. Of 357 total seats in Parliament, the PDP won only 14; that is, 3.9 percent of the available seats. Testifying to the effects of the harmful press against Santi Asoke, of the few newly elected PDP members of parliament, only one was a Santi Asoke follower. The other thirteen MPs were elected on the basis of other, more \"traditional\" reasons: they had previous parliamentary experience, they held high positions in the military, they were medical doctors or had a PhD, etc.\n\nIn the following years the Palang Dharma Party would grow in popularity, especially within Bangkok, due in great part to the continued popularity of its founder. The PDP would go on to win admirable victories in both the March and September 1992 general elections (41 and 47 seats, respectively), as well as a reasonably healthy number of seats in the July 1995 election (23 seats).\n\nAfter 1992, Chamlong passed on the chairmanship to business tycoon and former Social Action Party politician Boonchu Rojanastien, but remained the party's de facto leader until 1995. After the parliamentary election in September 1992, Phalang Dharma joined a Democrat-led government coalition under Chuan Leekpai, but retired from it in 1995, depriving Chuan of his parliamentary majority and forcing him to resign. This led to several members leaving the party and the leadership was handed over to Prime Minister-to-be Thaksin Shinawatra, an exponent of the pragmatist faction.\n\nAlready a successful businessman at the time, Thaksin Shinawatra joined the Palang Dharma Party in November 1994, taking the post of a Cabinet foreign minister, marking his political debut. Thaksin identified with the \"pragmatist\" faction of the Palang Dharma Party, as opposed to the \"temple\" faction largely formed by Santi Asoke devotees such as PDP founder Chamlong Srimuang. Indeed, at the time of his entry to the party, Thaksin's career could have been described as \"single-mindedly dedicated to the pursuit of wealth\", standing in stark opposition to that of \"temple\" faction party members who practiced lifestyles of thrift and moderation. Despite their apparent differences with Chamlong's religious principles, Thaksin as well as other wealthy \"new-generation Bangkok businessmen\" were reputedly drawn to the PDP due to its anti-corruption agenda and its promotion of \"new-style\" politics.\n\nThaksin's joining the Palang Dharma Party exacerbated existing conflict within the party. Specifically, a great number of PDP members objected to his holding the post of foreign minister, criticizing the appointment of \"outsiders\" such as new-generation businessmen to cabinet positions. Furthermore, after Chamlong relinquished party leadership to Thaksin in 1995, under the soon-to-be prime minister's leadership, the PDP moved in a direction increasingly distant from its founding Buddhist-inspired principles, thus further widening the divide between divergent party factions. Thaksin himself, as the face of the Phalang Dharma Party, served to further diminish the party's reputation with the public. Specifically, according to British writer Chris Baker and Thai economist Pasuk Phongpaichit, whereas Chamlong had steered the PDP in the direction of \"cleaner and more principled politics\", \"...in the public mind, Thaksin was a concession hunter associated with some of the most flagrant 'money politicians'... and with the corrupt and discredited 1991-2 coup junta.\"\n\nOn the subject of the PDP's eventual collapse in 1996 whilst under the leadership of Thaksin, Southeast Asian politics specialist Duncan McCargo writes, \"In effect, Thaksin had—in the space of twelve months—destroyed the bulk of the political 'credit' built up by Chamlong and the Phalang Tham over eleven years of hard work in the capital. Phalang Tham had become part of the problem with Thai politics, rather than part of the solution.\"\n\nUnder Thaksin the party moved away from religious policies and joined the coalition government of Banharn Silpa-archa, in which Thaksin served as deputy prime minister. From that time on, the party declined. By 1996, the Palang Dharma Party had fallen into near-total collapse due to factional conflicts within the party. The final decisive blow was struck in the November 1996 election, in which the PDP managed to procure only a single parliamentary seat, a devastating result compared to its respectable 23 seats won in the last election of July 1995. Almost immediately following the PDP's sobering electoral defeat, party leader Thaksin resigned from his top position. He cited the Democrats' landslide victory as an indicator of voters' demands from the new government: \"a prime minister and a good economic team\" in the face of economic hard times, a package neatly offered by the Democrats' \"cure for economy\" campaign pledge. Thaksin went on to say, \"What we [the PDP] have done [through Parliament in the past] has been rejected by society. We offered the best we could. We have never done anything bad.\" That is, in terms of the latter remark, Palang Dharma had supposedly \"always gone by the ethics, never bought votes and none of its ministers have ever been cited for corruption\".\n\nFollowing his resignation, Thaksin expressed his belief that the PDP would remain struggling for continued existence and growth due to \"its own limitations caused by its strict adherence to principles\". Specifically, while the former party leader professed having great respect for the underlying ideology of the PDP, he believed it nevertheless failed to \"adjust its thinking to keep up with the modern world\", having found the party to be \"too innocent\", \"disorganized\", and \"backward looking\" in his time at the PDP's helm.\n\nChamlong ran again for governor of Bangkok in 1996, but lost and left politics. Despite the political ground lost by the PDP in 1996 and in the following years, Buddhist criticism of the political establishment, as represented by Palang Dharma, and Chamlong's campaign for \"clean politics\" can be seen as one of the factors that led to the 1998 constitutional change.\n\nOn 14 July 1998, Thaksin launched the Thai Rak Thai Party, which was joined by many former Phalang Dharma leaders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25887755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887755", "title": "Psilocybe dumontii", "text": "Psilocybe dumontii\n\nPsilocybe dumontii is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family.\n\n"}
{"id": "21437416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21437416", "title": "Ratan Singh Bhangu", "text": "Ratan Singh Bhangu\n\nAkali Ratan Singh Bhangu Nihang was a Sikh historian and Nihang who wrote about the Sikhs' struggles and rise to power in North India, in his book Prachin Panth Prakash. In the beginning of the 19th century the British East India Company approached the Punjab frontier. They wanted to know about the Sikhs and their rise to power in the Punjab Region.\n\nRatan Singh Bhangu belonged to the bhangu Jat family of martyrs and had first-hand knowledge of the struggle and success of the \"Khalsa\". He, being a member of the ruling Sikh aristocracy, took upon himself to prove to the British the glory of the Sikh rise to the power in the Punjab and the complete legitimacy of Sikh domination. He was requested by Captain Murray, Agent to the Governor-General, to write the history of Sikhs, which he did under the title of the \"Prachin Panth Parkash\".\n"}
{"id": "14881493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14881493", "title": "School of the Nations (Bahá'í – Brazil)", "text": "School of the Nations (Bahá'í – Brazil)\n\nThe School of the Nations, \"Escola das Nações\", is a bilingual (English- Portuguese) internationalist Bahá'í school in Lago Sul, in the Federal District, Brazil for students from all nations and backgrounds, whose core values are based on the moral and ethical principles of the Bahá'í Faith. Its aim is for students to develop the qualities and understanding to become \"world citizens\".\n\nThe school was founded in 1980 by two North American families of educators who envisioned building a school around a new model of international education. The basis of this model was the Bahá'í teaching of \"unity in diversity\"; to create an environment in which students from different races, nationalities, cultures and religions could learn to live in peace and harmony, while developing their intellectual, physical and spiritual potentials to the highest degree.\n\nDuring the 1990 International Literacy Year the school cooperated with several communities on projects, one of which included sponsorship by the Secretary of Education of the Federal District.\n\nDuring a special session of the Brazilian Federal Chamber of Deputies honoring the 1996 visit of Madame Mary Rabbání, a Deputy of the Social Democratic Party (Brazil) noted the school as an example of the contributions of the Bahá'í faith in \"the economic and educational fields\".\n\nIn 2007 the school had 610 students enrolled on the two campuses: one for the Early Childhood program for students from ages 3 to 6 and the other for Elementary, Middle and High School. The school community is made up of Brazilian families, many of whom are part of diplomatic corps, as well as international families, (representing approximately 40 different countries), who are connected with various embassies, multi-national companies or non-governmental organizations such as UNICEF, the World Bank and the United Nations. There are 90 teachers on the staff including assistants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5858711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858711", "title": "Shalu Monastery", "text": "Shalu Monastery\n\nShalu Monastery () is small monastery south of Shigatse in Tibet. Founded in 1040 by Chetsun Sherab Jungnay, for centuries it was renowned as a centre of scholarly learning and psychic training and its mural paintings were considered to be the most ancient and beautiful in Tibet. Shalu was the first of the major monasteries to be built by noble families of the Tsangpa during Tibet's great revival of Buddhism, and was an important center of the Sakya tradition.\n\nIn 1329 a devastating earthquake demolished the temple of Shalu but was later rebuilt in 1333 by local lords under the command of Toghon Temür, last Khagan of the Mongol Empire. The new architectural framework of the monastery was dominated by Mongolian styles, with massive inward-sloping walls around a main courtyard and strong woodwork and glazed roof tiles from Qinghai.\n\nAt the time of the new establishment in the 1330s, Shalu Temple was under the command of the 11th Abbot, Buton Rinchen Drub, who lived 1290–1364. Buton was not merely a capable administrator but he is still remembered to this very day as a prodigious scholar and writer of the Sakya school and is Tibet's most celebrated historian. Buton catalogued all of the Buddhist texts at Shalu, some 4569 religious and philosophical works, and formatted them in a logical, coherent order. He also wrote the famous \"History of Buddhism in India and Tibet\" there, which many Tibetan scholars use in their study today.\n\nButon's activity inevitably attracted a great deal of attention to the monastery and brought in other Buddhist intellectuals from Tibet and India to study in the grounds amounting to some 3000 by 1360. After his death the monastery became an important centre of esoteric studies and Buddhist learning for centuries. Shalu Temple became known throughout the far east for its dedication to the study of Buddhist philosophy and practice.\n\nBy the 19th century, the monastery had become less influential and Tibetan scholars chose to study at the Gelug-dominated Samye, which had grown to be one of the most politically powerful in the Tibetan lands by this time. The monastery fell into ruin and little of the original 1330 structure remains, although the outer wall and the main building with damaged roofs still stands, and a number of 14th-century murals on the outer walls of the temple still follow an iconographic scheme developed by the great Buton himself. One of the murals is an allegory in which an elephant representing a human soul evolves through many steps and earthly trials to nirvana, becoming progressively white and purer in the cleansing process. Precise rules are still embedded into the walls on what the monks should wear, place their robes and how to behave in the central courtyard Deyangshar. Remnants of former mandala murals are concealed by over 100 thangkas, most of which were embroidered in Hangzhou, China in the 1920s.\n\nOnly two chapels of the Shalu temple are open to tourists today, although funds were allocated in 1995 for roof repair and the eventual restoration of the fine 14th-century structure by 2005.\n\nShalu Lakhang temple is in the centre of the monastery. On the ground floor, in the Tshomchen, Sakyamuni and his disciples are enshrined. The chapels flanking it house the Tanjur and the Kanjur books respectively. Chapels on the roof floor are typical Chinese blue tiled structures, housing Sakyamuni, Buton, and Arhats Buddhas. Massive delicate and old murals cover the walls of the monastery, mostly depicting stories from the life of the Buddha. Restoration and preservation are badly needed to protect those arts.\n\nShalu has four treasures which are of notable value. One is a sutra board, which is 700 years old and cannot be reassembled once broken apart, a piece of sutra printed against the board is regarded as good luck. Another is a brass urn, which is usually covered with a piece of red cloth and sealed; the holy water may clean 108 filths and is changed every 12 years. Another is a stone basin, which was the washbasin of the builder Chetsun Sherab Jungnay dating back to 1040; and another is a stone tablet, which was uncovered in the first construction of Shalu. The tablet displays a mantra which reads \"om mani Padme Hum\" and has four dagoba carved into it.\n\nRepair and reconstruction of Shalu Monastery began on May 13, 2009, according to the Chinese government Xinhua online news. \"The project, one of Tibet's biggest heritage renovation projects under the 11th Five Year Plan (2006–2010), involves reinforcement of its buildings, maintenance of sewage treatment facilities and improvement of fire and flood control systems\", a prefectural government official said. It is planned to spend more than 16 million RMB yuan on the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28155742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28155742", "title": "Sikhism in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Sikhism in the United Arab Emirates\n\nSikhism in the United Arab Emirates has a following of over 50,000; the majority of Sikhs in the UAE are found in Dubai and are expatriates hailing from Punjab, India. There are smaller numbers of Pakistani Sikhs also. \n\nThere is a Sikh Gurdwara in Dubai which serves over 10,000 worshippers. In June 2010, foundations were laid for the Guru Nanak Darbar. At a cost of $20 million, the large gurdwara is located in Jebel Ali, Dubai and will be the first 'official' Sikh temple in the entire Gulf, catering to the needs of the local Sikh community. An area of of land was given by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum for the construction of the building. A community member and local businessman who proposed the gurdwara remarked \"My dream is to make Guru Nanak Durbar the best, second only to the Golden Temple in Amritsar.\n\nGurunanak Darbar is modelled on both the Golden Temple and the gurdwara in Southall, London by Interior designer Paul Bishop. Apart from a large carpeted prayer hall, there are three smaller rooms for private functions, a meditation room, a library and the spacious 'langar' or common kitchen hall. The state-of-the-art kitchen can serve the 10,000 plus worshipers who come every Friday. \n\nTo develop religious values among the next generation of NRIs, special three-hour sessions are held for children on Saturdays at the temple where they are taught Punjabi, 'Kirtans' and how to behave in places of worship.\n\n"}
{"id": "148170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148170", "title": "Smokey Robinson", "text": "Smokey Robinson\n\nWilliam \"Smokey\" Robinson Jr. (born February 19, 1940) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and former record executive. Robinson was the founder and front man of the Motown vocal group the Miracles, for which he was also chief songwriter and producer. Robinson led the group from its 1955 origins as the Five Chimes until 1972 when he announced a retirement from the group to focus on his role as Motown's vice president.\n\nHowever, Robinson returned to the music industry as a solo artist the following year. Following the sale of Motown Records in 1988, Robinson left the company in 1990. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987. Robinson was awarded the 2016 Library of Congress Gershwin Prize for his lifetime contributions to popular music.\n\nSmokey Robinson was born to an African-American father and a mother of African-American and French ancestry into a poor family in the North End area of Detroit. His uncle Claude gave him the nickname \"Smokey Joe\" when he was a child. He attended Northern High School, where he was above average academically and a keen athlete, though his main interest was music and he formed a doo-wop group named the Five Chimes. At one point, he and Aretha Franklin lived several houses from each other on Belmont; he once said he has known Franklin since she was about five.\n\nRobinson said his interest in music started after hearing the groups Nolan Strong & the Diablos and Billy Ward and his Dominoes on the radio as a child. Robinson later listed Barrett Strong, a Detroit native, as a strong vocal influence. In 1955, he formed the first lineup of the Five Chimes with childhood friend Ronald White and classmate Pete Moore. Two years later, in 1957, they were renamed the Matadors and included Bobby Rogers. Another member, Emerson Rogers, was replaced by Bobby's cousin Claudette Rogers. The group's guitarist, Marv Tarplin, joined them sometime in 1958. The Matadors began touring Detroit venues around this time. They later changed their name to the Miracles.\n\nIn August 1957, Robinson and the Miracles met songwriter Berry Gordy after a failed audition for Brunswick Records. At that time during the audition, Robinson had brought along with him a \"Big 10\" notebook with 100 songs he wrote while in high school. Gordy was impressed with Robinson's vocals and even more impressed with Robinson's ambitious songwriting. With his help, the Miracles released their first single, \"Got a Job\", an answer song to the Silhouettes' hit single \"Get a Job\" on End Records. It was the beginning of a long and successful collaboration. During this time, Robinson attended college and started classes in January 1959, studying electrical engineering. Robinson dropped out after only two months following the Miracles' release of their first record.\n\nGordy formed Tamla Records which was later reincorporated as Motown. The Miracles became one of the first acts signed to the label. In point of fact, they had actually been with Gordy since before the formation of Motown Records. In late 1960, the group recorded their first hit single, \"Shop Around\", which became Motown's first million-selling hit record. Between 1960 and 1970, Robinson would produce 26 top forty hits with the Miracles as lead singer, chief songwriter and producer, including several top ten hits such as \"You've Really Got a Hold on Me\", \"Mickey's Monkey\", \"I Second That Emotion\", \"Baby Baby Don't Cry\" and the group's only number-one hit during their Robinson years, \"The Tears of a Clown\". Other notable hits such as \"Ooo Baby Baby\", \"Going to a Go-Go\", \"The Tracks of My Tears\", \"(Come Round Here) I'm The One You Need\", \"The Love I Saw in You Was Just a Mirage\" and \"More Love\" peaked in the top twenty. In 1965, the Miracles were the first Motown group to change their name when they released their 1965 album \"Going to a Go-Go\" as Smokey Robinson & the Miracles.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1966, Robinson was also one of the major songwriters and producers for Motown, penning many hit singles such as \"Two Lovers\", \"The One Who Really Loves You\", \"You Beat Me to the Punch\" and \"My Guy\" for Mary Wells; \"The Way You Do The Things You Do\", \"My Girl\", \"Since I Lost My Baby\" and \"Get Ready\" for the Temptations; \"When I'm Gone\" and \"Operator\" for Brenda Holloway; \"Don't Mess With Bill\", \"The Hunter Gets Captured by the Game\" and \"My Baby Must Be a Magician\" for the Marvelettes; and \"I'll Be Doggone\" and \"Ain't That Peculiar\" for Marvin Gaye. After the arrival of Holland–Dozier–Holland and the team of Norman Whitfield and Barrett Strong, he was eclipsed as a top writer and producer for the label, and other Motown artists such as Gaye and Stevie Wonder began to compose more original material. Later in his career, Robinson wrote lyrics and music for the Contours such as \"First I Look at the Purse\", as well as the Four Tops' \"Still Water\" and The Supremes' \"Floy Joy\".The other Miracles, Bobby Rogers,Pete Moore, Ronnie White, and Marv Tarplin collaborated with him as writers on many of these hits, and Pete Moore also doubled as co-producer with Robinson on several of them. \n\nBy 1969, Robinson wanted to retire from touring to focus on raising his two children with his wife Claudette and on his duties as Motown's vice president, a job he had taken on by the mid-1960s after Esther Gordy Edwards had left the position. However, the success of the group's \"Tears of a Clown\" made Robinson stay with the group until 1972. Robinson's last performance with the group was in July 1972 in Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter a year of retirement, Robinson announced his comeback with the release of the eponymous \"Smokey\" album, in 1973. The album included the Miracles tribute song, \"Sweet Harmony\" and the hit ballad \"Baby Come Close\". In 1974, Robinson's second album, \"Pure Smokey\", was released but failed to produce hits. Robinson struggled to compete with his former collaborators Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder and former Temptations member Eddie Kendricks, as all three had multiple hit singles during this period. Former Beatle George Harrison featured the track \"Pure Smokey\" on his 1976 album \"Thirty Three & 1/3\" as a tribute to Robinson. (Harrison's fellow Beatles John Lennon and Paul McCartney were also fans of Robinson's songwriting and the group covered \"You Really Gotta Hold on Me\" on their second UK album With the Beatles.)\n\nRobinson answered his critics the following year with \"A Quiet Storm\", released in 1975. The album launched three singles – the number-one R&B hit \"Baby That's Backatcha\", \"The Agony & The Ecstasy\" and \"Quiet Storm\". However, Robinson's solo career suffered from his work as Motown's vice president, and his own music took the backseat. As a result, several albums including \"Smokey's Family Robinson\", \"Deep in My Soul\", \"Love Breeze\" and \"Smokin\", saw poor promotion and received bad reviews. At this point Robinson relied on other writers and producers to help him with his albums.\n\nFollowing these albums, Robinson got out of a writer's block after his close collaborator Marv Tarplin, who joined him on the road in 1973 after Robinson left the Miracles, presented him a tune he had composed on his guitar. Robinson later wrote the lyrics that became his first solo top ten Pop single, \"Cruisin'\". The song hit number one in Cash Box and peaked at number four on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It also became his first solo number one in New Zealand. Robinson would follow a similar approach with his next album, \"Warm Thoughts\", which produced another top 40 hit, \"Let Me Be the Clock\", though it didn't repeat the success of \"Cruisin'\".\n\nIn 1981, Robinson topped the charts again with another sensual ballad, \"Being with You\", which was another number one hit in Cash Box and peaked at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It also hit number one in the United Kingdom, becoming his most successful single to date. The Gold-plus parent album sparked a partnership with George Tobin and with Tobin, Robinson released his next several Motown albums, \"Yes It's You Lady\", which produced the hits, \"Tell Me Tomorrow\", \"Touch the Sky\" and \"Essar\". In 1983, Robinson teamed up with fellow Motown label mate Rick James recording the R&B ballad, \"Ebony Eyes\".\n\nIn 1987, following a period of personal and professional issues, Robinson made a comeback with the album, \"One Heartbeat\" and the singles, \"Just to See Her\" and \"One Heartbeat\", which were Top 10 hits on \"Billboard\"s Pop, Soul, and Adult Contemporary charts. They were aided by hugely popular music videos. \"Just to See Her\" won Robinson his first Grammy Award in 1988. The album became one of his most successful ever, selling over 900,000 copies in the United States alone. In the same year, Robinson released \"One Heartbeat\", the UK group ABC released a tribute song, \"When Smokey Sings\" and he was inducted as a solo artist to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, later igniting controversy as the committee had inducted only Robinson and not members of his group, the Miracles, which Robinson was personally offended by. In 2012, however, the committee rectified the mistake announcing that the group would be inducted on their own merit. Though Robinson was not listed as an inductee, he was due to induct his former group at the ceremony in April 2012. \n\nAfter Motown was sold off to MCA in 1988, Robinson relinquished his position as vice president. Following the release of the album, \"Love Smokey\", in 1990, Robinson left Motown for a deal with SBK Records in 1991. However, the album, \"Double Good Everything\" failed to chart. Robinson remained virtually quiet during the nineties (though he would make a notable cameo appearance in The Temptations 1998 miniseries), making a brief comeback in 1999 when he re-signed with Motown and issued the album, \"Intimate\", which included the song \"Easy to Love\". In 2003, he once again split ties with Motown, releasing the gospel album, \"Food for the Soul\" on Liquid 8 Records in 2004. In 2004 Robinson sang the main title theme song \"Colorful World\" to the American children's animated series \"ToddWorld\" for Discovery Kids, TLC and Mike Young Productions. Two years later, Robinson released the standards album, \"Timeless Love\", in 2006 on Universal Records. In 2009, he issued the album, \"Time Flies When You're Having Fun\" on his own label, Robso Records. It reached number 59 on the \"Billboard\" album chart, his highest showing since \"One Heartbeat\". He subsequently released \"Now And Then\" in 2010, which peaked at number 131.\n\n\"Smokey & Friends\" was released in mid-August 2014. It was an album of duets, including ones with Elton John, Linda Ronstadt and James Taylor. It reached number 12 on the \"Billboard\" album chart.\n\n\"Christmas Everyday\" (an Amazon Original) is Robinson's 1st Post-Miracles Christmas album, and was released on Nov 10th 2017. In 2018, he appeared on an episode of CMT Crossroads alongside country singer Cam.\n\nRobinson is currently managed by Geffen Management Group, a talent management company founded by Jeremy Geffen, and whose artists under management include Jacob Latimore and the estate of the late singer/songwriter Marvin Gaye.\n\nOn July 31, 2018, Robinson appeared as a special guest on the Fox network's show, Beat Shazam as a special guest. \n\nSmokey is currently married to Frances Robinson, née Gladney. They were married in May 2002. Robinson married his fellow Miracles member Claudette Rogers in 1959. The couple had two children, son Berry Robinson (b. 1968), named after Motown's first label founder Berry Gordy, and daughter Tamla Robinson (b. 1969), named after the original \"Tamla\" label set up by Gordy that would eventually become Motown. Robinson has another son, Trey (b. 1984), with another woman, during his marriage to Claudette. After Robinson admitted this, he filed for legal separation and, later, divorce, which was granted in 1986. The Robinsons had separated once before, in 1974, and Robinson conducted an extramarital affair that became the concept of the song, \"The Agony & The Ecstasy\", later featured on \"A Quiet Storm\".\n\nRobinson has not eaten red meat since 1972. He practices Transcendental Meditation. Robinson is notable for having golden green eyes, which he attributes to having been passed down from his French great-grandmother.\n\nRobinson and his wife Frances own a home in Pittsburgh and currently use it as a winery.\n\nIn 2012, Robinson explained:\n\nMy Uncle Claude was my favorite uncle, he was also my godfather. He and I were really, really close. He used to take me to see cowboy movies all the time when I was a little boy because I loved cowboy movies. He got a cowboy name for me, which was Smokey Joe. So from the time I was three years old if people asked me what my name was I didn't tell them my name was William, I told them my name was Smokey Joe. That's what everyone called me until I was about 12 and then I dropped the Joe part. I've heard that story about him giving it to me because I'm a light skinned Black man but that's not true.\n\nIn 1987, Robinson was inducted to the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. That same year, he was awarded an individual star on the \"Hollywood Walk of Fame\". Smokey Robinson's single \"Just to See Her\"\" from the \"One Heartbeat\" album was awarded the 1988 Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance. This was Robinson's first Grammy Award. One year later, in 1989, he was inducted to the Songwriter's Hall of Fame. In 1993, Robinson was awarded a medal at the National Medal of Arts. Two years before, he won the Heritage Award at the Soul Train Music Awards. In 2005, Smokey Robinson was voted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame. At its 138th Commencement Convocation in May 2006, Howard University conferred on Robinson the degree of Doctor of Music, \"honoris causa\". In December 2006 Robinson was one of five Kennedy Center honorees, along with Dolly Parton, Zubin Mehta, Steven Spielberg and Andrew Lloyd Webber.\n\nOn March 20, 2009, the Miracles were finally honored as a \"group\" with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Smokey was present with original Miracles members Bobby Rogers, Pete Moore, (Bobby's cousin) Claudette Rogers, and Gloria White, accepting for her husband, the late Ronnie White, whose daughter Pamela and granddaughter Maya were there representing him as well. Smokey's replacement, 1970s Miracles lead singer Billy Griffin, was also honored.\n\nControversially, original Miracle Marv Tarplin was not honored, against the wishes of his fellow Miracles and the group's fans, who felt that he should have also been there to share the honor.\nLater, Tarplin did receive his star. He was also inducted with the rest of the original Miracles, Bobby Rogers, Pete Moore, Ronnie White, and Claudette Robinson, into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2012, 25 years after Robinson's controversial solo induction in 1987. He was also awarded Society of Singers Lifetime Achievement Award in 2011.\n\nIn 2009, Smokey Robinson received an honorary doctorate degree along with Linda Ronstadt and gave a commencement speech at Berklee College of Music's commencement ceremony. In 2015, he was given a BET Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nIn 2016, Robinson received the Library of Congress' Gershwin Prize for Popular Song; and, on August 21, 2016, Smokey Robinson was inducted into the Rhythm & Blues Hall of Fame in his hometown of Detroit, Michigan.\n\n"}
{"id": "57249297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57249297", "title": "Tenrikyo anthropology", "text": "Tenrikyo anthropology\n\nIn the Tenrikyo religion, Tenrikyo anthropology (天理人学 \"Tenri ningaku\") is the study of humanity and its relationship to God in the context of Tenrikyo theology. This is not to be confused with the social science of anthropology.\n\nThe core teaching regarding humankind's relationship to God is \"a thing lent, a thing borrowed\" (かしもの かりもの \"kashimono karimono\"), which is the belief that the human body is \"a thing lent\" by God and \"a thing borrowed\" by the human individual. Only the mind is owned by the individual; therefore, Tenrikyo's understanding of human nature is essentially mental. The concept is closely connected with other teachings related to anthropology such as dusts of the mind, rebirth, and causality.\n\nThe mind lies somewhere within the human body and the mind perceives the world through it. Tenrikyo's teachings do not precisely define what the mind is (e.g. consciousness, self, brain), nor do they explain how, exactly, the mind is one's own. However, they do describe the characteristics and features of the mind – for example, a mind can be resolved, replaced, purified, spirited, or gloomy.\n\nTenrikyo's teachings maintain that the original, fundamental nature of the human mind is clear and pure. There was no fall of man which has corrupted its nature. However due to the freedom given to the human mind, the mind regularly forgets its original nature and acts contrary to God's intention for human beings to live joyously together. These behaviors are referred to as dusts (ほこり \"hokori\"), suggesting that, just as dust collects on the surface of the floor over time, the mind commits wrong behaviors on a day to day basis. Also as with dust, the wrong behaviors can be swept away through devotion to God's teachings. Nakayama Miki taught her followers eight dusts of the mind – miserliness, covetousness, grudge-bearing, hatred, anger, self-love, greed, and arrogance.\n\nIn Tenrikyo, the entire human body is sustained by the providence of God. Tenrikyo's doctrine categorizes God's complete providence into ten aspects (十全の守護 \"jūzen no shugō\"), each aspect sustaining a particular function of the human body such as the digestive system (\"eating, drinking and elimination\") and the respiratory system (\"breathing and speaking\"). Each aspect also sustains a function in the world such as the water cycle (\"the rise and fall of moisture\") and wind, implying that the same God that gives life to human bodies also governs the natural phenomena of the world.\n\nIn Tenrikyo, God shows how well one's mind is being handled by reflecting the state of the mind in the body. This is the principle behind divine guidance (手引 \"tebiki\"). When the mind is handled according to God's intention, the blessings of God flow easily into the body and the individual is able to use the body freely. However, if the mind is handled selfishly, against God's intention, then it will accumulate the dusts of the mind. The dusts clog or obstruct the blessings of God, resulting in a bodily affliction.\n\nTenrikyo affirms the concept of reincarnation, where the soul continually returns into the world with a new biological life after the death of the previous one. Reincarnation also appears in Indian religions such as Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism.\n\nTenrikyo's understanding of reincarnation is referred to as \"denaoshi\" (出直し, \"to make a fresh start\"). \"Denaoshi\" is related to the teaching of a thing lent, a thing borrowed, in that when a person's physical body dies, the soul is returning to God the body that has been borrowed from God. This allows the soul to accept a new body to be lent by God and thus reenter the physical world. Though the reborn person has no memory of the previous life, the person's thoughts and deeds leave their mark on the soul and are carried over into the new life as the person's causality (see section on causality). \n\nNakayama Miki taught that the process of \"denaoshi\" is like taking off old clothes in order to put on new ones, an image that emphasizes the materiality of the body. Human beings are given countless opportunities to realize the world of the Joyous Life (the state of salvation) in this world, as opposed to another realm in the afterlife such as heaven.\n\nTenrikyo's understanding of karmic belief is referred to as \"innen\" (いんねん) or causality.\n\nBroadly speaking, karma refers to the spiritual principle of cause and effect where intent and actions of an individual (cause) influence the future of that individual (effect). In other words, a person's good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering. Causality upholds this basic tenet of karma; in the same manner, a person experiences good and bad causality. In Tenrikyo, the concept is encapsulated in the farming metaphor, \"every seed sown will sprout.\" Causality also upholds another basic tenet of karma, which is that this personal responsibility carries over many deaths and rebirths of the soul.\n\nThough Tenrikyo borrows the term \"innen\" from Buddhism and shares the fundamental notions of karma with Buddhism, the concept of \"innen\" has different implications in Tenrikyo because its understanding of creation and salvation are distinct from that of Buddhism. To make this distinction clear in writing, Tenrikyo discourse typically renders the term in \"hiragana\" (i.e. いんねん) instead of the \"kanji\" found in Buddhist discourse (i.e. 因縁).\n\nAt the focal point of Tenrikyo's ontological understanding is the positing of \"original causality\", or \"causality of origin\" (もとのいんねん \"moto no innen\"), which is that God the Parent created human beings to see them live the Joyous Life (the salvific state) and to share in that joy. Tenrikyo teaches that the Joyous Life will eventually encompass all humanity, and that gradual progress towards the Joyous Life is even now being made with the guidance of divine providence. Thus the concept of original causality has a teleological element, being the gradual unfolding of that which was ordained at the beginning of time.\n\nThe process of preordaining \"original causality\" and developing human beings is taught through Tenrikyo's creation narrative.\n\nBelief in \"individual causality\" is related to the principle of original causality. Individual causality is divine providence acting to realize the original causality of the human race, which through the use of suffering guides individuals to realize their causality and leads them to a change of heart and active cooperation towards the establishment of the Joyous Life, the world that was ordained at the beginning of time.\n\nTenrikyo's doctrine explains that an individual's suffering should not be perceived as punishment or retributive justice from divine providence for past misdeeds, but rather as an sign of encouragement from divine providence for the individual to reflect on the past and to undergo a change of heart. The recognition of the divine providence at work should lead to an attitude of \"tanno\" (たんのう \"joyous acceptance\" in Tenrikyo gloss), a Japanese word that indicates a state of satisfaction. \"Tanno\" is a way of settling the mind – it is not to merely resign oneself to one’s situation, but rather to actively “recognize God’s parental love in all events and be braced by their occurrence into an ever firmer determination to live joyously each day.” In other words, Tenrikyo emphasizes the importance of maintaining a positive inner disposition, as opposed to a disposition easily swayed by external circumstance.\n\nIn addition, \"The Doctrine of Tenrikyo\" names \"three causalities\" (\"san innen\" さんいんねん) that are believed to predetermine the founding of Tenrikyo's teachings. More precisely, these causalities are the fulfillment of the promise that God made to the models and instruments of creation, which was that \"when the years equal to the number of their first born had elapsed, they would be returned to the Residence of Origin, the place of original conception, and would be adored by their posterity.\" The \"Causality of the Soul of Oyasama\" denotes that Miki Nakayama had the soul of the original mother at creation (\"Izanami-no-Mikoto\"), who conceived, gave birth to, and nurtured humankind. The \"Causality of the Residence\" means that the Nakayama Residence, where Tenrikyo Church Headquarters stands, is the place that humankind was conceived. The \"Causality of the Promised Time\" indicates that October 26, 1838 – the day when God became openly revealed through Miki Nakayama – marked the time when the years equal to the number of first-born humans (900,099,999) had elapsed since the moment humankind was conceived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3146276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3146276", "title": "The Quest for the Historical Muhammad (Ibn Warraq)", "text": "The Quest for the Historical Muhammad (Ibn Warraq)\n\nThe Quest for the Historical Muhammad (2000), edited by Ibn Warraq, is an anthology of 15 studies examining the origins of Islam and the Qur'an. The contributors argue that traditional Islamic accounts of its history and the origins of the Qur'an are fictitious and based on historical revisionism aimed at forging a religious Arab identity.\n\nIn his review, Daniel Pipes praised the book as a \"fascinating collection of essays\" that raises \"basic questions for Muslims concerning the prophet's role as a moral paragon\".\n\nOther well-known American scholars such as Fred Donner has criticized the selection of essays, and described it as a \"monument to duplicity\". Donner writes that Warraq unduly favors revisionist theories in order to advance \"anti-Islam polemic\", forwarding that \"this lopsided character makes \"The Quest for the Historical Muhammad\" a book that is likely to mislead many an unwary general reader.\" Alfons Teipen, a professor of religion at Furman University, criticized the editing: \"The two introductory articles ... are one-sided, rather polemical overview[s] of ... scholarship on the life of Muhammad.\" \n\nAsma Afsaruddin described the book as a \"partisan work\" and added that Warraq \"clearly has an ideological axe to grind\". Asma states that \"poor editing, sloppy transliteration, and ad hominem attacks on certain authors...especially Watt, add to the chagrin of the reader\", and argued that \"Ibn Warraq is not interested in debate; he wants nothing less than wholesale conversion to his point of view within the community of scholars of Islam\" and added that his book \"needlessly poisons the atmosphere and stymies efforts to engage in honest scholarly discussion\".\n\nIn his review of the book, As'ad AbuKhalil states that Ibn Warraq collected old writings by Orientalists who have been long discredited and added that \"the more rigid and biased the Orientalists, the better for Warraq\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4520387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4520387", "title": "The Shakertown Pledge", "text": "The Shakertown Pledge\n\nThe Shakertown Pledge is a written oath created to draw attention to the inequality of worldwide wealth distribution. It was written on April 30, 1973, in a town near Lexington, Kentucky, which was historically connected to the Shaker Movement. The Pledge itself was a response to the inequality of distribution of global wealth and resources, and called for group action by Christians to rectify the problem.\n\nThe text of the oath is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "85717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85717", "title": "Tinia", "text": "Tinia\n\nTinia (also Tin, Tinh, Tins or \"Tina\") was the god of the sky and the highest god in Etruscan mythology, equivalent to the Roman Jupiter and the Greek Zeus. He was the husband of Thalna or Uni and the father of Hercle.\n\nThe Etruscans believed in Nine Great Gods, who had the power of hurling thunderbolts; they were called \"Novensiles\" by the Romans. Of thunderbolts there were eleven sorts, of which Tinia, as the supreme thunder-god, wielded three. Tinia was also part of the powerful \"trinity\" that included Menrva and Uni, and had temples in every city of Etruria. Tinia was sometimes represented as seated and with a beard or sometimes standing and beardless. In terms of symbolism, Tinia has the thunderbolt and the rod of power, and is generally accompanied by the eagle and sometimes has a wreath of ivy round his head, in addition to the other insignia of Jove.\n\nSome of Tinia's possible epithets are detailed on the Piacenza Liver, a bronze model of a liver used for haruspicy. These inscriptions have been transcribed as \"Tin Cilens\", \"Tin Θuf\" and \"Tinś Θne\". There have been a number of suggestions as to their meaning, but the Etruscan language is poorly understood and there is no scholarly consensus for the translation.\n\nTinia appears in several inscriptions, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "36768488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36768488", "title": "Tlalocayotl", "text": "Tlalocayotl\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Tlalocayotl (pronounced '*Tlah-low-kye-ottle') is the god of the East wind. His brothers are Cihuatecayotl, Mictlanpachecatl, and Huitztlampaehecatl, who personify the winds from the west, north, and south, respectively.\n\nEurus\n\nSubsolanus\n"}
{"id": "8641432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641432", "title": "Triple candlestick", "text": "Triple candlestick\n\nA triple candlestick is until 1955 prescribed in the Roman Rite Easter Vigil service, held on Holy Saturday morning.\n\nIn the associated ceremony, the deacon or priest lights each of its three candles in succession, chanting each time in ascending tones, \"Lumen Christi\" (The light of Christ), to which the choir answers \"Deo gratias\" (Thanks be to God). From one of the candles on the triple candlestick, the Paschal Candle is afterwards lit during the chanting of the \"Exsultet\".\n\nIn 1955 the triple candlestick was abolished in the liturgical reforms of Pope Pius XII. Since then, even with the promulgation of new editions of the Roman Missal from 1962 onward, the Paschal Candle is lit directly from the Paschal fire at the beginning of the Easter Vigil Mass.\n"}
