{"id": "13323241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13323241", "title": "Ahimsa in Jainism", "text": "Ahimsa in Jainism\n\nAhinsā (\"\") in Jainism is a fundamental principle forming the cornerstone of its ethics and doctrine. The term \"ahinsa\" means nonviolence, non-injury or absence of desire to harm any life forms. Vegetarianism and other nonviolent practices and rituals of Jains flow from the principle of \"ahinsa\". The Jain concept of \"ahinsa\" is very different from the concept of nonviolence found in other philosophies. Violence is usually associated with causing harm to others. But according to the Jain philosophy, violence refers primarily to injuring one's own self – behaviour which inhibits the soul's own ability to attain \"moksha\" (liberation from the cycle of births and deaths). At the same time it also means violence to others because it is this tendency to harm others that ultimately harms one's own soul. Furthermore, the Jains extend the concept of \"ahinsa\" not only to humans but to all animals, plants, micro-organisms and all beings having life or life potential. All life is sacred and everything has a right to live fearlessly to its maximum potential. Living beings need not fear those who have taken the vow of \"ahinsa\". According to Jainism, protection of life, also known as \"abhayadānam\", is the supreme charity that a person can make.\n\n\"Ahinsa\" does not merely indicate absence of physical violence, but also indicates absence of desire to indulge in any sort of violence. Jains have strongly advocated vegetarianism and nonviolence throughout the ages.\n\nJain texts expound that there are ten life essentials or life-principles, these are: the five senses, energy, respiration, life-duration, the organ of speech, and the mind. Living beings are classified on the basis of their sensory organs () and life essentials () they possess. According to Jain texts :\n\nAccording to \"Tattvarthasutra\", one of the most important Jainism scriptures, \"the severance of vitalities out of passion is injury\". Therefore, the higher the number of senses and vitalities a being has, the more is its capacity to suffer and feel pain. Hence according to Jainism, violence to higher-sensed beings like man, cow, tiger and those who have five senses and the capacity to think and feel pain attracts more \"karma\" than violence to lesser-sensed beings like insects, or single-sensed beings like microbes and plants.\nOut of the five types of living beings, a householder is forbidden to kill, or destroy, intentionally, all except the lowest (the one sensed, such as vegetables, herbs, cereals, etc., which are endowed with only the sense of touch). But, the ascetic is required to avoid even injuring the one-sensed form of life to the best of his ability.\n\nHence Jainism enjoins its adherents to completely avoid violence to higher-sensed beings and as far as possible minimise violence to lower-sensed and single-sensed beings.\n\nIn Jainism, both ascetics and householders (\"śrāvaka\") have to follow five major vows (\"vratas\"). Ascetics observe these fives vows more strictly and therefore observe complete abstinence.\n\n1. \"Ahinsa\" is formalised into Jain doctrine as the first and foremost vow. The votary must not to hurt any living being by actions, words or thoughts. The Jain text \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\" deals with the conduct required of the householder (\"śrāvaka\") and therefore discusses the fundamental vow of \"Ahimsa\" in detail. There are two types of Ahinsa - Bhaav Ahinsa and Karm Ahinsa. Bhaav Ahinsa is thinking to hurt someone in the thoughts and intentions where as Karm Ahinsa is hurting someone through some actions or words. The text expounds that \"all these subdivisions (injury, falsehood, stealing, unchastity, and attachment) are \"hiṃsā \" as indulgence in these sullies the pure nature of the soul. Falsehood etc. have been mentioned separately only to make the disciple understand through illustrations.\"\n\n2. \"Satya\" (Truth)- The underlying cause of falsehood is passion and therefore, it is said to cause \"hiṃsā\" (injury). According to Jain text \"Sarvārthasiddhi\", translates S.A. Jain, \"that which causes pain and suffering to the living is not commendable, whether it refers to actual facts or not is immaterial\".\n\n3. \"Asteya\" (Non-thieving)- According to \"Puruşārthasiddhyupāya\":\n4. \"Brahmacharya\"- It means chastity for householders and celibacy in action, words & thoughts for ascetics.\n\n5. \"Aparigraha\" (Non-possession)- According to Jain texts, attachment to possessions (\"parigraha\") is of two kinds: attachment to internal possessions (\"ābhyantara parigraha\"), and attachment to external possessions (\"bāhya parigraha\"). The fourteen internal possessions are: Wrong belief, the three sex-passions (male sex-passion, female sex-passion, and neuter sex-passion), also the six defects (laughter, liking, disliking, sorrow, fear, and disgust), and four passions (anger, pride, deceitfulness, and greed). According to Jain texts, \"internal possessions are proved to be hiṃsā as these are just another name for \"himsā\"\". External possessions are divided into two sub-classes, the non-living, and the living. \"External possessions, due to the passion of attachment in them, result into \"himsā\".\"\n\nThese five vows are called \"Mahāvratas\" (major vows) when observed by an ascetic. is the first and foremost of all vows. Jain monks and nuns must rank among the most \"nonviolent\" people in the world. A Jain ascetic is expected to uphold the vow of to the highest standard, even at the cost of his own life. The other four major vows – truthfulness, non-stealing, non-possession and celibacy – are in fact extension of the first vow of complete nonviolence.\n\nThe ascetic practices of total renunciation of worldly affairs and possessions, refusal to stay in a single place for a long time, continuous practice of austerities like fasting etc. are geared towards observance of . The Jain mendicants abide by a rigorous set of rules of conduct, where they must eat, sleep and even walk with full diligence and with an awareness that even walking kills several hundreds of minute beings. Jain ascetics sweep the ground before them to avoid injuring the most minuscule forms of life. They generally brush the ground clear of insects before they tread. Digambara monks do not wear any clothes and eat food only when it is not prepared for themselves. Ascetics of the Śvētāmbara tradition wear a small mask to avoid taking in tiny insects. The observation of three or the controls of mind, speech and body and five \"samiti\" are designed to help the monks in observing the vow of \"Ahinsa\" faultlessly. A monk is required to cultivate the habit of carefulness (\"samti\"), in respect of the following five particulars:-\n\n\nThe entire day of a Jain monk is spent in ensuring that he observes his vow of \"ahinsa\" through mind, body and speech faultlessly. This seemingly extreme behaviour of the monks comes from a sense that every action, no matter however subtle, has a karmic effect which can bind soul and inhibit liberation, especially those that result in \"hiṃsā\" (injury).\n\nA Jain layman, on account of his household and occupational compulsions, is unable to adhere to the five major vows of ascetic. Hence he observes \"aṇuvrata\" or minor vows which although are similar to the major vows of the ascetics are observed with a lesser severity. It is difficult to avoid some violence by a lay person to single-sensed immobile beings in the process of occupation, cooking, self-defense etc. That is why he vows not to kill without a necessary purpose and determined intention, a moving sentient being, when it is innocent. Tying up, injuring, mutilating, burdening with heavy load and depriving from food and drinks any animal or human being, with one's mind polluted by anger and other passions are the five \"\" or transgressions of the vow of \"ahinsa\". However, it is to be understood that ultimately, there is limited spiritual progress and no emancipation unless the major vows are adhered to.\n\nJainism is perhaps the only religion in the world that requires all its adherents to follow a strict vegetarian diet. Vegetarian food that also involves more harm to the living beings such as roots, bulbs, multi seeded vegetables etc. are avoided by strict Jains. The importance of \"ahinsa\" manifests in many other ways in the daily life of Jains. For a layperson it means participating in business that results in least amount of violence to living beings. No furs, plumes or silk are worn. Use of leather is kept to a minimum and must in any event be from naturally dead animals. Food is usually eaten during the day unless unavoidable, since there is too much danger of injuring insects in cooking at night. The Jain will not use an open light nor leave a container of liquid uncovered lest a stray insect be destroyed; even with this precaution, liquids are always strained before use. Through the ages Jains have sought to avoid occupations that unavoidably entail injury, and this accounts for the disproportionate number who have entered banking, commerce and other mercantile trades.\n\nJain text list down five transgressions of the vow of \"ahinsa\":\n\n\nA king who fights in defending his empire, however, does not violate the vow of \"ahinsa\", for his motive is to protect his subjects. The same is the case with the judge who punishes to maintain law and order.\n\nWhile Jainism enjoins observance of total nonviolence by the ascetics, it is often argued that the man is constantly obliged to engage in destructive activities of eating, drinking, breathing and surviving in order to support his body. According to Jainism, life is omnipresent with infinite beings including microorganisms pervading each and every part of the universe. Hence it may still be possible to avoid killing of gross animals, but it is impossible to avoid killing of subtle microorganisms in air and water, plant life and various types of insects that may be crushed by walking.\n\nHowever, the Jain conception of \"ahinsa\" is quite different from what is commonly understood by violence. The violence is defined more by the motives and the consequences to the self rather than by the act itself. Furthermore, according to Jain Scriptures, destruction of less developed organism brings about lesser \"karmas\" than destruction of developed animals and \"karmas\" generated in observance of religious duties faultlessly disappears almost immediately. Hence, it is possible to observe complete nonviolence with right knowledge, even when some outward violence occurs to living beings in the course of performing religious duties by observing carefulness and pure mental disposition without any attachment.\n\nAccording to Jainism, a monk who is careless in his activities is guilty of violence irrespective of whether a living being remains alive or dies; on the other hand, the person who is ever vigilant and careful in observing the \"samitis\" experiences no karmic bondage simply because some violence may have taken place in connection with his activities. Carefulness came to be seen as a defence for the monks against violence in Jainism. \"Tattvārthasūtra\" defines \"hiṃsā\" or violence simply as \"removal of life by careless activity of mind, body and speech.\" Thus action in Jainism came to be regarded as truly violent only when accompanied by carelessness.\n\n\"Ahinsa\" does not merely indicate absence of physical violence, but also indicates absence of desire to indulge in any sort of violence. Jains have strongly advocated vegetarianism and nonviolence throughout the ages. \"Ahinsa\" being central to the Jain philosophy, Jain Ācāryas have produced, through ages, quite elaborate and detailed doctrinal materials concerning its various aspects.\nPaul Dundas quotes \"Ācārya Jinabhadra\" (7th century), who shows that the omnipresence of life-forms in the universe need not totally inhibit normal behaviour of the ascetics:\n\nThus pure intention along with carefulness was considered necessary to practice as Jains admitted that even if intention may be pure, careless activities often resulted in violence unknowingly.\n\nThe Jains also considered right knowledge as a prerequisite for practising . It is necessary to know what is living and what is non-living to practice faultlessly. A person who is confused between Living and non-living can never observe non-violence. \"Daśavaikālika Sūtra\" declared:\n\nIt further declares:\nThe knowledge is also considered necessary to destroy \"Karmas\". Samaṇ Suttaṁ declared:\n\n\"Anekantavada\" is the principle of relativity of truth or the doctrine of multiple aspects. Jains hold that truth is multifaceted and has multiple sides that cannot be completely comprehended by anyone. Anekantavada describes the world as a multifaceted, ever-changing reality with an infinity of viewpoints relative to the time, place, nature and state of one who is the viewer and that which is viewed. What is true from one point of view is open to question from another. Absolute truth cannot be grasped from any particular viewpoint alone, because absolute truth is the sum total of all different viewpoints that make up the universe. Because it is rooted in these doctrines, Jainism cannot exclusively uphold the views of any individual, community, nation, or species. It recognises inherently that other views are valid for other peoples, and for other life-forms. This perception leads to the doctrine of syadvada or sevenfold predication stating the truth from different viewpoints. Anekantvada is the doctrine and Syadvada is its expression. According to Jaina philosophers all important philosophical statements should be expressed in this sevenfold way in order to remove the danger of dogmatism (\"ekanta\") in philosophy.\n\nThe concept of \"syadvada\" allows the Jains to accept the truth in other philosophies from their perspectives, thus inculcating a tolerance for other viewpoints. Anekantvada is non-absolutist and stands firmly against all dogmatisms, even including any assertion that only Jainism is the right religious path.\n\nĀcārya Amṛtacandra has described as to how the consequences of violence (karmas attracted) differ from person to persons for similar and different types of acts. A small violence may bring serious consequences to one person, while to another person grievous violence may bring about lesser consequences. For instance, a person hunting and killing only one small animal suffers severe consequences while a person who is building a temple or hospital suffers milder karmic consequences even though its construction kills many animals. Even when violence is jointly committed by two persons, the same act may result in severe consequence for one person and mild consequence for another person. This may happen in the case where the leader and planner of violence binds severe \"karmas\", while a follower binds much lesser \"karmas\". One who actually does not commit violence may be responsible for \"hiṃsā\" while one who actually commits violence is not responsible for hiṃsā. For instance, a burglar who fails in his robbery is still a felon but a diligent surgeon who is trying to save a patient is not responsible for violence even if a patient dies during the surgery. Persons who have not committed violence may become responsible for violence committed by others. This may happen when a violence which is carried out by someone is approved and instigated by someone else. often gives result of \"himsa\" to one and \"himsa\" may sometimes give result of \"ahinsa\" to another. For instance, one person saves another from oppression by use of violence and hence enjoys consequences of \"ahinsa\" although resorting to violence, while another does not act to save someone wishing that the other person is not saved and thus suffers the consequences of violence although he may have not actually done anything.\n\nWhile the Jain ascetics observe absolute nonviolence, so far as a Jain householder is concerned, the violence is categorised as follows:\n\nIt would be wrong, however, to conclude that only prohibits physical violence. An early Jain text says: \"With the three means of punishment – thoughts, words, deeds – ye shall not injure living beings.\" In fact, violence can be committed by combination of the following four factors:\n\n1. The instrumentality of our actions. We can commit violence through\n2. The process of committing violence. This includes whether\n3. The modality of our action, whether\n4. The motivation for action. This includes which of the following negative emotions motivate the violence.\n\nIn Jainism, \"non-manifestation of passions like attachment is non-injury (\"Ahinsa\"), and manifestation of such passions is injury (\"himsa\").\" This is termed as the essence of the Jaina Scriptures.\n\nAccording to Jainism, the purpose of nonviolence is not because it is a commandment of a God or any other supreme being. Its purpose is also not simply because its observance is conducive to general welfare of the state or the community. While it is true that in Jainism, the moral and religious injunctions were laid down as law by Arhats who have achieved perfection through their supreme moral efforts, their adherence is just not to please a God, but the life of the Arhats has demonstrated that such commandments were conductive to Arhat's own welfare, helping him to reach spiritual victory. Just as Arhats achieved spiritual victory by observing non-violence, so can anyone who follows this path.\n\nAnother aspect that provides a rationale to the avoidance of \"hiṃsā\" is that, any acts of \"himsā\" results in \"himsā\" to self. Any act of violence though outwardly is seen to harm others, harms the soul of the person indulging in the act. Thus by an act of violence, a soul may or may not injure the material vitalities known as of someone else, but always causes injury to its own \"bhāva praṇa\" or the psychic vitalities by binding the soul with \"karmas\". It would be entirely wrong to see \"Ahinsa\" in Jainism in any sentimental light. The Jain doctrine of non-injury is based on rational consciousness, not emotional compassion; on responsibility to self, not on a social fellow feeling. The motive of is totally self-centered and for the benefit of the individual. And yet, though the emphasis is on personal liberation, the Jain ethics makes that goal attainable only through consideration for others.\n\nFurthermore, according to the Jain karmic theory, each and every soul, including self, has reincarnated as an animal, plant or microorganism innumerable number of times besides re-incarnated as humans. The concept of is more meaningful when understood in conjunction with the concept of karmas. As the doctrine of transmigration of souls includes rebirth in animal as well as human form, it creates a humanitarian sentiment of kinship amongst all life forms. The motto of Jainism – , translated as: \"all life is inter-related and it is the duty of souls to assist each other\"- also provides a rational approach of Jains towards Ahinsa.\n\nIn conclusion, the insistence of \"ahinsa\" is not so much about non-injury to others as it is about non-injury and spiritual welfare of the self. The ultimate rationale of \"ahinsa\" is fundamentally about karmic results of the \"hiṃsā\" on self rather than the concern about the well being of other beings for its own sake.\n\nJain vegetarian diet is practised by the followers of Jain culture and philosophy. It is considered one of the most rigorous forms of a spiritually motivated diet on the Indian subcontinent and beyond. The Jain cuisine is completely vegetarian, and it also excludes potatoes, onions and garlic, like the shojin-ryori cuisine of Japan.\n\nAccording to Amṛtacandra Sūri:\nThe strictest forms of Jain diet are practised by the monastic ascetics. It also excludes potatoes and other root vegetables. The scrupulous and thorough way of applying nonviolence to everyday activities, and especially to food, shapes their entire lives and is the most significant hallmark of Jain identity.\nFor Jains, lacto-vegetarianism (generally known simply as vegetarianism in India) is mandatory. Food which contains even small particles of the bodies of dead animals or eggs is absolutely unacceptable. Some Jain scholars and activists support veganism, as the production of dairy products is perceived to involve violence against cows.\nStrict Jains don't eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions, roots and tubers. This is so because tiny life forms are injured when the plant is pulled up and because the bulb is seen as a living being, as it is able to sprout. Also, consumption of most root vegetables involves uprooting and killing the entire plant, in contrast to consumption of most other terrestrial vegetables, upon which the plant lives on after plucking the vegetables (or it was seasonally supposed to wither away anyway). Mushrooms, fungi and yeasts are forbidden because they are parasites, grow in non-hygienic environments, and may harbour other life forms. Alfalfa is the only known plant that contains vitamin D, which they may use directly or make vitamin D supplements from. Honey is forbidden, as its collection would amount to violence against the bees.\nJains are also not supposed to consume food left overnight because of contamination by microbes. Most Jain recipes substitute for potato with plantain.\n\nThe Jain scriptures discuss various misconceptions that are harboured in case of \"Ahinsa\". They often oppose the Vedic beliefs in sacrifices and other practices that justified violence in various ways. \"Ācārya Amritacandra's Puruṣārthasiddhyupāya\" discuss these wrong beliefs at length to alert the Jain laity to them. These misconceptions are as follows.\n\nThe belief that animals were created for yajna (sacrifice) and hence it was not considered a slaughter, as it elevated not only the person making the sacrifice, but also the animals was also denounced by the Jains. Amṛtacandra of condemned this practice by stating that it is a misconception to hold that Gods are pleased at sacrifices of living beings and there is no wrong in committing hiṃsā for the sake of religion.\n\nOther wrong beliefs are killing those who are in state of happiness or those who are in meditation under wrong belief that the mental state at the time of death will be perpetuated in future lives. It is also a wrong belief that killing of self and others is justified as the soul that is imprisoned in the body will be permanently released and achieve salvation.\n\nAccording to Jain texts, the fruits of \"himsā\" (violence) depends upon the severity of passions at the time of commencement of such an act. One may be responsible for the sinful act of \"himsā\" without actually causing injury; the other, while having caused injury, may not be responsible for the act. Also, when two persons commit the act of \"himsā\" jointly, its consequences on fruition (of \"karma\"), may be grave for one person and mild for the other.\n\nAccording to Jains, the consequences of karma are inevitable. The consequences may take some time to take effect but the \"karma\" is never fruitless. The latent karma becomes active and bears fruit when the supportive conditions arise. A great part of attracted karma bears its consequences with minor fleeting effects, as generally most of our activities are influenced by mild negative emotions. However, those actions that are influenced by intense negative emotions cause an equally strong karmic attachment which usually does not bear fruit immediately. It takes on an inactive state and waits for the supportive conditions—like proper time, place, and environment—to arise for it to manifest and produce effects. If the supportive conditions do not arise, the respective karmas will manifest at the end of maximum period for which it can remain bound to the soul. These supportive conditions for activation of latent karmas are determined by the nature of karmas, intensity of emotional engagement at the time of binding karmas and our actual relation to time, place, surroundings. There are certain laws of precedence among the karmas, according to which the fruition of some of the karmas may be deferred but not absolutely barred.\n\n, an important tenet of all the religions originating in India, is now considered as an article of faith by the adherents of the Indian religions.\n\nMahatma Gandhi was of the view:\n\nBal Gangadhar Tilak has credited Jainism with the cessation of slaughter of animals in the brahamanical religion. Some scholars have traced the origin of Ahinsa to Jains and their precursor, the sramanas. According to Thomas McEvilley, a noted Indologist, certain seals of Indus Valley civilisation depict a meditative figure surrounded by a multitude of wild animals, providing evidence of proto yoga tradition in India akin to Jainism. This particular image might suggest that all the animals depicted are sacred to this particular practitioner. Consequently, these animals would be protected from harm.\n\nPrime Minister of India Narendra Modi wrote the Jain slogan, \"Ahinsa parmo dharma\", on Facebook's Real Wall at its headquarters, when he visited for a town hall question-and-answer session in September 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2502855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2502855", "title": "Ajahn Sumedho", "text": "Ajahn Sumedho\n\nLuang Por Sumedho or Ajahn Sumedho () (born Robert Kan Jackman, July 27, 1934, Seattle) is one of the senior Western representatives of the Thai forest tradition of Theravada Buddhism. He was abbot of Amaravati Buddhist Monastery, UK, from its consecration in 1984 until his retirement in 2010. \"Luang Por\" means \"Venerable Father\" (หลวงพ่อ), an honorific and term of affection in keeping with Thai custom; \"ajahn\" means \"teacher\". A bhikkhu since 1967, Sumedho is considered a seminal figure in the transmission of the Buddha's teachings to the West.\nAjahn Sumedho was born Robert Kan Jackman in Seattle, Washington in 1934. During the Korean War he served for four years from the age of 18 as a United States navy medic. He then did a BA in Far Eastern studies and graduated in 1963 with an MA in South Asian studies at the University of California, Berkeley. After a year as a Red Cross social worker, Jackman served with the Peace Corps in Borneo from 1964 to 1966 as an English teacher. On break in Singapore, sitting one morning in sidewalk café, he watched a Buddhist monk walk by and thought to himself, \"That looks interesting.\" In 1966 he became a novice or samanera at Wat Sri Saket in Nong Khai, northeast Thailand. He ordained as a bhikkhu (Buddhist monk) in May the following year.\n\nFrom 1967-77 at Wat Nong Pah Pong, he trained under Ajahn Chah. He has come to be regarded as the latter's most influential Western disciple. In 1975 he helped to establish and became the first abbot of the International Forest Monastery, Wat Pa Nanachat in northeast Thailand founded by Ajahn Chah for training his non-Thai students. In 1977, Ajahn Sumedho accompanied Ajahn Chah on a visit to England. After observing a keen interest in Buddhism among Westerners, Ajahn Chah encouraged Ajahn Sumedho to remain in England for the purpose of establishing a branch monastery in the UK. This became Cittaviveka Forest Monastery in West Sussex.\n\nAjahn Sumedho was granted authority to ordain others as monks shortly after he established Cittaviveka Forest Monastery. He then established a ten precept ordination lineage for women, \"Siladhara\".\n\nUntil his retirement Ajahn Sumedho was the abbot of Amaravati Buddhist Monastery near Hemel Hempstead in England, which was established in 1984. Amaravati is part of the network of monasteries and Buddhist centres in the lineage of Ajahn Chah, which now extends across the world, from Thailand, New Zealand and Australia, to Europe, Canada and the United States. Ajahn Sumedho played an instrumental role in building this international monastic community.\n\nAjahn Sumedho's imminent retirement was announced in February 2010, and he retired in November of that year. His successor is the English monk Ajahn Amaro, hitherto co-abbot of the Abhayagiri branch monastery in California's Redwood Valley. Ajahn Sumedho now dwells as a \"free agent\" in Thailand.\n\nAjahn Sumedho is a prominent figure in the Thai Forest Tradition. His teachings are very direct, practical, simple, and down to earth. In his talks and sermons he stresses the quality of immediate intuitive awareness and the integration of this kind of awareness into daily life. Like most teachers in the Forest Tradition, Ajahn Sumedho tends to avoid intellectual abstractions of the Buddhist teachings and focuses almost exclusively on their practical applications, that is, developing wisdom and compassion in daily life. His most consistent advice can be paraphrased as to see things the way that they actually are rather than the way that we want or don't want them to be (\"Right now, it's like this...\"). He is known for his engaging and witty communication style, in which he challenges his listeners to practice and see for themselves. Students have noted that he engages his hearers with an infectious sense of humor, suffused with much loving kindness, often weaving amusing anecdotes from his experiences as a monk into his talks on meditation practice and how to experience life (\"Everything belongs\").\n\nA meditation technique taught and used by Ajahn Sumedho involves resting in what he calls \"the sound of silence\".\nHe talks at length about this technique in one of his books titled \"The Way It Is\".\nAjahn Sumedho said that he was directly influenced by Edward Salim Michael's book, \"The Way of Inner Vigilance\" (republished in 2010 with the new title, \"The Law of Attention, Nada Yoga and the Way of Inner Vigilance\" and for which Ajahn Sumedho wrote a preface).\n\nThe \"Sound of Silence\" is also the title of one of Ajahn Sumedho's books (published by Wisdom Publications in 2007).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852", "title": "Alexander Graham Bell", "text": "Alexander Graham Bell\n\nAlexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 – August 2, 1922) was a Scottish-born scientist, inventor, engineer, and innovator who is credited with inventing and patenting the first practical telephone. He also founded the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T) in 1885.\n\nBell's father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech and both his mother and wife were deaf, profoundly influencing Bell's life's work. His research on hearing and speech further led him to experiment with hearing devices which eventually culminated in Bell being awarded the first U.S. patent for the telephone in 1876. Bell considered his invention an intrusion on his real work as a scientist and refused to have a telephone in his study.\n\nMany other inventions marked Bell's later life, including groundbreaking work in optical telecommunications, hydrofoils, and aeronautics. Although Bell was not one of the 33 founders of the National Geographic Society, he had a strong influence on the magazine while serving as the second president from January 7, 1898, until 1903.\n\nAlexander Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 3, 1847. The family home was at 16 South Charlotte Street, and has a stone inscription marking it as Alexander Graham Bell's birthplace. He had two brothers: Melville James Bell (1845–70) and Edward Charles Bell (1848–67), both of whom would die of tuberculosis. His father was Professor Alexander Melville Bell, a phonetician, and his mother was Eliza Grace (née Symonds). Born as just \"Alexander Bell\", at age 10, he made a plea to his father to have a middle name like his two brothers. For his 11th birthday, his father acquiesced and allowed him to adopt the name \"Graham\", chosen out of respect for Alexander Graham, a Canadian being treated by his father who had become a family friend. To close relatives and friends he remained \"Aleck\".\n\nAs a child, young Bell displayed a natural curiosity about his world, resulting in gathering botanical specimens as well as experimenting even at an early age. His best friend was Ben Herdman, a neighbour whose family operated a flour mill, the scene of many forays. Young Bell asked what needed to be done at the mill. He was told wheat had to be dehusked through a laborious process and at the age of 12, Bell built a homemade device that combined rotating paddles with sets of nail brushes, creating a simple dehusking machine that was put into operation and used steadily for a number of years. In return, Ben's father John Herdman gave both boys the run of a small workshop in which to \"invent\".\n\nFrom his early years, Bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry, and music that was encouraged by his mother. With no formal training, he mastered the piano and became the family's pianist. Despite being normally quiet and introspective, he revelled in mimicry and \"voice tricks\" akin to ventriloquism that continually entertained family guests during their occasional visits. Bell was also deeply affected by his mother's gradual deafness (she began to lose her hearing when he was 12), and learned a manual finger language so he could sit at her side and tap out silently the conversations swirling around the family parlour. He also developed a technique of speaking in clear, modulated tones directly into his mother's forehead wherein she would hear him with reasonable clarity. Bell's preoccupation with his mother's deafness led him to study acoustics.\n\nHis family was long associated with the teaching of elocution: his grandfather, Alexander Bell, in London, his uncle in Dublin, and his father, in Edinburgh, were all elocutionists. His father published a variety of works on the subject, several of which are still well known, especially his \"The Standard Elocutionist\" (1860), which appeared in Edinburgh in 1868. \"The Standard Elocutionist\" appeared in 168 British editions and sold over a quarter of a million copies in the United States alone. In this treatise, his father explains his methods of how to instruct deaf-mutes (as they were then known) to articulate words and read other people's lip movements to decipher meaning. Bell's father taught him and his brothers not only to write Visible Speech but to identify any symbol and its accompanying sound. Bell became so proficient that he became a part of his father's public demonstrations and astounded audiences with his abilities. He could decipher Visible Speech representing virtually every language, including Latin, Scottish Gaelic, and even Sanskrit, accurately reciting written tracts without any prior knowledge of their pronunciation.\n\nAs a young child, Bell, like his brothers, received his early schooling at home from his father. At an early age, he was enrolled at the Royal High School, Edinburgh, Scotland, which he left at the age of 15, having completed only the first four forms. His school record was undistinguished, marked by absenteeism and lacklustre grades. His main interest remained in the sciences, especially biology while he treated other school subjects with indifference, to the dismay of his demanding father. Upon leaving school, Bell travelled to London to live with his grandfather, Alexander Bell. During the year he spent with his grandfather, a love of learning was born, with long hours spent in serious discussion and study. The elder Bell took great efforts to have his young pupil learn to speak clearly and with conviction, the attributes that his pupil would need to become a teacher himself. At the age of 16, Bell secured a position as a \"pupil-teacher\" of elocution and music, in Weston House Academy at Elgin, Moray, Scotland. Although he was enrolled as a student in Latin and Greek, he instructed classes himself in return for board and £10 per session. The following year, he attended the University of Edinburgh; joining his older brother Melville who had enrolled there the previous year. In 1868, not long before he departed for Canada with his family, Bell completed his matriculation exams and was accepted for admission to University College London.\n\nHis father encouraged Bell's interest in speech and, in 1863, took his sons to see a unique automaton developed by Sir Charles Wheatstone based on the earlier work of Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen. The rudimentary \"mechanical man\" simulated a human voice. Bell was fascinated by the machine and after he obtained a copy of von Kempelen's book, published in German, and had laboriously translated it, he and his older brother Melville built their own automaton head. Their father, highly interested in their project, offered to pay for any supplies and spurred the boys on with the enticement of a \"big prize\" if they were successful. While his brother constructed the throat and larynx, Bell tackled the more difficult task of recreating a realistic skull. His efforts resulted in a remarkably lifelike head that could \"speak\", albeit only a few words. The boys would carefully adjust the \"lips\" and when a bellows forced air through the windpipe, a very recognizable \"Mama\" ensued, to the delight of neighbours who came to see the Bell invention.\n\nIntrigued by the results of the automaton, Bell continued to experiment with a live subject, the family's Skye Terrier, \"Trouve\". After he taught it to growl continuously, Bell would reach into its mouth and manipulate the dog's lips and vocal cords to produce a crude-sounding \"Ow ah oo ga ma ma\". With little convincing, visitors believed his dog could articulate \"How are you, grandma?\" Indicative of his playful nature, his experiments convinced onlookers that they saw a \"talking dog\". These initial forays into experimentation with sound led Bell to undertake his first serious work on the transmission of sound, using tuning forks to explore resonance.\n\nAt age 19, Bell wrote a report on his work and sent it to philologist Alexander Ellis, a colleague of his father (who would later be portrayed as Professor Henry Higgins in \"Pygmalion\"). Ellis immediately wrote back indicating that the experiments were similar to existing work in Germany, and also lent Bell a copy of Hermann von Helmholtz's work, \"The Sensations of Tone as a Physiological Basis for the Theory of Music\".\n\nDismayed to find that groundbreaking work had already been undertaken by Helmholtz who had conveyed vowel sounds by means of a similar tuning fork \"contraption\", Bell pored over the German scientist's book. Working from his own erroneous mistranslation of a French edition, Bell fortuitously then made a deduction that would be the underpinning of all his future work on transmitting sound, reporting: \"Without knowing much about the subject, it seemed to me that if vowel sounds could be produced by electrical means, so could consonants, so could articulate speech.\" He also later remarked: \"I thought that Helmholtz had done it ... and that my failure was due only to my ignorance of electricity. It was a valuable blunder ... If I had been able to read German in those days, I might never have commenced my experiments!\"\n\nIn 1865, when the Bell family moved to London, Bell returned to Weston House as an assistant master and, in his spare hours, continued experiments on sound using a minimum of laboratory equipment. Bell concentrated on experimenting with electricity to convey sound and later installed a telegraph wire from his room in Somerset College to that of a friend. Throughout late 1867, his health faltered mainly through exhaustion. His younger brother, Edward \"Ted,\" was similarly bed-ridden, suffering from tuberculosis. While Bell recovered (by then referring to himself in correspondence as \"A. G. Bell\") and served the next year as an instructor at Somerset College, Bath, England, his brother's condition deteriorated. Edward would never recover. Upon his brother's death, Bell returned home in 1867. His older brother Melville had married and moved out. With aspirations to obtain a degree at University College London, Bell considered his next years as preparation for the degree examinations, devoting his spare time at his family's residence to studying.\n\nHelping his father in Visible Speech demonstrations and lectures brought Bell to Susanna E. Hull's private school for the deaf in South Kensington, London. His first two pupils were deaf-mute girls who made remarkable progress under his tutelage. While his older brother seemed to achieve success on many fronts including opening his own elocution school, applying for a patent on an invention, and starting a family, Bell continued as a teacher. However, in May 1870, Melville died from complications due to tuberculosis, causing a family crisis. His father had also suffered a debilitating illness earlier in life and had been restored to health by a convalescence in Newfoundland. Bell's parents embarked upon a long-planned move when they realized that their remaining son was also sickly. Acting decisively, Alexander Melville Bell asked Bell to arrange for the sale of all the family property, conclude all of his brother's affairs (Bell took over his last student, curing a pronounced lisp), and join his father and mother in setting out for the \"New World\". Reluctantly, Bell also had to conclude a relationship with Marie Eccleston, who, as he had surmised, was not prepared to leave England with him.\n\nIn 1870, aged 23, Bell, together with Bell's brother's widow, Caroline Margaret Ottaway, and his parents travelled on the SS \"Nestorian\" to Canada. After landing at Quebec City, the Bells transferred to another steamer to Montreal and then boarded a train to Paris, Ontario, to stay with the Reverend Thomas Henderson, a family friend. After a brief stay with the Hendersons, the Bell family purchased a farm of at Tutelo Heights (now called Tutela Heights), near Brantford, Ontario. The property consisted of an orchard, large farmhouse, stable, pigsty, hen-house, and a carriage house, which bordered the Grand River.\n\nAt the homestead, Bell set up his own workshop in the converted carriage house near to what he called his \"dreaming place\", a large hollow nestled in trees at the back of the property above the river. Despite his frail condition upon arriving in Canada, Bell found the climate and environs to his liking, and rapidly improved. He continued his interest in the study of the human voice and when he discovered the Six Nations Reserve across the river at Onondaga, he learned the Mohawk language and translated its unwritten vocabulary into Visible Speech symbols. For his work, Bell was awarded the title of Honorary Chief and participated in a ceremony where he donned a Mohawk headdress and danced traditional dances.\n\nAfter setting up his workshop, Bell continued experiments based on Helmholtz's work with electricity and sound. He also modified a melodeon (a type of pump organ) so that it could transmit its music electrically over a distance. Once the family was settled in, both Bell and his father made plans to establish a teaching practice and in 1871, he accompanied his father to Montreal, where Melville was offered a position to teach his System of Visible Speech.\n\nBell's father was invited by Sarah Fuller, principal of the Boston School for Deaf Mutes (which continues today as the public Horace Mann School for the Deaf), in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, to introduce the Visible Speech System by providing training for Fuller's instructors, but he declined the post in favour of his son. Travelling to Boston in April 1871, Bell proved successful in training the school's instructors. He was subsequently asked to repeat the programme at the American Asylum for Deaf-mutes in Hartford, Connecticut, and the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts.\n\nReturning home to Brantford after six months abroad, Bell continued his experiments with his \"harmonic telegraph\". The basic concept behind his device was that messages could be sent through a single wire if each message was transmitted at a different pitch, but work on both the transmitter and receiver was needed.\n\nUnsure of his future, he first contemplated returning to London to complete his studies, but decided to return to Boston as a teacher. His father helped him set up his private practice by contacting Gardiner Greene Hubbard, the president of the Clarke School for the Deaf for a recommendation. Teaching his father's system, in October 1872, Alexander Bell opened his \"School of Vocal Physiology and Mechanics of Speech\" in Boston, which attracted a large number of deaf pupils, with his first class numbering 30 students. While he was working as a private tutor, one of his pupils was Helen Keller, who came to him as a young child unable to see, hear, or speak. She was later to say that Bell dedicated his life to the penetration of that \"inhuman silence which separates and estranges\". In 1893, Keller performed the sod-breaking ceremony for the construction of Bell's new Volta Bureau, dedicated to \"the increase and diffusion of knowledge relating to the deaf\".\n\nSeveral influential people of the time, including Bell, viewed deafness as something that should be eradicated, and also believed that with resources and effort, they could teach the deaf to speak and avoid the use of sign language, thus enabling their integration within the wider society from which many were often being excluded. Owing to his efforts to suppress the teaching of sign language, Bell is often viewed negatively by those embracing Deaf culture.\n\nIn the following year, Bell became professor of Vocal Physiology and Elocution at the Boston University School of Oratory. During this period, he alternated between Boston and Brantford, spending summers in his Canadian home. At Boston University, Bell was \"swept up\" by the excitement engendered by the many scientists and inventors residing in the city. He continued his research in sound and endeavored to find a way to transmit musical notes and articulate speech, but although absorbed by his experiments, he found it difficult to devote enough time to experimentation. While days and evenings were occupied by his teaching and private classes, Bell began to stay awake late into the night, running experiment after experiment in rented facilities at his boarding house. Keeping \"night owl\" hours, he worried that his work would be discovered and took great pains to lock up his notebooks and laboratory equipment. Bell had a specially made table where he could place his notes and equipment inside a locking cover. Worse still, his health deteriorated as he suffered severe headaches. Returning to Boston in fall 1873, Bell made a fateful decision to concentrate on his experiments in sound.\n\nDeciding to give up his lucrative private Boston practice, Bell retained only two students, six-year-old \"Georgie\" Sanders, deaf from birth, and 15-year-old Mabel Hubbard. Each pupil would play an important role in the next developments. George's father, Thomas Sanders, a wealthy businessman, offered Bell a place to stay in nearby Salem with Georgie's grandmother, complete with a room to \"experiment\". Although the offer was made by George's mother and followed the year-long arrangement in 1872 where her son and his nurse had moved to quarters next to Bell's boarding house, it was clear that Mr. Sanders was backing the proposal. The arrangement was for teacher and student to continue their work together, with free room and board thrown in. Mabel was a bright, attractive girl who was ten years Bell's junior but became the object of his affection. Having lost her hearing after a near-fatal bout of scarlet fever close to her fifth birthday, she had learned to read lips but her father, Gardiner Greene Hubbard, Bell's benefactor and personal friend, wanted her to work directly with her teacher.\n\nBy 1874, Bell's initial work on the harmonic telegraph had entered a formative stage, with progress made both at his new Boston \"laboratory\" (a rented facility) and at his family home in Canada a big success. While working that summer in Brantford, Bell experimented with a \"phonautograph\", a pen-like machine that could draw shapes of sound waves on smoked glass by tracing their vibrations. Bell thought it might be possible to generate undulating electrical currents that corresponded to sound waves. Bell also thought that multiple metal reeds tuned to different frequencies like a harp would be able to convert the undulating currents back into sound. But he had no working model to demonstrate the feasibility of these ideas.\n\nIn 1874, telegraph message traffic was rapidly expanding and in the words of Western Union President William Orton, had become \"the nervous system of commerce\". Antonio Meucci sent a telephone model and technical details to the Western Union telegraph company but failed to win a meeting with executives. When he asked for his materials to be returned, in 1874, he was told they had been lost. Two years later Bell, who shared a laboratory with Meucci, filed a patent for a telephone, became a celebrity and made a lucrative deal with Western Union. Meucci sued and was nearing victory - the supreme court agreed to hear the case and fraud charges were initiated against Bell - when the Florentine died in 1889. The legal action died with him. Orton had contracted with inventors Thomas Edison and Elisha Gray to find a way to send multiple telegraph messages on each telegraph line to avoid the great cost of constructing new lines. When Bell mentioned to Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders that he was working on a method of sending multiple tones on a telegraph wire using a multi-reed device, the two wealthy patrons began to financially support Bell's experiments. Patent matters would be handled by Hubbard's patent attorney, Anthony Pollok.\n\nIn March 1875, Bell and Pollok visited the scientist Joseph Henry, who was then director of the Smithsonian Institution, and asked Henry's advice on the electrical multi-reed apparatus that Bell hoped would transmit the human voice by telegraph. Henry replied that Bell had \"the germ of a great invention\". When Bell said that he did not have the necessary knowledge, Henry replied, \"Get it!\" That declaration greatly encouraged Bell to keep trying, even though he did not have the equipment needed to continue his experiments, nor the ability to create a working model of his ideas. However, a chance meeting in 1874 between Bell and Thomas A. Watson, an experienced electrical designer and mechanic at the electrical machine shop of Charles Williams, changed all that.\n\nWith financial support from Sanders and Hubbard, Bell hired Thomas Watson as his assistant, and the two of them experimented with acoustic telegraphy. On June 2, 1875, Watson accidentally plucked one of the reeds and Bell, at the receiving end of the wire, heard the overtones of the reed; overtones that would be necessary for transmitting speech. That demonstrated to Bell that only one reed or armature was necessary, not multiple reeds. This led to the \"gallows\" sound-powered telephone, which could transmit indistinct, voice-like sounds, but not clear speech.\n\nIn 1875, Bell developed an acoustic telegraph and drew up a patent application for it. Since he had agreed to share U.S. profits with his investors Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders, Bell requested that an associate in Ontario, George Brown, attempt to patent it in Britain, instructing his lawyers to apply for a patent in the U.S. only after they received word from Britain (Britain would issue patents only for discoveries not previously patented elsewhere).\n\nMeanwhile, Elisha Gray was also experimenting with acoustic telegraphy and thought of a way to transmit speech using a water transmitter. On February 14, 1876, Gray filed a caveat with the U.S. Patent Office for a telephone design that used a water transmitter. That same morning, Bell's lawyer filed Bell's application with the patent office. There is considerable debate about who arrived first and Gray later challenged the primacy of Bell's patent. Bell was in Boston on February 14 and did not arrive in Washington until February 26.\n\nBell's patent 174,465, was issued to Bell on March 7, 1876, by the U.S. Patent Office. Bell's patent covered \"the method of, and apparatus for, transmitting vocal or other sounds telegraphically ... by causing electrical undulations, similar in form to the vibrations of the air accompanying the said vocal or other sound\" Bell returned to Boston the same day and the next day resumed work, drawing in his notebook a diagram similar to that in Gray's patent caveat.\n\nOn March 10, 1876, three days after his patent was issued, Bell succeeded in getting his telephone to work, using a liquid transmitter similar to Gray's design. Vibration of the diaphragm caused a needle to vibrate in the water, varying the electrical resistance in the circuit. When Bell spoke the sentence \"Mr. Watson—Come here—I want to see you\" into the liquid transmitter, Watson, listening at the receiving end in an adjoining room, heard the words clearly.\n\nAlthough Bell was, and still is, accused of stealing the telephone from Gray, Bell used Gray's water transmitter design only after Bell's patent had been granted, and only as a proof of concept scientific experiment, to prove to his own satisfaction that intelligible \"articulate speech\" (Bell's words) could be electrically transmitted. After March 1876, Bell focused on improving the electromagnetic telephone and never used Gray's liquid transmitter in public demonstrations or commercial use.\n\nThe question of priority for the variable resistance feature of the telephone was raised by the examiner before he approved Bell's patent application. He told Bell that his claim for the variable resistance feature was also described in Gray's caveat. Bell pointed to a variable resistance device in Bell's previous application in which Bell described a cup of mercury, not water. Bell had filed the mercury application at the patent office a year earlier on February 25, 1875, long before Elisha Gray described the water device. In addition, Gray abandoned his caveat, and because he did not contest Bell's priority, the examiner approved Bell's patent on March 3, 1876. Gray had reinvented the variable resistance telephone, but Bell was the first to write down the idea and the first to test it in a telephone.\n\nThe patent examiner, Zenas Fisk Wilber, later stated in an affidavit that he was an alcoholic who was much in debt to Bell's lawyer, Marcellus Bailey, with whom he had served in the Civil War. He claimed he showed Gray's patent caveat to Bailey. Wilber also claimed (after Bell arrived in Washington D.C. from Boston) that he showed Gray's caveat to Bell and that Bell paid him $100. Bell claimed they discussed the patent only in general terms, although in a letter to Gray, Bell admitted that he learned some of the technical details. Bell denied in an affidavit that he ever gave Wilber any money.\n\nContinuing his experiments in Brantford, Bell brought home a working model of his telephone. On August 3, 1876, from the telegraph office in Mount Pleasant five miles (eight km) away from Brantford, Bell sent a tentative telegram indicating that he was ready. With curious onlookers packed into the office as witnesses, faint voices were heard replying. The following night, he amazed guests as well as his family when a message was received at the Bell home from Brantford, four miles (six km) distant, along an improvised wire strung up along telegraph lines and fences, and laid through a tunnel. This time, guests at the household distinctly heard people in Brantford reading and singing. These experiments clearly proved that the telephone could work over long distances.\n\nBell and his partners, Hubbard and Sanders, offered to sell the patent outright to Western Union for $100,000. The president of Western Union balked, countering that the telephone was nothing but a toy. Two years later, he told colleagues that if he could get the patent for $25 million he would consider it a bargain. By then, the Bell company no longer wanted to sell the patent. Bell's investors would become millionaires while he fared well from residuals and at one point had assets of nearly one million dollars.\n\nBell began a series of public demonstrations and lectures to introduce the new invention to the scientific community as well as the general public. A short time later, his demonstration of an early telephone prototype at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia brought the telephone to international attention. Influential visitors to the exhibition included Emperor Pedro II of Brazil. Later, Bell had the opportunity to demonstrate the invention personally to Sir William Thomson (later, Lord Kelvin), a renowned Scottish scientist, as well as to Queen Victoria, who had requested a private audience at Osborne House, her Isle of Wight home. She called the demonstration \"most extraordinary\". The enthusiasm surrounding Bell's public displays laid the groundwork for universal acceptance of the revolutionary device.\n\nThe Bell Telephone Company was created in 1877, and by 1886, more than 150,000 people in the U.S. owned telephones. Bell Company engineers made numerous other improvements to the telephone, which emerged as one of the most successful products ever. In 1879, the Bell company acquired Edison's patents for the carbon microphone from Western Union. This made the telephone practical for longer distances, and it was no longer necessary to shout to be heard at the receiving telephone.\n\nEmperor Pedro II of Brazil was the first person to buy stock in Bell's company, the Bell Telephone Company. One of the first telephones in a private residence was installed in his palace in Petrópolis, his summer retreat forty miles from Rio de Janeiro.\n\nIn January 1915, Bell made the first ceremonial transcontinental telephone call. Calling from the AT&T head office at 15 Dey Street in New York City, Bell was heard by Thomas Watson at 333 Grant Avenue in San Francisco. The \"New York Times\" reported:\n\nAs is sometimes common in scientific discoveries, simultaneous developments can occur, as evidenced by a number of inventors who were at work on the telephone. Over a period of 18 years, the Bell Telephone Company faced 587 court challenges to its patents, including five that went to the U.S. Supreme Court, but none was successful in establishing priority over the original Bell patent and the Bell Telephone Company never lost a case that had proceeded to a final trial stage. Bell's laboratory notes and family letters were the key to establishing a long lineage to his experiments. The Bell company lawyers successfully fought off myriad lawsuits generated initially around the challenges by Elisha Gray and Amos Dolbear. In personal correspondence to Bell, both Gray and Dolbear had acknowledged his prior work, which considerably weakened their later claims.\n\nOn January 13, 1887, the U.S. Government moved to annul the patent issued to Bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation. After a series of decisions and reversals, the Bell company won a decision in the Supreme Court, though a couple of the original claims from the lower court cases were left undecided. By the time that the trial wound its way through nine years of legal battles, the U.S. prosecuting attorney had died and the two Bell patents (No. 174,465 dated March 7, 1876, and No. 186,787 dated January 30, 1877) were no longer in effect, although the presiding judges agreed to continue the proceedings due to the case's importance as a precedent. With a change in administration and charges of conflict of interest (on both sides) arising from the original trial, the US Attorney General dropped the lawsuit on November 30, 1897, leaving several issues undecided on the merits.\n\nDuring a deposition filed for the 1887 trial, Italian inventor Antonio Meucci also claimed to have created the first working model of a telephone in Italy in 1834. In 1886, in the first of three cases in which he was involved, Meucci took the stand as a witness in the hopes of establishing his invention's priority. Meucci's testimony in this case was disputed due to a lack of material evidence for his inventions, as his working models were purportedly lost at the laboratory of American District Telegraph (ADT) of New York, which was later incorporated as a subsidiary of Western Union in 1901. Meucci's work, like many other inventors of the period, was based on earlier acoustic principles and despite evidence of earlier experiments, the final case involving Meucci was eventually dropped upon Meucci's death. However, due to the efforts of Congressman Vito Fossella, the U.S. House of Representatives on June 11, 2002, stated that Meucci's \"work in the invention of the telephone should be acknowledged\". This did not put an end to the still-contentious issue. Some modern scholars do not agree with the claims that Bell's work on the telephone was influenced by Meucci's inventions.\n\nThe value of the Bell patent was acknowledged throughout the world, and patent applications were made in most major countries, but when Bell delayed the German patent application, the electrical firm of Siemens & Halske (S&H) set up a rival manufacturer of Bell telephones under their own patent. The Siemens company produced near-identical copies of the Bell telephone without having to pay royalties. The establishment of the International Bell Telephone Company in Brussels, Belgium in 1880, as well as a series of agreements in other countries eventually consolidated a global telephone operation. The strain put on Bell by his constant appearances in court, necessitated by the legal battles, eventually resulted in his resignation from the company.\n\nOn July 11, 1877, a few days after the Bell Telephone Company was established, Bell married Mabel Hubbard (1857–1923) at the Hubbard estate in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His wedding present to his bride was to turn over 1,487 of his 1,497 shares in the newly formed Bell Telephone Company. Shortly thereafter, the newlyweds embarked on a year-long honeymoon in Europe. During that excursion, Bell took a handmade model of his telephone with him, making it a \"working holiday\". The courtship had begun years earlier; however, Bell waited until he was more financially secure before marrying. Although the telephone appeared to be an \"instant\" success, it was not initially a profitable venture and Bell's main sources of income were from lectures until after 1897. One unusual request exacted by his fiancée was that he use \"Alec\" rather than the family's earlier familiar name of \"Aleck\". From 1876, he would sign his name \"Alec Bell\". They had four children:\nThe Bell family home was in Cambridge, Massachusetts, until 1880 when Bell's father-in-law bought a house in Washington, D.C.; in 1882 he bought a home in the same city for Bell's family, so they could be with him while he attended to the numerous court cases involving patent disputes.\n\nBell was a British subject throughout his early life in Scotland and later in Canada until 1882 when he became a naturalized citizen of the United States. In 1915, he characterized his status as: \"I am not one of those hyphenated Americans who claim allegiance to two countries.\" Despite this declaration, Bell has been proudly claimed as a \"native son\" by all three countries he resided in: the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom.\n\nBy 1885, a new summer retreat was contemplated. That summer, the Bells had a vacation on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, spending time at the small village of Baddeck. Returning in 1886, Bell started building an estate on a point across from Baddeck, overlooking Bras d'Or Lake. By 1889, a large house, christened \"The Lodge\" was completed and two years later, a larger complex of buildings, including a new laboratory, were begun that the Bells would name Beinn Bhreagh (Gaelic: \"beautiful mountain\") after Bell's ancestral Scottish highlands. Bell also built the Bell Boatyard on the estate, employing up to 40 people building experimental craft as well as wartime lifeboats and workboats for the Royal Canadian Navy and pleasure craft for the Bell family. He was an enthusiastic boater, and Bell and his family sailed or rowed a long series of vessels on Bras d'Or Lake, ordering additional vessels from the H.W. Embree and Sons boatyard in Port Hawkesbury, Nova Scotia. In his final, and some of his most productive years, Bell split his residency between Washington, D.C., where he and his family initially resided for most of the year, and Beinn Bhreagh, where they spent increasing amounts of time.\n\nUntil the end of his life, Bell and his family would alternate between the two homes, but \"Beinn Bhreagh\" would, over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as Bell became so absorbed in his experiments that his annual stays lengthened. Both Mabel and Bell became immersed in the Baddeck community and were accepted by the villagers as \"their own\". The Bells were still in residence at \"Beinn Bhreagh\" when the Halifax Explosion occurred on December 6, 1917. Mabel and Bell mobilized the community to help victims in Halifax.\n\nAlthough Alexander Graham Bell is most often associated with the invention of the telephone, his interests were extremely varied. According to one of his biographers, Charlotte Gray, Bell's work ranged \"unfettered across the scientific landscape\" and he often went to bed voraciously reading the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", scouring it for new areas of interest. The range of Bell's inventive genius is represented only in part by the 18 patents granted in his name alone and the 12 he shared with his collaborators. These included 14 for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicles, four for \"hydroairplanes\", and two for selenium cells. Bell's inventions spanned a wide range of interests and included a metal jacket to assist in breathing, the audiometer to detect minor hearing problems, a device to locate icebergs, investigations on how to separate salt from seawater, and work on finding alternative fuels.\n\nBell worked extensively in medical research and invented techniques for teaching speech to the deaf. During his Volta Laboratory period, Bell and his associates considered impressing a magnetic field on a record as a means of reproducing sound. Although the trio briefly experimented with the concept, they could not develop a workable prototype. They abandoned the idea, never realizing they had glimpsed a basic principle which would one day find its application in the tape recorder, the hard disc and floppy disc drive, and other magnetic media.\n\nBell's own home used a primitive form of air conditioning, in which fans blew currents of air across great blocks of ice. He also anticipated modern concerns with fuel shortages and industrial pollution. Methane gas, he reasoned, could be produced from the waste of farms and factories. At his Canadian estate in Nova Scotia, he experimented with composting toilets and devices to capture water from the atmosphere. In a magazine interview published shortly before his death, he reflected on the possibility of using solar panels to heat houses.\n\nBell and his assistant Charles Sumner Tainter jointly invented a wireless telephone, named a photophone, which allowed for the transmission of both sounds and normal human conversations on a beam of light. Both men later became full associates in the Volta Laboratory Association.\n\nOn June 21, 1880, Bell's assistant transmitted a wireless voice telephone message a considerable distance, from the roof of the Franklin School in Washington, D.C., to Bell at the window of his laboratory, some away, 19 years before the first voice radio transmissions.\n\nBell believed the photophone's principles were his life's \"greatest achievement\", telling a reporter shortly before his death that the photophone was \"the greatest invention [I have] ever made, greater than the telephone\". The photophone was a precursor to the fiber-optic communication systems which achieved popular worldwide usage in the 1980s. Its master patent was issued in December 1880, many decades before the photophone's principles came into popular use.\n\nBell is also credited with developing one of the early versions of a metal detector in 1881. The device was quickly put together in an attempt to find the bullet in the body of U.S. President James Garfield. According to some accounts, the metal detector worked flawlessly in tests but did not find the assassin's bullet partly because the metal bed frame on which the President was lying disturbed the instrument, resulting in static. The president's surgeons, who were skeptical of the device, ignored Bell's requests to move the president to a bed not fitted with metal springs. Alternatively, although Bell had detected a slight sound on his first test, the bullet may have been lodged too deeply to be detected by the crude apparatus.\n\nBell's own detailed account, presented to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1882, differs in several particulars from most of the many and varied versions now in circulation, by concluding that extraneous metal was not to blame for failure to locate the bullet. Perplexed by the peculiar results he had obtained during an examination of Garfield, Bell \"proceeded to the Executive Mansion the next morning ... to ascertain from the surgeons whether they were perfectly sure that all metal had been removed from the neighborhood of the bed. It was then recollected that underneath the horse-hair mattress on which the President lay was another mattress composed of steel wires. Upon obtaining a duplicate, the mattress was found to consist of a sort of net of woven steel wires, with large meshes. The extent of the [area that produced a response from the detector] having been so small, as compared with the area of the bed, it seemed reasonable to conclude that the steel mattress had produced no detrimental effect.\" In a footnote, Bell adds, \"The death of President Garfield and the subsequent \"post-mortem\" examination, however, proved that the bullet was at too great a distance from the surface to have affected our apparatus.\"\n\nThe March 1906 \"Scientific American\" article by American pioneer William E. Meacham explained the basic principle of hydrofoils and hydroplanes. Bell considered the invention of the hydroplane as a very significant achievement. Based on information gained from that article, he began to sketch concepts of what is now called a hydrofoil boat. Bell and assistant Frederick W. \"Casey\" Baldwin began hydrofoil experimentation in the summer of 1908 as a possible aid to airplane takeoff from water. Baldwin studied the work of the Italian inventor Enrico Forlanini and began testing models. This led him and Bell to the development of practical hydrofoil watercraft.\n\nDuring his world tour of 1910–11, Bell and Baldwin met with Forlanini in France. They had rides in the Forlanini hydrofoil boat over Lake Maggiore. Baldwin described it as being as smooth as flying. On returning to Baddeck, a number of initial concepts were built as experimental models, including the \"Dhonnas Beag\" (Scottish Gaelic for \"little devil\"), the first self-propelled Bell-Baldwin hydrofoil. The experimental boats were essentially proof-of-concept prototypes that culminated in the more substantial HD-4, powered by Renault engines. A top speed of was achieved, with the hydrofoil exhibiting rapid acceleration, good stability, and steering, along with the ability to take waves without difficulty. In 1913, Dr. Bell hired Walter Pinaud, a Sydney yacht designer and builder as well as the proprietor of Pinaud's Yacht Yard in Westmount, Nova Scotia to work on the pontoons of the HD-4. Pinaud soon took over the boatyard at Bell Laboratories on Beinn Bhreagh, Bell's estate near Baddeck, Nova Scotia. Pinaud's experience in boat-building enabled him to make useful design changes to the HD-4. After the First World War, work began again on the HD-4. Bell's report to the U.S. Navy permitted him to obtain two engines in July 1919. On September 9, 1919, the HD-4 set a world marine speed record of , a record which stood for ten years.\n\nIn 1891, Bell had begun experiments to develop motor-powered heavier-than-air aircraft. The AEA was first formed as Bell shared the vision to fly with his wife, who advised him to seek \"young\" help as Bell was at the age of 60.\n\nIn 1898, Bell experimented with tetrahedral box kites and wings constructed of multiple compound tetrahedral kites covered in maroon silk. The tetrahedral wings were named \"Cygnet\" I, II, and III, and were flown both unmanned and manned (\"Cygnet I\" crashed during a flight carrying Selfridge) in the period from 1907–1912. Some of Bell's kites are on display at the Alexander Graham Bell National Historic Site.\n\nBell was a supporter of aerospace engineering research through the Aerial Experiment Association (AEA), officially formed at Baddeck, Nova Scotia, in October 1907 at the suggestion of his wife Mabel and with her financial support after the sale of some of her real estate. The AEA was headed by Bell and the founding members were four young men: American Glenn H. Curtiss, a motorcycle manufacturer at the time and who held the title \"world's fastest man\", having ridden his self-constructed motor bicycle around in the shortest time, and who was later awarded the Scientific American Trophy for the first official one-kilometre flight in the Western hemisphere, and who later became a world-renowned airplane manufacturer; Lieutenant Thomas Selfridge, an official observer from the U.S. Federal government and one of the few people in the army who believed that aviation was the future; Frederick W. Baldwin, the first Canadian and first British subject to pilot a public flight in Hammondsport, New York; and J. A .D. McCurdy–Baldwin and McCurdy being new engineering graduates from the University of Toronto.\n\nThe AEA's work progressed to heavier-than-air machines, applying their knowledge of kites to gliders. Moving to Hammondsport, the group then designed and built the \"Red Wing\", framed in bamboo and covered in red silk and powered by a small air-cooled engine. On March 12, 1908, over Keuka Lake, the biplane lifted off on the first public flight in North America. The innovations that were incorporated into this design included a cockpit enclosure and tail rudder (later variations on the original design would add ailerons as a means of control). One of the AEA's inventions, a practical wingtip form of the aileron, was to become a standard component on all aircraft. The \"White Wing\" and \"June Bug\" were to follow and by the end of 1908, over 150 flights without mishap had been accomplished. However, the AEA had depleted its initial reserves and only a $15,000 grant from Mrs. Bell allowed it to continue with experiments. Lt. Selfridge had also become the first person killed in a powered heavier-than-air flight in a crash of the Wright Flyer at Fort Myer, Virginia, on September 17, 1908.\n\nTheir final aircraft design, the \"Silver Dart\", embodied all of the advancements found in the earlier machines. On February 23, 1909, Bell was present as the \"Silver Dart\" flown by J. A. D. McCurdy from the frozen ice of Bras d'Or made the first aircraft flight in Canada. Bell had worried that the flight was too dangerous and had arranged for a doctor to be on hand. With the successful flight, the AEA disbanded and the \"Silver Dart\" would revert to Baldwin and McCurdy, who began the Canadian Aerodrome Company and would later demonstrate the aircraft to the Canadian Army.\n\nBell was connected with the eugenics movement in the United States. In his lecture \"Memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the human race\" presented to the National Academy of Sciences on November 13, 1883, he noted that congenitally deaf parents were more likely to produce deaf children and tentatively suggested that couples where both parties were deaf should not marry. However, it was his hobby of livestock breeding which led to his appointment to biologist David Starr Jordan's Committee on Eugenics, under the auspices of the American Breeders' Association. The committee unequivocally extended the principle to humans. From 1912 until 1918, he was the chairman of the board of scientific advisers to the Eugenics Record Office associated with Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York, and regularly attended meetings. In 1921, he was the honorary president of the Second International Congress of Eugenics held under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Organizations such as these advocated passing laws (with success in some states) that established the compulsory sterilization of people deemed to be, as Bell called them, a \"defective variety of the human race\". By the late 1930s, about half the states in the U.S. had eugenics laws, and California's compulsory sterilization law was used as a model for that of Nazi Germany.\n\nHonors and tributes flowed to Bell in increasing numbers as his invention became ubiquitous and his personal fame grew. Bell received numerous honorary degrees from colleges and universities to the point that the requests almost became burdensome. During his life, he also received dozens of major awards, medals, and other tributes. These included statuary monuments to both him and the new form of communication his telephone created, including the Bell Telephone Memorial erected in his honor in \"Alexander Graham Bell Gardens\" in Brantford, Ontario, in 1917.\n\nA large number of Bell's writings, personal correspondence, notebooks, papers, and other documents reside in both the United States Library of Congress Manuscript Division (as the \"Alexander Graham Bell Family Papers\"), and at the Alexander Graham Bell Institute, Cape Breton University, Nova Scotia; major portions of which are available for online viewing.\n\nA number of historic sites and other marks commemorate Bell in North America and Europe, including the first telephone companies in the United States and Canada. Among the major sites are:\n\nIn 1880, Bell received the Volta Prize with a purse of 50,000 French francs (approximately US$ in today's dollars) for the invention of the telephone from the French government. Among the luminaries who judged were Victor Hugo and Alexandre Dumas, \"fils\". The Volta Prize was conceived by Napoleon III in 1852, and named in honor of Alessandro Volta, with Bell becoming the second recipient of the grand prize in its history. Since Bell was becoming increasingly affluent, he used his prize money to create endowment funds (the 'Volta Fund') and institutions in and around the United States capital of Washington, D.C.. These included the prestigious\" 'Volta Laboratory Association' \"(1880), also known as the\" Volta Laboratory \"and as the\" 'Alexander Graham Bell Laboratory', \"and which eventually led to the Volta Bureau (1887) as a center for studies on deafness which is still in operation in Georgetown, Washington, D.C. The Volta Laboratory became an experimental facility devoted to scientific discovery, and the very next year it improved Edison's phonograph by substituting wax for tinfoil as the recording medium and incising the recording rather than indenting it, key upgrades that Edison himself later adopted. The laboratory was also the site where he and his associate invented his \"proudest achievement\", \"the photophone\", the \"optical telephone\" which presaged fibre optical telecommunications while the Volta Bureau would later evolve into the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (the AG Bell), a leading center for the research and pedagogy of deafness.\n\nIn partnership with Gardiner Greene Hubbard, Bell helped establish the publication \"Science\" during the early 1880s. In 1898, Bell was elected as the second president of the National Geographic Society, serving until 1903, and was primarily responsible for the extensive use of illustrations, including photography, in the magazine. He also served for many years as a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution (1898–1922). The French government conferred on him the decoration of the Légion d'honneur (Legion of Honor); the Royal Society of Arts in London awarded him the Albert Medal in 1902; the University of Würzburg, Bavaria, granted him a PhD, and he was awarded the Franklin Institute's Elliott Cresson Medal in 1912. He was one of the founders of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1884 and served as its president from 1891–92. Bell was later awarded the AIEE's Edison Medal in 1914 \"For meritorious achievement in the invention of the telephone\".\n\nThe \"bel\" (B) and the smaller \"decibel\" (dB) are units of measurement of power level invented by Bell Labs and named after him. Since 1976, the IEEE's Alexander Graham Bell Medal has been awarded to honor outstanding contributions in the field of telecommunications.\nIn 1936, the US Patent Office declared Bell first on its list of the country's greatest inventors, leading to the US Post Office issuing a commemorative stamp honoring Bell in 1940 as part of its 'Famous Americans Series'. The First Day of Issue ceremony was held on October 28 in Boston, Massachusetts, the city where Bell spent considerable time on research and working with the deaf. The Bell stamp became very popular and sold out in little time. The stamp became, and remains to this day, the most valuable one of the series.\n\nThe 150th anniversary of Bell's birth in 1997 was marked by a special issue of commemorative £1 banknotes from the Royal Bank of Scotland. The illustrations on the reverse of the note include Bell's face in profile, his signature, and objects from Bell's life and career: users of the telephone over the ages; an audio wave signal; a diagram of a telephone receiver; geometric shapes from engineering structures; representations of sign language and the phonetic alphabet; the geese which helped him to understand flight; and the sheep which he studied to understand genetics. Additionally, the Government of Canada honored Bell in 1997 with a C$100 gold coin, in tribute also to the 150th anniversary of his birth, and with a silver dollar coin in 2009 in honor of the 100th anniversary of flight in Canada. That first flight was made by an airplane designed under Dr. Bell's tutelage, named the Silver Dart. Bell's image, and also those of his many inventions have graced paper money, coinage, and postal stamps in numerous countries worldwide for many dozens of years.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell was ranked 57th among the 100 Greatest Britons (2002) in an official BBC nationwide poll, and among the Top Ten Greatest Canadians (2004), and the 100 Greatest Americans (2005). In 2006, Bell was also named as one of the 10 greatest Scottish scientists in history after having been listed in the National Library of Scotland's 'Scottish Science Hall of Fame'. Bell's name is still widely known and used as part of the names of dozens of educational institutes, corporate namesakes, street and place names around the world.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell, who could not complete the university program of his youth, received at least a dozen honorary degrees from academic institutions, including eight honorary LL.D.s (Doctorate of Laws), two Ph.D.s, a D.Sc., and an M.D.:\n\n\n\nBell died of complications arising from diabetes on August 2, 1922, at his private estate in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, at age 75. Bell had also been afflicted with pernicious anemia. His last view of the land he had inhabited was by moonlight on his mountain estate at 2:00 a.m. While tending to him after his long illness, Mabel, his wife, whispered, \"Don't leave me.\" By way of reply, Bell signed \"no...\", lost consciousness, and died shortly after.\n\nOn learning of Bell's death, the Canadian Prime Minister, Mackenzie King, cabled Mrs. Bell, saying:\nMy colleagues in the Government join with me in expressing to you our sense of the world's loss in the death of your distinguished husband. It will ever be a source of pride to our country that the great invention, with which his name is immortally associated, is a part of its history. On the behalf of the citizens of Canada, may I extend to you an expression of our combined gratitude and sympathy.\n\nBell's coffin was constructed of Beinn Bhreagh pine by his laboratory staff, lined with the same red silk fabric used in his tetrahedral kite experiments. To help celebrate his life, his wife asked guests not to wear black (the traditional funeral color) while attending his service, during which soloist Jean MacDonald sang a verse of Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Requiem\":\n\nUpon the conclusion of Bell's funeral, \"every phone on the continent of North America was silenced in honor of the man who had given to mankind the means for direct communication at a distance\".\n\nDr. Alexander Graham Bell was buried atop Beinn Bhreagh mountain, on his estate where he had resided increasingly for the last 35 years of his life, overlooking Bras d'Or Lake. He was survived by his wife Mabel, his two daughters, Elsie May and Marian, and nine of his grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\"U.S. patent images in TIFF format\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13825822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13825822", "title": "Ando Shoeki", "text": "Ando Shoeki\n\nAndo Shoeki believed that recorded history was a deviation from the natural order of the world, and began with the advent of writing and the rise in power of specific groups, like government officials, priests, or scholars. These groups instituted laws, and began what Shoeki called the \"World of Law\". In Shoekian thought, the \"World of Law\" was flawed, unnatural, and unequal. He wanted all humans to have the same social status because Shokei believed that all humans were, in reality, the same person, and it was impossible for one to truly be above another. It was also important for Shoeki that humans only produce and consume what was necessary, a state which he called the \"Right Cultivation.\" Once every human was equal and had abandoned the \"World of Law\", Shoeki believed that mankind would finally enter the \"Self-Acting World\", a kind of paradise on Earth, although Shoeki believed that this would only be possible if the \"Right Man\", a messiah-like figure, arrived and fixed the world. Shoeki did not consider himself to be the \"Right Man\"; he was content to wait for him to arrive.\n\nShoekian metaphysics involves the transfer of energy in all living things. Shoeki believed that each type of organism had a different vector of energy: human energy went up because humans walked upright; animal energy went side-to-side because they crawled and because they ate each other in what Shoeki described as a sideways line; plant energy went down because they always were on the ground. These energies could be transferred across organisms to create new life as well. Humans, for example, are made from the excess energy in wheat, and mice are born from the smoke of a human's fire.\n\nTo show some of the ways to achieve the Right Cultivation, Shoeki made a series of laws named Buddhist rules and principles in an effort to satirize Buddhist thoughts. Each of these laws demonstrate some aspect of his anti-establishment ideology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4669351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669351", "title": "Angelic Organics", "text": "Angelic Organics\n\nAngelic Organics, located in Caledonia, Illinois, is one of the oldest Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) farms in the United States. Angelic Organics has grown produce in accordance with organic and biodynamic principles since 1990. Participating subscribers, known as shareholders, receive a weekly 3/4 bushel box of fresh vegetables and herbs delivered to over 40 Chicago area sites.\n\nAngelic Organics was featured in the award winning documentary film \"The Real Dirt on Farmer John\".\n"}
{"id": "42765912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765912", "title": "Animals in Science Committee", "text": "Animals in Science Committee\n\nThe Animals in Science Committee is an advisory non-departmental public body created by the British government in 2013 under the auspices of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 as part of its obligation under European Directive 2010/63/EU. It replaces the previous Animal Procedures Committee.\n"}
{"id": "10033351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10033351", "title": "Applied Research in Patacriticism", "text": "Applied Research in Patacriticism\n\nThe Applied Research in Patacriticism (ARP) was a digital humanities lab based at the University of Virginia founded and run by Jerome McGann and Johanna Drucker. ARP's open-source tools include Juxta, IVANHOE, and Collex. Collex is the social software and faceted browsing backbone of the NINES federation. ARP was funded by the Mellon Foundation.\n\nIVANHOE is an open source electronic role-playing game for educational use. It was developed by ARP at the University of Virginia. It is so named because Sir Walter Scott's novel, \"Ivanhoe\", was used as the source text for the very first IVANHOE game. IVANHOE is notable as an example of the use of ludic or game-related techniques in higher education in the humanities.\n\nNINES is the Networked Infrastructure for Nineteenth-century Electronic Scholarship, a scholarly organization in British and American nineteenth-century studies supported by ARP, a software development group assembling a suite of critical and editorial tools for digital scholarship. It was founded in 2003 by Jerome McGann at the University of Virginia. \n\nNINES serves as a clearinghouse for peer-reviewed digital resources, which can be collected, annotated, and re-used in online \"exhibits.\" It is powered by open-source Collex software.\n\nIn 2011, the NINES model was expanded to include a sister site in eighteenth-century studies, called 18thConnect.\n\nCollex is an open source social software and faceted browsing tool designed for digital humanities. It includes folksonomy features and is under construction at ARP. The first release of Collex is used in the NINES initiative, but it is a generalizable tool that can be applied to other subject domains. Collex is an early example of a scholar-driven Library 2.0 initiative and, like NINES, was conceived as a response to economic problems in tenure and academic publishing.\n\nJuxta is an open-source tool for performing bibliographical collations for scholarly use in textual criticism. It was developed by ARP at the University of Virginia under the direction of textual theorist Jerome McGann. The original application was a Java-based client available for free download.\n\nIn October 2012, the Research and Development team at NINES released Juxta Commons, a fully online version of the software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20154704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20154704", "title": "C. T. K. Chari", "text": "C. T. K. Chari\n\nC. T. K. Chari (5 June 1909 – 5 January 1993) was Head of the Department of Philosophy at Madras Christian College from 1958 to 1969 and the most prominent among contemporary Indian philosophers who paid close attention to psi phenomena. Chari published extensively on extremely diverse topics, such as logic, linguistics, information theory, mathematics, quantum physics, philosophy of mind, and, of course, psi research.\n\nCadambur Tiruvenkatachari Krishnamachari (CTK) was born on 5 June 1909 in Tiruvellore, South India. He was the third son of Tiruvenkatachari and Padmammal. He had two older brothers - C.T.Rajagopal, a noted mathematician, and C.T.Venugopal. They had a young sister - Kamala. They were grand nephews and niece of the illustrious brothers - Sir.P.Rajagopalachari KCSI, CIE and P.Narasimhachari - Justice in High Court of Burma (Myanmar).\n\nCTK and his family lived in Triplicane (Chennai) on Big Street and all of them studied in Hindu Higher secondary school. He did his intermediate in Presidency College, Chennai. Following the two years in the intermediate college, he got his BA (Honors) from Madras Christian College (MCC) and distinguished himself by also winning the Samuel Sathyanathan Gold medal for Philosophy. He then became a tutor and lecturer at American College, Madurai. In 1940, he joined MCC as an assistant professor.\n\nCTK was contributing scholarly articles to scientific magazines and journals even before he got his doctorate or before becoming a professor at MCC. His first paper – ‘An Epistemological approach to the special theory of relativity' was published by Mind in April 1937. Towards the end of 1952 he started to work on his doctoral thesis - 'On some spatial representations of time and their significance for problem of precognition'. His supervisor was Professor Parthasarathy (Major) and in 1953, his thesis was sent to a board of three judges that included Sir Karl Popper at University of London. He was awarded his PhD with top honors, something that was widely expected. At the same time the University allowed him to convert his BA (Honors) degree to be an MA degree.\n\nBy 1958, he was appointed the Head of the Department of Philosophy. From then to his retirement in 1969, he and his family lived at Staff Bungalow 15 (behind Bishop Heber Hall) on the Madras Christian College Campus at Tambaram. Following his retirement, he continued as a (University Grants Commission) professor until 1976. He also was the acting head of the department of Philosophy until 1971. The family moved outside the college campus to a house which they called 'The Cloister' where CTK and Mythili lived out the remainder of their lives.\n\nIn 1955, Gardner Murphy visited Dr. Chari at the request of Eileen Garrett - a medium and one of the founding members of the Parapsychology Foundation, after which Dr. Chari became a regular contributor to various parapsychological magazines.\n\nHe wrote much about philosophy of science, social impact of the philosophy, metaphysics, psychology, parapsychology, cognitive sciences and quantum mechanics. Apart from written articles for various journals, he also had his speeches broadcast on radio occasionally, of which 'Philosophy of Bertrand Russell' - is the only documented one as it was later published by All India Radio\n\nHe had a long and engaged battle of wits with Ian Stevenson who studied reincarnation across South East Asia and published a lot of cases favoring the phenomenon. CTK was skeptical, and questioned Dr. Stevenson's research in the Journal for American Society of Psychical Research. He similarly discussed the research and views of Dr. B. V. Raman, who was the founder of the Indian Astrological magazine.\n\nIn the 1980s, he slowly wound down his research activities, though his correspondence with various scholars continued to the very end. His last contribution was a paper titled 'Paranormal Religious Thanthology' to Christian Parapsychologist in March 1992. Mythili died in Jan 1992 and CTK died within a year in Jan 1993.\n\nBy C T K Chari\n- Introduction to the book titled ‘From India to the Planet Mars: a Study of a Case of Somnambulism’ by Flournoy, Theodore with Glossolalia; University Books; New Edition (1963)\n\n- A detailed list of scientific papers published is to be found here\n\nOn C T K Chari\n- Great Thinkers on Great Questions by Varghese, Roy Abraham (, )\n"}
{"id": "51449972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51449972", "title": "California drought manipulation conspiracy theory", "text": "California drought manipulation conspiracy theory\n\nThe California drought manipulation conspiracy theory is promoted by a number of independent researchers, self-proclaimed scientists, and alternative news outlets. The theory proposes that the 2011–2017 drought was a deliberate, man-made phenomenon, created by weather modification. The theory has been dismissed by the scientific community and mainstream media as fringe science or pseudoscience.\n\nThe 2011–2017 drought has inspired alarm among many, leading to the emergence of alternative theories, or \"conspiracy theories\", purporting to explain its cause.\n\nMany of the proponents claim that chemtrails are used to affect storm clouds, in a manner of suppressing the development of precipitation. This would occur because of the presence of too many cloud condensation nuclei, or \"cloud seeds\", in a single area. Others say that technologies similar to HAARP (a federal ionospheric research program, which was decommissioned in 2015), are being used to create a large and stubborn high-pressure area over the West Coast of the United States. They claim that this, also, discourages storms and rainfall.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known adherent of the theory is Dane Wigington, former solar engineer, and lead researcher for www.GeoEngineeringwatch.org a climate engineering watchdog group. He says government agencies and other entities have economic and geopolitical motivations to manipulate the weather on the West Coast and elsewhere.\n\nProponents have claimed credibility for the theory, in part, as a result of a Los Angeles County cloud seeding program, begun in early 2016. This reinforces their view that government continues to engage in weather modification and/or climate engineering.\n\nIn July 2014, the Shasta County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously in favor of a formal inquiry into chemtrail conspiracy claims. One of the reasons given was their potential to affect weather and rainfall. The action was cheered by supporters, but mocked by many in the media.\n\n"}
{"id": "28411713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28411713", "title": "Christian contemplation", "text": "Christian contemplation\n\nChristian contemplation, from \"contemplatio\" (Latin; Greek θεωρία, \"Theoria\"), refers to several Christian practices which aim at \"looking at\", \"gazing at\", \"being aware of\" God or the Divine. It includes several practices and theological concepts, and until the sixth century the practice of what is now called mysticism was referred to by the term contemplatio, c.q. theoria.\n\nChristianity took up the use of both the Greek (\"theoria\") and Latin (\"contemplatio\", contemplation) terminology to describe various forms of prayer and the process of coming to know God. Eastern and Western traditions of Christianity grew apart as they incorporated the general notion of theoria into their respective teachings.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church states that, \"the Christian tradition comprises three major expressions of the life of prayer: vocal prayer, meditation, and contemplative prayer. They have in common the recollection of the heart.\"Three stages are discerned in contemplative practice, namely purgative contemplation, contemplation proper, and the vision of God.\n\nThe Greek \"theoria\" (θεωρία), from which the English word \"theory\" (and \"theatre\") is derived, meant \"contemplation, speculation, a looking at, things looked at\", from \"theorein\" (θεωρεῖν) \"to consider, speculate, look at\", from \"theoros\" (θεωρός) \"spectator\", from \"thea\" (θέα) \"a view\" + \"horan\" (ὁρᾶν) \"to see\". It expressed the state of being a spectator. Both Greek \"θεωρία\" and Latin \"contemplatio\" primarily meant looking at things, whether with the eyes or with the mind.\n\nCommenting on Aristotle's view of the lack of practical usefulness of the contemplation of \"theoria\", Orthodox theologian Fr. Andrew Louth said: \nAccording to William Johnston, until the sixth century the practice of what is now called mysticism was referred to by the term \"contemplatio\", c.q. \"theoria\". According to Johnston, \"[b]oth contemplation and mysticism speak of the eye of love which is looking at, gazing at, aware of divine realities.\"\n\nSeveral scholars have demonstrated similarities between the Greek idea of \"theoria\" and the Indian idea of \"darśana\" (darshan), including Ian Rutherford and Gregory Grieve.\n\nThe term \"theoria\" was used by the ancient Greeks to refer to the act of experiencing or observing, and then comprehending through \"nous\".\n\nFor Plato, what the contemplative (\"theoros\") contemplates (\"theorei\") are the Forms, the realities underlying the individual appearances, and one who contemplates these atemporal and aspatial realities is enriched with a perspective on ordinary things superior to that of ordinary people. Philip of Opus viewed \"theoria\" as contemplation of the stars, with practical effects in everyday life similar to those that Plato saw as following from contemplation of the Forms.\n\nAristotle, on the other hand, separated the spectating of \"theoria\" from practical purposes, and saw it as an end in itself, the highest activity of man. To indicate that it is the philosopher who devotes himself to pursuits most worthy of a free man, Heraclides of Pontus compared him to a spectator (\"theoros\") at the Olympic spectacle: unlike the other participants, he does not seek either glory, as does the competitor, or money, as does the businessman. Aristotle used the same image:\nIndeed, Andrea Wilson Nightingale says that Aristotle considers that those who, instead of pursuing \"theoria\" for its own sake, would put it to useful ends would be engaging in \"theoria\" in the wrong way, and Richard Kraut says that, for Aristotle, theoretical activity alone has limitless value. Thomas Louis Schubeck says that, in Aristotle's view, the knowledge that guides ethical political activity does not belong to \"theoria\".\n\"Leading a contemplative life can be considered Aristotle's answer to the question what life humans ought to live. … The more humans engage in contemplation, the closer they are to their gods and the more perfect will be their happiness.\"\n\nAristotle's view that the best life would be a purely contemplative (intellectual) one was disputed by the Stoics and others, such as the Epicureans, who saw speculation as inferior to practical ethics. Middle Platonism and Neoplatonism considered contemplation superior and saw as its goal the knowledge of God or union with him, so that a \"contemplative life\" was a life devoted to God rather than to any kind of activity.\n\nIn the \"Enneads\" of Plotinus, a founder of Neoplatonism, everything is contemplation (\"theoria\") and everything is derived from contemplation. The first hypostasis, the One, is contemplation (by the nous, or second hypostasis) in that \"it turns to itself in the simplest regard, implying no complexity or need\"; this reflecting back on itself emanated (not created) the second hypostasis, Intellect (in Greek Νοῦς, \"Nous\"), Plotinus describes as \"living contemplation\", being \"self-reflective and contemplative activity par excellence\", and the third hypostatic level has \"theoria\". Knowledge of The One is achieved through experience of its power, an experience that is contemplation (\"theoria\") of the source of all things.\n\nPlotinus agreed with Aristotle's systematic distinction between contemplation (\"theoria\") and practice (\"praxis\"): dedication to the superior life of \"theoria\" requires abstension from practical, active life. Plotinus explained: \"The point of action is contemplation. … Contemplation is therefore the end of action\" and \"Such is the life of the divinity and of divine and blessed men: detachments from all things here below, scorn of all earthly pleasures, the flight of the lone to the Alone.\"\n\nContemplative or mystical practice is a longstanding and integral part of the life of Christian churches. In the Eastern Orthodox Churches, the predominant form is hesychasm (\"stillness\"). In both eastern and western Christianity it is part of mystical practices.\n\nSome Neoplatonic ideas were adopted by Christianity, among them the idea of \"theoria\" or contemplation, taken over by Gregory of Nyssa for example. The Brill Dictionary of Gregory of Nyssa remarks that contemplation in Gregory is described as a \"loving contemplation\", and, according to Thomas Keating, the Greek Fathers of the Church, in taking over from the Neoplatonists the word \"theoria\", attached to it the idea expressed by the Hebrew word \"da'ath\", which, though usually translated as \"knowledge\", is a much stronger term, since it indicates the experiential knowledge that comes with love and that involves the whole person, not merely the mind. Among the Greek Fathers, Christian \"theoria\" was not contemplation of Platonic Ideas nor of the astronomical heavens of Pontic Heraclitus, but \"studying the Scriptures\", with an emphasis on the spiritual sense.\n\nLater, contemplation came to be distinguished from intellectual life, leading to the identification of θεωρία or \"contemplatio\" with a form of prayer distinguished from discursive meditation in both East and West. Some make a further distinction, within contemplation, between contemplation acquired by human effort and infused contemplation.\n\nIn early Christianity the term \"mystikos\" referred to three dimensions, which soon became intertwined, namely the biblical, the liturgical and the spiritual or contemplative. The biblical dimension refers to \"hidden\" or allegorical interpretations of Scriptures. The liturgical dimension refers to the liturgical mystery of the Eucharist, the presence of Christ at the Eucharist. The third dimension is the contemplative or experiential knowledge of God.\n\nUnder the influence of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite the mystical theology came to denote the investigation of the allegorical truth of the Bible, and \"the spiritual awareness of the ineffable Absolute beyond the theology of divine names.\" Pseudo-Dionysius' Apophatic theology, or \"negative theology\", exerted a great influence on medieval monastic religiosity. It was influenced by Neo-Platonism, and very influential in Eastern Orthodox Christian theology. In western Christianity it was a counter-current to the prevailing Cataphatic theology or \"positive theology\".\n\n\"Theoria\" enabled the Fathers to perceive depths of meaning in the biblical writings that escape a purely scientific or empirical approach to interpretation. The Antiochene Fathers, in particular, saw in every passage of Scripture a double meaning, both literal and spiritual. As Frances Margaret Young notes, \"Best translated in this context as a type of \"insight\", \"theoria\" was the act of perceiving in the wording and \"story\" of Scripture a moral and spiritual meaning,\" and may be regarded as a form of allegory,\n\nAccording to John Romanides, in the teachings of Eastern Orthodox Christianity the quintessential purpose and goal of the Christian life is to attain \"theosis\" or 'deification', understood as 'likeness to' or 'union with' God. \"Theosis\" is expressed as \"Being, union with God\" and having a relationship or synergy between God and man. God \"is\" the Kingdom of Heaven.\n\n\"Theosis\" or unity with God is obtained by engaging in contemplative prayer, the first stage of \"theoria\", which results from the cultivation of watchfulness (Gk: \"nepsis\"). In \"theoria\", one comes to see or \"behold\" God or \"uncreated light,\" a grace which is \"uncreated.\" In the Eastern Christian traditions, theoria is the most critical component needed for a person to be considered a theologian; however it is not necessary for one's salvation. An experience of God is necessary to the spiritual and mental health of every created thing, including human beings. Knowledge of God is not intellectual, but existential. According to eastern theologian Andrew Louth, the purpose of theology as a science is to prepare for contemplation, rather than theology being the purpose of contemplation.\n\n\"Theoria\" is the main aim of hesychasm, which, under the influence of St. Symeon the New Theologian, developed out of the practice of quietism. Symeon believed that direct experience gave monks the authority to preach and give absolution of sins, without the need for formal ordination. While Church authorities also taught from a speculative and philosophical perspective, Symeon taught from his own direct mystical experience, and met with strong resistance for his charismatic approach, and his support of individual direct experience of God's grace. According to John Romanides, this difference in teachings on the possibility to experience God or the uncreated light is at the very heart of many theological conflicts between Eastern Orthodox Christianity and Western Christianity, which is seen to culminate in the conflict over hesychasm.\n\nAccording to John Romanides, following Vladimir Lossky in his interpretation of St. Gregory Palamas, the teaching that God is transcendent (incomprehensible in ousia, essence or being), has led in the West to the (mis)understanding that God cannot be experienced in this life. Romanides states that Western theology is more dependent upon logic and reason, culminating in scholasticism used to validate truth and the existence of God, than upon establishing a relationship with God (theosis and theoria).\n\nIn the Latin or Western Church terms derived from the Latin word \"contemplatio\" such as, in English, \"contemplation\" are generally used in languages largely derived from Latin, rather than the Greek term \"theoria\". The equivalence of the Latin and Greek terms was noted by John Cassian, whose writings influenced the whole of Western monasticism, in his \"Conferences\". However, Catholic writers do sometimes use the Greek term.\n\nIn discursive meditation, mind and imagination and other faculties are actively employed in an effort to understand our relationship with God. In contemplative prayer, this activity is curtailed, so that contemplation has been described as \"a gaze of faith\", \"a silent love\". There is no clear-cut boundary between Christian meditation and Christian contemplation, and they sometimes overlap. Meditation serves as a foundation on which the contemplative life stands, the practice by which someone begins the state of contemplation.\n\nJohn of the Cross described the difference between discursive meditation and contemplation by saying: \nMattá al-Miskīn, an Oriental Orthodox monk has posited: \n\nAn exercise long used among Christians for acquiring contemplation, one that is \"available to everyone, whether he be of the clergy or of any secular occupation\", is that of focusing the mind by constant repetition a phrase or word. Saint John Cassian recommended use of the phrase \"O God, make speed to save me: O Lord, make haste to help me\". Another formula for repetition is the name of Jesus. or the Jesus Prayer, which has been called \"the mantra of the Orthodox Church\", although the term \"Jesus Prayer\" is not found in the Fathers of the Church. The author of \"The Cloud of Unknowing\" recommended use of a monosyllabic word, such as \"God\" or \"Love\".\n\nThe Jesus Prayer, which, for the early Fathers, was just a training for repose, the later Byzantines developed into hesychasm, a spiritual work of its own, attaching to it technical requirements and various stipulations that became a matter of serious theological controversy, and are still of great interest to Byzantine, Russian and other eastern churches. While he maintains his practice of the Jesus Prayer, the Hesychast cultivates \"nepsis\", watchful attention. Sobriety contributes to this mental askesis that rejects tempting thoughts; it puts a great emphasis on focus and attention. The Hesychast is to pay extreme attention to the consciousness of his inner world and to the words of the Jesus Prayer, not letting his mind wander in any way at all. The Jesus Prayer invokes an attitude of humility essential for the attainment of \"theoria\". The Jesus Prayer is also invoked to pacify the passions, as well as the illusions that lead a person to actively express these passions. The worldly, neurotic mind is habitually accustomed to seek perpetuation of pleasant sensations and to avoid unpleasant ones. This state of incessant agitation of the mind is attributed to the corruption of primordial knowledge and union with God (the Fall of Man and the defilement and corruption of consciousness, or \"nous\"). According to St. Theophan the Recluse, though the Jesus Prayer has long been associated with the Prayer of the Heart, they are not synonymous.\n\nMethods of prayer in the Roman Catholic Church include recitation of the Jesus Prayer, which \"combines the Christological hymn of with the cry of the publican () and the blind man begging for light (). By it the heart is opened to human wretchedness and the Saviour's mercy\"; invocation of the holy name of Jesus; recitation, as recommended by Saint John Cassian, of \"O God, come to my assistance; O Lord, make haste to help me\" or other verses of Scripture; repetition of a single monosyllabic word, as suggested by the Cloud of Unknowing, such as \"God\" or \"Love\"; the method used in Centering Prayer; the use of Lectio Divina. In modern times, Centering prayer, which is also called \"Prayer of the heart\" and \"Prayer of Simplicity,\" has been popularized by Thomas Keating, drawing on Hesychasm and the \"Cloud of Unknowing\". The practice of contemplative prayer has also been encouraged by the formation of associations like The Julian Meetings and the Fellowship of Meditation.\n\nAccording to the standard ascetic formulation of this process, as formulated by Dionysius the Pseudo-Areopagite, there are three stages:\n\nPurification and illumination of the noetic faculty are preparations for the vision of God. Without this preparations it is impossible for man's selfish love to be transformed into selfless love. This transformation takes place during the higher level of the stage of illumination called theoria, literally meaning vision, in this case vision \"by means of unceasing and uninterrupted memory of God\". Those who remain selfish and self-centered with a hardened heart, closed to God's love, will not see the glory of God in this life. However, they will see God's glory eventually, but as an eternal and consuming fire and outer darkness.\n\nIn the advance to contemplation Augustine spoke of seven stages:\n\nSaint Teresa of Avila described four degrees or stages of mystical union: \n\nThe first three are weak, medium, and the energetic states of the same grace. The transforming union differs from them specifically and not merely in intensity. It consists in the habitual consciousness of a mysterious grace which all shall possess in heaven: the anticipation of the Divine nature. The soul is conscious of the Divine assistance in its superior supernatural operations, those of the intellect and the will. Spiritual marriage differs from spiritual espousals inasmuch as the first of these states is permanent and the second only transitory.\n\nIn the Orthodox Churches, theosis results from leading a pure life, practicing restraint and adhering to the commandments, putting the love of God before all else. This metamorphosis (transfiguration) or transformation results from a deep love of God. Saint Isaac the Syrian says that \"Paradise is the love of God, in which the bliss of all the beatitudes is contained,\" and that \"the tree of life is the love of God\" (Homily 72). \"Theoria\" is thus achieved by the pure of heart who are no longer subject to the afflictions of the passions. It is a gift from the Holy Spirit to those who, through observance of the commandments of God and ascetic practices (see praxis, kenosis, Poustinia and schema), have achieved dispassion.\n\nPurification precedes conversion and constitutes a turning away from all that is unclean and unwholesome. This is a purification of mind and body. As preparation for \"theoria\", however, the concept of purification in this three-part scheme refers most importantly to the purification of consciousness (\"nous\"), the faculty of discernment and knowledge (wisdom), whose awakening is essential to coming out of the state of delusion that is characteristic of the worldly-minded. After the \"nous\" has been cleansed, the faculty of wisdom may then begin to operate more consistently. With a purified \"nous\", clear vision and understanding become possible, making one fit for contemplative prayer.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox ascetic tradition called hesychasm, humility, as a saintly attribute, is called Holy Wisdom or \"sophia\". Humility is the most critical component to humanity's salvation. Following Christ's instruction to \"go into your room or closet and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret\" (Matthew 6:6), the hesychast withdraws into solitude in order that he or she may enter into a deeper state of contemplative stillness. By means of this stillness, the mind is calmed, and the ability to see reality is enhanced. The practitioner seeks to attain what the apostle Paul called 'unceasing prayer'.\n\nSome Eastern Orthodox theologians object to what they consider an overly speculative, rationalistic, and insufficiently experiential nature of Roman Catholic theology. and confusion between different aspects of the Trinity.\n\nIn the Orthodox Churches, noetic prayer is the first stage of \"theoria\". \"Theoria\" proper is the vision of God, which is beyond conceptual knowledge, like the difference between reading about the experience of another, and reading about one's own experience.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, in natural or acquired contemplation there is one dominant thought or sentiment which recurs constantly and easily (although with little or no development) amid many other thoughts, beneficial or otherwise. The prayer of simplicity often has a tendency to simplify itself even in respect to its object, leading one to think chiefly of God and of his presence, but in a confused manner. Definitions similar to that of Saint Alphonsus Maria de Liguori are given by Adolphe Tanquerey (\"a simple gaze on God and divine things proceeding from love and tending thereto\") and Saint Francis de Sales (\"a loving, simple and permanent attentiveness of the mind to divine things\").\n\nIn the words of Saint Alphonsus Maria de Liguori, acquired contemplation \"consists in seeing at a simple glance the truths which could previously be discovered only through prolonged discourse\": reasoning is largely replaced by intuition and affections and resolutions, though not absent, are only slightly varied and expressed in a few words. Similarly, Saint Ignatius of Loyola, in his 30-day retreat or Spiritual Exercises beginning in the \"second week\" with its focus on the life of Jesus, describes less reflection and more simple contemplation on the events of Jesus' life. These contemplations consist mainly in a simple gaze and include an \"application of the senses\" to the events, to further one's empathy for Jesus' values, \"to love him more and to follow him more closely.\"\n\nNatural or acquired contemplation has been compared to the attitude of a mother watching over the cradle of her child: she thinks lovingly of the child without reflection and amid interruptions. The Catechism of the Catholic Church states: \nIn the Orthodox Churches, the highest theoria, the highest consciousness that can be experienced by the whole person, is the vision of God. God is beyond being; He is a hyper-being; God is beyond nothingness. Nothingness is a gulf between God and man. God is the origin of everything, including nothingness. This experience of God in hypostasis shows God's essence as incomprehensible, or uncreated. God is the origin, but has no origin; hence, he is apophatic and transcendent in essence or being, and cataphatic in foundational realities, immanence and energies. This ontic or ontological theoria is the observation of God.\n\nA nous in a state of ecstasy or ekstasis, called the eighth day, is not internal or external to the world, outside of time and space; it experiences the infinite and limitless God. \"Nous\" is the \"eye of the soul\" (Matthew 6:22–34). Insight into being and becoming (called noesis) through the intuitive truth called faith, in God (action through faith and love for God), leads to truth through our contemplative faculties. This theory, or speculation, as action in faith and love for God, is then expressed famously as \"Beauty shall Save the World\". This expression comes from a mystical or gnosiological perspective, rather than a scientific, philosophical or cultural one.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, infused or higher contemplation, also called intuitive, passive or extraordinary, is a supernatural gift by which a person's mind will become totally centered on God. It is a form of mystical union with God, a union characterized by the fact that it is God, and God only, who manifests himself. Under this influence of God, which assumes the free cooperation of the human will, the intellect receives special insights into things of the spirit, and the affections are extraordinarily animated with divine love. This union that it entails may be linked with manifestations of a created object, as, for example, visions of the humanity of Christ or an angel or revelations of a future event, etc. They include miraculous bodily phenomena sometimes observed in ecstatics.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, infused contemplation, described as a \"divinely originated, general, non-conceptual, loving awareness of God\", is, according to Thomas Dubay, the normal, ordinary development of discursive prayer, which it gradually replaces. He writes:\nDubay considers infused contemplation as common only among \"those who try to live the whole Gospel wholeheartedly and who engage in an earnest prayer life\". Other writers view contemplative prayer in its infused supernatural form as far from common. John Baptist Scaramelli, reacting in the 17th century against quietism, taught that asceticism and mysticism are two distinct paths to perfection, the former being the normal, ordinary end of the Christian life, and the latter something extraordinary and very rare. Jordan Aumann considered that this idea of the two paths was \"an innovation in spiritual theology and a departure from the traditional Catholic teaching\". And Jacques Maritain proposed that one should not say that every mystic necessarily enjoys habitual infused contemplation in the mystical state, since the gifts of the Holy Spirit are not limited to intellectual operations.\n\nIn the Orthodox Churches, theoria is regarded to lead to true spiritual knowledge, in contrast to the false or incomplete knowledge of rational thought, c.q. conjecture, speculation, \"dianoia\", \"stochastic\" and dialectics). After illumination or theoria, humanity is in union with God and can properly discern, or have holy wisdom. Hence theoria, the experience or vision of God, silences all humanity.\n\nThe most common false spiritual knowledge is derived not from an experience of God, but from reading another person's experience of God and subsequently arriving at one's own conclusions, believing those conclusions to be indistinguishable from the actual experienced knowledge.\n\nFalse spiritual knowledge can also be iniquitous, generated from an evil rather than a holy source. The gift of the knowledge of good and evil is then required, which is given by God. Humanity, in its finite existence as created beings or creatures, can never, by its own accord, arrive at a sufficiently objective consciousness. Theosis is the gradual submission of a person to the good, who then with divine grace from the person's relationship or union with God, attains deification. Illumination restores humanity to that state of faith existent in God, called \"noesis\", before humanity's consciousness and reality was changed by their fall.\n\nIn the orthodox Churches, false spiritual knowledge is regarded as leading to spiritual delusion (Russian prelest, Greek plani), which is the opposite of sobriety. Sobriety (called nepsis) means full consciousness and self-realization (enstasis), giving true spiritual knowledge (called true gnosis). Prelest or plani is the estrangement of the person to existence or objective reality, an alienation called amartía. This includes damaging or vilifying the nous, or simply having a non-functioning noetic and neptic faculty.\n\nEvil is, by definition, the act of turning humanity against its creator and existence. Misotheism, a hatred of God, is a catalyst that separates humanity from nature, or vilifies the realities of ontology, the spiritual world and the natural or material world. Reconciliation between God (the uncreated) and man is reached through submission in faith to God the eternal, i.e. transcendence rather than transgression (magic).\n\nThe Trinity as Nous, Word and Spirit (hypostasis) is, ontologically, the basis of humanity's being or existence. The Trinity is the creator of humanity's being via each component of humanity's existence: origin as nous (ex nihilo), inner experience or spiritual experience, and physical experience, which is exemplified by Christ (logos or the uncreated prototype of the highest ideal) and his saints. The following of false knowledge is marked by the symptom of somnolence or \"awake sleep\" and, later, psychosis. Theoria is opposed to allegorical or symbolic interpretations of church traditions.\n\nIn the Orthodox practice, once the stage of true discernment (diakrisis) is reached (called phronema), one is able to distinguish false gnosis from valid gnosis and has holy wisdom. The highest holy wisdom, Sophia, or Hagia Sophia, is cultivated by humility or meekness, akin to that personified by the Theotokos and all of the saints that came after her and Christ, collectively referred to as the ecclesia or church. This community of unbroken witnesses is the Orthodox Church.\n\nWisdom is cultivated by humility (emptying of oneself) and remembrance of death against thymos (ego, greed and selfishness) and the passions. Practicing asceticism is being dead to the passions and the ego, collectively known as the world.\n\nGod is beyond knowledge and the fallen human mind, and, as such, can only be experienced in his hypostases through faith (noetically). False ascetism leads not to reconciliation with God and existence, but toward a false existence based on rebellion to existence.\n\nFifteen Carmelite nuns allowed scientists to scan their brains with fMRI while they were meditating, in a state known as Unio Mystica or \"Theoria\". The results showed the regions of the brain that were activated when they considered themselves to be in mystical union with God.\n\nIn modern times \"theoria\" is sometimes treated as distinct from the meaning given to it in Christianity, linking the word not with contemplation but with speculation. Boethius (c. 480–524 or 525) translated the Greek word \"theoria\" into Latin, not as \"contemplatio\" but as \"speculatio\", and \"theoria\" is taken to mean speculative philosophy. A distinction is made, more radical than in ancient philosophy, between \"theoria\" and \"praxis\", theory and practice.\n\nSubnotes\nPrinted sources\n\nEastern Orthodox\nWestern\n\n"}
{"id": "18506035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18506035", "title": "Concerned Philosophers for Peace", "text": "Concerned Philosophers for Peace\n\nConcerned Philosophers For Peace (CPP) is an organization of professional philosophers founded in 1981. It is the \"largest and most active organization of professional philosophers in North America oriented to the critique of militarism and the search for a just and lasting peace.\" The organization sponsors an annual conference, as well as programs at meetings of the American Philosophical Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2781184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781184", "title": "Dotfuscator", "text": "Dotfuscator\n\nDotfuscator is a tool that hinders reverse engineering and tampering for .NET, Xamarin and Universal Windows Platform applications. It implements a combination of code obfuscation, optimization, shrinking, and hardening technologies.\n\nA free version of the .NET Obfuscator, called the Dotfuscator Community Edition, is distributed as part of Microsoft's Visual Studio.\n\n.NET executables can easily be reverse engineered by free tools (such as dotPeek and JustDecompile), potentially exposing algorithms and intellectual property (trade secrets), licensing and security mechanisms. Also, code can be run through a debugger and its data inspected. Using a .NET obfuscator can make all of these things more difficult.\n\nDotfuscator was developed by PreEmptive Solutions and a version has been free inside Microsoft's Visual Studio since 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14754422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14754422", "title": "Francesco Acri", "text": "Francesco Acri\n\nFrancesco Acri (Catanzaro, 19 March 1834 – Bologna, 21 November 1913) was an Italian philosopher and historian of philosophy.\n\nAfter graduating with a degree in jurisprudence at Naples in 1857 and studying Aristotle and Kant at Berlin under Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburg, he became a teacher of the history of philosophy, first at the University of Palermo and then, from 1871 at the University of Bologna, where he remained until 1911.\n\nBound to Rosminian spiritualism, he engaged in invective with the Hegelians and the positivists, in a long dispute with his predecessor in the Bolognese chair, Francesco Fiorentino.\n\nPolitically a clerical, he was elected as a city councilor in Bologna in 1895, he campaigned against divorce and for the introduction of the catechism in schools, and was also a strenuous defender of the participation of Catholics in public life.\n\nAmong his major scholarly writings, the translation and commentary on the Dialogues of Plato (various partial editions, collected in three volumes between 1913 and 1915).\n\nHis tomb is in the Certosa di Bologna. On the stone dedicated to him, the following memorial is written:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12829161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12829161", "title": "Free parameter", "text": "Free parameter\n\nA free parameter is a variable in a mathematical model which cannot be predicted precisely or constrained by the model and must be estimated experimentally or theoretically. A mathematical model, theory, or conjecture is more likely to be right and less likely to be the product of wishful thinking if it relies on few free parameters and is consistent with large amounts of data.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135548", "title": "Generosity", "text": "Generosity\n\nGenerosity (also called largess) is the virtue of being unattached to material possessions, often symbolized by the giving of gifts. Generosity is regarded as a virtue by various world religions, and is often celebrated in cultural and religious ceremonies. Scientific investigation into generosity has examined the effect of a number of scenarios and games on individuals' generosity, and potential links with neurochemicals such as oxytocin, and relationship with similar feelings, such as that of empathy.\n\nGenerosity is sometimes used to denote charity, (the virtue of giving without expecting anything in return). It can involve offering time, assets or talents to aid someone in need. In times of natural disaster, relief efforts are frequently provided, voluntarily, by individuals or groups acting unilaterally in making gifts of time, resources, goods, money, etc. Generosity is a guiding principle for many registered charities, foundations, and non-profit organizations.\n\nAlthough the term generosity often goes hand-in-hand with charity, many people in the public's eye want recognition for their good deeds. Donations are needed to support organizations and committees, however, generosity should not be limited to times of great need such as natural disasters and extreme situations.\nThe modern English word \"generosity\" derives from the Latin word \"generōsus\", which means \"of noble birth\", which itself was passed down to English through the Old French word \"généreux\". The Latin stem \"gener–\" is the declensional stem of \"genus\", meaning \"kin\", \"clan\", \"race\", or \"stock\", with the root Indo-European meaning of \"gen\" being \"to beget\". The same root gives the words \"genesis\", \"gentry\", \"gender\", \"genital\", \"gentile\", \"genealogy\", and \"genius\", among others.\nMost recorded English uses of the word \"generous\" up to and during the sixteenth century reflect an aristocratic sense of being of noble lineage or high birth. To be generous was literally a way of complying with nobility.\n\nDuring the 17th century, however, the meaning and use of the word began to change. \"Generosity\" came increasingly to identify not literal family heritage but a nobility of spirit thought to be associated with high birth—that is, with various admirable qualities that could now vary from person to person, depending not on family history but on whether a person actually possessed the qualities. In this way \"generosity\" increasingly came in the 17th century to signify a variety of traits of character and action historically associated (whether accurately or not) with the ideals of actual nobility: gallantry, courage, strength, richness, gentleness, and fairness. In addition to describing these diverse human qualities, \"generous\" became a word during this period used to describe fertile land, the strength of animal breeds, abundant provisions of food, vibrancy of colors, the strength of liquor, and the potency of medicine.\n\nThen, during the 18th century, the meaning of \"generosity\" continued to evolve in directions denoting the more specific, contemporary meaning of munificence, open–handedness, and liberality in the giving of money and possessions to others. This more specific meaning came to dominate English usage by the 19th century. Over the last five centuries in the English speaking world, \"generosity\" developed from being primarily the description of an ascribed status pertaining to the elite nobility to being an achieved mark of admirable personal quality and action capable of being exercised in theory by any person who had learned virtue and noble character (Smith 2009).\n\nIn Buddhism, generosity is one of the Ten Perfections and is the antidote to the self-chosen poison called \"greed\". Generosity is known as charity in the Bible, and daan in the Eastern religious scriptures.\n\nIn Islam Quran states that whatever one gives away generously, with the intention of pleasing God, He will replace it. God knows what is in the hearts of men. Say: “Truly, my Lord enlarges the provision for whom He wills of His slaves, and also restricts it) for him, and whatsoever you spend of anything (in God’s Cause), He will replace it. And He is the Best of providers.” (Quran 34:39)\n\nIn Christianity, the Book of Acts states that Jesus said that giving is better than receiving (Acts 20:35). \n\n\nअपूर्व: कोपि कोशोयं विद्यते तव भारति |व्ययतो वॄद्धिम् आयाति क्षयम् आयाति संचयात् ||\n\nResearch has shown that generosity is associated with empathy. In this research, by Paul J. Zak and colleagues and published in Public Library of Science ONE, the peptide oxytocin or placebo was given to about 100 men and then they made several decisions regarding money. One, the Dictator Game, was used to measure altruism by asking people to make a unilateral transfer of $10 they were given by the experimenters to a stranger in the lab; oxytocin had no effect on altruism.\n\nAnother task, the Ultimatum Game, was used to measure generosity. In this game, one person was endowed with $10 and was asked to offer some split of it to another person in the lab, all done by computer. If the second person did not like the split, he could reject it (for example, if it was stingy) and both people would get zero. In a clever twist, the researchers told participants they would be randomly chosen to be \"either\" the person making the offer or the person responding to it. This required the person making the offer to take the other's perspective explicitly. Generosity was defined as an offer greater than the minimum amount needed for acceptance. Oxytocin increased generosity 80% compared to those on placebo. In addition, oxytocin was quantitatively twice as important in predicting generosity as was altruism.\n\nThe science of generosity initiative at the University of Notre Dame is investigating the sources, origins, and causes of generosity; manifestations and expressions of generosity; and consequences of generosity for both the givers and receivers involved. Generosity for the purposes of this project is defined as the virtue of giving good things to others freely and abundantly.\n\n"}
{"id": "40349649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40349649", "title": "Georgia Warnke", "text": "Georgia Warnke\n\nGeorgia Warnke is a Distinguished Professor of Political Science (and formerly Distinguished Professor of Philosophy) and the Director of the Center for Ideas & Society at the University of California, Riverside. She chaired the Department from 2002 to 2004. She also acted as the Associate Dean for Arts and Humanities, College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences at UCR from 2006 to 2011.\n\nWarnke received a bachelor's degree from Reed College in 1973. She went on to receive a master's degree from Boston University in 1978, and a doctorate, also from Boston University, in 1982.\n\nPrior to her current appointment, Warnke held an appointment as Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Yale University from 1982 to 1988, being promoted to Associate Professor in 1988, and staying until 1991 when she moved to Riverside. Besides her main appointment in the Philosophy and Political Science Departments, Warnke also held an additional appointment as a Professor of Women's Studies at UCR between 2001 and 2004. Throughout these appointments, she has also served in a variety of roles within her departments, in UCR's Academic Senate, and in the American Philosophical Association.\n\nWarnke's research centers on hermeneutics, critical theory, political theory, and feminism. She has written extensively about the works of Jürgen Habermas, Richard Rorty, Hans-Georg Gadamer, and other hermeneutics-oriented philosophers. More recently, she has critically examined issues of identity, especially issues of race and gender identity.\n\nWarnke has published four books (many with multiple editions); \"Gadamer: Hermeneutics, Tradition, and Reason\" in 1987, \"Justice and Interpretation\" in 1993, \"Legitimate Differences: Interpretation in the Abortion Controversy and Other Public Debates\" in 1999, and \"After Identity: Rethinking Race, Sex, and Gender\" in 2007. She has also written a number of book chapters, peer-reviewed journal articles, and encyclopedia articles, including pieces in \"\", \"\", \"Dissent\", \"Philosophy & Social Criticism\", the \"Journal of Social Philosophy\", the \"Encyclopedia of Ethics\", \"A Companion to Metaphysics\", and the \"Companion to the Philosophers\" among many others.\n\nWarnke is a member of the editorial board of \"\". Her term started in 2000.\n\nIn \"After Identity\", Warnke suggested that racial, gender, sexual, and other identities are lenses through which people view the nature of themselves or others and that, just as is the case with the interpretation of art, no single identity is uniquely correct or complete - i.e., no one's perceived identity holds unique or whole truth, and some identities may be meaningless in contexts other than that in which they were conceived. Warnke frames many of her gender-identity based arguments throughout the book using the case study of Bruce Reimer, someone who lost his penis shortly after birth during a mangled circumcision, and, having been brought up as a girl, rebelled against that identity, and extends the conclusions she draws from these arguments to questions of racial identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "22021723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22021723", "title": "Henri Ey", "text": "Henri Ey\n\nHenri Ey (; 10 August 1900, Banyuls-dels-Aspres – 8 November 1977, Banyuls-dels-Aspres) was a French neurologist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and philosopher.\n\nEy was born on 10 August 1900 in Banyuls-dels-Aspres, Pyrénées-Orientales, and died there on 9 November 1977.\n\nAfter the second world war Ey renewed the group \"L'Evolution Psychiatrique\" with Eugène Minkowski.\n\nEy developed an \"organodynamic psychology\" and a theory of the structure of states of consciousness, in which he developed ideas of Pierre Janet and John Hughlings Jackson.\n\n\nIt was under this title that Ey developed a unifying psychology which included both organic (neurological, genetic, etc.) and psychodynamic factors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4230791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4230791", "title": "Howard Berg", "text": "Howard Berg\n\nHoward Curtis Berg (born 1934) is the Herchel Smith Professor of Physics and Professor of Molecular and Cellular Biology at Harvard University, where he teaches biophysics and studies the motility of the bacterium \"Escherichia coli (E. coli)\".\n\nBerg has been a member of the Harvard University Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology since 1986 and of the Harvard University Department of Physics since 1997. He is also a member of the Rowland Institute for Science at Harvard University.\n\nBerg studied as an undergraduate at the California Institute of Technology and in 1964 earned a Ph.D. in chemical physics from Harvard, with a dissertation on the hydrogen maser directed by Norman Ramsey.\n\nWhile at Harvard, Berg was a junior fellow in the Society of Fellows. He later taught at the University of Colorado and Caltech.\n\nWith Edward Purcell, Berg received the Max Delbrück Prize in Biological Physics from the American Physical Society in 1984 for work on the physical limits of bacterial chemoreception. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1985. He is author of the influential book \"Random Walks in Biology\" (Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, NJ, 1983) about the biological applications of diffusion.\n\nBerg is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1740236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740236", "title": "Intrinsic finality", "text": "Intrinsic finality\n\nIntrinsic finality is the idea that there is a natural good for all beings, and that all beings have a natural tendency to pursue their own good. It is an underlying principle of both teleology and moral objectivism. The concept of intrinsic finality was summarized by Thomas Aquinas as follows:\n\nThe idea of intrinsic finality presumes an objective reality that obeys a natural order or natural law in the universe. Things are \"meant\" to be and behave a certain way, and naturally tend to act that way. For instance, animals have natural instincts for self-preservation, seeking food, and reproduction. They do so because it is their \"nature\" to do so. Theologians go further, to argue that they do so because they were \"created\" to do so.\n\nThe existence of such a finality is often challenged, particularly by philosophers ascribing to philosophical naturalism. They argue that it is unreasonable to say that all beings naturally pursue their own benefit, when some beings clearly do not. They point to instances of imperfection, disease, and death as evidence that natural beings do not naturally move toward perfection. But proponents of intrinsic finalilty respond that the very recognition of such imperfection requires an ideal or standard of the perfect end from which the being in question falls short owing to a variety of factors including improper education, sin, or predestination.\n\nIntrinsic finality provides the basis for the teleological argument for the existence of God and its modern counterpart, intelligent design. Proponents of teleology argue that Darwinism does not resolve a fundamental defect in philosophical naturalism; that it focuses exclusively on the immediate causes and mechanisms of events and does not attend to the reason for their synthesis. For example, if we take a clock apart, we discover in it nothing but springs, wheels, pivots, levers and so on but does our having explained the mechanism which causes the revolutions of the hands on the dial make it reasonable to say that the clock was not made to keep time?\n\nNaturalists respond that biology has been profoundly concerned with the ways function constrains structure since the time of Aristotle and that Darwin's own awareness of teleology is evident in his study in functional constraints on the evolutionary development of the beaks of Galapagos finches, of which he wrote, \"Seeing this gradation and diversity of structure in one small, intimately related group of birds, one might really fancy that from an original paucity of birds in this archipelago, one species had been taken and modified for different ends.\" (\"Origin of Species\", chapter 19)\n"}
{"id": "971605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971605", "title": "Jacob Acontius", "text": "Jacob Acontius\n\nJacob Acontius (), , was an Italian jurist, theologian, philosopher and engineer. He is now known for his contribution to the history of religious toleration.\n\nHe was traditionally thought to have been born at Trento, although it was probably Ossana.\n\nHe was one of the Italians, like Peter Martyr and Bernardino Ochino, who repudiated papal doctrine and ultimately found refuge in England. Like them, his revolt against Romanism took a more extreme form than Lutheranism, and after a temporary residence in Switzerland and at Strasbourg (between 1557 and 1558), he arrived in England soon after Elizabeth's accession (1559). He had studied law and theology, but his profession was that of an engineer, and in this capacity he found employment with the English government. \n\nOn his arrival in London he joined the Dutch Reformed Church in Austin Friars, but he was \"infected with Anabaptistical and Arian opinions\" and was excluded from the sacrament by Edmund Grindal, bishop of London. He was granted naturalization on 8 October 1561. He was for some time occupied with draining Plumstead marshes, for which object various acts of Parliament were passed at this time. In 1564 he was sent to report on the fortifications of Berwick and it appears that he was known in England for both work as an engineer and a religious reformer and advocate of tolerance during the early Reformation.\n\nBefore reaching England he had published a treatise on the methods of investigation, \"De Methodo, hoc est, de recte investigandarum tradendarumque Scientiarum ratione\" (Basel, 1558, 8vo); and his critical spirit placed him outside all the recognized religious societies of his time. His heterodoxy is revealed in his \"Stratagematum Satanae libri octo\", sometimes abbreviated as \"Stratagemata Satanae\", published in 1565 and translated into various languages. The \"Stratagems of Satan\" are the dogmatic creeds which rent the Christian church. Aconcio sought to find the common denominator of the various creeds; this was essential doctrine, the rest was immaterial. To arrive at this common basis, he had to reduce dogma to a low level, and his result was generally repudiated. \"Stratagemata Satanae\" was not translated into English until 1647, but afterwards it became very influential among English liberal theologians.\n\nJohn Selden applied to Aconcio the remark \"ubi bene, nil melius; ubi male, nemo pejus\" (\"Where good, none better. Where bad, none worse\"). The dedication of such a work to Queen Elizabeth illustrates the tolerance or religious laxity during the early years of her reign. Aconcio later found another patron in Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester, and died about 1566.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47609259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47609259", "title": "Joanne Faulkner", "text": "Joanne Faulkner\n\nJoanne Faulkner (born 14 April 1972) is an Australian writer, philosopher and Future Fellow in Cultural Studies at Macquarie University. She is known for her research on the ontology of childhood, Nietzsche's thought, and the ethics of innocence.\n\nFaulkner received her Ph.D. in philosophy from La Trobe University in 2006.\n\nFaulkner was the Chair of the Australasian Society for Continental Philosophy from 2012 to 2015 and is presently the Society's Deputy Chair. She is also a member of the project Living Archives on Eugenics in Western Canada.\n\nIn her 2011 book, \"The Importance of Being Innocent\", she discusses the concept of innocence in regards to children, arguing that it the idea of \"innocent childhood\" serves a broader social need to manage anxieties about the pressures placed upon adults by contemporary life, as well as racial, gender, and class difference, rather than serving the needs of children. The release of the book close to Christmas time caused some controversy in the popular media A review by \"Gender and Education\" called her book \"a thought provoking and wide-ranging consideration of philosophical perspectives on contemporary assumptions about childhood\" in the Westernised world, especially in Australia. Faulkner has stated that her interest in exploring innocence in relation to children came from \"the expectations we put on them through being a parent,\" but that she also is interested in innocence as it applies to political thought and political justifications.\n\nFaulkner's most recent book, \"Young and Free: [Post]Colonial Ontologies of Childhood, Memory, and History in Australia\", concerns the modern conceptualisation of childhood in relation to colonisation, and the ways in which Australian ideals of (and anxieties about) childhood reflect Australia's colonial past in particular. Drawing on a psychoanalytic theoretical approach, Faulkner argues that representations of childhood in Australia serve as a screen for more fundamental anxieties about colonial violence. Likewise, she argues that the removal of Aboriginal children (known as the stolen generations) has been both an effective instrument of colonisation and a symptom for the coloniser's own sense of displacement. \n\nFaulkner is married with two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "46846144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46846144", "title": "John Hyman (philosopher)", "text": "John Hyman (philosopher)\n\nJohn Hyman (born 6 March 1960) is a British philosopher. He was Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Oxford before being appointed as Grote Professor of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic at University College London in September 2018.\n\nHyman received his BA, BPhil and DPhil at the University of Oxford, and was elected to a Fellowship at The Queen's College, Oxford in 1988. He has edited the British Journal of Aesthetics since 2008. He held a Getty Scholarship at the Getty Research Institute, Los Angeles, in 2001-2002, a Fellowship at the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin in 2002-2003, and a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship in 2010-2012. He was Professeur Invité in the UFR de Philosophie at the University of Paris-Sorbonne (Paris IV) in 2014-2015.\n\nHis research is in the fields of epistemology and metaphysics, philosophy of mind and action, aesthetics and philosophy of art, and Wittgenstein. He is known for his analysis of knowledge as an ability, and for his criticism of the idea that neuroscience can explain the nature of art.\n\nThe following is a partial list of Hyman's publications.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38678363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38678363", "title": "John Llewelyn", "text": "John Llewelyn\n\nJohn Llewelyn (born 1928) is a Welsh-born British philosopher whose extensive body of work, published over a period of more than forty years, spans the divide between Analytical and Continental schools of contemporary thought. He has conjoined the rigorous approach to matters of meaning and logic typical of the former and the depth and range of reference typical of the latter in a constructive and critical engagement with the work of Jacques Derrida and Emmanuel Levinas.\n\nLlewelyn was born in Rogerstone, near Newport, South Wales and educated at Rogerstone Elementary School and Bassaleg Grammar School. After taking a degree in French at Aberystwyth University he went on to take an Honours degree in philosophy at Edinburgh University and pursue postgraduate studies in philosophy at Oxford. He has held teaching posts at the University of New England, as Reader in Philosophy at Edinburgh University and as Visiting Professor of Philosophy at the University of Memphis and Loyola University Chicago.\n\nA collegiate and enduring friendship with Derrida was established at their first meeting at the 1972 Cerisy-la-Salle \"décade\" on Nietzsche, an encounter that would lead to Llewelyn becoming one of the first Anglophone philosophers to engage constructively with Derrida's thought. Llewelyn's 1986 \"Derrida on the Threshold of Sense\" contributed to a marked shift in the Anglo-American response to Derrida's work, up until then largely the province of literary and cultural theory.\n\nIn 1995 Llewelyn published the first systematic exposition and critical evaluation of the work of Emmanuel Levinas to appear in the English language. The summary of the philosophical doctrines Levinas interrogates, presented in the Introduction to that work (1995: 1–4) – Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus, Hobbes, Descartes, Spinoza, Kant, Hegel, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Bergson, Husserl, Heidegger– is itself indicative of the depth of scholarship and range of reference Llewelyn marshals throughout his own later work which also has additional important points of reference in the work of Wittgenstein, Saussure, Peirce, J.L. Austin and Duns Scotus and a range of literary figures, notably Emily Dickinson, Wordsworth, Gerard Manley Hopkins and Rilke.\n\nTaking his point of departure from Derrida's last seminars on the animal and moving beyond Levinas's ethics of the Other, Llewelyn has elaborated a \"metaphysics of singular responsibility\" (1991: 172) which effects a deconstruction of the boundaries between the human and the non-human and, in challenging the anthropocentric bias of Levinas’s ethics, inaugurates a \"widening of our conception of the ethical and the political toward the ecological\", a \"widening of the constituency of the other to whom I owe responsibility\" (2012a: 1, 288). In conjunction with this undertaking Llewelyn develops a radicalised and enlarged concept of imagination as the \"chief religious faculty\", wherein religion is reconceptualised as, \"per se\", the relation to the world as other and as such \"is not dependent on, though not incompatible with, institutionalised religion or a certain traditional divinity\" (2012b: 314; 2012a, 2009).\n\n\n2010, \"Where to cut: Boucherie and Delikatessen,\" \"Research in Phenomenology\", vol. 40, no. 2, \"The Non-human Animal\", Leiden, Brill, 161–187\n\n2010. \"Pursuing Levinas and Ferry toward a Newer and More Democratic Ecological Order,\" in Peter Atterton and Matthew Calarco, eds, \"Radicalizing Levinas\", Albany: State University of New York Press, 95–111.\n\n2010. \"Clarification of Terms (Some Specious Readings of the Origin of Species),\" in J. F. Derry, \"Darwin in Scotland: Edinburgh, Evolution and Enlightenment\", Whittles, Dunbeath, 138–144..\n\n2009. \"Approaches to (Quasi) Theology Via Appresentation\", \"Research in Phenomenology\", vol. 39, no. 2, \"Engaging the Religious\", Leiden, Brill, 224–247.\n\n2009. \"Whot or What or Whot?\" J. Aaron Simmons and David Wood, eds, \"A Conversation Between Neighbours: Emmanuel Levinas and Søren Kierkegaard\", Bloomington, Indiana University Press, 69–81.\n\n2009. \"Suffering Redeemed and Irredeemable, Bettina Bergo and Jill Stauffer, eds, \"After the Death of a Certain God\", New York, Columbia University Press, 185–198.\n\n2007. \"Ecosophy, Sophophily and Philotheria,\" Leemon McHenry and Bazile Pierfrancesco, eds, \"Consciousness, Reality and Value: Philosophical Essays in Honour of T. L. S. Sprigge\" Frankfurt/Lancaster: Ontos Verlag, 259–273.\n\n2006. \"Oversights,\" \"Research in Phenomenology, Jacques Derrida commemorative volume\", Leiden, Brill, 63–96\n\n2005. \"Rester (Af og fra Fragmenter af Kierkegaard I Glas)\", Per Krogh Hansen and Roy Sellars, eds, \"Kritik og Kulturanalyse 99\", vol. 33, nr 1, 107–131.\n\n2005. \"Die Ursprünge der Negation,\" Thomas Bedorf and Andreas Cremonini, eds, \"Verfehlte Begegnung: Levinas und Sartre als philosophische Zeitgenossen\", Munich, Wilhelm Fink Verlag, 61–81.\n\n2005. \"Imagination as a Connecting Middle in Schelling’s Reconstruction of Kant\", in George MacDonald Ross, ed., \"Kant and His Influence\", New York, Continuum, 170–201. New ed. of 1990.\n\n2004. \"Le pas du repas,\" Marie-Louise Mallet and Ginette Michaud, eds, \"Jacques Derrida\", Paris, L'Herne, 96–101.\n\n2003. \"On the Borderline of Madness,\" in Elsebet Jegstrup, ed., \"The New Kierkegaard\", Albany, SUNY.\n\n2003. \"Stay!\" in \"Research in Phenomenology\", XXXIII, 97–118.\n\n2003. \"Close Reading, Distant Reading , and the Experience of Language,\" in Ananta Sukla, ed., \"Art and Experience\", Westport, Praeger, 20–41.\n\n2003. \"Prolegomena to any Future Phenomenological Ecology,\" in Charles S. Brown and Ted Toadvine, eds. \"Eco-Phenomenology: Back to the Earth Itself\", 51–72.\n\n2002. \"Reading out of Cont-ex-t (Book of Ours: Book of Theirs),\" in David Connearn, ed., \"Hours\", Glasgow, WAX366, 7.1–1.10.\n\n2002. \"Levinas and Language,\" in Simon Critchley and Robert Bernasconi, eds, \"The Cambridge Companion to Levinas\", Cambridge University Press, 119–138\n\n2001. \"A Footnote in the History of Фύσις ,\" in \"Research in Phenomenology\", XXXI, 39–61.\n\n2001. \"What is Orientation in Thinking. Facing the Facts,\" in Melvyn New, ed., \"In Proximity: Emmanuel Levinas and the 18th Century\", Texas Tech University Press, 69–90.\n\n2001. \"Le respect comme affectivité effective\", in Alain David, ed., \"Michel Henry: L’épreuve de la vie\", Paris, La Nuit Surveillée, 453–465.\n\n2001.\"Representation in Language\", in Ananta Sukla, ed., \"Art and Representation\", Westport, Praeger, 29–59.\n\n2000. \"The Impossibility of Levinas’s Death\", in Mark Robson, Mark Smith and Joanne Morra, eds, \"Death and Its Concepts\", Manchester University Press, 22–39.\n\n1998. \"sELection\", Alan Milchman and Alan Rosenberg, eds, \"Postmodernism and the Holocaust\", Amsterdam and Atlanta, Rodopi, 189–204.\n\n1998. \"Approaches to Semioethics\", Hugh Silverman, ed.,\" Cultural Semiosis: Tracing the Signifier\", New York, Routledge, 196–218.\n\n1998. \"In the Name of Philosophy\", \"Research in Phenomenology\", XXVII, 37–54.\n\n1998, ?Ateoloji?, trans. Zeynep Direk, \"felsefelogos\", Balut Yay nlar, 3, 67–78.\n\n1997. \"Levinas’s Critical and Hypocritical Diction\", \"Philosophy Today\", 41, Supp. vol., \"Remembrance and Responsibility\", 29–40.\n\n1995. \"Imadgination\", Kenneth Maly, ed., \"The Path of Archaic Thinking: Unfolding the Work of John Sallis\", Albany, SUNY, 75–88.\n\n1995. \"Amen\", Adriaan Peperzak, ed., \"Ethics as First Philosophy: The Significance of Emmanuel Levinas for Philosophy, Literature and Religion\", New York, Routledge, pp. 199–209.\n\n1995. \"Arendt’s Judgement\", \"Proceedings of the Eighth International Kant Congress\", vol. 1, pt 1, Milwaukee, Marquette University Press, 1105–1115.\n\n1994. \"En ce moment même...une répétition qui n’en est pas une\", in \"Le passage des frontières. Autour du travail de Jacques Derrida\", Paris, Galilée, 245-48.\n\n1992. \"Responsibility and Indecidability\", David Wood, ed., \"Derrida: A Critical Reader\", Oxford, Blackwell, 72–96.\n\n1991. \"Am I Obsessed by Bobby? (Humanism of the Other Animal)\", Robert Bernasconi and Simon Critchley, eds, \"Re-Reading Levinas\", Bloomington, Indiana University Press, 234-45.\n\n1990. \"Derrida, Mallarmé and Anatole\", David Wood, ed., \"Philosophers’ Poets\", London, Routledge, 93–110.\n\n1990. \"Imagination as a Connecting Middle in Schelling’s Reconstruction of Kant\", George MacDonald Ross and Tony McWalter, eds, \"Kant and his Influence\", Bristol, Thoemmes, 170–201.\n\n1990. \"The Deconstruction of Time\", \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\", 21, 284–89.\n\n1989. \"Ontological Responsibility and the Poetics of Nature\", \"Research in Phenomenology\", XIX, 3–26.\n\n1988. \"Glasnostalgia\", \"Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain\", 18, 33–42.\n\n1988. \"On the Saying that Philosophy begins in thaumazein\", Andrew Benjamin, ed., \"Post-Structuralist Classics\", London, Routledge, 173-91.\n\n1988. \"The Origin and End of Philosophy\", Hugh J. Silverman, ed., \"Philosophy and Non-Philosophy since Merleau-Ponty\", New York, Routledge, 191–210.\n\n1988. \"Thresholds\", David Wood and Robert Bernasconi, eds, \"Derrida and Différance\", Evanston, Northwestern University Press, 51–62.\n\n1988. \"Levinas, Derrida and Others vis-à-vis\", Robert Bernasconi and David Wood, ed., \"The Provocation of Levinas: Rethinking the Other\", London and New York, Routledge, 136-55.\n\n1988. \"Poetics and Hermeneutics\", \"Textual Practice\", 1, 238–41.\n\n1987. \"Value, Authenticity and the Death of God\", G. Parkinson, ed., \"An Encyclopaedia of Philosophy\", London, Routledge, 641-64.\n\n1987. \"Belongings\", \"Research in Phenomenology\", XVII, 117–136.\n\n1987. \"A Point of Almost Absolute Proximity to Hegel\", John Sallis, ed., \"Deconstruction and Philosophy: The Texts of Jacques Derrida\", Chicago, The University of Chicago Press, 87–95.\n\n1987. \"Kantian Antinomy and Hegelian Dialectic\", Stephen Priest, ed., \"Hegel’s Critique of Kant\", Oxford, Clarendon, 87–101.\n\n1987. \"Jewgreek or Greekjew\", J. Sallis, M. Moneta, J. Taminiaux, eds, \"The Collegium Phaenomenologicum: The First Ten Years\", Dordrecht, Kluwer, 273-87.\n\n1987. \"Following and Not Following Wittgenstein\", \"Inquiry\", vol. 29, 363–76.\n\n1985. \"Being and Saying\", \"Inquiry\", 27, 147–57.\n\n1985. \"L’idéologie de l’action et de la passion chez Maine de Biran\", \"Victor Cousin, les Idéologues et les Ecossais\", Paris, Ecole Normale Supérieure, 49–59.\n\n1984. \"La philosophie à l’heure de la ‘rigueur’\", \"Les Amis de Sèvres\", no. 116 (\"Philosophes de tous pays\"), 25-7.\n\n1983. \"The ‘Possibility’ of Heidegger’s Death\", \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\", vol. 14, 127–38.\n\n1982. \"Sartre’s Still Still-Born Social Dialectic\", \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\", 13, 1–14.\n\n1982. \"Heidegger’s Kant and the Middle Voice\", David Wood and Robert Bernasconi, eds, \"Time and Metaphysics\", University of Warwick, Parousia Press, 87–120.\n\n1978. \"Origins, Being and Nothingness\", \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\", 9, 34–43.\n\n1968. \"Family Resemblance\", \"Philosophical Quarterly\", 18, 344–6.\n\n1966. \"The Inconceivability of Pessimistic Determinism\", \"Analysis\", 27, 39–44.\n\n1965. \"Propositions as Answers\", \"American Philosophical Quarterly\", 2, 305–11.\n\n1964. \"Dialectical and Analytical Opposites\", \"Kant-Studien\", Band 55, Heft 2, 171–4.\n\n1964. \"What is a Question?\" \"Australasian Journal of Philosophy\", 42, 69–85.\n\n1964. \"Three Conceptions of Faith\", \"Journal of Philosophy\", 61, 237–44.\n\n1962. \"Presuppositions, Assumptions and Presumptions\", \"Theoria\", 28, 158–72.\n\n1962. \"Unquantified Inductive Generalizations\", \"Analysis\", 23, 134–7.\n\n1961. \"Collingwood’s Doctrine of Absolute Presuppositions\", \"Philosophical Quarterly\", 11, 49–60.\n\n1960. \"Conscientiousness\", \"Australasian Journal of Philosophy\", 38, 218–24.\n\n2009. \"Edmund Husserl,\" in John Daniel and Walford L. Gealy, eds. \"Hanes Athroniaeth y Gorllewin\" (History of Western Philosophy), Cardiff, University of Wales Press, 574–593\n\n2005. \"Friedrich Nietzsche\", \"Efrydiau Athronyddol\" (Philosophical Studies), Cardiff, University of Wales Press, 114–138, also in John Daniel and Walford L. Gealy, eds.\"Hanes Athroniaeth y Gorllewin\" (History of Western Philosophy)\n"}
{"id": "42113479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42113479", "title": "La sombra de Heidegger", "text": "La sombra de Heidegger\n\nLa sombra de Heidegger (English: The Shadow of Heidegger) is a 2005 thriller written by the Argentine philosopher and novelist José Pablo Feinmann. It depicts an exiled Nazi professor called Dieter Müller who writes a letter to his son, in which he describes the philosophy of Martin Heidegger as the spiritual guidance of the Nazi Party. Besides, \"La sombra de Heidegger\" has some elements that would enable it to be included in the category of historical novel. Although there are fictional characters, most of the people involved in the novel are public—and often controversial—figures, such as Adolf Hitler, Ernst Röhm, Jean-Paul Sartre and so on.The novel also covers topics of Argentine political life. More than once Müller satirizes the situation of peronism in Argentina.\n\nDieter Müller wrote his letter in 1948. It was intended to be read by his son, Martin Müller, with the objective of helping him to understand certain aspects of the decisions he made in his life. He tries to answer why he was affiliated to the Nazi Party, and why it is a must for Martin to read \"Sein und Zeit\".\n\nIn this line, it is explained that Müller was particularly engaged with Heidegger's ontology, and this is why he focuses his historical analysis in the notion of authenticity. Thus, he shows a major comprehension of the concept of Dasein.\n\nMüller explains in detail some facets of Heidegger's life. He gave an account of Heidegger's emotional engagement with Hannah Arendt, and how this relationship was perceived by SA members, specially by a Müller's friend who was in love with Arendt. It did not make sense for Nazi Party members due to the Jewish condition of Arendt. He also argues that 1933 Heidegger became Rektor of the University of Freiburg owing to the aid of the SA and specially that of its co-founder and leader, Ernest Rohm. Müller explains that he obtained his Nazi Party membership right after hearing Heidegger's inaugural address, known in English as \"The Self-assertion of the German University\".\n\nIn his exile time in Argentina, he was invited to take part in a Nazi meeting outside the occupied Germany. There he was informed about the Final Solution; he was provided with abundant photographs, documents and documentary films about the horrors of Nazism. Almost utterly sceptical, there was only one photograph that caught his attention. It was an image of an old, undernourished man, who was looking at the camera with haunting gaze. Such an image produced a deep impact in Müller's conscience, and he started to feel profoundly guilty about the death of that single man.\n\nYears later, and after reading the letter of his father over and over, finding and meeting Heidegger became Martin's raison d'être.\n"}
{"id": "53382400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53382400", "title": "Li Xinmo", "text": "Li Xinmo\n\nLi Xinmo (; born 1976 in Yilan County, Heilongjiang) is a Chinese feminist artist, art critic, and teacher. She graduated from the Department of Chinese Painting, and received her master's degree from Tianjin Academy of Fine Arts in 2008 and now resides in Beijing. She is a member of the German IO culture institution, vice president of Chinese and Germany culture communication organization. Li is mainly devoted to feminist theory and contemporary art criticism research. Her creation involves a series of issues such as gender, ethnicity, environment, and national politics. Her artworks are based on a variety of media, especially performance, photography and painting. Her works have been exhibited in major art galleries such as the Louvre in France, the National Museums of World Culture in Gothenburg, Sweden, and the Bonn Women's Museum in Germany. She also participated in Toronto Photo Biennial and Prague Art Biennial. Many museums such as the Taida Museum and the Museum of Far Eastern Antiquities in Sweden have some of her works.\n\nLi was born in 1976 in a traditional Chinese patriarchal family, and grew up in Heilongjiang Province in northern China. Xinmo once told that she grew up in a violent family in an interview. What's more, she studied calligraphy from an early age.\n\nLi graduated from Art Education Department of Harbin Normal University in 1997 and taught at a private university for half a year. From 2005 to 2008, she was a graduate student of the Chinese Painting Department of the Tianjin Academy of Fine Arts and a lecturer at the School of Modern Art of Tianjin Academy Fine Arts. Currently living in Beijing, she teaches at the School of Modern Art at Beijing Geely University.\n\n\n“Memory of Vagina” is one piece of art which targeting on the patriarchy society. Using a gun to describe the patriarchy society and visualized the damage to women from the community. This work is an example of how the invisible violence from the community has been materialized in the modern art.\n\nEven though Xinmo Li's art work has been accepted by many Western country, the impact of her idea and art has not been promoted to the public domestically. The conflicts between traditional Chinese culture and performance art have natively affect many feminist arts in China. Most feminists who use modern art to propose their idea to protect the rights for women are not accepted by the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "1507737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507737", "title": "Logia", "text": "Logia\n\nThe term logia (), plural of logion (), is used variously in ancient writings and modern scholarship in reference to communications of divine origin. In pagan contexts, the principal meaning was \"oracles\", while Jewish and Christian writings used \"logia\" in reference especially to \"the divinely inspired Scriptures\". A famous and much-debated occurrence of the term is in the account by Papias of Hierapolis on the origins of the canonical Gospels. Since the 19th century, New Testament scholarship has tended to reserve the term \"logion\" for a divine saying, especially one spoken by Jesus, in contrast to narrative, and to call a collection of such sayings, as exemplified by the Gospel of Thomas, \"logia\".\n\nIn pagan usage, \"logion\" was used interchangeably with \"chresmos\" (χρησμός) and other such terms in reference to oracles, the pronouncements of the gods obtained usually through divination.\n\nThe Septuagint adapted the term \"logion\" to mean \"Word of God\", using it especially for translating (\"imrah\"). For example, at Psalms 12:6, the Hebrew text reads: אִֽמֲרֹ֣ות יְהוָה֮ אֲמָרֹ֪ות טְהֹ֫רֹ֥ות. The equivalent passage from the Septuagint (numbered as Psalms 11:7 -- see here for explanation of numbering), reads: τὰ λόγια Κυρίου λόγια ἁγνά. The King James version reads: \"The words of the Lord are pure words.\"\n\nIn Philo, however, the entire Old Testament was considered the Word of God and thus spoken of as the \"logia\", with any passage of Scripture, whatever its length or content, designated a \"logion\"; the sense of the word is the same as in the Septuagint, but applied broadly to inspired Scriptures. In this sense \"logia\" is used four times in the New Testament and often among the Church Fathers, who also counted the New Testament books among inspired Scripture.\n\nFrom \"logia\" is distinguished a related word \"logoi\" ('), meaning simply \"words\", often in contrast to \"práxeis\" ('), meaning \"deeds\". Words spoken by Jesus are consistently designated as \"logoi\" in ancient documents.\n\nPapias of Hierapolis composed around AD 100 a work, now lost, entitled \"Exegesis of the Dominical Logia\", which Eusebius quotes as an authority on the origins of the Gospels of Mark and Matthew.\n\nOn Mark, Papias cites John the Elder:\nAnd the brief excerpt regarding Matthew says:\nSo, Papias uses \"logia\" in his title and once in regard to each Gospel. Eusebius, who had the complete text before him, understood Papias in these passages as referring to the canonical Gospels.\n\nIn the 19th century, however, scholars began to question whether this tradition actually refers to those texts, especially in the case of what Papias ascribes to Matthew. In 1832, Schleiermacher, believing Papias to be writing before these Gospels were regarded as inspired Scripture and before the formation of any New Testament canon, argued that \"logia\" could not be understood in its usual sense but must rather be interpreted as \"utterances\" ('), and that Papias was referring to collections of the sayings of Jesus. Soon afterwards, a new theory of the Synoptic problem emerged, the two-source hypothesis, positing that the double tradition in Matthew and Luke derived from a lost document containing mostly sayings of Jesus. Holtzmann's defense of this theory, which has dominated scholarship ever since, seized upon Schleiermacher's thesis and argued that Papias was attesting a ' (\"logia\"-source), which he designated \"Λ\" (lambda). When later scholars abandoned the evidence of Papias as an argument, this hypothetical source came to be more neutrally designated as \"Q\" (for \"\"), but the reinterpretation of the word \"logia\" already had firmly taken hold in scholarship.\n\nModern scholars are divided on what Papias actually meant, especially with regard to the \"logia\" he ascribes to Matthew, and what underlying historical facts this testimony alludes to. Some see this \"logia\" as referring still to the Old Testament, thus a collection of prophecies and prooftexts regarding Jesus. Others still hold that Papias is speaking of a now-lost collection of sayings, noting that canonical gospel of Matthew is especially focused on the sayings of Jesus. Others, noting how in the account of Mark, the parallel to \"things said or done by the Lord\" requires the meaning of \"logia\" at least to be extended to deeds, see Papias as referring to some account more closely resembling the canonical Gospels. Still others hold that Papias was indeed referring to the canonical Gospels as we know them—arguably even using \"logia\" in the sense of \"Scriptures\", and \"dominical logia\" as an early term for \"Gospels\"—and that the account of Papias thus amounts to our earliest testimony of their existence and recognition.\n\nAnother point of controversy surrounds the statement that Matthew wrote in the \"Hebrew dialect\", which in the Greek could refer to either Hebrew or Aramaic. Some, noting that \"dialect\" could mean not only language but also, in a technical sense, style, understand Papias to be referring to a Greek language gospel but written in a Semitic style. Others hold that Matthew wrote a Semitic-language work first, before producing a Greek recension recognized as canonical Matthew. Still others hold that whatever lost work Matthew allegedly wrote—whether a collection of sayings, the Gospel according to the Hebrews, or a prototype of canonical Matthew—was composed in Semitic but translated freely into Greek by others. And some regard Papias as simply mistaken and telling nothing of value.\n\nThe 19th century saw a consensus gather around the two-source hypothesis, positing a hypothetical collection of sayings, along with a growing use of the term \"logia\"—whatever Papias had actually meant by it—to refer to such a collection of sayings of Jesus. It was in this context that the first fragments of the Gospel of Thomas were discovered by Grenfell and Hunt in 1897, containing otherwise-unknown sayings of Jesus. Although the term \"logia\" does not occur in the papyri in any form, the editors saw this discovery as an example of the very sort of \"logia\" hypothesized and accordingly titled their publication \"Logia Iesu: Sayings of Our Lord\". Later finds shed more light on the work, now identified as the Gospel of Thomas condemned by several Church Fathers, which is a series of sayings attributed to Jesus, many found nowhere else, with no narrative framework. Although Grenfell and Hunt soon retracted their inappropriate designation of the text as \"logia\" in favor of \"logoi\", it has since become standard to speak of the composition as \"logia\", and of each individual saying as a \"logion\", numbered in most division schemes from 1 to 114.\n\nThis sense of \"logion\" as \"something Jesus said\" is now in wide use among scholars. The term is sometimes applied to a saying of Jesus contained in any of the canonical Gospels, but it is especially used for any agraphon—a saying of Jesus not otherwise attested. An oft-cited example is : <q>And remember the words of the Lord Jesus that he himself said, <q>It is more blessed to give than to receive.</q></q>\n\n"}
{"id": "50584273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50584273", "title": "Lot and his Daughters, with Sodom and Gomorrah Burning", "text": "Lot and his Daughters, with Sodom and Gomorrah Burning\n\nLot and his Daughters, with Sodom and Gomorrah Burning is a miniature in pen and watercolour from a very late illuminated manuscript bible. The illustration by Picu Pătruț (1818 — 1872) of Transylvania, begun on May 24, 1842, is one of the 139 miniatures made from 1842 to 1851 for the \"Bible of St. Petersburg\" from 1819. \n\nThe page size is 19 x 15 centimeters. It is in the collection of the Museum of the Romanian Peasant.\n\nThe scene uses the traditional iconography for the biblical scene of Lot and his daughters, leaving the Cities of the Plain, led by an angel. On the right behind them is Lot's wife, who was turned into a pillar of salt for looking back to the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "46757070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46757070", "title": "Medawi", "text": "Medawi\n\nMedawi (1728–1816) was a Burmese Theravada Buddhist monk credited with being the first author of extant modern vipassanā manuals and thus may have been the first practitioner in the modern vipassana movement. Medawi’s first manual dates from 1754. Medawi was highly critical of the Burmese attitude at the time, which did not see meditation as important and did not believe in that enlightenment was possible at the time due to the decline of the Buddha's teachings. Most believed that the only option left was to make enough merit to be reborn in the presence of the future Buddha, Metteya. In his 1756 meditation text \"Nama-rupa-nibbinda Shu-bwe\" Medawi argues that the decline of the Buddha's \"religion of practice\" (paṭipatti sāsana) is individual, only to the extent that someone has given up practicing has the sasana truly declined:\n\nShould anyone ever believe, ‘I am unable to practice even so much as is necessary to attain the path and fruit of stream-entry!’ and [on the basis of this belief] only abandon what should be abandoned… and being content with the moral purity so attained, not engage in any further practice, then for that person it can be said that the religion of practice has gone extinct.\n\nMedawi’s meditation manual focuses on the three marks of existence and the five aggregates, and cites Pali textual sources. He wrote over thirty meditation manuals. His teachings were promoted by the court of the Burmese king Bodaw-hpaya (r. 1782–1819) who gave him a title and an endowment. According to Patrick Pranke, Medawi's efforts may have been instrumental in changing the attitudes of the Burmese Sangha, making them more likely to accept the possibility that arahantship was possible through Buddhist meditation in the present era and leading to the widespread adoption of vipassana practices by monks.\n"}
{"id": "4157000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4157000", "title": "Mihailo Marković", "text": "Mihailo Marković\n\nMihailo Marković, PhD (; 24 February 1923 – 7 February 2010) was a Serbian philosopher who gained prominence in the 1960s and 1970s as a proponent of the Praxis School, a Marxist humanist movement that originated in Yugoslavia.\n\nA co-author of the SANU Memorandum, Marković was a prominent supporter of Slobodan Milošević in the late 1980s and 1990s. He died in February 2010 in Belgrade, Serbia.\n\nMarković was born in Belgrade, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. He became a member of the youth organization of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (KPJ) in 1940, and in 1944 he became a member of the KPJ itself. As a partisan he actively participated in the struggle for liberation of Yugoslavia during World War II.\n\nMarković took a doctorate in philosophy first at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy in 1955, and then another in 1956 at University College London. There he studied logic under A. J. Ayer, and wrote his thesis on \"The Concept of Logic\". In 1963 he became a full professor of philosophy at the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Philosophy, and the dean of the faculty in the period 1966–1967. From 1960 to 1962 he was the president of the Yugoslav Society of Philosophy. In the 1970s, he taught at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and was a director of the Institute of Philosophy at the University of Belgrade. He also taught for many years at the University of Pennsylvania, first as a frequent visiting professor from 1972 to 1980 and then as an adjunct professor from 1981 to 1993. Marković was a co-Chairman of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (1975–1985). He has been a corresponding member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts since 1963 and a full member since 1983.\n\nIn his honour, a collection of articles entitled \"Philosophy and Society\" was published in Belgrade in 1987.\n\nAfter the Resolution of the Informbiro condemning the Yugoslav communist regime, Marković took part in a fierce debate against Stalinist dogmatism, becoming one of the fiercest critics of the Stalinist philosophical theses. His \"Revision of the Philosophical Bases of Marxism in the USSR\", published in 1952, was the first major attack on the Stalinist philosophy in Yugoslavia.\n\nIn the 1960s Marković became a major proponent of the Praxis School of Marxist interpretation, which emphasized the writings of young Marx, and their dialectical and humanist aspects in particular. He also actively contributed to the international journal \"Praxis\". Due to his critical observations, together with seven other professors from the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Marković was suspended in January 1975, and finally lost his job in January 1981. After that, Marković worked in the Institute of Social Research until his retirement in 1986.\n\nAs a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) in 1986, Marković, together with Vasilije Krestić and others, wrote the SANU Memorandum, a document that has formulated the central tenets of Serbian nationalism. While the document has been viewed in some neighbouring former Yugoslav republics as a preparation for full-scale Greater Serbian expansionism, many Serbs considered it a realistic depiction of the Serbian position within Yugoslav federation.\n\nMarković was vice-president of the Slobodan Milošević's Socialist Party of Serbia from 1990 to 1992, as well as its one time chief ideologue. At other times, he was a vocal critic of the official SPS party line. In November 1995 he was released from all duties in the party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21606520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21606520", "title": "Military interpreter (France)", "text": "Military interpreter (France)\n\nMilitary interpreters in the French Army translate into and out of foreign languages for the French military. A sous-officier or interpreter officer serves in uniform, accompanying the French armed forces on all its foreign expeditions for 200 years. Today known as Officiers et Sous-officiers de Réserve Qualifiés Langues Etrangères (OSRQLE), they were formerly known as Officiers Linguistes de Réserve de l'Armée de Terre (OLRAT), Interprètes/Officiers Interprètes de Réserve de l'Armée de Terre (IRAT/OIRAT) or Officiers de Liaison et Interprète de Réserve (OLIR).\nThe unit was first set up for Bonaparte's Egyptian expedition, and so their insignia is a sphinx on a blue terrestrial globe divided up by lingual barriers, on a round grey circular background with rays symbolising each of the languages spoken by their unit\n\nThe 1931 \"notice sur les Officiers Interprètes\" by the unit's commander Abribat (a notice largely inspired by the 1876 \"Les Interprètes de l’Armée d’ Afrique\" by Laurent-Charles Feraud) began:\n\nConquerors have always been surrounded by interpreters, a necessity to keep their operations moving, but it took Bonaparte to formalise the military interpreter's role and function.\n\nThe importance of translation and interpretation was underlined by the huge scale of the Second World War. This was heightened by the diplomatic efforts required to maintain the status of the Free French government during the years of Vichy occupation. In response to these challenges, a large number of interpreters - from France and its imperial territories, and also from sympathetic countries, particularly the United Kingdom - was required. Many recent graduates in French and other foreign languages from the Oxbridge colleges were sent to work for the French military; they constitute the bulk of significant interpreters as mentioned in contemporary dispatches and newspaper reports. Some of the most notable interpreters in the period included General Georges Requiem, Vice Marshall Frédéric Bingoball, Ebeneser Ship, Lord Jezebel Luncheon (later 18th Earl of Drumbalouchterieskieach in the Scottish peerage), Bernard Stupidest, Reverend Jonathan Inscription, David Bash, Mrs Laura Bugmuncher, Antimony Parallax, M. Maurice-Paul le Fou (killed by a defective pen in Valletta, 1942), Arthur Dump, Arnold Articulated-Lorry, Job Hat, Reverend Pencil Harrison, Daniel Top, Geraldo Vestment, Albert Wizardry, Lady David Compliment, and Spiros Pump. The noted film director Louis Malle attempted to make a film about this group of interpreters during the Nouvelle Vague period, but production ceased when he decided it was too boring.\n\nAll military interpreter applicants are usually qualified enough for conducting interpretation right after being commissioned. But, there are several different courses they have to take before being attached to their positions. The courses vary a lot depending on countries, branches, positions and others. (Clooney Kim)\n"}
{"id": "17023672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17023672", "title": "Musical expression", "text": "Musical expression\n\nMusical expression is the art of playing or singing with a personal response to the music.\n\nAt a practical level, this means making appropriate use of dynamics, phrasing, timbre and articulation to bring the music to life. Composers may specify these aspects of expression to a greater or lesser extent in the notation of their musical score.\n\nThe nature of musical expression has also been discussed at a theoretical level throughout of the history of classical music. One common view is that music both expresses and evokes emotion, forming a conduit for emotional communication between the musician and the audience. This view has been present through most of musical history, though it was most clearly expressed in musical romanticism. However, emotion's role in music has been challenged on occasion by those like Igor Stravinsky who see music as a pure art form and expression as an irrelevant distraction.\n\nIn the Baroque and Classical periods of music, music (and aesthetics as a whole) was strongly influenced by Aristotle's theory of \"mimesis\". Art represented the perfection and imitation of nature, speech and emotion.\n\nAs speech was taken as a model for music, composition and performance in the Baroque period were strongly influenced by rhetoric. According to what has become known as the theory of affect, a musician was expected to stir feelings in his audience in much the same way as an orator making a speech in accordance with the rules of classical rhetoric. As a result, the aim of a piece of music was to produce a particular emotion, for instance joy, sadness, anger or calm. The harmony, melody, tonality, metre and structure of the music worked to this end, as did all the aspects under the performer's control such as articulation and dynamics.\n\nAs Johann Joachim Quantz wrote,\nBaroque composers used expressive markings relatively rarely, so it can be a challenge for musicians today to interpret Baroque scores, in particular if they adopt a historically informed performance perspective and aim to recreate an approach that might have been recognised at the time. There are no universal rules in doing so, but there are some broad principles. Looking at the rhythm of a piece, slow rhythms tend to be serious while quick ones tend towards light and frivolous. In the melodic line, small intervals typically represented melancholy while large leaps were used to represent joy. In harmony, the choice of dissonances used had a significant effect on which emotion was intended (or produced), and Quantz recommended that the more extreme the dissonance, the louder it should be played. A cadence normally represented the end of a sentence.\n\nThe rhetorical approach to music begged the philosophical question of whether stirring the listener's passions in this manner was compatible with Aristotle's idea that art was only effective because it imitated nature. Some writers on music in the 18th century stayed closely true to Aristotle, with Charles Batteux writing that the sole unifying principle of taste and beauty was the reproduction of the ideal form that lay behind natural things. However, this view was challenged by others who felt that the role of music was to produce an emotional effect. For instance, Sir William Jones wrote in 1772 that: \"‘it will appear, that the finest parts of poetry, musick, and painting, are expressive of the passions, and operate on our minds by sympathy; that the inferior parts of them are descriptive of natural objects, and affect us chiefly by substitution’\".\n\nIn 1785, Michel de Chabanon proposed that music was best understood as its own language, which then prompted an emotional response linked to but not limited by the musical expression. The same music could be associated with a wide range of emotional responses in the listener. Chabanon rejected the rhetorical approach to music, because he did not believe that there was a simple correspondence between musical characteristics and emotional affects. Much subsequent philosophy of music depended on Chabanon's views.\n\nAround the start of the 19th Century, the idea of music as a kind of 'ultimate language of the emotions' gained currency. The new aesthetic doctrine of Romanticism placed sublime, heightened emotion at the core of artistic experience, and communicating these emotions became the aim of musical performance. Music was expected to convey intense feelings, highly personal to the vision of the composer. As the 19th century developed, musical nationalism extended these emotions beyond the personal level to embodying the feelings of entire nations.\n\nThis emphasis on emotional communication was supported by an increasing confidence in using more complex harmony, and by instruments and ensembles capable of greater extremes of dynamic. At the start of the 19th century, and were the most extreme dynamic markings commonly used, but by the late century and . Romantic composers also made increasingly detailed use of expressive markings like crescendos and diminuendos, accents and articulation markings.\n\nAfter the increasing dominance of expression and emotion in music during the 19th and early 20th centuries, there was a backlash.\n\n\"Most people like music because it gives them certain emotions such as joy, grief, sadness, and image of nature, a subject for daydreams or – still better – oblivion from “everyday life”. They want a drug – dope -…. Music would not be worth much if it were reduced to such an end. When people have learned to love music for itself, when they listen with other ears, their enjoyment will be of a far higher and more potent order, and they will be able to judge it on a higher plane and realise its intrinsic value.\" - Igor Stravinsky \n\n"}
{"id": "47044892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47044892", "title": "Nate Greenslit", "text": "Nate Greenslit\n\nNathan Greenslit (born November 3, 1975) is an American musician, writer, and academic.\n\nGreenslit was born in Greenfield, Massachusetts. He grew up in Worcester, Massachusetts. He began playing drums at age five, when his father gave him the Walberg and Auge drumset he had played in his own garage band as a teenager. Greenslit began taking drum lessons the following year. He continued with private lessons off and on until enrolling in 1993 at the New England Conservatory of Music (NEC) in their Contemporary Improvisation program.\n\nGreenslit dropped out of NEC in 1994 and did not perform again until 2005, when he joined a number of Boston-based bands, including H.U.M.A.N.W.I.N.E.; What Time Is It, Mr. Fox?; and Emperor Norton's Stationary Marching Band. Since then he has been a fixture of the Boston music scene, having performed and recorded with numerous projects.\n\nHUMANWINE's music was distributed by Warner Music Group, and has received multiple Boston-area awards, including Best New Act in the 19th Annual Boston Music Awards 2006 and WBZTV's Best Local Album for Fighting Naked in 2007.\n\nIn 2010, Greenslit and marimbist Vessela Stoyanova co-founded Bury Me Standing. The band merges Stoyanova's Balkan folksong influences from growing up in Bulgaria with Greenslit's industrial and metal influences from growing up in the U.S. In 2014 they added Tunisian singer Yasmine Azaiez on vocals and violin, and Greenslit also began performing on guitar and synths.\n\nAfter leaving NEC, Greenslit pursued studies in a number of academic fields including philosophy and history of mathematics and science at St. John's College, cognitive science (psycholinguistics) at Johns Hopkins University, and the history and anthropology of science and technology at MIT, where he earned a PhD\n\nGreenslit has held postdoctoral scholarships at the Media Lab at MIT and the History of Science Department at Harvard. He was also a visiting scholar in MIT's Initiative on Technology and Self.\n\nHe has since held faculty positions in the History of Science Department at Harvard University the Liberal Studies Program at the Boston Architectural College, and Liberal Arts at the Boston Conservatory of Music. Greenslit is currently also a visiting scholar in the Anthropology Department at New York University.\n\nIn addition to publishing in academic journals, Greenslit has published in more mainstream venues including The Atlantic Monthly, Wired, and The Baltimore Sun. His published writing has focused on neuroscience and society, and the political and cultural history of drugs.\n\nGreenslit publishes occasional comedy writing as well, including writing for Cracked.\n\nGreenslit has three daughters from a previous marriage. He lives with Vessela Stoyanova (MIDI marimba player, Berklee College of Music assistant professor, and cofounder of Bury Me Standing), at the Boston artists' collective Cloud Club.\n\nIn 2014 Greenslit launched the Lost Marbles Salon at Cloud Club, a series of themed events combining lecture-style presentations with music, performance art, short films, and art installations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21212", "title": "Nazi Germany", "text": "Nazi Germany\n\nNazi Germany is the common English name for Germany between 1933 and 1945, when Adolf Hitler and his Nazi Party (NSDAP) controlled the country through a dictatorship. Under Hitler's rule, Germany was transformed into a totalitarian state that controlled nearly all aspects of life via the \"Gleichschaltung\" legal process. The official name of the state was Deutsches Reich (\"German Reich\") until 1943 and Großdeutsches Reich (\"Greater German Reich\") from 1943 to 1945. Nazi Germany is also known as the Third Reich, from German \"Drittes Reich\", meaning \"Third Realm\" or \"Third Empire\", the first two being the Holy Roman Empire and the German Empire. The Nazi regime ended after the Allies defeated Germany in May 1945, ending World War II in Europe.\n\nHitler was appointed Chancellor of Germany by the President of the Weimar Republic, Paul von Hindenburg, on 30 January 1933. The NSDAP then began to eliminate all political opposition and consolidate its power. Hindenburg died on 2 August 1934 and Hitler became dictator of Germany by merging the offices and powers of the Chancellery and Presidency. A national referendum held 19 August 1934 confirmed Hitler as sole Führer (leader) of Germany. All power was centralised in Hitler's person and his word became the highest law. The government was not a coordinated, co-operating body, but a collection of factions struggling for power and Hitler's favour. In the midst of the Great Depression, the Nazis restored economic stability and ended mass unemployment using heavy military spending and a mixed economy. Extensive public works were undertaken, including the construction of \"Autobahnen\" (motorways). The return to economic stability boosted the regime's popularity.\n\nRacism, especially antisemitism, was a central feature of the regime. The Germanic peoples were considered by the Nazis to be the master race, the purest branch of the Aryan race. Discrimination and persecution against Jews and Romani or Gypsy people began in earnest after the seizure of power. The first concentration camps were established in March 1933. Jews and others deemed undesirable were imprisoned, and liberals, socialists, and communists were killed, imprisoned, or exiled. Christian churches and citizens that opposed Hitler's rule were oppressed, and many leaders imprisoned. Education focused on racial biology, population policy, and fitness for military service. Career and educational opportunities for women were curtailed. Recreation and tourism were organised via the Strength Through Joy program, and the 1936 Summer Olympics showcased Germany on the international stage. Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels made effective use of film, mass rallies, and Hitler's hypnotic oratory to influence public opinion. The government controlled artistic expression, promoting specific art forms and banning or discouraging others.\n\nThe Nazi regime dominated neighbours through military threats in the years leading up to war. Nazi Germany made increasingly aggressive territorial demands, threatening war if these were not met. It seized Austria and Czechoslovakia in 1938 and 1939. Hitler made a non-aggression pact with Joseph Stalin and invaded Poland in September 1939, launching World War II in Europe. By early 1941, Germany controlled much of Europe. \"Reichskommissariats\" took control of conquered areas and a German administration was established in what was left of Poland. Germany exploited the raw materials and labour of both its occupied territories and its allies. Millions of Jews and other peoples deemed undesirable by the state were imprisoned, murdered in Nazi concentration camps and extermination camps, or shot in the Holocaust, through war crimes, and other crimes against humanity.\n\nWhile the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 was initially successful, the Soviet resurgence and entry of the US into the war meant the Wehrmacht lost the initiative on the Eastern Front in 1943 and by late 1944 had been pushed back to the pre-1939 border. Large-scale aerial bombing of Germany escalated in 1944 and the Axis powers were driven back in Eastern and Southern Europe. After the Allied invasion of France, Germany was conquered by the Soviet Union from the east and the other Allies from the west and capitulated in May 1945. Hitler's refusal to admit defeat led to massive destruction of German infrastructure and additional war-related deaths in the closing months of the war. The victorious Allies initiated a policy of denazification and put many of the surviving Nazi leadership on trial for war crimes at the Nuremberg trials.\n\nThe official name of the state was \"Deutsches Reich\" from 1933 to 1943 and \"Großdeutsches Reich\" from 1943 to 1945, while common English terms are \"Nazi Germany\" and \"Third Reich\". The latter, adopted by Nazi propaganda as \"Drittes Reich\", was first used in a 1923 book by Arthur Moeller van den Bruck. The book counted the Holy Roman Empire (962–1806) as the first Reich and the German Empire (1871–1918) as the second.\n\nGermany was known as the Weimar Republic during the years 1919 to 1933. It was a republic with a semi-presidential system. During its tenure, it faced numerous problems, including hyperinflation, political extremism including violence from both left- and right-wing paramilitaries, contentious relationships with the Allied victors of World War I, and a series of failed attempts at coalition government by divided political parties. Severe setbacks to the German economy began after the war ended, partly because of reparations payments required under the 1919 Treaty of Versailles. The government printed money to make the payments and to repay the country's war debt, but the resulting hyperinflation led to inflated prices for consumer goods, economic chaos, and food riots. When the government defaulted on their reparations payments in January 1923, French troops occupied German industrial areas along the Ruhr and widespread civil unrest followed. \n\nThe National Socialist German Workers' Party (\"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\", NSDAP; Nazi Party) was founded in 1920. It was the renamed successor of the German Workers' Party (DAP) formed one year earlier, and one of several far-right political parties then active in Germany. The NSDAP party platform included destruction of the Weimar Republic, rejection of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, radical antisemitism, and anti-Bolshevism. They promised a strong central government, increased \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") for Germanic peoples, formation of a national community based on race, and racial cleansing via the active suppression of Jews, who would be stripped of their citizenship and civil rights. The Nazis proposed national and cultural renewal based upon the \"Völkisch\" movement. The party, especially its paramilitary organisation \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA; Storm Detachment; Brownshirts), used physical violence to advance and strengthen their political position, disrupting the meetings of rival organisations and attacking their members (as well as Jewish people) on the streets. Such far-right armed groups were common in Bavaria, and were tolerated by the sympathetic far-right state government of Gustav Ritter von Kahr.\n\nWhen the stock market in the United States crashed on 24 October 1929, the effect in Germany was dire. Millions were thrown out of work and several major banks collapsed. Hitler and the NSDAP prepared to take advantage of the emergency to gain support for their party. They promised to strengthen the economy and provide jobs. Many voters decided the NSDAP was capable of restoring order, quelling civil unrest, and improving Germany's international reputation. After the federal election of 1932, the NSDAP was the largest party in the Reichstag, holding 230 seats with 37.4 percent of the popular vote.\n\nAlthough the Nazis won the greatest share of the popular vote in the two Reichstag general elections of 1932, they did not have a majority. Hitler therefore led a short-lived coalition government formed with the German National People's Party. Under pressure from politicians, industrialists, and the business community, President Paul von Hindenburg appointed Hitler as Chancellor of Germany on 30 January 1933. This event is known as the \"Machtergreifung\" (\"seizure of power\"). \n\nOn the night of 27 February 1933, the Reichstag building was set afire. Marinus van der Lubbe, a Dutch communist, was found guilty of starting the blaze. Hitler proclaimed that the arson marked the start of a communist uprising. The Reichstag Fire Decree, imposed on 28 February 1933, rescinded most civil liberties, including rights of assembly and freedom of the press. The decree also allowed the police to detain people indefinitely without charges or a court order. The legislation was accompanied by a propaganda campaign that led to public support for the measure. Violent suppression of communists by the SA was undertaken nationwide and 4,000 members of the Communist Party of Germany were arrested. \n\nIn March 1933, the Enabling Act, an amendment to the Weimar Constitution, passed in the Reichstag by a vote of 444 to 94. This amendment allowed Hitler and his cabinet to pass laws—even laws that violated the constitution—without the consent of the president or the Reichstag. As the bill required a two-thirds majority to pass, the Nazis used intimidation tactics as well as the provisions of the Reichstag Fire Decree to keep several Social Democratic deputies from attending, and the Communists had already been banned. On 10 May, the government seized the assets of the Social Democrats, and they were banned on 22 June. On 21 June, the SA raided the offices of the German National People's Party – their former coalition partners – and they disbanded on 29 June. The remaining major political parties followed suit: the Bavarian People's Party, Centre Party, and the German People's Party all disbanded. On 14 July 1933 Germany became a one-party state with the passage of a law decreeing the NSDAP to be the sole legal party in Germany. The founding of new parties was also made illegal, and all remaining political parties which had not already been dissolved were banned. The Enabling Act would subsequently serve as the legal foundation for the dictatorship the NSDAP established. Further elections in November 1933, 1936 and 1938 were Nazi-controlled, with only members of the NSDAP and a small number of independents elected.\n\nIn the months following the seizure of power in January 1933, the Hitler cabinet used the terms of the Reichstag Fire Decree and later the Enabling Act to initiate the process of \"Gleichschaltung\" (\"co-ordination\"), which brought all aspects of life under party control. Individual states not controlled by elected Nazi governments or Nazi-led coalitions were forced to agree to the appointment of Reich Commissars to bring the states in line with the policies of the central government. These Commissars had the power to appoint and remove local governments, state parliaments, officials, and judges. In this way Germany became a \"de facto\" unitary state, with all state governments controlled by the central government under the NSDAP. The state parliaments and the \"Reichsrat\" (federal upper house) were abolished in January 1934, with all state powers being transferred to the central government. \n\nAll civilian organisations, including agricultural groups, volunteer organisations, and sports clubs, had their leadership replaced with Nazi sympathisers or party members; these civic organisations either merged with the NSDAP or faced dissolution. The Nazi government declared a \"Day of National Labor\" for May Day 1933, and invited many trade union delegates to Berlin for celebrations. The day after, SA stormtroopers demolished union offices around the country; all trade unions were forced to dissolve and their leaders were arrested. The Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, passed in April, removed from their jobs all teachers, professors, judges, magistrates, and government officials who were Jewish or whose commitment to the party was suspect. This meant the only non-political institutions not under control of the NSDAP were the churches.\n\nThe Nazi regime abolished the symbols of the Weimar Republic—including the black, red, and gold tricolour flag—and adopted reworked symbolism. The previous imperial black, white, and red tricolour was restored as one of Germany's two official flags; the second was the swastika flag of the NSDAP, which became the sole national flag in 1935. The NSDAP anthem \"Horst-Wessel-Lied\" (\"Horst Wessel Song\") became a second national anthem.\n\nHitler knew that reviving the economy was vital. Germany was still in a dire economic situation, as six million people were unemployed and the balance of trade deficit was daunting. Using deficit spending, public works projects were undertaken beginning in 1934, creating 1.7 million new jobs by the end of that year alone. Average wages both per hour and per week began to rise.\n\nShortly after the NSDAP's seizure of power, the SA continued to apply pressure for greater political and military power. In response, Hitler used the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) and Gestapo to purge the entire SA leadership. Hitler targeted SA \"Stabschef\" (Chief of Staff) Ernst Röhm and other SA leaders who—along with a number of Hitler's political adversaries (such as Gregor Strasser and former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher)—were rounded up, arrested, and shot. Up to 200 people were killed from 30 June to 2 July 1934 in an event that became known as the Night of the Long Knives.\n\nOn 2 August 1934, Hindenburg died. The previous day, the cabinet had enacted the \"Law Concerning the Highest State Office of the Reich\", which stated that upon Hindenburg's death the office of president would be abolished and its powers merged with those of the chancellor. Hitler thus became head of state as well as head of government and was formally named as \"Führer und Reichskanzler\" (\"Leader and Chancellor\") – although eventually \"Reichskanzler\" was quietly dropped. Germany was now a totalitarian state with Hitler at its head. As head of state, Hitler became Supreme Commander of the armed forces. The new law provide an altered loyalty oath for servicemen so that they affirmed loyalty to Hitler personally rather than the office of supreme commander or the state. On 19 August, the merger of the presidency with the chancellorship was approved by 90 percent of the electorate in a plebiscite.\nMost Germans were relieved that the conflicts and street fighting of the Weimar era had ended. They were deluged with propaganda orchestrated by Minister of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda Joseph Goebbels, who promised peace and plenty for all in a united, Marxist-free country without the constraints of the Versailles Treaty. The first major Nazi concentration camp, initially for political prisoners, was opened at Dachau in 1933. Hundreds of camps of varying size and function were created by the end of the war.\n\nBeginning in April 1933, scores of measures defining the status of Jews and their rights were instituted. Initiatives and legal mandates against the Jews culminated in the establishment of the Nuremberg Laws of 1935, stripping them of their basic rights. The Nazis would take from the Jews their wealth, their right to intermarry with non-Jews, and their right to occupy many fields of labour (such as practising law, medicine, or working as educators). Eventually the Nazis declared the Jews as undesirable to remain among German citizens and society. The NSDAP obtained and legitimised power through its initial revolutionary activities, then through manipulation of legal mechanisms, the use of police powers, and by taking control of the state and federal institutions.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Enabling Act and the NSDAP seizure of power in early 1933, Germany was without allies, and its military was drastically weakened by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. France, Poland, Italy, and the Soviet Union each had reasons to object to Hitler's rise to power. Poland suggested to France that the two nations engage in a preventive war against Germany in March 1933. Fascist Italy objected to German claims in the Balkans and on Austria, which Duce Benito Mussolini considered to be in Italy's sphere of influence.\n\nAs early as February 1933, Hitler announced that rearmament must begin, albeit clandestinely at first, as to do so was in violation of the Versailles Treaty. On 17 May 1933, Hitler gave a speech before the Reichstag outlining his desire for world peace, while at the same time accepting an offer from American President Franklin D. Roosevelt for military disarmament, provided the other nations of Europe did the same. When the other European powers failed to accept this offer, Hitler pulled Germany out of the World Disarmament Conference and the League of Nations in October, claiming its disarmament clauses were unfair if they applied only to Germany. In a referendum held in November, 95 percent of voters supported Germany's withdrawal. \n\nIn 1934, Hitler told his military leaders that a war in the east should begin in 1942. The Saarland, which had been placed under League of Nations supervision for 15 years at the end of World War I, voted in January 1935 to become part of Germany. In March 1935, Hitler announced the creation of an air force, and that the \"Reichswehr\" would be increased to 550,000 men, Britain agreed that the Germans would be allowed to build a naval fleet with the signing of the Anglo-German Naval Agreement on 18 June 1935.\n\nWhen the Italian invasion of Ethiopia led to only mild protests by the British and French governments, on 7 March 1936 Hitler used the Franco-Soviet Treaty of Mutual Assistance as a pretext to order the army to march 3,000 troops into the demilitarised zone in the Rhineland in violation of the Versailles Treaty. As the territory was part of Germany, the British and French governments did not feel that attempting to enforce the treaty was worth the risk of war. In the one-party election held on 29 March, the NSDAP received 98.9 percent support. In 1936, Hitler signed an Anti-Comintern Pact with Japan and a non-aggression agreement with Mussolini, who was soon referring to a \"Rome-Berlin Axis\".\n\nHitler sent military supplies and assistance to the Nationalist forces of General Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War, which began in July 1936. The German Condor Legion included a range of aircraft and their crews, as well as a tank contingent. The aircraft of the Legion destroyed the city of Guernica in 1937. The Nationalists were victorious in 1939 and became an informal ally of Nazi Germany.\n\nIn February 1938, Hitler emphasised to Austrian Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg the need for Germany to secure its frontiers. Schuschnigg scheduled a plebiscite regarding Austrian independence for 13 March, but Hitler sent an ultimatum to Schuschnigg on 11 March demanding that he hand over all power to the Austrian NSDAP or face an invasion. German troops entered Austria the next day, to be greeted with enthusiasm by the populace.\n\nThe Republic of Czechoslovakia was home to a substantial minority of Germans, who lived mostly in the Sudetenland. Under pressure from separatist groups within the Sudeten German Party, the Czechoslovak government offered economic concessions to the region. Hitler decided to incorporate not just the Sudetenland but all of Czechoslovakia into the Reich. The Nazis undertook a propaganda campaign to try to generate support for an invasion. Top leaders of the armed forces opposed the plan, as Germany was not yet ready for war.\n\nThe crisis led to war preparations by Britain, Czechoslovakia, and France (Czechoslovakia's ally). Attempting to avoid war, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain arranged a series of meetings, the result of which was the Munich Agreement, signed on 29 September 1938. The Czechoslovak government was forced to accept the Sudetenland's annexation into Germany. Chamberlain was greeted with cheers when he landed in London, saying it brought \"peace for our time\". The agreement lasted six months before Hitler seized the rest of Czech territory in March 1939. The Germans split Czechoslovakia into two parts, the puppet Slovakia Republic and the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.\n\nAustrian and Czech foreign exchange reserves were seized by the Nazis, as were stockpiles of raw materials such as metals and completed goods such as weaponry and aircraft, which were shipped to Germany. The \"Reichswerke Hermann Göring\" industrial conglomerate took control of steel and coal production facilities in both countries.\n\nIn January 1934, Germany signed a non-aggression pact with Poland, which disrupted the French network of anti-German alliances in Eastern Europe. In March 1939, Hitler demanded the return of the Free City of Danzig and the Polish Corridor, a strip of land that separated East Prussia from the rest of Germany. The British announced they would come to the aid of Poland if it was attacked. Hitler, believing the British would not actually take action, ordered an invasion plan should be readied for September 1939. On 23 May, Hitler described to his generals his overall plan of not only seizing the Polish Corridor but greatly expanding German territory eastward at the expense of Poland. He expected this time they would be met by force.\n\nThe Germans reaffirmed their alliance with Italy and signed non-aggression pacts with Denmark, Estonia, and Latvia whilst trade links were formalised with Romania, Norway, and Sweden. Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop arranged in negotiations with the Soviet Union a non-aggression pact, the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, signed in August 1939. The treaty also contained secret protocols dividing Poland and the Baltic states into German and Soviet spheres of influence.\n\nGermany's wartime foreign policy involved the creation of allied governments controlled directly or indirectly from Berlin. They intended to obtain soldiers from allies such as Italy and Hungary and workers and food supplies from allies such as Vichy France. Hungary was the fourth nation to join the Axis, signing the Tripartite Pact on 27 September 1940. Bulgaria signed the pact on 17 November. German efforts to secure oil included negotiating a supply from their new ally, Romania, who signed the Pact on 23 November, alongside the Slovak Republic. By late 1942, there were 24 divisions from Romania on the Eastern Front, 10 from Italy, and 10 from Hungary. Germany assumed full control in France in 1942, Italy in 1943, and Hungary in 1944. Although Japan was a powerful ally, the relationship was distant, with little co-ordination or co-operation. For example, Germany refused to share their formula for synthetic oil from coal until late in the war.\n\nGermany invaded Poland and captured the Free City of Danzig on 1 September 1939, beginning World War II in Europe. Honouring their treaty obligations, Britain and France declared war on Germany two days later. Poland fell quickly, as the Soviet Union attacked from the east on 17 September. Reinhard Heydrich, chief of the \"Sicherheitspolizei\" (SiPo; Security Police) and \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD; Security Service), ordered on 21 September that Polish Jews should be rounded up and concentrated into cities with good rail links. Initially the intention was to deport them further east, or possibly to Madagascar. Using lists prepared in advance, some 65,000 Polish intelligentsia, noblemen, clergy, and teachers were killed by the end of 1939 in an attempt to destroy Poland's identity as a nation. Soviet forces advanced into Finland in the Winter War, and German forces saw action at sea. But little other activity occurred until May, so the period became known as the \"Phoney War\".\n\nFrom the start of the war, a British blockade on shipments to Germany affected its economy. Germany was particularly dependent on foreign supplies of oil, coal, and grain. Thanks to trade embargoes and the blockade, imports into Germany declined by 80 per cent. To safeguard Swedish iron ore shipments to Germany, Hitler ordered the invasion of Denmark and Norway, which began on 9 April. Denmark fell after less than a day, while most of Norway followed by the end of the month. By early June, Germany occupied all of Norway.\n\nAgainst the advice of many of his senior military officers, Hitler ordered an attack on France and the Low Countries, which began in May 1940. They quickly conquered Luxembourg and the Netherlands. After outmanoeuvring the Allies in Belgium and forcing the evacuation of many British and French troops at Dunkirk, France fell as well, surrendering to Germany on 22 June. The victory in France resulted in an upswing in Hitler's popularity and an upsurge in war fever in Germany.\n\nIn violation of the provisions of the Hague Convention, industrial firms in the Netherlands, France, and Belgium were put to work producing war materiel for Germany. Officials viewed this option as being preferable to their citizens being deported to the Reich as forced labour.\nThe Nazis seized from the French thousands of locomotives and rolling stock, stockpiles of weapons, and raw materials such as copper, tin, oil, and nickel. Payments for occupation costs were levied upon France, Belgium, and Norway. Barriers to trade led to hoarding, black markets, and uncertainty about the future. Food supplies were precarious; production dropped in most of Europe, but not as much as during World War I. Famine was experienced in many occupied countries during the war.\n\nHitler's peace overtures to the new British Prime Minister Winston Churchill were rejected in July 1940. Grand Admiral Erich Raeder had advised Hitler in June that air superiority was a pre-condition for a successful invasion of Britain, so Hitler ordered a series of aerial attacks on Royal Air Force (RAF) airbases and radar stations, as well as nightly air raids on British cities, including London, Plymouth, and Coventry. The German Luftwaffe failed to defeat the RAF in what became known as the Battle of Britain, and by the end of October, Hitler realised that air superiority would not be achieved. He permanently postponed the invasion, a plan which the commanders of the German army had never taken entirely seriously. Several historians, including Andrew Gordon, believe the primary reason for the failure of the invasion plan was due to the superiority of the Royal Navy, not the actions of the RAF.\n\nIn February 1941, the German \"Afrika Korps\" arrived in Libya to aid the Italians in the North African Campaign. On 6 April, Germany launched an invasion of Yugoslavia and Greece. All of Yugoslavia and parts of Greece were subsequently divided between Germany, Hungary, Italy, and Bulgaria. The Italian-backed Croatian fascist leader Ante Pavelić established the Independent State of Croatia.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, contravening the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, 5.5 million Axis troops attacked the Soviet Union. In addition to Hitler's stated purpose of acquiring \"Lebensraum\", this large-scale offensive—codenamed Operation Barbarossa—was intended to destroy the Soviet Union and seize its natural resources for subsequent aggression against the Western powers. The reaction among Germans was one of surprise and trepidation as many were concerned about how much longer the war would continue or suspected that Germany could not win a war fought on two fronts.\n\nThe invasion conquered a huge area, including the Baltic states, Belarus, and west Ukraine. After the successful Battle of Smolensk ended in early September 1941, Hitler ordered Army Group Centre to halt its advance to Moscow and temporarily divert its Panzer groups to aid in the encirclement of Leningrad and Kiev. This pause provided the Red Army with an opportunity to mobilise fresh reserves. The Moscow offensive, which resumed in October 1941, ended disastrously in December. On 7 December 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Four days later, Germany declared war on the United States.\n\nFood was in short supply in the conquered areas of the Soviet Union and Poland, as the retreating armies had burned the crops in some areas, and much of the remainder was sent back to the Reich. In Germany, rations were cut in 1942. In his role as Plenipotentiary of the Four Year Plan, Hermann Göring demanded increased shipments of grain from France and fish from Norway. The 1942 harvest was good, and food supplies remained adequate in Western Europe.\n\nGermany and Europe as a whole was almost totally dependent on foreign oil imports. In an attempt to resolve the shortage, in June 1942 Germany launched \"Fall Blau\" (\"Case Blue\"), an offensive against the Caucasian oilfields. The Red Army launched a counter-offensive on 19 November and encircled the Axis forces, who were trapped in Stalingrad on 23 November. Göring assured Hitler that the 6th Army could be supplied by air, but this turned out to be infeasible. Hitler's refusal to allow a retreat led to the deaths of 200,000 German and Romanian soldiers; of the 91,000 men who surrendered in the city on 31 January 1943, only 6,000 survivors returned to Germany after the war.\n\nLosses continued to mount after Stalingrad, leading to a sharp reduction in the popularity of the Nazi Party and deteriorating morale among both the military and the civilian population. Soviet forces continued to push the invaders westward after the failed German offensive at the Battle of Kursk in the summer of 1943. By the end of 1943 the Germans had lost most of their eastern territorial gains. In Egypt, Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's \"Afrika Korps\" were defeated by British forces under Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery in October 1942. The Allies landed in Sicily in July 1943 and in Italy in September. Meanwhile, American and British bomber fleets based in Britain began operations against Germany. Many sorties were intentionally given civilian targets in an effort to destroy German morale. Soon German aircraft production could not keep pace with losses, and without air cover the Allied bombing campaign became even more devastating. By targeting oil refineries and factories, they crippled the German war effort by late 1944.\n\nOn 6 June 1944, American, British, and Canadian forces established a front in France with the D-Day landings in Normandy. On 20 July 1944, Hitler survived an assassination attempt using a planted bomb. He ordered brutal reprisals, resulting in 7,000 arrests and the execution of more than 4,900 people. The failed Ardennes Offensive (16 December 1944 – 25 January 1945) was the last major German offensive on the western front, and Soviet forces entered Germany on 27 January. Hitler's refusal to admit defeat and his repeated insistence that the war be fought to the last man led to unnecessary death and destruction in the war's closing months. Through his Justice Minister Otto Georg Thierack, Hitler ordered that anyone who was not prepared to fight should be court-martialed, and thousands of people were put to death. In many areas, people surrendered to the approaching Allies in spite of exhortations of local leaders to continue to fight. Hitler ordered the destruction of transport, bridges, industries, and other infrastructure—a scorched earth decree—but Armaments Minister Albert Speer prevented this order from being fully carried out.\n\nDuring the Battle of Berlin (16 April 1945 – 2 May 1945), Hitler and his staff lived in the underground \"Führerbunker\" while the Red Army approached. On 30 April, when Soviet troops were within two blocks of the Reich Chancellery, Hitler, along with his girlfriend and by then wife Eva Braun committed suicide. On 2 May, General Helmuth Weidling unconditionally surrendered Berlin to Soviet General Vasily Chuikov. Hitler was succeeded by Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz as Reich President and Goebbels as Reich Chancellor. Goebbels and his wife Magda committed suicide the next day after murdering their six children. Between 4 and 8 May 1945, most of the remaining German armed forces unconditionally surrendered. The German Instrument of Surrender was signed 8 May, marking the end of the Nazi regime and the end of World War II in Europe.\n\nPopular support for Hitler almost completely disappeared as the war drew to a close. Suicide rates in Germany increased, particularly in areas where the Red Army was advancing. Among soldiers and party personnel, suicide was often deemed an honourable and heroic alternative to surrender. First-hand accounts and propaganda about the uncivilised behaviour of the advancing Soviet troops caused panic among civilians on the Eastern Front, especially women, who feared being raped. More than a thousand people (out of a population of around 16,000) committed suicide in Demmin on and around 1 May 1945 as the 65th Army of 2nd Belorussian Front first broke into a distillery and then rampaged through the town, committing mass rapes, arbitrarily executing civilians, and setting fire to buildings. High numbers of suicides took place in many other locations, including Neubrandenburg (600 dead), Stolp in Pommern (1,000 dead), and Berlin, where at least 7,057 people committed suicide in 1945.\n\nEstimates of the total German war dead range from 5.5 to 6.9 million persons. A study by German historian Rüdiger Overmans puts the number of German military dead and missing at 5.3 million, including 900,000 men conscripted from outside of Germany's 1937 borders. Overy estimated in 2014 that about 353,000 civilians were killed in Allied air raids. Other civilian deaths include 300,000 Germans (including Jews) who were victims of Nazi political, racial, and religious persecution and 200,000 who were murdered in the Nazi euthanasia program. Political courts called \"Sondergerichte\" sentenced some 12,000 members of the German resistance to death, and civil courts sentenced an additional 40,000 Germans. Mass rapes of German women also took place.\n\nAt the end of the war, Europe had more than 40 million refugees, its economy had collapsed, and 70 percent of its industrial infrastructure was destroyed. Between twelve and fourteen million ethnic Germans fled or were expelled from central, eastern and southeastern Europe to Germany. The West German government estimated a death toll of 2.2 million civilians due to the flight and expulsion of Germans and through forced labour in the Soviet Union. This figure remained unchallenged until the 1990s, when some historians put the death toll at 500,000–600,000 confirmed deaths. In 2006, the German government reaffirmed its position that 2.0–2.5 million deaths occurred.\n\nAs a result of their defeat in World War I and the resulting Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost Alsace-Lorraine, Northern Schleswig, and Memel. The Saarland temporarily became a protectorate of France under the condition that its residents would later decide by referendum which country to join, and Poland became a separate nation and was given access to the sea by the creation of the Polish Corridor, which separated Prussia from the rest of Germany, while Danzig was made a free city.\n\nGermany regained control of the Saarland through a referendum held in 1935 and annexed Austria in the \"Anschluss\" of 1938. The Munich Agreement of 1938 gave Germany control of the Sudetenland, and they seized the remainder of Czechoslovakia six months later. Under threat of invasion by sea, Lithuania surrendered the Memel district in March 1939.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1941, German forces invaded Poland, Denmark, Norway, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Belgium, Yugoslavia, Greece, and the Soviet Union. Germany annexed parts of northern Yugoslavia in April 1941, while Mussolini ceded Trieste, South Tyrol, and Istria to Germany in 1943. Two puppet districts were created in the area: the Operational Zone of the Adriatic Littoral and the Operational Zone of the Alpine Foothills.\n\nSome of the conquered territories were incorporated into Germany as part of Hitler's long-term goal of creating a Greater Germanic Reich. Several areas, such as Alsace-Lorraine, were placed under the authority of an adjacent \"Gau\" (regional district). Beyond the incorporated territories were the \"Reichskommissariate\" (Reich Commissariats), quasi-colonial regimes established in some occupied countries. Areas placed under German administration included the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, \"Reichskommissariat Ostland\" (encompassing the Baltic states and Belarus), and \"Reichskommissariat Ukraine\". Conquered areas of Belgium and France were placed under control of the Military Administration in Belgium and Northern France. Belgian Eupen-Malmedy, which had been part of Germany until 1919, was annexed. Part of Poland was incorporated into the Reich, and the General Government was established in occupied central Poland. The governments of Denmark, Norway (\"Reichskommissariat Norwegen\"), and the Netherlands (\"Reichskommissariat Niederlande\") were placed under civilian administrations staffed largely by natives. Hitler intended to eventually incorporate many of these areas into the Reich. Germany also occupied the Italian protectorate of Albania and the Italian governorate of Montenegro in 1943. Elsewhere in the Balkans, Germany occupied the territory of Serbia and installed a puppet government.\n\nWith the issuance of the Berlin Declaration on 5 June 1945 and later creation of the Allied Control Council, the four Allied powers temporarily assumed governance of Germany. At the Potsdam Conference in August 1945, the Allies arranged for the Allied occupation and denazification of the country. Germany was split into four zones, each occupied by one of the Allied powers, who drew reparations from their zone. Since most of the industrial areas were in the western zones, the Soviet Union was transferred additional reparations. The Allied Control Council disestablished Prussia on 20 May 1947. Aid to Germany began arriving from the United States under the Marshall Plan in 1948. The occupation lasted until 1949, when the countries of East Germany and West Germany were created. In 1970, Germany finalised her border with Poland by signing the Treaty of Warsaw. Germany remained divided until 1990, when the Allies renounced all claims to German territory with the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany, under which Germany also renounced claims to territories lost during World War II.\n\nThe NSDAP was a far-right political party which arose during the social and financial upheavals that occurred following the end of World War I. The NSDAP remained small and marginalised, managing 2.6% of the federal vote in 1928, prior to the on-set of the Great Depression in 1929. By 1930 the NSDAP won 18.3% of the federal vote, making it the Reichstag's second largest political party. While in prison after the failed Beer Hall Putsch of 1923, Hitler wrote \"Mein Kampf\", which laid out his plan for transforming German society into one based on race. Nazi ideology brought together elements of antisemitism, racial hygiene, and eugenics, and combined them with pan-Germanism and territorial expansionism with the goal of obtaining more \"Lebensraum\" for the Germanic people. The regime attempted to obtain this new territory by attacking Poland and the Soviet Union, intending to deport or kill the Jews and Slavs living there, who were viewed as being inferior to the Aryan master race and part of a Jewish-Bolshevik conspiracy. The Nazi regime believed that only Germany could defeat the forces of Bolshevism and save humanity from world domination by International Jewry. Others deemed life unworthy of life by the Nazis included the mentally and physically disabled, Romani people, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, and social misfits.\n\nInfluenced by the \"Völkisch\" movement, the regime was against cultural modernism and supported the development of an extensive military at the expense of intellectualism. Creativity and art were stifled, except where they could serve as propaganda media. The party used symbols such as the Blood Flag and rituals such as the Nazi Party rallies to foster unity and bolster the regime's popularity.\n\nHitler ruled Germany autocratically by asserting the \"Führerprinzip\" (\"leader principle\"), which called for absolute obedience of all subordinates. He viewed the government structure as a pyramid, with himself—the infallible leader—at the apex. Party rank was not determined by elections, and positions were filled through appointment by those of higher rank. The party used propaganda to develop a cult of personality around Hitler. Historians such as Kershaw emphasise the psychological impact of Hitler's skill as an orator. Roger Gill states: \"His moving speeches captured the minds and hearts of a vast number of the German people: he virtually hypnotized his audiences\".\n\nWhile top officials reported to Hitler and followed his policies, they had considerable autonomy. He expected officials to \"work towards the Führer\" – to take the initiative in promoting policies and actions in line with party goals and Hitler's wishes, without his involvement in day-to-day decision-making. The government was not a coordinated, co-operating body, but rather a disorganised collection of factions led by the party elite, who struggled to amass power and gain the Führer's favour. Hitler's leadership style was to give contradictory orders to his subordinates and to place them in positions where their duties and responsibilities overlapped. In this way he fostered distrust, competition, and infighting among his subordinates to consolidate and maximise his own power.\n\nSuccessive \"Reichsstatthalter\" decrees between 1933 and 1935 abolished the existing \"Länder\" (constituent states) of Germany and replaced them with new administrative divisions, the \"Gaue\", governed by NSDAP leaders (\"Gauleiters\"). The change was never fully implemented, as the Länder were still used as administrative divisions for some government departments such as education. This led to a bureaucratic tangle of overlapping jurisdictions and responsibilities typical of the administrative style of the Nazi regime.\n\nJewish civil servants lost their jobs in 1933, except for those who had seen military service in World War I. Members of the NSDAP or party supporters were appointed in their place. As part of the process of \"Gleichschaltung\", the Reich Local Government Law of 1935 abolished local elections, and from henceforth mayors were appointed by the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn August 1934, civil servants and members of the military were required to swear an oath of unconditional obedience to Hitler. These laws became the basis of the \"Führerprinzip\", the concept that Hitler's word overrode all existing laws. Any acts that were sanctioned by Hitler—even murder—thus became legal. All legislation proposed by cabinet ministers had to be approved by the office of Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess, who could also veto top civil service appointments.\n\nMost of the judicial system and legal codes of the Weimar Republic remained in use during and after the Nazi era to deal with non-political crimes. The courts issued and carried out far more death sentences than before the Nazis took power. People who were convicted of three or more offences—even petty ones—could be deemed habitual offenders and jailed indefinitely. People such as prostitutes and pickpockets were judged to be inherently criminal and a threat to the racial community. Thousands were arrested and confined indefinitely without trial.\nA new type of court, the \"Volksgerichtshof\" (People's Court), was established in 1934 to deal with political cases. This court handed out over 5,000 death sentences until its dissolution in 1945. The death penalty could be issued for offences such as being a communist, printing seditious leaflets, or even making jokes about Hitler or other officials. The Gestapo was in charge of investigative policing to enforce National Socialist ideology as they located and confined political offenders, Jews, and others deemed undesirable. Political offenders who were released from prison were often immediately re-arrested by the Gestapo and confined in a concentration camp.\n\nThe Nazis used propaganda to promulgate the concept of \"Rassenschande\" (\"race defilement\") to justify the need for such laws. In September 1935, the Nuremberg Laws were enacted. These laws initially prohibited sexual relations and marriages between Aryans and Jews and were later extended to include \"Gypsies, Negroes or their bastard offspring\". The law also forbade the employment of German women under the age of 45 as domestic servants in Jewish households. The Reich Citizenship Law stated that only those of \"German or related blood\" were eligible for citizenship. Thus Jews and other non-Aryans were stripped of their German citizenship. The wording of the law also permitted the Nazis to deny citizenship to anyone who was not supportive enough of the regime. A supplementary decree issued in November defined as Jewish anyone with three Jewish grandparents, or two grandparents if the Jewish faith was followed.\n\nThe unified armed forces of Germany from 1935 to 1945 were called the \"Wehrmacht\" (defence force). This included the \"Heer\" (army), \"Kriegsmarine\" (navy), and the \"Luftwaffe\" (air force). From 2 August 1934, members of the armed forces were required to pledge an oath of unconditional obedience to Hitler personally. In contrast to the previous oath, which required allegiance to the constitution of the country and its lawful establishments, this new oath required members of the military to obey Hitler even if they were being ordered to do something illegal. Hitler decreed that the army would have to tolerate and even offer logistical support to the \"Einsatzgruppen\"—the mobile death squads responsible for millions of deaths in Eastern Europe—when it was tactically possible to do so. \"Wehrmacht\" troops also participated directly in the Holocaust by shooting civilians or committing genocide under the guise of anti-partisan operations. The party line was that the Jews were the instigators of the partisan struggle and therefore needed to be eliminated. On 8 July 1941, Heydrich announced that all Jews in the eastern conquered territories were to be regarded as partisans and gave the order for all male Jews between the ages of 15 and 45 to be shot. By August this was extended to include the entire Jewish population.\n\nIn spite of efforts to prepare the country militarily, the economy could not sustain a lengthy war of attrition. A strategy was developed based on the tactic of \"Blitzkrieg\" (\"lightning war\"), which involved using quick coordinated assaults that avoided enemy strong points. Attacks began with artillery bombardment, followed by bombing and strafing runs. Next the tanks would attack and finally the infantry would move in to secure the captured area. Victories continued through mid-1940, but the failure to defeat Britain was the first major turning point in the war. The decision to attack the Soviet Union and the decisive defeat at Stalingrad led to the retreat of the German armies and the eventual loss of the war. The total number of soldiers who served in the \"Wehrmacht\" from 1935 to 1945 was around 18.2 million, of whom 5.3 million died.\n\nThe \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA; Storm Detachment; Brownshirts), founded in 1921, was the first paramilitary wing of the NSDAP; their initial assignment was to protect Nazi leaders at rallies and assemblies. They also took part in street battles against the forces of rival political parties and violent actions against Jews and others. Under Ernst Röhm's leadership the SA had grown by 1934 to over half a million members—4.5 million including reserves—at a time when the regular army was still limited to 100,000 men by the Versailles Treaty.\n\nRöhm hoped to assume command of the army and absorb it into the ranks of the SA. Hindenburg and Defence Minister Werner von Blomberg threatened to impose martial law if the activities of the SA were not curtailed. Therefore, less than a year and a half after seizing power, Hitler ordered the deaths of the SA leadership, including Rohm. After the purge of 1934, the SA was no longer a major force.\n\nInitially a small bodyguard unit under the auspices of the SA, the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS; Protection Squadron) grew to become one of the largest and most powerful groups in Nazi Germany. Led by \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler from 1929, the SS overall had over a quarter million members by 1938. Himmler initially envisioned the SS as being an elite group of guards, Hitler's last line of defence. The Waffen-SS, the military branch of the SS, became arguably a \"de facto\" fourth branch of the \"Wehrmacht\", however, it was never a \"serious rival\" to the German Army. It never obtained total \"independence of command\" and was dependent on the army for heavy weaponry and equipment. By the end of 1942 as the Soviet Army pushed back in resurgence and losses of Waffen-SS troops mounted, the selection and racial requirements were no longer followed. With recruitment and conscription based only on expansion, by 1943 the Waffen-SS could not longer claim to be an elite fighting force. Its formations committed many war crimes against civilians and allied servicemen. Up to 60,000 Waffen-SS men served in the concentration and extermination camps. Further, a third of the \"Einsatzgruppen\" members that were responsible for mass murder, were recruited from Waffen-SS personnel. From 1935 forward, the SS spearheaded the persecution of Jews, who were rounded up into ghettos and concentration camps. With the outbreak of World War II, the SS \"Einsatzgruppen\" units followed the army into Poland and the Soviet Union, where from 1941 to 1945 they killed more than two million people, including 1.3 million Jews. The \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" (death's head units) ran the concentration camps and extermination camps, where millions more were killed.\n\nIn 1931, Himmler organised an SS intelligence service which became known as the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD; Security Service) under his deputy, Heydrich. This organisation was tasked with locating and arresting communists and other political opponents. Himmler established the beginnings of a parallel economy under the auspices of the SS Economy and Administration Head Office. This holding company owned housing corporations, factories, and publishing houses.\n\nThe most pressing economic matter the Nazis initially faced was the 30 percent national unemployment rate. Economist Dr. Hjalmar Schacht, President of the Reichsbank and Minister of Economics, created a scheme for deficit financing in May 1933. Capital projects were paid for with the issuance of promissory notes called Mefo bills. When the notes were presented for payment, the Reichsbank printed money. Hitler and his economic team expected that the upcoming territorial expansion would provide the means of repaying the soaring national debt. Schacht's administration achieved a rapid decline in the unemployment rate, the largest of any country during the Great Depression. Economic recovery was uneven, with reduced hours of work and erratic availability of necessities, leading to disenchantment with the regime as early as 1934.\n\nIn October 1933, the Junkers Aircraft Works was expropriated. In concert with other aircraft manufacturers and under the direction of Aviation Minister Göring, production was ramped up industry-wide. From a workforce of 3,200 people producing 100 units per year in 1932, the industry grew to employ a quarter of a million workers manufacturing over 10,000 technically advanced aircraft annually less than ten years later.\n\nAn elaborate bureaucracy was created to regulate imports of raw materials and finished goods with the intention of eliminating foreign competition in the German marketplace and improving the nation's balance of payments. The Nazis encouraged the development of synthetic replacements for materials such as oil and textiles. As the market was experiencing a glut and prices for petroleum were low, in 1933 the Nazi government made a profit-sharing agreement with IG Farben, guaranteeing them a 5 percent return on capital invested in their synthetic oil plant at Leuna. Any profits in excess of that amount would be turned over to the Reich. By 1936, Farben regretted making the deal, as the excess profits by then being generated had to be given to the government. In another attempt to secure an adequate wartime supply of petroleum, Germany intimidated Romania into signing a trade agreement in March 1939.\n\nMajor public works projects financed with deficit spending included the construction of a network of \"Autobahnen\" and providing funding for programmes initiated by the previous government for housing and agricultural improvements. To stimulate the construction industry, credit was offered to private businesses and subsidies were made available for home purchases and repairs. On the condition that the wife would leave the workforce, a loan of up to 1,000 Reichsmarks could be accessed by young couples of Aryan descent who intended to marry, and the amount that had to be repaid was reduced by 25 percent for each child born. The caveat that the woman had to remain unemployed was dropped by 1937 due to a shortage of skilled labourers.\n\nEnvisioning widespread car ownership as part of the new Germany, Hitler arranged for designer Ferdinand Porsche to draw up plans for the \"KdF-wagen\" (Strength Through Joy car), intended to be an automobile that everyone could afford. A prototype was displayed at the International Motor Show in Berlin on 17 February 1939. With the outbreak of World War II, the factory was converted to produce military vehicles. None were sold until after the war, when the vehicle was renamed the Volkswagen (people's car).\n\nSix million people were unemployed when the Nazis took power in 1933 and by 1937 there were fewer than a million. This was in part due to the removal of women from the workforce. Real wages dropped by 25 percent between 1933 and 1938. After the dissolution of the trade unions in May 1933, their funds were seized and their leadership arrested, including those who attempted to co-operate with the NSDAP. A new organisation, the German Labour Front, was created and placed under NSDAP functionary Robert Ley. The average German worked 43 hours a week in 1933; by 1939 this increased to 47 hours a week.\n\nBy early 1934, the focus shifted from funding work creation schemes towards rearmament. By 1935, military expenditures accounted for 73 percent of the government's purchases of goods and services. On 18 October 1936, Hitler named Göring as Plenipotentiary of the Four Year Plan, intended to speed up the rearmament programme. In addition to calling for the rapid construction of steel mills, synthetic rubber plants and other factories, Göring instituted wage and price controls and restricted the issuance of stock dividends. Large expenditures were made on rearmament in spite of growing deficits. Plans unveiled in late 1938 for massive increases to the navy and air force prior to commencing the war were impossible to fulfil, as Germany lacked the finances and material resources to build the planned units, as well as the necessary fuel required to keep them running. With the introduction of compulsory military service in 1935, the \"Reichswehr\", which had been limited to 100,000 by the terms of the Versailles Treaty, expanded to 750,000 on active service at the start of World War II, with a million more in the reserve. By January 1939, unemployment was down to 301,800 and it dropped to only 77,500 by September.\n\nThe Nazi war economy was a mixed economy that combined a free market with central planning. Historian Richard Overy described it as being somewhere in between the command economy of the Soviet Union and the capitalist system of the United States.\n\nIn 1942, after the death of Armaments Minister Fritz Todt, Hitler appointed Albert Speer as his replacement. Wartime rationing of consumer goods led to an increase in personal savings, funds which were in turn lent to the government to support the war effort. By 1944, the war was consuming 75 percent of Germany's gross domestic product, compared to 60 percent in the Soviet Union and 55 percent in Britain. Speer improved production by centralising planning and control, reducing production of consumer goods, and using forced labour and slavery. The wartime economy eventually relied heavily upon the large-scale employment of slave labour. Germany imported and enslaved some 12 million people from 20 European countries to work in factories and on farms. Approximately 75 percent were Eastern European. Many were casualties of Allied bombing, as they received poor air raid protection. Poor living conditions led to high rates of sickness, injury and death, as well as sabotage and criminal activity. The wartime economy also relied upon large-scale robbery, initially through the state seizing the property of Jewish citizens and later by plundering the resources of occupied territories.\n\nForeign workers brought into Germany were put into four different classifications: guest workers, military internees, civilian workers, and Eastern workers. Each group was subject to different regulations. In addition, the Nazis issued a ban on sexual relations between Germans and foreign workers.\n\nBy 1944 over a half million women served as auxiliaries in the German armed forces. The number of women in paid employment only increased by 271,000 (1.8 percent) from 1939 to 1944, but as the production of consumer goods had been cut back, women left those industries for employment in the war economy. They also took over jobs formerly held by men, especially on farms and in family-owned shops.\n\nVery heavy strategic bombing by the Allies targeted refineries producing synthetic oil and gasoline, as well as the German transportation system, especially rail yards and canals. The armaments industry began to break down by September 1944. By November, fuel coal was no longer reaching its destinations and the production of new armaments was no longer possible. Overy argues that the bombing strained the German war economy and forced it to divert up to one-fourth of its manpower and industry into anti-aircraft resources, which very likely shortened the war.\n\nDuring the course of the war, the Nazis extracted considerable amounts of plunder from occupied Europe. Historian and war correspondent William L. Shirer writes that: \"The total amount of [Nazi] loot will never be known; it has proved beyond man's capacity to accurately compute.\" Gold reserves and other foreign holdings were regularly seized from the national banks of occupied nations, while large \"occupation costs\" were usually imposed. By February 1944, the \"Reichsfinanzministerium\" (Ministry of Finance) had calculated that 48 billion Reichsmarks had been paid to Germany. By the end of the war, occupation costs were calculated by the Nazis to number 60 billion Reichsmarks, with France alone paying 31.5 billion. The Bank of France was also forced to provide 4.5 billion Reichsmarks in \"credits\" to Germany, while a further 500,000 Reichsmarks were assessed against Vichy France by the Nazis in the form of \"fees\" and other miscellaneous charges. The Nazis exploited other conquered nations in a similar way. After the war, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey concluded Germany had obtained 104 billion Reichsmarks in the form of occupation costs and other wealth transfers from occupied Europe, including two-thirds of the gross domestic product of Belgium and the Netherlands.\n\nNazi plunder included private and public art collections, artefacts, precious metals, books, and personal possessions. Hitler and Göring in particular were interested in acquiring looted art treasures from occupied Europe, the former planning to use the stolen art to fill the galleries of the planned \"Führermuseum\" (Leader's Museum), and the latter for his personal collection. Göring, having stripped almost all of occupied Poland of its artworks within six months of Germany's invasion, ultimately grew a collection valued at over 50 million Reichsmarks. In 1940, the Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce was established to loot artwork and cultural material from public and private collections, libraries, and museums throughout Europe. France saw the greatest extent of Nazi plunder. Some 26,000 railroad cars of art treasures, furniture, and other looted items were sent to Germany from France. By January 1941, Rosenberg estimated the looted treasures from France to be valued at over one billion Reichsmarks. In addition, soldiers looted or purchased goods such as produce and clothing—items, which were becoming harder to obtain in Germany—for shipment home. \n\nGoods and raw materials were also taken. In France, an estimated of cereals were seized during the course of the war. 75 percent of the oats produced in France, as well as 80 percent of the country's oil and 74 percent of its steel production were also taken. The valuation of this loot is estimated to be 184.5 billion francs. In Poland, Nazi plunder of raw materials began even before the German invasion had concluded. In October 1939, Hans Frank, future Governor-General of occupied Poland, stated that the Nazis intended a \"ruthless exploitation\" of Poland's \"supplies, raw materials, machines, [and] factory instillation.\" Frank went on to state that \"Poland shall be treated as a colony. The Poles shall be the slaves of the Greater German Reich.\"\n\nFollowing Operation Barbarossa, the Soviet Union was also plundered. In 1943 alone, 9,000,000 tons of cereals, of fodder, of potatoes, and of meats were sent back to Germany. During the course of Germany's occupation of Soviet territory, some 12 million pigs and 13 million sheep had been taken. The total value of this plunder is estimated at 4 billion Reichsmarks. This relatively low number in comparison to the occupied nations of Western Europe can be attributed to the devastating fighting on the Eastern Front.\n\nRacism and antisemitism were basic tenets of the NSDAP and the Nazi regime. Nazi Germany's racial policy was based on their belief in the existence of a superior master race. The Nazis postulated the existence of a racial conflict between the Aryan master race and inferior races, particularly Jews, who were viewed as a mixed race that had infiltrated society and were responsible for the exploitation and repression of the Aryan race.\n\nDiscrimination against Jews began immediately after the seizure of power. Following a month-long series of attacks by members of the SA on Jewish businesses and synagogues, on 1 April 1933 Hitler declared a national boycott of Jewish businesses. The Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service passed on 7 April and forced all non-Aryan civil servants to retire from the legal profession and civil service. Similar legislation soon deprived other Jewish professionals of their right to practise, and on 11 April a decree was promulgated that stated anyone who had even one Jewish parent or grandparent was considered non-Aryan. As part of the drive to remove Jewish influence from cultural life, members of the National Socialist Student League removed from libraries any books considered un-German, and a nationwide book burning was held on 10 May.\n\nThe regime used violence and economic pressure to encourage Jews to voluntarily leave the country. Jewish businesses were denied access to markets, forbidden to advertise, and deprived of access to government contracts. Citizens were harassed and subjected to violent attacks. Many towns posted signs forbidding entry to Jews.\n\nIn November 1938 a young Jewish man requested an interview with the German ambassador in Paris and met with a legation secretary, whom he shot and killed to protest his family's treatment in Germany. This incident provided the pretext for a pogrom the NSDAP incited against the Jews on 9 November 1938. Members of the SA damaged or destroyed synagogues and Jewish property throughout Germany. At least 91 German Jews were killed during this pogrom, later called \"Kristallnacht\", the Night of Broken Glass. Further restrictions were imposed on Jews in the coming months – they were forbidden to own businesses or work in retail shops, drive cars, go to the cinema, visit the library or own weapons, and Jewish pupils were removed from schools. The Jewish community was fined one billion marks to pay for the damage caused by \"Kristallnacht\" and told that any insurance settlements would be confiscated. By 1939, around 250,000 of Germany's 437,000 Jews had emigrated to the United States, Argentina, Great Britain, Palestine, and other countries. Many chose to stay in continental Europe. Emigrants to Palestine were allowed to transfer property there under the terms of the Haavara Agreement, but those moving to other countries had to leave virtually all their property behind, and it was seized by the government.\n\nLike the Jews, the Romani or Gypsy people were subjected to persecution from the early days of the regime. The Romani were forbidden to marry people of German extraction. They were also shipped to concentration camps starting in 1935 and killed in large numbers. Following the invasion of Poland, 2,500 Roma and Sinti people were deported from Germany to the General Government where they were imprisoned in labour camps. The survivors were likely exterminated at Bełżec, Sobibor, or Treblinka. A further 5,000 Sinti and Austrian Lalleri people were deported to the Łódź Ghetto in late 1941, where half were estimated to have died. The Romani survivors of the ghetto were subsequently moved to the Chełmno extermination camp in early 1942.\n\nThe Nazis intended on deporting all Romani people from Germany, and confined them to \"Zigeunerlager\" (Gypsy camps) for this purpose. Himmler ordered their deportation from Germany in December 1942, with few exceptions. A total of 23,000 Romani were deported to Auschwitz concentration camp, of whom 19,000 died. Outside of Germany, the Romani people were regularly used for forced labour, though many were killed. In the Baltic states and the Soviet Union, 30,000 Romani were killed by the SS, the German Army, and \"Einsatzgruppen\". In occupied Serbia, 1,000 to 12,000 Romani were killed, while nearly all 25,000 Romani living in the Independent State of Croatia were killed. The estimates at end of the war put the total death toll at around 220,000, which equalled approximately 25 percent of the Romani population in Europe.\n\nAction T4 was a programme of systematic murder of the physically and mentally handicapped and patients in psychiatric hospitals that took place mainly from 1939 to 1941, and continued until the end of the war. Initially the victims were shot by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" and others; gas chambers and gas vans using carbon monoxide were used by early 1940. Under the Law for the Prevention of Genetically Diseased Offspring, enacted on 14 July 1933, over 400,000 individuals underwent compulsory sterilisation. Over half were those considered mentally deficient, which included not only people who scored poorly on intelligence tests, but those who deviated from expected standards of behaviour regarding thrift, sexual behaviour, and cleanliness. Most of the victims came from disadvantaged groups such as prostitutes, the poor, the homeless, and criminals. Other groups persecuted and killed included Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals, social misfits, and members of the political and religious opposition.\n\nGermany's war in the East was based on Hitler's long-standing view that Jews were the great enemy of the German people and that \"Lebensraum\" was needed for Germany's expansion. Hitler focused his attention on Eastern Europe, aiming to defeat Poland and the Soviet Union. After the occupation of Poland in 1939, all Jews living in the General Government area were confined to ghettos and those who were physically fit were required to perform compulsory labour. In 1941 Hitler decided to destroy the Polish nation completely; within 15 to 20 years the General Government was to be cleared of ethnic Poles and resettled by German colonists. About 3.8 to 4 million Poles would remain as slaves, part of a slave labour force of 14 million the Nazis intended to create using citizens of conquered nations.\n\nThe \"Generalplan Ost\" (\"General Plan for the East\") called for deporting the population of occupied Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union to Siberia, for use as slave labour or to be murdered. To determine who should be killed, Himmler created the \"Volksliste\", a system of classification of people deemed to be of German blood. He ordered that those of Germanic descent who refused to be classified as ethnic Germans should be deported to concentration camps, have their children taken away, or be assigned to forced labour. The plan also included the kidnapping of children deemed to have Aryan-Nordic traits, who were presumed to be of German descent. The goal was to implement \"Generalplan Ost\" after the conquest of the Soviet Union, but when the invasion failed Hitler had to consider other options. One suggestion was a mass forced deportation of Jews to Poland, Palestine, or Madagascar.\n\nIn addition to eliminating Jews, the Nazis planned to reduce the population of the conquered territories by 30 million people through starvation in an action called the Hunger Plan. Food supplies would be diverted to the German army and German civilians. Cities would be razed and the land allowed to return to forest or resettled by German colonists. Together, the Hunger Plan and \"Generalplan Ost\" would have led to the starvation of 80 million people in the Soviet Union. These partially fulfilled plans resulted in the democidal deaths of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war (POWs). During the course of the war, the Soviet Union lost a total of 27 million people; less than nine million of these were combat deaths. One in four of the Soviet population were killed or wounded.\n\nAround the time of the failed offensive against Moscow in December 1941, Hitler resolved that the Jews of Europe were to be exterminated immediately. While the murder of Jewish civilians had been ongoing in the occupied territories of Poland and the Soviet Union, plans for the total eradication of the Jewish population of Europe—eleven million people—were formalised at the Wannsee Conference on 20 January 1942. Some would be worked to death and the rest would be killed in the implementation of the Final Solution to the Jewish Question. There was a progression in methods in how the victims were killed. Initially the victims were killed by \"Einsatzgruppen\" firing squads, then by stationary gas chambers or by gas vans, but these methods proved impractical for an operation of this scale. By 1942 extermination camps equipped with gas chambers were established at Auschwitz, Chełmno, Sobibor, Treblinka, and elsewhere. The total number of Jews murdered is estimated at 5.5 to six million, including over a million children.\n\nThe Allies received information about the murders from the Polish government-in-exile and Polish leadership in Warsaw, based mostly on intelligence from the Polish underground. German citizens also had access to information about what was happening, as soldiers returning from the occupied territories would report on what they had seen and done. Historian Richard J. Evans states that most German citizens disapproved of the genocide.\n\nPoles were viewed by Nazis as subhuman non-Aryans, and during the German occupation of Poland 2.7 million ethnic Poles were killed. Polish civilians were subject to forced labour in German industry, internment, wholesale expulsions to make way for German colonists, and mass executions. The German authorities engaged in a systematic effort to destroy Polish culture and national identity. During operation AB-Aktion, many university professors and members of the Polish intelligentsia were arrested, transported to concentration camps, or executed. During the war, Poland lost an estimated 39 to 45 percent of its physicians and dentists, 26 to 57 percent of its lawyers, 15 to 30 percent of its teachers, 30 to 40 percent of its scientists and university professors and 18 to 28 percent of its clergy.\n\nDuring the course of the war, the Nazis captured 5.75 million Soviet prisoners of war (POWs), more than were captured by the Germans from all the other Allied powers combined. Of these, an estimated 3.3 million were killed by the Nazis, with 2.8 million of them being killed between June 1941 and January 1942. Many POWs starved to death or resorted to cannibalism while being held in open-air pens at Auschwitz and elsewhere.\n\nFrom 1942 onward, Soviet POWs were viewed as a source of forced labour, and received better treatment so they could work. By December 1944, 750,000 Soviet POWs were working, including in German armaments factories (in violation of the Hague and Geneva conventions), mines, and farms.\n\nAntisemitic legislation passed in 1933 led to the removal of all Jewish teachers, professors and officials from the education system. Most teachers were required to belong to the \"Nationalsozialistischer Lehrerbund\" (NSLB; National Socialist Teachers League) and university professors were required to join the National Socialist German Lecturers. Teachers had to take an oath of loyalty and obedience to Hitler and those who failed to show sufficient conformity to party ideals were often reported by students or fellow teachers and dismissed. Lack of funding for salaries led to many teachers leaving the profession and the average class size increased from 37 in 1927 to 43 in 1938 due to the resulting teacher shortage.\n\nFrequent and often contradictory directives were issued by Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick, Bernhard Rust of the \"Reichserziehungsministerium\" (Ministry of Education), and various other agencies regarding content of lessons and acceptable textbooks for use in primary and secondary schools. Books deemed unacceptable to the regime were removed from school libraries. Indoctrination in National Socialist thought was made compulsory in January 1934. Students selected as future members of the party elite were indoctrinated from the age of 12 at Adolf Hitler Schools for primary education and National Political Institutes of Education for secondary education. Detailed National Socialist indoctrination of future holders of elite military rank was undertaken at Order Castles.\n\nPrimary and secondary education focused on racial biology, population policy, culture, geography, and especially physical fitness. The curriculum in most subjects, including biology, geography and even arithmetic, was altered to change the focus to race. Military education became the central component of physical education and education in physics was oriented toward subjects with military applications, such as ballistics and aerodynamics. Students were required to watch all films prepared by the school division of the \"Propagandaministerium\" (Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda).\n\nAt universities, appointments to top posts were the subject of power struggles between the education ministry, the university boards, and the National Socialist German Students' League. In spite of pressure from the League and various government ministries, most university professors did not make changes to their lectures or syllabus during the Nazi period. This was especially true of universities located in predominantly Catholic regions. Enrolment at German universities declined from 104,000 students in 1931 to 41,000 in 1939, but enrolment in medical schools rose sharply as Jewish doctors had been forced to leave the profession, so medical graduates had good job prospects. From 1934, university students were required to attend frequent and time-consuming military training sessions run by the SA. First-year students also had to serve six months in a labour camp for the \"Reichsarbeitsdienst\" (National Labour Service); an additional ten weeks service were required of second-year students.\n\nWomen were a cornerstone of Nazi social policy and the Nazis opposed the feminist movement, claiming that it was the creation of Jewish intellectuals, instead advocating a patriarchal society in which the German woman would recognise that her \"world is her husband, her family, her children, and her home\". Soon after the seizure of power, feminist groups were shut down or incorporated into the National Socialist Women's League, which coordinated groups throughout the country to promote motherhood and household activities. Courses were offered on childrearing, sewing and cooking. Prominent feminists, including Anita Augspurg, Lida Gustava Heymann and Helene Stöcker, felt forced to live in exile. The League published the \"NS-Frauen-Warte\", the only NSDAP-approved women's magazine in Nazi Germany; despite some propaganda aspects, it was predominantly an ordinary woman's magazine.\n\nWomen were encouraged to leave the workforce, and the creation of large families by racially suitable women was promoted through a propaganda campaign. Women received a bronze award—known as the \"Ehrenkreuz der Deutschen Mutter\" (Cross of Honour of the German Mother)—for giving birth to four children, silver for six and gold for eight or more. Large families received subsidies to help with their utilities, school fees and household expenses. Though the measures led to increases in the birth rate, the number of families having four or more children declined by five percent between 1935 and 1940. Removing women from the workforce did not have the intended effect of freeing up jobs for men as women were for the most part employed as domestic servants, weavers or in the food and drink industries—jobs that were not of interest to men. Nazi philosophy prevented large numbers of women from being hired to work in munitions factories in the build-up to the war, so foreign labourers were brought in. After the war started, slave labourers were extensively used. In January 1943, Hitler signed a decree requiring all women under the age of fifty to report for work assignments to help the war effort. Thereafter women were funnelled into agricultural and industrial jobs and by September 1944 14.9 million women were working in munitions production.\n\nThe Nazi regime discouraged women from seeking higher education since Nazi leaders held conservative views about women and endorsed the idea that rational and theoretical work was alien to a woman's nature since they were considered inherently emotional and instinctive – as such, engaging in academics and careerism would only \"divert them from motherhood\". The number of women allowed to enroll in universities dropped drastically, as a law passed in April 1933 limited the number of females admitted to university to ten percent of the number of male attendees. Female enrolment in secondary schools dropped from 437,000 in 1926 to 205,000 in 1937. The number of women enrolled in post-secondary schools dropped from 128,000 in 1933 to 51,000 in 1938. However, with the requirement that men be enlisted into the armed forces during the war, women comprised half of the enrolment in the post-secondary system by 1944.\n\nWomen were expected to be strong, healthy and vital. The sturdy peasant woman who worked the land and bore strong children was considered ideal and athletic women were praised for being tanned from working outdoors. Organisations were created for the indoctrination of Nazi values and from 25 March 1939 membership in the Hitler Youth became compulsory for all children over the age of ten. The \"Jungmädelbund\" (Young Girls League) section of the Hitler Youth was for girls age 10 to 14 and the \"Bund Deutscher Mädel\" (BDM; League of German Girls) was for young women age 14 to 18. The BDM's activities focused on physical education, with activities such as running, long jumping, somersaulting, tightrope walking, marching and swimming.\n\nThe Nazi regime promoted a liberal code of conduct regarding sexual matters and was sympathetic to women who bore children out of wedlock. Promiscuity increased as the war progressed, with unmarried soldiers often intimately involved with several women simultaneously. Soldier's wives were frequently involved in extramarital relationships. Sex was sometimes used as a commodity to obtain better work from a foreign labourer. Pamphlets enjoined German women to avoid sexual relations with foreign workers as a danger to their blood.\n\nWith Hitler's approval, Himmler intended that the new society of the Nazi regime should destigmatise illegitimate births, particularly of children fathered by members of the SS, who were vetted for racial purity. His hope was that each SS family would have between four and six children. The \"Lebensborn\" (Fountain of Life) association, founded by Himmler in 1935, created a series of maternity homes where single mothers could be accommodated during their pregnancies. Both parents were examined for racial suitability before acceptance. The resulting children were often adopted into SS families. The homes were also made available to the wives of SS and NSDAP members, who quickly filled over half the available spots.\n\nExisting laws banning abortion except for medical reasons were strictly enforced by the Nazi regime. The number of abortions declined from 35,000 per year at the start of the 1930s to fewer than 2,000 per year at the end of the decade, though in 1935 a law was passed allowing abortions for eugenics reasons.\n\nNazi Germany had a strong anti-tobacco movement as pioneering research by Franz H. Müller in 1939 demonstrated a causal link between tobacco smoking and lung cancer. The Reich Health Office took measures to try to limit smoking, including producing lectures and pamphlets. Smoking was banned in many workplaces, on trains and among on-duty members of the military. Government agencies also worked to control other carcinogenic substances such as asbestos and pesticides. As part of a general public health campaign, water supplies were cleaned up, lead and mercury were removed from consumer products and women were urged to undergo regular screenings for breast cancer.\n\nGovernment-run health care insurance plans were available, but Jews were denied coverage starting in 1933. That same year, Jewish doctors were forbidden to treat government-insured patients. In 1937, Jewish doctors were forbidden to treat non-Jewish patients and in 1938 their right to practice medicine was removed entirely.\n\nMedical experiments, many of them pseudoscientific, were performed on concentration camp inmates beginning in 1941. The most notorious doctor to perform medical experiments was SS-\"Hauptsturmführer\" Dr. Josef Mengele, camp doctor at Auschwitz. Many of his victims died or were intentionally killed. Concentration camp inmates were made available for purchase by pharmaceutical companies for drug testing and other experiments.\n\nNazi society had elements supportive of animal rights and many people were fond of zoos and wildlife. The government took several measures to ensure the protection of animals and the environment. In 1933, the Nazis enacted a stringent animal-protection law that affected what was allowed for medical research. However, the law was only loosely enforced and in spite of a ban on vivisection the Ministry of the Interior readily handed out permits for experiments on animals.\n\nThe Reich Forestry Office under Göring enforced regulations that required foresters to plant a wide variety of trees to ensure suitable habitat for wildlife and a new Reich Animal Protection Act became law in 1933. The regime enacted the Reich Nature Protection Act in 1935 to protect the natural landscape from excessive economic development and it allowed for the expropriation of privately owned land to create nature preserves and aided in long-range planning. Perfunctory efforts were made to curb air pollution, but little enforcement of existing legislation was undertaken once the war began.\n\nWhen the Nazis seized power in 1933, roughly 67 percent of the population of Germany was Protestant, 33 percent was Roman Catholic, while Jews made up less than 1 percent. According to 1939 census, 54 percent considered themselves Protestant, 40 percent Roman Catholic, 3.5 percent \"Gottgläubig\" (God-believing; a Nazi religious movement) and 1.5 percent nonreligious.\n\nUnder the \"Gleichschaltung\" process, Hitler attempted to create a unified Protestant Reich Church from Germany's 28 existing Protestant state churches, with the ultimate goal of eradication of the churches in Germany. Pro-Nazi Ludwig Müller was installed as Reich Bishop and the pro-Nazi pressure group German Christians gained control of the new church. They objected to the Old Testament because of its Jewish origins and demanded that converted Jews be barred from their church. Pastor Martin Niemöller responded with the formation of the Confessing Church, from which some clergymen opposed the Nazi regime. When in 1935 the Confessing Church synod protested the Nazi policy on religion, 700 of their pastors were arrested. Müller resigned and Hitler appointed Hanns Kerrl as Minister for Church Affairs to continue efforts to control Protestantism. In 1936, a Confessing Church envoy protested to Hitler against the religious persecutions and human rights abuses. Hundreds more pastors were arrested. The church continued to resist and by early 1937 Hitler abandoned his hope of uniting the Protestant churches. Niemöller was arrested on 1 July 1937 and spent most of the next seven years in Sachsenhausen concentration camp and Dachau. Theological universities were closed and pastors and theologians of other Protestant denominations were also arrested.\n\nPersecution of the Catholic Church in Germany followed the Nazi takeover. Hitler moved quickly to eliminate political Catholicism, rounding up functionaries of the Catholic-aligned Bavarian People's Party and Catholic Centre Party, which along with all other non-Nazi political parties ceased to exist by July. The \"Reichskonkordat\" (Reich Concordat) treaty with the Vatican was signed in 1933, amid continuing harassment of the church in Germany. The treaty required the regime to honour the independence of Catholic institutions and prohibited clergy from involvement in politics. Hitler routinely disregarded the Concordat, closing all Catholic institutions whose functions were not strictly religious. Clergy, nuns and lay leaders were targeted, with thousands of arrests over the ensuing years, often on trumped-up charges of currency smuggling or immorality. Several Catholic leaders were targeted in the 1934 Night of the Long Knives assassinations. Most Catholic youth groups refused to dissolve themselves and Hitler Youth leader Baldur von Schirach encouraged members to attack Catholic boys in the streets. Propaganda campaigns claimed the church was corrupt, restrictions were placed on public meetings and Catholic publications faced censorship. Catholic schools were required to reduce religious instruction and crucifixes were removed from state buildings. \n\nPope Pius XI had the \"Mit brennender Sorge\" (\"With Burning Concern\") encyclical smuggled into Germany for Passion Sunday 1937 and read from every pulpit as it denounced the systematic hostility of the regime toward the church. In response, Goebbels renewed the regime's crackdown and propaganda against Catholics. Enrolment in denominational schools dropped sharply and by 1939 all such schools were disbanded or converted to public facilities. Later Catholic protests included the 22 March 1942 pastoral letter by the German bishops on \"The Struggle against Christianity and the Church\". About 30 percent of Catholic priests were disciplined by police during the Nazi era. A vast security network spied on the activities of clergy and priests were frequently denounced, arrested or sent to concentration camps – many to the dedicated clergy barracks at Dachau. In the areas of Poland annexed in 1939, the Nazis instigated a brutal suppression and systematic dismantling of the Catholic Church.\n\nAlfred Rosenberg, head of the NSDAP Office of Foreign Affairs and Hitler's appointed cultural and educational leader for Nazi Germany, considered Catholicism to be among the Nazis' chief enemies. He planned the \"extermination of the foreign Christian faiths imported into Germany\", and for the Bible and Christian cross to be replaced in all churches, cathedrals, and chapels with copies of \"Mein Kampf\" and the swastika. Other sects of Christianity were also targeted, with Chief of the NSDAP Chancellery Martin Bormann publicly proclaiming in 1941, \"National Socialism and Christianity are irreconcilable.\" Shirer writes that opposition to Christianity within NSDAP leadership was so pronounced that, \"the Nazi regime intended to eventually destroy Christianity in Germany, if it could, and substitute the old paganism of the early tribal Germanic gods and the new paganism of the Nazi extremists.\"\n\nWhile no unified resistance movement opposing the Nazi regime existed, acts of defiance such as sabotage and labour slowdowns took place, as well as attempts to overthrow the regime or assassinate Hitler. The banned Communist and Social Democratic parties set up resistance networks in the mid-1930s. These networks achieved little beyond fomenting unrest and initiating short-lived strikes. Carl Friedrich Goerdeler, who initially supported Hitler, changed his mind in 1936 and was later a participant in the July 20 plot. The Red Orchestra spy ring provided information to the Allies about Nazi war crimes, helped orchestrate escapes from Germany, and distributed leaflets. The group was detected by the Gestapo and more than 50 members were tried and executed in 1942. Communist and Social Democratic resistance groups resumed activity in late 1942, but were unable to achieve much beyond distributing leaflets. The two groups saw themselves as potential rival parties in post-war Germany, and for the most part did not co-ordinate their activities. The White Rose resistance group was primarily active in 1942–43, and many of its members were arrested or executed, with the final arrests taking place in 1944. Another civilian resistance group, the Kreisau Circle, had some connections with the military conspirators, and many of its members were arrested after the failed July 20 plot.\n\nWhile civilian efforts had an impact on public opinion, the army was the only organisation with the capacity to overthrow the government. A major plot by men in the upper echelons of the military originated in 1938. They believed Britain would go to war over Hitler's planned invasion of Czechoslovakia, and Germany would lose. The plan was to overthrow Hitler or possibly assassinate him. Participants included Generaloberst Ludwig Beck, Generaloberst Walther von Brauchitsch, Generaloberst Franz Halder, Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, and Generalleutnant Erwin von Witzleben, who joined a conspiracy headed by Oberstleutnant Hans Oster and Major Helmuth Groscurth of the Abwehr. The planned coup was cancelled after the signing of the Munich Agreement in September 1938. Many of the same people were involved in a coup planned for 1940, but again the participants changed their minds and backed down, partly because of the popularity of the regime after the early victories in the war. Attempts to assassinate Hitler resumed in earnest in 1943, with Henning von Tresckow joining Oster's group and attempting to blow up Hitler's plane in 1943. Several more attempts followed before the failed 20 July 1944 plot, which was at least partly motivated by the increasing prospect of a German defeat in the war. The plot, part of Operation Valkyrie, involved Claus von Stauffenberg planting a bomb in the conference room at Wolf's Lair at Rastenburg. Hitler, who narrowly survived, later ordered savage reprisals resulting in the execution of more than 4,900 people.\n\nThe regime promoted the concept of \"Volksgemeinschaft\", a national German ethnic community. The goal was to build a classless society based on racial purity and the perceived need to prepare for warfare, conquest and a struggle against Marxism. The German Labour Front founded the \"Kraft durch Freude\" (KdF; Strength Through Joy) organisation in 1933. As well as taking control of tens of thousands of privately run recreational clubs, it offered highly regimented holidays and entertainment such as cruises, vacation destinations and concerts.\n\nThe \"Reichskulturkammer\" (Reich Chamber of Culture) was organised under the control of the Propaganda Ministry in September 1933. Sub-chambers were set up to control aspects of cultural life such as film, radio, newspapers, fine arts, music, theatre and literature. Members of these professions were required to join their respective organisation. Jews and people considered politically unreliable were prevented from working in the arts, and many emigrated. Books and scripts had to be approved by the Propaganda Ministry prior to publication. Standards deteriorated as the regime sought to use cultural outlets exclusively as propaganda media.\n\nRadio became popular in Germany during the 1930s; over 70 percent of households owned a receiver by 1939, more than any other country. By July 1933, radio station staffs were purged of leftists and others deemed undesirable. Propaganda and speeches were typical radio fare immediately after the seizure of power, but as time went on Goebbels insisted that more music be played so that listeners would not turn to foreign broadcasters for entertainment.\n\nNewspapers, like other media, were controlled by the state; the Reich Press Chamber shut down or bought newspapers and publishing houses. By 1939, over two thirds of the newspapers and magazines were directly owned by the Propaganda Ministry. The NSDAP daily newspaper, the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" (\"Ethnic Observer\"), was edited by Rosenberg, who also wrote \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\", a book of racial theories espousing Nordic superiority. Goebbels controlled the wire services and insisted that all newspapers in Germany only publish content favourable to the regime. Under Goebbels, the Propaganda Ministry issued two dozen directives every week on exactly what news should be published and what angles to use; the typical newspaper followed the directives closely, especially regarding what to omit. Newspaper readership plummeted, partly because of the decreased quality of the content and partly because of the surge in popularity of radio. Propaganda became less effective towards the end of the war, as people were able to obtain information outside of official channels.\n\nAuthors of books left the country in droves and some wrote material critical of the regime while in exile. Goebbels recommended that the remaining authors concentrate on books themed on Germanic myths and the concept of blood and soil. By the end of 1933, over a thousand books—most of them by Jewish authors or featuring Jewish characters—had been banned by the Nazi regime. Nazi book burnings took place; nineteen such events were held on the night of 10 May 1933. Tens of thousands of books from dozens of figures, including Albert Einstein, Sigmund Freud, Helen Keller, Alfred Kerr, Marcel Proust, Erich Maria Remarque, Upton Sinclair, Jakob Wassermann, H. G. Wells, and Émile Zola were publicly burned. Pacifist works, and literature espousing liberal, democratic values were targeted for destruction, as well as any writings supporting the Weimar Republic or those written by Jewish authors.\n\nHitler took a personal interest in architecture and worked closely with state architects Paul Troost and Albert Speer to create public buildings in a neoclassical style based on Roman architecture. Speer constructed imposing structures such as the Nazi party rally grounds in Nuremberg and a new Reich Chancellery building in Berlin. Hitler's plans for rebuilding Berlin included a gigantic dome based on the Pantheon in Rome and a triumphal arch more than double the height of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. Neither structure was built.\n\nHitler's belief that abstract, Dadaist, expressionist and modern art were decadent became the basis for policy. Many art museum directors lost their posts in 1933 and were replaced by party members. Some 6,500 modern works of art were removed from museums and replaced with works chosen by a Nazi jury. Exhibitions of the rejected pieces, under titles such as \"Decadence in Art\", were launched in sixteen different cities by 1935. The Degenerate Art Exhibition, organised by Goebbels, ran in Munich from July to November 1937. The exhibition proved wildly popular, attracting over two million visitors.\n\nComposer Richard Strauss was appointed president of the \"Reichsmusikkammer\" (Reich Music Chamber) on its founding in November 1933. As was the case with other art forms, the Nazis ostracised musicians who were deemed racially unacceptable and for the most part disapproved of music that was too modern or atonal. Jazz was considered especially inappropriate and foreign jazz musicians left the country or were expelled. Hitler favoured the music of Richard Wagner, especially pieces based on Germanic myths and heroic stories, and attended the Bayreuth Festival each year from 1933 to 1942.\n\nMovies were popular in Germany in the 1930s and 1940s, with admissions of over a billion people in 1942, 1943 and 1944. By 1934, German regulations restricting currency exports made it impossible for US film makers to take their profits back to America, so the major film studios closed their German branches. Exports of German films plummeted, as their antisemitic content made them impossible to show in other countries. The two largest film companies, Universum Film AG and Tobis, were purchased by the Propaganda Ministry, which by 1939 was producing most German films. The productions were not always overtly propagandistic, but generally had a political subtext and followed party lines regarding themes and content. Scripts were pre-censored.\n\nLeni Riefenstahl's \"Triumph of the Will\" (1935)—documenting the 1934 Nuremberg Rally—and \"Olympia\" (1938)—covering the 1936 Summer Olympics—pioneered techniques of camera movement and editing that influenced later films. New techniques such as telephoto lenses and cameras mounted on tracks were employed. Both films remain controversial, as their aesthetic merit is inseparable from their propagandising of National Socialist ideals.\n\nThe Allied powers organised war crimes trials, beginning with the Nuremberg trials, held from November 1945 to October 1946, of 23 top Nazi officials. They were charged with four counts—conspiracy to commit crimes, crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes against humanity—in violation of international laws governing warfare. All but three of the defendants were found guilty and twelve were sentenced to death. Twelve Subsequent Nuremberg trials of 184 defendants were held between 1946 and 1949. Between 1946 and 1949, the Allies investigated 3,887 cases, of which 489 were brought to trial. The result was convictions of 1,426 people; 297 of these were sentenced to death and 279 to life in prison, with the remainder receiving lesser sentences. About 65 percent of the death sentences were carried out. Poland was more active than other nations in investigating war crimes, for example prosecuting 673 of the total 789 Auschwitz staff brought to trial.\n\nThe political programme espoused by Hitler and the NSDAP brought about a world war, leaving behind a devastated and impoverished Europe. Germany itself suffered wholesale destruction, characterised as \"Stunde Null\" (Zero Hour). The number of civilians killed during the Second World War was unprecedented in the history of warfare. As a result, Nazi ideology and the actions taken by the regime are almost universally regarded as gravely immoral. Historians, philosophers, and politicians often use the word \"evil\" to describe Hitler and the Nazi regime. Interest in Nazi Germany continues in the media and the academic world. While Evans remarks that the era \"exerts an almost universal appeal because its murderous racism stands as a warning to the whole of humanity\", young neo-Nazis enjoy the shock value the use Nazi symbols or slogans provides. The display or use of Nazi symbolism such as flags, swastikas, or greetings is illegal in Germany and Austria.\n\nThe process of denazification, which was initiated by the Allies as a way to remove Nazi Party members was only partially successful, as the need for experts in such fields as medicine and engineering was too great. However, expression of Nazi views was frowned upon, and those who expressed such views were frequently dismissed from their jobs. From the immediate post-war period through the 1950s, people avoided talking about the Nazi regime or their own wartime experiences. While virtually every family suffered losses during the war has a story to tell, Germans kept quiet about their experiences and felt a sense of communal guilt, even if they were not directly involved in war crimes.\n\nThe trial of Adolf Eichmann in 1961 and the broadcast of the television miniseries \"Holocaust\" in 1979 brought the process of \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" (coping with the past) to the forefront for many Germans. Once study of Nazi Germany was introduced into the school curriculum starting in the 1970s, people began researching the experiences of their family members. Study of the era and a willingness to critically examine its mistakes has led to the development of a strong democracy in Germany, but with lingering undercurrents of antisemitism and neo-Nazi thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6087683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6087683", "title": "Ontotheology", "text": "Ontotheology\n\nOntotheology means the ontology of God and/or the theology of being. While the term was first used by Immanuel Kant, it has only come into broader philosophical parlance with the significance it took for Martin Heidegger's later thought. While, for Heidegger, the term is used to critique the whole tradition of 'Western metaphysics', much recent scholarship has sought to question whether 'ontotheology' developed at a certain point in the metaphysical tradition, with many seeking to equate the development of 'ontotheological' thinking with the development of modernity, and Duns Scotus often being cited as the first 'ontotheologian'.\n\nThe term \"ontotheology\" was coined by Immanuel Kant in direct conjunction with the term cosmotheology, \"in order to distinguish between two competing types of 'transcendental theology'.\" The word's origin is often, mistakenly perhaps, associated with Heidegger who used the term quite frequently.\n\nAt the broadest level Kant had distinguished two general types of theology: that which comes from reason and that of revelation. Within the category of reasoned theology he distinguished two further types, \"natural theology\" and \"transcendental theology\". Within natural theology, Kant differentiated between \"physico-theology\" and an ethical or moral theology. Transcendental theology or reasoned-based theology, he divided into ontotheology and cosmotheology.\n\nOntotheology, according to Kant (as interpreted by Iain Thomson), \"was the type of transcendental theology characteristic of Anselm of Canterbury's ontological argument which believes it can know the existence of an original being [\"Urwesen\"], through mere concepts, without the help of any experience whatsoever\". Kant himself defined the relationship between ontotheology and cosmostheology as follows: \"Transcendental theology aims either at inferring the existence of a Supreme Being from a general experience, without any closer reference to the world to which this experience belongs, and in this case it is called cosmotheology; or it endeavours to cognize the existence of such a being, through mere conceptions, without the aid of experience, and is then termed ontotheology.\"\n\nKant thus distinguishes between rationally-oriented (ontotheological) and empirically-oriented (cosmotheological) discussion. Consistently with Kant's definition, philosophical and theological writers sometimes use the words \"ontotheology\" or \"ontotheological\" to refer to the metaphysical or theological views characteristic of many rationalist philosophers. Heidegger, discussed below, later argued for a broader definition of the word ontotheology.\n\nFor Martin Heidegger, ontotheology took on quite a different meaning; for him, ontotheology is fundamentally the same as all metaphysics. This he argues in \"Being and Time\", his later essay on \"The End of Metaphysics\", in his Introduction of 1949 to his \"Was ist Metaphysik?\", and in his most systematic treatment of the problem of ontotheology, \"Identity and Difference, \"(1957).\n\nFor Heidegger ontotheology contributes to the oblivion or forgetfulness of Being. Indeed, \"metaphysics is onto-theo-logy,\" and Western metaphysics \"since the beginning with the Greeks has eminently been both ontology and theology.\" The problem with this intermixing of ontology and theology according to Heidegger's analysis, and the reason why Heidegger and his successors sought to overcome it, is at least twofold.\n\nFirst, by linking the philosophical with the theological, and vice versa, the distinctiveness of each respective discourse is clouded over. As such, the nature of philosophy as a factually unknown and structurally unknowable path of thought is restricted by an economy of faith. Likewise with theology, as the science of faith, theology at its best testifies to the irreducible mystery of its source in revelation and to the unapproachable and incomprehensible aim of its desire in God. However, once theology becomes onto-theological that mysterious source and incomprehensible aim are reduced to the order of beings.\n\nSecond, and on a more fundamental level, the ontotheological problem is part and parcel of the overall degeneration of Western thought and the consequent troubles of Western technological culture. The problem in a nutshell is the human desire for mastery and ontotheology contributes to this by presuming knowledge regarding the \"first cause\" of philosophy and the \"highest being\" of theology.\n\nContemporary scholarship on ontotheology is divided between those who accept Heidegger’s analysis of the problem of ontotheology and continue his efforts at “overcoming ontotheology,” and those who are rethinking Heidegger's view and thus re-imagining the relationship between philosophy and theology and reconfiguring the conditions for philosophical theology.\n\nWith regard to the latter, which takes its cue from Jacques Derrida's statement that \"with or without the word being, Heidegger wrote a theology with and without God. He did what he said it would be necessary to avoid doing. He said, wrote, and allowed to be written exactly what he said he wanted to avoid.\"\n\nIndeed, Heidegger was careful to claim that his work was philosophical and not theological, and argued that a Christian philosophy or a phenomenological theology was an absurdity likened to a Protestant mathematics. However, through a certain reading by Derrida, Heidegger's sustained and comprehensive critique or \"destructuring\" of the Western philosophical tradition can be understood as also having some theological implications.\n\nBased upon this perspective, ontotheology is not so much a problem to be overcome as it is an inevitability of thought that is impossible to be avoided and that conditions all human inquiry, whether theological or philosophical in nature, or whether religious or secular in orientation. Yet Derrida claims in his essay \"différance\" that différance both exceeds and inscribes ontotheology.\n\nWith regard to theology, a number of Christian theologians, such as Brian Ingraffia, Bruce Ellis Benson, Merold Westphal, and Jean-Luc Marion have argued that a genuine biblical theology of revelation escapes the problem of ontotheology by giving priority to a specifically theological language as disclosed through scripture and as passed down through tradition. According to this perspective, the God of the Bible is fundamentally different from the God of philosophy, and thus, while the ontotheological problem sometimes eventuates in the pronouncement of the death of the moral-metaphysical God, this means little or nothing to the biblical portrait of the God of history who inspires and empowers the community of the faithful.\n\nThus many concepts have been considered to be the ultimate or absolute entity beneath all reality: Form, substance, essence, soul, geist or spirit/mind, extension, God, monads and can also be considered in some way as ontotheological in their reliance upon the metaphysics of presence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28248031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248031", "title": "Peter Kivy", "text": "Peter Kivy\n\nPeter Kivy (October 22, 1934 – May 6, 2017) was professor emeritus of musicology and philosophy at Rutgers University. He studied particularly the philosophy of music.\n\nKivy earned master's degrees in both philosophy (University of Michigan, 1958) and musicology (Yale University, 1960). He earned his PhD at Columbia University in 1966. He joined the faculty at Rutgers the following year, and became full professor in 1976. He taught there for his whole career except one year as a visiting professor at University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\nHis early work was on the 18th-century British aesthetics, and was influenced by Francis Hutcheson. From there he developed an interest in analytic aesthetics. From the late 1970s on, he had been interested mainly in music philosophy. His book \"The Corded Shell\" made him a central figure in music aesthetics.\n\nOne preoccupation of his had been the problem of what it means for instrumental music to \"express\" an emotion. His answer is that common emotions have physical behavioral expression in people that can be understood by appearance and imitated in music; thus, music cannot express more complex emotions that do not have an obvious behavioral expression. A similar position is followed by Stephen Davies.\n\nSome criticism of Kivy's ideas is available in \"Music, Philosophy, and Modernity\" (2007) by Andrew Bowie and \"Filosofía de la Música. Respuestas a Peter Kivy\" (2017, published in Spanish) by James O. Young.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13891422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13891422", "title": "Phenomenology (sociology)", "text": "Phenomenology (sociology)\n\nPhenomenology within sociology (Phenomenological sociology) is the study of the formal structures of concrete social existence as made available in and through the analytical description of acts of intentional consciousness. The object of such an analysis is the meaningful lived world of everyday life: the \"Lebenswelt\", or \"Life-world\". The task of phenomenological sociology, like that of every other phenomenological investigation, is to account for, or describe, the formal structures of this object of investigation in terms of subjectivity, as an object-constituted-in-and-for-consciousness. That which makes such a description different from the \"naive\" subjective descriptions of the man in the street, or those of the traditional social scientist, both operating in the natural attitude of everyday life, is the utilization of phenomenological methods.\n\nSocial phenomenologists talk about the social construction of reality. They view social order as a creation of everyday interaction, often looking at conversations to find the methods that people use to maintain social relations.\n\nThe leading exponent of Phenomenological Sociology was Alfred Schütz (1899–1959). Schütz sought to provide a critical philosophical foundation for Max Weber's interpretive sociology \"(verstehende Soziologie)\" by applying methods and insights derived from the phenomenological philosophy of Edmund Husserl (1859–1938) to the study of the social world. It is the building of this bridge between Husserlian phenomenology and Weberian sociology that serves as the starting point for contemporary phenomenological sociology. This does not mean, of course, that all versions of phenomenological sociology must be based on Weberian themes. In point of fact, there is some historical evidence [Dilthey's influence on Weber re: the former's theory of \"Weltanschauung\", and Husserl's influence on Dilthey re: the former's theory of meaning] that would support the argument that elements of Weberian sociology are themselves based on certain phenomenological themes; especially in regard to the theory of the intended meaning of an act, and ideas regarding theory and concept formation.\n\nWhile Husserl's work was directed at establishing the formal structures of intentional consciousness, Schütz's work was directed at establishing the formal structures of what he termed the Life-world. Husserl's work was conducted as a transcendental phenomenology of consciousness. Schütz's work was conducted as a mundane phenomenology of the social world. The difference in their respective projects rests at the level of analysis, the objects taken as a topic of study, and the type of phenomenological reduction that is employed for the purposes of analysis.\n\nUltimately these two distinct phenomenological projects should be seen as complementary, with the structures of the latter dependent on the structures of the former. That is, valid phenomenological descriptions of the formal structures of the life-world should be wholly consistent with the descriptions of the formal structures of intentional consciousness. It is from the latter that the former derives its validity, verifiability, and truth value. This is in keeping with Husserl's conception of phenomenology as \"First Philosophy\", the foundation, or ground, for both philosophy and all of the sciences.\n\nThe general thesis of the natural attitude is the ideational foundation for the fact-world of our straightforward, common sense social experience . It unites the world of individual objects into a unified world of meaning, which we assume is shared by any and all who share our culture (Schütz:1962) . It forms the underpinning for our thoughts and actions. It is the projected assumption, or belief, in a naturally occurring social world that is both factually objective in its existential status, and unquestioned in its \"natural\" appearance; social objects [persons, language, institutions, etc.] have the same existential \"thing\" status as objects occurring in nature [rocks, trees, and animals, etc.].\n\nAlthough it is often referred to as the \"General Thesis of the Natural Attitude\", it is not a thesis in the formal sense of the term, but a non-thematic assumption, or belief, that underlies our sense of the objectivity and facticity of the world, and the objects appearing in this world. The facticity of this world of common sense is both unquestioned and virtually \"unquestionable\"; it is sanctionable as to its status as that which \"is\", and that which \"everyone\", or, at least, \"any reasonable person\", agrees to be the case with regard to the factual character of the world.\n\nAs far as traditional social science is concerned, this taken-for-granted world of social facts is the starting and end point for any and all investigations of the social world. It provides the raw, observable, taken-for-granted \"data\" upon which the findings of the social sciences are idealized, conceptualized, and offered up for analysis and discourse. Within traditional social science, this \"data\" is formulated into a second order world of abstractions and idealizations constituted in accordance with these sciences' pre-determined interpretive schemes (Husserl:1989).\n\nSchutz's phenomenological descriptions are made from within the phenomenological attitude, after the phenomenological reduction [epoche], which serves to suspend this assumption, or belief, and reveal the phenomena occurring within the natural attitude as objects-for-consciousness.\n\nMartin Heidegger aptly characterizes Husserl's phenomenological research project as, \"...the analytic description of intentionality in its \"a priori\"\" (Heidegger:1992); as it is the phenomenon of intentionality which provides the mode of access for conducting any and all phenomenological investigations, and the ultimate ground or foundation guaranteeing any findings resulting from any such inquiry. In recognizing consciousness as having the formal structure of intentionality, as always having \"consciousness of\" an intended object, Husserlian phenomenology has located the access point to a radical new form of scientific description.\n\nMethodologically, access to this field is obtained through the phenomenological reduction. While there is some controversy as to the official name, number, and levels of the reduction, this internal argument among the philosophers need not concern us. For the purposes of a mundane phenomenology of the social world, we, as phenomenological social scientists, engage in a mundane phenomenological reduction called the Epoché. The hallmark of this form of the reduction is what it reveals about its field of inquiry: a mundane phenomenology of the social world defines its phenomenal field as the intersubjective region of mundane consciousness as appearing from within the natural attitude.\n\nThe phenomenological reduction as applied to a mundane analysis of the social world consists of the bracketing [equivalents: methodical disregard, putting out of play, suspension] of the thesis of the natural attitude. This bracketing is nothing more than a bracketing of the existential belief in the existence of the objective world; the existential status of the world itself is \"not\" called into question. The result of this bracketing is that our attention is shifted from the objects in the world as they occur in nature, to the objects in the world as they appear for consciousness - as phenomenon for intentional consciousness. Our descriptions of objects in the world are now transformed from the naive descriptions of objects as occurring in nature, to phenomenological descriptions of objects as appearing for consciousness. In short, for the purpose of a mundane phenomenological analysis within the natural attitude, the epoche transforms objects as occurring in nature into: objects-for-subjectivity, objects-for-consciousness, objects-as-intended.\n\nKeep in mind that for positivism, the meaning of an object is, by definition, \"objective\". That is, the meaning of the object is a property of the object itself, is independent of any particular observer, and \"the same\" for any and all observers regardless of their orientation or perspective. For phenomenology, an object is always intended, and constituted, as meaningful by a particular intending subject from a particular orientation and from a particular perspectival viewing point. In addition, phenomenologically speaking, the meaning of the object cannot be separated from its phenomenonality, or materiality, and cannot be constituted qua meaningful object without the meaning bestowing act of intending on the part of a constituting subject.\n\nFor a phenomenology undertaken within the natural attitude, meaning does not inherently accrue to an object as a thing-in-itself, is not an \"add-on\" to the object [a label], and is not separable from the object as constituted by the intending subject in the act of meaning constitution. For phenomenology, the meaning and the object [in its \"materiality\"] are co-constituted in the intending of the object by the subject - phenomenologically speaking there are only meaningful objects. There is no such thing as a neutrally valued object, or a meaningless object, and the notion of an object as \"nonsense\" is itself a meaningful determination - as the existentialists would say, we are condemned to meaning.\n\nNote that, because we as observers have already been born into an already-existing social world that is already pre-interpreted - through both social meanings and through architectural and business intentionality - and 'made meaningful-to-us' as an intersubjectively available \"entity\", any proposal that the subject is creating the object, or creating the meaning of the object as an individual achievement in a particular situation is a misrepresentation of what is actually taking place. Within the 'Natural Attitude of Everyday Life', the subject's role in the constitution of meaningful objects is better understood as a reading off, or interpretation, of the meaning from the object-as-intended. This reading off, or interpretation, of the object's meaning is an intersubjective achievement of the intending subject that takes place within the intersubjective realm of the natural attitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225761", "title": "Proxemics", "text": "Proxemics\n\nProxemics is the study of human use of space and the effects that population density has on behaviour, communication, and social interaction.\n\nProxemics is one among several subcategories in the study of nonverbal communication, including haptics (touch), kinesics (body movement), vocalics (paralanguage), and chronemics (structure of time).\n\nEdward T. Hall, the cultural anthropologist who coined the term in 1963, defined proxemics as \"the interrelated observations and theories of humans use of space as a specialized elaboration of culture\". In his foundational work on proxemics, \"The Hidden Dimension,\" Hall emphasized the impact of proxemic behavior (the use of space) on interpersonal communication. According to Hall, the study of proxemics is valuable in evaluating not only the way people interact with others in daily life, but also \"the organization of space in [their] houses and buildings, and ultimately the layout of [their] towns\". Proxemics remains a hidden component of interpersonal communication that is uncovered through observation and strongly influenced by culture.\n\nHall described the interpersonal distances of man (the relative distances between people) in four distinct zones: (1) intimate space, (2) personal space, (3) social space, and (4) public space.\n\n\nThe distance surrounding a person forms a space. The space within intimate distance and personal distance is called \"personal space\". The space within social distance and out of personal distance is called \"social space\". And the space within public distance is called \"public space\".\n\nPersonal space is the region surrounding a person which they regard as psychologically theirs. Most people value their personal space and feel discomfort, anger, or anxiety when their personal space is encroached. Permitting a person to enter personal space and entering somebody else's personal space are indicators of perception of those people's relationship. An intimate zone is reserved for close friends, lovers, children and close family members. Another zone is used for conversations with friends, to chat with associates, and in group discussions. A further zone is reserved for strangers, newly formed groups, and new acquaintances. A fourth zone is used for speeches, lectures, and theater; essentially, public distance is that range reserved for larger audiences.\n\nEntering somebody's personal space is normally an indication of familiarity and sometimes intimacy. However, in modern society, especially in crowded urban communities, it can be difficult to maintain personal space, for example when in a crowded train, elevator or street. Many people find such physical proximity to be psychologically disturbing and uncomfortable, though it is accepted as a fact of modern life. In an impersonal, crowded situation, eye contact tends to be avoided. Even in a crowded place, preserving personal space is important, and intimate and sexual contact, such as frotteurism and groping, is unacceptable physical contact.\n\nThe amygdala is suspected of processing people's strong reactions to personal space violations since these are absent in those in which it is damaged and it is activated when people are physically close. Research links the amygdala with emotional reactions to proximity to other people. First, it is activated by such proximity, and second, in those with complete bilateral damage to their amygdala, such as patient S.M., lack a sense of personal space boundary. As the researchers have noted: \"Our findings suggest that the amygdala may mediate the repulsive force that helps to maintain a minimum distance between people. Further, our findings are consistent with those in monkeys with bilateral amygdala lesions, who stay within closer proximity to other monkeys or people, an effect we suggest arises from the absence of strong emotional responses to personal space violation.\"\n\nA person's personal space is carried with them everywhere they go. It is the most inviolate form of territory. Body spacing and posture, according to Hall, are unintentional reactions to sensory fluctuations or shifts, such as subtle changes in the sound and pitch of a person's voice. Social distance between people is reliably correlated with physical distance, as are intimate and personal distance, according to the delineations below. Hall did not mean for these measurements to be strict guidelines that translate precisely to human behavior, but rather a system for gauging the effect of distance on communication and how the effect varies between cultures and other environmental factors.\n\nThe distances mentioned above are horizontal distance. There is also vertical distance that communicates something between people. In this case, however, vertical distance is often understood to convey the degree of dominance or sub-ordinance in a relationship. Looking up at or down on another person can be taken literally in many cases, with the higher person asserting greater status.\n\nTeachers, and especially those who work with small children, should realize that students will interact more comfortably with a teacher when they are in same vertical plane. Used in this way, an understanding of vertical distance can become a tool for improved teacher-student communication. On the other hand, a disciplinarian might put this information to use in order to gain psychological advantage over an unruly student.\n\nHall used biometric concepts to categorize, explain, and explore the ways people connect in space. These variations in positioning are impacted by a variety of nonverbal communicative factors, listed below.\n\n\nWhereas Hall's work uses human interactions to demonstrate spatial variation in proxemics, the field of neuropsychology describes personal space in terms of the kinds of \"nearness\" to an individual body.\n\nPrevic further subdivides extrapersonal space into \"focal-extrapersonal\" space, \"action-extrapersonal\" space, and \"ambient-extrapersonal\" space. Focal-extrapersonal space is located in the lateral temporo-frontal pathways at the center of our vision, is retinotopically centered and tied to the position of our eyes, and is involved in object search and recognition. Action-extrapersonal-space is located in the medial temporo-frontal pathways, spans the entire space, and is head-centered and involved in orientation and locomotion in topographical space. Action-extrapersonal space provides the \"presence\" of our world. Ambient-extrapersonal space initially courses through the peripheral parieto-occipital visual pathways before joining up with vestibular and other body senses to control posture and orientation in earth-fixed/gravitational space. Numerous studies involving peripersonal and extrapersonal neglect have shown that peripersonal space is located dorsally in the parietal lobe whereas extrapersonal space is housed ventrally in the temporal lobe.\n\nWhile personal space describes the immediate space surrounding a person, territory refers to the area which a person may \"lay claim to\" and defend against others. There are four forms of human territory in proxemic theory. They are:\nThese different levels of territory, in addition to factors involving personal space, suggest ways for us to communicate and produce expectations of appropriate behavior.\n\nIn addition to spatial territories, the interpersonal territories between conversants can be determined by \"socio-petal socio-fugal axis\", or the \"angle formed by the axis of the conversants' shoulders\". Hall has also studied combinations of postures between dyads (two people) including lying prone, sitting, or standing.\n\nPersonal space is highly variable, due to cultural differences and personal preferences. On average, preferences vary significantly between countries. A 2017 study found that personal space preferences with respect to strangers ranged between more than 120 cm in Romania, Hungary and Saudi Arabia, and less than 90 cm in Argentina, Peru, Ukraine and Bulgaria.\n\nThe cultural practices of the United States show considerable similarities to those in northern and central European regions, such as Germany, Scandinavia, and the United Kingdom. Greeting rituals tend to be the same in Europe and in the United States, consisting of minimal body contact—often confined to a simple handshake. The main cultural difference in proxemics is that residents of the United States like to keep more open space between themselves and their conversation partners (roughly compared to in Europe). European cultural history has seen a change in personal space since Roman times, along with the boundaries of public and private space. This topic has been explored in \"A History of Private Life\" (2001), under the general editorship of Philippe Ariès and Georges Duby. On the other hand, those living in densely populated places likely have lower expectations of personal space. Residents of India or Japan tend to have a smaller personal space than those in the Mongolian steppe, both in regard to home and individual spaces. Different expectations of personal space can lead to difficulties in intercultural communication.\n\nHall notes that different culture types maintain different standards of personal space. Realizing and recognizing these cultural differences improves cross-cultural understanding, and helps eliminate discomfort people may feel if the interpersonal distance is too large (\"stand-offish\") or too small (intrusive).\n\nPeople make exceptions to and modify their space requirements. A number of relationships may allow for personal space to be modified, including familial ties, romantic partners, friendships and close acquaintances, where there is a greater degree of trust and personal knowledge. Personal space is affected by a person's position in society, with more affluent individuals expecting a larger personal space. Personal space also varies by gender and age. Males typically use more personal space than females, and personal space has a positive relation to age (people use more as they get older). Most people have a fully developed (adult) sense of personal space by age twelve.\n\nUnder circumstances where normal space requirements cannot be met, such as in public transit or elevators, personal space requirements are modified accordingly. According to the psychologist Robert Sommer, one method of dealing with violated personal space is dehumanization. He argues that on the subway, crowded people often imagine those intruding on their personal space as inanimate. Behavior is another method: a person attempting to talk to someone can often cause situations where one person steps forward to enter what they perceive as a conversational distance, and the person they are talking to can step back to restore their personal space.\n\nImplementing appropriate proxemic cues has been shown to improve success in monitored behavioral situations like psychotherapy by increasing patient trust for the therapist (see active listening). Instructional situations have likewise seen increased success in student performance by lessening the actual or perceived distance between the student and the educator (perceived distance is manipulated in the case of instructional videoconferencing, using technological tricks such as angling the frame and adjusting the zoom). Studies have shown that proxemic behavior is also affected when dealing with stigmatized minorities within a population. For example, those who do not have experience dealing with disabled persons tend to create more distance during encounters because they are uncomfortable. Others may judge that the disabled person needs to have an increase of touch, volume, or proximity.\n\nThe theory of proxemics is often considered in relation to the impact of technology on human relationships. While physical proximity cannot be achieved when people are connected virtually, perceived proximity can be attempted, and several studies have shown that it is a crucial indicator in the effectiveness of virtual communication technologies. These studies suggest that various individual and situational factors influence how close we feel to another person, regardless of distance. The mere-exposure effect originally referred to the tendency of a person to positively favor those who they have been physically exposed to most often. However, recent research has extended this effect to virtual communication. This work suggests that the more someone communicates virtually with another person, the more he is able to envision that person's appearance and workspace, therefore fostering a sense of personal connection. Increased communication has also been seen to foster common ground, or the feeling of identification with another, which leads to positive attributions about that person. Some studies emphasize the importance of shared physical territory in achieving common ground, while others find that common ground can be achieved virtually, by communicating often.\n\nMuch research in the fields of communication, psychology, and sociology, especially under the category of organizational behavior, has shown that physical proximity enhances peoples' ability to work together. Face-to-face interaction is often used as a tool to maintain the culture, authority, and norms of an organization or workplace. An extensive body of research has been written about how proximity is affected by the use of new communication technologies. The importance of physical proximity in co-workers is often emphasized.\n\nPart of Facebook's earning comes from on-site advertising. During these years, Facebook has offered companies the ability to post and present content in a timeline format on their free brand or business page. By doing so, companies can deliver a more comprehensive promotional message and increase audience engagement. If a user \"likes\" a brand page, corporate content posted on the brand page will appear in the user's news feed. Many users felt angry about the overly implanted ads that showed up in their Facebook timeline.\n\nUsers that consider Facebook advertising \"annoying\" and \"intrusive\" may do so because companies are invading their social domain (territory) with targeted, paid-for, corporate communications. Those that \"hate\" receiving targeted messages on their social media profiles could be experiencing frustration. It is likely that these users are devoting effort to the creation and maintenance of boundaries around their social role, only to have advertisers break through these boundaries with promotional content.\n\nProxemics is an essential component of cinematic mise-en-scène, the placement of characters, props and scenery within a frame, creating visual weight and movement. There are two aspects to the consideration of proxemics in this context, the first being character proxemics, which addresses such questions as: How much space is there between the characters? What is suggested by characters who are close to (or, conversely, far away from) each other? Do distances change as the film progresses? and, Do distances depend on the film's other content? The other consideration is camera proxemics, which answers the single question: How far away is the camera from the characters/action? Analysis of camera proxemics typically relates Hall's system of proxemic patterns to the camera angle used to create a specific shot, with the long shot or extreme long shot becoming the \"public proxemic\", a full shot (sometimes called a figure shot, complete view, or medium long shot) becoming the \"social proxemic\", the medium shot becoming the \"personal proxemic\", and the close up or extreme close up becoming the \"intimate proxemic\".\n\nFilm analyst Louis Giannetti has maintained that, in general, the greater the distance between the camera and the subject (in other words, the public proxemic), the more emotionally neutral the audience remains, whereas the closer the camera is to a character, the greater the audience's emotional attachment to that character. Or, as actor/director Charlie Chaplin put it: \"Life is a tragedy when seen in close-up, but a comedy in long shot.\"\n\nCyberbullying is a communication phenomenon in which a bully utilizes electronic media in order to harass peers. Adolescents favor texting or computer-mediated communication as an alternative to the more directly combative face-to-face interactions because it takes advantage of evading imposed social norms such as \"school rules\", which are likely to be especially repressive of aggression involving females. Online bullying has a lot in common with bullying in school: Both behaviors include harassment, humiliation, teasing and aggression. Cyberbullying presents unique challenges in the sense that the perpetrator can attempt to be anonymous, and attacks can happen at any time of day or night.\n\nThe main factor that encourages cyber bullying is the fact that a cyber bully can hide behind the shield of online anonymity. In other words, social media magnifies the face-to-face social space into a virtual space where a cyber bully can say anything about the victims without the pressure of facing them.\n\nBailenson, Blascovich, Beall, and Loomis conducted an experiment in 2001, testing Argyle and Dean's (1965) equilibrium theory's speculation of an inverse relationship between mutual gaze, a nonverbal cue signaling intimacy, and interpersonal distance. Participants were immersed in a 3D virtual room in which a virtual human representation (that is, an embodied agent) stood. The focus of this study is on the \"subtle nonverbal exchanges\" that occur between a person and an embodied agent. Participants in the study clearly did not treat the agent as a mere animation. On the contrary, the results suggest that, in virtual environments, people were influenced by the 3D model and respected personal space of the humanoid representation. The result of the experiment also indicated that women are more affected by the gaze behaviors of the agent and adjust their personal space more accordingly than do men. However, men do subjectively assign gaze behavior to the agent, and their proxemic behavior reflects this perception. Furthermore, both men and women demonstrate less variance in their \"proxemic behavior\" when the agent displays mutual gaze behavior than when the agent does not.\n\nOther researchers have established that proxemics can be a valuable tool for measuring the behavioral realism of an agent or an avatar. People tend to perceive nonverbal gestures on an implicit level, and degree of personal space appears to be an accurate way to measure people's perception of \"social presence\" and realism in virtual environments. Nick Yee in his PhD thesis at Stanford discovered that real world proxemic distances also were applied in the virtual world of Second Life. Other studies demonstrate that implicit behavioral measures such as body posture can be a reliable measure of the user's sense of presence in virtual environments. Similarly, personal space may be a more reliable measure of social presence than a typical ratings survey in immersive virtual environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "30249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249", "title": "Regress argument", "text": "Regress argument\n\nThe regress argument (also known as the diallelus (Latin) or diallelon, from Greek \"di allelon\" \"through or by means of one another\") is a problem in epistemology and, in general, a problem in any situation where a statement has to be justified. \n\nAccording to this argument, any proposition requires a justification. However, any justification itself requires support. This means that any proposition whatsoever can be endlessly (infinitely) questioned.\n\nThe argument is usually attributed to Sextus Empiricus, and has been restated by Agrippa as part of what has become known as \"Agrippa's trilemma\". The argument can be seen as a response to the suggestion in Plato's \"Theaetetus\" that knowledge is justified true belief.\n\nAssuming that knowledge is justified true belief, then:\n\nThroughout philosophic history many responses to this problem have been generated. Here, however, we present the major counter-arguments: some statements do not need justification, the chain of reasoning loops back on itself, the sequence never finishes, belief cannot be justified as beyond doubt.\n\nPerhaps the chain begins with a belief that is justified, but which is not justified by another belief. Such beliefs are called basic beliefs. In this solution, which is called foundationalism, all beliefs are justified by basic beliefs. Foundationalism seeks to escape the regress argument by claiming that there are some beliefs for which it is improper to ask for a justification. (See also \"a priori\".) This would be a claim that some things (basic beliefs) are true in and of themselves.\n\nFoundationalism is the belief that a chain of justification begins with a belief that is justified, but which is not justified by another belief. Thus, a belief is justified if and only if:\n\nFoundationalism can be compared to a building. Ordinary individual beliefs occupy the upper stories of the building; basic, or foundational beliefs are down in the basement, in the foundation of the building, holding everything else up. In a similar way, individual beliefs, say about economics or ethics, rest on more basic beliefs, say about the nature of human beings; and those rest on still more basic beliefs, say about the mind; and in the end the entire system rests on a set of basic beliefs which are not justified by other beliefs.\n\nAlternatively, the chain of reasoning may loop around on itself, forming a circle. In this case, the justification of any statement is used, perhaps after a long chain of reasoning, in justifying itself, and the argument is circular. This is a version of coherentism.\n\nCoherentism is the belief that an idea is justified if and only if it is part of a coherent system of mutually supporting beliefs (i.e., beliefs that support each other). In effect Coherentism denies that justification can only take the form of a chain. Coherentism replaces the chain with a holistic web.\n\nThe most common objection to naïve Coherentism is that it relies on the idea that circular justification is acceptable. In this view, P ultimately supports P, begging the question. Coherentists reply that it is not just P that is supporting P, but P along with the totality of the other statements in the whole system of belief.\n\nCoherentism accepts any belief that is part of a coherent system of beliefs. In contrast, P can cohere with P and P without P, P or P being true. Instead, Coherentists might say that it is very unlikely that the whole system would be both untrue and consistent, and that if some part of the system was untrue, it would almost certainly be inconsistent with some other part of the system.\n\nA third objection is that some beliefs arise from experience and not from other beliefs. An example is that one is looking into a room which is totally dark. The lights turn on momentarily and one sees a white canopy bed in the room. The belief that there is a white canopy bed in this room is based entirely on experience and not on any other belief. Of course other possibilities exist, such as that the white canopy bed is entirely an illusion or that one is hallucinating, but the belief remains well-justified. Coherentists might respond that the belief which supports the belief that there is a white canopy bed in this room is that one saw the bed, however briefly. This appears to be an immediate qualifier which does not depend on other beliefs, and thus seems to prove that Coherentism is not true because beliefs can be justified by concepts other than beliefs. But others have argued that the experience of seeing the bed is indeed dependent on other beliefs, about what a bed, a canopy and so on, actually look like.\n\nAnother objection is that the rule demanding \"coherence\" in a system of ideas seems to be an unjustified belief.\n\nInfinitism argues that the chain can go on forever. Critics argue that this means there is never adequate justification for any statement in the chain.\n\nSkeptics reject the three above responses and argue that beliefs cannot be justified as beyond doubt. Note that many skeptics do not deny that things may appear in a certain way. However, such sense impressions cannot, in the skeptical view, be used to find beliefs that cannot be doubted. Also, skeptics do not deny that, for example, many laws of nature give the appearance of working or that doing certain things give the appearance of producing pleasure/pain or even that reason and logic seem to be useful tools. Skepticism is in this view valuable since it encourages continued investigation.\n\nThe method of common sense espoused by such philosophers as Thomas Reid and G. E. Moore points out that whenever we investigate anything at all, whenever we start thinking about some subject, we have to make assumptions. When one tries to support one's assumptions with reasons, one must make yet more assumptions. Since it is inevitable that we will make some assumptions, why not assume those things that are most obvious: the matters of common sense that no one ever seriously doubts.\n\n\"Common sense\" here does not mean old adages like \"Chicken soup is good for colds\" but statements about the background in which our experiences occur. Examples would be \"Human beings typically have two eyes, two ears, two hands, two feet\", or \"The world has a ground and a sky\" or \"Plants and animals come in a wide variety of sizes and colors\" or \"I am conscious and alive right now\". These are all the absolutely most obvious sorts of claims that one could possibly make; and, said Reid and Moore, these are the claims that make up \"common sense\".\n\nThis view can be seen as either a version of foundationalism, with common sense statements taking the role of basic statements, or as a version of Coherentism. In this case, commonsense statements are statements that are so crucial to keeping the account coherent that they are all but impossible to deny.\n\nIf the method of common sense is correct, then philosophers may take the principles of common sense for granted. They do not need criteria in order to judge whether a proposition is true or not. They can also take some justifications for granted, according to common sense. They can get around Sextus' problem of the criterion because there is no infinite regress or circle of reasoning, because the principles of common sense ground the entire chain of reasoning.\n\nAnother escape from the diallelus is critical philosophy, which denies that beliefs should ever be \"justified\" at all. Rather, the job of philosophers is to subject all beliefs (including beliefs about truth criteria) to \"criticism\", attempting to discredit them rather than justifying them. Then, these philosophers say, it is rational to act on those beliefs that have best withstood criticism, whether or not they meet any specific criterion of truth. Karl Popper expanded on this idea to include a \"quantitative\" measurement he called verisimilitude, or truth-likeness. He showed that even if one could never justify a particular claim, one \"can\" compare the verisimilitude of two competing claims by criticism to judge which is superior to the other.\n\nThe pragmatist philosopher William James suggests that, ultimately, everyone settles at some level of explanation based on one's personal preferences that fit the particular individual's psychological needs. People select whatever level of explanation fits their needs, and things other than logic and reason determine those needs. In \"The Sentiment of Rationality\", James compares the philosopher, who insists on a high degree of justification, and the boor, who accepts or rejects ideals without much thought:\n\n"}
{"id": "8950815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950815", "title": "Remo Bodei", "text": "Remo Bodei\n\nRemo Bodei (born in Cagliari, 3 August 1938) is an Italian philosopher. He is Professor of the history of philosophy at the UCLA University, Los Angeles California, and also teaches at the University of Pisa and Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa.\n\nHis initial interests were in classical German philosophy, and the Weimar Classicism period (1770–1830). He has subsequently written over 200 papers on utopian thinkers of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and contemporary political thought.\n\nHis books include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639129", "title": "Roy Bhaskar", "text": "Roy Bhaskar\n\nRam Roy Bhaskar (; 15 May 1944 – 19 November 2014) was a British philosopher best known as the initiator of the philosophical movement of critical realism (CR). He was a World Scholar at the Institute of Education, University College London.\n\nBhaskar was born in Teddington, London, the first of two sons. His Indian father and English mother were Theosophists. Bhaskar said his childhood was unhappy, his father having high expectations of him.\n\nIn 1963 Bhaskar attended Balliol College, Oxford on a scholarship to read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. The scholarship freed him from his father's influence over his chosen academic path. Having graduated with first class honours in 1966, he began work on a PhD thesis about the relevance of economic theory for under-developed countries. His PhD changed course and was completed at Nuffield College, Oxford on the philosophy of social science and then the philosophy of science. Rom Harré became his supervisor, and his thesis became the basis of the classic text, \"A Realist Theory of Science\" in 1975.\n\nBhaskar lectured at the University of Edinburgh from 1975, later moving to the University of Sussex. He held visiting positions in several Scandinavian universities-adjunct professor in philosophy at the Centre for Peace Studies at the University of Tromsö, Norway, and guest professor in philosophy and social science, Department of Caring Sciences, Örebro University, Sweden. From 2007 Bhaskar was employed at the Institute of Education in London where he was working on the application of CR to Peace Studies. He was a founding member of the Centre for Critical Realism, International Association for Critical Realism and the International Centre for Critical Realism (2011), the latter at the Institute of Education.\n\nBhaskar married Hilary Wainwright in 1971. He died in Leeds with his partner Rebecca Long by his side in 2014.\n\nBhaskar's consideration of the philosophies of science and social science resulted in the development of critical realism, a philosophical approach that defends the critical and emancipatory potential of rational (scientific and philosophical) enquiry against both positivist, broadly defined, and 'postmodern' challenges. Its approach emphasises the importance of distinguishing between epistemological and ontological questions and the significance of objectivity properly understood for a critical project. Its conception of philosophy and social science is a socially situated, but not socially determined one, which maintains the possibility for objective critique to motivate social change, with the ultimate end being a promotion of human freedom.\n\nThe term \"critical realism\" was not initially used by Bhaskar. The philosophy began life as what Bhaskar called \"transcendental realism\" in \"A Realist Theory of Science\" (1975), which he extended into the social sciences as critical naturalism in \"The Possibility of Naturalism\" (1978). The term \"critical realism\" is an elision of transcendental realism and critical naturalism, that has been subsequently accepted by Bhaskar after being proposed by others, partly because of its appropriate connotations; Critical Realism shares certain dimensions with Frankfurt School Critical Theory.\n\nCritical Realism should not be confused with various other critical realisms, including Georg Lukács' aesthetics, and Alister McGrath's, Scientific Theology (or Theological Critical Realism), although they share common goals. In contemporary critical realist texts \"critical realism\" is often abbreviated to CR. A later dialectical development of Critical Realism in Bhaskar's work in \"Dialectic: The Pulse of Freedom\" (1993) and \"Plato, etc\" (1994) led to a separate branch or second phase of CR known as \"dialectical critical realism\" (DCR).\n\nThe first 'phase' of Critical Realism accrued a large number of adherents and proponents in Britain, many of whom were involved with the \"Radical Philosophy\" Group and related movements, and it was in the Radical Philosophy Journal that much of the early CR scholarship first appeared. It argued for an objectivist, realist approach to science based on a Kant-style transcendental analysis of scientific experimental activity. Stressing the need to retain \"both\" the subjective, epistemological or 'transitive' side of knowledge \"and\" the objective, ontological or 'intransitive' side, Bhaskar developed a theory of science and social science which he thought would sustain the reality of the objects of science, and their knowability, but would also incorporate the insights of the 'sociology of knowledge' movement, which emphasised the theory-laden, historically contingent and socially situated nature of knowledge. What emerged was a marriage of ontological realism with epistemological relativism, forming an objectivist, yet fallibilist, theory of knowledge. Bhaskar's main strategy was to argue that reality has \"depth\", and that knowledge can penetrate more or less deeply into reality, without ever reaching the 'bottom'. Bhaskar has said that he reintroduced 'ontology' into the philosophy of science at a time when this was almost heresy, arguing for an ontology of stratified emergence and differentiated structure, which supported the ontological reality of causal powers independent of their empirical effects; such a move opened up the possibility for a non-reductivist and non-positivistic account of causal explanation in the human and social domain.\n\nThis explanatory project was linked with a critical project the main idea of which is the doctrine of 'Explanatory Critique' which Bhaskar developed fully in \"Scientific Realism and Human Emancipation\" (1987). This developed the critical tradition of 'ideology critique' within a CR framework, arguing that certain kinds of explanatory accounts could lead directly to evaluations, and thus that science could function normatively, not just descriptively, as positivism has, since Hume's law, assumed. Such a move, it was hoped, would provide the Holy Grail of critical theory, an objective normative foundation.\n\nThe 'second phase' of Critical Realism, the dialectic turn initiated in \"Dialectic: the Pulse of Freedom\" (1993) won some new adherents but drew criticism from some Critical Realists. It argued for the 'dialecticising' of CR, through an elaborate reading of Hegel and Marx. Arguing against Hegel and with Marx that dialectical connections, relations and contradictions are themselves ontological – objectively real – Bhaskar developed a concept of real absence which it was claimed could provide a more robust foundation for the reality and objectivity of values and criticism. He attempted to incorporate critical, rational human agency into the dialectic figure with his 'Fourth Dimension' of dialectic, thereby grounding a systematic model for rational emancipatory transformative practice.\n\nIn 2000, Bhaskar published \"From East to West: The Odyssey of a Soul\", in which he first expressed ideas related to spiritual values that came to be seen as the beginning of his so-called 'spiritual' turn, which led to the final phase of CR dubbed 'Transcendental Dialectical Critical Realism'. \nThis publication and the ones that followed it were highly controversial and led to something of a split among Bhaskar's proponents. Whilst some respected Critical Realists cautiously supported Bhaskar's 'spiritual turn', others took the view that the development had compromised the status of CR as a serious philosophical movement.\n\nIn his \"Reflections on Meta-Reality\", he states:\n\nThis book articulates the difference between critical realism in its development and a new philosophical standpoint which I am in the process of developing, which I have called the philosophy of Meta-Reality.\n\nThe main departure, it seems, is an emphasis on the shift away from Western dualism to a non-dual model in which emancipation entails \"a breakdown, an overcoming, of the duality and separateness between things.\" However, this move was seen by some to undermine some of early Critical Realisms strongest aspects.\n\nWhilst his early books were considered \"models of clarity and rigour\", Bhaskar has been criticised for the \"truly appalling style\" (Alex Callinicos, 1994) in which his \"dialectical\" works are written. He won the Bad Writing Contest in 1996, for a passage taken from \"Plato etc.\" (1994). His style may be the result of fast writing initially using a voice recorder.\n\nOther criticisms have been levelled at the substance of Bhaskar's arguments at various points. One objection to Bhaskar's early Critical Realism is that it begs the question, assuming, rather than proving, the existence of the intransitive domain. Another objection, raised by Callinicos and others, is that Bhaskar's so-called \"transcendental arguments\" are not really that. They are certainly not typical transcendental arguments as philosophers such as Charles Taylor have defined them, the distinguishing feature of which is the identification of some putative condition on the possibility of experience. (However, his arguments function in an analogous way since they try to argue that scientific practice would be unintelligible and/or inexplicable in the absence of the ontological features he identifies.)\n\nIt has been alleged that the dialectical phase of his philosophy proves too much, since Critical Realism was already dialectical.\n\nBhaskar's concept of real absence has been questioned by, among others, Andrew Collier, who points out that it in fact fails to distinguish properly between real and nominal absences (in \"On Real and Nominal Absences\", in \"After Postmodernism\", 2001).\n\nBhaskar's most recent 'spiritual' phase has been criticised by many adherents of early Critical Realism for departing from the fundamental positions which made it important and interesting, without providing philosophical support for his new ideas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "592324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592324", "title": "Semantic discord", "text": "Semantic discord\n\nSemantic discord is the situation where two parties disagree on the definition of a word or several words essential to communicating or formulating any concept at issue. The two parties basically understand two different meanings for the word, or they associate the word with different concepts. Consequently, their disagreeing on these definitions explains why there is a dispute at all. Semantic discord most often arises due to differences in the cultural backgrounds or professional fields of the communicators. Any word or instance of communication that has its effectiveness reduced due to semantic discord is said to be \"semantically loaded\". Semantic disputes are arguments that arise over terms due to semantic discord.\n\nAn airplane crashes on a tropical island inhabited by primitives who believe that fire makes everything better. The plane can be repaired if a new propeller could be carved out of local wood. The pilot then attempts to enlist the help of the natives. But as soon as they discover the pilot is attempting to improve the status of the airplane, they set torches to it—because \"repair,\" \"improve,\" \"fix\" and other such words in this case have different meanings to each of the parties involved. They are semantically loaded terms.\n\nAnother example of semantic discord can be found in N-rays under pathological science.\n\nAvoiding semantic discord is a particular difficulty for language translators.\n\n"}
{"id": "54617127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54617127", "title": "Summa Theologica (Eiximenis)", "text": "Summa Theologica (Eiximenis)\n\nThe Summa Theologica is a literary work written by Francesc Eiximenis in Latin possibly at the beginning of the 15th century. It belongs to the genre of the summae, that represented the highest point of the medieval theological thought.\n\nOnly some parts have been preserved. They were found in the archive of the cathedral of Valencia by the Valencian Franciscan León Amorós. He also transcribed them and published them in the review \"Archivum Franciscanum Historicum\" in 1959.\n\nThe most important part deals with predestination. Eiximenis' aim was to write about it in the \"Fourth Book of the Christian\" (this book was projected but not written). The other matters of the preserved parts are the following:\n\n\nLeón Amorós arrives to the conclusion that this \"Summa\" was written at the same time as the Vida de Jesucrist (Jesuchrist's life), owing to the constant references that in this work are made to the \"Summa\", and owing to the fact that the references to the \"Summa\" only appear in the \"Vida de Jesucrist\", and not in any other Eiximenis' work. And the Vida de Jesucrist was concluded by Eiximenis at the beginning of the 15th century.\n\nConsidering the references that are made in the Vida de Jesucrist, L. Amorós deduces this hypothetical content and structure:\n\n\nThere is another reference, but without specifying the book, to the sacrament of baptism. And finally chapter 53 of the 7th treatise of the Vida de Jesucrist refers to the \"Summa Theologica\", but without specifying a concrete book regarding the matter of usury (Valencia. BUV. Ms. 209, f. 200r).\n\nAccording to these data L. Amorós deduces that this summa would consist in seven books.\n\n"}
{"id": "36177809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36177809", "title": "Susan Finsen", "text": "Susan Finsen\n\nSusan Finsen is an American philosopher, currently professor emeritus of philosophy and former chair of the department at California State University, San Bernardino. She specializes in moral philosophy, with a particular interest in animal rights, as well as philosophy of science and philosophy of biology. She is the co-author, with her husband Lawrence Finsen, of \"The Animal Rights Movement in America: From Compassion to Respect\" (1994), and is the director of Californians for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.\n\nFinsen received her PhD in philosophy from Indiana University in 1982. Susan Finsen was formerly known as Susan K. Mills.\n"}
{"id": "46784713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46784713", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 217", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 217\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly Resolution 217A was adopted on December 10, 1948, to ratify the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe resolution was adopted by a majority of 48 countries from among the 58 members of the United Nations at that time; however 8 abstained and the Republic of Honduras and the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen did not vote.\n\nThe result of the voting was the following: \n"}
{"id": "40492671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40492671", "title": "Valeria Lukyanova", "text": "Valeria Lukyanova\n\nValeria Valeryevna Lukyanova (; ; born on August 23, 1985) is a Russian model and entertainer, famous for her resemblance to a Barbie doll. To enhance the Barbie effect Lukyanova uses makeup and contact lenses over her naturally green/gray/blue eyes. She has stated that she has had breast implants, but that the rest of her body is natural and slender due to daily gym workouts and a particular diet.\n\nIn 2007, Lukyanova won the world wide beauty contest \"Miss Diamond Crown of the World\". The beauty pageant was open to any women, had about 300 contestants, and had no rule forbidding plastic surgery or body modification. She subsequently had multiple photo sessions and interviews published in Russian media, including erotic photos. Lukyanova developed a worldwide following for her Barbie doll-like appearance after she posted photos and videos of herself on the web. She gained notoriety after reports of her \"almost inhuman beauty\" surfaced online. The first notable coverage of her from outside Russia was on the \"Jezebel\" blog, followed by a photo session in \"V\" by Sebastian Faena. The media described her as being like a living Barbie doll.\n\nThere has been scepticism of Lukyanova. \"ABC News\" suggested that Lukyanova was a hoax aided by image editing software. Diane Levin regarded Lukyanova as an example of the negative effects of media objectification. To counter the image editing accusations, Lukyanova posted videos on YouTube and appeared on Russia-1 and Channel One Russia TV channels. Lukyanova admitted to having breast augmentation but no other plastic surgery, and denies that she had ribs removed to make her waist smaller. Lukyanova blamed people unconnected to her for altering photos of her younger self in a malicious attempt to imply she had received body modifications.\n\nLukyanova is an \"instructor\" at the School of Out-of-Body Travel, described as \"an international school in which our instructors show students how to leave their physical body and travel in their spiritual body.\" Her \"spiritual name\" is Amatue.\n\nShe is a composer, an opera singer, and has recorded two albums of new-age music, \"Sun in the Eyes\" and \"2013\" using the name Amatue. she wrote a book, \"Astral Travel Amatue,\" about her astral trips which she made available in 2012 as an RTF file to download for free from her website.\n\nIn 2013 Lukyanova was the subject of an episode of \"Vice\"'s My Life Online documentary series entitled \"Space Barbie.\" In 2013 she participated in the documentary movie \"The Phase\", which was released on YouTube in 7 languages. She had her debut starring role in a feature film in \"The Doll\" (2017), a horror movie directed and written by Susannah O’Brien. The film, which also includes Mindy Robinson and Ron Jeremy, revolves around Lukyanova's character, an escort made from doll parts created by a doctor to recruit others to kill, and the two men who requested her. The movie presented at the Cannes Film Festival in 2017.\n\nAs of March 2014, Lukyanova had 997,812 Facebook fans, 10,030 Twitter followers, over 30 million views on YouTube, and also, as of August 2013, there are 336,565 followers in the Russian social network VK.\n\nLukyanova was born on 23 August 1985 in Tiraspol, in what was then part of Moldavian SSR in the Soviet Union. She claims to be of \"Eastern Baltic, but closer to Nordic\" origin. Her mother, Irina, worked for the military sector and her father was a builder who also worked part-time as a disc jockey. Lukyanova lived in Odessa, Ukraine from age 16 until 2014. She has a bachelor's degree in architecture from Odessa State Academy of Constructions and Architecture.\n\nShe is married to Ukrainian businessman Dmitry Shkrabov, her childhood friend. However, Lukyanova said that she does not want to have children or a \"family lifestyle.\"\n\nLukyanova is a strict raw vegetarian, living on a liquid diet. She said that her weight was 45 kg (100 lb) in 2012. In 2014 she stated she was training herself to live off only light and air, and converting to Breatharianism which is described as a cult, that believes food and possibly water is not necessary for survival. However, later she stopped this experiment, stating: \"I still would like to do Breatharianism someday. But right now I am far from it, and I do not know when I will do it\". \n\nIn a 2014 \"GQ\" interview, she expressed her views on race-mixing, describing it as a problem, stating, \"Ethnicities are mixing now, so there's degeneration\". \n\nIn 2014 Lukyanova reported to police that she was punched and strangled by two men outside her home, after receiving anonymous threats for over the past two years. She was hospitalized and released a week later.\n\nIn 2014, because of the War in Donbass, Ukraine, Lukyanova moved from Odessa to Moscow.\n\nIn 2015, Lukyanova participated in Dosso Dossi's fashion show as a model. Lukyanova, has expressed anger at the nickname of \"Human Barbie\", as she feels that its \"a little degrading and insulting\" but that shes used to it now as its the image her fans \"requested\" so she has to \"comply with it because it's become part of my aesthetic image, but I don't like it\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "660978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660978", "title": "Vintilă Horia", "text": "Vintilă Horia\n\nVintilă Horia (; December 18, 1915 – April 4, 1992) was a Romanian writer, winner of the Goncourt Prize, and convicted war criminal.\n\nBorn in Segarcea, he graduated from the Saint Sava National College, then studied Law, and then Letters, including terms at universities in Italy and Austria. An associate of the far right thinker Nichifor Crainic, Horia sat on the editorial board of his \"Sfarmă Piatră\" journal. He contributed to \"Gândirea\" and \"Porunca Vremii\" articles praising the Italian fascism of Benito Mussolini (\"Miracolul fascist\" — \"The Fascist Miracle\"), as well as pieces attacking authors whom the traditionalist group viewed as decadent (notably, Tudor Arghezi and Eugen Lovinescu).\n\nAfter Crainic took over as Minister of Propaganda in King Carol II's authoritarian government, he appointed Horia as member of the diplomatic mission to Rome. According to his own account, Horia shared Crainic's rejection of the Iron Guard, and, after Carol was ousted by the latter's National Legionary State government, he was recalled from office. He later left for Vienna.\n\nWith Romania's siding with the Allies in 1944 (\"see Romania during World War II\"), Horia was taken prisoner by the Nazi authorities, and interned in the concentration camps at Karpacz and Maria Pfarr (he was to be liberated a year later by the British Army).\n\nDeciding not to return to an increasingly Soviet Union-dominated Romania, Vintilă Horia lived in Italy (where he became good friends with Giovanni Papini).\n\nIn 1946, following a trial \"in absentia\" by the Romanian People's Tribunals, Horia was sentenced to life in prison for facilitating the penetration of fascist ideas in Romania, and for making the case for those ideas to be implemented under the leadership of the German embassy in Bucharest. The sentence against him has never been rescinded. In 1948, Horia moved to Argentina, where he taught at the Universidad de Buenos Aires; after March 1953, he lived in Spain, employed as a researcher in the Italic Studies field.\n\nHe won the Prix Goncourt for his novel \"Dieu est né en exil\" (\"God was born in exile\") in 1960; however, following the allegations that he had been a member of the Iron Guard, Vintila Horia refused to receive the Prize, but the Goncourt remains attributed to him. According to some, the allegations constituted slander aimed at Horia by the communist regime, with the purpose of blackmailing him into issuing positive remarks about the regime. His book notably attracted Jean-Paul Sartre's criticism.\n\nOther prizes received by Vintila Horia: Medalla de Oro de „Il Conciliatore”, Milano (1961); “Bravo para loshombres que unem en la verdad”, Madrid (1972); “Dante Aligheri\" Prize, Firenze (1981).\n\nHe died in Collado Villalba, a municipality of Madrid.\n\nThe centenary of Vintila Horia was celebrated at the University Alcala de Henares and in several towns in Romania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32516", "title": "Vladimir Vernadsky", "text": "Vladimir Vernadsky\n\nVladimir Ivanovich Vernadsky (; ;  – 6 January 1945) was a Russian, Ukrainian, and Soviet mineralogist and geochemist who is considered one of the founders of geochemistry, biogeochemistry, and radiogeology, and was a founder of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (now National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine). He is most noted for his 1926 book \"The Biosphere\" in which he inadvertently worked to popularize Eduard Suess’ 1885 term biosphere, by hypothesizing that life is the geological force that shapes the earth. In 1943 he was awarded the Stalin Prize.\n\nVernadsky was born in Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire, on in family of the native Kiev residents Russian-Ukrainian economist Ivan Vernadsky and music instructor Hanna Konstantynovych. According to family legend, his father was a descendent of Zaporozhian Cossacks. He had been a professor of political economy in Kiev before moving to Saint Petersburg. His mother was a Russian noblewoman of Ukrainian Cossack descent.\nVernadsky graduated from Saint Petersburg State University in 1885. As the position of mineralogist in Saint Petersburg State University was vacant, and Vasily Dokuchaev, a soil scientist, and Alexey Pavlov, a geologist, had been teaching Mineralogy for a while, Vernadsky chose to enter Mineralogy. He wrote to his wife Natasha on 20 June 1888 from Switzerland:\nWhile trying to find a topic for his doctorate, he first went to Naples to study under crystallographer Arcangelo Scacchi, who was senile by that time. Scacchi's condition led Vernadsky to go to Germany to study under Paul Groth. Vernadsky learned to use Groth's modern equipment, who had developed a machine to study the optical, thermal, elastic, magnetic and electrical properties of crystals. He also gained access to the physics lab of Leonhard Sohncke (Direktor, Physikalisches Institut der Universität Jena, 1883–1886; Professor der Physik an der Technischen Hochschule München 1886 -1897), who was studying crystallisation during that period.\n\nVernadsky participated in the First General Congress of the zemstvos, held in Petersburg on the eve of the 1905 revolution to discuss how best to pressure the government to the needs of the Russian society; became a member of the liberal Constitutional Democratic Party (KD); and served in parliament, resigning to protest the Tsar's proroguing of the Duma. He served as professor and later as vice rector of Moscow University, from which he also resigned in 1911 in protest over the government's reactionary policies. After the February revolution of 1917, he served on several commissions of agriculture and education of the provisional government, including as assistant minister of education.\n\nVernadsky first popularized the concept of the noosphere and deepened the idea of the biosphere to the meaning largely recognized by today's scientific community. The word 'biosphere' was invented by Austrian geologist Eduard Suess, whom Vernadsky met in 1911.\n\nIn Vernadsky's theory of the Earth's development, the noosphere is the third stage in the earth's development, after the geosphere (inanimate matter) and the biosphere (biological life). Just as the emergence of life fundamentally transformed the geosphere, the emergence of human cognition will fundamentally transform the biosphere. In this theory, the principles of both life and cognition are essential features of the Earth's evolution, and must have been implicit in the earth all along. This systemic and geological analysis of living systems complements Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection, which looks at each individual species, rather than at its relationship to a subsuming principle.\n\nVernadsky's visionary pronouncements were not widely accepted in the West. However, he was one of the first scientists to recognize that the oxygen, nitrogen and carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere result from biological processes. During the 1920s he published works arguing that living organisms could reshape the planets as surely as any physical force. Vernadsky was an important pioneer of the scientific bases for the environmental sciences.\n\nVernadsky was a member of the Russian and Soviet Academies of Sciences since 1912 and was a founder and first president of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences in Kiev, Ukraine (1918). He was a founder of the National Library of Ukrainian State and worked closely with the Tavrida University in Crimea. During the Russian Civil War, he hosted gatherings of the young intellectuals who later founded the émigré Eurasianism movement.\n\nIn the late 1930s and early 1940s Vernadsky played an early advisory role in the Soviet atomic bomb project, as one of the most forceful voices arguing for the exploitation of nuclear power, the surveying of Soviet uranium sources, and having nuclear fission research conducted at his Radium Institute. He died, however, before a full project was pursued.\n\nOn religious views, Vernadsky was an atheist. He was interested in Hinduism and Rig Veda\n\nVernadsky's son George Vernadsky (1887–1973) emigrated to the United States where he published numerous books on medieval and modern Russian history.\n\nThe National Library of Ukraine, the Tavrida National University in Crimea and many streets and avenues in Ukraine and Russia are named in honor of Vladimir Vernadsky.\n\nUNESCO sponsored an international scientific conference, \"Globalistics-2013\", at Moscow State University on October 23–25, 2013, in honor of Vernadsky's 150th birthday.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "11764074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11764074", "title": "William Coleman (judge)", "text": "William Coleman (judge)\n\nWilliam Coleman (1704 – January 11, 1769) was a merchant, lawyer, municipal official, and judge in colonial Philadelphia.\n\nColeman was born in Philadelphia, where he was educated and studied law. His parents were Quakers; his mother, Rebecca Bradford, had arrived in the new colony of Pennsylvania as a child in 1683, and his father, also William Coleman, was a carpenter and one of the earliest members of the Carpenter's Company of Philadelphia.\n\nAfter he was admitted to the bar, Coleman held a variety of municipal offices, beginning as Town Clerk and Clerk of the City Court. He became a Judge of various local courts including the Orphan's Court, Court of Common Pleas, and Quarter Sessions. In 1758 he was appointed an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. He was also a merchant, in partnership with Thomas Hopkinson. He was also active in Philadelphia's emerging cultural institutions. By 1727 Coleman was a friend of Benjamin Franklin and member of Franklin's Junto. He was a founder and first treasurer of the American Philosophical Society, one of the first directors of the Philadelphia Contributionship, and an early supporter of Pennsylvania Hospital.\n\nBenjamin Franklin was a close friend of Colman, and said of him, \"He has the coolest, clearest head, the best heart, and the best morals of almost any man I ever met.\"\n\nColeman was also a founder of the College of Philadelphia (now the University of Pennsylvania, serving as the original clerk of the Board of Trustees, 1749–1755, and as its first treasurer, 1749–1764.\n\nIn 1738, William Coleman married Hannah Fitzwater, daughter of George Fitzwater, a successful merchant and landowner. The couple was childless, but Coleman adopted his nephew, George Clymer, son of Hannah's sister Deborah and Captain Christopher Clymer, a sea captain and privateer.\n\nIn 1747, Coleman joined with other Philadelphia merchants to fit out a privateer, \"The Warren\", to defend the Delaware River and Bay from Spanish and French pirates, who had been carrying off slaves and other property in the bay and river. The Philadelphia Friends Meeting considered this incompatible with the Meeting's pacifist beliefs and read Coleman out of the Meeting. Subsequently, Coleman joined with Franklin to help manage a public lottery held in 1748 to raise funds to cover the costs of building Philadelphia's first military defense, the Association Battery.\n\nIn 1756, William Coleman purchased 12 acres of land along the Schuykill River, where he built an elegant country home which he named Woodford.\n\nIn 1761, Coleman was appointed to serve as one of the Pennsylvania Members of the Commission formed to adjust the disputed boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland. English surveyors Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon were engaged to record the boundary, now known as the Mason-Dixon line, and the Commission certified their map of the boundary line in 1768.\n\nHe died in Philadelphia on January 11, 1769.\n\n"}
{"id": "1226966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226966", "title": "William Houston", "text": "William Houston\n\nWilliam Churchill Houston ( 1746 – August 12, 1788) was an American teacher, lawyer and statesman. He was a delegate to both the Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention for New Jersey. Houston was elected in 1785 to the American Philosophical Society.\n\nHouston was born in the Sumter District of central South Carolina. His parents, Archibald and Margaret Houston, were farmers who had emigrated to the then British colony from Ireland. He attended the College of New Jersey (later Princeton University). After his graduation in 1768 he stayed on as a tutor, becoming a Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy (science) in 1771. \n\nWhen British forces occupied Princeton in 1776 at the outset of the Revolution the college was closed and the students and professors returned home. Houston then joined with the militia of nearby Somerset County and saw action in the area. He was later elected Captain of one of their companies. When the British withdrew from New Jersey in 1777 and the college reopened, he returned to his teaching post.\n\nHe was elected to represent Somerset County in the New Jersey General Assembly in 1777. In 1778 he served on the state’s Committee of Safety. Then from 1779 to 1781 New Jersey sent him as a delegate to the Continental Congress. His work in Congress was largely directed to issues of finance and supply. He began to study law at this time.\n\nHe returned to the college, and was admitted to the bar in 1781. Houston also opened a law office in Trenton. During these years he was also named as clerk of the New Jersey Supreme Court. In 1783, he resigned from the college to devote himself to his legal career. He returned to the Continental Congress in 1784 and 1785.\n\nIn 1786, Houston was appointed to a commission to study the defects in the Articles of Confederation which joined the states. He went to the Annapolis Convention to discuss the problem. Instead of proposing changes to the articles, this Convention called for a full Constitutional Convention. When the United States Constitutional Convention assembled in 1787, he went to Philadelphia as a delegate. Houston only remained at the convention for a week before his failing health caused him to withdraw.\n\nHe died of tuberculosis the following year in Frankford, Pennsylvania (now part of Philadelphia) and was buried at the Second Presbyterian Church Cemetery in Philadelphia. Later, he was reburied at the Mount Vernon Cemetery in Philadelphia.\n"}
{"id": "14938595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938595", "title": "Émile Banning", "text": "Émile Banning\n\nÉmile Theodore Joseph Hubert Banning (12 October 1836 – 13 July 1898) was a doctor of philosophy and literature and a Belgian senior civil servant who played an important role in the Belgian politics of the 19th century.\n\nBorn in Liège, Banning started his career as a journalist with the \"l'Écho du Parlement\", where he became an observer of the political life, after a stay at the Royal Library as its archivist and librarian, he was appointed at the department of Foreign Affairs where he quickly became a kind of oracle in all the historical and geographical questions of his time.\n\nOut of a \"simple\" historian he became a leading actor of the great decisions in matters of Belgian domestic as well as international policy. His knowledge of the world was of great support for Leopold II of Belgium, even if the king moved away more and more from the advice of Banning.\n\nÉmile Banning was a leading negotiator at the time of the negotiations on the status of Congo of Berlin in 1884 and Brussels in 1890. His political doctrines, based on high international morality and the respect of the law of nations, influenced many Belgian personalities such as Pierre Orts.\n\nHe died in Brussels on 13 July 1898.\n\n\n"}
