{"id": "48928177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48928177", "title": "2016 Myanmar public holidays", "text": "2016 Myanmar public holidays\n\nThe 2016 Myanmar public holidays are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "39925485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39925485", "title": "Alan W. Moore", "text": "Alan W. Moore\n\nAlan W. Moore (born 1951, in Chicago) is an art historian and activist whose work addresses cultural economies and groups and the politics of collectivity. After a stint as an art critic, Moore made video art and installation art from the mid-1970s on. He runs the House Magic information project on self-organized, occupied social centers. He lives in Madrid.\n\nAlan W. Moore worked with the no wave artists' group Colab and helped start the cultural center ABC No Rio\n\nAlong with Coleen Fitzgibbon, Moore created a film in 1978 (finished in 2009) of a no wave concert to benefit Colab called \"X Magazine Benefit\" that documents a performance of Boris Policeband, DNA and James Chance and the Contortions. Shot in black and white super-8 the film captures the gritty look and sound of the music scene during that era. In 2013 it was exhibited at Salon 94, an art gallery in New York City.\n\nMoore created MWF Club in 1986 as a distribution company for Potato Wolf and All Color News COLAB television programs that aired on public access TV. MWF Club expanded to include programs from various other groups such as Communications Update, Downtown TV, Glenn O'Brien's TV Party, New Cinema, Cinema of Transgression, Naked Eye Cinema and numerous artists and filmmakers.\n\nIn the early 1990s he went back to school to study art history. He has written on artist collectives, cultural districts, and cultural economies.\n\nHe also has contributed chapters to \"Alternative Art NY\" (edited by Julie Ault) (University of Minnesota Press, 2002); \"Collectivism after Modernism\" (edited by Blake Stimson and Gregory Sholette) (University of Minnesota Press, 2007); \"Resistance: A Political History of the Lower East Side\" (edited by Clayton Patterson) (Seven Stories Press, 2006).\n\nIn 2013, Moore organized an exhibition workshop entitled \"XFR STN\" (Transfer Station) that was held at the New Museum. The opening night featured \"Moving Image Artists' Distribution Then & Now\" an ersatz assembly of participants in the MWF video club, introduced by Moore, Andrea Callard, Michael Carter, Nick Zedd and Coleen Fitzgibbon. In 2017 Moore participated in \"The Real Estate Show Extended/Berlin: Group exhibition on the subject of Gentrification, Real Estate Speculation and Selling out the City\" at Kunstpunkt Berlin. This show included many Berlin artists along with four original members of the \"Real Estate Show\" (1980): Moore, Becky Howland, Peter Mönnig and Joseph Nechvatal. Howland, Mönnig, Moore and Nechvatal also participated in a panel discussion on Real Estate and Art on June 3, 2017 that was moderated by sculptor Howard McCalebb of Dada Post, Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5874649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874649", "title": "And Eternity", "text": "And Eternity\n\nAnd Eternity is a fantasy novel by Piers Anthony. It is the seventh of eight books in the Incarnations of Immortality series.\n\nIn the seventh novel of the series, three women—the ghost of Jolie, the ghost of Orlene (daughter of Orb), and a fifteen-year-old drug-addicted prostitute named Vita—try to discover a way to restore the life of Orlene's baby, Gawain II, who had died as a result of a severe birth defect inflicted unknowingly by Gaea at the request of the child's ghost father Gawain. Nox, the mysterious Incarnation of Night, promises to help, but she needs a specific item of great value from each of the other Incarnations in order to resurrect the baby. The three women set out to meet with each of the other seven Incarnations of Day.\n\nIn the process of obtaining the items, they conclude that the definitions of Good and Evil used to classify souls as destined for Heaven and Hell are flawed. Orlene's soul had been denied access to Heaven because she committed suicide in a futile attempt to help her baby. Vita meets and comes under the protection of an older male judge; they fall in love and have sex, but this too is considered Evil, because Vita is below the legal age of consent. The three women eventually succeed in gaining the item from each one of the Incarnations, with the exception of God, the Incarnation of Good, who has become obsessed with his own greatness and is completely unresponsive to the outside world.\n\nReporting their discovery to the other Incarnations, they all conclude that God has been derelict in his duty and must be replaced so that the eventual triumph of Evil can be prevented. Luna Kaftan, now an influential Senator, begins a campaign to impeach God and declare the office of the Incarnation of Good vacant. Thus, the final conflict between Good and Evil becomes a political one, fought with words and votes in the halls of a legislature, and not by armies on a battlefield.\n\nDespite Satan's efforts, Luna's campaign succeeds, and a mortal must now be chosen to become the new Incarnation of Good. However, the replacement must be selected by a unanimous vote of all the other Incarnations, including Satan himself—and why would the Incarnation of Evil approve a candidate who would effectively promote the cause of Good? Each Incarnation, in turn, nominates a mortal for the position. (Gaea's nominee happens to be the same judge that became Vita's lover.)\n\nAfter all the other Incarnations make their suggestions, to their complete amazement, Satan nominates Orlene, whose soul had become exactly half evil as a result of choices none of the other Incarnations were willing to condemn. The other Incarnations immediately agree that Satan has made the best possible choice, and they unanimously declare Orlene to be the new Incarnation of Good.\n\nTherefore, the girls find that Nox had set up the items from the other Incarnations to help Orlene take the place of God and in doing so, become God herself. In return, Orlene allows Nox to keep Gawain II as she will no longer be able to care for him and the child is content with the Incarnation of Night.\n\nAs Orlene does not ascend to be the Incarnation of Good until the very end of the novel, almost nothing is revealed about how God operates, what his specific powers are, or what his actual job entails. Nor is his normal method of transference revealed, as he is quite literally impeached. However, it is likely that he carries on much the same duties as Satan, merely in the sake of finding Good, rather than Evil.\n\nJackie Cassada in the Library Journal review says that \"This grand finale to one of the author's most popular series showcases Anthony's multiple strengths: high humor, appealing characters, serious themes, and a surprising - although, in hindsight, inevitable conclusion. \"\n"}
{"id": "3713466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3713466", "title": "Angelica vestis", "text": "Angelica vestis\n\nAngelica vestis, in English and European antiquity, was a monastic garment that laymen wore a little before their death, that they might have the benefit of the prayers of the monks.\n\nIt was from them called \"Angelical\", because they were called Angeli, who by these prayers \"animæ saluti succurrebant\". Thus, where we read the phrase \"ad succurrendum\" in old books, it must be understood of one who had put on the garment, and was at the point of death.\n\nThis customs persists today in Spain and Italy, where people, of quality especially, take care, when they feel their death coming, of having themselves clothed in the garment of some religious order, such as those of Saint Dominic or Saint Francis, with which they are exposed in public or buried.\n\n"}
{"id": "36137938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36137938", "title": "Charlie Allen (designer)", "text": "Charlie Allen (designer)\n\nCharles Allen (born 1958) is a British designer.\n\nAllen was educated at Highbury Grove School (under Rhodes Boyson) and at the Chelsea School of Art where he earned a diploma of art & design. At Chelsea School of Art, Allen specialised in painting and silk-screen printing.\n\nIn 1982, he graduated with a Master of Art in Menswear Design from the Royal College of Art since when he has been practising, in varying forms, as a tailor and designer.\nAllen was a winner of the International Linen Designer of the Year award and was Head of Menswear at the Royal College of Art (R.C.A.) from 1994 to 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3002116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3002116", "title": "City Life (magazine)", "text": "City Life (magazine)\n\nCity Life was a Manchester-based news, arts and listings magazine that was published between December 1983 and December 2005. It was a distinctive blend of radical politics and coverage of the increasingly exciting Manchester youth culture scene of the early 1980s, coinciding with the rise of Factory Records and The Haçienda. \n\nThe magazine was started by a small group of former Manchester University students, Ed Glinert, Chris Paul and Andy Spinoza, on a shoestring budget in a run-down building in Portland Street in the city centre. \n\nGlinert ran spiky and revelatory news stories about city politics and the great and good. Spinoza edited the arts and features and contributed a wide range of interviews and criticism. Paul was production editor and edited the sports section.\n\nWhen launched in 1983, the magazine was in a strong tradition of 'alternative' Manchester publications which included (in reverse chronology), City Fun, Manchester Flash, New Manchester Review and Mole Express, all of whose approach was to publish political and cultural content not reflected in the mainstream media of the city.\n\nDespite City Life's shoestring beginnings, it developed rapidly in professionalism and grew in prominence and influence in Manchester and beyond. Its life can be divided into two distinct periods, the first being the period 1983-89 when it was run as a workers' co-operative which grew from the initial founding trio to 16 staff at its peak. \n\nThere is a consensus that this 'independent' period was when the title had a rawer and radical edge than under its later ownership. Its political stories caused consternation and complaints - there were numerous spats with councils, quangos and occasionally blank spaces where legal injunctions had caused stories to be pulled just prior to printing.\n\nSimilarly, its arts writing can be seen as a vibrant record of a ground-level cultural renaissance taking place with the opening of new facilities as the Hacienda (1982), the Green Room performance venue (1984) and the Cornerhouse visual arts centre (1985); this upsurge was typified by the imaginative re-using of old and vacant city centre buildings for arts and leisure, and can be seen as a key building block of what was later hailed as the physical regeneration of Manchester city centre through widespread commercial investment and property development.\n\nIn 1989, it was bought by the Guardian Media Group (GMG), publishers of \"The Guardian\" and \"The Manchester Evening News\". GMG changed the style of the magazine, focusing more on listings and interviews, and branching out into publishing guide books and sponsoring events such as the \"City Life\" Food and Drink Festival and the \"City Life\" Comedian of the Year competition.\n\n\"City Life\" formed a loose association in 1984/5 with some other regional listings magazines including \"Due South Magazine\" (Southampton), \"Venue\" (Bristol), \"Coaster\" (Bournemouth), and \"The List\" (Glasgow and Edinburgh). Of these only \"Venue\" and \"The List\" survive, having been continually published since 1982 and 1985 respectively.\n\nIn November 2005 it was announced that \"City Life\" was to close a solus publication, with the edition published on 7 December being the final one. \n\n\"City Life\" now lives on as a 20-page supplement every Friday within the Manchester Evening News and continues to be the most read Whats On guide on the North of England (333k readers. Source: JICREG April 2014). Its website http://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/whats-on/ regularly generates over a million page views every month from more than 250k unique users (Source: Omniture September 2014)\n\nCityLife's sister title 'CityLife Extra' is a Free solus publication delivered every Thursday to 16k City Centre apartments and a further 6k copies handed out with the Manchester Evening News. Over half of its 64 pages are devoted to \"Urban Life\", advertising property for sale in the city.\n\nWriters:\n\n"}
{"id": "11075424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11075424", "title": "Creation of the World (Raphael)", "text": "Creation of the World (Raphael)\n\nCreation of the World is a mosaic composition in the dome of the Chigi Chapel in Santa Maria del Popolo, Rome, designed by Raphael. The chapel itself was designed by Raphael for his friend and patron, banker Agostino Chigi as a private chapel and family burial place. The dome was decorated with mosaics, a somewhat unusual and old-fashioned technique in the 16th century. Raphael's cartoons were executed by a Venetian craftsman, Luigi da Pace in 1516. The original cartoons were lost but some preparatory drawings, that confirm the originality of the work, survived in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. There are two studies for the figure of God and one for the angel above Jupiter. Another drawing in the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Lille shows the planet Mars with an angel. This is probably a creative drawing by a pupil suggested by its inferior quality. Luigi da Pace signed and dated the work at the corner of the panel of Venus:\n\n\"LV[dovicus] D[e] P[ace] V[enetus] F[ecit] 1516\"\n\nThe central roundel represents God, the Father, surrounded by putti, effectively foreshortened in an impetuous gesture, harking back to Michelangelo, which seems to give rise to the entire motion of the universe below. Eight mosaic panels show the Sun, the Moon, the starry sky and the six known planets as pagan deities depicted in half-length, each accompanied by an angel with colourful feathered wings. The figures are accompanied by the signs of the zodiac.\n\nThe sequence of the panels is as follows: the sky; Mercury, the god holding the caduceus (with Virgo and Gemini); Luna, the crescent moon jewelled goddess holding a bow (with Cancer); Saturn, the bearded god holding the scythe (with Aquarius and Capricorn); Jupiter, the king of the gods with his eagle holding a thunderbolt (with Sagittarius and Pisces); Mars, the god of war holding a sword and a shield (with Scorpio and Aries); Sol, the sun-jewelled god holding a bow (with Leo); Venus, the goddess of love with Cupid holding a torch as the Evening Star (with Taurus and Libra). A French engraver, Nicolas Dorigny created a series of plates depicting the mosaics in 1695 for Louis, Duke of Burgundy.\n\nThe mosaic panels are surrounded by richly gilded stucco decoration. The blue background creates an optical illusion giving the impression of an architectural framework opening to the sky above the chapel. The panels look like illusionistic skylights between the gilt stucco ribs while God is standing on the edge of the central oculus.\n\nThe traditional interpretation of the dome is that the composition shows the \"Creation of the World\". Another (disputed) interpretation claims that it represents the cosmos as described by Plato in a Christianized Neoplatonist form. This idea had a widespread popularity in the Renaissance. In this case the dome is a depiction of the Realm of the Soul after Death with God, the Father receiving the soul (of Agostino Chigi) in his new home. The presence of the signs of the zodiac corroborates this interpretation because the signs were symbols of the passage of time in eternity, and they appeared in antique funeral art around the image of the departed.\n\nNicole Riegel emphasized the role of the angels in the composition: \"In view of the important, anything but accessory position of the angels in the panels, there is an unmistakable effort for a reconciliation or interfusion of the Pagan and Christian life view.\"\n"}
{"id": "4760674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760674", "title": "Cuento", "text": "Cuento\n\nCuento is a Spanish word meaning literally \"story\" or \"tale\". Cuento may specifically refer to folk tales, a category of folklore that includes stories passed down through oral tradition. The word \"cuento\" may also be used as a verb to say \"tell\", as if you are \"telling\" a story (\"Cuento\"). \n\nIdioms using this word, translated into English, include:\n\nLatin American tales are unique in that they may represent a time before European invasion, and they may combine those traditions with the history and culture that arrived post-conquest. When the Spaniards came to Latin America in the 16th century, the indigenous people were forced to assimilate their culture with the Europeans'. Likewise, the content of the stories differed between the ages. However, there are few resources on cuentos for pre-conquest indigenous peoples in South America. A folklorist specializing in Spain and Spanish-originated folklore, Aurelio M. Espinosa discovered that \"most of the Spanish folklore which is found today in the Spanish-speaking countries of America is of traditional Spanish origin\". Pre-conquest information can only be found in what is left; this includes archaeological artifacts, sculpture and pottery, stories engraved in bone, shell, and stones, and codices. Only seventeen codices are intact, \"fifteen of which are known to predate the Colonial era, and two of which originated either before the Conquest or very soon after\". \n\nWith the knowledge that the natives in Latin America were made to blend culturally with the Spaniards when they arrived, the similarity of Latin American stories to Spanish stories must be considered. Terrence L. Hansen, a Latin American folklorist, attempted to index 1,747 folktales into 659 indexes such as \"animal tales,\" \"magic tales,\" \"religious tales,\" and \"jokes and anecdotes.\" The purpose of the study was to make \"accessible to folklorists both the individual types and the broad picture of the folktale in a large part of Spanish America\".\n\nRalph S. Boggs, a folklorist who studied Spanish and other European folktales, also compiled an index of tales across ten nations, one of these nations Spain. Hansen notes that in Boggs' \"A Comparative Survey of the Folktales of Ten Peoples\", Spain also had a large number of animal tales, pointing out the \"marked interest in such tales in Spain and in Spanish America\"; however, he indicates that Boggs' study showed Spain with a much lower percent of magic tales. After several such comparisons showing very close similarities as well as almost-opposite differences, he concluded that the index-analysis should be conducted for the other Spanish-speaking parts of the Americas before any explicit conclusions can be made about folktales in Latin America. Whether or not Latin American folktales should be compared to Spanish folktales as if they were a subcategory was not mentioned in the article; however, with differences in religion, tradition, history and other such elements that can turn a story into an entirely new direction, it is possible that folklorists will regard Latin American tales unique to Spanish tales in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "20960910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20960910", "title": "Culture of Artsakh", "text": "Culture of Artsakh\n\nCulture of Artsakh (formerly known as Nagorno-Karabakh) includes artifacts of tangible and intangible culture that has been historically associated with Artsakh and Nagorno-Karabakh—a historical province in the Southern Caucasus most of which is controlled by the Republic of Artsakh. These include monuments of religious and civil architecture, memorial and defense structures, and various forms of art.\n\nNagorno Karabakh and adjacent territories belonging to historical Artsakh (some of which fell under the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic's control in 1992-1994) has been called an open-sky treasure-house of various forms of Armenian architecture. Overall, Nagorno-Karabakh hosts several thousand architectural artifacts and historical monuments in a larger sense. In addition to ecclesiastical structures, this number includes samples of civil architecture, ancient castles and fortresses as well as numerous khachkars.\n\nThe art and architecture created in Nagorno Karabakh has progressed through the same major stages as did Armenian art in a larger sense. They began developing in the pre-Christian times, proceeded through the adoption of Christianity early in the fourth century, and entered the era of modernity after blossoming in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe principal expression of Artsakh's art in the Middle Ages was through ecclesiastical architecture: churches, cathedrals, chapels and monasteries. Most other forms of art in that period, including illuminated manuscripts, khachkars (Armenian: խաչքար; unique-to-Armenia stone slabs with engraved crosses) and mural paintings were likewise tied to Artsakh's religious life and its primary institution—the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nWorks of architecture in Nagorno-Karabakh are constructed according to similar principles and with the use of the same techniques as those in the rest of Armenia. Limestone is the principal building materials that form the nucleus for the walls. They are then covered with facing and/or plated with volcanic tuff rock slabs.\n\nIn large buildings in cities or in monasteries the exterior facing can consist of carefully cut blocks of tuff. The monasteries of Gandzasar and Dadivank serve as the primary examples of that style. For more modest structures, such as parish churches in provinces, it was common to use less carefully cut stone, a practice which creates a more rustic appearance.\n\nNames of monasteries in Nagorno Karabakh, like in the rest of historical Artsakh and Armenia, customarily include the term \"vank\" (Armenian: վանք), which means \"monastery.\" Examples: Dadivank, Gtichavank, Khunisavank, Khadavank, Khatravank, Yerits Mankants Vank, etc. Monasteries are often located in or near settlements that bear the name Vank (Վանք); the most notable cases include Dadivank Monastery, Gandzasar Monastery and Spitak Khach Vank Monastery. Names of castles and fortresses in Nagorno Karabakh like in the rest of historical Artsakh and Armenia, customarily include the term \"berd\" (Armenian: բերդ) which means \"fort.\" Examples: Jraberd, Handaberd, Mairaberd, Khokhanaberd, etc.\n\nThe earliest monuments in Artsakh relate to the pre-Christian era when polytheism was the most widespread form of religion. The most curious art form from that time period is, perhaps, large anthropomorphic stone idols that are found in the eastern lowlands of the northern counties of Jraberd (Armenian: Ջրաբերդ) and Khachen (Armenian: Խաչեն). They date from the Iron Age.\n\nIn the northeastern outskirts of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic, and further to the east, so-called sahmanakars (Armenian: սահմանաքար, meaning \"border stones\") are found. They originally appeared during the reign of the Artashessian (Artaxiad) royal dynasty in Armenia (190 BC-53 AD) who used the stones, with inscriptions, to demarcate the kingdom's frontiers for travelers. In Artsakh, the tradition of marking borders with sahmanakars endured throughout the Middle Ages. The largest of such medieval markers stands near the town of Mataghes (Armenian: Մատաղես) in the Mardakert District. An inscription on the stone declares: \"Here [the province of] Syunik ends.\" \n\nIn the early Middle Ages, Artsakh and neighboring provinces of Utik and Paytakaran, known together as The Eastern Prefectures of Armenia (Armenian: Կողմանք Արևելից Հայոց) became a target of missionary activities of prominent religious leaders from Armenian mainland. The most distinguished of them were St. Gregory the Illuminator (Armenian: Սբ. Գրիգոր Լուսավորիչ, died circa 337 AD), who baptized Armenia into the first Christian state in 301 AD, and St. Mesrob Mashtots (Armenian: Սբ. Մեսրոբ Մաշտոց, 361-440 AD), the scholar who created the Armenian alphabet.\n\nA number of Christian monuments that are identified with that vital period of the Armenian history belong to the world's oldest places of Christian worship. Among them is the Amaras Monastery (Armenian: Ամարասի Վանք), which, according to ancient authors, such as the forefather of Armenian history Movses Khorenatsi (approx.410-490), was founded in the 4th century AD by St. Gregory himself. The oldest part of the monastery is the martyrium of St. Grigoris (Armenian: Սբ. Գրիգորիս), St. Gregory's grandson and Bishop of Aghvank, who was killed by the pagans, around 338 AD, when teaching Gospel in the land of the Mazkuts (present-day Republic of Dagestan, in Russia). The mausoleum of St. Grigoris is a vaulted burial chamber equipped with two lateral vestibules that serves as the crypt for a church dating from a later period. Amaras is an active monastery of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nWhile traveling in Artsakh and the neighboring provinces of Syunik and Utik, in circa 410 AD, St. Mesrob Mashtots established a school at Amaras where the Armenian script, invented by him in 405 AD, was first introduced for teaching purposes.\n\nFor 35 years until his death in 440, Mashtots recruited teams of monks to translate the religious, scientific and literary masterpieces of the ancient world into this new alphabet. Much of their work was conducted in the monastery at Amaras …\" \n\nThe description of St. Mesrob Mashtots' journey to Artsakh and the neighboring province of Utik is a focal point of several chapters of the \"History of Aghvank\" (Armenian: Պատմություն Աղվանից) written in the 7th century by one of Artsakh's most prominent natives—Armenian historian Movses Kaghankatvatsi (Armenian: Մովսես Կաղանկատվացի).\n\nAnother temple whose history relates to the mission of St. Mesrob Mashtots is the Targmanchats Monastery (Armenian: Սբ. Թարգմանչաց Վանք) near Karhat (Armenian: Քարհատ, present-day Dashkesan in Azerbaijan, to the north of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic). The word Targmanchats (Armenian: Թարգմանչաց) meaning \"Saint Translators,\" designates both St. Mesrob Mashtots and St. Sahak Partev (Armenian: Սբ. Սահակ Պարթև), head of the Armenian Church (387-436 AD) who sponsored Mashtots' scholarly and religious expeditions. Using Mashtots' alphabet, St. Sahak Partev translated the Bible from Syriac into Armenian in 411 AD (as testified by Mashtots' pupil Koryun in his biographic work about his teacher). The main church of the monastery, reconstructed in 989, consists of one vaulted room (single nave) with an apse on the east flanked by two small rooms.\n\nThe basilica of St. Gevorg (Սբ. Գևորգ, St. George) at the Tzitzernavank Monastery (Armenian: Ծիծեռնավանք) in Kashatagh, is not only an important religious site, but is the best-preserved example of an Armenian basilica with three naves. It is a large and well-preserved structure dating probably from the fifth or sixth centuries. It stands not far from the so-called Lachin Corridor, a territory that connects Armenia with the Nagorno Karabakh Republic.The word Tzitzernavank originates from the root \"tzitzern\" (Armenian: ծիծեռն) meaning \"little finger\" in Old Armenian. This points to a period in the history of the monastery when it was believed to contain relics of St. George the Dragon-Slayer. In the past, the monastery belonged to the Tatev eparchy and is mentioned as a notable religious center by the 13th-century historian Stephanos Orbelian (Armenian: Սթեփանոս Օրբելյան) and Bishop Tovma Vanandetsi (Armenian: Թովմա Վանանդեցի) in 1655. Beginning from 1992, the Tzitzernavank Monastery underwent renovation and became a venue of autumn festivals organized annually on St. George's Day. Tzitzernavank is an active monastery of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nChurches with a cupola built on a radiating or cruciform floor plan were numerous in Armenia during the seventh century, and are well represented in Artsakh. One example is the chapel at Vankasar (Armenian: Վանքասար) where the cupola and its drum rest on the central square of a cruciform floor plan. The chapel is located on the eastern frontier of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic, and was reputedly founded by Artsakh's celebrated monarch Vachagan II the Pious (Armenian: Վաչագան Բ Բարեպաշտ) of the early medieval Arranshahik dynasty (Armenian: Առանշահիկ). Another example is the Okhta Trne church at Mokhrenes (Armenian: Օխտը Տռնէ, \"The Eight-Door Church\"), probably dating from the fifth to seventh centuries. Its walls, roughly cut and bonded, enclose a quatrefoil interior with four small diagonal niches. Less common is the free cross plan with a cupola, found in the Chapel of St. Savior (Armenian: Սբ. Փրկիչ) in the Mardakert District.\n\nArtsakh's designs at times differed from the course of the architectural evolution of mainland Armenia. Observations suggest that certain floor plans frequently employed in other regions of Armenia during the seventh century are not found in Artsakh. These include the chamber with a cupola supported by wall braces (e.g. the cathedral in Aruj, in the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia); the cruciform plan with a cupola on four free-standing pillars (e.g. St. Gayaneh Church in the Holy City of Echmiadzin, Armenia), and the radiating type with four rooms in a rectangle (e.g. St. Hripsimeh Church in the Holy City of Echmiadzin, Armenia).\n\nAnother peculiarity of the region is that few of Artsakh's monuments date from the post-Arab period or the rise of Armenian kingdoms (ninth to the eleventh centuries), which was a very productive artistic era in other Armenian provinces. The structures that could be attributed to that period are chapels on the cruciform plan with a cupola, such as the church at Varazgom (Armenian: Վարազգոմ) near Kashatagh, the Khunisavank Monastery (Armenian: Խունիսավանք) in Getabaks (now–Gedabey district of Azerbaijan, north to the Nagorno Karabakh Republic), and churches with a single nave, such as the church in Parissos (Armenian: Փարիսոս).\n\nIt was during the post-Seljuk period and the beginning of the Mongol period (late twelfth and thirteenth centuries) when Artsakh's architecture blossomed. Monasteries in this era served as active centers of art and scholarship. Most of them contained scriptoria where manuscripts were copied and illuminated. They also were fortified and often served as places of refuge for the population in times of trouble.\n\nSeveral monastic churches from this period adopted the model used most widely throughout Armenia: a cathedral with a cupola in the inscribed cross plan with two or four angular chambers. Examples include the largest and most complex monasteries of Artsakh: Dadivank (Armenian: Դադիվանք, 1214–1237), Gandzasar (Armenian: Գանձասար, 1216–1238) and Gtichavank (Armenian: Գտիչավանք, 1241–1246). In the case of the Gandzasar and Gtichavank monasteries, the cone over the cupola is umbrella-shaped, a picturesque design that was originally developed by the architects of Armenia's former capital city of Ani, in the tenth century, and subsequently spread to other provinces of the country, including Artsakh.\n\nLike all Armenian monasteries, those in Artsakh reveal great geometric rigor in the layout of buildings. In this regard, the thirteenth century's Dadivank, the largest monastic complex in Artsakh and all of Eastern Armenia, located in the northwestern corner of the Mardakert District, is a remarkable case. Dadivank was sufficiently well preserved to leave no doubt that it was one of the most complete monasteries in the entire Caucasus. With its Memorial Cathedral of the Holy Virgin in the center, Dadivank has approximately twenty different structures, which are divided into four groups: ecclesiastical, residential, defensive and ancillary. Dadivank is an active monastery of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nA conspicuous characteristic of Armenian monastic architecture of the thirteenth century is the gavit (գավիթ, also called zhamatoun; Armenian: ժամանտուն). The gavits are special square halls usually attached to the western entrance of churches. They were very popular in large monastic complexes where they served as narthexes, assembly rooms and lecture halls, as well as vestibules for receiving pilgrims. Some appear as simple vaulted galleries open to the south (e.g. in the Metz Arrank Monastery; Armenian: Մեծառանից Վանք); others have an asymmetrical vaulted room with pillars (Gtichavank Monastery); or feature a quadrangular room with four central pillars supporting a pyramidal dome (the Dadivank Monastery). In another type of gavit, the vault is supported by a pair of crossed arches – in Horrekavank (Armenian: Հոռեկավանք) and Bri Yeghtze (Armenian: Բռի Եղցէ) monasteries.\n\nThe most famous gavit in Nagorno-Karabakh, though, is part of the Gandzasar Monastery. It was built in 1261 and is distinctive for its size and superior quality of workmanship. Its layout corresponds exactly to that of Haghbat (Armenian: Հաղբատ) and Mshakavank (Armenian: Մշակավանք)—two monasteries located in the northern part of Armenia. At the center of the ceiling, the cupola is illuminated by a central window which is adorned with the same stalactite ornaments as in Geghard (Armenian: Գեղարդ) and Harichavank (Armenian: Հառիճավանք)—monasteries in Armenia dating from the early thirteenth century.\n\nThe Gandzasar Monastery was the spiritual center of Khachen (Armenian: Խաչեն), the largest and most powerful principality in medieval Artsakh, by virtue of being home to the Katholicosate of Aghvank. Аlso known as the Holy See of Gandzasar, Katholicosate of Aghvank (Armenian: Աղվանից Կաթողիկոսություն) was one of the territorial subdivisions of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nGandzasar's Cathedral of St. Hovhannes Mkrtich (Armenian: Սբ. Հովհաննես Մկրտիչ, designating St. John the Baptist) is one of the most well-known Armenian architectural monuments of all times. No surprise, Gandzasar is number one tourist attraction in the Nagorno Karabakh Republic. In its decor there are elements which relate it to three other monuments, in Armenia, from the early thirteenth century: the colonnade on the drum resembles that of Harichavank (Armenian: Հառիճավանք; built around 1201), and the great cross with a sculpture of Crucifixion at the top of the facade is also found at Kecharis (Armenian: Կեչառիսի Վանք, built around 1214) and Hovhannavank (Armenian: Հովհաննավանք, 1216–1250). Gandzasar an active monastery of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nGandzasar and Dadivank are also well known for their bas-reliefs that embellish their domes and walls. After the Cathedral of St. Cross on the Lake Van (also known as Akhtamar-Ախթամար, in Turkey), Gandzasar contains the largest amount of sculpted decor compared to other architectural ensembles of Armenia. The most famous of Gandzasar's sculptures are Adam and Eve, Jesus Christ, the Lion (a symbol of the Vakhtangian princes (Armenian: Վախթանգյան իշխաններ) who built both Gandzasar and Dadivank), and the Churchwardens—each holding on his hands a miniature copy of the cathedral. In Dadivank, the most important bas-relief depicts the patrons of the monastery, whose stone images closely resemble those carved on the walls of the Haghbat, Kecharis and Harichavank monasteries, in Armenia.\n\nAlthough in this period the focus in Artsakh shifted to more complex structures, churches with a single nave continued to be built in large numbers. One example is the monastery of St. Yeghishe Arakyal (Armenian: Սբ. Եղիշե Առաքյալ, also known as the Jrvshtik Monastery (Ջրվշտիկ), which in Armenian means \"Longing-for-Water\"), in the historical county of Jraberd, that has eight single-naved chapels aligned from north to south. One of these chapels is a site of high importance for the Armenians, as it serves as a burial ground for Artsakh's fifth-century monarch King Vachagan II the Pious Arranshahik. Also known as Vachagan the Pious for his devotion to the Christian faith and support in building a large number of churches throughout the region, King Vachagan is an epic figure whose deeds are immortalized in many of Artsakh's legends and fairytales. The most famous of those tells how Vachagan fell in love with the beautiful and clever Anahit, who then helped the young king defeat pagan invaders.\n\nAfter an interruption that lasted from the fourteenth to the sixteenth centuries, architecture flourished again, in the seventeenth century. Many parish churches were built, and the monasteries, serving as bastions of spiritual, cultural and scholarly life, were restored and enlarged. The most notable of those is the Yerits Mankants Monastery (\"Monastery of Three Infants,\" Armenian: Երից Մանկանց Վանք) that was built around 1691 in the county of Jraberd. The monastery was established by the feudal family of Melik-Israelians (Armenian: Մելիք-Իսրաելյան), Lords of Jraberd, with an apparent purpose to rival the Holy See of Gandzasar and its hereditary patrons—the Hasan-Jalalians, Lords of Khachen.\n\nArtsakh's architecture of the nineteenth century is distinguished by a merger of innovation and the tradition of grand national monuments of the past. One example is the Cathedral of the Holy Savior also known as \"Ghazanchetsots\" (Armenian: Ղազանչեցոց Սբ. Ամենափրկիչ, 1868–1888) because it was erected in the historical Ghazanchetsots (Ղազանչեցոց) borough of Shusha. It stands in Shusha, former capital of Karabakh Khanate and is among the largest Armenian churches ever erected. The cathedral's architectural forms were influenced by the designs of the ancient cathedral of St. Echmiadzin (4th-9th centuries), center of the Armenian Apostolic Church located to the west of Armenia's capital of Yerevan. After the Karabakh War, the Cathedral underwent restoration, and currently serves as an active house of worship of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nIn addition to the Cathedral of the Holy Savior, Shusha hosted the Hermitage of Holy Virgins (Armenian: Կուսանաց Անապատ, 1816) and three other Armenian churches: Holy Savior \"Meghretsots\" (Armenian: Մեղրեցոց Սբ. Ամենափրկիչ, 1838), St. Hovhannes \"Kanach Zham\" (Armenian: Սբ. Հովհաննես, 1847) and Holy Savior \"Aguletsots\" (Armenian: Ագուլեցոց Սբ. Ամենափրկիչ, 1882).\n\nIn the nineteenth century, several Muslim monuments appear as well. They are linked to the emergence of the Karabakh Khanate, a short-lived, Muslim-ruled principality in Karabakh (1750s-1805). In the city of Shusha, three nineteenth-century mosques were built, which, together with two Russian Orthodox chapels, are the only non-Armenian architectural monuments found on the territories comprising the former Nagorno Karabakh Autonomous Region and today's Nagorno Karabakh Republic.\n\nFrom the 17th and 18th centuries, several palaces of Armenian meliks (Armenian: մելիք, duke) should be noted, especially the Palace of the Melik-Beglarian (Armenian: Մելք-Բեգլարյան) family in Giulistan (in the Shahumian District), Palace of the Melik-Avanian (Armenian: Մելք-Ավանյան) family in Togh (in the Hadrut District), Palace of the Melik-Mnatzakanian (Armenian: Մելք-Մնացականյան) family in Getashen, Palace of the Melik-Haikazian (Armenian: Մելիք-Հայկազյան) family in Kashatagh (in the Kashatagh-Lachin District), Palace of the Melik-Dolukhanian (Armenian: Մելք-Դոլուխանյան) family in Tukhnakal (near Stepanakert) and, finally, Palace of the Khan of Karabakh in the city of Shusha. Princely palaces from earlier epochs, while badly damaged by time, are equally if not more impressive. Among those preserved is the Palace of the Dopian Princes, Lords of Tzar, near Aknaberd (in the Mardakert District).\n\nArtsakh's medieval inns (called \"idjevanatoun;\" Armenian: իջևանատուն) comprise a separate category of civil structures. The best preserved example of those is found near the town of Hadrut.\n\nBefore its destruction in 1920 the main repository of the region's civil architecture was Shusha. In the late 19th century, Shusha became one of the largest cities in Caucasus. In 1913, it hosted more than 42,000 people.\n\nShusha's architecture had its unique style and spirit. That special style synthesized designs used in building grand homes in Artsakh's rural areas (especially in the southern county of Dizak) and elements of neo-classical European architecture. The quintessential example of Shusha's residential dwellings is the house of the Avanesantz family (19th century). Shusha's administrative buildings of note include: Royal College (1875), Eparchial College (1838), Technical School (1881) summer and winter clubs of the City Hall (1896 and 1901), The Zhamharian Hospital (1900), The Khandamirian Theater (1891), The Holy Virgin Women's College (1864) and Mariam Ghukassian Nobility High School (1894). Of these buildings, only Royal College and the Zhamharian Hospital survived the Turko-Muslim attack on the city in 1920.\n\nThe best-preserved examples of Artsakh's rural civil architecture are found in historical settlements of Banants (Armenian: Բանանց), Getashen (Armenian: Գետաշեն), Hadrut (Armenian: Հադութ) and Togh (Armenian: Տող).\n\nThe first record of damage to historical monuments occurred during the early medieval period. During the Armenian-Persian war of 451-484 AD, the Amaras Monastery was wrecked by Persian conquerors who sought to bring pagan practices back to Armenia. Later, In 821, Armenia was overrun by Arabs, and Amaras was plundered. In the same century, however, the monastery was rebuilt under the patronage of Prince Yesai (Armenian: Եսայի Իշխան Առանշահիկ), Lord of Dizak, who bravely fought against the invaders. In 1223, as testified by the Bishop Stephanos Orbelian (died in 1304), Amaras was looted again—at this time, by the Mongols—who took with them St. Grigoris' crosier and a large golden cross decorated with 36 precious stones. According to Orbelian, the wife of the Mongolian leader, Byzantine Princess Despina, proposed to send the cross and the crosier to Constantinople.\n\nIn 1387, Amaras and ten other monasteries of Artsakh were attacked by Tamerlane's hordes from Central Asia. According to a local Armenian legend, Tamerlane destroyed Amaras and ordered his soldiers to make up a miles-long line from the monastery all the way to the River Arax. Tamerlane's soldiers were passing on the stones of the demolished buildings from one person to another and throwing them into the water to form a bridge. But as soon as the conquerors left the region, the legend says, the region's inhabitants rushed to the river, brought the stones back and rebuilt the monastery to its original state. It must have been at that time when Amaras' famous scriptorium was established.\n\nShortly after the Armenian Genocide and the end of the Caucasus Campaign in 1918, a Pogrom instigated by the Muslim Azerbaijani Population in 1920 resulted in the destruction of the entire Armenian quarter of the city, which had a devastating effect on cities architecture heritage and position as a major trade city and producer of silk in the 19th century. After the entry of Turko-Islamic nomads to Karabakh's highlands in the 1750s, the city became divided into two parts: Armenian and Muslim. Although the Islamic Turkic tribesmen (known since the 1930s as \"Azerbaijanis\") constituted a small percentage of the population of Artsakh's highlands, their largest concentration was in Shusha, where they lived in peace with the Armenian population there. However, during the early 20th century the cities cosmpolitan and tolerant attitude began to fall apart, and became a venue of sporadic inter-communal violence, but it was in March 1920 when it received the deadliest blow of all. Aided by expeditionary Ottoman forces, armed Turko-Tartar (\"Azerbaijani\" ) bands burned and destroyed the Armenian section of the city, murdering most of its Armenian residents in the process— some 20,000 people in total.\n\nThe city's three out of five Armenian churches were totally destroyed by the Turkic bands: Holy Savior \"Meghretzotz\" (Armenian: Մեղրեցոց Սբ. Փրկիչ, built in 1838), Holy Savior \"Aguletzotz\" (Armenian: Ագուլեցոց Սբ. Փրկիչ, built in 1882) and Hermitage of Holy Virgins (Armenian: Կուսանաց Անապատ, built in 1816). The Cathedral of the Holy Savior (1868–1888) was desecrated and severely damaged. With as many as 7,000 buildings demolished, Shusha has never been restored to its former grandeur. Instead, it shrank, becoming a small town populated by Azerbaijanis(14 thousand residents in 1987 versus 42 thousand in 1913). It stood in ruins from 1920 up to the mid-1960s, when the ruins of the city's Armenian half were bulldozed by orders from Baku and cheaply built apartment complexes were built on top of them.\n\nThe Karabakh War (1991-1994) likewise left its deep scars on the architectural face of Nagorno Karabakh. The Azerbaijani Army intentionally targeted Armenian Christian monuments for the purpose of their demolition, using, among a variety of means, heavy artillery and military airplanes. Both Amaras and Gandzasar monasteries suffered in the process. Robert Bevan writes: \"The Azeri campaign against the Armenian enclave of Nagorno Karabakh which began in 1988 was accompanied by cultural cleansing that destroyed the Egheazar monastery and 21 other churches.\"\n\nTwo out of the three mosques in the city of Shusha also suffered during the war when Armenian forces captured the town in 1992. The authorities of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic, however, are restoring at least one of the mosques, reportedly with some help from Iranian architects.\n\nThe fortresses of the region (called \"berd\" in Armenian; բերդ) were usually built on hard-to-reach rocks or on the tips of mountains,using the rugged and heavily forested terrain of the region. Some of the fortresses in Nagorno Karabakh include Jraberd (Armenian: Ջրաբերդ), Handaberd (Armenian: Հանդաբերդ), Kachaghakaberd (Armenian: Կաչաղակաբերդ), Shikakar (Armenian: Շիկաքար), Giulistan (Armenian: Գյուլիստան), Mairaberd (Armenian: Մայրաբերդ), Toghaberd (Armenian: Տողաբերդ), Aknaberd (Armenian: Ակնաբերդ), and Aghjkaberd (Armenian: Աղջկաբերդ). These Castles belonged to Artsakh's aristocratic families, safeguarding their domains against foreign invaders that came from the eastern steppes. The forts were established very early in the history of the region, and each successive generation of their custodians contributed to their improvement.\n\nWhen the Principality of Khachen forged ties with the Kingdom of Cilicia (1080–1375), an independent Armenian state on the Mediterranean Sea that aided the Crusaders, a small number of Artsakh's fortifications acquired a certain Cilician look as a result.\n\nThe Handaberd Castle, the traditional stronghold of the Vakhtangian-Dopian Princes located in Karvachar (Armenian: Քարվաճառ, Azerbaijan's former district of Kelbajar), was rebuilt with a grant received from Cilicia's King Levon I; for that it was also known as \"Levonaberd\" (Armenian: Լևոնաբերդ).\n\nKarabakh's most remarkable pieces of fortifications, though, are the Citadel of Shusha and Askeran Fortress. Backed by an intricate system of camps, recruiting centers, watchtowers and fortified beacons, both belonged to the so-called Lesser Syghnakh (Armenian: Փոքր Սղնախ), which was one of Artsakh's two main historical military districts responsible for defending the southern counties of Varanda and Dizak. When the Citadel of Shusha was founded by Panah Ali Khan Javanshir, the founder of the Karabakh Khanate, its walls and other fortifications were built.\n\nKhachkars (Armenian: խաչքար), stone slab monuments decorated with a cross, represent a special chapter in the history of sculpture, and are unique to historical Armenia.\n\nIn the first stage of their evolution, this type of monuments already existed in Artsakh, as attested by one of the earliest dated samples found on the eastern shore of the Lake Sevan (at Metz Mazra, year 881) which at that time was part of the dominion of Artsakh's Princes of Tzar. A very large number of khachkars is also found on the territory of today's Nagorno Karabakh Republic and adjacent regions.\n\nSeveral thirteenth-century examples look particularly refined, and a few of them deserve a special attention for their superior design. The two khachkars of the Gtichavank Monastery (Armenian: Գտիչավանք) dating from about 1246 (one of which is preserved at St. Echmiadzin in Armenia), show the two bishops who founded Gtichavank. There are also the two tall khachkar plaques placed inside the Memorial Bell-Tower at the Dadivank Monastery (1283), which are veritable laceworks in stone.\n\nArtsakh's most well-known example of embedded khachkars—where khachkars standing next to each other form some kind of hooded iconostas-in-stone—is the Bri Yeghtze Monastery (Armenian: Բռի Եղծէ Վանք), in the historical country of Varanda (Armenian: Վարանդա, presently in the Martuni District of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic). The use of embedded khachkars in Bri Yeghtze is the same as in the Tzaghatz Kar Monastery (Armenian: Ցաղաղ Քարի Վանք, in Vayots Dzor Province of Armenia) and in the Horomos Monastery near Kars (Armenian: Հոռոմոսի Վանք, now in Turkey).\n\nA large khachkar, brought from Artsakh's Metz Arants Hermitage (Armenian: Մեծ Առանց Անապատ) to St. Echmiadzin, represents a rare type of the so-called \"winged crosses\" which resemble Celtic cross stones from Scotland and Ireland. The largest collection of standing khachkars in Artsakh is in the area called Tsera Nahatak, near the village of Badara.\n\nIn most cases, facades and walls of Artsakh's churches and monasteries contain engraved texts in Armenian that often provide the precise date of construction, names of patrons and, sometimes, even name of the architect. The number of such texts exceeds several hundred.\n\nCovering the walls of churches and monasteries with ornamented texts in Armenian developed in Artsakh, and in many other places in historical Armenia, into a unique form of decor. Compared with other Armenian lands, Artsakh contains a very large number of Armenian lapidary (inscribed in stone) texts per unit of territory, which date from the 5th century. The most notable and extensive of those cover entire walls of the Dadivank and Gandzasar monasteries.\n\nA prominent inscription, for instance, details the foundation of Dadivank's Memorial Cathedral; it covers a large area of the Cathedral's southern facade. It begins with the following section:\n\n\"By the grace of God Almighty and his only begotten son Jesus Christ, and by the grace of the most Holy Spirit, I, Arzou Hatun, humble servant of the Christ, the daughter of the greatest prince of princes Kurt and the spouse of the Crown Prince Vakhtang, Lord of Haterk and the whole of Upper Khachen, with utmost hope have built this holy cathedral in the place of the last rest of my husband and my two sons … My elder [son] Hasan martyred for his Christian faith in the war against the Turks; and in three months my younger son Grigor died of natural causes and passed to the Christ, leaving his mother in inconsolable mourning. While [my sons] were alive, they vowed to build a church to the glory of God … and I undertook the construction of this expiatory temple with utmost hope and diligence, for the salvation of their souls, and mine and all of my nephews. Thus I plead: while worshipping before the holy altar, remember my prayers inscribed on this church … Completed in the year [modern 1214] of the Armenian Calendar…\" \n\nAnother historic text inscribed in Armenian is found on the tombstone of St. Grigoris, Bishop of Artsakh, at the Amaras Monastery. St. Grigoris was St. Gregory the Enlightener's grandson who martyred preaching Gospel in the Northern Caucasus:\n\n\"The tomb of St. Grigoris, Katholicos of Aghvank, grandson of St. Gregory; born in [322 AD], anointed in the year [340 AD], martyred in the year [348 AD] in Derbend, by King Sanesan of the Mazkuts; his holy remains were brought to Amaras by his pupils, deacons from Artsakh.\" \n\nFew of Artsakh's frescoes were preserved, but those which survived are important for the history of Armenian fresco art because of their unique compositional features and color schemes. The largest collection of Artsakh's frescos are found inside the Memorial Cathedral (1214), at the Dadivank Monastery. The Memorial Cathedral was built by the orders of Queen Arzou of Haterk. The paintings depict St. Mary, Jesus Christ and St. Nicholas, with a group of angels and worshippers.\n\nThe fresco on the southern wall shows the Holy Virgin in a long robe with a red kerchief tied around her head. She is holding an oration adorned with crosses. Another fresco portrays the Christ, as he is giving the Gospel to St. Nicholas. The fresco on the northern wall represents the birth of Jesus: St. Joseph stands at St. Mary's bedside, and the three magicians kneel in adoration in front; cherubs fly in the sky above them, singing Glory in Highest Heaven. A native of Artsakh and the 13th century author Kirakos Gandzaketsi (Armenian: Կիրակոս Գանձակեցի) hints in his \"History of Armenia\" that Queen Arzou (Armenian: Առզու Թագուհի) and her daughters were gifted with exceptional artistic talent, so it has been theorized that they could have been among those who helped paint the murals. Other than at Dadivank, Some other frescoes are found in the main parish church of the town of Arajadzor in Mardakert District.\n\nMore than thirty known medieval manuscripts originate in Artsakh, Many of which are 13th and 14th century illuminated manuscripts created during the Principality of Khachen. These scripts were created in Ganja, Azerbaijan, as well as at Karabakh's monasteries of Gandzasar, Khoranashat (Armenian: Խորանաշատ), Targmanchatz, Holy Virgin of Tzar (Armenian: Ծառա Սբ. Աստվածածին) and Yerits Mankants (Armenian: Երից Մանկանց Վանք). A group of illuminated works is specific to the regions of Artsakh and Utik; in their linear and unadorned style they resemble miniatures of the Syunik and Vaspurakan schools. These compositions are simple and monumental, often with an iconography that is original and distinct from Byzantine models. Besides depicting biblical stories, several of Artsakh's manuscripts attempt to convey the images of the rulers of the region who often ordered the rewriting and illumination of the texts. Manuscript No. 115 preserved at the Matenadaran Institute of Ancient Manuscripts in Yerevan, Armenia contains a miniature portrait of Prince Vakhtang Tangik (Armenian: Վախթանգ Թանգիկ, Vakhtang the Precious) Lord of Haterk.\n\nDuring the 12th-15th centuries several dozens of well-known scriptoria functioned in Artsakh and neighboring Utik. The best period of Artsakh's miniature painting may be divided into two main stages. The first one includes the second half of the 12th and the beginning of the 13th centuries. The second stage includes the second half of the 13th century to the beginning of the 14th century. Among the most interesting works of the first stage one can mention the Matenadaran manuscript no. 378, called the Gospel of Prince Vakhtang Khachentsi (produced in 1212), and the Matenadaran manuscript no. 4829, a Gospel produced in 1224 and associated with the name of Princess Vaneni Jajro.\n\nCarpets and rugs are a form of art which is central to the artistic identity of the region. It is known that in the tenth century dyed fabrics and rugs from Artsakh were highly valued in the Arab world. Two accounts by the historian Kirakos Gandzaketsi mention embroideries and altar curtains handmade by his contemporaries Arzou and Khorishah—two princesses of the House of Upper Khachen (Haterk/Հաթերք)—for the Dadivank Monastery. In the 19th century, local rugs and samples of natural silk production became part of international exhibitions and art fairs in Moscow, Philadelphia and Paris.\n\nThe abundance of rugs produced in the modern period is rooted in this solid ancient tradition. Indeed, recent research has begun to highlight the importance of the Armenian region of Artsakh in the history of a broader group of rugs classified as \"Caucasian.\" Woven works by Artsakh's Armenians come in several types. Rugs in an \"eaglebands\" (Armenian: արծվագորգ/artzvagorg) or \"sunburst\" (Armenian: արևագորգ/arevagorg) pattern, a sub-type of Armenian rug featuring dragons, whose manufacturing center from the eighteenth century was Artsakh's county of Jraberd, have characteristically large radiating medallions. Other rugs come with ornaments resembling serpents (\"serpentbands;\" Armenian: օձագորգ/odzagorg) or clouds with octagonal medallions comprising four pairs of serpents in an \"S\" shape, and rugs with a series of octagonal, cross-shaped or rhomboid medallions, often bordered by a red band.\n\nArtsakh is also the source of some of the oldest rugs bearing Armenian inscriptions: the rug with three niches from the town of Banants (1602), the rug of Catholicos Nerses of Aghvank (1731), and the famous Guhar (Gohar) Rug (1700). It should also be added that most rugs with Armenian inscriptions come from Artsakh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "630795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630795", "title": "Ecstasy (emotion)", "text": "Ecstasy (emotion)\n\nEcstasy (from Ancient Greek ἔκστασις \"ékstasis\") is a subjective experience of total involvement of the subject, with an object of his or her awareness. In classical Greek literature it refers to removal of the mind or body \"from its normal place of function.\"\n\nTotal involvement with an object of interest is not an ordinary experience because of being aware of other objects, thus ecstasy is an example of an altered state of consciousness characterized by diminished awareness of other objects or the total lack of the awareness of surroundings and everything around the object. The word is also used to refer to any heightened state of consciousness or intensely pleasant experience. It is also used more specifically to denote states of awareness of non-ordinary mental spaces, which may be perceived as spiritual (the latter type of ecstasy often takes the form of religious ecstasy).\n\nFrom a psychological perspective, ecstasy is a loss of self-control and sometimes a temporary loss of consciousness, which is often associated with religious mysticism, sexual intercourse and the use of certain drugs.\nFor the duration of the ecstasy the ecstatic is out of touch with ordinary life and is capable neither of communication with other people nor of undertaking normal actions. The experience can be brief in physical time, or it can go on for hours. Subjective perception of time, space or self may strongly change or disappear during ecstasy. For instance, if one is concentrating on a physical task, then any intellectual thoughts may cease. On the other hand, making a spirit journey in an ecstatic trance involves the cessation of voluntary bodily movement.\n\nEcstasy can be deliberately induced using religious or creative activities, meditation, music, dancing, breathing exercises, physical exercise, sexual intercourse or consumption of psychotropic drugs. The particular technique that an individual uses to induce ecstasy is usually also associated with that individual's particular religious and cultural traditions. Sometimes an ecstatic experience takes place due to occasional contact with something or somebody perceived as extremely beautiful or holy, or without any known reason. \"In some cases, a person might obtain an ecstatic experience 'by mistake'. Maybe the person unintentionally triggers one of the, probably many, physiological mechanisms through which such an experience can be reached. In such cases, it is not rare to find that the person later, by reading, looks for an interpretation and maybe finds it within a tradition.\"\n\nPeople interpret the experience afterward according to their culture and beliefs (as a revelation from God, a trip to the world of spirits or a psychotic episode). \"When a person is using an ecstasy technique, he usually does so within a tradition. When he reaches an experience, a traditional interpretation of it already exists.\" The experience together with its subsequent interpretation may strongly and permanently change the value system and the worldview of the subject (e.g. to cause religious conversion).\n\nIn 1925, James Leuba wrote: \"Among most uncivilized populations, as among civilized peoples, certain ecstatic conditions are regarded as divine possession or as union with the Divine. These states are induced by means of drugs, by physical excitement, or by psychical means. But, however produced and at whatever level of culture they may be found, they possess certain common features which suggest even to the superficial observer some profound connection. Always described as delightful beyond expression, these awesome ecstatic experiences end commonly in mental quiescence or even in total unconsciousness.\" He prepares his readers \"... to recognize a continuity of impulse, of purpose, of form and of result between the ecstatic intoxication of the savage and the absorption in God of the Christian mystic.\"\n\n\"In everyday language, the word 'ecstasy' denotes an intense, euphoric experience. For obvious reasons, it is rarely used in a scientific context; it is a concept that is extremely hard to define.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13930401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13930401", "title": "Embroidered patch", "text": "Embroidered patch\n\nAn embroidered patch, also known as a cloth badge, is a piece of embroidery which is created by using a fabric backing and thread. The art of making embroidered patches is an old tradition and was originally done by hand. High-speed, computerized machines have led to mass production.\n\nThere are various methods of affixing them to the fabric surface. Embroidered patches can be attached with a pin, sewn on, or affixed with more modern methods such as iron-on, dryer heat-activated adhesive, and Velcro backing.\n\nEmbroidered patches—an important identification tool for military and other uniformed personnel—trace their roots thousands of years ago to ancient cultures of the Mediterranean, Mideast, China, India and South America, where the art of decorating fabric with thread stitching originated. Elaborate hand-stitched designs and patterns were used to embellish the robes of royalty and for religious artifacts.\n\nToday, embroidered patches are used by government organisations (including uniforms of military forces, emergency services and other specialised workers), sports teams and companies in the private sector to denote rank, job, specific position or specialised unit. Youth groups, including sports teams, scouting organizations and specialized clubs, often wear clothing emblazoned with embroidered patches. They are also used by space agencies on the uniforms of astronauts to denote the mission. Patches are collected by enthusiasts as well.\n\nAs with other forms of heraldry, the colours and images in military patches are chosen to symbolically convey different positive traits and values.\n\nEmbroidered patches were first adopted by United States military units, with some crude, unofficial examples found on soldiers’ uniforms from the War of 1812, 1845 Mexican War, and the Civil War (1861–65) Unit identifications, also known as shoulder sleeve insignia (or SSI) is a relatively new component of the modern military uniform after originating during World War I, when Gen. John J. Pershing authorized limited use.\n\nThe oldest of all official U.S. military patches is the Big Red One of the 1st Infantry Division, first issued on October 31, 1918. SSI became common during World War II and distinctive patches for individual units of the US Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard have become a proud tradition. There is an active collectors market, especially for rare, limited edition patches.\n\nVarious regulations exist on how badges are displayed, how many may be worn at one time and whether or not such badges may be worn on the uniform of more than one branch of service. In the U.S. Army, the SSI is worn on the upper left arm, just below the uniform’s shoulder seam. It is sometimes worn on other places, most notably when soldiers’ body armor covers their shoulders.\n\nFor the U.S. military, patch designs are certified and protected by the Institute of Heraldry. The institute decides how military patches are displayed, how it is worn, and the reasons for display. A hallmark is assigned to each certified manufacturer of military insignia to indicate which manufacturer produced the product. It is illegal for other manufacturers to create designs on their patches that incorporate the likeness of an official Army heraldic item.\n\nThe embroidered patch industry is dominated by several long established companies such as the Chicago Embroidery Company (founded in 1890), Lion Brothers (founded in 1899), St. Louis Embroidery (founded in 1887), A-B Emblem, and Penn Emblem (founded in 1947). As with much of the textile manufacturing industry in the United States, manufacturing of emblems has largely moved out of the country, though some manufacturers still maintain domestic factories.\n\nBefore the advent of computer technology, patches were made by hand. The general process, however, remains the same today. First, a fabric backing is cut to shape. To prevent fraying, the edges of the backing are heat-sealed. Then, the thread is stitched into place. Some designs incorporate the backing as the background of the patch, while others completely cover the backing with stitches. To finish the patch, iron-on adhesive may be applied to the reverse—a step that was not originally done.\n\nMachinery created during the 18th- and 19th-century Industrial Revolution changed garment production with technology such as power looms and sewing machines, making fabrics of more uniform quality and greatly increased production efficiency. Embroidery—once a time-consuming hand-made stitch-by-stitch process—was revolutionized by the introduction of the Schiffli embroidery machine, invented by Isaak Groebli of Switzerland in 1863. Like the game-changing sewing machine, it operated with a two-thread system. Early production from the multi-needle machine, powered by a hand-turned crank, wasn’t much quicker than handwork, but significantly, multiple copies of identical designs could be created. Groebli's machine utilized the combination of a continuously threaded needle and shuttle containing a bobbin of thread. The shuttle itself looked similar to the hull of a sailboat. \"Schiffli\" means \"little boat\" in the Swiss dialect of the German language, so his machine came to be known as a schiffli machine. An automatic machine, refined by Isaak’s eldest son in 1898, simplified the mechanical system so it could be run by a single operator.\n\nTypes of stitches—including chain stitch, buttonhole or blanket stitch, running stitch, satin stitch, and cross stitch— are the basis of embroidery. Patches are often crafted from chain, satin, and hemming stitches and machine work relies on the use of multiple threads.\n\nAdvanced technology allows virtually any design to be recreated in thread on an embroidered patch. Images previously created by hand in a time-consuming process can now be quickly, digitally scanned, and computer-controlled, with multi-head sewing machines use several colors of thread simultaneously.\n\nOther modern advancements include applying a plastic backing to the patch, improving stiffness, and preventing bunching or wrinkling of the design. Patches are often die-cut into specific shapes with a border protected from unraveling by serge stitching. Polyester blend threads are colorfast and have superior durability as compared to cotton thread.\n\nModern alternatives to embroidered patches include PVC (polyvinyl chloride) patches and woven labels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2384061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384061", "title": "Engineering cybernetics", "text": "Engineering cybernetics\n\nEngineering cybernetics or technical cybernetics, established by H.S. Tsien, is a field of cybernetics, which deals with the question of control engineering of mechatronic systems as well as chemical or biological systems. It is used to control and predict the behaviour of such a system; see control theory.\n\nAn example of engineering cybernetics is a device designed in the mid-1960s by General Electric Company. Referred to as a CAM (cybernetic anthropomorphous machine), this machine was designed for use by the US Army ground troops. Operated by one man in a \"cockpit\" at the front end, the machine's \"legs\" steps were duplicates of the leg movements of the harnessed operator.\n\n"}
{"id": "40362569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40362569", "title": "Ethnic nationalism", "text": "Ethnic nationalism\n\nEthnic nationalism, also known as ethno-nationalism, is a form of nationalism wherein the nation is defined in terms of ethnicity.\n\nThe central theme of ethnic nationalists is that \"nations are defined by a shared heritage, which usually includes a common language, a common faith, and a common ethnic ancestry\". It also includes ideas of a culture shared between members of the group, and with their ancestors. \n\nWhile some types of ethnic nationalism are firmly routed in the idea of ethnicity (or race) as an immutable inherited characteristic (for example white nationalism), often ethnic nationalism also manifests in the assimilation of minority ethnic groups into the dominant group (for example as with Italianisation). This assimilation may or may not be predicated in a belief in some common ancestry with assimilated groups (for example with Germanisation in the Second World war).\n\nWhile in some cases the division between ethnic and civic nationalism is clear (France being the archetypal example of a national identity routed in civic and linguistic nationalism), in other cases the division is less clear, for example with Turkish nationalism.\n\nHerodotus is the first who stated the main characteristics of ethnicity, with his famous account of what defines Greek identity. He lists kinship (Greek: ομόαιμον, \"homόaimon\", \"of the same blood\"), language (Greek: ὁμόγλωσσον, \"homoglōsson\", \"speaking the same language\"), cults and customs (Greek: ὁμότροπον, \"homόtropon\", \"of the same habits or life\").\n\nThe central political tenet of ethnic nationalism is that ethnic groups can be identified unambiguously, and that each such group is entitled to self-determination.\n\nThe outcome of this right to self-determination may vary, from calls for self-regulated administrative bodies within an already-established society, to an autonomous entity separate from that society, to a sovereign state removed from that society. In international relations, it also leads to policies and movements for irredentism to claim a common nation based upon ethnicity.\n\nIn scholarly literature, ethnic nationalism is usually contrasted with civic nationalism. Ethnic nationalism bases membership of the nation on descent or heredity, often articulated in terms of common blood or kinship, rather than on political membership. Hence, nation-states with strong traditions of ethnic nationalism tend to define nationality or citizenship by \"jus sanguinis\" (the law of blood, descent from a person of that nationality), and countries with strong traditions of civic nationalism tend to define nationality or citizenship by \"jus soli\" (the law of soil, birth within the nation state). Ethnic nationalism is, therefore, seen as exclusive, while civic nationalism tends to be inclusive. Rather than allegiance to common civic ideals and cultural traditions, then, ethnic nationalism tends to emphasise narratives of common descent.\n\nThe theorist Anthony D. Smith uses the term \"ethnic nationalism\" for non-Western concepts of nationalism as opposed to Western views of a nation defined by its geographical territory. Diaspora studies scholars extend this non-geographically bound concept of \"nation\" among diasporic communities, at times using the term ethnonation or ethnonationalism to describe a conceptual collective of dispersed ethnics.\n\nEthnic nationalism is also present in many states' immigration policies in the form of repatriation laws. States such as Armenia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Romania, Russia, Serbia, and Turkey provide automatic or rapid citizenship to members of diasporas of their own dominant ethnic group, if desired. \n\nIn Malaysia, the Bumiputera principle recognises the \"special position\" of the Malays provided in the Constitution of Malaysia, in particular Article 153. However, the constitution does not use the term bumiputra; it defines only \"Malay\" and \"indigenous peoples\" (Article 160(2)), \"natives\" of Sarawak (161A(6)(a)), and \"natives\" of Sabah (Article 161A(6) (b)). Certain but not all pro-bumiputra policies exist as affirmative action for bumiputras, for NEP is racial-based and not deprivation-based. For instance, all Bumiputra, regardless of their financial standing, are entitled 7 percent discount on houses or property, including luxurious units; whilst a low-income non-Bumiputra receives no such financial assistance. Other preferential policies include quotas for the following: admission to government educational institutions, qualification for public scholarships, marking of universities exam papers, special bumiputras-only classes prior to university's end of term exams, for positions in government, and ownership of businesses. Most of the policies were established in the Malaysian New Economic Policy (NEP) period. Many policies focus on trying to achieve a bumiputra share of corporate equity, comprising at least 30% of the total. Ismail Abdul Rahman proposed this target after the government was unable to agree on a suitable policy goal.\n\nIn German nationality law, citizenship is open to ethnic Germans. According to the Greek nationality law, Greeks born abroad may transmit citizenship to their children from generation to generation indefinitely. this is also true in the case of the Philippine nationality law which, has conferred Philippine citizenship on children born after 15 October 1986, with at least one Philippine citizen parent.\n\nOn the other hand, civic nationalism defines membership as an individual's duty to observe given laws and in turn receive legal privileges.\n\nA nation-state for the ethnic group derives political legitimacy from its status as homeland of that ethnic group, from its protective function against colonization, persecution, or racism, and from its claim to facilitate the shared cultural and social life, which may not have been possible under the ethnic group's previous status as an ethnic minority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27848296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27848296", "title": "European hazard symbols", "text": "European hazard symbols\n\nEuropean hazard symbols for chemicals are pictograms defined by the European Union for labelling chemical packaging (for storage and workplace) and containers (for transportation). They are standardised currently by the CLP/GHS classification.\n\n\nThe hazard symbols for chemicals were defined in Annex II of Directive 67/548/EEC. A consolidated list with translations into other EU languages was found in Directive 2001/59/EC (See the links section).\nThe 'n' in Harmful (Xn) stands for the French word \"nocif\" (harmful) and the Italian word \"nocivo\" (noxious).\n\n"}
{"id": "441739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441739", "title": "Flag of Monaco", "text": "Flag of Monaco\n\nThe national flag of Monaco () has two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white, both of which have been the heraldic colors of the House of Grimaldi since at least 1339. The present bicolor design was adopted on April 4, 1881, under Prince Charles III.\n\nMonaco's original flag, which was similar to its current state flag but bore an older version of its coat of arms, was in use from the principality's early days (except during its annexation to France from 1793 to 1814) until the present, simpler design was adopted in 1881.\n\nAnother design (below), the banner of the state arms (lozenges in the Grimaldi family colors, in heraldic terms \"lozengy argent and gules\"), was used at various times, particularly in the 17th century, as an unofficial flag, and still . However, it has no designated use, and does not represent any Monegasque official in particular.\n\nThe flag of Monaco is graphically identical to the flag of Indonesia, with a slight difference only in its dimension ratio. The Flag of Poland has similar dimensions but has the colors reversed: white on top and red on the bottom. \n\nMonaco's state flag, which consists of the full achievement of the coat of arms on a white background with a red line, is flown at government offices, the Prince's palace, in the presence of government officials, and as an ensign on the Prince's yacht.\n\nThe princely standard, which consisted of the Crown of Monaco over two opposing letters A on a white background, is the personal flag of Prince Albert II, and is only used in his immediate presence, particularly on cars in which he travels. It is often seen with a gold fringe on the top, bottom, and right, which is one-ninth the height of the white field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28144485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28144485", "title": "Folklore Institute", "text": "Folklore Institute\n\nFolklore Institute refers to the folklore studies program of Indiana University Bloomington (USA). The Folklore Institute, together with the Ethnomusicology Institute, constitute the larger Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology. The Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology is a unit of the College of Arts and Sciences.\n\nPrior to the establishment (ca. 2000) of the parallel Ethnomusicology Institute and the renaming of the paired units as The Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, the name \"Folklore Institute\" served as the overarching designation for what was already a full-fledged academic department. This unit had roots going back to the 1940s and was fully established by the 1960s. After the name change to Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, the designation Folklore Institute referred to the department's folklore faculty, the folklore graduate students that they supervised, and the folklore studies-specific teaching, research, and outreach projects that the department's folklorists pursued. Many generations of professional folklorists (and some ethnomusicologists) earned their degrees (B.A., M.A., and/or Ph.D.) from the unit when it was known as the Folklore Institute and in informal discourse the name remains synonymous with the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology.\n\nThe present faculty of the Folklore Institute consists of Diane Goldstein, Jason Baird Jackson, Jon Kay, John H. McDowell, Gregory A. Schrempp, and Pravina Shukla.\n\nProminent scholars in the history of the Folklore Institute include the following distinguished rank faculty: Stith Thompson, Richard M. Dorson, Linda Dégh, Henry Glassie, Richard Bauman, Beverly J. Stoeltje, and Hasan M. El-Shamy.\n\nOver its history, the Folklore Institute has trained very large number of professional folklorists. A small sample of its prominent alumni includes: Alan Dundes, Michael Owen Jones, Dov Noy, Bill Ivy, Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett, Sabina Magliocco, Regina Bendix, Ronald L. Baker, Simon J. Bronner, Jan Harold Brunvand, Dan Ben-Amos, and Edward D. Ives.\n\nLike the Ethnomusicology Institute, the Folklore Institute is led by a Director. One of these two Directors typically also serves as Chair of the Department as a whole. Among the long term projects of the Folklore Institute are Traditional Arts Indiana (a statewide public folklore agency) and the \"Journal of Folklore Research\". The Folklore Institute has long organized focused conferences in folklore studies and neighboring fields. Some of these were later published by the institute or in partnership with other publishers.\n\n"}
{"id": "57301008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57301008", "title": "FotoFilm Tijuana", "text": "FotoFilm Tijuana\n\nFotoFilm Tijuana is a festival that takes place annually in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. It is a photography and film festival and had over 22,000 attendees in 2017. Held in July at the Tijuana Cultural Center, the event is a showcase for Mexican and international filmmakers, photographers and performers. The festival comprises competitive sections for short films, and includes feature films and documentary films. \n\nThe first edition was held in 2017, and included the films \"William: El Nuevo Maestro del Judo\", \"La Habitación\", and \"Heroyna\" in the main selection. The second edition took place on July 27–31, 2018 at the Tijuana Cultural Center, and included 14 feature films, 12 short films, and a contest for new directors through FilmFreeway, which resulted in six finalists and a winner for the Best of Show award.\n\nMexican photographer Julio Rodríguez created FotoFilm Tijuana after noticing the rise of audiovisual recordings with smartphones and tablet computers. As part of daily life, recording videos and taking photographs, \"is within everyone's reach\", Rodríguez said to Mexican newspaper \"Milenio\". He also noted that users are creating simple and free content and this creative facility creates the bases of interest in the public for this kind of events. Using as a reference renowned Mexican film festivals held at Morelia and Guadalajara, and with the intention to expand the exhibition time of Mexican films in theaters, the festival was located in the Tijuana Cultural Center's movie theater. At a press conference held on June 28, 2017, FotoFilm Tijuana was presented as a \"platform for exhibition, exchange, learning and promotion of photography and cinema\", and the main program included conferences, master classes, panel discussions, workshops, feature and short film exhibitions. The festival also featured work from Mexican filmmakers, bands and performers based in Baja California and a photo contest. Regarding the festival, the Municipal President of Tijuana Juan Manuel Gastélum, commented that \"art and culture are necessary elements in education and human development\" and that the event is \"a great opportunity to present the work of local artists\". The first edition of FotoFilm Tijuana was held from July 14–17, 2017, and according to Rodríguez had 30 different activities, 41 speakers, 180 featured artists, and 22,000 attendees.\n\nIn 2017, FotoFilm Tijuana was held at the Tijuana Cultural Center from July 14–17. The film \"William: El Nuevo Maestro del Judo\", directed by Omar Guzmán and Ricardo Silva; the anthology film \"La Habitación\", directed by Carlos Carrera, Daniel Giménez Cacho, Carlos Bolado, Ernesto Contreras, Iván Ávila Dueñas, Alfonso Pineda Ulloa, Alejandro Valle, and Natalia Beristáin; and \"Heroyna\", directed by Alejandro Solórzano, were included in the main program. A selection of short films entitled \"Desde el Norte\" (\"From the North\") included \"Microcastillo\" by Alejandra Villalba García, \"Al Otro Lado\" by Rodrigo Álvarez Flores, \"Leche\" by Gilberto González Penilla, and \"Hambre\" by Alejandro Montalvo, with the latter winning the Audience Award. Mexican actor Noé Hernández, screenwriter María Diego, photographers Rogelio Cuellar, Brandon Echeverrys, Dolores Medel, and Greg Smith, were among the speakers featured.\n\nThe second edition of FotoFilm Tijuana, was also held at the Tijuana Cultural Center from July 27–31, 2018. The short film selection was divided into animated, documentary, fiction and music video fields; and as an incentive for filmmakers from the Mexican states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Chihuahua, Durango, Sinaloa, and Sonora also could be included in the \"Desde el Norte\" section. For the first time all entries entered through the website Film Freeway and a prize equivalent to USD1,000 was awarded to the \"Best of Show\". Also, for the official selection, 14 films were featured, including \"Avenida Bugambilia\", by Paulina Casmur; \"Ayer Maravilla Fui\" by Gabriel Mariño; \"Ayúdame a Pasar la Noche\", by José Ramón Chávez Delgado; \"Cría Puercos\" by Ehécatl Garage; \"El Vigilante\" by Diego Ros; \"Etiqueta No Rigurosa\" by Cristina Herrera Bórquez; \"Juan y Vanesa\" by Ianis Guerrero; \"Los Adioses\" by Natalia Beristáin; \"Los Años Azules\" by Sofía Gómez Córdova; \"Mente Revolver\" by Alejandro Ramírez Corona; the antology film \"México Bárbaro II\", directed by Abraham Sánchez, Carlos Meléndez, Christian Cueva, Diego Cohen, Fernando Urdapilleta, Lex Ortega, Michelle Garza, Ricardo Farías, and Sergio Tello; \"Piérdete Entre los Muertos\" by Rubén Gutiérrez; \"Sueño en Otro Idioma\" by Ernesto Contreras; and \"Todos Los Viernes Son Santos\" by Héctor Villanueva. Also, a selection of 12 short films produced by the Mexican Institute of Cinematography (IMCINE) and the Centro de Capacitación Cinematográfica (CCC), were included.\n"}
{"id": "7541880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7541880", "title": "Humboldt Prize", "text": "Humboldt Prize\n\nThe Humboldt Prize, also known as the Humboldt Research Award, is an award given by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation of Germany to internationally renowned scientists and scholars who work outside of Germany. The prize is currently valued at €60,000 with the possibility of further support during the prize winner's life. Up to one hundred such awards are granted each year. Nominations must be submitted by established academics in Germany.\n\nThe award is named after the late Prussian naturalist and explorer Alexander von Humboldt.\n\nGünter Blobel,\nSerge Daan,\nDaniel Gianola,\nHendrikus Granzier,\nDan Graur,\nBert Hölldobler,\nSergej Nedospasov,\nHans Othmer,\nJohn M. Opitz,\nBurkhard Rost (2009),\nThomas Dyer Seeley,\nGünter P. Wagner,\nRüdiger Wehner,\nEckard Wimmer.\n\nAnthony J. Arduengo III,\nPaul Josef Crutzen,\nRobert F. Curl,\nJohn Bennett Fenn,\nWalter Gilbert,\nRobert H. Grubbs,\nNarayan Hosmane,\nJean-Marie Lehn,\nYuri Lvov,\nRudolph Marcus,\nJames Cullen Martin,\nDebashis Mukherjee,\nKenji Ohmori,\nGeoffrey Ozin,\nJohn Anthony Pople,\nRonald T. Raines,\nRoger Reed \nJulius Rebek,\nRichard R. Schrock,\nSason Shaik,\nPeter Schwerdtfeger,\nOktay Sinanoğlu,\nYoshitaka Tanimura,\nMatthias Tschöp,\nThomas Zemb,\nAhmed H. Zewail.\n\nManindra Agrawal,\nPatrick Cousot (2008),\nKen Forbus,\nMichael Fellows,\nJohannes Gehrke,\nLeonid Levin,\nToby Walsh.\n\nGérard Debreu,\nFrancis X. Diebold,\nJean-Michel Grandmont,\nRonald Shephard,\nHal Varian.\n\nAndrew Jenike,\nMohamed Gad-el-Hak\nLanny D. Schmidt\n\nHarry Liebersohn, Charles S. Maier, James J. Sheehan\n\nMatthew S. Dryer,\nJaklin Kornfilt,\nPaul Kiparsky\n\nTimothy M. Devinney\n\nDmitri Anosov,\nPaul Balmer,\nOle Barndorff-Nielsen,\nSpencer J. Bloch,\nAlexandre Eremenko,\nDima Grigoriev,\nVictor Guillemin,\nUffe Haagerup,\nHarald Andrés Helfgott (2015),\nToshiyuki Kobayashi,\nRobert Langlands,\nRoberto Longo,\nBenoît Mandelbrot,\nArnold Mandell,\nGrigory Margulis,\nVladimir Maz'ya,\nTrevor McDougall,\nCurtis T. McMullen,\nAlexander Merkurjev,\nJohn Milnor,\nTeimuraz Pirashvili,\nGopal Prasad,\nSvetlozar Rachev,\nShayle R. Searle,\nElias M. Stein,\nAnatoly Vershik,\nErnest Borisovich Vinberg,\nRaymond O. Wells, Jr.,\nShing-Tung Yau,\nMarc Yor,\nAndrei Zelevinsky.\n\nFritz Albert Lipmann,\nStanley B. Prusiner\n\nEvgeni Fedorovich\n\nSteven G. Rogelberg\n\nColin Allen,\nMichael Friedman,\nPanagiotis Kondylis,\nStephan Hartmann (2013),\nHannes Leitgeb (2011),\nJeff Malpas,\nJohn Perry,\nR. Jay Wallace.\n\nGirish Agarwal,\nRiccardo Barbieri,\nWolfgang Bauer,\nNihat Berker,\nNicolaas Bloembergen,\nRobert W. Boyd,\nVictor A. Brumberg (1993),\nAli Chamseddine,\nSubrahmanyan Chandrasekhar,\nSteven Chu,\nPredrag Cvitanović,\nDonald D. Clayton,\nHans Dehmelt,\nDurmus A. Demir,\nTomasz Dietl,\nAlexei L. Efros,\nYuri Estrin (1999, 2012),\nPierre-Gilles de Gennes,\nRoy J. Glauber,\nChris Greene,\nYuval Grossman,\nWilly Haeberli (1982, 1991),\nJohn L. Hall,\nTheodor W. Hänsch,\nRobert Hofstadter,\nJohn W. Harris,\nKyozi Kawasaki,\nJihn E. Kim,\nDmitri Kharzeev,\nMasatoshi Koshiba,\nDirk Kreimer (2011),\nHerbert Kroemer,\nJay H. Lieske (1980),\nRodney Loudon (1998),\nAndreas Mandelis,\nM. Brian Maple,\nJagdish Mehra,\nCurt Michel,\nRabindra Mohapatra,\nPran Nath,\nHolger Bech Nielsen,\nHirosi Ooguri,\nValery Pokrovsky,\nAlfred Saupe,\nArthur L. Schawlow,\nJulian Schwinger,\nClifford G. Shull,\nCostas Soukoulis,\nSauro Succi,\nChing W. Tang,\nAnthony William Thomas,\nJosé W. F. Valle,\nGary A. Wegner,\nGary Westfall,\nPaul Wiegmann,\nMaw-Kuen Wu,\nM. Suhail Zubairy,\nVictor I. Klimov,\nand\nGia Dvali\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25834175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25834175", "title": "Indocentrism", "text": "Indocentrism\n\nIndocentrism is any ethnocentric perspective that regards India to be central or unique relative to other countries and holds that the \"host\" culture i.e. of India, is superior to others. \n\nAccording to Indologist Michael Witzel, there is a recent tendency of indigenously minded revision and rewriting of India's history and archeology in scholarly publications, media, the Internet and government publications. This Indocentric rewriting includes claims that the first human civilization in the world formed in India in c. 10,000 BC, that there is an uninterrupted continuity of the Indian civilization from 7500 BC to present, and that Indo-European speaking Europe was populated by the immigrant people from the Indo-Gangetic Plain.\n\n"}
{"id": "29866490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29866490", "title": "Inga people", "text": "Inga people\n\nThe Inga people are an indigenous ethnic group from the Southwest region of Colombia with a historical relation to the Incas.\n\nThey speak a dialect of Quechua known as Inga Kichwa. Almost all Inga people are bilingual in Inga and Spanish, which has caused fear that the Inga language might be an endangered language.\n\nMany today live traditionally in Sibundoy Valley.\n\nFrancisco Tandioy Jansasoy is currently involved in the creation of an Inga–Spanish–English dictionary and accompanying pedagogic tri-lingual material for its use in universities and in the Inga-speaking communities of Colombia. There has been significant linguistic and anthropological work done in the past 30 years pertaining to the Inga peoples.\n"}
{"id": "53470503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53470503", "title": "Intercultural Universities in Mexico", "text": "Intercultural Universities in Mexico\n\nIntercultural Universities in Mexico are higher education institutions which were established in 2004 in response to the lack of enrollment of the indigenous population in Mexico. While an estimated 10% of the population of Mexico is indigenous, it is the least represented in higher education. According to estimates, only between 1% and 3% of higher education enrollment in Mexico is indigenous. In response to this inequality, the General Coordination for Intercultural and Bilingual Education at the Ministry of Education established Intercultural Universities with the active participation of indigenous organizations and academic institutions in each region. These institutions are located in densely indigenous areas and, though they allow for diversity in enrollment, they are especially intended for the indigenous population. Founded on the principle of intercultural education, they aim to foster dialogue between different cultures and represent a way of responding to both the historical and more recent demands of indigenous peoples.\n\nIn congruence with the recognition of diversity, Intercultural Universities do not propose a fixed approach to their educational activities. While assuring the respect of some basic principles, each university defines its curriculum according to the needs and potentials of the region in which it is located. Students are engaged in activities that relate them to the surrounding communities through research and development projects, with the aim of working and contributing to the development of their territory, their people and their culture. Twelve Intercultural Universities are currently operating with a total enrollment of approximately 7,000 students and a high proportion of female students. Despite the challenges of financing, of students' living conditions and of political vulnerability that these universities face, they represent an important contribution to the achievement of educational equity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1386213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1386213", "title": "Japa", "text": "Japa\n\nJapa () is the meditative repetition of a mantra or a divine name. It is a practice found in Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism and Sikhism.\n\nThe mantra or name may be spoken softly, enough for the practitioner to hear it, or it may be spoken within the reciter's mind. \"Japa\" may be performed while sitting in a meditation posture, while performing other activities, or as part of formal worship in group settings.\n\nThe Sanskrit word japa is derived from the root \"jap-\", meaning \"to utter in a low voice, repeat internally, mutter\". It can be further definated as ja to destroy birth, death, and reincarnation and pa meaning to destroy ones sins.\n\nMonier-Williams states that the term appears in Vedic literature such as in the Aitereya Brahmana (Rigveda) and the Shatapatha Brahmana (Yajurveda). The term means muttering, whispering or murmuring passages from the scripture, or charms, or names of deity. Often it is the repetitive singing of a verse or mantra, sometimes counted with the help of a rosary which is called \"Japa-mala\". A related word, \"Japana\" appears in Book 12 of the Mahabharata, where muttering prayers is described as a form of religious offering.\n\nThe concept of Japa is also found in early Buddhist texts, and is very common in Tibetan Buddhism literature.\n\nAccording to Sage Patanjali (400 CE), \"Japa\" is not the repitation of word or phase but rather contemplation on the meaning of the mantra, this definition sometimes persists across different sources.\n\nOne method of Japa is mental repetition of a mantra (or \"mantram\"), such as a method recommended by Eknath Easwaran.\n\nIn some forms of \"japa\", the repetitions are counted using a string of beads known as a japa mala. Many different types of materials are used for japa. The number of beads in the japa mala is generally 108. It is not uncommon for people to wear japa beads around their neck, although some practitioners prefer to carry them in a bead-bag in order to keep them clean.\n\nTibetan Buddhists include \"japa\" meditation as a large part of their religious practices. In Tibet, states Harvey Alper, the prayer wheels are instruments for \"japa\". The practice of nembutsu in Pure Land Buddhism is analogous to japa.\n\nSome Catholic prayer forms that involve repetition of prayers, such as use of the Rosary or one of various chaplets, are similar to, but not \"japa\", because the aim is different. Mental methods of repeated short prayers, very similar to \"japa\" are also used in Christian traditions, most notably the practice of repeating the Jesus Prayer found in the Eastern Orthodox Church. The practice of dhikr by Sufis is similar to japa.\n\nThe stated aim, or goal of \"japa\" may vary greatly depending on the mantra involved and the religious philosophy of the practitioner. In both Buddhist and Hindu traditions mantras may be given to aspirants by their guru, after some form of initiation. The stated goal could be moksha, nirvana, bhakti, or simple personal communion with a divine power in a similar way to prayer. Many gurus and other spiritual teachers, and other religious leaders, especially Hindu and Buddhist, teach that these represent different names for the same transformed state of consciousness. However, this claim is not made about mantras that are not intended for spiritual growth and self-realization.\n\nAfter long use of a mantra that is intended to foster self-realization or intimacy with a divine power, an individual may reach a state of ajapajapam. In ajapajapam, the mantra \"repeats itself\" in the mind. Similar states have been reached by adherents to other major faith traditions, using prayers from their own traditions.\n\nJapa is an important part of Sikh worship practices. The two main Sikh scriptures open with sections, named after the term, and these are called Japji Sahib and Jaap Sahib.\n\nPopular Japa mantras\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "1668437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1668437", "title": "Jehovah 1", "text": "Jehovah 1\n\nJehovah 1 or JHVH-1 (also known as \"Woden\", \"Ra\", etc.) is a God-like entity important in the mythology of the Church of the SubGenius, and the opposite number of the Satan-like entity NHGH.\n\nThis \"wrathful alien space god from some corporate sin galaxy\" is considered to be identical with the God of the Abrahamic and most other patriarchal religions. According to SubGenius dogma, \"JHVH-1\" contacted J. R. \"Bob\" Dobbs in 1953 through a television set of Dobbs' own construction. The many things told and shown to \"Bob\" during his \"Divine Emaculation\" were written down in the \"Prescriptures\", the most sacred texts of SubGenius tradition, excerpts of which were publicized in the \"Book of the SubGenius\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31568122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31568122", "title": "Kibbutz communal child rearing and collective education", "text": "Kibbutz communal child rearing and collective education\n\nCommunal child rearing was the method of education that prevailed in the collective communities in Israel (kibbutz; plural: kibbutzim), until about the end of the 1980s.\n\nCollective education started on the day of birth and went on until adulthood. At the time it was considered a natural outcome of the principle of equality, which was part and parcel of the kibbutz life. The education authority of the kibbutz was responsible for the rearing and well-being of all the children born on the kibbutz, taking care of their food, clothing, and medical treatment. Everybody received the same share of everything. Parents were not involved economically in the upbringing of their children.\n\nChildren's lives had three focal points: the children's house, parents' house, and the whole kibbutz. They lived in the children's house, where they had communal sleeping arrangements and visited their parents for 2–3 hours a day.\n\nNon-selectivity was a fundamental principle of collective education; every child got 12 years of study, they took no tests whatsoever, and no grades were recorded. The founders of the kibbutz actually aimed at creating \"the 'new man' of a utopian society.\"\n\nCollective education was carried out within the boundaries of three concentric circles: the children's house, the parents' house, and the kibbutz community.\n\nA group of children, all about the same age, shared a children's house and had a nanny who took care of their everyday needs. Each house had a dining hall, a classroom, bedrooms (3-4 children in each room), and a bathroom. Boys and girls took showers together during elementary school up to the sixth grade, and usually shared their bedrooms even until the end of high school.\n\nThis was the kibbutz children's house, where they learned, had their meals, took their showers, slept, and woke up in the morning. This was where they got their clean clothes and from there their dirty laundry was sent, all tied up in a big bundle, back to the collective laundry.\n\nEvery child had a towel on a hanger in the bathroom and a smaller hand towel near the sink, with a small cup for a toothbrush. Each one also had two closet shelves, one for the morning clothing and another for the afternoon clothing. The nanny was in charge of the daily routine at the children's house.\n\nThe kibbutz was a collective community, and so was its education system. The kibbutz authorities provided equally for all children born to its members and they shared everything equally. The provision of health and psychological care was according to specific needs. Kibbutz members who were considered the most educated and esteemed got the position of educators. The nanny position was always a woman's role. Teacher positions were both for women and men.\n\nThe family had no financial responsibility whatsoever; the kibbutz took care of its members' economic affairs. Kibbutz people believed that a woman's work outside of her house conflicted with her duties as a mother. In their eyes the kibbutz achieved women's social and economic liberation without hindering their role as mothers. This, so they claimed, was achieved by shifting the responsibility for education from the family to society at large.\n\nThe founders of the collective education believed that granting the children independence from their family liberated the family from the economic and social burden, which otherwise might distort the children's development. Family was neither the only nor the main focus in the children's education, since they had the educators and the whole kibbutz to support them. While the child's emotional needs were catered for by his or her family, the physical well-being, health care, and education as a whole were entrusted to the educators' expertise.\n\nFathers were supposed to bond with their children through quality time much more so than in a non-kibbutz environment, where they may be required to spend long hours at work.\n\nKibbutz people believed that as the necessary demands and requirements that are an essential part of every education process were eliminated from family life, the relationships between parents and their children got a chance to become much more moderate and harmonious. This, so they claimed, is how strong emotional ties with toddlers, friendship in childhood, and comradeship in youth facilitate strong family attachment and healthy influence of parents on their children.\n\nEducation organization was divided into stages:\n\n\nThe newborn baby was brought from the hospital directly to the babies' house. The mother would get a six-week parental leave, after which she gradually returned to work, though not before the baby was fully weaned. Every afternoon, the parents would take their baby home for about an hour. In the early years of the kibbutz, parents were not allowed to enter the babies' house freely, as it was considered best to keep the place clean and orderly and let the nanny do her work. As years went by, the attitude became more relaxed in this matter and parents were allowed to visit their offspring during the day, in order to spend time together and establish emotional bonding. In addition to taking care of the baby, it was the nanny's responsibility to support the mothers, especially the young and inexperienced ones.\n\nThe arrangement of the newborns' house, its equipment and playground, and the correct way of offering toys in the right stage, were all believed to create the proper stimuli and the environment that might best fit babies, in order to avert boredom and satisfy the toddlers' emotional needs.\n\nBabies were transferred to the toddlers' house by their second year. At that point each sextuplet had its own nanny and her job was to provide each one of the babies an outstanding personal rearing.\n\nAbout three sextuplets comprised a kindergarten group, with their pre-school teacher and nanny. This was regarded as the children's home, which provided intimacy and close relations with peers. This is where they achieved their first level of socialization. Instead of rivalry, aggressiveness, and hatred, they were supposed to get an opportunity for cooperation, mutual support, and compassion.\n\nThe group that was formed during the kindergarten years moved next together with their nanny to the children's society, where they would get a teacher as well. The children's society was composed of the age groups of children from the first or second grade to the sixth grade. Teachers were considered \"educators\", some of them women and some men. Nannies were always women.\n\nEveryone, children and adults, would call each other by their first names, and relationships were intentionally very familial and informal. The children would choose a name for their group by voting; afterward, they would frequently be referred to by their first name plus the group name, omitting their family name. More often than not, the teacher and nanny would stay with the same group of children up until the end of the sixth grade. Children grew up, studied, slept, and worked together in this wide-ranging educational frame, mostly within their intimate group, and sometimes in the wider children's society.\n\nAs they reached their seventh grade, the group progressed to the youth society, where they stayed until the end of twelfth grade. By this stage the teacher and nanny separated from this group, and the adolescents would get a new team of educators. Many kibbutzim would send their children to a regional school away from home. The teenagers would then live in the dormitories and travel to their kibbutz to meet with their parents only about twice a week. The children in these schools would have their own dining halls. Other kibbutzim maintained a local high school and had their children stay at home, eat in the kibbutz dining hall, and work with the kibbutz members.\n\nThe founding fathers of the collective education strongly believed that by this age the group held a major significance for its members. This was the place for them to clarify their personal and social concerns, and this way the group was believed to function as the best setting to educate the youngsters and mold their characters.\nThe youth society acted in a manner of directed independence and the student government was guided by the team of educators. At the students' general meeting, all matters concerning campus life were discussed and decided upon, except the school curriculum, security issues, and health matters.\n\nAll students were expected to work as the semi-professional curriculum was an essential part of school life.\n\nAlthough all children of the collective education had similar life conditions and even though public opinion was highly considered, educators were proud to stress the fact that individuality remained crystal clear; they were very much willing to support artistic creativity (writing, drawing, and music), journal writing, and reading of books.\n\nSocial applicability of learning was considered more important than knowledge per se. Putting forth an effort, moral behavior, and social involvement were seen as equivalent to academic achievements, and so was youth movement leadership.\n\nAny distinction between formal teaching and other forms of educating was non-existent, and both were under the guidance of the education team. Although collective education was non-selective and all children were entitled to the same learning circumstances, no demand was made to have equal achievements. Children- and youth-societies were considered \"living organisms made up of dissimilar persons, each needing its individual attention\".\n\nIn order to stay true to life as they understood it, the kibbutz education adopted an inter-disciplinary method of learning.\n\nIn elementary school, learning was based on children's everyday life: \"The Bee and the Flower\", \"The Ant\", \"Mail\", etc. One interdisciplinary subject would last for two to six weeks, according to age.\n\nThe high school curriculum was divided in two: Humanistic (literature, geography, society, and economics) and realistic (physics, chemistry, and biology). In addition, the curriculum included languages: Hebrew, English, and Arabic, mathematics, gymnastics, painting, music.\n\nThe youth society would gather once a year in order to conduct a literary mock trial. Everybody at school, including students and the education team, would read a book and then debate the dilemma it brought up, such as a controversial character. The school would create a court which had members from all the youth society groups: a defendant, judges, prosecutor, a defense, and witnesses. Judges and lawyers wore black robes and the rest of the participants were dressed up according to their characters. The mock-trial took place in front of the school general assembly.\n\nExamples for literary mock-trials were:\n\n\nWork was an essential building block of the collective education. Young children worked in their close surroundings, helped clean their home, took care of the school zoological garden, and tended their vegetable garden. High school students worked in the agricultural branches and industries the kibbutz owned. Many high school girls worked as nannies' aides at the younger children's houses.\n\nSkills such as weaving, sewing, knitting, metalwork, and carpentry were taught as an intermediary between work and study as a part of the curriculum, so it was possible for diligent students to become semi-professionals.\n\nThe similarity of and philosophy of procedures was maintained by the departments of education of the kibbutz movement. They supervised the activities at the schools, had teachers' guidance programs, provided consultation to families of children with specific needs, published, set budgets, and determined the standards.\n\nThe movement had a school for kibbutz education professional training where they also held a research center.\n\nThe kibbutzim evolved, and since the mid-1950s and much more so since the 1970s education was very much influenced by the changes. People on the kibbutzim wanted their children to live at home and not in the children's house, so communal sleeping arrangements were brought to an end.\n\nStandardization of teaching methods and the introduction of examinations to kibbutz schools did away with multi-disciplinary learning. Many of the young generation born on the kibbutz left for the big cities so the kibbutz population shrank and aged. Many kibbutzim went through a process of privatization. Higher education became prevalent, together with a decrease in the prominence of agriculture.\n\nAll these and other reasons caused the collectivism to deteriorate and individualism to win over. This put an end to collective education.\n\nTal, Ran (2007) \"Children of the Sun\", TA. Lama Prod. (70 min) IN HEBREW WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES\n\n"}
{"id": "40862982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40862982", "title": "List of immovable cultural property of Rožaje", "text": "List of immovable cultural property of Rožaje\n\nThis is a list of immovable cultural properties of Rožaje. The locations according to the numbers are given on the image on the right. \n\n"}
{"id": "83101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83101", "title": "Metamorphoses", "text": "Metamorphoses\n\nThe Metamorphoses (: \"Books of Transformations\") is a Latin narrative poem by the Roman poet Ovid, considered his \"magnum opus\". Comprising 11,995 lines, 15 books and over 250 myths, the poem chronicles the history of the world from its creation to the deification of Julius Caesar within a loose mythico-historical framework.\n\nAlthough meeting the criteria for an epic, the poem defies simple genre classification by its use of varying themes and tones. Ovid took inspiration from the genre of metamorphosis poetry, and some of the \"Metamorphoses\" derives from earlier treatment of the same myths; however, he diverged significantly from all of his models.\n\nOne of the most influential works in Western culture, the \"Metamorphoses\" has inspired such authors as Dante Alighieri, Giovanni Boccaccio, Geoffrey Chaucer, and William Shakespeare. Numerous episodes from the poem have been depicted in acclaimed works of sculpture, painting, and music. Although interest in Ovid faded after the Renaissance, there was a resurgence of attention to his work towards the end of the 20th century. Today the \"Metamorphoses\" continues to inspire and be retold through various media. The work has been the subject of numerous translations into English, the first by William Caxton in 1480.\n\nOvid's decision to make myth the dominant subject of the \"Metamorphoses\" was influenced by the predisposition of Alexandrian poetry. However, whereas it served in that tradition as the cause for moral reflection or insight, he made it instead the \"object of play and artful manipulation\". The model for a collection of metamorphosis myths derived from a pre-existing genre of metamorphosis poetry in the Hellenistic tradition, of which the earliest known example is Boio(s)' \"Ornithogonia\"—a now-fragmentary poem collecting myths about the metamorphoses of humans into birds.\n\nThere are three examples of \"Metamorphoses\" by later Hellenistic writers, but little is known of their contents. The \"Heteroioumena\" by Nicander of Colophon is better known, and clearly an influence on the poem—21 of the stories from this work were treated in the \"Metamorphoses\". However, in a way that was typical for writers of the period, Ovid diverged significantly from his models. The \"Metamorphoses\" was longer than any previous collection of metamorphosis myths (Nicander's work consisted of probably four or five books) and positioned itself within a historical framework.\n\nSome of the \"Metamorphoses\" derives from earlier literary and poetic treatment of the same myths. This material was of varying quality and comprehensiveness—while some of it was \"finely worked\", in other cases Ovid may have been working from limited material. In the case of an oft-used myth such as that of Io in Book I, which was the subject of literary adaptation as early as the 5th century BC, and as recently as a generation prior to his own, Ovid reorganises and innovates existing material in order to foreground his favoured topics and to embody the key themes of the \"Metamorphoses\".\n\nScholars have found it difficult to place the \"Metamorphoses\" in a genre. The poem has been considered as an epic or a type of epic (for example, an anti-epic or mock-epic); a \"Kollektivgedicht\" that pulls together a series of examples in miniature form, such as the epyllion; a sampling of one genre after another; or simply a narrative that refuses categorization.\n\nThe poem is generally considered to meet the criteria for an epic; it is considerably long, relating over 250 narratives across fifteen books; it is composed in dactylic hexameter, the meter of both the ancient \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and the more contemporary epic \"Aeneid\"; and it treats the high literary subject of myth. However, the poem \"handles the themes and employs the tone of virtually\nevery species of literature\", ranging from epic and elegy to tragedy and pastoral.\nCommenting on the genre debate, G. Karl Galinsky has opined that \"... it would be misguided to pin the label of any genre on the \"Metamorphoses\".\"\n\nThe \"Metamorphoses\" is comprehensive in its chronology, recounting the creation of the world to the death of Julius Caesar, which had occurred only a year before Ovid's birth; it has been compared to works of universal history, which became important in the 1st century BC. In spite of its apparently unbroken chronology, scholar Brooks Otis has identified four divisions in the narrative:\n\nOvid works his way through his subject matter, often in an apparently arbitrary fashion, by jumping from one transformation tale to another, sometimes retelling what had come to be seen as central events in the world of Greek mythology and sometimes straying in odd directions. It begins with the ritual \"invocation of the muse\", and makes use of traditional epithets and circumlocutions. But instead of following and extolling the deeds of a human hero, it leaps from story to story with little connection.\n\nThe recurring theme, as with nearly all of Ovid's work, is love—be it personal love or love personified in the figure of \"Amor\" (Cupid). Indeed, the other Roman gods are repeatedly perplexed, humiliated, and made ridiculous by Amor, an otherwise relatively minor god of the pantheon, who is the closest thing this putative mock-epic has to a hero. Apollo comes in for particular ridicule as Ovid shows how irrational love can confound the god out of reason. The work as a whole inverts the accepted order, elevating humans and human passions while making the gods and their desires and conquests objects of low humor.\n\nThe \"Metamorphoses\" ends with an epilogue (Book XV.871–9), one of only two surviving Latin epics to do so (the other being Statius' \"Thebaid\"). The ending acts as a declaration that everything except his poetry—even Rome—must give way to change:\n\n\nThe different genres and divisions in the narrative allow the \"Metamorphoses\" to display a wide range of themes. Scholar Stephen M. Wheeler notes that \"metamorphosis, mutability, love, violence, artistry, and power are just some of the unifying themes that critics have proposed over the years\".\n\nMetamorphosis or transformation is a unifying theme amongst the episodes of the \"Metamorphoses\". Ovid raises its significance explicitly in the opening lines of the poem: \"In nova fert animus mutatas dicere formas / corpora;\" (\"I intend to speak of forms changed into new entities;\"). Accompanying this theme is often violence, inflicted upon a victim whose transformation becomes part of the natural landscape. This theme amalgamates the much-explored opposition between the hunter and the hunted and the thematic tension between art and nature.\n\nThere is a huge variety among the types of transformations that take place: from human to inanimate object (Nileus), constellation (Ariadne's Crown), animal (Perdix); from animal (Ants) and fungus (Mushrooms) to human; of sex (Hyenas); and of colour (Pebbles). The metamorphoses themselves are often located metatextually within the poem, through grammatical or narratorial transformations. At other times, transformations are developed into humour or absurdity, such that, slowly, “the reader realizes he is being had”, or the very nature of transformation is questioned or subverted. This phenomenon is merely one aspect of Ovid's extensive use of illusion and disguise.\n\nThe \"Metamorphoses\" has exerted a considerable influence on literature and the arts, particularly of the West; scholar A. D. Melville says that \"It may be doubted whether any poem has had so great an influence on the literature and art of Western civilization as the \"Metamorphoses\".\" Although a majority of its stories do not originate with Ovid himself, but with such writers as Hesiod and Homer, for others the poem is their sole source.\n\nThe influence of the poem on the works of Geoffrey Chaucer is extensive. In \"The Canterbury Tales\", the story of Coronis and Phoebus Apollo (Book II 531–632) is adapted to form the basis for The Manciple's Tale. The story of Midas (Book XI 174–193) is referred to and appears—though much altered—in The Wife of Bath's Tale.\nThe story of Ceyx and Alcyone (from Book IX) is adapted by Chaucer in his poem \"The Book of the Duchess\", written to commemorate the death of Blanche, Duchess of Lancaster and wife of John of Gaunt.\n\nThe \"Metamorphoses\" was also a considerable influence on William Shakespeare. His \"Romeo and Juliet\" is influenced by the story of Pyramus and Thisbe (\"Metamorphoses\" Book IV); and, in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", a band of amateur actors performs a play about Pyramus and Thisbe. Shakespeare's early erotic poem \"Venus and Adonis\" expands on the myth in Book X of the \"Metamorphoses\". In \"Titus Andronicus\", the story of Lavinia's rape is drawn from Tereus' rape of Philomela, and the text of the \"Metamorphoses\" is used within the play to enable Titus to interpret his daughter's story. Most of Prospero's renunciative speech in Act V of \"The Tempest\" is taken word-for-word from a speech by Medea in Book VII of the \"Metamorphoses\". Among other English writers for whom the \"Metamorphoses\" was an inspiration are John Milton—who made use of it in \"Paradise Lost\", considered his \"magnum opus\", and evidently knew it well—and Edmund Spenser. In Europe, the poem was an influence on Giovanni Boccaccio (the story of Pyramus and Thisbe appears in his poem \"L'Amorosa Fiammetta\") and Dante.\n\nDuring the Renaissance and Baroque periods, mythological subjects were frequently depicted in art. The \"Metamorphoses\" was the greatest source of these narratives, such that the term \"Ovidian\" in this context is synonymous for mythological, in spite of some frequently represented myths not being found in the work. Many of the stories from the \"Metamorphoses\" have been the subject of paintings and sculptures, particularly during this period. Some of the most well-known paintings by Titian depict scenes from the poem, including \"Diana and Callisto\", \"Diana and Actaeon\", and \"Death of Actaeon\". Other famous works inspired by it include Pieter Brueghel's painting \"Landscape with the Fall of Icarus\" and Gian Lorenzo Bernini's sculpture \"Apollo and Daphne\". The \"Metamorphoses\" also permeated the theory of art during the Renaissance and the Baroque style, with its idea of transformation and the relation of the myths of Pygmalion and Narcissus to the role of the artist.\n\nThough Ovid was popular for many centuries, interest in his work began to wane after the Renaissance, and his influence on 19th-century writers was minimal. Towards the end of the 20th century his work began to be appreciated once more. Ted Hughes collected together and retold twenty-four passages from the \"Metamorphoses\" in his \"Tales from Ovid\", published in 1997. In 1998, Mary Zimmerman's stage adaptation \"Metamorphoses\" premiered at the Lookingglass Theatre, and the following year there was an adaptation of \"Tales from Ovid\" by the Royal Shakespeare Company.. In the early 21st century, the poem continues to inspire and be retold through books, films, and plays.. A series of works inspired by Ovid’s book through the tragedy of Diana and Actaeon have been produced by French based collective LFKs and his film/theatre director, writer and visual artist Jean Michel Bruyere, including the interactive 360° audiovisual installation \"Si poteris narrare, licet\" (\"if you are able to speak of it, then you may do so\") in 2002, 600 shorts and \"medium\" film from which 22000 sequences have been used in the 3D 360° audiovisual installation \"La Dispersion du Fils\" from 2008 to 2016 as well as an outdoor performance, \"Une Brutalité pastorale\" (2000).\n\nIn spite of the \"Metamorphoses\" enduring popularity from its first publication (around the time of Ovid's exile in 8 AD) no manuscript survives from antiquity. From the 9th and 10th centuries there are only fragments of the poem; it is only from the 11th century onwards that manuscripts, of varying value, have been passed down.\n\nInfluential in the course of the poem's manuscript tradition is the 17th-century Dutch scholar Nikolaes Heinsius. During the years 1640–52, Heinsius collated more than a hundred manuscripts and was informed of many others through correspondence.\n\nBut the poem's immense popularity in antiquity and the Middle Ages belies the struggle for survival it faced in late antiquity. \"A dangerously pagan work,\" the \"Metamorphoses\" was preserved through the Roman period of Christianization, but was criticized by the voices of Augustine and Jerome, who believed the only metamorphosis really was the transubstantiation. Though the \"Metamorphoses\" did not suffer the ignominious fate of the \"Medea\", no ancient scholia on the poem survive (although they did exist in antiquity), and the earliest manuscript is very late, dating from the 11th century.\n\nThe poem retained its popularity throughout Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages, and is represented by an extremely high number of surviving manuscripts (more than 400); the earliest of these are three fragmentary copies containing portions of Books 1–3, dating to the 9th century.\n\nCollaborative editorial effort has been investigating the various manuscripts of the \"Metamorphoses\", some forty-five complete texts or substantial fragments, all deriving from a Gallic archetype. The result of several centuries of critical reading is that the poet's meaning is firmly established on the basis of the manuscript tradition or restored by conjecture where the tradition is deficient. There are two modern critical editions: William S. Anderson's, first published in 1977 in the Teubner series, and R. J. Tarrant's, published in 2004 by the Oxford Clarendon Press.\n\nThe full appearance of the \"Metamorphoses\" in English translation (sections had appeared in the works of Chaucer and Gower) coincides with the beginning of printing, and traces a path through the history of publishing. William Caxton produced the first translation of the text on 22 April 1480; set in prose, it is a literal rendering of a French translation known as the \"Ovide Moralisé\".\n\nIn 1567, Arthur Golding published a translation of the poem that would become highly influential, the version read by Shakespeare and Spenser. It was written in rhyming couplets of iambic heptameter. The next significant translation was by George Sandys, produced from 1621–6, which set the poem in heroic couplets, a metre that would subsequently become dominant in vernacular English epic and in English translations.\n\nIn 1717, a translation appeared from Samuel Garth bringing together work \"by the most eminent hands\": primarily John Dryden, but several stories by Joseph Addison, one by Alexander Pope, and contributions from Tate, Gay, Congreve, and Rowe, as well as those of eleven others including Garth himself. Translation of the \"Metamorphoses\" after this period was comparatively limited in its achievement; the Garth volume continued to be printed into the 1800s, and had \"no real rivals throughout the nineteenth century\".\n\nAround the later half of the 20th century a greater number of translations appeared as literary translation underwent a revival. This trend has continued into the twenty-first century. In 1994, a collection of translations and responses to the poem, entitled \"\", was produced by numerous contributors in emulation of the process of the Garth volume.\n\n\nLatin versions\n\nEnglish translations\n\nAnalysis\nAudio reading\nImages\n"}
{"id": "30700306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30700306", "title": "Music Technology Group", "text": "Music Technology Group\n\nThe Music Technology Group (MTG) is a research group of the Department of Information and Communication Technologies of the Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona. It was founded in 1994 by its current director, Xavier Serra, and it specializes in sound and music computing research.\n\nThe research of the MTG is quite close to the core of the Sound and Music Computing interdisciplinariety; combining strengths in basic disciplines, such as Signal Processing, Machine Learning and Human Computer Interaction while being able to apply other disciplines/technologies in order to approach music related application-driven problems. Current active topics include:\n\n\nThe MTG is very active in educational activities within the UPF and in collaboration with the ESMUC. Here is a list of the main academic degrees in which the researchers of the MTG are involved with\n\n\nApart from the standard academic results in the form of academic publications and teaching, one of the major aims of the MTG is to promote technology transfer. To that aim the MTG collaborates with companies like Yamaha or Microsoft Research to develop new technologies, it promotes artistic productions through the Phonos Project, it has created three spin-off companies to commercialize some of the developed technologies, BMAT, Reactable Systems, and Voctro Labs and it has developed and maintains technologies that are available online for anyone, like Freesound. Some of the developed technologies have had a big impact, like Vocaloid, Reactable or Freesound.\n\nOf the current research project being carried out at the MTG it is worth mentioning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30863731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863731", "title": "Nelvana of the Northern Lights", "text": "Nelvana of the Northern Lights\n\nNelvana of the Northern Lights is a Canadian comic book character and the first Canadian national superhero, debuting in Hillborough Studios' \"Triumph-Adventure Comics\" #1 (Aug. 1941). She is also one of the first female superheroes, debuting before Wonder Woman but after Fantomah, the Golden Age Black Widow, Invisible Scarlet O'Neil and others introduced in 1940. Nelvana of the Northern Lights is Canada’s first distinctly Canadian female superhero.\n\nOn October 5, 1995, Canada Post issued a stamp depicting her, as part of the \"Comic Book Superheroes\" series that also included Superman, Johnny Canuck, Captain Canuck and Fleur de Lys.\n\nA Kickstarter campaign to republish \"Nelvana of the Northern Lights\" for the first time since the original publication was launched in October 2013 by Hope Nicholson. It was fully funded within five days of being launched.\n\nThe character was created, written and illustrated by Adrian Dingle, who was inspired by tales brought back from the Arctic by Group of Seven painter Franz Johnston. Franz Johnston had met a young women, either Cecile Nelvana or Connie Nelvana in his stay in Coppermine, NWT (now Kugluktuk, Nunavut), and was taken by this 'arctic Madonna' to create a superheroine. Nelvana's superpowers included turning invisible and traveling at the speed of light along a ray of the Northern Lights. She visited lost kingdoms under the ice, journeyed to other dimensions and fought against the Axis Powers during World War II, eventually taking on the secret identity of secret agent Alana North.\n\nNelvana of Northern Lights, or Nelvana of the North for short, debuted in Triumph-Adventure Comics #1, published by Hillborough Studios in August 1941.\n\nAfter the seventh issue in February 1942, Dingle took \"Triumph-Adventure\" and Nelvana to Bell Features.\n\nHer final appearance was in May 1947, in Super-Duper Comics #3.\n\nIn 1971, Michael Hirsh & Patrick Loubert purchased the rights to Bell Features comic books from Commercial Signs of Canada, and today the rights are jointly held by Library & Archives Canada & Nelvana Animation.\n\nNelvana is a powerful Inuit mythological figure, protecting the people of the North with her superhuman abilities. She is the daughter of a mortal woman and Koliak the Mighty, King of the Northern Lights. The gods were outraged with Koliak and his marriage to a mortal woman, and therefore is no longer visible, although his spirit is manifested in the form of the Northern Lights. Nelvana draws on the powers of her father and the Northern Lights to fight super-powered Nazi agents in the North.\n\nDressed in a fur-trimmed mini-skirt, knee-high boots, matching gloves and adorned in a headband and magical cape, Nelvana’s superhuman powers include the ability to fly at the speed of light on a giant ray of the Northern Lights. She was also capable of calling on the powers of her father. She can melt metal and disrupt radio communications. Nelvana is telepathic and can turn invisible, as well as change her physical form.\n\nNelvana is often found fighting crime with her brother Tanero with the help from their father Koliak, King of the Northern Lights. Later she is joined by the mountie Corporal Keene. Tanero, though having similar powers as Nelvana, lived under a curse that forbade him from being seen by white men, and thus reverted to the form of a dog whenever they were present.\n\nAs Canada’s first distinctly Canadian female superhero, Nelvana of the North mitigated the lack of Canadian comic book heroes and affected Canadian national identity as a whole. Canadians finally had a hero to call their own in an American dominated comic book industry.\n\nNelvana Limited, a Canadian entertainment company founded in 1971, was named after Nelvana of the Northern Lights.\n\nIn Marvel Comics the Canadian superheroine Snowbird, member of Alpha Flight created by John Byrne, is a demi-goddess whose mother is \"Nelvanna of the Northern Lights\", daughter of Hodiak. Nelvanna and Hodiak were, very probably, intended by Byrne as homages to Nelvana and Koliak; although born in the UK, Byrne grew up in Canada.\n\nCalled upon to stop \"evil white ones\" (Kablunets) from using time bombs to destroy fish and other food stocks in the North, Nelvana and her brother Tanero are assisted by Koliak and use the Northern Lights as a gigantic magnet to magnetise the enemy bombs towards the sky by destroying them harmlessly. Commander Toroff, attacks Nelvana and her brother from his Devil Ship with killer boats. Nelvana and Tanero land on Toroff’s ship, and Nelvana instructs Tanero to destroy Toroff's fleet and killer boats. Meanwhile, Nelvana searches Toroff's quarters looking for his plans.\nNelvana comes across Toroff’s plans but is soon captures. Toroff then orders his men tie her up hanging above a gaping digestor pit. Sensing his daughter’s peril, Koliak informs Tanero and in turn rescues Nelvana. The Devil Ship is eventually destroyed along with the Kablunet fleet.\n\nKoliak informs Nelvana that Glacia, a lost world, is hidden beneath the Arctic ice, under the polestar. Nelvana, upon entering Glacia, learns that it is threatened by the giant Mammoth Men, who are controlled by Vultor, the wicked scientist who is intent on learning Glacia's secret of eternal life. While Nelvana is dealing with matters in Glacia, the Japanese launch an attach on the Alcan Highway where they drop \"swarms of savage, starved Manchurian wolves,\" but before they can kill the Alcan work crews, Nelvana, who is riding a polar bear, reappears and destroys the wolves.\n\nFelix Langdon has created a secret weapon ice beam with his brother Silas, and is eventually kidnapped. Koliak informs Nelvana to go south and obtain a new secret identity. Nelvana and Silas fly to Nortonville, Ontario together where they meet policeman, Sgt. Michael O'Donnelly who assists Nelvana to assume her new secret identity—Secret Agent, Alana North. Nelvana and Silas eventually discover the headquarters of One-Ear Brunner, an evil Nazi villain holding Felix hostage. Brunner captures Nelvana and Silas and demands the plans for the secret ice beam. Nelvana saves the day by defeating Bruner and rescuing Felix. The plans for the ice beam are final and it is used in Britain for a target attack to bring down Nazi robot bombs.\n\nNelvana discovers an imposter using her name to exploit Inuit trappers for furs. The imposter Sade, goes insane upon meeting the real Nelvana and kills herself.\n\nCorporal Keene is confronted by a little green man, an emissary from the ether world, Etheria (the void band surrounding the outer strata of the globe), who warns that Earth's radio broadcasts must stop, as they are driving the Etherians crazy. At first Keene doubts his own sanity but then realizes the encounter was for real and decides to find Nelvana, who, as Alana North, is in Ottawa. An Etherian confronts Nelvana and repeats the warning. Nelvana makes him disappear and then arranges for the construction of the largest radio loudspeaker ever built, which will serve as the entry point to Etheria for her and Keene.\n\nAfter entering the stratosphere, dealing with the Queen of Statica and the flame men, and witnessing the explosion of the Atom Bomb in New Mexico, Keene and Nelvana arrive in Etheria just as the invasion fleet prepares to attack. They are captured and are forced to accompany the invaders. Before arriving on the Earth, the invaders stop so that Nelvana can meet the invaders' real leader, who is Vultor. Vultor uses a magic stone to hypnotize Nelvana and then launches an attack on Glacia. Keene knocks the stone out of Vultor's hand, thus freeing Nelvana to use her powers. Nelvana defeats the Etherians, but Vultor escapes.\n\nNelvana confronts Knuckles, a criminal inventor who has coated himself with indestructible plastic. Nelvana uses her powers to melt his protective skin.\n\nNelvana does battle with Dr. Electra, a super-criminal armed with an Atom Ray. Dr. Electra tries to frame Nelvana for the murder of the reporter Jim Blair, but Nelvana succeeds in rescuing Blair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10873025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10873025", "title": "Northeast Document Conservation Center", "text": "Northeast Document Conservation Center\n\nFounded in 1973, the Northeast Document Conservation Center (NEDCC) is the first non-profit conservation center in the United States to specialize in the preservation of paper-based library and archival materials.\n\nNEDCC was founded in response to growing alarm about the monumental scope of the paper deterioration problem facing collection-holding institutions. Its purpose is to provide the highest quality conservation services to institutions that do not have in-house conservation facilities or that require specialized expertise and to private collectors. The Center was initiated by the state librarians of the six New England states, who recognized that a multi-state facility was needed. They agreed to cooperate across state lines to create a facility that would serve all non-profit institutions in the region. Given the acute shortage of paper and book conservators and the high cost of equipping a laboratory, a cooperative approach has proven the most effective solution to the problem of making conservation services broadly available.\n\nThe Center was established with start-up funds from the Council on Library Resources, the New England Library Board, and other donors. For seven years the Center functioned as an arm of the New England Library Board. In 1980, it incorporated as a private, non-profit organization. Since then, the Center’s regional area has been extended to include clients across the country. Today NEDCC is governed by a board of directors that includes state librarians, business leaders and distinguished colleagues.\n\nNEDCC performs book conservation, paper conservation, photograph conservation, Asian paintings conservation, collections surveys, digitization, and audio preservation with the IRENE technology, on a fee-for-service basis to clients nationwide. Through its Preservation Services office, NEDCC also provides preservation needs assessments, training programs including workshops and webinars, consultations, free preservation resources, and disaster assistance. NEDCC presents a yearly national conference, Digital Directions, on creating sustainable digital collections.\n\nNEDCC has served thousands of non-profit institutions through its laboratory services, consultations and educational programs. Clients range from large institutions such as the National Archives, Boston Public Library, The Baseball Hall of Fame, and Harvard University, to small public libraries, town clerks’ offices, and local historical societies.. In addition to helping institutions whose major purpose is to serve as repositories, NEDCC assists a wide variety of other organizations. These include performing arts institutions, religious organizations, hospitals, social service agencies, labor unions, zoos, and botanical gardens as well as private and family collectors.\n\nExamples of projects undertaken at the Center include the conservation treatment of historic artifacts such as Lewis and Clark’s elk skin journal, the Emancipation Proclamation, and Babe Ruth’s personal scrapbook.\n\n"}
{"id": "56769122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56769122", "title": "PAA (test)", "text": "PAA (test)\n\nThe PAA or Prueba de Aptitud Académica is an educational assessment that is used to help universities across Latin America select incoming students. More specifically, it is a standardized test for university admissions. It is offered by College Board Puerto Rico y America Latina (CBPRAL), part of the College Board. The PAA is not a translation of the Scholastic Aptitude Test used in the United States and it is developed independently from the SAT, even though the PAA measures the same constructs as the SAT. While the CBPRAL is based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the PAA is delivered in a range of Spanish-speaking countries.\n\nThe third generation of the PAA assesses students on three components: Verbal Reasoning, Mathematical Reasoning, and Indirect Writing. Scores on each section range from 200 to 800. The fourth generation of the PAA, launched in Puerto Rico in December 2017, assesses three components: Reading and Writing, Mathematics, and English as a Second Language. A 200- to 800-point scale is used for each component. This use of scaled scoring for a test score is typical of many assessments, as it facilitates score reporting after test equating.\n\nResearch has supported the reliability and validity of the PAA.\n"}
{"id": "15892311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892311", "title": "Proto-Nahuan language", "text": "Proto-Nahuan language\n\nProto-Nahuan is the hypothetical daughter language of the Proto-Uto-Aztecan language which is the common ancestor from which the modern Nahuan languages have developed.\n\nThere is some controversy about where and when Proto-Nahuan was spoken. Following Nahuan ethnohistorical sources describing a southward migration of Nahuatl speakers, as well as the fact that all other Uto-Aztecan languages are north of the Nahuan languages, the homeland has traditionally been considered to be located to the north of the current area of extension.\n\nAn alternative hypothesis by Jane Hill is that Proto-Nahuatl arose within Mesoamerica, and the Nahuas are the only remainders of a large-scale northward migration.\n\nThe following phonological changes are shared by all Nahuan languages:\n\n\nProto-Nahuan was an agglutinative language, and its words used suffix complexes for a variety of purposes, with several morphemes strung together.\n"}
{"id": "636097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636097", "title": "Raoul Naroll", "text": "Raoul Naroll\n\nRaoul Naroll (September 10, 1920 – June 25, 1985) was an anthropologist who did much to promote the methodology of cross-cultural studies. He was born in Toronto, Ontario but was raised in Los Angeles and attended UCLA at the age of 16, dropping out in his junior year to join the military.\n\nIn 1939, he joined the army serving in Infantry, as an Officer in the Army Finance Department and in the Military Intelligence Service, screening officials and prisoners of war in Germany.\n\nAfter the war, Naroll returned to UCLA, receiving an A.B. in 1950, a Master's in 1952, and his Ph.D. in history in 1953. He did fieldwork in Austria (1956) and in Greece, Switzerland and Belgium (1965–1966).\n\nFrom 1954–1955, Naroll was a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. After, he moved to the Washington, D.C. branch of the Human Relations Area Files, Inc. (HRAF) working as a research associate where he wrote country background studies.\n\nNaroll was a member of the faculty of the San Fernando Valley State College (later renamed California State University, Northridge) (1957–1962), Northwestern University (1962–1967), the University at Buffalo (1967–1984), and was a past president of the Human Relations Area Files.\n\nThe author of eight books, several articles and book reviews, Naroll did research in many disciplines. His first book, \"Data Quality Control, a new research technique; prolegomena to a cross-cultural study of culture stress,\" concerns the issue of trustworthiness of data and methodology used in studying cultures. Much of his later research was concerned with the application of cross-cultural anthropological theory to historical data. Texts such as \"Imperial Cycles and World Order (1966)\" and \"Military Deterrence in History (1974)\" point to Naroll's concerns and scholarship on war and military studies. \"The Moral Order: An Introduction to the Human Situation (1983)\" is a broad, evolutionary study of ten factors of social life, from a cross-cultural perspective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11222888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11222888", "title": "Religio licita", "text": "Religio licita\n\nReligio licita (\"permitted religion,\" also translated as \"approved religion\") is a phrase used in the \"Apologeticum\" of Tertullian to describe the special status of the Jews in the Roman Empire. It was not an official term in Roman law.\n\nAlthough it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance. Some scholars have gone so far as to imagine that all religions under the Empire had a legal status as either \"licita\" or \"illicita\", despite the absence of any ancient texts referring to these categories. The most extreme view has held that Tertullian's phrase means all foreign religions required a license from the Roman government. But it was Roman custom to permit or even encourage the subject peoples of the provinces and foreign communities in Rome to maintain their ancestral religion, unless specific practices were regarded as disruptive or subversive: \"A \"religio\" was \"licita\" for a particular group on the basis of tribe or nationality and traditional practices, coupled with the proviso that its rites were not offensive to the Roman people or its gods.\"\n\nTertullian uses the phrase in a passage arguing that Christians should be granted the same freedom to practice their religion as any other inhabitant of the Empire; the passage itself, and not the phrase \"religio licita\", is evidence of the general tolerance afforded under the Roman system of religion.\n\n\"Religio licita\" has sometimes been taken as a formal recognition or charter originating with Julius Caesar and embodied by various pieces of Roman legislation pertaining to the Jews, conceived of as a coherent policy. In fact, the various privileges and exemptions granted to the Jews were responses to specific complaints or requests, made in the context of the traditional patronage network, and had nothing to do with a supposed \"religio licita\" status. To the extent that the Romans respected Judaism, it was because of the religion's great antiquity, ancestral tradition being regarded as a source of social and political stability.\n\nIt has been observed that \"Roman magistrates treated the Jews the way they did not because they were consciously tolerant, but simply because they had no reason to hinder the free exercise of Jewish religious practices.\"\n\nSome scholars have argued that Christianity was declared a \"religio illicita\" (an impermissible or illegitimate religion) by Domitian in the 80s AD. Though this term appears nowhere, it has been conjectured that a declaration of Christianity as \"illicita\" was the legal basis for official persecutions. There was, however, \"no law, either existing section of criminal law, or special legislation directed against the Christians, under which Christians were prosecuted in the first two centuries.\" Rome lacked a uniform policy or legal code pertaining to foreign cults, and before Christian hegemony in the 4th century, there was no legal language to designate a concept analogous to \"heresy\" or crimes against orthodox religion.\n\nUnder Constantine the Great, Christianity and other religions became tolerated with the Edict of Milan in 313. Toleration did not extend to religions that practiced human sacrifice, such as Druidism. This state of affairs lasted until 380, when Nicene Christianity was adopted as the state religion of the Roman Empire, after which time persecution of non-Christian and non-Nicene cults began. Priscillian was executed for heresy in 385, and Theodosius I began outlawing Rome's traditional religious rituals in 391.\n\n"}
{"id": "5125420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125420", "title": "Richard Arthur", "text": "Richard Arthur\n\nRichard Arthur (25 October 1865 – 21 May 1932) was an Australian politician, social reformer and medical practitioner.\n\nArthur was born in Aldershot, Hampshire, England and educated at Dover College. He received a Master of Arts from the University of St Andrews (1885) and a MB ChB from the University of Edinburgh (1888). He worked in the slums of Edinburgh, but contracted typhoid fever. He met and married his wife in Australia in 1890. He returned to Europe and studied hypnotism in Paris, which earned him an MD from the University of Edinburgh in 1891. After again becoming ill working in the slums of London, he returned to Australia and established a practice in the Sydney suburb of Mosman, specialising in eye, ear-nose-and-throat, and dental work. He was a director of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital from 1917 to 1920 and from 1927 to 1931 and of Sydney Hospital from 1924 to 1932.\n\nArthur was elected in 1904 to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly as member for Middle Harbour, representing the Liberal and Reform Party. In December 1912, he became the inaugural president of the Eugenics Society of New South Wales. He became an early advocate of child endowment in 1916 and was a strong supporter of closer settlement and assisted immigration to reduce the Japanese threat. From 1920 to 1927, he represented North Shore. He was chairman of the 1923 Royal Commission on Lunacy Law and Administration and, as a eugenicist, recommended special training and institutions for \"defectives\". He represented Mosman from 1927 to 1932 and was Minister for Public Health from 1927 to 1930 during the Bavin Government, but he failed to carry a mental defectives bill.\n\nArthur died in Mosman and was survived by his wife, son and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "42500254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42500254", "title": "Sacamantecas", "text": "Sacamantecas\n\nSacamantecas (\"Fat extractor\" in Spanish) or mantequero (\"Fat seller/maker\") is the Spanish name for a kind of bogeyman or criminal characterized by killing for human fat.\n\nJulian Pitt-Rivers reports in his study of Alcalá de la Sierra the belief that village children can be stolen by an outsider, disguised as a beggar or a trader, who is hired by a rich man whose ill child can only be cured with the blood of healthy babies.\nThe practice of blood donation lent credence to the myth.\n\nGerald Brenan describes the \"mantequero\" as a monster in human form who lives in deserted areas and feeds on \"manteca\" (\"[human] fat\").\nUpon capture, he shouts in a high pitch and, unless just fed, looks thin.\nBrenan found the myth alive during his stays in the Alpujarra (Andalusia):\nIn 1927 or 1928, he had sublet his Yegen home to the British writer Dick Strachey, nephew of Lytton Strachey.\nOne day, Strachey was walking on rough terrain where he saw three suspicious men.\nFearing of bandoleros, he ran away, but the three Gipsies chased him and drew their knives shouting at him as a \"mantequero\".\nThe first impulse of the Gipsies was to kill the \"mantequero\" and use his blood for magical remedies.\nHowever the eldest Gipsy, a convict, judged safer to bring Strachey to the mayor.\nThey offered to slit his throat themselves, but the British man claimed in his rudimentary Spanish to be a relative of king George V of England, convincing the mayor that he was not dealing with a monster.\n\nA friend of Brenan found that in Torremolinos all the girls believed in \"mantequeros\".\nIn the urban version of the legend, an old evil marquis needs baby blood transfusions to rejuvenate.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35562348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35562348", "title": "Samrup Rachna", "text": "Samrup Rachna\n\nSamrup Rachna is a form of calligraphic art created by Dr Syed Mohammed Anwer to promote peace and collaboration in the South Asia region where Hindustani is spoken \n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"Samrup\" (सामरुप) (سامروپ), meaning \"congruence\" or similar, and \"Rachna\" (रचना) (رچنا) meaning \"creative work or design\". The calligraphy is an attempt to use the two altogether different Devanagari and Nastaʿlīq script scripts, used by the same language Hindi -Urdu, in unison in such a manner that a picture of the word which is written is formed.This work is acknowledged by Indian and Pakistani print media also.\n\nFor example, the Hindustani word \"surahi\" (meaning \"ewer\" or \"pitcher\" in English) is written in Samrup Rachna calligraphy in Devanagri and Nastaʿlīq scripts of Hindustani in a way that a picture of a ewer is formed.\n\nIn linguistics, languages which are written in two different scripts are called Synchronic digraphia. Hindustani is one such language. Samrup Rachna is also advocated by its inventor to help readers of Nastaʿlīq (Urdu) script to understand and learn the Devanagari (Hindi) script of the same language. This art is aimed at helping to dispel the existing religious association with the two scripts in the region of South Asia. \n\nA unique linguistic cum calligraphic art book, Samrup Rachna – Calligraphic Expression of Apni Boli [Hindi-Urdu] was launched at the Mother Languages Literature Festival held at the National Institute of Folk and Traditional Heritage ( Lok Virsa), Islamabad, in collaboration with USAID Agency and some other NGOs including Indus cultural Forum ( ICF) on 20 February 2016, by Dr. Syed Mohammed Anwer contains over 60 visual impressions of words with cultural connotations created out of the Hindi Devanagari script and the Urdu Nastaliq script. \nBeautifully presented in hardback form the book is as much a socio-political comment as a coffee table art book. Dr. Anwer learnt the Devanagari script from his mother. The two scripts are essentially “the same language, written differently” as explained by the artist’s mother. The purpose of the Book is to highlight the fact that association of any language or its script with any particular religion is a fundamental mistake. Language has no religion. The book can also be used as ‘easy-to-learn’ book for the ‘other’ script of Apni Boli [Hindi-Urdu] by its speakers.\n\nThe author of Samrup Rachna Calligraphic Expression of Apni Boli [hindi-Urdu] is an advocate of the Supreme Court of Pakistan and is a PhD on the topic of human rights from Punjab University. The polymath is also an active member of the civil society and has remained elected President of Islamabad Bar Association in 2013. He has also written books on human rights, women’s emancipation and other social issues.\n"}
{"id": "57315219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57315219", "title": "Secular arm", "text": "Secular arm\n\nSecular arm, in ecclesiastical law, refers to the legal authority of the civil power, the State, or any lay authority, invoked by the Church to punish offenders in cases properly belonging to the jurisdiction of the Church. In the Middle Ages especially in Inquisition trials for heresy, or grave immorality, ecclesiastical courts delivered convicted clerical and lay offenders over to the secular arm to administer severe capital punishments. The phrase \"relaxed to the secular arm\" was used by the Spanish Inquistion to describe the handover of the condemned heretic.\n\nThe medieval Latin phrase 'brachium seculare' was translated first into late Middle English. \n\nIntroduced circa 1180–1250 at the time of the Albigensian Crusade, the church inquisitors delivered a Cathar heretic, or any heretic, to the secular arm, to be burnt at the stake. \nUnder canon law church tribunals had no jurisdiction to impose penalties involving mutilation or death.\nNotably the contrary circumstance of appeal by individuals to the secular authorities to interfere with, or hinder, the process of ecclesiastical jurisdiction was until recently punished in the Roman Catholic Church by excommunication.\n\nCatholic Culture\nThe Oxford Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, Religion\n"}
{"id": "37375777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37375777", "title": "Shared leadership", "text": "Shared leadership\n\nShared leadership is a leadership style that broadly distributes leadership responsibility, such that people within a team and organization lead each other. It has frequently been compared to horizontal leadership, distributed leadership, and collective leadership and is most contrasted with more traditional \"vertical\" or \"hierarchical\" leadership that resides predominantly with an individual instead of a group.\n\nShared leadership can be defined in a number of ways, but all definitions describe a similar phenomenon: team leadership by more than just an appointed leader. Below are examples from researchers in this field:\n\n\nShared leadership is also commonly thought of as the \"serial emergence\" of multiple leaders over the life of a team, stemming from interactions among team members in which at least one team member tries to influence other members or the team in general. While the definition clearly has several variants, they all make the fundamental distinction between shared leadership and more traditional notions of hierarchical leadership. As Pearce, Manz and Sims (2009) summarize, all definitions of shared leadership consistently include a \"process of influence\" that is \"built upon more than just downward influence on subordinates or followers by an appointed or elected leader.\" Nearly all concepts of shared leadership entail the practice of \"broadly sharing power and influence among a set of individuals rather than centralizing it in the hands of a single individual who acts in the clear role of a dominant superior.\" Therefore, shared leadership is an emergent team property of mutual influence and shared responsibility among team members, whereby they lead each other toward goal achievement. It differs from team leadership, team processes and team work in that shared leadership describes a set of cooperatively oriented cognitions, attitudes, and actions through which team members convert member inputs to team outputs.\n\nThough a relatively new phenomenon in the literature, the concept of shared leadership can actually be traced back several centuries. In a 2002 paper, David Sally noted that shared leadership was present even in the early days of Republican Rome. Indeed, during those ancient times, Rome \"had a successful system of co-leadership that lasted for over four centuries. This structure of co-leadership was so effective that it extended from the lower levels of the Roman magistracy to the very top position, that of consul.\" (Sally, 2002) Despite such early incantations of the practice, however, most of the scholarly work on leadership has still been predominantly focused on the study of leadership in its hierarchical form. Leadership is conceived around a single individual – the leader – and how that person inspires, entices, commands, cajoles and controls followers. Research on shared leadership instead departs from the notion that leadership may well be studied as a collective phenomenon, as activities involving several individuals beyond the formally appointed manager.\n\nThere are some earlier conceptualizations of shared leadership. In 1924, Mary Parker Follet wrote that \"one should not only look to the designated leader, but one should let logic dictate to whom one should look for guidance\" (as cited by Crainer, 2002, p. 72). Along similar lines, Gibb, in 1954, wrote that, \"Leadership is probably best conceived as a group quality, as a set of functions which must be carried out by the group.\" Despite these early nods toward group leadership, the formalized construct of shared leadership did not become more developed and experimentally explored until recently. Current research suggest that shared leadership forms may imply significant advantages at individual-, team-, organizational- and societal levels.\n\nThe shift in this scholarly paradigm might partly be explained by looking at the rise of studies on teamwork. Teamwork is becoming increasingly important in the workplace literature as many organizations recognize the benefits that teamwork can bring. Thus, organizations consider it important to investigate team effectiveness and the elements that increase this. Leaders have been pointed to as critical factors in team performance and effectiveness; some have even gone as far as to say they the most important ingredient for team effectiveness. Additionally, problems associated with team leaders are often cited as the primary reason for failures of work involving teams.\n\nWith the complexity and ambiguity of tasks that teams often experience, it is becoming more apparent that a single leader is unlikely to have all of the skills and traits to effectively perform the necessary leadership functions. Thus, shared leadership is becoming increasingly popular in teams, as multiple team members emerge as leaders, especially when they have the skills/knowledge/expertise that the team needs.\n\nThere are two main ways that most researchers measure the existence and extent of shared leadership in a team: Ratings of the team's collective leadership behavior and Social Network Analysis. A less common technique of measuring shared leadership is with the use of behaviorally anchored rating scales.\n\nMany studies measure shared leadership as team member perceptions of leader behavior exhibited by respective team leaders and team members. Often this is done by distributing leader behavior questionnaires (surveys aimed at measuring the existence and frequency of different leader behaviors) to all members of a team. Team members are instructed to fill these out once for the appointed leader and then again for all other team members. Although this allows leadership quantity to be assessed, it does not pinpoint how many other team members are engaging in leadership behaviors or how many members are looking to the same people for leadership.\n\nSocial network analysis (SNA) addresses some of the flaws of collective leader behavior ratings by assessing the patterns of connections that emerge in a team and providing a method for modeling both vertical and shared leadership within a team. SNA examines the relationships that form between individuals and uses these relationships as the units of analysis. In the leadership domain, a relationship, or \"tie\" as it is referred to in SNA literature, occurs when one team member perceives another as exerting leadership influence on the team. The proportion of actual ties that exist in a team to all potential ties that could have emerged in a team is called network density and can be used as a measure of shared leadership.\n\nSome researchers go further into SNA and analyze a network's centralization, which helps assess the distribution of leadership, as well as the quantity. Network centralization is measured using centrality values that are calculated for each individual. A centrality value for an individual represents the number of connections that individual has with others. The sum of the differences between the maximum individual centrality value and every other individual centrality value, divided by the maximum possible sum of differences, produces a measure of network centralization between 0 and 1, which describes the extent to which connections are concentrated around one individual, or if multiple individuals are central to the leadership network.\n\nA shared leadership network can be further separated into distributed-coordinated or distributed-fragmented by SNA. This distinction depends on whether the formal and emergent leaders in a network recognize each other as leaders and are able to coordinate and lead together efficiently.\n\nSome studies have sought to measure shared leadership through observations of actual leadership behaviors. Behaviorally anchored rating scales (BARS) are commonly used to assess and rate performances, and can be developed to assess different leadership behaviors. Bergman et al. (2012), for example, developed such a scale and had trained raters watch videotapes of team interactions and rate each team member's behavior in terms of the dimensions on the BARS. They then operationalized shared leadership as the number of members who performed leadership behaviors, as well as the amount of leadership behavior exhibited by the team (calculated by aggregating the leadership ratings for each team member to the team level).\n\nThere are advantages and disadvantages to each measurement technique. Although all are attempting to measure the same phenomenon and all have been used in published studies, the particular measure that a researcher uses can impact his or her results.\n\nA host of scholars who have studied shared leadership found that in order for the dynamic to properly emerge, two preconditions must be met. First, team members must actually be willing to extend their feedback to the team in a way that aims to influence and motivate the direction of the group. Second, the team must overall be disposed to accept and rely on such feedback by other team members. The preconditions specified by Katz and Kahn (1978) tend to be met by leadership sharing in teams by the development of interpersonal alliances (measured by LMX-TEAM) between and among participants as several meta-analyses reported. Carson et al. (2007) expanded these two requirements by describing them in a larger, two-part framework that includes the degree to which a strong internal team environment exists and the extent to which positive external team coaching occurs.\n\nCarson et al. (2007) propose first that shared leadership is facilitated by an overall team environment that consists of three dimensions: shared purpose, social support, and voice.The three concepts are also drawn from a wide body of literature:\n\n\nThe three dimensions are interrelated and mutually reinforcing, thereby \"representing a high order construct.\" Carson et al. summarize the interconnectivity of these three concepts in a concise narrative: \nWhen team members are able to speak up and get involved (voice), the likelihood that many of them will exercise leadership increases greatly. The opportunity for voice also facilitates shared leadership by strengthening both a common sense of direction and the potential for positive interpersonal support in a team. When teams are focused on collective goals (shared purpose), there is a greater sense of meaning and increased motivation for team members to both speak up and invest themselves in providing leadership to the team and to respond to the leadership of others. The motivation to participate and provide input toward achieving common goals and a common purpose can also be reinforced by an encouraging and supportive climate. When team members feel recognized and supported within their team (social support) they are more willing to share responsibility, cooperate, and commit to the team's collective goals. Thus, these three dimensions work together to create an internal team environment that is characterized by a shared understanding about purpose and goals, a sense of recognition and importance, and high levels of involvement, challenge, and cooperation.\n\nScholars have also described the important role that external team leaders and support can have in the development of shared leadership. When framing this dynamic or antecedent, scholars have stressed the importance of external coaching behaviors. One scholar defines these coaching behaviors as: \"direct interaction with a team intended to help team members make coordinated and task-appropriate use of their collective resources in accomplishing the team's task.\" Researchers have identified two types of team coaching—distinguishing between those that reinforce shared leadership (supportive coaching) and those that focus on identifying team problems through task interventions (functional approach). Through supportive coaching, external team managers can reinforce the development of shared leadership in a variety of ways. Through active encouragement and positive reinforcement of team members who demonstrate leadership, coaching can foster independence and a sense of self-competence nurtures among team members. Coaching can also nurture collective commitment to the team and its objectives, a shared promise that can reduce free riding and increase the possibility that team members will demonstrate personal initiative.\n\nA second, more indirect, way that external coaching may positively encourage shared leadership is based on a functional approach. Within this approach, the role of an external team leader is to do whatever is not being adequately managed by the team itself, to \"intervene on behalf of an incomplete task.\" This functional coaching can be redundant when teams have highly supportive internal environments and therefore are less critical to the overall development of shared leadership. When interventions are necessary, however, such as when teams lack a strong shared purpose, the functional approach asserts that this kind of external influence may be particularly important. In this sense, the functional approach can be understood as providing \"motivational and consultative functions that enable shared leadership but have not been adequately developed by the team internally.\"\n\nThough there is an ongoing debate about the existence and importance of shared leadership, many studies have shown that shared leadership is a significant predictor for various team processes.\n\nA commonly explored consequence of shared leadership is team effectiveness or team performance, which can be measured either by self-reports of team members or by outsider ratings, such as supervisor or client ratings. Performance is also sometimes measured more objectively, by using a commonly agreed-upon scale or rubric to rate the execution of a task. Many studies have found a positive relationship between shared leadership and team effectiveness and performance. Similarly, other studies have explored the extent to which shared leadership can predict a team's effectiveness or performance, and have found that it is a significant predictor—often a better predictor than vertical leadership.\nA meta-analysis by Nicolaides and colleagues (2014) found that one reason why shared leadership relates to performance is through increasing team confidence. The researchers also found that shared leadership contributed to performance, over and above the effects of vertical leadership.\n\nThe causes for this positive effect on team effectiveness lie in feeling empowered through the perceived responsibility and self-control in the context of shared leadership. This results in more engagement of the team members, more team cohesion, trust, a higher level of consensus and satisfaction.\n\nAs discussed in the measurement section of this article, the technique used to measure shared leadership can influence the results that are found. For example, Mehra et al. (2006) first compared teams with a distributed (shared) leadership structure to teams with a more traditional (vertical) leadership structure. In contrast to other studies, they did not find that teams with shared leadership outperformed the traditional teams. However, when they separated the distributed teams into distributed-coordinated and distributed-fragmented (see measures section), they found that distributed-coordinated team structures were associated with higher performance than both traditional leader-centered teams and distributed-fragmented leadership networks. Thus, they theorized, having more leaders is not the only factor that matters to team performance; rather, leaders must recognize other leaders as such in order for them to contribute positively to team effectiveness.\n\nNot surprisingly, shared leadership has been shown to increase the number and types of leadership (for example, transformational leadership; transactional leadership; and consideration and initiating structure).· Shared leadership enables team members to express their different abilities, thus letting members of a team exhibit different leadership behaviors. Bergman et al. (2012) found that teams did, in fact, experience more types of leadership behaviors when multiple members of the team participated in the team's leadership. Additionally, they found that each leader only effectively engaged in one type of leadership, indicating that shared leadership lets more leadership behaviors be expressed than vertical leadership.\n\nThe effect of shared leadership at school is contingent on the key players involved and how they view their missions. Conflicting thoughts on how shared leadership influences student engagement result in a variety of interpretations by researchers. Sharing leadership also impacts how teachers interact with one another, whether they possess relationships where they reinforce one another or feel distant from the organization.\n\nOne view is that sharing leadership among more people does not necessarily bring positive student outcomes. Some researchers have called the influence of shared leadership into question, suggesting that the influence of shared leadership is statistically non-significant (Leithwood & Jantzi, 1999), and indicating that shared leadership is \"not a significant factor for students' participation in or engagement with school\" (Silins et al., 2002). Timperley (2005, p. 417) also underlines the significance of promoting the quality of shared leadership activities, emphasizing that shared leadership has risks associated with \"greater distribution of incompetence.\"\n\nConversely, it has been argued that shared leadership is positively related to students' achievement. In addition, shared leadership enables teachers to employ certain methodologies or instructional content. Leithwood and Mascall(2008) conclude that shared leadership eventually influences students' math achievement indirectly by effecting teacher motivation. Similarly, a study by Heck and Hallinger(2009) shows that the development of school shared leadership has an indirect impact on students' academic growth in math, mutually reinforcing academic capacity of teachers and students over time. Researchers and writers, such as Camburn and Han(2009), have also remarked that widespread leadership promotes teachers exposure to plentiful instructional resources and the likelihood that they will employ these instruction practices. Camburn and Han's study (2009), however, does not present empirical evidence that shared leadership is associated with students' outcomes.\n\nOther research focused on the impact of shared leadership notes the teacher perceptions. Work by Hulpia and Devos (2010) reveals that leadership practices such as the sharing of leadership roles, social interaction, cooperation of the leadership team, and inclusive decision-making, positively reinforce teachers' commitment to the organization. It has been underscored that teachers' academic optimism, which refer to trust, teacher efficacy, and organizational citizenship behavior as well, are heavily and positively associated with planned approaches to leadership distribution (Mascall et al.,2008)\n\nThere are three different types of contents of shared leadership, namely shared traditional leadership, shared new-genre leadership and cumulative, overall leadership, which Wang, Waldman and Zhang (2014) included in a meta-analysis of 42 independent samples to test how these types of shared leadership moderate the relationship of shared leadership and team effectiveness. Shared traditional leadership refers to a task-oriented, transactional form of leadership, which emphasizes maintaining the status quo. Shared new-genre leadership however focuses on transformational leadership and therefore a more inspirational, visionary, growth and change-oriented kind of leadership. Lastly, cumulative, overall leadership was assessed based on individual members’ ratings of leadership influence for each of his/her peers.\n\nThe studies showed that both shared new-genre leadership and cumulative, overall shared leadership show a stronger relationship with team effectiveness than shared traditional leadership.\n\nWork complexity (also known as job complexity) acts as a moderator of the shared leadership-team effectiveness relationship, namely that the relationship is stronger when work is more complex compared with when it is less complex. This can be explained by the higher interdependence, coordination and information sharing that is necessary when work complexity is high.\n\nScholars have pointed to 4 main areas in shared leadership that need more research: \nAdditionally, more scholarship must be done on outcomes of shared leadership. The spike of recent scholarship in this field does indicate that scholars increasingly understand the significance of shared leadership as organizations in the field are also increasingly capitalizing on the many benefits a shared leadership approach can offer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2685664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2685664", "title": "Sonic the Hedgehog (2006 video game)", "text": "Sonic the Hedgehog (2006 video game)\n\nDevelopment began in 2004, led by \"Sonic\" co-creator Yuji Naka. Sonic Team sought to create an appealing game in the vein of superhero films like \"Batman Begins\", hoping it would advance the series with a realistic tone and multiple gameplay styles. Problems developed after Naka resigned to form his own company, Prope. The team split to work on the Wii game \"Sonic and the Secret Rings\" (2007), resulting in \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" being rushed for the holiday season. It was released for Xbox 360 in November 2006 and for PlayStation 3 the following month. Versions for Wii and Windows were canceled. Downloadable content featuring new single-player modes was released in 2007.\n\n\"Sonic the Hedgehog\" received praise in prerelease showings, as journalists believed it could return to the series' roots after years of mixed reviews. However, it was a critical failure. Reviewers criticized its loading times, camera system, story, stability, and controls. It has been frequently described as one of the worst games in the series. In 2010, Sega delisted \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" from retailers, following its decision to remove all \"Sonic\" games with below-average Metacritic scores to increase the value of the brand. Its failure led to a rethinking of the series' direction; future games ignored its tone and most characters.\n\n\"Sonic the Hedgehog\" is a 3D platformer with action-adventure and role-playing elements. Like the preceding \"Sonic Adventure\" games, the single-player navigates through open-ended hub worlds where they can converse with townspeople and perform missions to advance the story. The main gameplay takes place in linear levels that become accessible as the game progresses. The main playable characters are three hedgehogs: Sonic, Shadow, and Silver, who feature in separate campaigns titled \"stories\". A bonus \"Last Story\", which involves all three hedgehogs and concludes the storyline, is unlocked upon completing the first three.\n\nSonic's story focuses on the speed-based platforming seen in previous \"Sonic\" games, with some sections having him run at full speed while dodging obstacles or riding a snowboard. Another character, Princess Elise, must be escorted in some stages, and she can use a special barrier to guard Sonic. Shadow's sections are similarly speedy, albeit more combat-oriented, with some segments having him ride vehicles. In contrast, Silver's levels are slower and revolve around his use of telekinesis to defeat enemies and solve puzzles. In certain areas, control is switched to one of several friend characters, with their own abilities.\n\nAlthough each character traverses the same levels, their unique abilities allow the player to access different areas of each stage and prevent them from accessing certain items. Scattered through each level are golden rings, which serve as a form of health. The rings can protect a character from a single hit by an enemy or obstacle, at which point they will be scattered and blink before disappearing. The game begins with Sonic, Shadow, and Silver each assigned a limited number of lives. These lives are successively lost whenever, with no rings in their possession, the characters are hit by an enemy or obstacle or encounter other fatal hazard. The game ends when the player exhausts the characters' lives. Every few levels, players will encounter a boss stage; to proceed, they must defeat the boss by depleting its health meter.\n\nUpon completion of a level or mission, players are given a grade depending on their performance, with an \"S\" rank being the best and a \"D\" rank being the worst. Players are given money for completing missions; more money is given to higher ranks. This money can be used to buy upgrades for the player character. Certain upgrades are required to complete the game. The game also features two multiplayer modes: \"Tag\", a cooperative mode where two players must work together to clear levels and collect Chaos Emeralds, and \"Battle\", a player versus player mode where two players race against each other.\n\nIn the land of Soleanna, Sonic and his sidekick Tails protect Princess Elise from her kidnapper Doctor Eggman. Meanwhile, Shadow and his fellow agent Rouge accidentally release an evil spirit, Mephiles. The spirit transports them to a post-apocalyptic future ravaged by a demonic monster, Iblis. When Mephiles meets survivors Silver and Blaze, he fools them into thinking Sonic is the cause of this destruction and sends them to the present to kill him.\n\nThough at first Silver stalks Sonic and impedes his attempts to save Elise, Shadow reveals to him that Sonic is not the cause of his world's suffering but rather Mephiles, who is trying to erase the past for his own evil purposes. Throughout the story, Sonic and friends travel between the past, present, and future in their efforts to stop Mephiles and Iblis and protect Elise from Doctor Eggman. They learn that Mephiles seeks to bond with Iblis, as they are the two halves of Soleanna's omnipotent god, Solaris. Mephiles succeeds, but Sonic, Shadow, and Silver use the power of the Chaos Emeralds to transform into their super forms and defeat Solaris.\n\nAfter finishing \"Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg\" (2003), Sonic Team began to plan its next project. Among the ideas the team was considering was a game with a realistic tone and an advanced physics engine. Sega reassigned the team to start working on a new game in the bestselling \"Sonic\" series. Sonic Team decided to retain the realistic approach for the \"Sonic\" game. Series co-creator and team lead Yuji Naka wanted the first \"Sonic\" game for seventh generation systems to be a reboot of the franchise. Naka noted the success of superhero films such as \"Spider-Man 2\" (2004) and \"Batman Begins\" (2005)—which reached an audience far beyond fans of the comics those films were based on—and wanted to mimic this success. Thus, development of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" began in late 2004. Sonic Team decided to use the same title as the original 1991 game that had launched the franchise to indicate that it would be a major advance from the previous games.\n\nThe Havok physics engine, previously used in their PlayStation 2 game \"Astro Boy\" (2004), allowed Sonic Team to create expansive levels previously impossible on earlier sixth generation consoles and experiment with multiple play-styles. In addition, the engine also enabled Sonic Team to experiment with aspects such as global illumination, a night-and day system, and giving Sonic new abilities like using ropes to leap into the air. Director Shun Nakamura demonstrated the engine during their stage shows at the Tokyo Game Show (TGS) in 2005. As the hardware of Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 was more powerful compared to the prior generation's consoles, the design team was able to create a more realistic setting than those of previous \"Sonic\" games. Sonic and Doctor Eggman were redesigned to better suit this updated environment: Sonic was made taller, with longer quills, and Eggman was made slimmer and given a more realistic appearance. At one point, Sonic Team considered giving Sonic realistic fur and rubber textures. The visuals and speed were elements the team had a major focus on, but they considered their primary challenge creating a game that was as appealing as the original Sega Genesis \"Sonic\" games.\n\nSilver the Hedgehog's gameplay style was born out of Sonic Team's desire to take advantage of Havok's realistic physics capabilities. The first design concept for Silver's character was an orange mink; he attained his final hedgehog look after over 50 design iterations. In designing Shadow's gameplay, the developers abandoned the concept of firearms previously used in \"Shadow the Hedgehog\" (2005) in favor of combat elements to differentiate him from the other characters. Shadow's gameplay was further fleshed out with the addition of vehicles; each vehicle uses its own physical engine. The game also features several CGI cutscenes produced by Blur Studio. Animation supervisor Leo Santos said Blur faced challenges animating the opening scene due to the placement of Sonic's mouth.\n\nAs development progressed, Sonic Team faced serious problems, starting with Naka's resignation as head of Sonic Team to form his own company, Prope. Naka has said he resigned because he did not want to continue making \"Sonic\" games and instead wished to focus on original properties. With his departure, \"the heart and soul of Sonic\" was gone, according to former Sega of America CEO Tom Kalinske. \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" was originally intended for release on all major seventh generation consoles as well as Windows, but Sega was presented with development kits for Nintendo's less powerful Wii console. Sega believed porting the game to Wii would take too long, and so conceived a \"Sonic\" game that would use the motion detection function of its controller.\n\nTherefore, the team was split in two: Nakamura led one team to finish \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 while producer Yojiro Ogawa led the other to begin work on \"Sonic and the Secret Rings\" for the Wii. The split left an unusually small team to work on \"Sonic the Hedgehog\". Sega pressured the team to finish the game in time for the 2006 holiday shopping season, so with the deadline quickly approaching, Sonic Team rushed the final stages of development, ignoring bug reports from Sega's quality assurance department and control problems. In retrospect, Ogawa noted that the final period proved to be a large challenge for the team. Not only was the Xbox 360 release imminent, but the PlayStation 3 launch was scheduled not long afterwards. This put tremendous pressure on the team to develop for both systems. Producer Takashi Iizuka similarly recalled, \"we didn't have any time to polish and we were just churning out content as quick as we could.\"\n\nThe cast of the \"Sonic X\" anime series reprised their voice roles for \"Sonic the Hedgehog\", and actress Lacey Chabert supplied the voice of series newcomer and damsel in distress, Princess Elise. The score for the game was primarily composed by Tomoya Ohtani along with Hideaki Kobayashi, Mariko Nanba, Taihei Sato, and Takahito Eguchi. It was the first \"Sonic\" game that Ohtani, who had previously contributed to \"Sonic Heroes\" (2003) and \"Shadow the Hedgehog\", worked on as sound director. The main theme for the game, the fantasy-rap song \"His World\", was performed by Ali Tabatabaee and Matty Lewis of the band Zebrahead. Crush 40 performed Shadow's theme, \"All Hail Shadow\", while vocalist Lee Brotherton sang Silver's theme, \"Dreams of an Absolution\". R&B artist Akon performed a remix of the Dreams Come True song \"Sweet Sweet Sweet\", a song previously used as the ending theme to \"Sonic the Hedgehog 2\" (1992).\n\nBecause it was the first \"Sonic\" game for seventh generation consoles, Ohtani \"aimed to emphasise that it was a epic next-generation title.\" Two soundtrack albums were released on January 10, 2007, under Sega's Wave Master label: \"Sonic the Hedgehog Vocal Traxx: Several Wills\" and \"Sonic the Hedgehog Original Soundtrack\". \"Vocal Traxx: Several Wills\" contains seven songs; four are from the game, while the remaining three are remixes, including a version of \"His World\" performed by Crush 40. \"Original Soundtrack\" includes all 93 tracks featured in \"Sonic the Hedgehog\", spanning three discs.\n\n\"Sonic the Hedgehog\" was announced in a closed-doors presentation at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in May 2005. Later that year, at TGS in September, Naka revealed the game's title and said its release would correspond with the series' 15th anniversary. A demo version of the game was playable at E3 2006. A second demo, featuring a short section of Sonic's gameplay, was released via Xbox Live in September 2006. Sega released several packages of desktop wallpaper featuring characters from the game, and American publisher Prima Games published an official strategy guide, written by Fletcher Black. Sega also made a deal with Microsoft to run advertisements for the game in Windows Live Messenger.\n\nThe Xbox 360 version of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" was released in North America on November 14, 2006, followed by a European release on November 24, 2006. Both versions were released in Japan on December 21, 2006. The PlayStation 3 version was released in North America on January 30, 2007, and in Europe on March 23, 2007. The game is often referred to by critics and fans with colloquial terms that reference its year of release, such as \"Sonic 2006\" or \"Sonic 06\".\n\nIn 2007, Sega released several packages of downloadable content that added features to single-player gameplay. These include a more difficult single-player mode and a continuous battle mode with all of the game's bosses back-to-back. One downloadable addition, \"Team Attack Amigo\" mode, sends players through a multitude of levels, changing to a different character every two or three levels and culminating in a boss fight. The PlayStation3 version was delayed to allow more time to incorporate the downloadable content, and was thus launched alongside it.\n\nThe game was digitally rereleased via the Xbox Live Marketplace on April 15, 2010. In October of that year, various \"Sonic\" games with average or below average scores on the review aggregating website Metacritic, including \"Sonic the Hedgehog\", were delisted from retailers. Sega reasoned this was to avoid confusing customers and increase the value of the brand, following positive prerelease responses to \"\" and \"Sonic Colors\" (both 2010).\n\n\"Sonic the Hedgehog\" was well-received during prerelease showings. Reception to prior games \"Sonic Heroes\" and \"Shadow the Hedgehog\" had been mixed; after a number of well-received showings and demos, some felt \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" could be a return to the series' roots. \"GameSpot\" said the game \"showed a considerable amount of promise\" after playing a demo at E3 2006, and \"GameSpy\" praised its graphics and environments. In 2008 \"GamesRadar\" said that it had looked \"amazing\" before its release.\n\nAt the time of release, the game received widespread negative reviews. Metacritic classified both versions' reception as \"generally unfavorable\". Sega reported that the game sold strongly, with 870,000 units sold in the United States within six months. The Xbox 360 version was branded under the Platinum Hits budget line.\n\nCritics were divided on the game's presentation. \"IGN\" called its graphics and audio \"decent\" and felt its interface and menu system worked well but lacked polish, but \"GameSpot\" said the graphics, while colorful, were bland and only a small improvement over sixth-generation games, a sentiment echoed by \"1UP.com\". \"Game Informer\" and \"Eurogamer\" noted several graphical glitches. \"Eurogamer\" also criticized the decision to continue the \"Sonic Adventure\" (1998) style of gameplay, believing that Sonic Team had learned nothing from the criticisms of past games.\n\nReviewers singled out the game's camera system, loading times, controls, level designs, and glitches. \"GameSpot\" said the level design was worsened by the frustrating camera system, and \"Game Informer\" criticized the game's high difficulty, citing the camera as causing most deaths. Some reviewers were unhappy that the majority of the game was not spent playing as Sonic; playing as Tails, \"GameSpot\" wrote, made a level boring. Similar criticism was offered by \"Eurogamer\", finding that the supporting cast annoyed rather than fleshing the game out; they considered the camera system to be the worst they had ever seen in a video game. On the positive side, \"1UP\" felt that despite the control and level design problems, the game still played like a \"Sonic\" game.\n\nThe plot was criticized as confusing and inappropriately dark. \"GamesRadar\" considered it overwrought and \"conceptually challenged\", and \"Eurogamer\" found its voice acting painful and its cutscenes cringeworthy. Some reviewers unfavorably compared the story to that of an anime or \"Final Fantasy\". The romance between Sonic and the human Princess Elise was especially criticized; for \"GamesTM,\" it marked the point \"the [\"Sonic\"] series had veered off into absolute nonsense.\"\n\n\"This ... is a mess from top to bottom\", wrote \"GameSpot\", that \"only the most blindly reverent \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" fan could possibly squeeze any enjoyment out of\". \"IGN\" said that the game had some redeeming qualities, with brief segments of gameplay that demonstrated how a next-generation \"Sonic\" game could work, but found it \"rips them away as soon as it shows them\" and concluded that the game failed to reinvent the series. \"Eurogamer\" believed that \"Sonic the Hedgehog\"s mistakes would have been noticed if the game had been released in 1996.\n\nDespite the mostly negative reception, \"Game Informer\" and Dave Halverson of \"Play Magazine\" defended the game. \"Game Informer\" described it as ambitious and praised the graphics, story, amount of content, and replay value, but believed only \"Sonic\" fans would enjoy the game. Halverson initially gave the Xbox360 version a 9.5/10, praising each character's controls and abilities and calling it the best 3D \"Sonic\" game yet. In the following issue, Halverson reassessed it as 8.5/10, writing that he had been told that the load times and glitches in his review copy would not be in the final version of the game. In a later review of the PlayStation3 version, Halverson was frustrated that the problems had still not been corrected and that the performance was worse despite the extra development time; Halverson gave this version a 5.5/10. \"The A.V. Club\" said in 2016 that despite its poor quality, the soundtrack has some \"genuine rippers\".\n\n\"GameTrailers\" and \"GamesRadar\" considered \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" one of the most disappointing games of 2006. \"GamesTM\" singled out the game when it ranked the \"Sonic\" franchise at the top of their list of \"Video Game Franchises That Lost Their Way\". \"The A.V. Club\", \"Kotaku\", \"Game Informer\", and \"USgamer\" called the game the worst in the \"Sonic\" series, and the staff of \"GamesRadar\" named it among the worst video games of all time. The game remains popular for \"Let's Play\" walkthroughs, with players showing off its glitches. The official \"Sonic\" Twitter account also mocks the game. The failure of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" led to the direction of the series being rethought. The next main \"Sonic\" game, 2008's \"Unleashed\", ignored the gritty and realistic tone of its predecessor. With \"Unleashed\"'s sequel \"Sonic Colors\" (2010), \"The A.V. Club\" wrote, \"the series rediscovered its strength for whimsical tales with light tones.\"\n\n\"Sonic the Hedgehog\" introduced Silver the Hedgehog, Princess Elise, Mephiles, and Iblis to the franchise; most have made few appearances since. Silver is a playable character in \"Sonic Rivals\" (2006) and its sequel, in \"\" (2007), and in \"Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games\" and its sequels, and is a minor character in the Nintendo DS version of \"Sonic Colors\" (2010) and \"Sonic Forces\" (2017). He also appeared in the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" comic book series published by Archie Comics. The main theme of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\", \"His World\", was sampled in Drake's 2017 song \"KMT\".\n\nTo celebrate the \"Sonic\" franchise's 20th anniversary in 2011, Sega released \"Sonic Generations\", which remade aspects of past \"Sonic\" games. The PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Windows versions feature a remake of \"Sonic the Hedgehog\"s \"Crisis City\" level, and every version, including the Nintendo 3DS version, includes a reimagined version of the boss battle with Silver. The decision to include \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" stages and bosses in \"Sonic Generations\" was criticized by critics and fans of the series; Jim Sterling of \"Destructoid\" referred to the Silver boss fight as the \"catch\" of the otherwise high-quality game.\n\nIn 2015, a fan group, Gistix, began developing a remake for Windows using the Unity engine. A demo was released in January 2017, and was positively received by journalists. A second demo was released in late 2017, which \"Eurogamer\" called ambitious.\n\n"}
{"id": "16822737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16822737", "title": "Taikōria", "text": "Taikōria\n\nIn Māori tradition, Taikōria was one of the great ocean-going, voyaging canoes that was used in the migrations that settled New Zealand. Captained by Ruatāmore, the \"Taikōria\" landed with the \"Kahutara\" and the \"Ōkoki\" at Ngāmotu near New Plymouth.\n\n"}
{"id": "8706021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8706021", "title": "Tejate", "text": "Tejate\n\nTejate is a non-alcoholic maize and cacao beverage traditionally made in Oaxaca, Mexico, originating from pre-Hispanic times. It remains very popular among the indigenous Mixtec and Zapotec peoples, especially in rural areas. It is also very popular in Oaxaca and the surrounding regions. Principal ingredients include toasted maize, fermented cacao beans, toasted mamey pits (pixtle) and \"flor de cacao\" (also known as \"rosita de cacao\"). These are finely ground into a paste. The paste is mixed with water, usually by hand, and when it is ready, the flor de cacao rises to the top to form a pasty foam. It can be served as-is or with some sugar syrup to sweeten it. The drink is served cold.\n\nThe origin of the Mexican Spanish name \"tejate\" is not known for certain, but is thought to derive from the Nahuatl \"floury water\" \"texatl\" , compounded from \"flour\" \"textli\" and \"water\" \"ātl\" . The Zapotec name for tejate is \"cu'uhb\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56342875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56342875", "title": "The Lost Art of Forehead Sweat", "text": "The Lost Art of Forehead Sweat\n\n\"The Lost Art of Forehead Sweat\" is the fourth episode of the eleventh season of the American science fiction television series \"The X-Files\". The episode was written and directed by Darin Morgan.\n\nThe episode focuses on the Mandela Effect and is a self-parody of the show and recurring events.\n\nAfter turning down Scully for dinner, Mulder receives a signal to meet someone. In the parking lot, he meets a man named Reggie who claims to know him. The man claims that someone is trying to erase him from society and to prove his point refers to Mulder's childhood memory of watching \"The Twilight Zone\" episode \"The Lost Martian\" (which in reality is non-existent), to Mulder's surprise. Scully later matches his disbelief when Reggie (now going by the last name \"Something\") gives her a container of a cherry-flavored Jell-O rip off brand called Goop-O A-B-C, which she remembers from her childhood. Mulder and Scully, and eventually Reggie, argue over whether these events are an example of the Mandela Effect or as Reggie refers to it, the Mengele Effect. Mulder and Scully are shocked to remember that Reggie Something was formerly a member of the X-Files team, and in fact started working on them alongside Mulder and was there on the day in 1993 when Dr. Dana Scully arrived in the basement office. After going over their past cases (with Reggie now part of many iconic past moments from the series), they learn that the \"they\" Reggie keeps screaming about as the orchestrator is a memory-manipulating scientist named Dr. They. He not only meets with Mulder but does so in an obvious public place, explaining somewhat cheerfully that the age of people covering up their sins is over and Mulder should just \"believe what you want to believe–that's what everybody does now anyway\". Dr. They also appears to threaten Mulder when he says \"you're dead\" but then grins and says that he means Mulder's purpose via the X-Files and chasing down conspiracies is dead.\n\nReggie is revealed to be a longtime government employee turned mental-ward patient named Reggie Murgatroid, whose past besides the X-Files included being a lethal drone pilot, waterboarding terrorists, working IRS forms longhand, and sleeping through a stint as a fraud detection officer. Finally, the three of them come to their last X-Files case together: an encounter with a Trump-like alien who brings the remnants of the Voyager spacecraft and says that humanity is horrible and the rest of the universe has banded together to build a wall in outer space that will prevent mankind from ever getting near them. The alien says that despite some good people, human beings are unique in the singular negative sense that they constantly lie. He gives Mulder a book with \"all the answers\" and wishes them a less-than-fond goodbye and good riddance. Mulder is apparently distraught with the idea of there being no more answers to seek and breaks down into a childish tantrum as Reggie and Scully embrace. In the present, Reggie is taken back to the mental institution; as Skinner witnesses this, he apparently recognizes Reggie and asks why he's being taken away, much to Mulder and Scully's surprise.\n\nBack at Mulder's house, they watch \"The Lost Martian\" after Mulder figures out it was a real episode from a cheap sci-fi knockoff show, and just as Scully begins to eat some Goop-O, she stops and she says \"I want to remember how it all was\".\n\nThe episode guest stars Brian Huskey as Reggie, whose casting was revealed in September 2017 via Gillian Anderson's Twitter account. The episode features a montage of clips from past episodes, which insert Reggie into them; episodes featured included \"The Pilot\", \"Tooms\", \"Clyde Bruckman's Final Repose\", \"Teso Dos Bichos\", \"Home\", \"Small Potatoes\", and \"Unusual Suspects\". The character of Reggie was previously briefly introduced in the second episode of the season, \"This\", when he appears in the digitized X-Files database. Regarding what clips to use, writer and director Darin Morgan commented:\n\nThe episode features several other Easter eggs and references, including references to the TV shows \"The Twilight Zone\" and \"The Outer Limits\", and the movie \"Kazaam\", which is a popular example of the Mandela effect. The name of the mental institution, Spotnitz Sanitarium, is a reference to former \"X-Files\" writer Frank Spotnitz.\n\nThe scene featuring Mulder and Dr. They was filmed at the \"A-maze-ing Laughter\" art installation park in Vancouver.\n\n\"The Lost Art of Forehead Sweat\" received very positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 100% with an average rating of 9.34 out of 10 based on 10 reviews.\n\nIn its initial broadcast in the United States on January 24, 2018, it received 3.87 million viewers, which was slightly down from the previous week, which had 3.95 million viewers. When taking into account the Live +7 ratings for the week of January 22–28, it received 5.62 million viewers.\n"}
{"id": "6022695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6022695", "title": "The Lost Room", "text": "The Lost Room\n\nThe Lost Room is a 2006 science fiction television miniseries that aired on the Sci Fi Channel in the United States. The series revolves around the titular room and some of the everyday items from that room which possess unusual powers. The show's protagonist, Joe Miller, is searching for these objects to rescue his daughter, Anna, who has disappeared inside the Room. Once a typical room at a 1960s motel along U.S. Route 66, the Lost Room has existed outside of normal time and space since 1961, when what is referred to only as \"the Event\" took place.\n\n\nThe Room is the now nonexistent Room 10 at the abandoned Sunshine Motel outside Gallup, New Mexico. At 1:20:44 p.m. on May 4, 1961, something happened at the site of the Room that erased it and all its contents. This is referred to as \"the Event\" or \"the Incident\", and is thought to be the reason for the unusual properties of the Room and the Objects from within it. At the time of the Event, the motel was in serviceable condition, but after the event nobody remembers that a tenth room ever existed. One of the Objects, the undeveloped Polaroid picture, allows a person to view the tenth room as it was at the time of the Event by standing at its now vacant location at the Sunshine Motel ruins.\n\nThe Room can be accessed only by the person who has the Key. The Key will open any hinged door with a pin tumbler lock anywhere in the world, turning that door into a portal accessing the Room regardless of where it would normally open into. As Joe Miller sees on the surveillance tape, when a door is opened using the key, it appears closed if viewed from the other side of that door. When exiting the Room, its door opens not necessarily to the original place of entry, but to any room the holder of the Key has in mind, or to a random room if the user does not focus. To reach a specific room the user must have a clear picture of the room's door and the area around it. The \"Lost\" Room thus serves as a means of instant travel between similar doors anywhere on Earth. Hinged doors with types of locks other than a tumbler lock or with no lock at all, sliding doors and rotating doors cannot be used to access the Room. The door used does not have to be installed in a wall and can be a smaller prop door or a freestanding doorway; the only important elements are the lock and that it be a hinged door.\n\nAny time the door is closed with the key outside the room, the Room \"resets\": everything that is not an Object disappears, including people. Multiple people can enter the room at once, but they must exit the room when the Key does. When the Room resets, any Objects in the Room will return to their original position at the time of the Event. A benefit of this is that an Object enclosed within something else, such as a safe, may be retrieved by leaving it inside and resetting the room. This can also be use to distinguish real Objects from fakes, since fakes will disappear.\n\nObjects, when outside the Room, possess special powers and are indestructible. When inside the Room, Objects lose their special properties and can be destroyed. According to the Occupant, a new Object will take the destroyed Object's place, a phenomenon he refers to as the Law of Conservation of Objects. The Occupant states that there are many Rooms, and so any non-Object left in the Room is not erased, but exists in a different instance of the Room. The reset, in turn, represents a confluence of these Rooms, allowing the Occupant (the only Object with consciousness) to retrieve things lost during a reset, provided he has a clear idea of what he wishes to retrieve.\n\nThe Event is a shorthand term given to the moment in time that the Lost Room was created. It occurred at 1:20:44 p.m. on May 4, 1961, and erased the room and all of its contents from history. The reason behind this and the ultimate purpose of the Objects is unknown, though two primary hypotheses have been postulated. Even the man occupying the room at the time of the event doesn't seem to know what happened, so the truth remains a mystery. Both hypotheses essentially lead to the same conclusion, but attribute the event to different causes.\n\nOne faction, the Order of the Reunification, operates under the belief that the Objects are pieces of God's mind or body (God having presumably died or been killed somehow) and that reuniting them will allow them to communicate with God. More extreme versions of this view hold that reuniting the Objects will turn one into God or at least give that person God-like powers. Martin Ruber purports that the Occupant confirmed this particular theory for him in a vision, making him the self-proclaimed \"Prophet of the Objects\", but his near-death state from dehydration and heat exhaustion at the time casts doubt on his claims. Additionally, the Occupant himself shows no knowledge of the circumstances behind the event. The Deck of Cards, which gives one who is exposed to it a vision of the events during the Collectors' failed attempt to use the objects on Room 9 of the hotel, may be the source of their beliefs, as it is used in their rituals.\n\nAnother (though not necessarily contradictory) view of the phenomenon suggests that reality was somehow shattered at the location of the Room, thus separating it and everything in it from time and giving its contents metaphysical abilities. Should the items be collected and returned to the room by an individual, that person would then have complete control over reality. This theory works under the assumption that the one gathering the objects has the knowledge to utilize them properly. Since the Objects are just considered tools, they would do no good if the user were unaware of their paranormal functions.\n\nThe Objects are powerful artifacts and consist of roughly 100 everyday items one would expect to find in an occupied motel room in the 1960s. They are indestructible (except when inside the Room) and possess various other-worldly powers when taken outside the Lost Room, but do not work within the Room itself. According to the Occupant (Eddie McCleister), when an object is destroyed within the room, another object takes its place. Whether the new object takes the former's properties partially or totally is unknown. Various characters repeatedly put forth the opinion that, over time, Objects lead to something akin to bad karma or bad luck for their owners. All of the items (including the occupant) attract one another, wanting to come together. The Occupant states that the objects are aware of each other, constantly sending out pings to each other and that for a living mind this is torture; the Occupant was eventually found when a search of the recorded history of other Objects revealed a small circular area where the Objects had never been detected, representing the area where the Occupant had resided for years.\n\nMany Object-seekers have organized themselves into groups, known as \"cabals\". Wars between cabals are mentioned in the series. There are at least three cabals:\n\n\nThe miniseries is presented as six \"one-hour\" (44 minute) episodes, rather than as three \"two-hour\" episodes as originally broadcast. These are named \"The Key\", \"The Clock\", \"The Comb\", \"The Box\", \"The Eye\", and \"The Occupant\". The DVD also includes an 18-minute-long making-of featurette, \"Inside \"The Lost Room\"\", with comments from the writers and actors.\n\n\"The Lost Room\" received mixed reviews, scoring 58 out of 100 on Metacritic. Positive reviews included Mike Duffy of the \"Detroit Free Press\" who called it \"a terrific, six-hour miniseries, beautifully written and sharply directed.\" David Hinckley of the \"New York Daily News\" called it \"a very complex metaphysical mystery, the enjoyment of which comes, in no small part, from the surprises that spill out as it slowly unfurls.\" Negative reviews came from Matt Roush of \"TV Guide\", calling it \"an especially silly descent into incoherence.\"\n\nThe miniseries received two Emmy Award nominations, for Outstanding Main Title Design and Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Miniseries or a Movie. It was nominated for Best Presentation on Television at the 33rd Saturn Awards. Writers Laura Harkcom, Christopher Leone, and Paul Workman were nominated for a 2008 Writers Guild of America Award.\n\nIn July 2010, the series' creators announced at the 2010 San Diego Comic-Con International that Red 5 Comics will be publishing a sequel, in comic book form, to \"The Lost Room\". Publication was expected in late summer or early autumn 2011 but it has yet to be released. The January 2012 update from Red 5 states that although production of the comic has \"slowed\" due to the creators being pulled into other projects, Red Five Comics is still \"100% committed to completing this comic\". As of April 2013, the project has been put on hold indefinitely, \"cancelled… or shall we say disappeared and relocated, like the room itself\", with a promise to \"let everyone know\" if that changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "23620246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23620246", "title": "Tourism in Equatorial Guinea", "text": "Tourism in Equatorial Guinea\n\nBecause Equatorial Guinea has undergone many years of international isolation, its tourism industry is very undeveloped, with limited hotel space available in Malabo and Bata. Attractions include the Spanish colonial architecture of Malabo, the beaches, and the tropical rain forests. A certificate of vaccination against yellow fever is required. A valid passport is needed; there are no visa requirements for US passport holders. \n\nIn 2004, the US Department of State estimated the cost of staying in Equatorial Guinea at $218 per day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52331263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52331263", "title": "Vagalume", "text": "Vagalume\n\nVagalume is a music portal from Brazil. Created in 2002 by the couple Ana Letícia Torres and Daniel Lafraia, they used the PHP language with MySQL database to initially create a small base of lyrics of songs. Gradually, users sent lyrics and included information from artists of all musical genres (more than 1,000 new lyrics are sent daily). Over time, other content was added, for example autographs, biographies and discography. The stylized logo was created by remembering the insect firefly. The portal is one of the most accessed throughout Brazil and Portugal.\n\nIn 2004 the first plugin of the site was launched, which integrated with Winamp. It had a good acceptance and prominence in the Brazilian media, with that the plugin was also developed for other players, like Windows Media Player, iTunes and Foobar2000. In April 2006 the magazine Info Exame classified the plugins as a 206 of the best software on the planet. In August 2006 the site was also taken to Argentina in partnership with UOL, but was extinguished with the change of the site to the IG. Since mid-2012 the site is partner of R7 the news portal of Rede Record.\nIn 2016 Vagalume launched the Vagalume FM, a Brazilian music streaming platform to compete with Spotify and Deezer, the application has already been downloaded more than 10000 times on Google Play, the site's own application has already downloaded more than 10 million Times.\n"}
{"id": "3662045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3662045", "title": "Web-based Inquiry Science Environment", "text": "Web-based Inquiry Science Environment\n\nThe Web-based Inquiry Science Environment (WISE) is a program hosted by Berkeley University and supported by the National Science Foundation. It provides a platform for creating inquiry-based science projects for middle school and high school students to work collaboratively using evidence and resources from the Web. WISE inquiry projects are typically developed by teams including teachers, researchers, and scientists. These projects range in duration from 2 days to 4 weeks, suitable for teachers in every science topic at all grade levels. The use of Internet materials provides the foundation of WISE. All projects make use of some content from the World Wide Web, as well as additional Web pages authored for purposes of the project. This approach helps students learn to use the Internet for inquiry, critiquing Web sites, designing approaches, or comparing arguments. Typical projects engage students in designing solutions to problems (e.g. building a desert house that is warm at night and cool during the day), debating contemporary science controversies (e.g. the causes of declining amphibian populations), investigating scientific phenomena (e.g. thermal equilibrium in the classroom), or critiquing scientific claims found in web sites (e.g. arguments for life on Mars).\n\nWISE projects can also incorporate Java applets, flash models, forums to facilitate online discussions, data collection, drawing, argument creation, resource sharing, branching, concept mapping and other built-in components. WISE is entirely browser-based, meaning that students only need access to a computer with an Internet connection, with no required software other than the Web browser). All student work is saved on central project servers that enable student accounts and teacher accounts to be coordinated, with special Web environments designed to support teachers and students. Students can access their work from any computer on the Internet. Teachers can choose from the library of curriculum projects in the WISE Teacher's Portal, each accompanied by a set of materials including a detailed lesson plan, pre and post assessments, connections to the AAAS National standards, tools for setting up a custom grading scheme, and even a software tool that enables customization of the WISE project for local issues, geographical features or student populations. Teachers can monitor and grade student work in real time, provide formative feedback during a project run, and manage their student accounts. \n\nFinally, WISE provides a user-friendly interface to facilitate the authoring of new projects, with numerous technology-based components including online discussions, data collection, drawing, argument creation, resource sharing, concept mapping and other built-in tools. Developers can also include custom tools of their own design. Projects are further customizable by teachers and other end users through the same interface to better meet the needs of their students and constraints of local educational settings. The website provides rich descriptions of the WISE learning environment, a library of inquiry projects for students and teachers, a teacher support center, and the complete authoring environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "40247188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40247188", "title": "Young Ones (film)", "text": "Young Ones (film)\n\nYoung Ones (UK title Bad Land: Road to Fury) is a 2014 action science fiction film directed and written by Jake Paltrow. The film stars Nicholas Hoult, Elle Fanning, Michael Shannon and Kodi Smit-McPhee. The film had its world premiere at 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 18, 2014. The film was released on October 17, 2014 in the United States.\n\nIn a post-drought apocalypse United States, people kill for water. Ernest Holm lives with his son Jerome and daughter Mary in their small townhouse and field. His wife has been involved in an accident earlier and is now permanently hospitalized in a facility where she can walk while wired to a special frame. While everyone else has left the area, Ernest and his family remain, as Ernest believes that the land will grow once more if only there is irrigation. Ernest gets water for his family by delivering supplies to the \"water men\" who extract water from deep wells through a government deal. When his mule breaks its legs and he has to kill it, Ernest goes to Sam Lever's auction house and buys a robotic carrier machine called Simulit Shadow (\"Sim\") to replace it, beating the offers of Flem Lever, Sam's son, a young, troubled man who has been seeing Mary without Ernest's consent.\n\nOne morning, Ernest finds the Sim is missing, and he goes looking for it. When he gets to the water men, he is accused of stealing their supplies. He finds Flem transporting the stolen supplies with the Sim; Flem plans to sell them at the border. Ernest takes Flem captive, ties him to the machine, and aims to take the supplies back to the water men. When they stop due to dehydration, Flem convinces Ernest to rehydrate with the liquor they are transporting. Wanting to escape, Flem throws a stone at Ernest's head and frames the machine for Ernest's death.\n\nFlem marries Mary after helping the family obtain illegal irrigation from the water men, thus saving their farm, which was originally Flem's father's. But after finding out Ernest had overwhelming debts to repay to a bank, which is now going to repossess the farm, Flem tricks his friend Robbie into selling his baby behind his wife's back. Robbie is killed and the Sim is lost in an altercation with the buyers. However, the machine returns limping and mangled to its manufacturer, who resides in a city across the border. The owner, Calvin Hooyman, reaches Jerome at the Holm residence via CB radio, informing him about the machine.\n\nJerome crosses the border with the help of Anna, a girl who lives with the \"settlers\", people fighting back against the government's regulations and considered terrorists. Jerome meets Calvin, who gives the repaired Sim back to him, and shows Jerome how the machine's laser sensor behaves like a rudimentary video recorder. Jerome plays the recording and finds the truth about Ernest's death. Arriving home before Flem, Jerome questions him as to how the machine found its way home, since Flem claimed to have sold it in order to repay the debt. Flem's lies only infuriate Jerome more, but at first he takes no action. Instead, he lures Flem out in the desert by posing as Robbie via radio and letters, ultimately causing Flem to fall into a pit trap and break his legs. As Flem cries for help, Jerome, who has been secretly following him, comes at the pit's mouth. Flem realizes that Jerome knows about what happened to Ernest. He tries to elicit Jerome's mercy, but Jerome coldly shoots him in the head. Jerome ultimately decides to withhold these events and the circumstances of Ernest's death from Mary, who is pregnant with Flem's child. Brother and sister remain in the house, planning to bring their mother there from the hospital now that they can pay for her brace wires, and wishing the baby will be a girl.\n\nThe film is divided into three chapters, named after the main character in each of them: \"Ernest Holm\", \"Flem Lever\", and \"Jerome Holm\", respectively.\n\n\nNicholas Hoult, Elle Fanning, Michael Shannon and Kodi Smit-McPhee joined the cast on February 7, 2013. Giles Nuttgens is the director of photography while Tristan Lynch and Michael Auret are the producers. On May 13, 2014 Screen Media Films acquired the U.S. rights to the film.\n\nThe shooting of the film began in February 2013 at Namaqualand, Northern Cape, South Africa and shot until March 15.\n\nThe first trailer was released on July 6, 2014. Another U.S. trailer was released on July 23.\n\nThe film was released on October 17, 2014 in the United States.\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 43% of 30 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 5.3/10. The critical consensus states: \"Visually compelling but narratively barren, \"Young Ones\" adds little to the dystopian Western genre.\" Metacritic rated it 47/100 based on 13 reviews. Geoff Berkshire of \"Variety\" wrote, \"Jake Paltrow's visually rich, dramatically spare sci-fi Western bogs down in its primal tale of murder and revenge.\" David Rooney of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote, \"There's little refreshment on offer in this parched lo-fi sci-fi drama, despite the distinctive element of its retro rural setting.\" Jeannette Catsoulis of \"The New York Times\" called it a \"spare but potent melodrama\" that focuses on male violence. Robert Abele of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that it \"gets lost amid a mishmash of film styles\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47033271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47033271", "title": "Zanjan rug", "text": "Zanjan rug\n\nZanjan rug or Zenjan rug is the handmade Iranian carpet from Zanjan (Iranian Azerbaiajn).\n\n"}
