{"id": "48808018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48808018", "title": "2016 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2016 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe 2016 United Nations Climate Change Conference was an international meeting of political leaders and activists to discuss environmental issues. It was held in Marrakech, Morocco, on 7-18 November 2016. The conference incorporated the twenty-second Conference of the Parties (COP22), the twelfth meeting of the parties for the Kyoto Protocol (CMP12), and the first meeting of the parties for the Paris Agreement (CMA1). The purpose of the conference was to discuss and implement plans about combatting climate change and to \"[demonstrate] to the world that the implementation of the Paris Agreement is underway\". Participants work together to come up with global solutions to climate change.\n\nThe conference was presided over by Salaheddine Mezouar, the Moroccan Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Approximately 20,000 participants were expected to attend.\n\nOn 2 May 2016, events firm GL Events signed the service contract. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations also lent its support to the preparation for COP 22\".\n\nThe participants in the conference are members of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The aim of this convention is to prevent \"dangerous human interference with the climate system\". It is closely related to both the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention to Combat Desertification; all three are considered 'Rio Conventions' adopted at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. There are seven steps that the UNFCCC lists as a \"summary of the convention\".\n\nThe Marrakech Conference is a continuation of regular global summits organised by United Nations following the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol was written in 1997 at COP3, but was not officially adopted until February 16 of 2005. It was in effect from 2008 to 2012. It implemented strict regulations to ensure global emission reduction. There are three main mechanisms that a country can utilize to help reduce emissions: international emissions trading, clean development mechanisms, and joint implementation.\n\nThe Protocol is also meant to assist countries in adapting to the conditions of climate change. Additionally, the UN Climate Change Secretariat receives reports from Parties, verifies transactions, and holds Parties accountable. The UNFCC considers the Kyoto Protocol a \"first step\" to climate change resistance.\n\nThe Paris Agreement aims to prevent the rise of global temperatures. This is regulated by reports sent in by the Parties, meant to increase transparency of actions taken by both developing nations and advanced ones. It also has measures to increase countries' ability to adapt to conditions of climate change. The means of change that a country can take are called \"nationally determined contributions\". NDC's are essentially the efforts that each country will take to reduce their emissions. The period of effect for this agreement began on November 4 of 2016. So far, it has been ratified by 132 out of 197 Parties at the convention.\n\nThe Copenhagen Conference was intended to follow on from Kyoto, and culminated in the Copenhagen Accord, a 3-page text laying out common international intentions regarding climate change (reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, limiting global warming to 2 °C and providing 30 billion dollars for 2010-2012). Despite these goals, the conference was generally considered a failure.\n\nThe aim of the Durban Conference was to start negotiations from scratch in order to prepare the path for future negotiations. The Ah Hoc Working Group on the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action was created to \"close the ambition gap\" that existed between greenhouse-gas emission commitments made by nations and the aim to keep climate change below an increase of 2 °C.\n\nThe priority of the Lima Conference was to redouble efforts to keep to the aim of keeping climate change under an increase of 2 °C between the present day and 2100. The conference opened with a preparatory document on a future COP21 agreement in Paris and by adopting a 37-page text.\n\nThe 195 countries participating in the conference adopted the first worldwide climate agreement, a binding treaty that aims to limit climate change to a temperate increase of under 2 °C.\n\nThe convention's attendees can be sorted into one of three categories: parties, observers, or members of the press/media.\n\nThere are three distinct groups that a nation can be placed in if they are considered a \"party\". These are Annex I, Annex II, and Non-Annex I. The organization of parties decides the level of participation of each country. It determines if the country is required to give financial aid to others, how often they must send reports, and the strictness of regulations in their country. The Annex I title refers to industrialized countries involved in either the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in 1992 or countries in economic transition (EIT). Annex II refers to countries in OECD but not EIT. These parties are required to help less advanced countries financially. They are also expected to take extra measures to transition to climate friendly technologies in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Non-Annex countries are developing and particularly vulnerable to climate change due to location, economic situations, or other issues institutionalized into the country. Another title is \"least developed countries\". This indicates that the nation is limited in their ability to respond to climate change issues. This label indicates to other parties the extra level of support necessary.\n\nObserver organizations include the United Nations Systems and its specialized agencies, inter-governmental organizations (IGOs), and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Observer organizations must apply and be accepted by the COP to send representatives to any meeting or presentation related to the UNFCCC. NGOs can be businesses, labor unions, research or academic institutes, native populations, gender-affiliated groups, youth groups, environmental activists, farmers, and agriculturists. Around 2,000 NGOs and 100 IGOs were admitted to the 2016 conference. Once an organization is admitted, they do not have to reapply for the following conference. Observers may submit responses, on behalf of their entire organization, relating to topics or mandates within the conference. \n\nEach COP is meant to cooperatively decide on how to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, each year a different theme is chosen and focused on. The twenty-second session dealt mainly with water management and decarbonizing energy supplies. COP22 took place on November 14 and 15 during the UNFCCC in Marrakech. The ways in which the Paris Agreement will be applied, as well as the agenda for negotiations, were on the agenda for COP22. Nik Gowing, known as a British journalist, chaired the event.\n\nOn the margins of COP22, a summit involving \"around 30 African heads of state\" took place on 16 November 2016 in Marrakesh. This summit focused primarily on climate negotiations, in the backdrop of Africa being the part of the world that is the most threatened by global warming. On a more local note, the city of Marrakesh also took the opportunity to create for itself a greener image; for example, it has provided 300 bicycles for public use as part of a municipal bicycle-sharing scheme.\n\nOn 14 November, the Swiss Global Infrastructure Basel Foundation (GIB) presented the newly launched SuRe – The Standard for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure at the Climate Summit for Local and Regional Leaders.\nGIB participated in a dialogue on “financing the sustainable transition of territories” to contribute to the Marrakech Roadmap for Action definition.\n\nDetailed issues relating to water transportation, infrastructure in the context of water storage, sustainable distribution, innovation for conservation, and accelerating efforts for new technologies. There were four moderators of the event: Raymond van Ermen, a Belgian member of the European Water Partnership; Masagos Zulkifli, Minister for the Environment and Water Resources of Singapore; Edgar Gutiérrez Espeleta, Minister of Environment and Energy in Costa Rica and President, UNEA; Susan Mboya, the President of the Coca-Cola Africa Foundation.\n\nThis panel addressed issues surrounding the utilization of renewable resources, how policy can be used to promote renewable markets, and how infrastructure can be improved to accommodate these changes. The moderators include Nik Gowing, British journalist; H.E. Fatima Al Foora of the United Arab Emirates; Lord Gregory Baker of the United Kingdom; Andreas Regnell of Sweden, and Jan Rabe from Siemens AG.\n\nMobility, especially public transportation, was the main focus of this forum. Members discussed possibilities for sustainable public transportation options that were attractive to the user. The main goal was to innovate ways public transportation could become zero emission. The moderators included Nik Gowing, United Kingdom; Andreas Klugescheid, United States; Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, Norway; Glen R. Murray, Canada; Matt Rodriquez, United States.\n\nThis panel discussed promoting new green products in relation to finance, while also incorporating climate considerations throughout economic systems. The panel members include Eric Usher, Canada; Jochen Flasbarth, Germany; Christian Grossman, Germany; Frederic Samama, France; Mustapha Bakkoury, Morocco; Monica Scatasta, Luxembourg.\n\nParties discussed how low emission technology can be integrated within existing infrastructure, how policymakers can implement technology safely, and how the UNFCCC can aid local businesses in the transition to green energy. The moderators include Janos Pasztor, Hungarian; H.E. Nestor Batio Bassiere, Burkina Faso; Diego Pavia; Mafalda Duarte, United States; Elham Ibrahim, Africa.\n\nThis forum developed ideas on how to create business models that left a minimal carbon footprint on the earth. The moderators include Philippe Joubert, Nigeria; Peter Wheeler, UK; Pertti Korhonen, Finland; Paul Simpson, UK; April Crow, US.\n\nThis forum discussed how new technologies and innovations must showcase environmentally friendly and sustainable attributes. Additionally, they should help create green jobs and also be able to be incorporated into already existing markets. Moderators include Sue Reid, Indonesia; Paul Isaac Musasizi, Uganda; Eric Olson, US; Yoshioka Tatsuya, Japan.\n\nThe inclusion of fossil fuel lobby groups with observer status, including the World Coal Association, the Business Council of Australia, Business Europe, and the Business Roundtable, has been met with criticism. Analysts suggested the election of Donald Trump in the 2016 United States Presidential race impeded efforts at the congress due to his regressive views on climate change. His stance on climate change was not known.\n\nOther criticisms came from environmental campaigners who argued that the Conference was \"heavy on rhetoric and light on real progress.\" The Conference in Paris the year prior was seen as one that provided a foundation for future progress, with the succeeding event in Marrakesh supposed to be turning those promises into action. Additional criticisms depicted the less developed countries as not receiving enough money in order to help them adapt to \"changes that are already happening because of global warming.\"\n"}
{"id": "43360459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43360459", "title": "25-30 Alliance", "text": "25-30 Alliance\n\nThe 25-30 Alliance is an alliance of independents that will run in the 2015 Egyptian parliamentary election. The name of the alliance refers to the revolution that overthrew Hosni Mubarak on 25 January 2011 and the overthrow of Mohamed Morsi on 30 June 2013. Members of the April 6 Youth Movement and Tamarod will join the alliance; the Free Egyptians Party might join as well. The alliance has put in place quotas for women and youth on its electoral lists. Abdel-Hakim Abdel Nasser started the alliance. Members of the alliance will run for individual seats in the parliament. The alliance has indicated that it is not part of the Reawakening of Egypt list.\n"}
{"id": "15215517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15215517", "title": "Annie Leonard", "text": "Annie Leonard\n\nAnnie Louise Leonard (born 1964) is an American proponent of sustainability and a critic of consumerism. She created the animated film \"The Story of Stuff\" (2007), which describes the life cycle of material goods. In 2014, she became the Executive Director of Greenpeace USA.\n\nLeonard was born in Seattle, Washington, where she also grew up. She graduated from the Lakeside School, and received an undergraduate degree from Barnard College in 1987 and a graduate degree from Cornell University in City and Regional Planning.\n\nAfter interning at the National Wildlife Federation in the late 1980s, Leonard began working with Greenpeace on a campaign to ban international waste dumping, traveling around the world to track garbage and hazardous waste sent from developed to less developed countries. \"I was sneaking into the factories where it was being disposed, interviewing the workers, taking hair samples and soil samples to prove the environmental health harm,\" she later explained in an interview with Cornell University.\n\nIn 1992, she testified in front of the US Congress on the topic of international waste trafficking. The work of Greenpeace and other organizations led to the 1992 Basel Convention, an international treaty to protect less developed countries from the dumping of hazardous waste by transnational corporations based in developed countries.\n\nLeonard is best known as the creator and narrator of the animated documentary about the life cycle of material goods, \"The Story of Stuff\" (2007). The documentary began as an hour-long talk and was made into a condensed film version based on popular demand. She also wrote a book version of the film, published in 2010 in the United States by Free Press of Simon & Schuster, in the UK by Constable & Robinson, and in Germany by Econ Verlag.\n\nAfter \"The Story of Stuff\", she created \"The Story of Cap and Trade\" (2009), which addresses emissions trading. Subsequent productions include \"The Story of Bottled Water\", \"The Story of Cosmetics\", \"The Story of Electronics\", \"The Story of Citizens United v. FEC\", \"The Story of Broke\", \"The Story of Change\", and \"The Story of Solutions\".\n\nIn addition to her work on the \"Story of Stuff\" films, Leonard was co-creator and coordinator of GAIA (the Global Alliance for Incinerator Alternatives), serving on the boards of International Forum on Globalization (IFG) and the Environmental Health Fund. She previously worked for Health Care Without Harm, Essential Information, and Greenpeace International, and was coordinator of the Funders Workgroup for Sustainable Production and Consumption.\n\nLeonard was named the Executive Director for Greenpeace USA in May 2014.\n\nLeonard lives in the San Francisco Bay Area with her daughter Dewi, born in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "56854425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56854425", "title": "Blaire White", "text": "Blaire White\n\nBlaire White is an American conservative political YouTuber.\n\nWhite has described feeling gender dysphoria from a young age. When she was 20 years old, she came out as transgender to her family and friends and began feminizing hormone therapy in 2015. White attended California State University, Chico, where she studied computer science. While attending college, she appeared on a friend's live stream, and commenters encouraged her to start a YouTube channel of her own.\n\nWhite lives in Los Angeles, California. She describes her political beliefs as center-right.\n\nWhite began her YouTube channel on November 27, 2015, and posted her first video on the platform on December 2 called \"Female Privilege | Antifeminism\". She continued making videos about her life, and her views on feminism, gender politics, and social movements like Black Lives Matter.\n\nIn February 2017, White was banned from social networking platform Facebook for 30 days, drawing complaints from her supporters. Her account was reinstated shortly afterwards, and Facebook said the ban was in error. On November 11, 2017, White and her boyfriend filmed a video in which they wore hats bearing the Trump slogan \"Make America Great Again\" and attended an anti-Trump protest on Hollywood Boulevard. In the video, she claims to have been assaulted twice, and had a drink thrown in her face. Fact-checking website Snopes.com has partly debunked the claim, stating that the altercation had happened, but that it is unclear if the drink-throwing was staged, and that police say that White and her boyfriend began the altercation when they crossed a divider between pro- and anti-Trump protesters.\n\nWhite has appeared on political talk show \"The Rubin Report\" several times, discussing issues including the North Carolina Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act, which requires individuals to only use restrooms and changing facilities that correspond to the sex on their birth certificates. She has also appeared on \"Shane and Friends\", a video podcast hosted by Shane Dawson.\n\n"}
{"id": "34050000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34050000", "title": "British Freedom Party", "text": "British Freedom Party\n\nThe British Freedom Party (BFP) was a short-lived far-right political party in the United Kingdom. The party was registered on 18 October 2010. It was de-registered by the Electoral Commission in December 2012 after failing to return the annual registration form and £25 fee by the due date of 31 October 2012.\n\nThe BFP was registered on 18 October 2010 by Peter Mullins (2010-2011 party leader), Peter Stafford (nominating officer) and Simon Bennett (treasurer). According to \"The Guardian\" it was created by \"disgruntled members\" of the British National Party (BNP). The chairman until January 2013 was Paul Weston, a former UK Independence Party candidate in Cities of London and Westminster. He described the party as \"central\" in orientation.\n\nThe BFP formed a pact with the English Defence League (EDL), whereby members of the latter could stand as election candidates under the British Freedom Party name, given suitable circumstances. It was announced in April 2012 that the EDL leader, Tommy Robinson, would be named deputy party leader. According to \"The Guardian\" he would focus on anti-Islamic strategies. Weston was replaced in early January 2013 by Kevin Carroll, former deputy leader of the EDL. Weston went on to found Liberty GB which put forward three candidates, including Weston, for the 2014 European election.\n\nThe stated objectives of the British Freedom Party were \"to defend and restore the freedoms, traditions, unity, identity, democracy and independence of the British people, to establish full sovereignty over all our national affairs by restoring the supremacy of the British Parliament, to withdraw from the European Union, to promote democratic British nationalist principles, to promote the social, economic, environmental and cultural interests of the British people and to preserve and promote the ancestral rights and liberties of the British people as defined in the British Constitution.\"\n\nThe party also had a 20 Point Plan on its main website, highlighting some of its key policies. They ranged from economic issues to social ones.\n\nThe British Freedom Party espoused what it called \"cultural nationalism\". Weston said in an interview that the founders of the British Freedom Party:\n\nStephen Tweed, the BFP's Local Party Organiser for Kings Lynn and West Norfolk, objected in April 2012 to the creation of an Islamic centre in an old pub in King's Lynn, because it would be \"exclusive, it will not be for the general public, it will be for Muslims only\".\n\nAccording to the party's official return to the Electoral Commission, at the end of 2010 the party had 62 members. The report continues \"Our membership to date is approximately 149\", but no date is provided.\n\nin the 2012 local elections the British Freedom Party fielded six candidates, five of them in Liverpool. All polled very low, ranging from 0.6% of the vote to 4.2%. In Fazakerley, Peter Stafford received 50 votes, a 1.51% share of the total in that ward.\n\nThe party stood Kevin Carroll, the deputy leader of the EDL, in the November 2012 Police and Crime Commissioner election in Bedfordshire. He came fourth with 8,675 votes (10.6%), saving his deposit.\n"}
{"id": "34133979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34133979", "title": "Buku Jingga", "text": "Buku Jingga\n\nBuku Jingga, a Malay phrase literally translated as Orange Book, is the long-term administration master plan by the Malaysian opposition party coalition Pakatan Rakyat, which is made up of three major component parties: Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS), People's Justice Party (PKR) and Democratic Action Party (DAP). It acts as a comprehensive framework for the opposition coalition to govern the country if the opposition parties manages to gain control of the Malaysian federal government from the ruling party Barisan Nasional in the upcoming general elections.<ref name=\"http://www.ar-rifke.com/2011/01/apa-itu-buku-jingga-pr-download-buku-jingga-percuma.html\" >http://www.ar-rifke.com/2011/01/apa-itu-buku-jingga-pr-download-buku-jingga-percuma.html</ref>\n\n\"Buku Jingga\" is the basic policy that was formally agreed between the three component parties during the Second Pakatan Rakyat Convention in Penang on 19 December 2010. It acts as an alternative to Barisan Nasional's policies such as the Economic Transformation Programme, New Economic Model (NEM) and the Government Transformation Programme (GTP) \"Buku Jingga\" outlines its stand on various issues in the current administration in Malaysia, and which therefore underlies the proposal of a 100-day reform across the country. Besides that, \"Buku Jingga\" serves as a basis to the manifesto of a social contract between the government and the people. This includes increases in teacher's incentives, abolishment of the highway toll system and the Internal Security Act (ISA), and the increase of royalties paid by the government to oil-producing states in Malaysia.\n\n\n\nThese are the basic principles set out by the Pakatan Rakyat which have been put into practice in several Pakatan Rakyat controlled states in Malaysia with several key people-friendly policies to achieve distributive growth.\n\nPakatan Rakyat vows to:\n\nPakatan Rakyat believes that hardships and poverty faced by majority of Malaysians are caused by uneven distribution of income. Therefore, it vows to:\n\nPakatan Rakyat believes that there has been an incessive erosion of the rakyat's purchasing power, as inflation continues to outpace increases in salaries. In addition to promoting productivity growth, there is an increasing pressure to address the problem of rising costs which are suppressing the disposable income of the people. Productivity growth will require the development of an effective education system, the growth of investments and the promotion of R&D. This will take time to implement and achieve. However, the party coalition believes it can address unjustified high costs of utilities due to corporate monopolies and put the steps to ensure abundance of affordable housing immediately. Therefore, Pakatan Rakyat vows to: \n\nBesides that, Pakatan Rakyat thinks that the people possess the right to monitor the effectiveness of any government – to ensure good and clean administration. Pakatan Rakyat vows to:\n\nRecognising the immense contribution of the educators towards the nation’s development and social solidarity, Pakatan Rakyat vows to: \n\nUnder regime of Barisan Nasional, Pakatan Rakyat believes that Malaysian universities are trapped in a crisis of \ncredibility and quality. This is a pressing and major problem for the nation. Aside from that, Pakatan Rakyat believes that no further time can be wasted, and that urgent and specific attention is needed, with a concerted effort to restore the standard of the varsities. Therefore, Pakatan Rakyat vows to:\n\nIdentifying the widespread destructive trends wrought by corruption upon the nation, Pakatan Rakyat vows to:\n\nRecognizing the position of Sabah and Sarawak as equal partners in the Malaysian Federation, and honouring previous agreements made, Pakatan Rakyat vows to:\n\n\nMalaysia's Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak, has dismissed Buku Jingga as \"not worth the paper it is printed on\". In a speech on 31 September, he said that Pakatan's masterplan which amongst others aimed to restructure subsidies and abolish tolls was not feasible, arguing that doing so would spell the end of Bursa Malaysia since most of the concessionaires are public-listed companies. He said as well that Pakatan's promise to wipe out the National Higher Education Fund Corporation's (PTPTN) RM33bil debt was also not doable.\n\nOne of the component parties of Pakatan Rakyat, PAS, explicitly states that its mission is to create an Islamic state guided by Islamic principles. As such, UMNO Kelantan delegate Mohd Afandi Yusoff has criticised Buku Jingga for not including hudud law, accusing PAS of abandoning their Islamic principles.\n"}
{"id": "7219060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7219060", "title": "Caucasus Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development", "text": "Caucasus Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development\n\nThe Caucasus Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development (CIPDD) is a Tbilisi-based think-tank founded in 1992. It is headed by the Georgian political scientist Ghia Nodia. Its main areas of research are: conflict prevention and resolution (with particular emphasis on Javakheti region); political parties; media, especially regional media; security studies and civil-military relations; local self-government development in Georgia, religious minority and education.\n\nIn addition, numerous educational projects are implemented by CIPDD in the fields of religious education, conflict resolution, political system and party organization and also other fields. Several translated and original publications were prepared and published by publishing division of CIPDD, Francis Fukuyama's \" The End of the History and the Last Man\" (Georgian trans.) and discussion series \"Debates in Caucasus Institute\" among them. \n\nPartner-organizations of CIPDD are: OSCE (including Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights - ODIHR); CordAid Foundation (Netherlands), Open Society Institute (USA), Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy - NIMD (Netherlands); other western donors and nongovernmental organizations. \n\nMost of the Institute sponsors are Western governments (like those of the U.S., UK, Austria), Western supranational organizations (NATO), governmental or government funded agencies and programmes (USAID, National Endowment for Democracy, Latvian Institute for International Affairs) and private funds (George Soros' Open Society Foundation).\n"}
{"id": "14032340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14032340", "title": "Climate Alliance", "text": "Climate Alliance\n\nClimate Alliance of European Cities with Indigenous Rainforest Peoples is a network of local authorities founded in 1990 and committed to the protection of the world's climate. The European Secretariat of Climate Alliance is based in Frankfurt am Main, Germany.\nClimate Alliance has members in Austria, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Ukraine.\n\nThe more than 1,700 member cities and municipalities from 26 European countries aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at their source. Their allies are the indigenous peoples of the rainforests. The indigenous partners are represented by COICA, the Coordination of Indigenous Organisations of the nine neighbouring countries of the Amazon Basin.\n\nBy joining Climate Alliance, cities and municipalities embrace the following voluntary commitments:\n\nFoundation pillars of local climate protection are energy savings and efficient energy use as well as renewable energy sources and environment-friendly mobility. Climate Alliance advises cities and municipalities on the implementation of climate protection strategies and develops recognised tools for standardised recording of energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Furthermore Climate Alliance develops and coordinates projects and campaigns, which address different target groups. Besides of own activities Climate Alliance is partner of further campaigns and steps also into political actions. On national and international level it stands up for European local authorities engaged in climate protection and supports organisations of Indigenous peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "872165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872165", "title": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Manitoba)", "text": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Manitoba)\n\nThe Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (Manitoba) (CCF), known informally as the Manitoba CCF, was a provincial branch of the national Canadian party by the same name. The national CCF was the dominant social-democratic party in Canada from the 1930s to the early 1960s, when it merged with the labour movement to become the New Democratic Party. The Manitoba CCF, created in 1932, played the same role at the provincial level.\n\nIt was initially a small organization, and was supported by members of the Independent Labour Party, which had existed in the province since 1920. The ILP and CCF were brought into a formal alliance in 1933, despite misgivings from some in the former party.\n\nThe ILP was the leading social-democratic party in Manitoba prior to the CCF's formation. It had a reliable support base in Winnipeg and other urban areas, but had virtually no organization in the countryside. The CCF was formed to bring labour and farm groups into the same political camp. Some ILP members saw this as diluting their party's integrity.\n\nThe provincial CCF had become stronger by 1936, and the ILP's candidates in that year's provincial election were referred to as \"ILP-CCF\". After the election, some disgruntled ILP members succeeded in temporarily disaffiliating the parties. Pressure from David Lewis and J. S. Woodsworth brought about a quick realignment, but relations remained strained.\n\nAt the start of World War II, the ILP and CCF were again in disagreement: the ILP supported an all-out war effort, whereas the CCF supported the conscription of \"wealth rather than men\".\n\nThis controversy contributed to the defeat of federal CCF MP Abraham Albert Heaps in the election of 1940.\n\nThe CCF eventually gained control of the ILP's internal organization, and the two parties were effectively one after 1941. The ILP formally disbanded in 1943.\n\nIn late 1940, the ILP-CCF accepted an offer by Manitoba Premier John Bracken to become part of an all-party \"unity government\". This decision was opposed by some national leaders (including David Lewis), but was supported by local figures such as Seymour Farmer, who had led the ILP parliamentary group since 1935. On November 4, 1940, Farmer became the first socialist politician in Canadian history to attain cabinet rank, having been sworn in as Minister of Labour.\n\nThe CCF's experience in the coalition government was a disappointment to the party. The party leaders had hoped to use their influence to promote progressive labour legislation; instead, Bracken's government forced Farmer to seek \"free votes\" on his ministry's initiatives (these soon became party votes, with the CCF invariably losing). Farmer resigned from government in December 1942, and the CCF formally left the coalition in 1943. The CCF's time in government demoralized its membership, and hindered its electoral fortunes - voters elected only three CCF MLAs in 1941.\n\nFor the next few years, the CCF's primary concern was preventing infiltration from Communists (then officially represented by the Labour Progressive Party). Some figures in the LPP favoured cooperation with the CCF; the CCF leadership was fully opposed to this, and suspended two prominent Manitoba MLAs when they advocated formal cooperation. Accusations of being \"Communist sympathizers\" would hinder the party's fortunes for years to come.\n\nIn 1944, the national party was performing well in the polls and a CCF government was elected in neighbouring Saskatchewan. The Manitoba CCF hoped to repeat this success the following year, but won only 10 seats out of 55. This failure was due in part to the province's outdated electoral boundaries, which favoured rural ridings at the expense of the cities.\n\nFarmer resigned as party leader in 1947, and was replaced the following year by Edwin Hansford. The party won only seven seats in the election of 1949, amid a period of generally poor fortunes for left-wing parties in Canada. Hansford resigned as leader in 1952, replaced by Scottie Bryce.\n\nThe selection of Bryce was somewhat unusual, in that he was a federal MP without experience in the provincial house. He was apparently chosen as party leader due to fears that his federal seat would be eliminated by redistribution. Bryce ultimately decided against joining provincial politics, and was replaced by Lloyd Stinson before the 1953 election.\n\nStinson was probably the most adept of the Manitoba CCF's leaders, but he was unable to translate his personal popularity and charisma into victory at the polls. The party fell to five seats in 1953, during the first election to be held after the province's Liberal-Conservative coalition dissolved amid acrimony.\n\nThe Liberal government of Douglas Campbell became increasingly unpopular in the mid-1950s, and the CCF was able to tap into some of the public's discontent. Stinson was relatively popular among the province's \"centre-left\" voters, and the CCF increased its seat total to eleven in 1958.\n\nThe primary benefactors of Campbell's unpopularity, however, were the Progressive Conservatives under Dufferin Roblin, who won 26 seats out of 57. The Campbell government initially attempted to stay in power through an alliance with the CCF, which turned down this offer (perhaps due to the disappointment of 1940-43). Roblin was sworn in as Premier later in the year.\n\nRoblin's government put the CCF in a paradoxical situation, as the new Premier initiated long-overdue progressive legislation and outflanked the CCF in a bid for centre-left voters. The CCF was forced to lend support to Roblin's initiatives, thereby providing his ministry with the legislative record it needed to win a majority the following year. The Tories won 38 seats the following year, with the CCF dropping to 10. Stinson resigned as party leader in 1960, and was replaced by Russ Paulley.\n\nThe national CCF had fallen to eight seats in 1958, losing much of its support to John Diefenbaker's Tories. When the national party \"reinvented\" itself in 1961 as the New Democratic Party (via an alliance with the Canadian Labour Congress), the provincial CCF followed suit.\n\nThe \"New Party\" in Manitoba affiliated with the Manitoba Federation of Labour, and Paulley became the first provincial NDP leader later in 1961.\n\nThe CCF ceased to exist, having been superseded by the New Democratic Party of Manitoba in much the same way as it had previously superseded the ILP.\n\n\nAll party leaders were elected to their position without opposition.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Ran as the ILP-CCF in 1932, seats compared to the Independent Labour Party's 5 seats in the previous election.\n\n"}
{"id": "13031176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13031176", "title": "Colonial surplus", "text": "Colonial surplus\n\nA colonial surplus is a way of measuring the effects of the relationship between colony and metropolis.\n\nA colony, in the sense of a region being ruled by a foreign overseas power, was in a different position from that of an independent country. As Maddison remarked some time ago of India, ‘The major burden of foreign rule arose from the fact that the British raj was a regime of expatriates.’ Such expatriates generate a flow of funds out of the colony. Something similar would have occurred in Latin America during the post-Spanish period of ‘informal rule’ by British and American finance.\n\nSimply, the Colonial Surplus is a measurement of the benefits in money terms gained by citizens, business and government of the colonising power (metropolis) from the colony. It is a measure of exploitation. It describes and calculates part of the economic relationship between colonising power and colony. The part it describes is revenue to the metropolis. The colonial surplus measures in money terms what the metropolis gets out of its colony, its gains. It includes the sum of the trading and financial relationship between the two. (and it covers gains made by other nationals operating in the colony). The foremost part deals with the balance of trade and services.\n\nThe presence of a Colonial Surplus may be evidenced by an export surplus on the part of the colony that was outstandingly large. The export surplus must be particularly large for it has to pay real expenses such as insurance and freight of the goods exported which may not be part of the colonial surplus. But it is better if there is a Balance of Payments account for the colony. Better still if this can be supported by statistics from the Balance of Payments or National Income for the metropolis or from other overseas accounts. It need not be supposed that those records of colonial exploitation are especially accurate for accountancy was in its infancy and there will be errors, omissions and downright evasions in them. Nonetheless used critically they should be enough to determine the size of the Colonial Surplus, if any.\n\nIncluded in this calculation would be items not only like private and government dividends and profits transferred abroad but also pensions transferred abroad, travel expenses to and from the colony, other government expenditures overseas, changes in overseas bank balances and so on. Attention should be paid to profits made but not distributed in the colony and to investment out of undistributed profits which may or may not be included in the colony’s Balance of Payments. An example is the colony of the Netherlands East Indies (Indonesia) where they could not be included in the Balance of Payments for lack of evidence.\n\nIn several colonies special arrangements were made for the transfer of funds that that should be included in the Colonial Surplus but do not appear in the colony’s balance of payments data. They have to be sought for elsewhere.\n\nAll but one of these items above deal with international transactions (or should do). The exception to this would be the inclusion of incomes made in the colony by non-indigenous private persons and businesses.\n\nFurther items might be added, such as the inclusion of the colonial budget (or part of it), special profits made by metropolitan nationals through their superior status, gains from exports to the colony that would not otherwise have been made and so on. These are more debatable items. All of them except for the colonial budget were presented and discussed in a paper on the Netherlands East Indies by a former colonial statistician in 1946. A further method to include underestimated profits and tributes was outlined by Amiya Bagchi in 2002.\n\nSome authors incline to the view that taking changes into account the same principle may be utilised to measure exploitation of developing countries in the present-day world. \nOther authors deny the whole validity of the concept.\n\n"}
{"id": "1263031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263031", "title": "Conflict: Middle East Political Simulator", "text": "Conflict: Middle East Political Simulator\n\nConflict: Middle East Political Simulator, often known as \"ConfMEPS\" or simply \"Conflict\", is a turn-based government simulation game designed by David J. Eastman and published by Virgin Mastertronic in 1990 for DOS, Atari ST and Amiga (with extended graphics). The game is available for free download at abandonware sites.\n\nThe game is set in 1997. The Prime Minister of Israel has just been assassinated, leaving the player to run the country as the new Prime Minister. The player's objective is to cause the defeat of the neighbouring four states, either by invasion (not necessarily by Israel, as the other states can and do invade each other) or political destabilisation.\n\nEach game turn represents one month in real time. On each turn, the player decides what diplomatic, espionage and military actions to take with regard to the other countries in the game, and then ends the turn. The game engine then runs and the results of the turn occur (each turn begins in fact with some information about what has occurred in the previous turn being presented as a screen of newspaper headlines).\n\nThe actions available to the player are broken up into two phases: Diplomatic/Espionage and Military.\n\nEach country in the game has a diplomatic relationship with every other country, with that relationship varying from Military Pact (best) to War (worst), through a number of stages.\n\nIn addition, there is a special relation mode, called \"Attack means disaster\", which seems to accrue when all nations with the ability of holding nuclear weapons, possess such. Under such mode, all other relation forms become obsolete.\n\nWith each turn, the player directly sets Israeli diplomatic policy with regard to the other countries in the game. Diplomatic policy is very simple: Israel is either trying to improve the diplomatic relationship, keep it as it is, or make it worse. The action change in the relationship for a turn depends upon Israeli policy set against that of the other country; if both are trying to improve, the relationship will improve by one step. If either tries to make the relationship worse, it will deteriorate by one level. Otherwise, it remains steady. Roughly US$100 million is taken out of the monthly defense budget when diplomatic relations are being improved beyond Favourable.\n\nIf the country's diplomats are acting aggressively toward Israel, relations will usually not budge, even if the player attempts to improve relations. Bordering states, however, will gradually deteriorate relations with Israel upon showing signs of aggression until war is declared. Relations will not improve if Israel has troops stationed at the border. Some countries will stop acting aggressively toward Israel if the player stations a brigade at the border, but this rarely occurs during gameplay. If Israel successfully bombs Egypt or Syria's nuclear facilities, relations will drop one level on the next turn.\n\nSome countries will not improve relations with Israel if they are unhappy that the player has at least a Favourable relation with an enemy state or one they do not agree with. For example, if Egypt and Libya are at war, either country will not allow the player to improve relations if both are Favourable with Israel. Another example would be if Iran and Iraq are at war, and Egypt is unhappy that Israel is friendly with Iraq. In both cases, the only solution is for Israel to reduce relations with either country.\n\nWhen a relationship is Indifferent and Israel decides to reduce the relationship in the diplomatic phase, or if the relationship is at Lamentable, Deplorable or Non-Existent, Israel can declare war and invade the country. The only exceptions are Iran, Iraq and Libya - whose diplomatic relations do not go below Indifferent as they do not border Israel.\n\nSome countries at war with another will be quick to form an alliance with Israel if their relations are within Favourable. As a result, the relation will jump to Profitable (skipping Beneficial) on the next turn.\n\nWhen a relationship is at Profitable, the player can choose to request a military pact. If this is given, then if Israel goes to war with a country which also has a border with the allied country, that country will, in turn, reduce its relationship to Lamentable and then declare war. (Note, however there is no such obligation placed upon the player, who can simply ignore wars their ally enters into).\n\nWhen an allied country conquers an enemy state, it will often sever its pact with Israel and progressively reduce relations with an aggressive stance (with the neighbouring countries doing this until war is declared on Israel). If the country's relationship with Israel is Favourable at an aggressive stance, but its stability rate is below Good, it will attempt to keep that relationship level due to its unstable leadership, even if the player attempts to reduce relations. Ordering a successful airstrike on Egypt or Syria's nuclear installations will reduce relations at a much faster rate at this point and lead to war (unless their governments collapse first).\n\nDuring a war, the player may attempt to offer a ceasefire with the enemy state, or vice versa. Once a ceasefire is signed between the warring states, diplomatic relations will be restored to Satisfactory, but often with the opposing country's diplomats acting aggressively toward Israel. This will once again plunge both countries into war within the next couple of turns.\n\nEach country's government has a stability rating. If that rating falls to the lowest value, the government collapses and the country is out of the game. Within each turn, for each country in the game, Israel can choose to work to reduce the stability of the Government, keep it as it is, or increase the stability of the government.\n\nAlso, each country has a level of insurgency, which represents how well-organized the insurgent forces are.\n\nWhen a country conquers an enemy state, its stability rating is upgraded to Very Solid, making it more difficult to destabilize. When a ceasefire between two countries is signed at the next UN Summit, the country that had the advantage on the last turn has its stability upgraded to Very Solid, while the other is downgraded to Good or below.\n\nIf a country's stability rating is Weak or below or if the insurgency in the country is at Guerilla Force or better, Israel can opt to consider extreme measures, which are to attempt assassination of the country's leader or start a coup. If this attempt succeeds, the country collapses and is out of the game.\n\nThere are two ways an assassination attempt can fail. If the failure results in the assassins being arrested, Israel is detected and relations with that country and the West sour. The failure can also result from the country's leader actually surviving the assassination attempt; the next step would be to stage a coup attempt while that leader is recovering at a hospital. If an attempted coup fails, the insurgent forces are usually destroyed. A coup is very unlikely to succeed unless the insurgents are very strong and the government is Very Weak, so a premature coup which destroys the insurgency can be a useful strategy for helping a government (often much more effective than disrupting a fast-growing insurgency).\n\nOnce diplomatic and espionage policy is set, the player moves on to the military actions. It is not possible to return to diplomacy and espionage once the player has moved to military actions.\n\nIsrael has two ways of becoming unstable: the Palestinian problem - which can be increased by hostile nations, and insecurity of the Israeli public - which occurs if the player does not win a war within two or more years. If this instability is not resolved, the player faces the risk of being impeached or assassinated.\n\nThe player has two tasks to perform: the first is to spend the defense budget; the second is to set military actions with regard to the other countries in the game.\n\nOn each turn, the player receives a budget to spend on weaponry. The size of the budget depends on the level of hostility in the surrounding countries; if Israel is at war, or if another country is in the process of reducing diplomatic relations to declare war, the budget is large (US$300 million plus, per turn). If the level of hostility is low, and life is peaceful, the budget is small (US$100 million). As such, the defense budget awarded by the game is an indicator of the policy intent of neighbouring countries. If they are peaceful, the budget will be small; if one or more countries is bent on war, the budget will be large.\n\nWeapons are purchased from the USA, UK, France or a private arms dealer. (Each country sells weapons that it itself produces, except the private dealer, who is a South African providing access to Soviet-era weaponry.) Each source offers a different range of weapons with different prices and most countries will only offer better weapons once a reasonable number of purchases have already been made (which establishes that a relationship has been built). Not all countries offer all the same weapons; for example, anti-SAM helicopters are only available from the USA and the private dealer.\n\nThe weapon systems available for normal combat are:\n\n\nSpecialised-function weapon systems available are:\n\n\nWeapon types are identical as far as war is concerned, regardless of their price: so the US$2M T-62 Main Battle Tank from the private dealer is exactly the same as the US$2M M1A1 Main Battle Tank from the USA. Price differences can be significant over a few turns; for example, fighters from the USA are US$39M each but French fighters are only US$35M each. Also, the French Medium Tank functions exactly the same as the other dealers' Heavy Tanks.\n\nWeapons purchased will usually be available by the next turn, except from the private dealer, which usually takes 1-2 turns to ship. The private dealer's advantage is the ability to sell arms to the player if an arms embargo is imposed on Israel.\n\nAnother factor in the game is the development of nuclear weapons. Each country (except Jordan and Lebanon) can begin and maintain a nuclear weapon development program. One of the main ways to lose the game is for WMDs to be used, which often sets off a global nuclear holocaust. This can present a problem to players, since it can be other countries that use WMDs in their own conflicts against countries other than Israel. It is possible to reduce this possibility by destroying nuclear installations as they arise.\n\nOn each turn, the player decides whether to fund nuclear development for that month (it only costs US$20M and so is usually done). Once the player has nuclear weapons ready, they are able to fire them during war at their discretion. Depending on the situation of the war, the player's use of WMDs will either result in an instant victory or a nuclear holocaust, which ends the game in a loss. Consequently, if the player wins a war using a nuclear strike, the UN will impose an arms embargo on Israel, forcing the player to buy arms from the private dealer until the next UN summit.\n\nEach year, Israel can choose to increase or decrease the GDP percentage of the defense budget (it starts at 35%) by 2%, and to increase the size of the Army by two units (which apparently harms the relationship with the USA).\n\nEvery year, the United States provides economic and military aid to Israel. This varies between nothing and four billion dollars, depending on how good Israel's relationship is with the US. (To put that into context, a large monthly defense budget, such as would be granted during an active war, is about 350 million dollars).\n\nThe game also models the problems caused by the Palestinian situation. The \"Palestinian problem\" is Israel's internal insurgency, just as the other countries have their insurgency and concomitant government stability problem. Other countries presumably can choose to act to stoke Palestinian discontent, and as the player becomes unsuccessful and increasingly unpopular, the Palestinian situation worsens - eventually, this will cause the player to be deposed and thus lose the game.\n\nThe player can choose to deploy a brigade to police the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, which is supposed to help reduce discontent. Once a brigade has been deployed, the player can choose \"soft\" or \"hard\" tactics. Hard tactics presumably are more effective, but cause international outcry, presumably reducing relations with the USA and so affecting their annual military grant.\n\nDuring the annual UN summit, an offer can be made to form a Palestinian homeland, which permanently removes this problem and improves relations with the USA. The only disadvantage seems to be that if the player goes to war with the bordering country that offered the homeland territory, Israel finds itself at a territorial loss, usually two bars on the war progress meter.\n\nPrior to war, Israel can launch precision air strikes against bordering countries. These strikes can be performed on military, civilian, industrial, or nuclear targets. Military, industrial, and civilian targets can only be attacked if the diplomatic relationship with a country is very bad. Military strikes may destroy a very few army units (five main battle tanks, for example). Civilian and industrial strikes are done particularly to reduce diplomatic relationships.\n\nNuclear targets can be attacked at any time, and doing so retards or even eliminates the development of that country's nuclear program (which then continues as before, but from its reduced development level). However, if the country has a mushroom cloud icon in place of a nuclear installation icon, this means that the country has successfully tested their warheads and the player can no longer cripple their nuclear development. This can happen if the player's order for a nuclear installation airstrike fails in two consecutive turns.\n\nIf the diplomatic relationship with a country is bad enough, and there are Israeli troops deployed on the border, Israel can invade, or be invaded. This triggers war.\n\nA country can only invade countries with a shared border. The four states neighbouring Israel in \"Conflict\" are Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.\n\nLibya, Iraq, and Iran are also present in the game, and can invade the countries which neighbour them, but they have no common border with Israel and so cannot be invaded by the player (and do not have to be defeated to win the game).\n\nWhen a war occurs, certain unit types attack certain other unit types in the opposing army. So, for example, anti-tank helicopters destroy enemy tanks, while losing a certain number of their own numbers in the process (which may relate to the number of SAM units).\n\nEach country is unique and has its own diplomatic agenda, government stability and military capability. The biggest threats to the player are Syria and Egypt, as they have larger armies and are capable of developing nuclear weapons. Iran, Iraq, and Libya can also carry nuclear arms and are capable of ending the game with them, with the exception of Libya - which often does not get a chance to use them during war with Egypt.\n\nEgypt shares borders with Libya and Israel and is very stable diplomatically. It takes many turns of destabilisation to topple the government. Egypt also has the largest army in the game and in a one-on-one war, it will generally defeat Israel badly. Israel can defeat Egypt, but it requires either a perfectly executed surprise attack, a very strong Israeli army, Libya attacking Egypt simultaneously, or a nuclear attack. If Egypt has a nuclear installation present, it is advisable for the player to launch an airstrike on the installation to prevent the country from using nuclear weapons later on in a war.\n\nWhen the game begins, Egypt is usually securely at peace with Israel, but very occasionally, Egypt is about to go to war with Israel (relations are already Lamentable). Egypt's starting diplomacy with Israel often has a substantial impact on how a given game is likely to play out. The country's diplomatic relations with Libya also play a key factor in its survival in the game, as they almost always declare war on each other.\n\nIran does not share a border with Israel. The country is hostile to Iraq and the two almost always end up at war with each other. The main issue is in ensuring that Iran does not trigger a global nuclear war. Generally, it is best to destabilise Iran into collapsing, since this permits Iraq to threaten some of the countries which share a border with Israel.\n\nIraq is a relatively stable country with a moderate military. While the country does not share a border with Israel, it is bordered by Jordan, Syria, and Iran. In almost every game, Iraq will end up at war with Iran. In other situations, however, Syria and Jordan become targeted first. An Iraqi war with Jordan is usually over in less than a turn, with Iraq conquering Jordan (unless Iraq is preoccupied with another war with Iran or Syria). In a match-up with Syria, Iraq tends to even out, leading to multiple turns of both nations at war. Against Iran, the same situation happens leading to multiple turns of war, usually ending in an Iranian victory unless Iraq orders a nuclear attack. Due to Iraq's position neighbouring two of Israel's border nations, Iraq can be a useful ally in defeating Syria and Jordan if used correctly. However, the player must take measures to topple the Iraqi government if the country has a nuclear installation present, as Iraq may trigger a nuclear holocaust during war and end the game.\n\nJordan is bordered by Israel, Syria, and Iraq. It is diplomatically stable and takes a considerable number of turns of destabilisation to topple. Militarily, Jordan is a pushover, having a very small army, although exceptionally with a very large air force. Jordan very occasionally attacks Israel if the latter is already committed to a long war with another country (which is to say, Egypt or Syria, since no other neighbour can maintain a long war). It can also conquer Israel if the player has only one brigade deployed in a war with it. Apart from that, Jordan is passive and is usually gobbled up by Syria or Iraq.\n\nLebanon, which borders Israel and Syria, is highly unstable and will collapse on its own accord if another country does not invade it first; in fact, Lebanon will collapse by itself even if the player is always trying to disrupt the insurgency and support the government. Rarely declaring war on bordering countries, Lebanon is also militarily the weakest country; Israel can conquer it using a single brigade. Lebanon, however, is sometimes capable of conquering Israel or Syria if those countries are preoccupied in other wars or do not properly station brigades within their borders.\n\nLibya is stable, but militarily weak. Bordered only by Egypt, Libya almost always declares war on Egypt in the game (and vice versa). Egypt always wins immediately, unless already at war with Israel, in which case Libya always wins (although Egypt very occasionally survives one turn). If Egypt is not actually at war with Israel, but Israel has fully mobilized on the Egyptian border and so Egypt has likewise done so, the Libyan/Egyptian conflict can be quite prolonged, but Egypt usually still wins (and has not taken too many losses, since it only has one brigade in combat). Libya is capable of setting up a nuclear installation, but almost never uses nuclear warheads when at war with Egypt.\n\nSyria is a relatively politically stable country, bordered by Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq. Following Egypt, it is the country with the second-largest army. Trying to destabilise Syria politically would take many turns and generally will not be effective unless it is at war. When the game starts, relations between Israel and Syria vary from Favourable to Indifferent; in some cases, diplomatic aggression is displayed on Syria's part. Israel can usually defeat Syria, but it is a rather well-balanced match-up that can go either way. Like Egypt, Syria is capable of developing nuclear arms and will often use them at war; thus, the player should launch an airstrike to destroy the nuclear installation - even if relations are friendly.\n\nAt the end of the game, the player is given an analysis score based on their performance. The analysis page indicates the player's duration as Prime Minister, the number of states under Israeli control, the amount of violence committed by the player, the level of relations with the USA, the player's prestige level and leadership style.\n\nIn a 1994 survey of war games, \"Computer Gaming World\" gave \"Conflict\" three stars out of five, stating that it was \"Quick and fun to play\" but not compatible with faster computers. (It can be run today using DOSBox.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2040308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2040308", "title": "Danger zone (food safety)", "text": "Danger zone (food safety)\n\nThe temperature range in which food-borne bacteria can grow is known as the danger zone. Food safety agencies, such as the United States' Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), define the danger zone as roughly . The FSIS stipulates that potentially hazardous food should not be stored at temperatures in this range in order to prevent foodborne illness (for example, a refrigerator's temperature must be kept below ), and that food that remains in this zone for more than two hours should not be consumed. Foodborne microorganisms grow much faster in the middle of the zone, at temperatures between .\n\nFood-borne bacteria, in large enough numbers, may cause food poisoning, symptoms similar to gastroenteritis or \"stomach flu\" (a misnomer, as true influenza primarily affects the respiratory system). Some of the symptoms include stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever. Food-borne illness becomes more dangerous in certain populations, such as people with weakened immune systems, young children, the elderly, and pregnant women. In Canada, there are approximately 11 million cases of food-borne disease per year. These symptoms can begin as early as shortly after and as late as weeks after consumption of the contaminated food.\n\nTime and temperature control plays a critical role in food safety. To prevent time-temperature abuse, the amount of time food spends in the danger zone must be minimized. A logarithmic relationship exists between microbial cell death and temperature: a significantly large number of cells may survive slightly lower temperatures. In addition to reducing the time spent in the danger zone, foods should be moved through the danger zone as few times as possible when reheating or cooling.\n\nFoods that are potentially hazardous inside the danger zone:\n\nAccording to Bryan (2004), a more complex, but more comprehensive picture of food safety hazards can be given by full consideration of the many factors involved. He advocates seeing the danger zone as \"a series of ranges that represent different degrees of hazards and risks.\" He presents the danger zone in a chart of time versus temperature as having a zone of high danger in which foods are at temperatures between 30C and 45C for several hours, surrounded by two zones of lesser danger involving exposure at lower temperatures for longer periods of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "24202933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24202933", "title": "Dayak Unity Party", "text": "Dayak Unity Party\n\nThe Dayak Unity Party (, PPD) was a political party in Indonesia. Formed to represent 'primordial' interests of the Dayak people, the party was one few political parties in Indonesia at the time which was formed along ethnic lines. Oevaang Oeray, the first governor of West Kalimantan and one of the founders of the PPD, was a prominent leader of the party.\n\nOn October 30, 1945, the association Daya in Action had been formed in Putussibau. Many of the founders of the movement were teachers, and its leader F.C. Palaunsoeka was a schoolteacher himself. The Javanese pastor A. Adikardjana played an important role in the foundation of the movement. A year after its foundation, the association evolved into the PPD. In October 1946 the Netherlands Indies Civil Administration (NICA) appointed seven PPD members to the West Kalimantan Council (which had 40 seats in total). Half of the members of the administrative board of the West Kalimantan Special Region were from the PPD; Oevaang Oeray, Lim Bak Meng (a Catholic Chinese) and A.F. Korak.\n\nAt the time, the PPD took an ambivalent position towards the Dutch. It sought cooperation with NICA in order to strengthen its positions, but did at the same time use opportunities to criticize Dutch 'interference' in Dayak affairs.\n\nIn the 1955 parliamentary election, PPD got 146,054 votes (0.4% of the nationwide vote), and got one seat in the People's Representative Council from West Kalimantan. The party obtained 33.1% of the votes in West Kalimantan, becoming the second largest party in the area (after Masjumi). In South Kalimantan however, the party only got 1.5% of the popular vote (in the Dayak-dominated Central Kalimantan areas the party received 6.2% of the votes). In the election to the West Kalimantan provincial council in the same year, the party won nine out of 29 seats.\n\nIn 1959 President Sukarno issued a ban on ethnic political parties, and the PPD was dissolved after being banned. Some PPD politicians continued their careers in other parties after the ban. Oevaang Oerey joined the Indonesian Party (\"Partindo\"), whilst some others joined the Catholic Party.\n"}
{"id": "25012952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012952", "title": "Defamation of religion and the United Nations", "text": "Defamation of religion and the United Nations\n\nDefamation of religion is an issue that was repeatedly addressed by some member states of the United Nations (UN) from 1999 until 2010. Several non-binding resolutions were voted on and accepted by the UN condemning \"defamation of religion\". The motions, sponsored on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), now known as the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, sought to prohibit expression that would \"fuel discrimination, extremism and misperception leading to polarization and fragmentation with dangerous unintended and unforeseen consequences\". Religious groups, human rights activists, free-speech activists, and several countries in the West condemned the resolutions arguing they amounted to an international blasphemy law. Critics of the resolutions including human rights groups argued that they were used to politically strengthen domestic anti-blasphemy and religious defamation laws, which are used to imprison journalists, students and other peaceful political dissidents.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2010 there was a split of opinions, with the Islamic bloc and much of the developing world supporting the defamation of religion resolutions, and mostly Western democracies opposing them. Support waned toward the end of the period due to increased opposition from the West along with lobbying by religious, free-speech, and human rights advocacy groups. Some countries in Africa, the Pacific, and Latin America switched from supporting to abstaining, or from abstaining to opposing. The final \"defamation of religions\" resolution in 2010, which also condemned \"the ban on the construction of minarets of mosques\" four months after a Swiss referendum introduced such a ban, passed with only 20 supporting, 17 opposing, and 8 abstaining.\n\nIn 2011, with falling support for the defamation of religion approach, the OIC changed their approach and introduced a new resolution on \"Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief\" that received unanimous support. \n\nThe UN Human Rights Committee followed this in July 2011 with the adoption of General Comment 34 on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) 1976 that binds signatory countries. Concerning freedoms of opinion and expression, General Comment 34 made it clear that \"Prohibitions of displays of lack of respect for a religion or other belief system, \"including blasphemy laws\", are incompatible with the Covenant\". General Comment 34 makes it clear that countries with blasphemy laws in any form that have signed the ICCPR are in breach of their obligations under the ICCPR.\n\nDefamation of religion resolutions were the subject of debate by the UN from 1999 until 2010. In 2011, members of the UN Human Rights Council found compromise and replaced the “defamation of religions” resolution with Resolution 16/18, which sought to protect people rather than religions and called upon states to take concrete steps to protect religious freedom, prohibit discrimination and hate crimes, and counter offensive expression through dialogue, education, and public debate rather than the criminalization of speech. Resolution 16/18 was supported by both OIC member countries and Western countries, including the United States.\n\nIn April 1999, at the urging of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), Pakistan brought before the United Nations Commission on Human Rights a resolution entitled \"Defamation of Islam\". The purpose of the resolution was to have the Commission stand up against what the OIC claimed was a campaign to defame Islam. Some members of the Commission proposed that the resolution be changed to embrace all religions. The Commission accepted the proposal, and changed the title of the resolution to \"Defamation of Religions\". The resolution urged \"all States, within their national legal framework, in conformity with international human rights instruments to take all appropriate measures to combat hatred, discrimination, intolerance and acts of violence, intimidation and coercion motivated by religious intolerance, including attacks on religious places, and to encourage understanding, tolerance and respect in matters relating to freedom of religion or belief\". The Commission adopted the resolution without a vote.\n\nIn 2000, the CHR adopted a similar resolution without a vote. In 2001, a vote on a resolution entitled \"Combating defamation of religions as a means to promote human rights, social harmony and religious and cultural diversity\" received 28 votes in favour, 15 against, and 9 abstentions. In 2002, a vote on a resolution entitled \"Combating defamation of religion\" received 30 votes in favour, 15 against, and 8 abstentions. In 2003, 2004, and 2005, by similar votes, the CHR approved resolutions entitled \"Combating defamation of religions\".\n\nIn 2005, Yemen introduced a resolution entitled \"Combating Defamation of Religions\" in the General Assembly (60th Session). 101 states voted in favour of the resolution, 53 voted against, and 20 abstained.\n\nIn March 2006, the CHR became the UNHRC. The UNHRC approved a resolution entitled \"Combating Defamation of Religions\", and submitted it to the General Assembly. In the General Assembly, 111 member states voted in favour of the resolution, 54 voted against, and 18 abstained. Russia and China, permanent members of the UN Security Councils, voted for the Resolution.\n\nOn 30 March 2007, the UNHRC adopted a resolution entitled \"Combating Defamation of Religions\". The resolution called upon the High Commissioner for Human Rights to report on the activities of her office with regard to combating defamation of religions.\n\nOn 30 March 2007, the UNHRC adopted a resolution entitled \"Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief\". The resolution called upon the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief to report on this issue for the Human Rights Council at its sixth session.\n\nIn August 2007, the Special Rapporteur, Doudou Diène, reported to the General Assembly \"on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance on the manifestations of defamation of religions and in particular on the serious implications of Islamophobia on the enjoyment of all rights\". Among other recommendations, the Special Rapporteur recommended that the Member States promote dialogue between cultures, civilizations, and religions taking into consideration:\n\nOn 4 September 2007, the High Commissioner for Human Rights reported to the UNHRC that \"Enhanced cooperation and stronger political will by Member States are essential for combating defamation of religions\".\n\nOn 18 December 2007, the General Assembly voted on another resolution entitled \"Combating Defamation of Religions\". 108 states voted in favour of the resolution; 51 voted against it; and 25 abstained. The resolution required the Secretary General to report to the sixty-third session of the General Assembly on the implementation of the resolution, and to have regard for \"the possible correlation between defamation of religions and the upsurge in incitement, intolerance and hatred in many parts of the world\".\n\nOn 27 March 2008, the UNHRC passed another resolution about the defamation of religion. The resolution :\n\n21 members were in favour of the resolution; 10 were opposed; 14 abstained.\n\nThe High Commissioner presented her report about defamation of, and contempt for, religions on 5 September 2008. She proposed the holding of a consultation with experts from 2 to 3 October 2008 in Geneva about the permissible limitations to freedom of expression in accordance with international human rights law. In another report, dated 12 September 2008, the High Commissioner noted that different countries have different notions of what \"defamation of religion\" means.\n\nGithu Muigai, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, addressed the UNHRC on 19 September 2008. He delivered the report prepared by Doudou Diène. The report called on Member States to shift the present discussion in international fora from the idea of \"defamation of religions\" to the legal concept: \"incitement to national, racial or religious hatred,\" which is grounded on international legal instruments.\n\nOn 24 November 2008, during the Sixty-third Session, the General Assembly's Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian & Cultural) approved a resolution entitled \"Combating defamation of religions\". The resolution requests \"the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including on the possible correlation between defamation of religions and the upsurge in incitement, intolerance and hatred in many parts of the world, to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session\". 85 states voted in favour of the resolution; 50 states voted against the resolution; 42 states abstained.\n\nIn February 2009, Zamir Akram, permanent representative of Pakistan to the United Nations Office at Geneva, in a meeting of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, commented on the \"defamation of religion\". He said \"there was an impression that Pakistan was trying to put in place an international anti-defamation provision in the context of the Durban Review Conference\". Akram said the impression \"was totally incorrect\". Akram's delegation said:\nIn advance of 26 March 2009, more than 200 civil society organizations from 46 countries, including Muslim, Christian, Jewish, secular, Humanist and atheist groups, urged the UNHRC by a joint petition to reject any resolution against the defamation of religion.\n\nOn 26 March 2009, the UNHRC passed a resolution, proposed by Pakistan, which condemned the \"defamation of religion\" as a human rights violation by a vote of 23–11, with 13 abstentions. The resolution:\n\nSupporters of the resolution argued that the resolution is necessary to prevent the defamation of Islam while opponents argued that such a resolution was an attempt to bring to the international body the anti-defamation laws prevalent in some Muslim countries.\n\nOn 1 July 2009, Githu Muigai, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, submitted to the UNHRC the report requested by it on 26 March 2009. The report \"reiterates the recommendation of his predecessor to encourage a shift away from the sociological concept of the defamation of religions towards the legal norm of non-incitement to national, racial or religious hatred\".\n\nOn 31 July 2009, the Secretary General submitted to the General Assembly the report that it requested in November 2008. The Secretary General noted, \"The Special Rapporteurs called for anchoring the debate in the existing international legal framework provided by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights – more specifically its articles 19 and 20.\" The Secretary General concluded, \"In order to tackle the root causes of intolerance, a much broader set of policy measures needs to be addressed covering the areas of intercultural dialogue as well as education for tolerance and diversity.\"\n\nOn 30 September 2009, at the UNHRC's twelfth session, the United States and Egypt introduced a resolution which condemned \"inter alia\" \"racial and religious stereotyping\". The European Union's representative, Jean-Baptiste Mattei (France), said the European Union \"rejected and would continue to reject the concept of defamation of religions\". He said, \"Human rights laws did not and should not protect belief systems.\" The OIC's representative on the UNHRC, Zamir Akram (Pakistan), said, \"Negative stereotyping or defamation of religions was a modern expression of religious hatred and xenophobia.\" Carlos Portales (Chile) observed, \"The concept of the defamation of religion took them in an area that could lead to the actual prohibition of opinions.\" The UNHRC adopted the resolution without a vote.\n\nIn Geneva, from 19 to 30 October 2009, the Ad Hoc Committee of the Human Rights Council on the Elaboration of Complementary Standards met to update the measures for combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, and related intolerance that the Durban I conference had formulated. The committee achieved little because of conflict over a variety of issues including \"defamation of religion\". The United States said that defamation of religion is “a fundamentally flawed concept”. Sweden, for the European Union, argued that international human rights law protects individuals, not institutions or religions. France insisted that the UN must not afford legal protection to systems of belief. Syria criticized the \"typical and expected Western silence\" on \"acts of religious discrimination\". Syria said \"in real terms defamation means targeting Muslims\".\n\nZamir Akram (Pakistan) wrote to the Ad Hoc Committee on 29 October 2009 to explain why the OIC would not abandon the idea of defamation of religion. Akram's letter states:\n\nThe letter says defamation of religion has been \"wrongly linked with malafide intentions to its perceived clash with\" the freedom of opinion and expression. The letter declares:\nIn New York, on 29 October 2009, the UN's Third Committee (Social, Humanitarian & Cultural) approved a draft resolution entitled \"Combating defamation of religions\" by a vote which had 81 for, 55 against, and 43 abstaining.\n\nOn 18 December 2009, the General Assembly approved a resolution deploring the defamation of religions by a vote of 80 nations in favour and 61 against with 42 abstentions.\n\nIn March 2010, Pakistan again brought forward a resolution entitled \"Combating defamation of religions\" on behalf of the OIC.\n\nThe resolution received much criticism. French ambassador Jean-Baptiste Mattei, speaking on behalf of the European Union, argued that the \"concept of defamation should not fall under the remit of human rights because it conflicted with the right to freedom of expression\". Eileen Donahoe, the US ambassador, also rejected the resolution. She said, \"We cannot agree that prohibiting speech is the way to promote tolerance, because we continue to see the 'defamation of religions' concept used to justify censorship, criminalisation, and in some cases violent assaults and deaths of political, racial, and religious minorities around the world.\"\n\nThe UNHRC passed the resolution on 25 March 2010 with 20 members voting in favour; 17 members voting against; 8 abstaining; and 2 absent.\n\nIn early 2011, with declining support for the defamation of religion approach and at the time of the Arab Spring, which was in part due to a lack of freedom of speech, political freedoms, poor living conditions, corruption, and rising food prices, there was a real possibility that another resolution on the defamation of religion would be defeated. The OIC shifted position and opted to pusue an approach that would gain the support from both OIC and Western countries. On March 24, 2011, the UN Human Rights Council in a very significant move shifted from protecting beliefs to the protection of believers with the unanimous adoption without a vote of Resolution 16/18 introduced by Pakistan.\n\nAmong its many specific points, Resolution 16/18 on Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence, and violence against persons based on religion or belief, highlights barriers to religiously tolerant societies and provides recommendations on how these barriers can be overcome. The resolution calls upon all member states to foster religious freedom and pluralism, to ensure religious minorities are properly represented, and to consider adopting measures to criminalize incitement to imminent violence based on religion or belief. Other recommendations include creating government programs to promote inter-religious tolerance and dialogue, training government employees to be sensitive toward religious sensitivities, and engaging in outreach initiatives.\n\nAt a meeting on July 15, 2011, hosted by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation at the OIC/IRCICA premises in the historic Yildiz Palace in Istanbul and co-chaired by the OIC Secretary-General Prof. Ekmeleddin Ihsanogl, U.S. Secretary of State Mrs. Hillary Rodham Clinton and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, together with foreign ministers and officials from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Senegal, Sudan, United Kingdom, the Vatican (Holy See), UN OHCHR, Arab League, African Union, gave a united impetus to the implementation of UN Human Rights Council Resolution 16/18 with the release of a Joint Statement. The text includes the following: \n\nIn July, 2011, the UN Human Rights Committee adopted a 52-paragraph statement, General Comment 34 on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) 1976, concerning freedoms of opinion and expression. Paragraph 48 states: \nArticle 20, paragraph 2 of the Covenant states: Any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law.\n\nThe ICCPR binds all signatory countries. Consequently, countries with blasphemy laws in any form that have signed the ICCPR are in breach of their obligations under the ICCPR.\n\nOn 19 December 2011, the UN General Assembly endorsed Human Rights Council Resolution 16/18 with the adoption of Resolution 66/167. The resolution was sponsored by the OIC after consultations with the United States and the European Union and co-sponsored by Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Uruguay, Thailand and the Dominican Republic. With longer preambular statements, Resolution 66/167 repeats the language and substantive paragraphs of Resolution 16/18.\n\nAt the nineteenth session of the Human Rights Council, on the 22 March 2012, the Human Rights Council reaffirmed Resolution 16/18 with the unanimous adoption of Resolution 19/8. The General Assembly followed on the 20 December 2012 with the adoption of Resolution 67/178.\n\nAt the twenty-second session of the Human Rights Council on 22 March 2013, the Human Rights Council again reaffirmed Resolution 16/18 and Resolution 19/8 with the unanimous adoption of Resolution 22/31.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44006608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006608", "title": "Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund", "text": "Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund\n\nThe Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund (DREDF), located in Berkeley, California and Washington, DC, USA is a national cross-disability civil rights law and policy center directed by individuals with disabilities and parents who have children with disabilities. Founded in 1979, DREDF advances the civil and human rights of people with disabilities through legal advocacy, training, education, and public policy and legislative development.The Berkeley office is located in the Ed Roberts Campus.\n\nAn outgrowth of the Independent Living Movement, which had deep roots in Berkeley, California, DREDF was the first national, cross-disability civil rights organization in the United States to be founded, managed, and directed by an alliance of people with disabilities and parents of children with disabilities. The organization derived its name from other historical civil rights groups such as the Women’s Legal Defense Fund, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund (LDF), and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF).\n\nDREDF challenges discrimination, prejudice and social exclusion of people with disabilities. Its early efforts focused on:\n\nAfter a decade-long record of advocacy training, and legislative, legal, and policy victories, DREDF was uniquely situated to play a significant role in the enactment of the landmark civil rights law, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). DREDF's governmental affairs director, Patrisha Wright, known as \"The General,\" led the national coalition advocating for enactment of the proposed law, and Arlene Mayerson, DREDF's legal director, developed briefing materials, legal memoranda, and legal opinions about the impact of proposed legislation at the request of members of Congress. Policy analyst, Marilyn Golden led community organizing efforts. Senator Tom Harkin, was lead sponsor of the ADA.\n\nFollowing passage of the ADA, DREDF focused on preserving the new law and shaping its implementation by providing nationwide training and technical assistance and by writing and publishing a legal series that presented ADA legislative history and commentary. In a series of cases, DREDF wins the right of children with disabilities requiring healthcare assistance (such as diabetes and asthma) to receive such assistance in pre-school and recreational settings. In an effort to promote community integration, DREDF works with community and legal groups to challenge the continued institutionalization of disabled residents in San Francisco's Laguna Honda Hospital and to create community-based alternatives. Other ADA litigation also opens doors to movie theaters, hotels, banking services, and gas stations. DREDF represents Members of Congress is a trilogy of cases involving the definition of disability under the ADA. Continuing its commitment to IDEA implementation, DREDF achieves a series of litigation victories that establish a national precedent for full inclusion of children with disabilities in regular classes in \"Holland v. Sacramento City School District\" and establishes educational rights for children with disabilities in East Palo Alto, California. As interest in disability rights gains international momentum, disability rights leaders from 17 countries invite legal and policy staff to consult and collaborate on strategies for advancing policy in their countries.\n\nDREDF organizes \"From Principles to Practice,\" the first international disability right law symposium to be held in the United States, bringing together 150 attorneys and legal advocates from 57 countries. Transnational Publishers releases \"Disability Rights Law and Policy: International and National Perspectives\", edited by Silvia Yee, Esq. and Mary Lou Breslin. As traditional barriers to equal participation for people with disabilities begin to bend to the effect of the ADA, DREDF identifies and focuses attention on emerging challenges including thwarting legislative attempts to legalize assisted suicide and increasing access to healthcare services and improving healthcare outcomes. DREDF conducts healthcare research and publishes outcomes in peer-reviewed journals. As the US House and Senate consider enactment of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), DREDF advocates for enhanced protections and rights for people with disabilities. Following enactment of the ACA, DREDF advocates for ADA implementation in healthcare programs and services, drafts comments with colleagues on proposed regulations that create accessible medical equipment standards, and collaborates with senior groups as the ACA tests models that combine clinical care and long-term services and supports for low-income people with disabilities and seniors.\nLitigation against Netflix results in a landmark settlement that requires captioning for all streaming media the company offers, thus marking progress on applying the ADA to Internet-only businesses. Other litigation succeeds in requiring the US Social Security Administration to provide all notices to beneficiaries in alternative formats.\n\n"}
{"id": "43674954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43674954", "title": "Domain Based Security", "text": "Domain Based Security\n\n\"Domain Based Security\", abbreviated to \"DBSy\", is a model-based approach to help analyse information security risks in a business context and provide a clear and direct mapping between the risks and the security controls needed to manage them. A variant of the approach is used by the UK government's HMG Infosec Standard No.1 technical risk-assessment method. DBSy is a registered trade mark of QinetiQ Ltd.\n\nDBSy was developed in the late 1990s by the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (DERA). It is a model-based approach to information assurance that describes the requirements for security in an organisation, taking account of the business that needs to be supported. The model is based around the concept of a security domain, which represents a logical place where people work with information using a computer system, and which has connections with other security domains where this is necessary to support business activity. Hence the focus is on the information that needs protection, the people that work with it and the people they exchange information with. The model can also describe the physical environments where people work and the system boundaries where major system security measures are placed. A systematic method is then applied to the model to identify and describe the risks to which valuable information assets are exposed and specify security measures that are effective in managing the risks.\n\nDBSy has its origins in the late 1990s, having been developed by the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (DERA) for the Ministry of Defence (MOD). Initially called the Domain Based Approach, it was developed alongside Purple Penelope to support the MOD's increasing need for interconnections between systems operating at different security levels \nIt was recognised that the risks associated with such connections were directly related to the nature of the information exchange that was needed and that an effective model for understanding and managing the risks would need to take account of the business needs for information sharing. It was also recognised that the controlled release of information from a system handling secret information (sometimes referred to at the time as 'down grading' or 'sanitisation') was not adequately described by any of the existing models of Information security (notably Bell-LaPadula, Biba and the associated information flow models).\n\nInformation flow models were found to be unhelpful in understanding the risks when information has to be shared with people and systems that are not entirely trusted. An effective model for understanding and managing the risks would need to take account of the business needs for exchanging information both within and outside an organisation \n\nThe modelling technique was applied to some major projects for the MOD and as a result of this experience the graphical modelling techniques were revised and a rigorous risk assessment method, based on the concepts of compromise paths was developed. An approach to IT security documentation through a project lifecycle was also created \nDomain Based Security conferences were held at QinetiQ Malvern in June 2005 and June 2006, promoting discussion of how it could be more widely used, both for defence\n\nand commercial systems\n\nA variant of the DBSy method was subsequently developed and incorporated into the UK government's HMG Infosec Standard No.1 Technical Risk Assessment method, the standard method to be used for security risk assessments for all government Information Technology systems.\n\nThe DBSy approach uses simple models to represent the requirements for security in an organisation using two different but related viewpoints: the Infosec Business Model represents the security aspects of the business, while the Infosec Infrastructure Model represents the logical provision of strong boundaries that enforce separation. When combined, they make up an Infosec Architecture Model\nThis model forms the basis for conducting a systematic and rigorous risk assessment.\n\nThe Infosec business model defines security domains and the connections between them. The model specifies the limits of what information can be processed and exchanged between security domains and so forms the set of security requirements for the business. In particular, connections that are not explicitly modelled are not permitted and are required not to occur. A security domain is characterised by a set of information assets, which may be valuable to the organisation, as well as the people that work with the information and the applications and services that act on their behalf. Connections between domains are characterised by the nature of the interaction that is required (such as interpersonal messages, or shared access to a database) and the sensitivity and integrity requirements of the information exchange. The model can also represent the kinds of physical environment from which a domain can be accessed.\n\nThe Infosec infrastructure model defines islands of computing infrastructure that are required to be logically separate, so that information cannot be exchanged between them except at identifiable and manageable points of connection, referred to as causeways. An island is characterised by the strength of separation between it and any other islands and by the people who manage its computing infrastructure.\n\nAn Infosec architecture model combines the business and infrastructure views, by showing which security domains are supported by which islands of infrastructure. Where there are connections between security domains that are hosted on different islands, the connections must be supported by an appropriate causeway.\n\nThe DBSy method uses a rational risk framework for describing the risks to which some information assets are exposed. Similar kinds of assets are grouped together as a focus of interest, and the risk assessment process is applied to each focus of interest in turn.\n\nThe key factors determining the risk to a particular focus of interest are:\n\nThis risk framework is applied in a systematic fashion to an organisation-specific Infosec architecture model, representing the security-relevant features of an organisation's business and IT systems. Through this process a set of Compromise Paths can be systematically described and the relative effectiveness of different countermeasures can be assessed \n\nDBSy differs from other IT risk management methods in that its primary focus is on people, the business drivers of an organisation and the way the business works, rather than on technical security measures. The analyst is required to systematically define the groups of people that pose a threat and the ways they might cause harm, providing a rigorous, business-oriented framework for the concepts of threat and vulnerability. The aim is to understand and analyse information security risks faced by an organisation, especially where the risks appear to conflict with needs for business efficiency across the organisation or in dealings with customers and business partners.\n"}
{"id": "29477660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29477660", "title": "Duties Beyond Borders", "text": "Duties Beyond Borders\n\nDuties Beyond Borders (full title: \"Duties Beyond Borders: On the Limits and Possibilities of Ethical International Politics\") is a book by Stanley Hoffmann published in 1981 which focuses on the application of ethical principles to international relations. The book won the \"Le Prix Adolphe Bentinck\" for 1982 for \"the book which most contributes to the unity and cause of peace in Europe\". The book is based upon a series of lectures which Hoffmann gave at Syracuse University between February and April 1980.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30560539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30560539", "title": "EastWest Institute", "text": "EastWest Institute\n\nThe EastWest Institute (EWI), originally known as the Institute for East-West Security Studies, is an international not-for-profit, non-partisan \"think and do\" tank focusing on international conflict resolution through a variety of means, including track 2 diplomacy and track 1.5 diplomacy (conducted with the direct involvement of official actors), hosting international conferences, and authoring publications on international security issues. The organization employs networks in political, military, and business establishments in the United States, Europe, and the former Soviet Union.\n\nEWI has initiatives focused on a number of different areas including cybersecurity, preventive diplomacy, strategic trust-building (which encompasses Russia-United States relations and China-United States Relations), Economic Security, and Regional Security (focusing on specific areas such as Southwest Asia).\n\nIn addition to its New York City Headquarters, EWI has offices in Brussels, Belgium, and Moscow, Russia.\n\nThe Institute for East-West Security Studies was founded in 1980, when then CEO John Edwin Mroz and Ira D. Wallach set out to study means of addressing areas of political dispute across the Iron Curtain.\n\nIn 1984, EWI hosted the first track 2 military-to-military discussions between the NATO and Warsaw Pact countries.These talks, focusing heavily on the establishment of confidence-building measures (CBMs) between the two parties, ultimately resulted in an agreement requiring each side to alert the other of troop movements.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall and the eruption of conflicts in Southeastern Europe, EWI worked to foster economic stability in the region, encouraging cross-border cooperation and training leaders for democratic states. In the 2000s (decade), EWI’s operations expanded geographically to China, Southwest Asia and the Middle East, focusing on issues like cybersecurity, economic security, and countering violent extremism.\n\nIn May 2009, EWI released its Joint Threat Assessment on Iran, produced by senior U.S. and Russian experts convened by the Institute. The assessment, which concluded that the planned system would not protect against an Iranian nuclear threat, helped inform the Obama administration's decision to scrap the ballistic missile defense plan proposed by the Bush administration and replace it with a plan of its own.\n\nIn 2016, the Institute helped set up an information portal which allows operators of critical infrastructure to share security information internationally.\n\nEWI's Strategic Trust-building Initiative includes its work with Russia, China, and the United States. Through its work with Russia, EWI has sought to \"build a sustainable relationship of trust between Russia, its G-8 partners, and the world’s new rising powers.\" This program was responsible for establishing the 2009 Joint Threat Assessment on Iran. The China program, which was initiated in 2006, seeks to foster China's integration into the international sphere as a productive partner. An example of EWI's China work is the establishment of annual three-party talks between Republican Party, Democratic Party, and Chinese Communist Party leaders.\n\nThe Strategic Trust-building Initiative also incorporates EWI's work in Weapons of Mass Destruction issues. The WMD program, which began in 2006, aims to reduce political obstacles to the elimination of the threat of nuclear weapons. EWI organized a series of events and meetings in 2007 and 2008 to address stalled arms discussions in the international community.\n\nThis program addresses specific regional problems requiring the attention of the international community. Current issues include: security and stability in Afghanistan & Southwest Asia, and Euro-Atlantic security. Regional Security is directly involved with the Parliamentarians Network for Conflict Prevention—a network, founded by EWI in October 2008, that has since grown to include 150 parliamentarians from more than 50 countries. Members of the network work to translate ideas into policy as well as advocate for a greater allocation of resources for preventive action.\n\nIn 2010, EWI created the Amu Darya Basin Network, which links experts, researchers and policy makers from Central Asia, Afghanistan and Europe to create a place for key stakeholders to discuss trans-boundary water issues, forge agreements and share knowledge. The Amu Darya Basin Network highlights the need for local ownership and input in the management of shared waters, and for engagement in the region in more concrete ways.\n\nIn addition, the regional security program initiated the Abu Dhabi Process, a set of meetings focused on regional cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The process emphasised that there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan and has seen meeting take place in Abu Dhabi, Kabul and Islamabad among places.\n\nEWI's Economic Security Initiative, launched in fall 2011, focuses on increasing resilience and response capabilities in regions threatened by water, food and energy scarcity. This program works with global investors to address dilemmas of growth and sustainability, and also focuses on the security of the digital economy. An example of this work includes the annual Worldwide Security Conference, first held in 2003, which assembles experts from governments, the private sector, NGOs, and academia to explore issues such as countering violent extremism, securing infrastructure, and energy security.\n\nThe Worldwide Cybersecurity Initiative is a part of the ESI. It aims to reduce vulnerabilities in governmental and private cybersecurity policies by developing consensus proposals for new agreements and policy reform. The institute's chief method of achieving this goal has been the hosting of the Worldwide Cybersecurity Summit, an annual meeting of governmental and corporate actors in the field, first held in May 2010 at Dallas, Texas, which established policy recommendations for securing international cyber infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "208041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208041", "title": "Franglais", "text": "Franglais\n\nFranglais (; also Frenglish ) is a French portmanteau word referring initially to the pretentious overuse of English words by Francophones, and subsequently to the macaronic mixture of the French () and English () languages.\n\nThe term \"franglais\" is first attested in France in 1959, but was popularised by the academic, novelist and critic René Étiemble in his denunciation of the overuse of English terms in French, \"Parlez-vous franglais?\", published in 1964.\n\nIn English, \"Franglais\" means a mangled combination of English and French, produced either by poor knowledge of one or the other language, native bilingualism, or humorous intent. Franglais usually consists of either filling in gaps in one's knowledge of French with English words, using false friends with their incorrect meaning, or speaking French in such a manner that (although ostensibly \"French\") would be incomprehensible to a French speaker who does not also have a knowledge of English (for example, by using a literal translation of English idiomatic phrases).\n\nSome examples of Franglais are:\n\nFranglais may also mean a diplomatic compromise, such as the abbreviation \"UTC\" for Coordinated Universal Time.\n\nChaucer's Prioress knew nothing of the French of Paris, but only that of Stratford-atte-Bow ('Cockney French'). Similar mixtures occur in the later stages of Law French, such as the famous defendant who \"ject un brickbat a le dit Justice, que narrowly mist\" (\"threw a at the said Justice, which narrowly missed\"). Another example in English literature is found in \"Henry V\" by William Shakespeare. A French princess is trying to learn English, but unfortunately, \"foot\" as pronounced by her maid sounds too much like (vulgar French for 'semen', or 'to have sexual intercourse' when used as a verb) and \"gown\" like (French for 'cunt', also used to mean 'idiot'). She decides English is too obscene a language. \nA literary example of the delight in occurs in Robert Surtees' \"Jorrocks' Jaunts and Jollities\":\n\nThe 19th-century American writer Mark Twain, in \"Innocents Abroad\", included the following letter to a Parisian landlord:\nAccording to Chapman Pincher, one of Winston Churchill's family recounted how the latter, in response to obstinacy from General de Gaulle in a meeting during de Gaulle's wartime exile in London, told him, \"Si vous m’opposerez je vous get riderai!\"\n\nThe humourist Miles Kington wrote a regular column \"Let's Parler Franglais\" which, for a number of years starting in the late 1970s, appeared in the British magazine \"Punch\". These columns were collected into a series of books: \"Let's Parler Franglais\", \"Let's Parler Franglais Again!\", \"Parlez-vous Franglais?\", \"Let's Parler Franglais One More Temps\", \"The Franglais Lieutenant's Woman and Other Literary Masterpieces\". \n\nA somewhat different tack was taken in Luis van Rooten's \"Mots d'Heures: Gousses, Rames: The D'Antin Manuscript\". Here, English nursery rhymes are written with nonsensical French phrases meant to recall the sounds of the English words, and the resulting French texts are presented as a historical manuscript and given a pseudo-learned commentary. \n\nAnother classic is Jean Loup Chiflet's \"Sky My Husband! Ciel Mon Mari!\" which is a literal translation of French into English. However, in this context, the correct translation of is 'heavens...!'\n\nIn Monty Python's 1975 movie \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\", the French castle guard (John Cleese) orders, when King Arthur (Graham Chapman) doesn't want to go away, his fellow guards to \"Fetchez la vache.\". The other French guards respond with \" and he repeats \"Fetchez la vache!\"\". The guards finally get it: fetch ('the cow'), which they then catapult at the Britons.\n\nIn French, refers to the use of English words sometimes regarded as unwelcome imports or as bad slang. An example would be (also ), which is used in many French dialects and has no available synonym in those dialects; however Canadians would use ' ('the end of the week') instead, although in France refers to the end of the work week, i.e. Thursday and Friday. also refers to nouns created from Anglo-Saxon roots or from recent English loanwords (themselves not always Anglo-Saxon in origin), often by adding \"-ing\" at the end of a popular word—e.g., ('a car park or parking lot' is more properly ' in Canadian French, although means 'the action of parking or the state of being parked' in European French); ('a campsite'); and ('shampoo', but pronounced , not ), a term that has become standardized and has appeared on many French hair-care product labels since at least the 1990s. A few words that have entered use in French are derived from English roots but are not found at all in English, such as ('a makeover'), and ('a rugby player'). Others are based on mistaken ideas about English words, e.g.: \"un \" meaning 'a jog or a run' rather than 'a pediment'; meaning 'a tram', not 'a tram-track'; and , which is widely used by French speakers to mean 'a prostitute' rather than 'a female dog' or its more frequent English slang meaning of 'a disagreeable woman'. Still others are based on misapprehensions of English punctuation, e.g. (with the apostrophe in both singular and plural) meaning 'a lapel pin'; or word order, e.g. meaning 'a walkie-talkie' (hand-held, two-way radio). For those who do not speak English, such words may be believed to exist as such in English. However, in Canada, where both English and French are spoken, expressions such as and are not used.)\n\nSome examples of Franglais are in fact imagined or examples of words being adopted from one language into another in the opposite direction of what many people believe. People without linguistic training or who don't even bother to check in dictionaries tend to create and perpetuate such urban legends about Franglais. For example, many numismatists think that the French spelling of the English term piedfort is a result of an imagined reintroduction into French of an English misspelling. In fact, the spelling \"piéfort\" is found in French dictionaries as an alternative of and even as the only spelling given in the 1932-1935 edition of the Dictionnaire de l'Académie française. and the etymology derived by professional linguists and shown in these dictionaries shows the change in spelling happened within French. \n\nOwing to the worldwide popularity of the Internet, relatively new English words have been introduced into French (e.g. and , referring to either e-mail or an e-mail address). An equivalent for the English word \"e-mail\" derived from French roots was created in Quebec French and promoted by Quebec government: \"\" (from ), and this term is now widely used there. The Académie française has also suggested the use of the abbreviation (from ) as an analogy with the abbreviation for 'telephone', to be uniquely used in front of an e-mail address; however the term, which roughly approximates the English pronunciation of \"mail\", is now used more broadly in France than that prescribed usage. Another example from French is the word . The equivalent of the English verb \"to look at\" in French is but the noun \"a look\" (i.e. the way that something looks or is styled) has become in French, such that the sentence \"This Pepsi can has a new look\" in French would be \"\".\n\nAfter World War II, a backlash began in France over the increasing use of English there. \"Corruption of the national language\" was perceived by some to be tantamount to an attack on the identity of the country itself. During this period, ever greater imports of American products led to the increasingly widespread use of some English phrases in French. Measures taken to slow this trend included government censorship of comic strips and financial support for the French film and French-language dubbing industries. Despite public policies against the spread of English, the use of Franglais is increasing in both written and oral expression.\n\nIn recent years, English expressions are increasingly present in French mass media:\n\nMost telecommunication and Internet service providers use English and Franglais expressions in their product names and advertising campaigns. The leading operator, France Télécom, has dropped the accents in its corporate logo. In recent years, it has changed its product names with trendier expressions such as Business Talk, Live-Zoom, Family Talk. France Télécom's mobile telecommunications subsidiary Orange SA runs a franchise retail network called \"mobistores\". Its Internet subsidiary, formerly known as Wanadoo (inspired by the American slang expression \"wanna do\") provides a popular triple play service through its \"Livebox\" cable modem. The second-largest Internet service provider in France is Free, which offers its \"freebox\". Set-top boxes that are offered by many other providers are also following this trend (e.g. Neuf-box, Alice-box, etc.) and the word \"box\" by itself is gradually ending up referring to these set-top boxes.\n\nSNCF, the state-owned railway company, has recently introduced a customer fidelity program called S'Miles. Meanwhile, Air France has renamed its Fréquence Plus frequent flyer program to Flying Blue. The Paris transportation authority RATP has also recently introduced a contactless smartcard ticketing system (similar to the Oyster card in London) called NaviGO.\n\nPublic authorities such as the Académie française and the Conseil supérieur de la langue française generally propose alternative words for anglicisms. The acceptance of such words varies considerably; for example, and existed before the English words \"computer\" and \"software\" reached France, so they are accepted (even outside France in the case of ). On the other hand, failed to replace \"weekend\" or \"\" (the latter being in current usage in Canada). The word \"courriel\", equivalent of \"e-mail\", created and used in French-speaking Canada is increasingly coming into use in written European French. However, most French Internet users generally speak about \"mail\" without the prefix \"e-\". Note that English words are often shorter, and they are usually coined first (the French alternatives are generally thought of only after the original word has already been coined, and are then debated at length before coming into use). This is partly why they tend to stay in use.\n\nAlternative words proposed by the Académie française are sometimes poorly received by an aware (often technical) audience and unclear to a non-technical audience. The proposed terms may be ambiguous (often because they are artificially created based on phonetics, thus hiding their etymology) which results in nonsense (e.g. for CD-RW (literally 'rewritable CD-ROMs', despite \"ROM\" meaning 'read-only memory'). Some words are considered uncool (for example, adding the initial \"t-\" to \"chat\" to form (in accordance with French phonetics) or rendering \"DVD\" as (reproducing the French pronunciation of the letters in the initialism).\n\nThe use of English expressions is very common in the youth language, which combines them with wordplay. The letter \"j\" is thus sometimes humorously pronounced the English way in words such as ('youth'), rendered as /dʒœns/ and thus written , to refer to this trend.\n\nQuebec is the only French majority-monolingual province of Canada, and the only de jure (but not de facto) monolingual jurisdiction. New Brunswick is officially bilingual, and the other provinces, while mostly English-speaking, are not officially English-only.\n\nFranglais should not be confused with Québec French, which has a number of longstanding borrowings from English as the result of the historical coexistence of two linguistic communities, largely within Québec (and especially around Montreal). Likewise, Quebec English, the language spoken by the anglophone minority there, has borrowed many French words such as \"dépanneur\" ('convenience store'), \"autoroute\" ('highway'), \"stage\" ('internship'), \"métro\" ('subway'), \"circular\" ('flyer', from the word , a pamphlet that circulates), and many others . These are permanent and longstanding features of local usage, rather than the recent slangish improvisation by any given individual user or affinity group with poor knowledge of the other language.\n\nThese expressions have mainly become part of a common tongue born out of mutual concession to one another. In fact, the substantial bilingual community in and around Montreal will occasionally refer to Franglais, usually after it is pointed out by an observer that someone has used a variety of French and English words, expressions or propositions in the same sentence, a surprisingly common occurrence even in the educated register.\n\nFranglais can refer to the long-standing and stable mixes of English and French spoken in some towns, cities, and rural areas of other Canadian provinces; New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Manitoba, and Newfoundland. It is even used in the northern regions of Maine (U.S.) (see Chiac and Acadian French). This mix uses approximately equal proportions of each language (except in Newfoundland), although it is more likely to be understood by a francophone, since it usually uses English words in French pronunciation and grammar.\n\nFranglais is commonly spoken in French immersion schools in Ontario and Alberta as well as in DSFM (Division scolaire Franco-Manitobaine) schools in Manitoba, where most students speak either French or English as their first or preferred language, yet know school-related terms in French specifically (e.g. \"Let's go to la bibliothèque\", instead of \"Let's go to the library\"). As many French immersion classes and French schools have a strict \"French-only\" policy, such Franglais is used discreetly between students, or out of class.\n\nCanada's official bilingualism has also created new expressions in English, typically from bilingual product packaging. For example, many English Canadians think there is a type of cheese called \"old fort\".\n\nFranglais, in the sense of mistaken usage by second-language speakers, occurs across Canada. An example of an anglicism turned Franglais is the unintentional translation of English phrases into French by students unaware of the Canadian French term. For example, a hot dog is sometimes called \"un chien chaud\" when in fact the French term is simply . (However, the Quebec government has itself promoted using expressions such as for 'hot dog', and for 'hamburger', neither of which has gained widespread acceptance.) In some ways, confusion over which expression is more correct, and the emphasis many immersion schools place on eliminating anglicisms from students' vocabulary, has promoted the use of Franglais. Franglais can also slowly creep into use from mispronunciation and misspelling by many bilingual Canadians. Common mistakes that immersion or bilingual students propagate include incorrect inflection and stresses on syllables, incorrect doubling of consonants, strange vowel combinations in their spelling and using combinations of prefixes and suffixes from English.\n\nRecently, Canadian youth culture (especially in British Columbia and southeastern Ontario) purposely uses Franglais for its comical or euphemistic characteristics, for example, in replacing English swear words with French ones. Some anglophone Canadians euphemistically use the (i.e., religious words such as as expletives) rather than swearing in English.\n\nThere is a particular form of Franglish which consists in the adoption of English words with alternative meanings to their usage in actual English.\n\nThese are words like ('a scramble', 'a rush', 'a strong effort'), or ('a tan', 'the act of sunbathing'), made by adding the English ending \"-ing\" to a verb from French (e.g. 'to force' or 'to tan') to form a new noun. These are slang or informal at best, and not widely accepted.\n\nAnother type of false anglicism comes from the abbreviation of an English name made keeping only the first word (while the important word for English speakers is the last word, impossible to remove). For example, to designate a dress suit, the word is used by the French (and some other languages), borrowed ultimately English 'smoking jacket'. Yet the British use \"dinner jacket\" and Americans \"tuxedo\" (or the abbreviation \"tux\"); \"smoking\" does not exist in English other than as a form of the verb \"to smoke\", and as the gerund \"smoking\", referring to the act of smoking something or giving off smoke. Another example is the French term for 'clapperboard' as used in motion picture production.\n\nThey are either French constructions mimicking the English rules, or shifts of meaning affecting borrowed terms.\n\nCameroon has substantial English- and French-speaking populations as a legacy of its colonial past as British Southern Cameroons and French Cameroun. Despite linguistically segregated education since independence, many younger Cameroonians in urban centres have formed a version of Franglais/Franglish from English, French and Cameroonian Pidgin English known as Camfranglais or Frananglais. Many educational authorities disapprove of Frananglais in Cameroon and have banned it in their schools. Nevertheless, the youth-culture argot has gained in popularity and has a growing music scene.\n\nFranglais is also used in London, due to the number of native French speakers living there, from France, Africa, Southeast Asia, and the Caribbean.\n\nFranglais also occurs in other communities where imperfect English–French bilingualism is common. The United Nations Office at Geneva is so named in an imitation of the French , rather than the expected \"\"in\" Geneva\".\n\nAnother example is provided by the civil servants in European Union institutions (European Parliament, European Commission, European Court of Justice), based in bilingual Brussels (French and Flemish) and Luxembourg City (Luxembourgish and German). They often work in English, but are surrounded by a French-speaking environment, which influences their English (e.g. \"I'm a stagiaire at the Commission and I'm looking for another stage in a consultancy\", referring to internships).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55698821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55698821", "title": "Fung Wai-wah", "text": "Fung Wai-wah\n\nFung Wai-wah (; born 1960) is a Hong Kong educator, social worker and activist. He is the current president of the Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union (HKPTU), the largest teachers' union in the territory, and the former convenor of the Alliance for Universal Suffrage, a pro-democracy coalition on the issue of the 2017 and 2020 universal suffrage.\n\nFung had served as a social worker in the youth and community development service of Caritas Hong Kong before he began to teach social worker. He has taught at the City University of Hong Kong (CityU) since 1989 and has become the Senior Lecturer School of Continuing and Professional Education. \n\nHe has been member of the staff association of the CityU. In 2003, he formed a group called \"Save the College Action Group of CityU\" to protest against the university's decision to fire all the teaching staff and employees of the sub-degree programmes, as a result of the government's decision to cut the fundings to the sub-degree programmes. It lodged a complaint to the Panel on Education of the Legislative Council and successfully switched the operation mode of sub-degree programs from subsidised basis to a self-financing basis.\n\nHe has become an elected member of the CityU Council since 2006. In 2008, Fung protested to CityU Council chairman Leung Chun-ying over the reduction of the salaries of the Community College staffs with other staff association members. Despite Leung's promise to compensate the staffs, Leung refused to compensate when the college recorded financial surplus in the following years.\n\nHe joined the Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union (HKPTU), the largest teachers' union in the territory, also in 1989 and was invited by president Cheung Man-kwong to sit on the PTU executive committee after the success of the \"Save the College Action Group of CityU\" action group. In 2010, Fung succeeded Cheung to become the third president of the PTU.\n\nIn 2010, Fung was elected as the convenor of the Alliance for Universal Suffrage, a coalition consisting of eleven pro-democracy parties on the issue of the government's reform package on the 2012 elections of the Chief Executive and the Legislative Council to be the balanced force in the midst of the increasing differences and conflicts on the approaches on striving for universal suffrage between the moderate faction led by the Democratic Party and the radical faction League of Social Democrats (LSD). \n\nThe Alliance was considered as \"moderate\" and did not support the \"Five Constituencies Referendum\" launched by Civic Party and LSD. Fung later endorsed the Democrats' revised constitutional reform package and therefore was heavily criticised by the LSD chairman Wong Yuk-man. In 2013, Fung announced the Alliance \"will be indefinitely suspended\" in order to form a new body with other pan-democrats on the matter of full universal suffrage. \n\nFung initially intended to run in the 2012 Legislative Council election in the Education functional constituency after incumbent Cheung Man-kwong announced his retirement from the seat and candidacy in Kowloon West geographical constituency, but later withdraw his candidacy citing his health problem. The seat was taken up by another PTU executive committee member Ip Kin-yuen as a result.\n\nFung has been a member of the Election Committee which elects the Chief Executive since 2006. In 2015, he was appointed member of the Education Commission.\n"}
{"id": "27297063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27297063", "title": "GOProud", "text": "GOProud\n\nGOProud was an American tax exempt 527 organization supported by conservative gay men, lesbians, and their allies. GOProud advocated for free markets, limited government, and a respect for individual rights and worked at the federal and state levels to build strong coalitions of conservative and libertarian activists, organizations and policy makers to advance their shared values and beliefs.\n\nGOProud was founded by Christopher R. Barron and Jimmy LaSalvia, two former Log Cabin Republican staffers who expressed dissatisfaction at that organization's generally centrist political positions. GOProud subsequently co-sponsored the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) and added political commentator/author Ann Coulter, political commentator/strategist Margaret Hoover, Americans for Tax Reform President Grover Norquist, new media specialist Liz Mair, political analyst Lisa De Pasquale, and political communications consultant Chuck Muth.\n\nIn June 2014, it was reported that GOProud had ceased operations and was shutting down as a political committee. After initial denials, the executive director later confirmed that they were \"leaving GOProud behind\" and that GOProud would be dissolved.\n\n\nAnn Coulter was a member of the advisory council beginning on August 9, 2011.\n\nGOProud had affiliates in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The Metroplex Republicans Dallas and Right Pride (Nevada affiliate) were affiliated with GOProud.\n\nJimmy LaSalvia and Christopher R. Barron co-founded GOProud on April 15, 2009. LaSalvia was the Director of Programs and Policy for the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay organization identifying with Republican ideals. Barron was the Political Director at Log Cabin Republicans before both men decided to leave with hopes of a creating a better organization that dealt with more conservative values. They wanted to focus on the issues of the conservative agenda rather than social issues, the focus of Log Cabin Republicans. Barron and LaSalvia believe that same-sex marriage is a state issue and therefore wanted an organization that focused on the real conservative agenda. Margaret Hoover, a member of the advisory council, added her opinion into the mix, \"GOProud has helped force gays out of the conservative establishment – what I would call the 'conser-va-gentsia' – to take on these self-anointed leaders of social conservatism.\"\n\nConservative Political Action Conference, an annual political conference attended by conservative activists and elected officials from across the United States invited GOProud to its 2010 conference. The Family Research Council started a boycott of CPAC over the invitation. Groups that followed the FRC in boycotting included the Concerned Women for America, American Principles Project, Center for Military Readiness, National Organization for Marriage and Liberty Council. These conservative groups worried that adding gay members would weaken the movement.\n\nDuring a panel at the 2010 CPAC, Alexander McCobin, co-founder and executive director of Students For Liberty, opened his remarks by thanking the American Conservative Union for welcoming GOProud as a co-sponsor of the event. Ryan Sorba, chairman of the California Young Americans for Freedom and author of \"The \"Born Gay\" Hoax\", attempted to derail support for GOProud at CPAC. During his speech at the convention, he condemned GOProud for entering the conference but was eventually booed by the audience.\n\nSarah Palin, former Alaska governor and Vice Presidential Candidate, and Sharron Angle, 2010 Republican nominee for the U.S. Senate seat in Nevada, also expressed support for GOProud. Palin said she was \"always in favor of freedom\" and supported CPAC's inclusion of \"different, diverse groups... involved in political discourse.\" Angle told \"The Huffington Post\", \"We need to be very careful when we get to talk about our opinions and be inclusive.\"\n\nIn February 2011, Trump made his first speaking appearance at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). His appearance at CPAC was organized by GOProud, in conjunction with GOPround supporter Roger Stone, who was close with Trump. GOProud pushed for a write-in campaign for Donald Trump at CPAC's presidential straw poll. Christopher R. Barron, co-founder of GOProud who would later not only endorse Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, but also launch LGBT for Trump, said he \"would love to see Mr. Trump run for president.\" The speech was later credited with helping to launch his political career within the Republican Party.\n\n\"Don't ask, don't tell\" is a political issue and policy enacted in 1993. This policy allowed homosexuals to serve in the military as long as their sexual orientation was undisclosed. GOProud supported repealing the policy. \nGOProud condemned Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum – both candidates for the Republican nomination for President in 2012 – after they favoured reinstating the policy.\n\nFounders LaSalvia, who is also Executive Director, and Barron outed gay pollster and Perry campaign adviser Tony Fabrizio over Rick Perry's \"Strong\" campaign ad, citing what they viewed as homophobic themes in the ad. The ensuing fallout over the outing caused the late conservative media mogul Andrew Breitbart to resign from GOProud's board. This move has also caused controversy inside the group, with many top members expressing disagreement and disgust over the outing.\n\nIn July 2011, American Conservative Union's board voted to not allow GOProud to co-sponsor the 2012 CPAC event. This led to controversy among the entities who wanted GOProud to sponsor the event.\n\nGOProud was once again excluded from sponsoring CPAC in 2013, however this led to some criticism from some, such as S. E. Cupp and Chris Hayes, who boycotted attending CPAC that year over the issue.\n\nIn April 2013, the two co-founders, executive director Jimmy LaSalvia and senior strategist Chris Barron, sold the GOProud name, a computer, a contact list, and some posters to three former interns, and announced plans to step back from their day-to-day roles with the group.\n\nIn July 2013, the organization's Board of Directors announced that their new Leadership team consisted of Ross Hemminger, a former aide to US Senator Scott Brown; and Matthew Bechstein, a public relations consultant from California.\n\nIn January 2014, Jimmy LaSalvia left GOProud and the Republican party and became an independent. This was due to LaSalvia viewing the Republican Party as too bigoted and closed minded towards LGBT people.\n\nIn February, founder Chris Barron resigned from GOProud to protest what he called \"an unconditional surrender to the forces of bigotry\" after the new leaders, Hemminger and Bechstein, accepted an offer from the organizers of CPAC to allow them to attend the conference as guests, without a booth or other formal presence for GOProud.\n\nIn June 2014, reports surfaced that the GOProud leadership had decided to dissolve the organization. Executive Director Matthew Bechstein issued a denial of the report, stating that it was untrue and that the organization would continue operating as it had. But the following day he admitted that \"I posted what I had to on Facebook so I wouldn't scare our members and thwart our fundraising efforts. I wanted to mitigate a disaster.\" He then stated that GOProud did indeed plan to file dissolution papers with the government.\n\nAccording to its website, the top four issues concerning GOProud included \"tax reform\", \"limited government\", \"freedom-focused foreign policy\", and \"choices in education\".\n\nOn January 18, 2013, GOProud officially came out in support of same-sex marriage at a state by state level. Prior to that, GOProud had no official position on marriage or relationship recognition. In 2011, Ann Coulter said she had convinced GOProud to take its support of same sex marriage out of its platform.\n\nWhile GOProud didn't have an official position on abortion, GOProud attended anti-abortion rallies and Christopher Barron said that \"I want pro-life gays to know they have a home here.\" Jimmy LaSalvia is pro-life and warned the gay community should be pro-life because of the threat of selective abortions of gay fetuses.\n\nGOProud had no official position on the Employment Nondiscrimination Act or the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act. In 2009, GOProud supported the inclusion of the Thune-Vitter Concealed Carry Reciprocity Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "12093724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12093724", "title": "Galician Unity", "text": "Galician Unity\n\nGalician Unity (; UG) was a Galician nationalist and social democratic political coalition formed by the Galician Workers Party, Galician Socialist Party, and the Galicianist Party in 1979.\n\nThe coalition aimed at promoting a degree of autonomy and self-governance of Galicia from Spain equal to that of Catalonia and the Basque Country, other autonomous communities of Spain. The coalition also promoted the adoption of a statute of autonomy for Galicia (like the 1978 Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the 1979 Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia). This goal was achieved with the Galician Statute of Autonomy of 1981.\n\nUG obtained more than 58,000 votes in the 1979 Spanish general election, but failed to gain any parliamentary representation in the Cortes Generales. In the municipal elections of 1979, UG candidate Domingos Merino was elected mayor of A Coruña, the second largest city of Galicia. UG candidates were also elected mayors in Cambados, Narón, Rairiz de Veiga, Redondela, As Pontes de García Rodríguez, Touro, Vilaboa and Malpica de Bergantiños.\n\nGalician Unity was largely absorbed into the Bloque Nacionalista Galego in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "684686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684686", "title": "Glass cliff", "text": "Glass cliff\n\nThe glass cliff is the phenomenon of women in leadership roles, such as executives in the corporate world and female political election candidates, being likelier than men to achieve leadership roles during periods of crisis or downturn, when the chance of failure is highest.\n\nThe term was coined in 2004 by British professors Michelle K. Ryan and Alexander Haslam of University of Exeter, United Kingdom. In a study, Ryan and Haslam examined the performance of FTSE 100 companies before and after the appointment of new board members, and found that companies that appointed women to their boards were likelier than others to have experienced consistently bad performance in the preceding five months. This work eventually developed into the identification of a phenomenon known as the glass cliff. Since the term originated, its use has expanded beyond the corporate world to also encompass politics and other domains.\n\nRyan and Haslam's research showed that once women break through the glass ceiling and take on positions of leadership they often have experiences that are different from those of their male counterparts. More specifically, women are more likely to occupy positions that are precarious and thus have a higher risk of failure—either because they are appointed to lead organizations (or organizational units) that are in crisis or because they are not given the resources and support needed for success.\n\nExtending the metaphor of the glass ceiling, Ryan and Haslam evoked the notion of the \"glass cliff\" to refer to a danger which involves exposure to risk of falling but which is not readily apparent. CEO tenure is typically shorter at companies which are struggling, compared to those which are stable.\n\nThe glass cliff concept has also been used to describe employment discrimination experienced by leaders who are members of minorities or disabled.\n\nEvidence of the glass cliff phenomenon has been documented in the field of law. A 2006 study found law students were much likelier to assign a high-risk case to a female lead counsel rather than a male one. A 2010 study found undergraduate students in British political science likelier to select a male politician to run for a safe seat in a by-election, and much likelier to select a female candidate when the seat was described as hard to get.\n\nOther research has failed to confirm the existence of glass cliff phenomenon. A 2007 study of corporate performance preceding CEO appointments showed that women executives are no more likely to be selected for precarious leadership positions than males.\n\nMany theories have been advanced to explain the existence of the glass cliff.\n\nUniversity of Houston psychology professor Kristin J. Anderson says companies may offer glass cliff positions to women because they consider women \"more expendable and better scapegoats.\" She says the organizations that offer women tough jobs believe they win either way: if the woman succeeds, the company is better off. If she fails, the company is no worse off, she can be blamed, the company gets credit for having been egalitarian and progressive, and can return to its prior practice of appointing men.\n\nHaslam and Ryan say their studies show that people believe women are better-suited to lead stressed, unhappy companies because they are felt to be more nurturing, creative, and intuitive. These researchers argue that female leaders are not necessarily expected to improve the situation, but are seen as good people managers who can take the blame for organizational failure.\n\nHaslam has said that women executives are likelier than men to accept glass cliff positions because they do not have access to the high-quality information and support that would ordinarily warn executives away. Utah State University professors Ali Cook and Christy Glass say women and other minorities view risky job offers as the only chance they are likely to get.\n\nA 2007 study found that female news consumers in the United Kingdom were likelier than male ones to accept that the glass cliff exists and is dangerous and unfair to women executives. Female study participants attributed the existence of the glass cliff to a lack of other opportunities for women executives, sexism, and men's in-group favoritism. Male study participants said that women are less suited than men to difficult leadership roles or strategic decision-making, or that the glass cliff is unrelated to gender.\n\nGlass cliff positions risk hurting the women executives' reputations and career prospects because, when a company does poorly, people tend to blame its leadership without taking into account situational or contextual variables. Researchers have found that female leaders find it harder than male ones to get second chances once they have failed due to having fewer mentors and sponsors and less access to a protective \"old boys' network\".\n\nHowever, some researchers argue that companies in bad situations offer more opportunity for power and influence compared with companies that are stable.\n\nNews media have described the following as examples of the glass cliff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22414006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414006", "title": "Green Zionism", "text": "Green Zionism\n\nGreen Zionism is a branch of Zionism that is primarily concerned with the environment of Israel. It mostly fuses Israeli-specific environmental concerns with support for the existence of Israel as a Jewish state. The term itself is a trademark of Aytzim, the first environmental organization to participate in the World Zionist Congress, the World Zionist Organization, and its constituent agencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42282009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42282009", "title": "HIV/AIDS denialism in South Africa", "text": "HIV/AIDS denialism in South Africa\n\nIn South Africa, HIV/AIDS denialism had a significant impact on public health policy from 1999 to 2008, during the presidency of Thabo Mbeki. Mbeki criticized the scientific consensus that HIV does cause AIDS beginning shortly after his election to the presidency. In 2000, he organized a Presidential Advisory Panel regarding HIV/AIDS including several scientists who denied that HIV caused AIDS. In the following eight years of his presidency, Mbeki continued to express sympathy for HIV/AIDS denialism, and instituted policies denying antiretroviral drugs to AIDS patients. Instead of providing these drugs, which he described as \"poisons\", shortly after he was elected to the presidency, he appointed Manto Tshabalala-Msimang as the country's health minister, who promoted the use of unproven herbal remedies such as ubhejane, garlic, beetroot, and lemon juice to treat AIDS, which led to her acquiring the nickname \"Dr. Beetroot.\" These policies have been blamed for the preventable deaths of between 343,000 and 365,000 people from AIDS. As of 2008, Mbeki has remained silent about his views and policies on AIDS; according to \"The New York Times\", his spokesman, Mukoni Ratshitanga, said Mr. Mbeki would not discuss his thinking on HIV and AIDS, explaining that policy decisions were made collectively by the cabinet and so questions should be addressed to the government. Upon becoming president in 2008, Mbeki's successor, Kgalema Motlanthe, appointed Barbara Hogan as health minister to replace Tshabalala-Msimang on the first day of his presidency. Hogan told \"The New York Times\", “The era of denialism is over completely in South Africa.”\n\nThe reason Mbeki became so enamored with HIV/AIDS denialism remains unclear, but some have suggested that it was influenced by Christine Maggiore meeting with him in the 1990s. Another factor may have been when, in 1999, Anthony Brink published an article entitled \"A Medicine from Hell\", which described AZT as dangerous and ineffective. Brink would later claim that this article was responsible for Mbeki's policies banning the use of the drug. Brink contacted Mbeki after the article was published, and was welcomed as an expert. Mbeki, in a 2002 document of which he was the co-author, also cited John Le Carre's novel The Constant Gardener as influencing his fear of pharmaceutical companies and their influence on scientific research. Given that Mbeki explicitly accused supporters of the consensus position on HIV/AIDS of racism, it has also been proposed that his denialist views arose from a history of racist portrayals of black people in South Africa under the apartheid system. An article in \"Race & Class\" by Joy Wang proposes that both of these factors influenced Mbeki's embrace of AIDS denialism, and cites Frantz Fanon's essay \"Medicine and Colonialism\" to explain what Wang describes as \"...the impasse between scientists and Mbeki's government.\" Martin Asser has also proposed that Mbeki's views on AIDS may have been influenced by the high price of ARV therapy relative to the relatively small amount of money his country's citizens have at their disposal. In 2004, Theodore F. Sheckels of Randolph-Macon College argued that Mbeki, while discussing HIV/AIDS as president of South Africa, attempted to portray \"the West\" as the scapegoat in order to unite the country's black majority. Barton Gellman has proposed an alternative explanation for Mbeki's views—namely, that he is \"a sort of restless, roving intellect who likes to surf the Internet and is accustomed to being a dissident who allies himself against establishments. After all, he spent his whole adult life fighting apartheid.\" He also noted that even if Mbeki followed every recommendation of the mainstream scientific community regarding AIDS he still wouldn't solve the problem, so, according to Gellman, Mbeki is \"keeping the scientific uncertainties alive because he doesn't want to portray himself as helpless.\"\n\nOn May 10, 1994, Mandela became President of South Africa, remaining in that office until replaced by Thabo Mbeki five years later. During his presidency, which lasted from then until 1999, Mandela remained largely indifferent to HIV/AIDS, and did not speak out about the danger it posed to South Africa until the early 2000s. Mandela has himself reportedly expressed regret that he did not do more to combat AIDS during his presidency.\n\nIn early 1997, Mbeki, who was then the Deputy President of South Africa, approached the other members of the African National Congress to pitch the idea of using a new anti-AIDS drug, developed in South Africa, called Virodene. The advantages over existing ARV drugs which proved appealing to Mbeki included being 200 times less expensive than antiretroviral triple therapy, and the possibility of bypassing the Western medical establishment if it was proven to work. This led to a group of AIDS patients who had been treated with Virodene being invited to testify before the Cabinet of South Africa. Their testimonies included many statements that they had gained weight and seen boils on their faces vanish after they started being treated.\n\nHowever, the fact remained that the makers of Virodene had previously been denied a license by the South African Medicines Control Council (MCC). The company argued that this happened because the South African AIDS establishment did not want any drugs other than ARVs to become available, because the establishment was funded by Western drug firms. Mbeki found this argument compelling. The drug was then legalized and heavily and favorably promoted in the popular media, until it became apparent that it posed a severe health hazard. The MCC subsequently declared the drug unfit for human consumption.\n\nOn June 14, 1999, Mbeki was elected President of South Africa.\n\nOn October the 28th, Mbeki gave a speech to the National Council of Provinces in which he touched upon the issue of HIV/AIDS, and especially whether his government should distribute ARV drugs. He argued that they shouldn't be so quick to do so because of their adverse effects, and recommended that the members of the council read the information on the Internet on the topic.\n\nOn March 19, 2000, it was reported that Mbeki had consulted biochemist David Rasnick and history professor Charles Geshekter, both of whom are AIDS denialists, for advice on HIV/AIDS. Awa Marie Coll-Seck reacted to the news by saying, \"At first, we were thinking we would just ignore it, but now we think this confusion can really undermine all the efforts people have made to prevent this disease.\"\n\nOn April 20, 2000, Mbeki sent a five-page letter to Bill Clinton in which he describes AIDS as a \"uniquely African catastrophe,\" and compared the \"persecution\" of HIV/AIDS denialists to the treatment of black people in South Africa during the apartheid era. The letter was leaked to \"The Washington Post\" shortly afterward, which provoked condemnation from many commentators and \"infuriated and embarrassed\" Mbeki. The following day, Jacob Zuma, then South African deputy president, compared those criticizing HIV/AIDS denialists to critics of Galileo during the 17th century. \"His views were considered to be so threatening to the scientific establishment that he was forced to publicly recant,\" Zuma was quoted as saying in a statement released by the office of the presidency.\n\nLater that year, Mbeki convened a panel of 33 scientists whom he referred to as \"experts\", of whom about half were AIDS denialists such as Peter Duesberg and Harvey Bialy. The panel, known as the \"Presidential Advisory Panel on AIDS,\" also included AIDS researchers who supported the scientific consensus that HIV causes AIDS, and was split about evenly between the two groups. Their first meeting was held from May 6 to May 7. Nicoli Nattrass has blamed Duesberg and his supporters on this panel, as well as Mbeki, for the popularity of AIDS denialism in South Africa.\n\nThe Presidential Advisory Panel on AIDS's second meeting took place on July 3 and 4 in Johannesburg. Both meetings were closed to the general public and to nearly all journalists, with the exception of Mark Schoofs of the \"Village Voice\". Schoofs reported that David Rasnick, another AIDS denialist member of the panel, had called for HIV testing to be completely banned, and had argued he hadn't seen \"any evidence\" of an AIDS catastrophe. The meeting also culminated in research proposals by both supporters and denialists of the HIV/AIDS hypothesis. South African health official Khotso Mokhele praised both proposals, saying that once concluded, one side of the HIV/AIDS debate might \"shut up once and for all.\" The AIDS denialists at the meeting recommended that the disease be treated not with antiretroviral drugs, but rather with vitamins and “alternative” and “complementary” therapies including “massage therapy, music therapy, yoga, spiritual care, homeopathy, Indian ayurvedic medicine, light therapy and many other methods.” On July 6, the scientific community responded with the Durban Declaration, signed by 5,000 scientists and published in \"Nature\". The declaration stated, among other things, that \"HIV causes AIDS. It is unfortunate that a few vocal people continue to deny the evidence. This position will cost countless lives.\" Nevertheless, when the International AIDS Conference in Durban was held just three days later, where Mbeki was scheduled to give the opening speech, he openly rejected the mainstream view that HIV is the cause of AIDS, and instead argued that it was caused by poverty, bad nourishment and general ill-health. The solution was not, Mbeki continued, expensive western medicine, but the alleviation of poverty in Africa. He also invited Maggiore, an outspoken AIDS denialist, to give a talk at the conference, and, in one of his own speeches, exhorted the other delegates at the conference to \"...speak to one another honestly and frankly, with sufficient tolerance to respect everybody's point of view, with sufficient tolerance to allow all voices to be heard.\" His speech met with largely negative reception from the delegates attending the conference, hundreds of whom walked out.\n\nIn September 2000, Mbeki told the South African Parliament that \"The programme of the government in this country is based on this thesis that HIV causes Aids and everything in the programme says that.\" However, he later stated that he still did not think HIV caused AIDS, and that it could, in his view, only be a contributing factor, not a sole cause.\n\nIn mid-October, the South African government announced that Mbeki would be \"reducing his role\" in the HIV/AIDS debate, with Mbeki himself acknowledging he may have caused \"confusion\" by publicly challenging the mainstream view of the cause of AIDS. Nevertheless, his approval rating had already dropped from 70 to 50 percent in the previous year. Many senior American politicians had expressed private doubts about his judgment, though other South African politicians were even more outspoken in their criticism. For example, many South African trade and banking officials expressed concern that Mbeki's statements were driving away potential investors. In a 2007 interview, Mbeki told his biographer, Mark Gevisser, that he only did this because he was pressured to by his cabinet and he regrets his decision to do so.\n\nIn August 2001, Mbeki incorrectly claimed, based on outdated statistics, that HIV/AIDS is only the 12th leading killer in South Africa, when it was actually \"the\" leading killer. He also asked health officials to reassess the budget accordingly, and proposed that the new healthcare budget include a decreased emphasis on HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe following October, Mbeki gave two speeches in which he demonstrated that, according to the New York Times, he \"...remains badly misinformed about [HIV]...\" In the speeches, he exaggerated the dangers of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs), downplayed the dangers of AIDS itself, and suggested that his critics were racist. The Economist reacted to his speech to Parliament, in which he claimed that ARVs \"...are becoming as dangerous to health as the thing they are supposed to treat,\" by saying that this claim was simply wrong, adding that ARVs not only prolong life but also make sufferers less infectious. They also criticized the government's dismissal of its critics as stooges for international drug companies by arguing that \"government intransigence, not the cost of drugs, is the real problem.\"\n\nOn September 26, 2003, Mbeki's spokesman confirmed that Mbeki had in fact stated that he didn't know anyone with AIDS. This remark provoked considerable criticism from AIDS activists and opposition politicians, with Xolani Kunene of Treatment Action Campaign remarking that Mbeki was \"not living in the real South Africa.\"\n\nMbeki was asked by the South African Parliament if he thought rape played any role in spreading AIDS, to which he replied that “The disease of racism” led to blacks being portrayed as “lazy, liars, foul-smelling, diseased, corrupt, violent, amoral, sexually depraved, animalistic, savage and rapist.” In an opinion piece written four years later, Roger Cohen cited this remark as evidence that Mbeki considered HIV/AIDS to be \"a fabrication foisted on Africans by whites determined to distract the continent from real problems of racism and poverty, and accepted by blacks afflicted with the slave mentality engendered by apartheid.\"\n\nThe ARVs that had been approved by the government of South Africa five months earlier first began reaching hospitals in April 2004. Some AIDS activists considered this timing suspicious, as it was two weeks before the national elections were to take place that year.\n\nMatthias Rath travels to South Africa to sell his vitamins which, he claims, are effective at curing AIDS. He soon began organizing clinical trials of the efficacy of these vitamins, which led to the Treatment Action Campaign suing him later that year. Nevertheless, Tshabalala-Msimang stood by Rath, and even appeared at a forum in April to defend Rath's \"right to free speech\" and claim that his drugs had \"equal validity\" to ARVs. Only after a long-running legal battle with the Medicines Control Council were these trials finally declared illegal. AIDS activists have linked Rath's distribution of these vitamins to the deaths of some HIV/AIDS patients.\n\nOn October 26, 2006, South Africa's government announced that they were reversing their previous policies on treatment of HIV/AIDS patients, and would now be distributing ARV drugs through the country's public health services. The announcement was made at a conference of AIDS activists, whom the government had previously ignored. These activists had been spending the previous few years in a legal battle with the country's government in an effort to get them to distribute ARV drugs.\n\nIn late 2006, Tshabalala-Msimang fell ill, after which the country's deputy health minister, Nozizwe Madlala-Routledge, assumed leadership over South Africa's health policies after being summoned to do so by deputy president Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka. While she was at the helm of South Africa's health policies from then until she was fired next August, she attempted to reverse Mbeki's AIDS denialist policies by describing the number of South Africans waiting for ARV drugs as a \"serious violation of human rights.\" She was also one of the principal authors of the country's aggressively anti-AIDS health plan, which was adopted that December.\n\nOn August 9, 2007, despite ongoing calls to fire Tshabalala-Msimang, Mbeki instead fired Madlala-Routledge, South Africa's then-deputy health minister and a longtime critic of his AIDS policies. The stated reason was that she had attended an AIDS conference without his permission, but critics argued this was merely an excuse for Mbeki to rid himself of a politician who was willing to criticize his policies. Given that few other South African officials were willing to criticize Mbeki's views on AIDS, \"the Economist\" expressed concern that her absence would lead to a reversal of the superior AIDS policies she had helped implement.\n\nOn August 31, 2007, after Tshabalala-Msimang came under attack for denying that HIV caused AIDS and promoting unorthodox treatments for the disease, Mbeki leapt to her defense, writing in ANC Today that she would go down in history as \"...one of the pioneer architects of a South African public health system constructed to ensure that we achieve the objective of health for all our people, and especially the poor.\" He also referred to her as a hero and to her critics as \"wild animals.\"\n\nOn February 7, 2008, research by Nicoli Nattrass estimated that the failure of Mbeki's administration to provide ARV drugs until 2006 was responsible for about 343,000 deaths.\nLater that year, a study by Pride Chigwedere et al., published in the December 2008 issue of the \"Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes,\" estimated that Mbeki's HIV/AIDS policies were responsible for \"more than 330,000\" deaths.\n\nOn September 25, 2008, Kgalema Motlanthe succeeded Mbeki as president of South Africa. On the first day of his presidency, he removed Tshabalala-Msimang from the office of health minister and replaced her with Barbara Hogan. Hogan's views on AIDS reflected a dramatic shift from her predecessor's--in December 2008, she promised to increase the supply of ARV drugs available to pregnant women in South Africa, as well as to improve HIV prevention programs.\n\nOn July 19, 2009, a paper co-authored by Duesberg and several other denialists was published, as an Epub ahead of print, in the non-peer reviewed journal \"Medical Hypotheses\" (though it had originally been submitted to the Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes). The paper, which was mainly a response to Chigwedere's 2008 study, argued that official statistics showed that Chigwedere et al.'s estimates of deaths due to AIDS in South Africa (about 330,000 per year) were wildly overestimated and that there was \"as yet no proof that HIV causes AIDS.\" Eventually, the journal received numerous expressions of concern about the paper, including accusations of libel and concern about its potential adverse impact on public health, and therefore retracted it that September. This led to Elsevier, the journal's publisher, threatening to fire Bruce Charlton, the journal's editor, if he did not institute a peer-review process for the journal. Charlton refused, and was therefore fired in May 2010.\n\nOn October 29, 2009, South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, who had been elected president the previous May, gave a speech which was seen by many as the end of AIDS denialism in South Africa. In the speech, Zuma acknowledged HIV/AIDS as one of South Africa's most serious problems, saying that \"...all South Africans need to know their HIV status, and be informed of the treatment options available to them.\"\n\nDuring Mbeki's presidency, many medical researchers harshly criticized his AIDS policies and predicted that these policies would lead to countless deaths. Another critic of these policies was Harvard University's Robert Rotberg, who, in 2000, said of Mbeki's AIDS policies, \"This is very foolish and uncharacteristic of him.\" In 2002, Mbeki's AIDS policies faced even more criticism, this time from Nelson Mandela, who said in an interview that \"This [AIDS] is a war. It has killed more people than has been the case in all previous wars and in all previous natural disasters. We must not continue to be debating, to be arguing, when people are dying.\" The Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, Njongonkulu Ndungane, also criticized these policies, saying that the government was \"sinning\" by \"withholding truth and maintaining the silence of denial\" over AIDS. Desmond Tutu also spoke out against Mbeki's AIDS denialist policies and compared them to \"fiddling while Rome burns\". Ndungane, along with Max Essex, have argued that Mbeki's policies were worse than just bad judgment—Ndungane even described these policies as a crime against humanity on the same scale as apartheid. After Chigwedere et al.'s research estimating AIDS denialist policies in South Africa led to over 300,000 deaths was published, philosopher Peter Singer cited it in support of his conclusion that \"Mbeki, like Mandela, was active in the struggle against apartheid. Yet the Harvard study shows that he is responsible for the deaths of 5,000 times as many black South Africans as the white South African police who fired on the crowd at Sharpeville.\" Singer also wrote that while Mbeki was not motivated by malice in deciding his AIDS policies, that he was nevertheless \"culpable, not for having initially entertained a view held by a tiny minority of scientists, but for having clung to this view without allowing it to be tested in fair and open debate among experts.\" Other critics, such as Karl Kruszelnicki, have noted that South Africa, unlike many of its fellow sub-Saharan African countries, \"...has both the medical personnel and wealth to meet the HIV/AIDS challenge head-on,\" making it especially unfortunate that these resources were not used for so long.\n\nIn 2006, 40% of South Africans believed there was a cure for AIDS. Research presented by Nicoli Nattrass at a Harvard symposium on October 19, 2009 concluded that \"...denialist beliefs are held disproportionately by black African men and are far more likely to be held by those supportive of Mbeki’s health minister [Tshabalala-Msimang].\"\n"}
{"id": "27075677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27075677", "title": "Hawaii Tea Party", "text": "Hawaii Tea Party\n\nThe Hawaii Tea Party are regional grassroots affiliates with the Tea Party each of which are broken down into seven smaller parties Hilo Tea Party Patriots (Hilo), Honolulu Professionals for Change (Honolulu), Kauai TEA Party (Kauai) Kona TEA Party (Kona), Maui Tea Party (Maui) Oahu Tea Party (Ewa Beach) Tea Party Wahiawa (Wahiawa).\n\nThe Hawaii Tea Party has accused the government of being \"socialist\" and called for smaller government and privatization of existing government services. The group says it would lower taxes.\n\nThe Hawaii Tea Party has called for lawmakers to govern based on a strict constructionist philosophy of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe Tea Party Wahiawa is looking to recruit military families and to promote the \"conservative message\".\n\nThe main base of the Tea Party has come from employers and small business owners who claim their rights have been overshadowed by Hawaii Democrats' emphasis on employee protection and workers' rights.\n\nWhile no candidates have been elected directly from the party, the party has promoted candidates that allign with its platform and \"Constitutionally Conservative\" vision. In 2010 it endorsed Senate candidate Cam Cavasso, 2nd congressional district of Hawaii candidate John Willoughby and Big Island County Council District 7 candidate Enock Freire. \n"}
{"id": "43920297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43920297", "title": "HeForShe", "text": "HeForShe\n\nHeForShe (often referred to as He for She) is a solidarity campaign for the advancement of gender equality, initiated by UN. Its goal is to achieve equality by encouraging all genders to partake as agents of change and take action against negative stereotypes and behaviors. Grounded in the idea that gender inequality is an issue that affects all people—socially, economically and politically—it seeks to actively involve men and boys in a movement that was originally conceived as \"a struggle for women by women\".\n\nOn the HeForShe website, a map—which uses a geo-locator to record global engagement in the campaign—counts the number of men and boys around the world who have taken the HeForShe pledge, and was used as UN Women worked towards its goal of engaging one million men and boys by July 2015, a goal which they failed to meet. The campaign website also includes implementation plans for UN agencies, individuals and civil society, as well as those on university and college campuses, both through online and sustained engagement.\n\n\"Initially we were asking the question, 'Do men care about gender equality?' and we found out that they do care\", said Elizabeth Nyamayaro, senior adviser to the executive director of UN Women. \"Then we started to get a lot of emails from men who signed up, who now want to do more.\" \n\nA special event was held to kick-start the HeForShe campaign on 20 September 2014 at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York. It was hosted by UN Women Goodwill Ambassador Emma Watson, whose speech—about her own path to feminism and her call to involve men and boys in promoting gender equality—was widely circulated via social media.\n\nAt that event, UN Women made a call to mobilize the first 100,000 men in the campaign, a goal successfully reached in just three days. Former United States President Barack Obama, actor Matt Damon, and former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon are among some of the high-profile male champions featured on the site.\n\nUN Women launched the HeForShe IMPACT 10x10x10 initiative to gain further momentum in advancing gender equality and women's empowerment at the 2015 World Economic Forum in Davos on January 23, 2015. The initiative was launched as a one-year pilot effort to engage governments, corporations and universities as instruments of change. IMPACT 10x10x10 targets some of the communities that most need to address women's empowerment and gender equality concerns—and those that have the greatest capacity to make and influence those changes.\n\nGlobal leaders serving as IMPACT 10x10x10 founding champions include H.E. Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands; H.E. President Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone; H.E. Prime Minister Stefan Löfvén of Sweden; Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever; Rick Goings, chairman and CEO of Tupperware Brands Corporation; and Dennis Nally, chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd.\n\nUN Women Executive Director and Under-Secretary-General Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said: \"HeForShe exemplifies UN Women's groundbreaking leadership on gender equality. We know where change is proving hardest. The HeForShe IMPACT initiative puts responsibility for change right where it matters—and spotlights leaders who can make it happen. The founding champions from industry and government will pave the way for others to join in, using the pilot initiatives to streamline decision-making on relevant and successful activities. Ultimately, we need everyone to get involved if we are to turn the tide.\"\n\nIMPACT 10x10x10 prioritizes legislative bodies and corporations based on the severity of gender inequality in these areas, as confirmed by findings from the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report in 2014. The report highlights the large gap between men and women in terms of political empowerment and indicates that there has been little improvement in workplace equality since 2006. Universities were invited to join the impact trio because youth engagement represents one of the greatest opportunities to accelerate progress in the achievement of gender equality and the end of violence against women.\n\nPopular British actor and UN Women Global Goodwill Ambassador Emma Watson serves as the public face of the movement. She said, \"The groundswell of response we have received in support for HeForShe tells us we are tapping into what the world wants: to be a part of change. Now we have to channel that energy into purposeful action. The pilot initiative provides that framework. Next we need all country leadership, as well as that of hundreds of universities and corporations to follow HeForShe's IMPACT 10x10x10 so as to bring an end to the persisting inequalities faced by women and girls globally.\"\n\nIn Mexico, the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) supports the campaign HeForShe. UNAM has historically organized several events and programs to empower women, so this campaign was well aligned with the university's principles, which facilitated the university's participation. Within the HeForShe campaign, the university has organized events where women and men collaborate and innovate together. UNAM has also opened forums where women and men share their experiences regarding discrimination, and best practices to overcome it. HeForShe has particularly offered a platform where UNAM could continue to include women, especially in tech fields. UNAM's efforts, as well as that of other organizations in the region, have helped to position Mexico as a country with a high number of women engineers.\n\nAround the world, Vice Chancellors and Presidents of universities are participants in the initiative.\n\nIn celebration of International Women's Day on March 8, 2015, Emma Watson continued the HeForShe movement by hosting a live Facebook conversation in which she addressed questions and hosted an intimate conversation about gender equality. The event was attended live by 120 fans and viewed by millions more around the world as Watson galvanized a conversation about serious issues from unequal pay to why feminism should not be threatening to everyday issues including why it is okay for men to cry, chivalry and everything in between.\n\nThe UN Women's HeForShe solidarity movement for gender equality gained new exposure in early March 2015 when campaign title sponsor and leading global financial services firm JPMorgan Chase & Co. encouraged support for the movement on the screens of Chase ATMs throughout New York City and Los Angeles.\n\n\"Gender equality is not just a women's issue; it's a human rights issue that benefits everyone,\" said a banner running on Chase ATMs through the month of March 2015, urging men and boys to stand up against the inequalities faced by women and girls globally.\n\nSince its announcement with Emma Watson on 20 September 2014, the HeForShe campaign has received widespread media coverage and praise.\n\n\"In a campaign from the United Nations that seeks to promote women's rights, there is not a woman in sight—and that is deliberate. The strategy behind the campaign, which is to begin on Friday morning, is revealed by its theme 'HeForShe'—in other words, men ought to stand up for the rights of the women of the world who are their mothers, sisters and daughters. The centerpiece of the campaign is a website, heforshe.org, where visitors can watch a video clip meant to serve as a teaser that introduces the initiative.\"\n\n\"Usually, you first have to be a woman. But not in the case of Farhan Akhtar, a Bollywood superstar—actor, singer and filmmaker—who recently became the first male ambassador for UN Women, an agency that focuses on gender equality. He's also an advocate for the UN's HeForShe campaign, designed to encourage men to stand up for gender equality.\"\n\n\"Emma Watson launched the HeForShe campaign at the UN last week and extended a 'formal invitation' to men to participate in the conversation about gender equality. 'Gender equality is your issue, too,' said the actor and UN Women Goodwill Ambassador. Watson's speech struck a chord with many and fanned the feminist fire that is, slowly but surely, being reignited.\"\n\n\"Watson is an ambassador for the United Nation's HeForShe campaign—a movement to remind us all that feminism really just means people treating each other with equal respect—and while discussing it last week she recalled a date who became 'tetchy' when she offered to pay for dinner. 'Awkward,' she said.\"\n\n\"Nyamayaro—senior adviser to the Under-Secretary-General and Executive Director of UN Women—Worked with Publicis Dallas, Chief Creative Officer Brad Roseberry and launched the HeForShe campaign as a means to promote solidarity among both genders to enhance the rights of women around the world.\"\n\nThough the HeForShe campaign has been met with some support and approval, it has also been met with widespread criticism. Some have expressed concerns that the campaign—and particularly the name of it—leaves behind individuals who suffer most from gender inequality, such as non-binary individuals. Some claim that the campaign is inherently sexist for upholding the very gender stereotypes it denounces, demonstrated by the name \"He for She,\" where it is implied the stronger male allies need to step up to defend the more sensitive and victimized women. Some critics also believe that the campaign sidelines or discriminates against men (some detractors have interpreted \"HeForShe\" to be a veiled grab for female superiority at men's expense disguised as a push for gender equality). Some critics also note that the campaign is run by privileged women of the United Nations who have not had to endure the many struggles of gender inequality that inhibit the majority of those who suffer from it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19795231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19795231", "title": "Homelessness Action Week", "text": "Homelessness Action Week\n\nHomelessness Action Week (formerly known as Homelessness Awareness Week) is an annual week-long campaign held in over 20 communities in British Columbia, Canada. In Metro Vancouver the week is sponsored by the Greater Vancouver Regional Steering Committee on Homelessness. The first Homelessness Action Week began in 2006 as a way to increase participation and public support for solving homelessness by government, the private sector, communities and individuals. The week promotes initiatives and projects that directly affect communities in a positive way, holding events for and about people who are homeless. It is supported by notable local figures such as former B.C. premier Mike Harcourt, Vancouver Whitecaps president Bob Lenarduzzi, and musician Jim Byrnes.\n\nHomelessness Action Week 2008 has over 20 participating communities throughout B.C. and the Yukon. The week was proclaimed by the provincial government as Homelessness Action Week in 2007 and 2008. The communities participating in the week include: Abbotsford, Metro Vancouver, Prince George, Prince Rupert, Kamloops, Kelowna, Nanaimo, Nelson, Whitehorse, and Victoria. Events include: peaceful demonstrations, discussion forums, food drives, photo exhibitions, films, and service fairs for people who are homeless.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32911691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32911691", "title": "Interuniversity Institute of Valencian Philology", "text": "Interuniversity Institute of Valencian Philology\n\nThe Interuniversity Institute of Valencian Philology (, \"IIFV\"), was created in 1987, and took form with a decree of the Generalitat Valenciana that was issued in 1994. It is composed by the University of Valencia, the University of Alicante and the University Jaume I, from Castellón de la Plana, i.e., the three Valencian universities with superior philology studies.\n\nThe IIFV has a Board of Directors, a General Council and a Consultant Council, together with technical and auxiliary staff, and scholars. The Board of Directors is composed by 49 Valencian philology specialists. Its members choose every four years the Director. They are responsible of fulfilling the IIFV scientific aims. The Director rules with the Board of Directors. The Consultant Council is composed by eleven specialists from all the world, and its mission is to advise the General Council in all the scientific matters that it is requested of. The present IIFV director is the Catalan Philology Professor from the University of Valencia, Ferran Carbó.\n\n"}
{"id": "2869576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2869576", "title": "Kathy Rudy", "text": "Kathy Rudy\n\nM Kathy Rudy is a professor of women's studies at Duke University. Rudy's work is often interdisciplinary as she merges philosophy, theology, politics, feminism, and medical ethics. She is open about her homosexuality, and is a radical social constructionist.\n\nRudy penned a controversial opinion piece that alleged that white culture hypocrisy was responsible for the prosecution of admitted animal abuser Michael Vick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41299361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41299361", "title": "Liberation Support Movement", "text": "Liberation Support Movement\n\nThe Liberation Support Movement (LSM) was an activist organisation based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and Oakland, California, in the United States. The group was active from 1968 until 1982. The group's activities supported indigenous resistance movements in former colonial countries, mainly in Africa. \n\nThe group was founded by American anthropologist Donald Barnett in 1968. Barnett had studied liberation struggles in Africa, writing his thesis at UCLA about the Mau Mau rebel group in Kenya. Barnett then spent parts of the 1960s in Africa collecting oral histories from members of rebel movements, including the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). Upon returning to North America, Barnett accepted a teaching position at Simon Fraser University in Burnaby, British Columbia. From there, he started the LSM, gathering support from the anti-war movement in the United States. \n\nThe LSM had members in Seattle, Washington, the San Francisco Bay Area in California, and in New York City by the early 1970s. The organization was aligned with Marxist-Leninist political ideals. After Barnett's death from a heart attack in 1975, LSM headquarters moved from Vancouver to Oakland. The organization disbanded in 1982. \n"}
{"id": "37853572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853572", "title": "List of films featuring surveillance", "text": "List of films featuring surveillance\n\nThere is a significant body of films that feature surveillance as a theme or as a plot arc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20112654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20112654", "title": "Michael Strautmanis", "text": "Michael Strautmanis\n\nMichael Strautmanis (born March 24, 1969) is an American lawyer. President-Elect Barack Obama announced on December 5, 2008, that Strautmanis would serve as Chief of Staff to Valerie Jarrett who is to be the Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Relations and Public Engagement. He served as Chief Counsel and the Director of Public Liaison and Intergovernmental Affairs on Obama's presidential transition team.\n\nIn March, 2013, he announced his resignation from the White House staff in order to accept a post with the Walt Disney Corporation specializing in corporate citizenship. \nIn January, 2016, he became the Vice President of Civic Engagement for the Obama Foundation.\n\nIn 2018, Strautmanis detailed his longstanding relationship with Michelle and Barack Obama and his experiences in the Obama White House in a chapter in \"West Wingers: Stories from the Dream Chasers, Change Makers, and Hope Creators Inside the Obama White House\".\nPreviously Strautmanis served the Clinton administration as Chief of Staff to the general counsel at the United States Agency for International Development, and then-U.S. Congressman Rod Blagojevich as legislative director. He worked for the American Association for Justice.\n\nA Chicago, Illinois native, Strautmanis was educated at the law school of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. He started his legal career as a paralegal at the Sidley, Austin law firm, where he met the Obamas.\n"}
{"id": "37513162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37513162", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy (Serbia)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy (Serbia)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of the Republic of Serbia () is the ministry in the Government of Serbia which is in the charge of agriculture, forestry and water economy. The current minister is Branislav Nedimović, in office since 11 August 2016.\n\nThere are several agencies and institutions that operate within the scope of the Ministry:\n\nPolitical Party:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56900667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56900667", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs () is a ministry of the government of the People's Republic of China which is responsible for agriculture and rural affairs in the country. The ministry is headquartered in Beijing. It was formed on 19 March 2018 as a replacement for its predecessor, the Ministry of Agriculture. Some of its additional responsibilities come from the agricultural investment projects of the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Land and Resources, and the Ministry of Water Resources.\n\nOn March 19, 2018, the Government of the People's Republic of China announced that the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs has been created at the first session of the 13th National People's Congress. That same day, Han Changfu was elected Minister of Agriculture and Rural Affairs\n"}
{"id": "47931776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47931776", "title": "Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization", "text": "Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization\n\nMojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization () was an umbrella political organization in Iran, founded in 1979 by unification of seven underground Islamist revolutionary paramilitary and civil organizations which previously fought against the Pahlavi monarchy. \n\nThe organization was firmly allied with the ruling Islamic Republican Party and was given a share of power and three of its members were appointed as government ministers under PM Mir-Hossein Mousavi: Behzad Nabavi (minister without portfolio for executive affairs), Mohammad Salamati (agricalture) and Mohammad-Shahab Gonabadi (housing and urban development).\nMost members were among those formerly associated with the People's Mujahedin of Iran but left the organization after it declared ideology switch to Marxism. The groups were:\n\nThe organization dissolved in 1986 as a result of tensions between the leftist and rightist members.\n\nLeft-wing members of the organization decided to resume activities in 1991 and established leftist Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution \"of Iran\" Organization (adding the words “of Iran” to the name) which later emerged as a reformist party. Some right-wing members founded Society of Devotees of the Islamic Revolution in late-1990s.\n"}
{"id": "4797938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797938", "title": "National Economic Development Council", "text": "National Economic Development Council\n\nThe National Economic Development Council (NEDC) was an economic planning forum set up in 1962 in the United Kingdom to bring together management, trades unions and government in an attempt to address Britain's relative economic decline. It was supported by the National Economic Development Office (NEDO). Both were known as \"Neddy\". Economic Development Committees (EDCs, known as “Little Neddies”) were set up for particular industries.\n\nSimilar bodies had been evolving for a generation. An Economic Advisory Council had been set up in 1930, chaired by the Prime Minister and including leading economists John Maynard Keynes and Josiah Stamp. In 1941 a National Production Advisory Council was set up, chaired by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In 1947 there was an Economic Planning Board under Sir Edwin Plowden; it included industrialists and civil servants, and on Plowden’s retirement in 1953 the Treasury Permanent Secretary took over as chair. In 1957 the Council on Prices, Productivity and Incomes (“the Three Wise Men”) was set up.\n\nNEDC was outlined to the House of Commons in July 1961 by then Chancellor, Selwyn Lloyd, and first met in 1962. It was modelled on the French Economic and Social Council, and it remained an influential player across the 1970s governments of Edward Heath, Harold Wilson and James Callaghan in terms of setting future strategy for UK business and industry, though not in terms of industrial relations. It was headed by a series of consensual industrialists Sir Geoffrey Chandler and Bernard Asher and ex civil servants e.g. John Cassels and one academic Walter Eltis.\n\nMargaret Thatcher distrusted the body and scaled down its meetings from monthly to quarterly. The National Economic Development Council was abolished by John Major in June 1992.\n\nHowever, within the European Union the United Kingdom is a member of a similar international body, namely the European Union's Economic and Social Committee.\n"}
{"id": "6950198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6950198", "title": "National Skill Standards Board", "text": "National Skill Standards Board\n\nThe National Skill Standards Board (NSSB) was a coalition of community, business, labor, education, and civil rights leaders. It was tasked with building a national voluntary system of skill standards, assessment, and certification to enhance the \nability of the United States workforce to compete effectively in the global economy.\n\nNSSB gathered research on the creation of skill requirements, skill assessments, and certification processes. The board developed research protocols for validating skills across an entire Industry, the development of quality criteria for all elements of that system, and the designs for a continuous improvement strategy.\n\nIn 2001, the Manufacturing Skill Standards Board (MSSC) released \"A Blueprint for Workforce Excellence\" the nation's first skill standards developed under a common format and common language for all sectors of manufacturing. The skill standards represent the best practices for high-performance work and define the skills and knowledge required to ensure a skilled, mobile industrial workforce. \nThe standards include national validation of the specific job functions in best practice work sites which when the job is completed successfully. They also establish the level of technical knowledge and skills needed for the job. The three distinct levels of skill standards: core, concentration and specialized.\n\nIn 2003, federal entity NSSB became The National Skill Standards Board Institute (NSSBI). This was a membership foundation which would continue research and development related to the development and use of Industry skills requirements, skills assessment for learning or selection, and certifications.\n\nDavid Wilcox, the Deputy Director of the NSSB in 2003, partnered with Joselito Lualhati, also of the NSSB, to start a new firm called Global Skills X-Change Corporation (GSX) that focuses on building better connections between education and work. \n\nThe NSSB categorized the entire United States’ workforce into just 15 industry sectors. Those sectors include:\n\nThe National Skill Standards Act of 1994 established \"a National Skill Standards Board to serve as a catalyst in stimulating the development and adoption of a voluntary national system of skill standards and of assessment and certification of attainment of skill standards:\"\n\n$15,000,000 was authorized for fiscal year 1994 for this act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45291", "title": "Natural Capitalism", "text": "Natural Capitalism\n\nNatural Capitalism: Creating the Next Industrial Revolution is a 1999 book co-authored by Paul Hawken, Amory Lovins and Hunter Lovins. It has been translated into a dozen languages and was the subject of a Harvard Business Review summary.\n\nIn \"Natural Capitalism\" the authors describe the global economy as being dependent on natural resources and ecosystem services that nature provides. Natural Capitalism is a critique of traditional \"Industrial Capitalism\", saying that the traditional system of capitalism \"does not fully conform to its own accounting principles. It liquidates its capital and calls it income. It neglects to assign any value to the largest stocks of capital it employs – the natural resources and living systems, as well as the social and cultural systems that are the basis of human capital.\"\n\nNatural capitalism recognizes the critical interdependency between the production and use of human-made capital and the maintenance and supply of natural capital. The authors argue that only through recognizing this essential relationship with the Earth's valuable resources can businesses, and the people they support, continue to exist.\n\nTheir fundamental questions are: What would an economy look like if it fully valued all forms of capital? What if an economy were organized not around the abstractions of neoclassical economics and accountancy but around the biological realities of nature? What if generally accepted accounting principles recognized natural and human capital not as a free amenity in inexhaustible supply but as a finite and integrally valuable factor of production? What if in the absence of a rigorous way to practice such accounting, companies started to act as if such principles were in force.\n\nThe authors of \"Natural Capitalism\" say that these choices are possible and \"such an economy would offer a stunning new set of opportunities for all of society, amounting to no less than \"the next industrial revolution\". The book has many practical suggestions for companies interested in a sustainable future.\n\nAccording to the authors, the \"next industrial revolution\" depends on the espousal of four central strategies: \"the conservation of resources through more effective manufacturing processes, the reuse of materials as found in natural systems, a change in values from quantity to quality, and investing in natural capital, or restoring and sustaining natural resources\".\n\nWhile traditional industrial capitalism primarily recognizes the value of money and goods as capital, \"Natural Capitalism\" extends recognition to natural capital and human capital. Problems such as pollution and social injustice may then be seen as failures to properly account for capital, rather than as inherent failures of capitalism itself.\n\nThe fundamental assumptions of Natural Capitalism are as follows:\n\n\nIn a 2009 interview, Paul Hawken described his motivation behind the title \"Natural Capitalism\". He stated that it was intended to be a pun on \"natural capital\", a term originally coined by E.F. Schumacher in 1973. Hawken endorsed the underlying concept of \"natural capital\", and its implications for society, so added an \"-ism\" at the end of that word as a double entendre.\n\nDespite this intention from Hawken, many readers interpreted this wordplay in the opposite way. There was dissent from readers who misunderstood the title, believing that \"Capitalism\" was the operative word, and that the authors were therefore justifying or defending the concept of capitalism. Hawken later expressed regret at this confusion, and stated that while he endorses the spirit of commerce and entrepreneurship, he does not endorse the \"pathological\" qualities inherent in pure capitalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2214927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214927", "title": "Oxford University Democratic Socialist Club", "text": "Oxford University Democratic Socialist Club\n\nThe Oxford University Democratic Socialist Club (OUDSC) was a splinter group from Oxford University Labour Club (OULC), formed in 1940 after disafilliation by the national Labour Party of OULC over its opposition to the Second World War and its support for the Soviet Union. Its first chair was Tony Crosland, and its first treasurer Roy Jenkins. David Ginsburg was also a chair. OUDSC merged with OULC again in 1943.\n"}
{"id": "6965488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6965488", "title": "Promotion of Bantu Self-government Act, 1959", "text": "Promotion of Bantu Self-government Act, 1959\n\nThe Promotion of Bantu Self-Government Act, 1959 (Act No. 46 of 1959, commenced 19 June; subsequently renamed the Promotion of Black Self-government Act, 1959 and later the Representation between the Republic of South Africa and Self-governing Territories Act, 1959) was an important piece of South African apartheid legislation that allowed for the transformation of traditional tribal lands into \"fully fledged independent states Bantustans\" which would supposedly provide for the right to self-determination of the country's Black population. It also resulted in the abolition of parliamentary representation for Blacks, an act furthered in 1970 with the passage of the Black Homeland Citizenship Act. \n\nThe Act was designed to further the policy of so-called \"Grand Apartheid,\" meaning the permanent partition of South Africa into national \"homelands\" for each supposed \"people\" or nation. In this plan, the \"Afrikaner\" (indigenized Dutch) people would control the bulk of the country, while the African population was divided into eight peoples, defined according to language groups, that would have separate nation-states in areas unilaterally demarcated by the white regime. Each black \"nation\" was then provided with a Commissioner-General who was entrusted with the development of its assigned Homeland into a fully self-governing state. Blacks were expected to exercise their political rights in these Homeland enclave states, not in the remainder of South Africa where white supremacy would continue and Afrikaner (Dutch-white) nationalism would be expressed.\n\nThe Act was repealed by the Interim Constitution of South Africa on 27 April 1994.\n"}
{"id": "8246147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8246147", "title": "Sergei Martynov (politician)", "text": "Sergei Martynov (politician)\n\nSergei Nikolaevich Martynov (, ) is a Belarusian politician who was Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belarus from 2004 to 2012.\n\nSergei Martynov was born on February 22, 1953 in Gyumri, Armenian SSR. He graduated from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, \"summa cum laude\", in 1975.\n\nHe previously served in diplomatic representation of Belarus in the United States and as the ambassador in Washington, D.C. between 1993 and 1997. Before his appointment as foreign minister, he also served as ambassador to Belgium, the EU and to NATO between 2001 and 2003. Sergei Martynov was appointed to the post of Foreign Minister of Belarus in March 2003 and dismissed in August 2012.\n\nHe is fluent in Russian, English, French and Swahili.\n\n"}
{"id": "41871308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41871308", "title": "Serzhik, go away!", "text": "Serzhik, go away!\n\nSerzhik, go away! ( \"Serzhik, herrats’ir\") is a political slogan of the Armenian opposition which was spread since 2009 when Serzh Sargsyan already had been the President of Armenia about a year.\n\nThis slogan firstly was sounded on the meeting of The Armenian National Congress, but after some time it has become non-partial and now it's very popular among the all political parties and the whole people, including the veterans of the Artsakh Liberation War.\n\nThis slogan also is fairly common in the Armenian diaspora. It has been used in Strasbourg, Prague, Paris, Los Angeles etc.\n\nAccording to the director of the Armenian center of strategic and national researches Manvel Sarkisyan, «Serzhik, go away!» slogan purchased the universal character against economical and social-political stagnation.\n"}
{"id": "2649767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2649767", "title": "Social stigma", "text": "Social stigma\n\nSocial stigma is the disapproval of, or discrimination against, a person based on perceivable social characteristics that serve to distinguish them from other members of a society. Social stigmas are commonly related to culture, gender, race, and health.\n\nStigma is a Greek word that in its origins referred to a type of marking or tattoo that was cut or burned into the skin of criminals, slaves, or traitors in order to visibly identify them as blemished or morally polluted persons. These individuals were to be avoided particularly in public places.\n\nSocial stigmas can occur in many different forms. The most common deal with culture, gender, race, illness and disease. Individuals who are stigmatized usually feel different and devalued by others.\n\nStigma may also be described as a label that associates a person to a set of unwanted characteristics that form a stereotype. It is also affixed. Once people identify and label your differences others will assume that is just how things are and the person will remain stigmatized until the stigmatizing attribute is undetectable. A considerable amount of generalization is required to create groups, meaning that you put someone in a general group regardless of how well they actually fit into that group. However, the attributes that society selects differ according to time and place. What is considered out of place in one society could be the norm in another. When society categorizes individuals into certain groups the labeled person is subjected to status loss and discrimination. Society will start to form expectations about those groups once the cultural stereotype is secured.\n\nStigma may affect the behavior of those who are stigmatized. Those who are stereotyped often start to act in ways that their stigmatizers expect of them. It not only changes their behavior, but it also shapes their emotions and beliefs. Members of stigmatized social groups often face prejudice that causes depression (i.e. deprejudice). These stigmas put a person's social identity in threatening situations, like low self-esteem. Because of this, identity theories have become highly researched. Identity threat theories can go hand-in-hand with labeling theory.\n\nMembers of stigmatized groups start to become aware that they aren't being treated the same way and know they are probably being discriminated against. Studies have shown that \"by 10 years of age, most children are aware of cultural stereotypes of different groups in society, and children who are members of stigmatized groups are aware of cultural types at an even younger age.\"\n\nFrench sociologist Émile Durkheim was the first to explore stigma as a social phenomenon in 1895. He wrote:\n\n\"Imagine a society of saints, a perfect cloister of exemplary individuals. Crimes or deviance, properly so-called, will there be unknown; but faults, which appear venial to the layman, will there create the same scandal that the ordinary offense does in ordinary consciousnesses. If then, this society has the power to judge and punish, it will define these acts as criminal (or deviant) and will treat them as such.\"\n\nErving Goffman was one of the most influential sociologists of the twentieth century. He described stigma as a phenomenon whereby an individual with an attribute which is deeply discredited by his/her society is rejected as a result of the attribute. Goffman saw stigma as a process by which the reaction of others spoils normal identity.\n\nMore specifically, he explained that what constituted this attribute would change over time. \"It should be seen that a language of relationships, not attributes, is really needed. An attribute that stigmatizes one type of possessor can confirm the usualness of another, and therefore is neither creditable nor discreditable as a thing in itself.\"\n\nIn Goffman's theory of social stigma, a stigma is an attribute, behavior, or reputation which is socially discrediting in a particular way: it causes an individual to be mentally classified by others in an undesirable, rejected stereotype rather than in an accepted, normal one. Goffman, a noted sociologist, defined stigma as a special kind of gap between \"virtual social identity\" and \"actual social identity\":\n\nGoffman divides the individual's relation to a stigma into three categories:\n\nThe wise normals are not merely those who are in some sense accepting of the stigma; they are, rather, \"those whose special situation has made them intimately privy to the secret life of the stigmatized individual and sympathetic with it, and who find themselves accorded a measure of acceptance, a measure of courtesy membership in the clan.\" That is, they are accepted \"by\" the stigmatized as \"honorary members\" of the stigmatized group. \"Wise persons are the marginal men before whom the individual with a fault need feel no shame nor exert self-control, knowing that in spite of his failing he will be seen as an ordinary other.\" Goffman notes that the wise may in certain social situations also bear the stigma with respect to other normals: that is, they may also be stigmatized for being wise. An example is a parent of a homosexual; another is a white woman who is seen socializing with a black man. (Limiting ourselves, of course, to social milieus in which homosexuals and blacks are stigmatized).\n\nUntil recently, this typology has been used without being empirically tested. A 2012 study showed empirical support for the existence of the own, the wise, and normals as separate groups; but, the wise appeared in two forms: active wise and passive wise. Active wise encouraged challenging stigmatization and educating stigmatizers, but passive wise did not.\n\nGoffman emphasizes that the stigma relationship is one between an individual and a social setting with a given set of expectations; thus, everyone at different times will play both roles of stigmatized and stigmatizer (or, as he puts it, \"normal\"). Goffman gives the example that \"some jobs in America cause holders without the expected college education to conceal this fact; other jobs, however, can lead to the few of their holders who have a higher education to keep this a secret, lest they be marked as failures and outsiders. Similarly, a middle class boy may feel no compunction in being seen going to the library; a professional criminal, however, writes [about keeping his library visits secret].\" He also gives the example of blacks being stigmatized among whites, and whites being stigmatized among blacks.\n\nIndividuals actively cope with stigma in ways that vary across stigmatized groups, across individuals within stigmatized groups, and within individuals across time and situations.\n\nThe stigmatized are ostracized, devalued\n, scorned, shunned and ignored. They experience discrimination in the realms of employment and housing. Perceived prejudice and discrimination is also associated with negative physical and mental health outcomes. Young people who experience stigma associated with mental health difficulties may face negative reactions from their peer group. Those who perceive themselves to be members of a stigmatized group, whether it is obvious to those around them or not, often experience psychological distress and many view themselves contemptuously.\n\nAlthough the experience of being stigmatized may take a toll on self-esteem, academic achievement, and other outcomes, many people with stigmatized attributes have high self-esteem, perform at high levels, are happy and appear to be quite resilient to their negative experiences.\n\nThere are also \"positive stigma\": it is possible to be too rich, or too smart. This is noted by Goffman (1963:141) in his discussion of leaders, who are subsequently given license to deviate from some behavioral norms, because they have contributed far above the expectations of the group. This can result in social stigma.\n\nFrom the perspective of the stigmatizer, stigmatization involves, threat, aversion and sometimes the depersonalization of others into stereotypic caricatures. Stigmatizing others can serve several functions for an individual, including self-esteem enhancement, control enhancement, and anxiety buffering, through \"downward-comparison\"—comparing oneself to less fortunate others can increase one's own subjective sense of well-being and therefore boost one's self-esteem.\n\n21st century social psychologists consider stigmatizing and stereotyping to be a normal consequence of people's cognitive abilities and limitations, and of the social information and experiences to which they are exposed.\nCurrent views of stigma, from the perspectives of both the stigmatizer and the stigmatized person, consider the process of stigma to be highly situationally specific, dynamic, complex and nonpathological.\nGerman born sociologist and historian Gerhard Falk wrote:\n\n\"All societies will always stigmatize some conditions and some behaviors because doing so provides for group solidarity by delineating \"outsiders\" from \"insiders\"\".\n\nFalk describes stigma based on two categories, \"existential stigma\" and \"achieved stigma\". He defines existential stigma as \"stigma deriving from a condition which the target of the stigma either did not cause or over which he has little control.\" He defines \"Achieved Stigma\" as \"stigma that is earned because of conduct and/or because they contributed heavily to attaining the stigma in question.\"\n\nFalk concludes that \"we and all societies will always stigmatize some condition and some behavior because doing so provides for group solidarity by delineating 'outsiders' from 'insiders'\". Stigmatization, at its essence is a challenge to one's humanity- for both the \"stigmatized\" person and the \"stigmatizer\". The majority of stigma researchers have found the process of stigmatization has a long history and is cross-culturally ubiquitous.\n\nBruce Link and Jo Phelan propose that stigma exists when four specific components converge:\n\nIn this model stigmatization is also contingent on \"access to social, economic, and political power that allows the identification of differences, construction of stereotypes, the separation of labeled persons into distinct groups, and the full execution of disapproval, rejection, exclusion, and discrimination.\" Subsequently, in this model the term stigma is applied when labeling, stereotyping, disconnection, status loss, and discrimination all exist within a power situation that facilitates stigma to occur.\n\nIdentifying which human differences are salient, and therefore worthy of labeling, is a social process. There are two primary factors to examine when considering the extent to which this process is a social one. The first issue is that significant oversimplification is needed to create groups. The broad groups of black and white, homosexual and heterosexual, the sane and the mentally ill; and young and old are all examples of this. Secondly, the differences that are socially judged to be relevant differ vastly according to time and place. An example of this is the emphasis that was put on the size of forehead and faces of individuals in the late 19th century—which was believed to be a measure of a person's criminal nature.\n\nThe second component of this model centers on the linking of labeled differences with stereotypes. Goffman's 1963 work made this aspect of stigma prominent and it has remained so ever since. This process of applying certain stereotypes to differentiated groups of individuals has attracted a large amount of attention and research in recent decades.\n\nThirdly, linking negative attributes to groups facilitates separation into \"us\" and \"them\". Seeing the labeled group as fundamentally different causes stereotyping with little hesitation. \"Us\" and \"them\" implies that the labeled group is slightly less human in nature, and at the extreme not human at all. At this extreme, the most horrific events occur.\n\nThe fourth component of stigmatization in this model includes \"status loss and discrimination\". Many definitions of stigma do not include this aspect, however these authors believe that this loss occurs inherently as individuals are \"labeled, set apart, and linked to undesirable characteristics.\" The members of the labeled groups are subsequently disadvantaged in the most common group of life chances including income, education, mental well-being, housing status, health, and medical treatment.\nThus, stigmatization by the majorities, the powerful, or the \"superior\" leads to the Othering of the minorities, the powerless, and the \"inferior\". Where by the stigmatized individuals become disadvantaged due to the ideology created by \"the self,\" which is the opposing force to \"the Other.\" As a result, the others become socially excluded and those in power reason the exclusion based on the original characteristics that led to the stigma.\n\nThe authors also emphasize the role of power (social, economic, and political power) in stigmatization. While the use of power is clear in some situations, in others it can become masked as the power differences are less stark. An extreme example of a situation in which the power role was explicitly clear was the treatment of Jewish people by the Nazis. On the other hand, an example of a situation in which individuals of a stigmatized group have \"stigma-related processes\" occurring would be the inmates of a prison. It is imaginable that each of the steps described above would occur regarding the inmates' thoughts about the guards. However, this situation cannot involve true stigmatization, according to this model, because the prisoners do not have the economic, political, or social power to act on these thoughts with any serious discriminatory consequences.\n\nSociologist Matthew W. Hughey explains that prior research on stigma has emphasized individual and group attempts to reduce stigma by 'passing as normal', by shunning the stigmatized, or through selective disclosure of stigmatized attributes. Yet, some actors may embrace particular markings of stigma (e.g.: social markings like dishonor or select physical dysfunctions and abnormalities) as signs of moral commitment and/or cultural and political authenticity. Hence, Hughey argues that some actors do not simply desire to 'pass into normal' but may actively pursue a stigmatized identity formation process in order to experience themselves as causal agents in their social environment. Hughey calls this phenomenon 'stigma allure'.\n\nWhile often \"incorrectly\" attributed to Goffman the \"Six Dimensions of Stigma\" were not his invention. They were developed to augment Goffman's two levels – the discredited and the discreditable. Goffman considered individuals whose stigmatizing attributes are not immediately evident. In that case, the individual can encounter two distinct social atmospheres. In the first, he is \"discreditable\"—his stigma has yet to be revealed, but may be revealed either intentionally by him (in which case he will have some control over how) or by some factor he cannot control. Of course, it also might be successfully concealed; Goffman called this \"passing\". In this situation, the analysis of stigma is concerned only with the behaviors adopted by the stigmatized individual to manage his identity: the concealing and revealing of information.\nIn the second atmosphere, he is \"discredited\"—his stigma has been revealed and thus it affects not only his behavior but the behavior of others. Jones et al. (1984) added the \"six dimensions\" and correlate them to Goffman's two types of stigma, discredited and discreditable.\n\nThere are six dimensions that match these two types of stigma:\n\nIn \"Unraveling the contexts of stigma\", authors Campbell and Deacon describe Goffman's universal and historical forms of Stigma as the following.\n\nStigma occurs when an individual is identified as deviant, linked with negative stereotypes that engender prejudiced attitudes, which are acted upon in discriminatory behavior. Goffman illuminated how stigmatized people manage their \"Spoiled identity\" (meaning the stigma disqualifies the stigmatized individual from full social acceptance) before audiences of normals. He focused on stigma, not as a fixed or inherent attribute of a person, but rather as the experience and meaning of difference.\n\nGerhard Falk expounds upon Goffman's work by redefining \"deviant\" as \"others who deviate from the expectations of a group\" \"and\" by categorizing deviance into two types:\n\nThe physically disabled, mentally ill, homosexuals, and a host of others who are labeled \"deviant\" because they deviate from the expectations of a group, are subject to \"stigmatization-\" the social rejection of numerous individuals, and often entire groups of people who have been labeled deviant.\nCommunication is involved in creating, maintaining, and diffusing stigmas, and enacting stigmatization. The model of stigma communication explains how and why particular content choices (marks, labels, peril, and responsibility) can create stigmas and encourage their diffusion. A recent experiment using health alerts tested the model of stigma communication, finding that content choices indeed predicted stigma beliefs, intentions to further diffuse these messages, and agreement with regulating infected persons' behaviors.\n\nStigma, though powerful and enduring, is not inevitable, and can be challenged. There are two important aspects to challenging stigma: challenging the stigmatisation on the part of stigmatizers, and challenging the internalized stigma of the stigmatized. To challenge stigmatization, Campbell et al. 2005 summarise three main approaches.\nIn relation to challenging the internalized stigma of the stigmatized, Paulo Freire's theory of critical consciousness is particularly suitable. Cornish provides an example of how sex workers in Sonagachi, a red light district in India, have effectively challenged internalized stigma by establishing that they are respectable women, who admirably take care of their families, and who deserve rights like any other worker. This study argues that it is not only the force of rational argument that makes the challenge to the stigma successful, but concrete evidence that sex workers can achieve valued aims, and are respected by others.\n\nStigmatized groups often harbor cultural tools to respond to stigma and to create a positive self-perception among their members. For example, advertising professionals have been shown to suffer from negative portrayal and low approval rates. However, the advertising industry collectively maintains narratives describing how advertisement is a positive and socially valuable endeavor, and advertising professionals draw on these narratives to respond to stigma.\n\nResearch undertaken to determine effects of social stigma primarily focuses on disease-associated stigmas. Disabilities, psychiatric disorders, and sexually transmitted diseases are among the diseases currently scrutinized by researchers. In studies involving such diseases, both positive and negative effects of social stigma have been discovered.\n\nMembers of stigmatized groups may have lower self-esteem than those of nonstigmatized groups. A test could not be taken on the overall self-esteem of different races. Researchers would have to take into account whether these people are optimistic or pessimistic, whether they are male or female and what kind of place they grew up in.\nOver the last two decades, many studies have reported that African Americans show higher global self-esteem than whites even though, as a group, African Americans tend to receive poorer outcomes in many areas of life and experience significant discrimination and stigma.\n\nEmpirical research on stigma associated with mental disorders, pointed to a surprising attitude of the general public. Those who were told that mental disorders had a genetic basis were more prone to increase their social distance from the mentally ill, and also to assume that the ill were dangerous individuals, in contrast with those members of the general public who were told that the illnesses could be explained by social and environment factors. Furthermore, those informed of the genetic basis were also more likely to stigmatize the entire family of the ill. Although the specific social categories that become stigmatized can vary over time and place, the three basic forms of stigma (physical deformity, poor personal traits, and tribal outgroup status) are found in most cultures and eras, leading some researchers to hypothesize that the tendency to stigmatize may have evolutionary roots.\n\nCurrently, several researchers believe that mental disorders are caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain. Therefore, this biological rationale suggests that individuals struggling with a mental illness do not have control over the origin of the disorder. Much like cancer or another type of physical disorder, persons suffering from mental disorders should be supported and encouraged to seek help. Unlike physical disabilities, there is a negative social stigma surrounding mental illness, with those suffering being perceived to have control of their disabilities and being responsible for causing them. \"Furthermore, research respondents are less likely to pity persons with mental illness, instead reacting to psychiatric disability with anger and believing that help is not deserved.\" Although there are effective mental health interventions available across the globe, many persons with mental illnesses do not seek out the help that they need. Only 59.6% of individuals with a mental illness, including conditions such as depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder, reported receiving treatment in 2011. Reducing the negative stigma surrounding mental disorders may increase the probability of afflicted individuals seeking professional help from a psychiatrist or a non-psychiatric physician. How particular mental disorders are represented in the media can vary, as well as the stigma associated with each.\n\nIn the music industry, specifically in the genre of hip-hop or rap, those who speak out on mental illness are heavily criticized. However, according to a The Huffington Post article, there's a significant increase in rappers who are breaking their silence on depression and anxiety.\n\nThroughout history, addiction has largely been seen as a moral failing or character flaw, as opposed to an issue of public health. Substance use has been found to be more stigmatized than smoking, obesity, and mental illness. Research has shown stigma to be a barrier to treatment-seeking behaviors among individuals with addiction, creating a \"treatment gap\". Research shows that the words used to talk about addiction can contribute to stigmatization, and that the commonly used terms of \"abuse\" & \"abuser\" actually increase stigma. Behavioral addictions (i.e. gambling, sex, etc.) are found to be more likely to be attributed to character flaws than substance-use addictions. Stigma is reduced when Substance Use Disorders are portrayed as treatable conditions. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy has been used effectively to help people to reduce shame associated with cultural stigma around substance use treatment.\n\nIn Taiwan, strengthening the psychiatric rehabilitation system has been one of the primary goals of the Department of Health since 1985. Unfortunately, this endeavor has not been successful and it is believed that one of the barriers is social stigma towards the mentally ill. Accordingly, a study was conducted to explore the attitudes of the general population towards patients with mental disorders. A survey method was utilized on 1,203 subjects nationally. The results revealed that the general population held high levels of benevolence, tolerance on rehabilitation in the community, and nonsocial restrictiveness. Essentially, benevolent attitudes were favoring the acceptance of rehabilitation in the community. It could then be inferred that the belief (held by the residents of Taiwan) in treating the mentally ill with high regard, somewhat eliminated the stigma.\n\nEpilepsy, a common neurological disorder characterised by recurring seizures, is associated with various social stigmas. Chung-yan Gardian Fong and Anchor Hung conducted a study in Hong Kong which documented public attitudes towards individuals with epilepsy. Of the 1,128 subjects interviewed, only 72.5% of them considered epilepsy to be acceptable; 11.2% would not let their children play with others with epilepsy; 32.2% would not allow their children to marry persons with epilepsy; additionally, employers (22.5% of them) would terminate an employment contract after an epileptic seizure occurred in an employee with unreported epilepsy. Suggestions were made that more effort be made to improve public awareness of, attitude toward, and understanding of epilepsy through school education and epilepsy-related organizations.\n\nIn the early 21st century, technology has a large impact on the lives of people in multiple countries and has become a social norm. Many people own a television, computer, and a smart phone. The media can be helpful with keeping people up to date on news and world issues and it is very influential on people. Because it is so influential sometimes the portrayal of minority groups affects attitudes of other groups toward them. Much media coverage has to do with other parts of the world. A lot of this coverage has to do with war and conflict, which people may relate to any person belonging from that country. There is a tendency to focus more in the positive behaviour of one's own group and the negative behaviours of other groups. This promotes negative thoughts of people belonging to those other groups, reinforcing stereotypical beliefs.\n\n\"Viewers seem to react to violence with emotions such as anger and contempt. They are concerned for the integrity of the social order and show disapproval of others. Emotions such as sadness and fear are shown much more rarely.\" (Unz, Schwab & Winterhoff-Spurk, 2008, p. 141)\n\nIn a study testing the effects of stereotypical advertisements on students, 75 high school students viewed magazine advertisements with stereotypical female images such as a woman working on a holiday dinner, while 50 others viewed non stereotypical images such as a woman working in a law office. These groups then responded to statements about women in a \"neutral\" photograph. In this photo a woman was shown in a casual outfit not doing any obvious task. The students that saw the stereotypical images tended to answer the questionnaires with more stereotypical responses in 6 of the 12 questionnaire statements. This suggests that even brief exposure to stereotypical ads reinforces stereotypes.(Lafky, Duffy, Steinmaus & Berkowitz, 1996)\n\nThe aforementioned stigmas (associated with their respective diseases) propose effects that these stereotypes have on individuals. Whether effects be negative or positive in nature, 'labeling' people causes a significant change in individual perception (of persons with disease). Perhaps a mutual understanding of stigma, achieved through education, could eliminate social stigma entirely.\n\nLaurence J. Coleman first adapted Erving Goffman's (1963) social stigma theory to gifted children, providing a rationale for why children may hide their abilities and present alternate identities to their peers. The stigma of giftedness theory was further elaborated by Laurence J. Coleman and Tracy L. Cross in their book entitled, \"Being Gifted In School\", which is a widely cited reference in the field of gifted education. In the chapter on Coping with Giftedness, the authors expanded on the theory first presented in a 1988 article. According to Google Scholar, this article has been cited at least 110 times in the academic literature.\n\nColeman and Cross were the first to identify intellectual giftedness as a stigmatizing condition and they created a model based on Goffman's (1963) work, research with gifted students, and a book that was written and edited by 20 teenage, gifted individuals. Being gifted sets students apart from their peers and this difference interferes with full social acceptance. Varying expectations that exist in the different social contexts which children must navigate, and the value judgments that may be assigned to the child result in the child's use of social coping strategies to manage his or her identity. Unlike other stigmatizing conditions, giftedness is a unique because it can lead to praise or ridicule depending on the audience and circumstances.\n\nGifted children learn when it is safe to display their giftedness and when they should hide it to better fit in with a group. These observations led to the development of the Information Management Model that describes the process by which children decide to employ coping strategies to manage their identities. In situations where the child feels different, she or he may decide to manage the information that others know about him or her. Coping strategies include: disidentification with giftedness, attempting to maintain a low visibility, or creating a high-visibility identity (playing a stereotypical role associated with giftedness). These ranges of strategies are called the Continuum of Visibility.\n\nArikan found that a stigmatising attitude to psychiatric patients is associated with narcissistic personality traits.\n\nWhile abortion medicine is very common in western society, women rarely disclose their use of such services, and providers are also subject to stigma.\n\nCultural norms can prevent displays of prejudice as such views are stigmatized and thus people will express non-prejudiced views even if they believe otherwise (preference falsification). However, if the stigma against such views is lessened, people will be more willing to express prejudicial sentiments. For example, following the 2008 economic crisis, anti-immigration sentiment seemingly increased amongst the US population when in reality the level of sentiment remained the same and instead it simply became more acceptable to openly express opposition to immigration.\n\n\n\"This article incorporates text translated from the corresponding German Wikipedia article.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407615", "title": "Sodium nitrite", "text": "Sodium nitrite\n\nSodium nitrite is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula NaNO. It is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder that is very soluble in water and is hygroscopic. It is a useful precursor to a variety of organic compounds, such as pharmaceuticals, dyes, and pesticides, but it is probably best known as a food additive to prevent botulism.\n\nIt is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.\n\nNitrate or nitrite (ingested) under conditions that result in endogenous nitrosation has been classified as \"probably carcinogenic to humans\" by International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).\n\nThe main use of sodium nitrite is for the industrial production of organonitrogen compounds. It is a reagent for conversion of amines into diazo compounds, which are key precursors to many dyes, such as diazo dyes. Nitroso compounds are produced from nitrites. These are used in the rubber industry.\n\nIt is used in a variety of metallurgical applications, for phosphatizing and detinning.\n\nSodium nitrite is an effective corrosion inhibitor and is used as an additive in industrial greases, as an aqueous solution in closed loop cooling systems, and in a molten state as a heat transfer medium.\n\nSodium nitrite is used together with sodium thiosulfate to treat cyanide poisoning.\n\nIt is in the section \"antidotes and other substances used in poisonings\" of the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.\n\nIn the early 1900s, irregular curing was commonplace. This led to further research surrounding the use of sodium nitrite as an additive in food, standardizing the amount present in foods to minimize the amount needed while maximizing its food additive role. Through this research, sodium nitrite has been found to inhibit growth of disease-causing microorganisms; give taste and color to the meat; and inhibit lipid oxidation that leads to rancidity. The ability of sodium nitrite to address the above-mentioned issues has led to production of meat with improved food safety, extended storage life and improving desirable color/taste. It has the E number E250. Potassium nitrite (E249) is used in the same way. It is approved for usage in the EU, USA and Australia and New Zealand.\n\nSodium nitrite is well known for its role in inhibiting the growth of \"Clostridium botulinum\" spores in refrigerated meats. The mechanism for this activity results from the inhibition of iron-sulfur clusters essential to energy metabolism of \"Clostridium botulinum\". However, sodium nitrite has had varying degrees of effectiveness for controlling growth of other spoilage or disease causing microorganisms. Even though the inhibitory mechanisms for sodium nitrite are not well known, its effectiveness depends on several factors including residual nitrite level, pH, salt concentration, reductants present and iron content. Furthermore, the type of bacteria also affects sodium nitrites effectiveness. It is generally agreed upon that sodium nitrite is not considered effective for controlling gram-negative enteric pathogens such as \"Salmonella\" and \"Escherichia coli\".\n\nThe appearance and taste of meat is an important component of consumer acceptance. Sodium nitrite is responsible for the desirable red color (or shaded pink) of meat. Very little nitrite is needed to induce this change. It has been reported that as little as 2 to 14 parts per million (ppm) is needed to induce this desirable color change. However, to extend the lifespan of this color change, significantly higher levels are needed. The mechanism responsible for this color change is the formation of nitrosylating agents by nitrite, which has the ability to transfer nitric oxide that subsequently reacts with myoglobin to produce the cured meat color. The unique taste associated with cured meat is also affected by the addition of sodium nitrite. However, the mechanism underlying this change in taste is still not fully understood.\n\nSodium nitrite is also able to effectively delay the development of oxidative rancidity. Lipid oxidation is considered to be a major reason for the deterioration of quality of meat products (rancidity and unappetizing flavors). Sodium nitrite acts as an antioxidant in a mechanism similar to the one responsible for the coloring affect. Nitrite reacts with heme proteins and metal ions, neutralizing free radicals by nitric oxide (one of its byproducts). Neutralization of these free radicals terminates the cycle of lipid oxidation that leads to rancidity.\n\nWhile this chemical will prevent the growth of bacteria, it can be toxic in high amounts for animals and humans. Sodium nitrite's LD in rats is 180 mg/kg and its human LD is 71 mg/kg, meaning a 65 kg person would likely have to consume at least 4.6 g to result in death. To prevent toxicity, sodium nitrite (blended with salt) sold as a food additive is dyed bright pink to avoid mistaking it for plain salt or sugar. Nitrites are not naturally occurring in vegetables in significant quantities. However, nitrates are found in commercially available vegetables and a study in an intensive agricultural area in northern Portugal found residual nitrate levels in 34 vegetable samples, including different varieties of cabbage, lettuce, spinach, parsley and turnips ranged between 54 and 2440 mg/kg, e.g. curly kale (302.0 mg/kg) and green cauliflower (64 mg/kg). Boiling vegetables lowers nitrate but not nitrite. Fresh meat contains 0.4–0.5 mg/kg nitrite and 4–7 mg/kg of nitrate (10–30 mg/kg nitrate in cured meats). The presence of nitrite in animal tissue is a consequence of metabolism of nitric oxide, an important neurotransmitter. Nitric oxide can be created \"de novo\" from nitric oxide synthase utilizing arginine or from ingested nitrate or nitrite.\n\nBecause of sodium nitrite's high level of toxicity to swine (\"Sus scrofa\") it is now being developed in Australia to control feral pigs and wild boar. The sodium nitrite induces methemoglobinemia in swine, i.e. it reduces the amount of oxygen that is released from hemoglobin, so the animal will feel faint and pass out, and then die in a humane manner after first being rendered unconscious. The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department operates a research facility at Kerr Wildlife Management Area, where they examine feral pig feeding preferences and bait tactics to administer sodium nitrite.\n\nA principal concern about sodium nitrite is the formation of carcinogenic nitrosamines in meats containing sodium nitrite when meat is charred or overcooked. Such carcinogenic nitrosamines can also be formed from the reaction of nitrite with secondary amines under acidic conditions (such as occurs in the human stomach) as well as during the curing process used to preserve meats. Dietary sources of nitrosamines include US cured meats preserved with sodium nitrite as well as the dried salted fish eaten in Japan. In the 1920s, a significant change in US meat curing practices resulted in a 69% decrease in average nitrite content. This event preceded the beginning of a dramatic decline in gastric cancer mortality. Around 1970, it was found that ascorbic acid (vitamin C), an antioxidant, inhibits nitrosamine formation. Consequently, the addition of at least 550 ppm of ascorbic acid is required in meats manufactured in the United States. Manufacturers sometimes instead use erythorbic acid, a cheaper but equally effective isomer of ascorbic acid. Additionally, manufacturers may include α-tocopherol (vitamin E) to further inhibit nitrosamine production. α-Tocopherol, ascorbic acid, and erythorbic acid all inhibit nitrosamine production by their oxidation-reduction properties. Ascorbic acid, for example, forms dehydroascorbic acid when oxidized, which when in the presence of nitrosonium, a potent nitrosating agent formed from sodium nitrite, reduces the nitrosonium into nitric oxide. The nitrosonium ion formed in acidic nitrite solutions is commonly mislabeled nitrous anhydride, an unstable nitrogen oxide that cannot exist in vitro.\n\nNitrate or nitrite (ingested) under conditions that result in endogenous nitrosation has been classified as \"probably carcinogenic to humans\" by International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).\n\nSodium nitrite consumption has also been linked to the triggering of migraines in individuals who already suffer from them.\n\nOne study has found a correlation between highly frequent ingestion of meats cured with pink salt and the COPD form of lung disease. The study's researchers suggest that the high amount of nitrites in the meats was responsible; however, the team did not prove the nitrite theory. Additionally, the study does not prove that nitrites or cured meat caused higher rates of COPD, merely a link. The researchers did adjust for many of COPD's risk factors, but they commented they cannot rule out all possible unmeasurable causes or risks for COPD.\n\nCarcinogenic nitrosamines are formed when amines that occur naturally in food react with sodium nitrite found in cured meat products.\n\nIn the presence of acid (such as in the stomach) or heat (such as via cooking), nitrosamines are converted to diazonium ions.\n\nCertain nitrosamines such as \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine and \"N\"-nitrosopyrrolidine form carbocations that react with biological nucleophiles (such as DNA or an enzyme) in the cell.\n\nIf this nucleophilic substitution reaction occurs at a crucial site in a biomolecule, it can disrupt normal cell functions, leading to cancer or cell death.\n\nIndustrial production of sodium nitrite follows one of two processes, the reduction of nitrate salts, or the oxidation of lower nitrogen oxides.\n\nOne method uses molten sodium nitrate as the salt, and lead which is oxidized, while a more modern method uses scrap iron filings to reduce the nitrate.\n\nA more commonly used method involves the general reaction of nitrogen oxides in alkaline aqueous solution, with the addition of a catalyst. The exact conditions depend on which nitrogen oxides are used, and what the oxidant is, as the conditions need to be carefully controlled to avoid over oxidation of the nitrogen atom.\n\nSodium nitrite has also been produced by reduction of nitrate salts by exposure to heat, light, ionizing radiation, metals, hydrogen, and electrolytic reduction.\n\nIn the laboratory, sodium nitrite can be used to destroy excess sodium azide.\n\nAbove 330 °C sodium nitrite decomposes (in air) to sodium oxide, nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide.\n\nSodium nitrite can also be used in the production of nitrous acid via sulfuric acid. This reaction first yields nitrous acid and sodium sulfate:\n\nThe nitrous acid then, under normal conditions, decomposes:\n\nThe nitrogen dioxide of the prior decomposition is then routed through a condensor or fractional distillation apparatus to react with water and yield both nitric and nitrous acids:\n\n"}
{"id": "39391570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39391570", "title": "South Korea Ballistic Missile Range Guidelines", "text": "South Korea Ballistic Missile Range Guidelines\n\nIn 1979, South Korea agreed to ballistic missile guidelines, limiting the country’s ballistic missile development and possession to 180 km in range.\n\nIn 2001, United States officials agreed to extend the range limit to 300 km, which only applied to high-velocity, free flight ballistic missiles, excluding slower, surface-skimming cruise weapons. South Korea developed an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and cruise missile called Hyunmoo-3. The UAV would not have any limitation in range while the cruise missile’s range was 1500 kilometers (930 miles). South Korea's missile ranges were less than North Korea’s missiles such as Rodong (1300 kilometer-ranged ballistic missile) and Taepodong-2 (6000 kilometer-ranged intercontinental ballistic missile).\n\nOn October 6, 2012, after numerous caucuses between South Korea and the U.S., both agreed to extend the ballistic missile range to 800 km. This was shorter than the range South Korea suggested (1000 kilometers) but much longer than the existing 300 km limit.\n\nAfter the latest missile guideline extension, one particular Chinese media reported that South Korea’s ballistic missiles would gain the capability to reach China, Japan, and Russia as well as North Korea. The media showed concerns over the possibility of a South Korean attack on Beijing, should the South’s missile range be extended. Another Chinese media outlet, Shinhwa, evaluated that the extension of the missile range as a violation against the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR). Japan raised concerns of heightened resistance by North Korea. The Russian Department of External Affairs opposed the extension of South Korea’s missile range, through the column of Alexander Lukashcvich, spokesperson of Department of External Affairs. North Korea stated that they would strengthen their military force in response to the extension. North Korea stated that their rockets were capable of reaching South Korea, Japan, Guam, and even the US. North Korea also said they would ‘respond to nuclear weapons with nuclear weapons, and respond to missiles with missiles’ as stated by the National Defense Committee. The National Defense Committee also stated the only thing left was resolute action and that they would show the world an ‘unimaginable war’. Jay Carney, the spokesperson of the White House, briefed that the agreement for extending the missile range was to improve South Korea’s defense capacity to face the threats of North Korea’s ballistic missiles. He also emphasized that the alliance between the U.S. and South Korea focused on the mission to keep the Korean peninsula, and Southeast Asia safe, and the U.S. would keep to their pledge of defending South Korea steadily.\n\nIn 2017 South Korea tested an 800 km range Hyunmoo-2C missile.\n\nOn 4 September 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump agreed “in principle” to scrap a warhead weight limit on South Korea’s missiles in the wake of North Korea’s sixth nuclear test.\n\n"}
{"id": "16588491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16588491", "title": "South Tyrolean Freedom", "text": "South Tyrolean Freedom\n\nThe South Tyrolean Freedom (, STF), officially South Tyrolean Freedom – Free Alliance for Tyrol (\"Süd-Tiroler Freiheit – Freies Bündnis für Tirol\"), is a separatist and national-conservative political party active in South Tyrol, where it seeks to represent the German-speaking population. The party is committed to the South Tyrolean secessionist movement, which entails secession of the Province from Italy and its reunification with the State of Tyrol within Austria.\n\nThe South Tyrolean Freedom emerged as a split from the Union for South Tyrol (UfS) in May 2007. On 8 June 2007 it was notarially founded in Brixen. The founding members were Herbert Campidell, Eva Klotz, Sven Knoll, Reinhold Ladurner, Roland Lang, Sepp Mitterhofer, Werner Thaler and Dietmar Zwerger.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, the party presented a provocative poster campaign with the slogan \"South Tyrol is not Italy\" and the Austrian flag as background. A sign with the same content was set up at the Brenner Pass border, at last in June 2008.\n\nIn April 2009 the STF became a full member of the European Free Alliance, a pan-European organization of regionalist parties. Gudrun Kofler from the STF Youth (\"Junge Süd-Tiroler Freiheit\") was elected as Vice President of the EFA Youth.\n\nIn January 2012 it was reported that the party had reached 2,800 members, a lot more than UfS in its best days.\n\nIn the 2013 provincial election the STF won 7.2%, its record high so far, resulting in three provincial councillors.\n\nIn November 2014 Klotz, who had served in the Provincial Council for 31 consecutive years, announced her resignation from the assembly in order to take care of her husband, who was severely ill.\n\nThe STF sees itself as a \"liberal-patriotic\" party aimed at protecting the German-speaking population of South Tyrol. The party claims South Tyroleans' right to self-determination and to conduct a referendum in order to decide whether they want to be part of Italy or the Austrian state of Tyrol. The party programme also emphasizes the protection of the environment, the defense of family values, a moderately liberal economic policy and the concept of Europe of the regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54147626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54147626", "title": "State Security Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan", "text": "State Security Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan\n\nThe State Security Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan () is a government agency established on the base of Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan. Its Chairman is lieutenant-general Madat Gazanfar Guliyev, and the Deputy Chairman is Ismayıl Baghirov.\n\nState Security Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan was established by Decree 706 of President Ilham Aliyev, dated December 14 2015 on the base of Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan.\n\nThe legal basis of the activities of the State Security Service contains the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the laws and legislative acts of the Republic of Azerbaijan: “Intelligence and counterintelligence activities”, “On national security”, “On the fight against terrorism”, “On operational-investigative activities”, “On state secret” and others, the statute of State Security Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan, decrees and orders of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, resolutions and Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan, central executive bodies` normative legal acts adopted following legislation, international agreements signed by the Republic of Azerbaijan following the laws of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\nState Security Service operates following commitments of observing the human and civil rights and freedom, humanism, the principle of responsibility for the state and society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47849145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47849145", "title": "Supreme Ruthenian Council", "text": "Supreme Ruthenian Council\n\nSupreme Ruthenian Council (, Holovna ruska rada, or HRR) was first legal Ruthenian political organization that existed in 1848-1851.\n\nIt was founded on 2 May 1848 in Lemberg (today Lviv), Austrian Empire as the result of the 1848 Spring of Nations and in response to the earlier created by the local Polish community Central National Council which claim itself as the representative body of the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. In its manifest of 10 May 1848 the council declared about the unity of all 15 million Ukrainian people and expressed its support for all people of the Austrian Empire.\n\nThe organization had three main political requests.\n\nSupreme Ruthenian Council consisted of 30 members who were representatives of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church and intelligentsia. Head of the council was elected bishop of Premissel Hryhoriy Yakhymovych, later canon Mykhailo Kuzemsky. Yakhymovych's assistants were Mykhailo Kuzemsky and Ivan Borysykevych. The council contained several departments.\n\nThree members of the organization attended the Prague Slavic Congree in June 1848.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3494783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3494783", "title": "The Student Room", "text": "The Student Room\n\nThe Student Room Group (often referred to as TSR) is a UK based privately held student community company. It owns three major student facing websites:\n\nAs well as TheStudentRoom.co.uk, the company also owns MarkedByTeachers.com and GetRevising.co.uk. Its corporate website is TSRMatters.com.\n\nThis article is about the company as a whole, which refers to itself as The Student Room.\n\nThe Student Room (often abbreviated to TSR), established in 1999, is a large United Kingdom based community and social learning website for school and university students. It claims to be the no.1 UK education site according to Comscore media metrix web statistics.\n\nIt connects students with other students so that they can make more informed education choices, get help with their studies, and get support with student life.\n\nAs of January 2014, the site has over 1.35 million members and 45 million posts, and gets over 6.5 Million visitors per month.\n\nIn May 2013 the site incorporated versions of sites MarkedbyTeachers.com and GetRevising.co.uk to form a new social learning section called Learn Together.\n\nwww.markedbyteachers.com uses selected examples of real student work to help students learn. It has 150,000+ pieces of work written by UK students, of which many are also critiqued by UK teachers or peer reviewed by students.\n\nwww.getrevising.co.uk contains a broad range of supplementary social learning tools including flashcards, quizzes, word searches, mindmaps, crosswords, revision notes, quiz searches and revision cards. Students create their own resources which they can then share with peers.\n\nGet Revising is also home to a study planner & revision timetable creator.\n\n\nThe Student Room also runs its own annual \"Student in a Million\" awards, to identify inspirational UK students. In 2013 David Willetts MP, Minister for Universities and Science, presented the awards whilst also opening The Student Room's new Brighton office.\n\nThe Student Room Group has a range of high-profile partnerships in the student information space.\n\n\nThe Student Room Group is run by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chris Newson, along with his leadership team, Pete Barnes (Chief Operating Officer), Marcus Palmer (Chief Financial Officer), Dave Ray (Chief Marketing Officer), and Rob Hardy (Sales Director).\n\nThere are around 70 employees based out of their Brighton office.\n\nChris Newson (username \"ChrisN\") is the Chairman, CEO and largest shareholder of The Student Room Group.\n\nThe Student Room sites are run by a team of over 150 volunteer Section Leaders, Support Team Members, Community Assistants, Wiki Support Team Members, Personal Statement Helpers, CV Helpers & Specialist Advisers \n\nSection Leaders are long standing model TSR users handpicked for their understanding of TSR and their leadership skills. They specialise in and oversee a specific section of TSR and work closely with the Support Team in that section.\nThe majority of a Section Leader's time is taken up responding to specific user enquiries and providing support and leadership to the other Support Team members. Section Leaders have the final say on moderation matters. They work closely with the Community Team and the entire user community making sure the Members interests are adequately represented.\n\nSupport Team members are active and respected members within a specific forum or group of forums. They are selected for their keen interest and positive contributions within that area of TSR.\n\nSupport Team members are responsible for the day-to-day organisation, moderation and wellbeing of their site area(s). This encompasses everything from patrolling the forum for inappropriate or incorrectly placed posts and threads, dealing with disputes to answering queries and developing articles on the Wiki.\n\nIn addition, Support Team members work with users in their site area to make recommendations to the Community Team on improvements that could enhance their sub community on TSR. This could be updates to the forum; but also wider resources such as articles, blogs, photos, partnership suggestions etc.\n\nCommunity Assistants support the Support Team operating in a particularly 'admin intensive' area of the site.\nThey are responsible for keeping their specific forum area orderly, by moving posts, merging threads and tagging threads appropriately.\n\nCommunity Assistants are chosen either by the members of TSR within a sub-community of the site (in the case of the House of Commons and the Model UN) or by the Support Team (in the case of the Personal Statement forum assistants) to perform an important auxiliary role.\n\nThe Wiki Support Team (WST) are members who have shown an interest in the Articles section of the site. Part of their role means they are responsible for patrolling edits that are made to the articles to ensure there is no vandalism or advertising occurring.\n\nThey also are active in editing the articles themselves and may try to coordinate efforts within the wider site community to develop certain groups of articles. In addition the WST takes a role in discussing the development and improvements to the articles section in the About Wiki forum.\n\nPS Helpers are university undergrads or graduates who volunteer to help other students who are planning to apply through UCAS with the wording of their Personal Statement.\n\nTSR Members can submit a draft of their statement that they would like critiqued into one of the Personal Statement Helper Forums. Only PS Helpers are able to see any of these submissions.\n\nAnyone can apply to become a PS Helper, as long as they are at University or have graduated.\n\nCV Helpers are usually people have entered full-time work who volunteer to help other Members who are planning to apply for jobs through the wording of their CVs and cover letters.\n\nTSR Members can submit a draft of their CV or cover letter that they would like critiqued into the CV Helper Forum. Only CV Helpers are able to see any of these submissions.\n\nThough there are currently enough CV Helpers, anyone may become one once you have entered full-time work.\n\nSpecialist Advisers have a particular specialism or expertise that enables them to impart reputable and credible help to TSR users. They may be people from TSR or from outside of the community who help out by share their knowledge and experience with others.\n\nA TSR Member may be approached by Admin to become a Specialist Adviser if they have demonstrated that they have a positive persona on the site and are suitably knowledgeable about a topic covered in one of the TSR forums. Alternatively Admin may approach an external professional partner to provide a Specialist Adviser service into an area that it is felt into which real benefit could be given.\n\nThe main sections of the site are:\n\n\nThe site is designed as a place for UK students and those looking to study at UK universities to find information about studying, courses and careers. There is however a significant international element (who have their own sub forum).\n\nAnother section of the site allows members to use a free personal statement checking service for university admissions. Members may post their personal statement in a forum ready for checking. For privacy, only the poster and members of the checking and administration teams (the former consisting of students already at university) may view the statement.\n\nFor paying members, when this was such a thing, there was a hidden section consisting of around two hundred arcade games and competition league tables, as well as a secret sub-forum. There are also several other benefits to subscribing to the service, which includes access to Learn Together (see above), custom User Titles and larger avatars.\n\nA large part of The Student Room is the discussion forum, of which the major sections are:\n\n\nIn total the whole site has well over 300 forums and sub forums.\n\nThe \"Debate and Discussion\" section of the forum also hosts a Model Parliament based on the UK Parliamentary system. The Model House of Commons [MHoC] is run by an elected Speaker and is made up of 50 MPs who create and vote on legislation including bills, motions and petitions. Anyone is free to join the MHoC and they can do so by applying to one of the six parties that operate there: the Labour Party, the Conservative & Unionist Party, the Liberal Party, the Libertarian Party, the Socialist Party and National Conservative Party (formerly UKIP). These parties have no affiliation with any real-life party and can have somewhat different ideological stances to real-life parties of the same name. A governmental term lasts 6 months, and the MHoC is currently in its 26th (XXVI) Parliament. The current government is a Conservative/Liberal/National Conservative minority government with Labour in official opposition.\n\nAs well as the forum, the site has developed its own wiki: the TSR Wiki. Written and edited by students on a range of academic, university, careers & life subjects. This provides a reference source for prospective and current UK students on matters of institutions, examinations, courses, applying and going to university, student travel, night life, careers and health, and other general topics of interest to students. Two of the largest sections of the wiki provided a wide range of revision notes, covering many subjects from GCSE level through to University level. It also offers dozens of examples of personal statements used to apply to UK universities and colleges. The most popular part of the wiki at the moment however is the Model House of Commons section which provides details of the MHoC Constitution, Hansard and details of all the parties.\n\nThe forum was created in around 2001 under the name \"UK Learning\" as a site for students at university to talk to each other. Since then the forum has grown in popularity and developed into a forum consisting of dozens of sub-forums and thousands of new posts daily. In late 2004 the forum saw a change to its present name of \"The Student Room\".\n\nUK Learning was originally a portal site, the purpose of which was to push traffic towards profit-oriented sites offering various educational resources such as sample coursework, essays and personal statements. The remainder of the site was a vBulletin-based discussion forum, most of the content of which was derived from usenet posts to which users of the forum could respond through the forum rather than via a usenet client, which enabled the site to rapidly build content (and thus search engine driven traffic) while having only a small user base.\n\nThus, UK Learning/The Student Room has never been a profit-oriented site in itself, though as noted above it does attempt to generate income in the form of optional subscriptions paid by users of the site, advertising banners and voluntary donations from users as a means to offset the large running costs of the site. The connection to the aforementioned profit-oriented sites can still be seen on The Student Room but are no longer the focus of the site.\n\nIn mid-2002 the portal aspect of the site was dropped in favour of focusing the site around the discussion forum, and the site has remained roughly in this state since.\n\nIn early 2006 the company which owns TSR was taken over. This new owner, known as CN, set about adding advertisements to the site in order to generate revenue for the running costs. This angered several users as a fundraising drive had recently been held, placement of the advertisements was widely considered intrusive and detrimental, and some of the advertisements were arguably inappropriate.\n\nIn mid-2006 the owner, CN, detailed ideas for the future of The Student Room; as part of this, CN met a small group of the moderators at a meeting in London. Many ideas were put forward and plans discussed, and over the next few months preparatory work took place for The Student Room to undergo a facelift with the addition of many improvements to attract new members, and on 19 September 2007 the new look website was launched.\n\nIn summer 2004 the forum was also the subject of media coverage after examination questions, from papers yet to be sat, were leaked onto the forum. The user claimed the questions were sample exam questions based on the Edexcel Mathematics exam he was sitting the next day, and asked for help from other users.\n\nIn May 2007 the site was heavily quoted by the BBC in an article relating to problems faced in an OCR A Level Biology Practical exam after reports to the media from an unnamed member. Some users on the site appeared to have been told far too much about the practical exam by their teachers while others heavily criticised and complained about the difficulty of the exam afterwards. A similar incident was reported in May 2008, again following discussion on OCR Biology A2 practical exams.\n\nFollowing A Level results day in 2007, the wiki section of the site was mentioned in an article in the independent about preparing for university. It mentioned how TSR has a pretty much exhaustive list of what a student had to take to university with them.\n\nThe site was also mentioned on 16 August 2007 in 'crucial contacts' list for higher education on Nottingham Evening Post website.\n\nIn August 2008, the site was featured in a half page article in The Times as part of their students supplement produced for the A Level results day. The article looked at the content of the site, picking out key features such as the university discussion forums and the personal statement help section.\n\nIn February 2009, The Student Room and DIUS (Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills) worked together to produce a resource for people over the age of 21 considering going back to education. The minisite features an interactive map of universities across the country, video interviews with mature students and profiles of members who went to university as a mature student.\n\nIn October 2013, the website decided to turn off a feature known as 'negative reputation' (or neg rep for short) which allowed users to negatively rate other users' posts. It was claimed by the moderators that the feature put people off expressing their opinions. The change was met with much consternation, with many users calling for the drastic move's reversal; a few users supported the move as well.\n\n\n"}
