{"id": "32367000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32367000", "title": "1000 Meisterwerke", "text": "1000 Meisterwerke\n\n1000 Meisterwerke (1000 Masterpieces) was a German art series. It followed the highly successful German \"100 Meisterwerke\". From 1981 through 1994, the German broadcaster WDR produced the series (originally aired from 1980 and named \"100 Meisterwerke aus den großen Museen der Welt\"; \"100 Masterworks from the Great Museums of the World\"), which was broadcast by ARD, ORF and BR. In each of the 10-minute broadcasts, a single painting was presented and analyzed by an art historian. The Sunday evening broadcasts had five million viewers.\n\n"}
{"id": "30863549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863549", "title": "Actors Theatre of Louisville", "text": "Actors Theatre of Louisville\n\nActors Theatre of Louisville is a non-profit performing arts theater located in downtown Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nActors Theatre was founded in 1964 following the merging of two local companies, Actors, Inc. and Theatre Louisville, operated by Louisville natives Ewel Cornett and Richard Block. Designated as the \"State Theater of Kentucky\" in 1974, the theatre has been called one of America's most consistently innovative professional theatre companies, with an annual attendance of 150,000.\n\nThe theatre presents almost 400 performances annually, including classics and contemporary work through the Brown-Forman Series, holiday plays, a series of free theatrical events produced by the Professional Training Company, and the Humana Festival of New American Plays. In addition, the theatre provides arts experiences to students across the region through its education department and supports a pre-professional resident training program, the Professional Training Company.\n\nThe theatre has been the recipient of a Tony Award for Distinguished Achievement, the James N. Vaughan Memorial Award for Exceptional Achievement and Contribution to the Development of Professional Theatre, and the Margo Jones Award for the Encouragement of New Plays. The theater has toured to 29 cities and 15 countries. Currently, there are more than 50 published books of plays and criticism from the theater in circulation—including anthologies of Humana Festival plays, volumes of ten-minute plays and monologues, and essays, scripts and lectures from the Brown-Forman Classics in Context Festival. Numerous plays first produced at the theatre have also been published as individual acting editions.\n\nThe Humana Festival has introduced nearly 450 plays into the American and international theatre's general repertoire, including three Pulitzer Prize winners—\"The Gin Game\" by D. L. Coburn, \"Crimes of the Heart\" by Beth Henley and \"Dinner with Friends\" by Donald Margulies—as well as Marsha Norman's \"Getting Out\", John Pielmeier's \"Agnes of God\", Charles Mee's \"Big Love\", Naomi Iizuka's \"Polaroid Stories\" and \"At the Vanishing Point\", Jane Martin's \"Anton in Show Business\", Rinne Groff's \"The Ruby Sunrise\", Theresa Rebeck's \"The Scene\", Gina Gionfriddo's \"After Ashley\" and \"Becky Shaw\", UNIVERSES' \"Ameriville\", Rude Mechs' \"The Method Gun\", Jordan Harrison's \"Maple and Vine\", Will Eno's \"Gnit\", Branden Jacobs-Jenkins' \"Appropriate\", and Lucas Hnath's \"Death Tax\" and \"The Christians\". More than 380 Humana Festival plays have been published in anthologies and individual acting editions.\n\nThe Humana Festival draws theater lovers, journalists, and film and stage producers from around the world. About 36,000 patrons attend the five weeks of plays and associated events, which includes a dedicated weekend for college students, which annually attracts students from more than 40 colleges and universities. The Festival culminates in two Industry Weekends which bring together a collection of amazing new plays with one-of-a-kind panels, cocktail parties, discussions and networking events. \n\nIn May 1969, Jon Jory, the son of stage and screen star Victor Jory was appointed the theater's new producing director. During this three decades in Louisville he produced more than 1,300 plays, increased Actors Theatre's budget from $244,000 to $8.3 million. His Louisville debut was in October 1969 with Dylan Thomas' \"Under Milk Wood\". Former Executive Director, Alexander Speer, whose tenure of forty years began in 1965, became Jory's partner and led the theater's administration and operations until his retirement in the spring of 2006.\n\nMarc Masterson was appointed the company's new Artistic Director in 2000. He had previously served as producing director of City Theatre in Pittsburgh. During his tenure at Actors Theatre, Masterson produced more than 200 plays and expanded and established an Education Department consisting of public outreach programs including classroom workshops, artists in the schools, increased weekday student matinées, backstage tours and professional development for teachers and community center leaders. Masterson left Actors Theatre in 2011 to become artistic director at South Coast Repertory in California.\n\nFollowing a national search, Obie Award-winning director Les Waters was named artistic director on November 29, 2011, and assumed full-time duties at the theater in January 2012. A strong proponent of contemporary work and imaginative adaptations of classic materials, Waters is widely regarded as one of the most influential directors working in America today. In November 2017, Waters announced that the season would be his last. He left Louisville in summer 2018 to pursue his freelance directing career. \n\nThe original home of Actors Theatre was an open loft—the former Egyptian Tea Room—above the Taylor Trunk Company on Fourth Street in downtown Louisville. In 1965, the theater relocated to the former site of the Illinois Central Railway Station on Seventh Street and River Road. The space was transformed by Architect Jasper Ward into a 350-seat theatre. In the fall of 1969, the city announced that the train station was to be demolished to make way for a connector highway. In October 1972, the theater relocated to the newly renovated Old Bank of Louisville building on Main Street, where it remains to this day. The building that became Actors Theatre was a merging of two buildings: the 1837 James H. Dakin-designed Old Bank of Louisville (which is a National Historic Landmark) and the Myers-Thompson Display Building. In 2004 the theatre acquired a production studio at 9th and Magnolia Streets in the Old Louisville neighborhood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27989315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27989315", "title": "Alicia Gallagher", "text": "Alicia Gallagher\n\nAlicia Harding (also Metcalfe and Gallagher) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Emmerdale\", played by Natalie Anderson. She made her first screen appearance during the episode broadcast on 11 August 2010. Alicia was introduced as the sister of established character Leyla Harding (Roxy Shahidi). On 24 May 2015, it was announced that Anderson had quit the show and Alicia made her final on-screen appearance on 10 September 2015.\n\nOn 23 May 2010, it was announced that Anderson had joined the cast of \"Emmerdale\" as Alicia, the estranged sister of established character Leyla Harding (Roxy Shahidi). Of her casting, Anderson commented \"I'm absolutely thrilled to be joining the show. It'll be wonderful to be working back home in Yorkshire again. I'm a Yorkshire girl so a part in \"Emmerdale\" is a dream come true!\" Anderson revealed that she had known the series producer for a long time and had previously auditioned for a role in another soap opera in front of him, so when the part of Alicia came up he thought of her and asked her to audition. Series producer Gavin Blyth stated that Anderson was \"a wonderful addition to the cast\" and said Alicia would stir things up in Leyla's life from the minute she arrives. Anderson initially signed a six-month contract and began filming in June. She made her screen debut as Alicia in August.\n\nUpon her introduction, Alicia was described as being \"in-your-face\" and \"trashy\" by Steve Hendry from the \"Sunday Mail\". Anderson told the reporter, \"She's bold and she's brassy and she does have quite a hard exterior. She is an extremely protective alpha-female. She is like a lioness of her pride, she will protect her family from anything.\" The actress said Alicia can display a vulnerable side and she was hoping that after a few episodes, viewers would get to see why she is the way she is. She also explained that there are many levels to Alicia and despite her initial appearance, she is anything but a bimbo. Alicia was not happy to see her estranged sister, Leyla, but Anderson did not think Alicia hated Leyla. She said \"Alicia is the older, more dominant sister who has the potential to spoil everything Leyla has created in the village.\" A writer for the show's official website described Alicia as being spontaneous, hard-working and driven. A \"What's on TV\" writer called Alicia \"a brazen, spiteful, mouthy barmaid\".\n\nAnderson worked closely with the make-up and wardrobe teams to make Alicia look \"as extreme as possible.\" Alicia's distinctive look is made up of fake tan, long nails, hair extensions and lots of gold jewellery. She also wears a lot of high heels and mini skirts. Anderson commented that she also wears extra-padded bras to make her breasts look bigger. Anderson thought Alicia saw herself as glamorous, but said that her idea of glamorous and Alicia's was very different. The actress told Hendry that Alicia was not based on anyone in particular, but a type of girl who is often seen hanging around the city centre. She added that Alicia was quite unlike herself and she was excited to be seen in a different light. Katie Begley from the \"Daily Star\" observed that Alicia was a wannabe WAG.\n\nAlicia was introduced along with her husband, Justin (Andrew Langtree), and their son, Jacob (Joe Warren-Plant). Anderson told Digital Spy's Daniel Kilkelly that Alicia dotes on her son and \"loves him to pieces\", but things between her and her husband were strained when they first arrived. Anderson called Alicia \"a strong family woman\", who wanted to be a good wife and mother. Alicia came to the village to warn her sister, Leyla, not to attend their recently deceased mother's funeral. Anderson thought her character would be disliked straight away because of her introduction. Leyla ignored Alicia's warning and turned up at the funeral, where the two sisters had \"a screaming match\" at each other. Alicia was annoyed with Leyla, but Anderson said she respected that it was Leyla's mother too and she had a right to be there. When asked what had caused the issue, Anderson explained \"All I can really say is that something has definitely gone on between them! What it is will be revealed in the next few weeks. The biggest clue I can give is that Alicia is fiercely protective of her family unit and she doesn't want anything to come between that. So you can read into that what you want!\"\n\nAnderson added that Alicia does not want to cause trouble, but she does not want her sister around. The actress hoped that viewers could see that despite the bad blood between them, the sisters were close and that they did love each other. It later emerged that Leyla was the biological mother of Jacob, not Alicia. Shahidi thought Leyla just wanted to be Jacob's aunt and treat him like anyone would treat their nephew. The actress also believed that Alicia would definitely be worried that Leyla would want to play a bigger part in Jacob's life because she is his biological mother. Shahidi said that it is something the two sisters would have to sort out for themselves. In October 2013, Alicia was forced to tell Jacob that she was not his mother, as she believed Priya Sharma (Fiona Wade) was going to do it instead. While attending a Halloween party, Alicia noticed Priya getting drunk and became worried, so she decided to tell Jacob the truth. Speaking to a \"What's on TV\" reporter, Anderson admitted that the scene was heartbreaking for her to film. She continued \"This woman has looked after this little boy for 10 years and has to tell him she's not his mum. He cries his eyes out.\" Alicia's worst fear then came true when Jacob ran away.\n\nFollowing a brief fling with Declan Macey (Jason Merrells), Alicia had a relationship with Andy Sugden (Kelvin Fletcher). Alicia learned all about Andy's troubled past and told her sister that it was ancient history as far as she was concerned. Anderson told Kate Woodward from \"Inside Soap\" that Alicia could pack a punch and Andy had one chance, so if he blew it, Alicia would be off. Anderson explained that Alicia really liked that Andy was down-to-earth and just wanted to have a family, work on the farm and come home for his tea. She said Alicia shared the same sentiments and did not have big ambitions. Fletcher and Anderson came up with the idea of Alicia being a fan of pop group Take That and so Andy buys Alicia tickets to see them live. Anderson said Alicia was flattered by the gift and loved that Andy had thought of her. Andy and Alicia's relationship went through a rough patch when Andy offered to loan Alicia some money and then tried to get her a job at the local veterinary surgery.\n\nAnderson told Woodward, \"Alicia is an incredibly proud person and thinks she's confided in Andy alone about her situation. So the fact he's gone behind her back and talked about her problems with other people makes her absolutely furious.\" Alicia was hurt that Andy had taken her confidential worries to someone else. Anderson hoped the couple would be able to work out their issues and get their relationship back on track. Alicia later became involved in the show's saviour sibling storyline, which saw Andy agree to have another baby with Debbie Dingle (Charley Webb) in a bid to save his sick daughter Sarah Sugden Jr. (Sophia Amber Moore). Alicia tried to be supportive, but her feelings surrounding her own infertility made it hard for her to deal with her boyfriend having a baby with someone else. Anderson stated that Alicia was aware of ill Sarah was, but there was a point at which she would have to \"a huge decision\" about her relationship with Andy.\n\nWhen Justin began spoiling Jacob, Alicia felt that like she could not compete, which upset her. Alicia did not have enough money coming in to meet the demands of a seven-year-old. Deciding that she needed to give Jacob the perfect birthday, Alicia began stealing from Leyla's shop. Alicia stole cigarettes and alcohol from the stockroom and sold them on. Anderson explained that Alicia resorts to stealing because of a gift Justin sent to Jacob, which she knows will be great. During the burglary, David Metcalfe (Matthew Wolfenden) and Leyla hear a noise, but Alicia has gone by the time they investigate. Alicia's financial worries affected her relationship with her sister and things became strained between them. Alicia was forced to admit to stealing from the shop when Leyla accused employee Amy Wyatt (Chelsea Halfpenny) of committing the thefts. Alicia begged Leyla for forgiveness and admitted to stealing so she could buy Jacob presents. However, Leyla was \"furious\" and ordered her sister to pack her bags and leave her house.\n\nAlicia and Jacob went to stay with Andy, who made it clear that it was not a permanent arrangement. He was also shocked that Alicia had resorted to stealing from the shop. The sisters eventually called a truce, after Leyla asked Andy to convince Alicia to come back home. Leyla missed Jacob and found it hard to cope without him around. Andy became curious about Alicia and Leyla's relationship and he pressed Alicia for more information. A show spokesperson commented \"She really struggles to talk openly about the situation with Andy. But he's insistent – they can't have any secrets if their relationship has a hope in hell of working.\" Alicia then admitted that she was not Jacob's biological mother. Andy was shocked by the news, but glad that she had confided in him. Alicia also revealed that she felt huge pressure to compete with Leyla and Justin to be a good parent and Andy realised how much Alicia had been hurting. Meanwhile, David was unhappy that Leyla had apologised to Alicia about their argument and worried that if Alicia moved back in, there could be trouble and they could fall out again.\n\nOn 19 March 2012, Anderson announced that she was four-and-a-half months pregnant, and joked that she would have to conceal her bump on-screen with large handbags and by standing behind the bar, before going on maternity leave. Alicia was temporarily written out of the show and her exit storyline saw her sent to prison, after she punched Val Pollard (Charlie Hardwick) in the face. Of learning about the storyline, Anderson said \"When I told the show I was pregnant I had no idea what they were going to do. I had absolutely no say and, to be honest, I really thought they would say, 'She's gone off in a taxi to see her sister', something really normal, and that would be that. Then this elaborate story came about with a previous conviction and I was going, 'thank you'. I just thought it was brilliant. It's really good fun and comic in a lot of ways. I felt privileged they had thought of it that way.\" The actress was six-and-a-half months pregnant when she filmed Alicia's exit. The storyline began with Alicia declaring her love for David Metcalfe (Matthew Wolfenden). After Val interrupted, Alicia ended up punching her. When Val reported her to the police, it emerged that Alicia had broken the terms of a previous suspended sentence and she was sent to prison. Before she went, Alicia married David, so he could look after Jacob for her. Alicia returned on 18 December 2012, while Anderson signed a new one-year contract.\n\nIn June 2013, Alicia began dating village newcomer Dom Andrews (Wil Johnson), despite still harbouring feelings for David. Johnson told Digital Spy's Daniel Kilkelly that Dom liked Alicia \"a lot\" and wanted to make a go of things with her. He was unaware of how deep Alicia's feelings were for David, as he did not know about her history. He commented \"It's been quite a slow process with Dom and Alicia, and I think that's because Dom also has to protect himself because of his own history.\" Dom's teenage daughter Gemma (Tendai Rinomhota) did not approve of Alicia, who quickly realised that she was \"a daddy's girl\". When Dom found a positive pregnancy test in his home, he assumed it belonged to Gemma. However, Alicia surprised them both when she claimed the pregnancy test belonged to her. Dom later asked Alicia to move in with him and Gemma, but she did not react well. When asked if Dom and Alicia should be together, Johnson replied that they should as they are right for other. He added \"Time will tell if their hearts are truly committed to each other.\"\nOn 24 May 2015, it was announced that Anderson would leave \"Emmerdale\" at the end of her contract in the latter half of 2015. On-screen, Alicia had been sexually attacked by teenager Lachlan White (Thomas Atkinson) and he had only recently confessed to the crime. Alicia persisted on a new start with David and Jacob in Portugal. Speaking of her decision, Anderson said \"I've had the most incredible five years at \"Emmerdale\" and made some wonderful friends. I'm so grateful to the writers, directors, producers and everyone I've worked with. This year has been such a highlight and so amazing that I felt now was the right time to say bye to Alicia and see what the future holds.\" On 3 June, Alicia, David and Jacob were seen leaving the village for Portugal, but it was later confirmed that this was not Alicia's final exit scenes. A show spokesperson explained that Anderson's departure would air later in the year. Anderson revealed her reason behind quitting the soap on \"Lorraine\", stating that she left to spend more time with her three-year-old son, Freddie, \"\"To be honest, the main thing was my little boy. I went back to work really early after I had him... he was 11 weeks old when I went back to work.\" She continued to state how the show's filming schedule proved too much for her, especially when she would \"go a week\" without seeing her son. It had also recently been revealed that Alicia would leave without her husband David. Alicia's exit scenes aired on 10 September 2015.\n\nAlicia comes to the village to warn her sister Leyla to stay away from their mother's funeral. Leyla attends anyway and Alicia tells her not to expect a reconciliation. Alicia returns when her marriage to Justin breaks down and she argues with Leyla, revealing that she adopted Leyla's son, Jacob. Their mother had persuaded Leyla to allow Alicia to adopt him as Alicia is infertile. Leyla asks Alicia and Jacob to move in with her and her boyfriend, David Metcalfe, and Alicia gets a job in The Woolpack. When Jacob has an allergic reaction to some nuts, Alicia accuses Leyla of neglecting him. She also feuds with Chas Dingle (Lucy Pargeter) and Eve Jenson (Suzanne Shaw). Alicia flirts with Nathan Wylde (Lyndon Ogbourne) and Leyla warns Alicia not to trust him. Alicia also flirts with Declan Macey (Jason Merrells) and he invites her to a housewarming party at Home Farm. Alicia and Declan flirt as he shows her around and he invites her upstairs, but his ex-wife and his daughter arrive and Alicia leaves. After an argument with her ex-husband, Alicia meets Declan at The Woolpack and they have a drink together, before she goes home with him.\n\nLeyla and Alicia argue about Jacob and her going out at night, but Jacob overhears them. Alicia soon discovers that Jacob has run away and blames Leyla, but Justin blames her. The police are called in and Alicia gives a press conference. Justin tells Alicia that he is Jacob's biological father and Leyla admits they had a one-night stand. David finds Jacob in an abandoned building and comforts him as he is taken to hospital. Alicia refuses to give Justin access to Jacob and he threatens to go for custody, but Leyla defends Alicia. Alicia is furious when Justin collects Jacob from school without informing her. She reveals her fear that Jacob will hate her as a result of Justin spoiling him. Leyla tells Alicia that she should not stop Justin seeing Jacob, as Jacob misses him. Alicia later calls Justin and agrees that he can have access to their son. Alicia begins dating Andy Sugden. When she suffers financial problems, Andy offers her a loan, but she refuses to take his money. Andy then tries to get her a job at the veterinary surgery, but she tells him not to interfere in her life.\n\nWhen Andy and Debbie Dingle find out that their daughter needs a bone marrow transplant, they decide to conceive a saviour sibling. Alicia supports Andy, but is dismayed when he and Debbie have sex to conceive the baby. Alicia struggles with the situation and she and Andy break up. Alicia turns to David for support and she moves back in with him. Although David views their friendship as platonic, Alicia finds herself developing feelings for him. When Val Pollard berates David for allowing her husband to begin a new relationship, Alicia becomes angry and punches Val. Val reports her to the police and Alicia is charged with assault. It emerges that Alicia has a prior conviction for assault and has a suspended sentence. Worried that Justin will take Jacob, David suggests to Alicia that they marry so he can be Jacob's guardian. Alicia agrees and they marry. She then admits her true feelings to David, but he tells her he does not feel the same. Alicia is then sentenced to a year in prison.\n\nWhen Alicia is released from prison, she is upset to learn that David is now dating Priya Sharma. Weeks later Alicia begins dating Dominic Andrews, although his daughter, Gemma, does not like her. Alicia realises her true feelings for David and goes to his house to tell him, but Priya answers the door and tells a stunned Alicia that the couple are now engaged. This devastates Alicia, but she soon has to concentrate on her new family with Dom when he discovers that Gemma is pregnant. Gemma confides in Alicia about her mother walking out on her and Dom, the pregnancy and her feud with Belle Dingle (Eden Taylor-Draper). During a siege in The Woolpack, Cameron Murray holds several residents hostage, including Alicia, David and Priya. Alicia is accidentally shot by Cameron and she starts to succumb to her injury, before Cameron allows David to take her out of the pub. Alicia is rushed to hospital where she is treated and later resuscitated. David and Alicia admit their feelings for one another and they begin a relationship, which devastates Priya and Dom. Believing Priya will tells Jacob that she is not his mother, Alicia and David sit him down and tell him the truth. Jacob is upset and runs away to stay with Priya. Alicia and David soon get engaged and immediately book a Christmas wedding. After a few incidents before the wedding, Alicia and David marry. On the same day, Leyla returns and the sisters argue. Leyla tells Alicia that her boss is calling her and is working as a recruitment consultant. Alicia doesn't believe the story and finds out that Leyla is actually impersonating her as a stripper. Leyla and Alicia have a heart to heart and with the realisation that Leyla isn't coping, she lets her sister stay in her house.\n\nThe following year, Alicia is sexually assaulted by Lachlan White (Thomas Atkinson), after he misunderstands her friendliness for affection. The ordeal causes Alicia to breakdown. When Val's son, Paul, offers her and David to run a bar with him in Lisbon, they accept. David and Alicia leave the village. David makes a return when Eric has a heart attack. Alicia joins him, after Val is killed in an explosion. Alicia and David try to console a grieving Eric, but Alicia tells David that she wants to return to Portugal. However, David refuses and reveals that he bought the shop and needs to be there for his father. Realising they want different things, Alicia and David break up and she leaves to Portugal the next day. Alicia then files for a divorce.\n\nIn 2015, Anderson was nominated for Best Actress at the \"British Soap Awards\". When Alicia arrived, Katie Begley from the \"Daily Star\" commented \"If \"Emmerdale\" suddenly finds itself facing a shortage of push-up bras, fake tan and hair extensions then we know exactly who to blame – brassy newcomer Alicia Gallagher.\" Kerry Barrett from \"All About Soap\" branded Alicia a \"mouthy mum\" and said she could not help feel sorry for her, as she is \"desperately\" in love with David. When Alicia was shot, Barrett's colleague Mark James Lowe quipped \"Our hearts were in our mouths as we watched the docs desperately trying to resuscitate poor Alicia. Is it only us who thought she was a goner for a moment there?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4565774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565774", "title": "Amarakosha", "text": "Amarakosha\n\nThe Amarakosha (Devanagari: अमरकोशः, IAST: Amarakośa) is the popular name for \"Namalinganushasanam\" (Devanagari: नामलिङ्गानुशासनम्, IAST: Nāmaliṅgānuśāsanam) a thesaurus in Sanskrit written by the ancient Indian scholar Amarasimha. It is the oldest extant kosha. The author himself mentions 18 prior works, but they have all been lost. There have been more than 40 commentaries on the \"Amarakosha\".\n\nThe word \"Amarakosha\" derives from the Sanskrit words \"amara\" (\"immortal\") and \"kosha\" (\"treasure, casket, pail, collection, dictionary\").\nThe actual name of the book \"Namalinganushasanam\" means \"instruction concerning nouns and gender\".\n\nAmarasimha is said to have been one of the Navaratnas (\"nine gems\") at the court of Chandragupta II, a Gupta king who reigned around AD 400. Some sources indicate that he belonged to the period of Vikramaditya of 7th century.\n\nMirashi examines the question of the date of composition of \"Amarakosha\". He finds the first reliable mention in Amoghavritti of Shakatayana composed during the reign of Amoghavarsha(814-867CE)\n\nThe \"Amarakosha\" consists of verses that can be easily memorized. It is divided into three s or chapters. The first, ' (\"heaven and others\") has words pertaining to gods and heavens. The second, ' (\"earth and others\") deals with words about earth, towns, animals and humans. The third, \"\" (\"common\") has words related to grammar and other miscellaneous words.\n\n\"Svargadhikanda\", the first Kanda of the \"Amarakosha\" begins with the verse 'Svaravyam swarganakathridivatrishalaya..' describing various names of Heaven viz. Sva, Avya, swarga, Naka, Tridiva, Tridasalaya etc. The second verse 'Amara, nirjara, deva,’ describes various words that are equivalent to word God. The fifth and sixth verses give various names of Gautama Buddha. The following verses give the different names of Brahma, Vishnu, Vasudeva, Balarama, etc. All these names are treated with great reverence which makes it difficult to ascertain Amara Sinha's theological bent.\n\nThe second Kanda, \"Bhuvargadhikanda\", of the \"Amarakosha\" is divided into ten Vargas or parts. The ten Vargas are \"Bhuvarga\" (Earth), \"Puravarga\" (Towns or Cities), \"Shailavarga\" (Mountains), \"Vanoshadivarga\" (Forests and medicines), \"Simhadivarga\" (Lions and other animals), \"Manushyavarga\" (Mankind), \"Bramhavarga\" (Brahmin), \"Kshatriyavarga\" (Kshatriyas), \"Vysyavarga\" (Vysyas) and \"Sudravarga\" (Sudras).\n\nThe Third Kanda, \"Samanyadhikanda\" contains Adjectives, Verbs, words related to prayer and business etc. The first verse \"Kshemankaroristatathi Shivathathi Shivamkara\" gives the Nanarthas of the word Shubakara or propitious as Kshemankara, Aristathathi, Shivathathi and Shivamkara.\n\n\n\"Gunaratha\" of Ujjain translated it to Chinese in the 7th century.\n\nThe Pali thesaurus \"Abhidhānappadīpikā\", composed in the twelfth century by the grammarian Moggallāna Thera, is based on the \"Amarakosha\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2234169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234169", "title": "Angelique Bouchard Collins", "text": "Angelique Bouchard Collins\n\nAngelique Bouchard is a fictional character from the gothic horror-soap opera and film \"Dark Shadows\", in which she is the main antagonist. She is primarily portrayed as a powerful witch driven by her vacillating love and hatred for Barnabas Collins.\n\nIn the original TV series, the character was portrayed by Lara Parker, and appeared within several storylines of the series which aired from June 1966 through April 1971. Angelique was originally introduced to explain how Barnabas Collins became a vampire, but she proved popular enough in her own right to make many return appearances. She is portrayed by English actress Lysette Anthony in the 1991 revival TV series, and French actress Eva Green in the 2012 feature film directed by Tim Burton.\n\nAngélique was born as Miranda DuVal during the 17th century in the West Indies of Martinique. During her early teen years, Angélique travelled to America, where she became a faithful and loyal follower of a warlock named Judah Zachary. Judah took Angélique under his wing, and taught her the sacred arts of magic and witchcraft. One year later, both Angélique and Judah were captured and exposed as witches by the Catholic Church. Fearing her fate of death, Angélique betrayed Judah by testifying against him in exchange for her freedom.\n\nMiranda was later reincarnated as Angélique Bouchard. She was raised by Theodore Bouchard, who she believed to be her father, before coming to work for the duPres family. She is Countess Natalie duPres' servant, she follows her to Collinsport, Maine. However, after having a brief affair with Barnabas Collins, Angélique was heartbroken after Barnabas declared his love to another woman - Josette du Prés. After countless failed attempts to rekindling her romance with Barnabas, Angélique hexed a powerful spell to manipulate Josette’s love for Jeremiah Collins, Barnabas’ uncle. After Josette eloped with Jeremiah, Angelique coerced Barnabas into marrying her. However, after the discovery of her practices in witchcraft, Barnabas supposedly murdered Angélique. Before her \"death\", Angélique cursed Barnabas as a species of the undead and fell into a coma where she was presumed to die. Later, after her surprising survival, Angélique was devastated about what she did to Barnabas, and tried to reverse her spell. She is the first victim of her own curse, being in love with Barnabas. He strangles her in the secret room of the mausoleum. Her soul is claimed by The Dark Lord in exchange for letting Barnabas continue existing as a vampire through her curse rather than perish.\n\nDuring the early spring of 1968, Angélique changed her name to Cassandra Blair, and became the second wife of Roger Collins. Roger introduced his new bride to his family. She received a lukewarm welcome and Barnabas (who immediately recognized his former estranged wife) never doubted her true identity. Later, throughout the first year of their marriage, the happily married couple grow further and further apart. As Roger begins to realize his mistake in marrying \"Cassandra\", Angélique has affairs with multiple men - most notably Tony Peterson - of whom Elizabeth Collins Stoddard finds in the middle of one such affair and threaten to tell Roger. However, before having the chance to expose \"Cassandra\", Angélique hexes Elizabeth with a spell that surrenders her into a deathlike state. Believing her to be dead, the Collins family unknowingly buries Elizabeth alive.\n\nShe is destroyed by the Ghost of Reverend Trask, but is brought back from the dead and cursed as a vampire by Nicolas Blair. She attacks Joe Haskell on orders from Nicolas, and turns him into her slave. Then when Nicolas tells her she can have Barnabas, she no longer wants Joe and quits summoning him. She then turns on Barnabas and she bites him several times and turns him into her slave.\n\nAngelique traveled back to 1897 in order to further torment a time-traveling Barnabas. Initially a villain once more, she falls in love with Quentin Collins, and eventually becomes a firm ally in the enduring war against Andreas Petofi.\n\nAngelique's next storyline comes when she is discovered retired from witchcraft in 1970. After her marriage to Skyler Rumson, Angelique desired to live a normal life by renouncing her powers. After her encounter with Julia Hoffman, she claimed not be interested in the Collins family any longer. However, after the rise of the Leviathans, Barnabas sought her assistance and begged her for help. Though hesitant to practice magic again, Angelique reluctantly agreed. After the discovery of her husband’s allegiance to the Leviathans, Angelique abandoned Sky and took refuge in Collinsport at The Old House.\n\nA post-1795 Angelique is encountered in 1840 by Barnabas during his final TV storyline, where she has no knowledge of future events. Initially once more an antagonist, she eventually aids Barnabas against the threat of Judah Zachary and Lamar Trask, losing her powers in the process. Mortally wounded, she dies in Barnabas' arms, moments before he declares his love for her.\n\n\nIn 1998, Lara Parker made her writing debut with the novel \"Angelique's Descent\", which focused on Angelique’s early years in Martinique and her love affair with Barnabas Collins.\n\nIn 2006, she released a sequel, \"The Salem Branch\". She also wrote the introduction to the novel \"Dark Shadows: Dreams of the Dark\" (1999), written by Stephen Mark Rainey and Elizabeth Massie.\n\nLara released \"Wolf Moon Rising\" in 2013 and noted there would be a fourth book in the series that focuses on Victoria Winters coming back to Collinwood after her return to 1795.\n\nIn the 2012 \"Dark Shadows\" film, Angelique (portrayed by French actress Eva Green) is an amazingly powerful and resilient witch, and a successful local businesswoman and community symbol. Her interest in Barnabas, after he is unwittingly released from her imprisonment, is again inflamed and she immediately seeks him out.\n\nIn a single brief childhood scene establishing Angelique's early interest in Barnabas, the young Angelique (played by Raffey Cassidy) is shown with her mother, a servant, departing from Liverpool for \"the New World\" along with the Collins family. The childhood scene establishes, more intensively than the television series did, Angelique's class-based resentment of the Collins clan's privileges, for she is cautioned by her mother that she must accept her place, servitude, in the social structure of the time and not even gaze freely upon her \"betters\", including Barnabas. It is later learned that Angelique had caused the fatal accident that claimed Barnabas' parents' lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "55138997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55138997", "title": "Apobates Base", "text": "Apobates Base\n\nThe Apobates Base is a marble statue base featuring the scene of an Apobates competition or chariot race. The base, which is part of the collection at the Acropolis Museum in Athens, stands at in height and in width. A charioteer, armed athlete or warrior, and four horse-drawn chariot are depicted in profile relief. Named for the Greek “Apobatai” – literally the “Dismounters” – the base’s relief depicts the racing event or Apobates race, which was a ceremonial part of the Panathenaic Games. In this event athletes would race against other athletes by dismounting and remounting moving chariots for prizes and renown.\n\nThe base dates to the Hellenistic period, ca. 300 B.C.E. While the base dates to the Hellenistic era, periodization is not an exact science. In this case, although made during the Hellenistic era, the artistry of the base actually falls into the categorization of Late Classical sculpture style. It is not entirely uncommon for styles to bleed over into other periods simply because specific artistic and stylistic changes are not the sole consideration for the division of periods like Classical and Hellenistic eras. Artistic styles, including that of the Apobates Base, can fall categorically into a style entirely different from the era to which they date.\n\nThis Base’s Classical style is characterized by a great amount of dynamic movement, realistic and defined musculature, and greater sense of depth and dimension in sculptural figures. While a great deal of the base is damaged, the Classical style is most obvious in the dynamic pose of the athlete and figural depth of the horses.\n\nThis event became entrenched as part of the ritual of the Panathenaic Games. Among the various athletic competitions of the Panathenaic Festival, chariot racing came to prominence - though no research to date can provide a full picture of the event. However, the event is construed to be representative of past military spectacles and was integrated into a sporting event in which athletes would dismount and remount moving chariots during a race.\n\nContestants who won the Apobates race would commemorate their victory in the Panathenaia by constructing monuments and dedicatory statues. The Apobates base is one such dedication. The victors would place them in sanctuaries and Panhellenic sites. These victory monuments became artistic expressions in antiquity.\n\nDepictions of charioteers and chariot racing became popular thematic elements to include in votive and victory dedications, as well as grave markers and sculptural decoration. The chariot became a symbol of wealth and, as a result, contributed to conspicuous consumption in society. The chariot became a prominent feature of Greek art and an important part of festivals like the Panathenaia. It was because of the connotations which chariots and charioteers held in Greek society that it became such a popular subject for Greek art.\n\nFound on the west side of the Athenian Acropolis, the base supported an athletic or military victory dedication, similar to a votive dedication. Unfortunately only the base survives.\n\nThe chariot was introduced to the Greeks through trade and interaction with the Near East ca. 1400 B.C.E. However, the chariot became adopted and integrated into Greek iconography. The same motif is found in some of the earliest sculpture from mainland Greece, namely the sandstone Grave Stele at Mycenae found in Grave Circle A which dates to the 16th Century B.C.E. In ancient Greek culture, the chariot and charioteer became a symbol of power and wealth because horses were very expensive and chariots themselves extremely impracticable for Greek terrain.\n"}
{"id": "1861551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861551", "title": "Army School of Bagpipe Music and Highland Drumming", "text": "Army School of Bagpipe Music and Highland Drumming\n\nThe Army School of Bagpipe Music and Highland Drumming is a British Army training establishment that provides instructions of Scottish bagpipe music to military pipers, drummers and pipe bands.\n\nFounded in 1910 as the Army School of Piping (later renamed the Army School of Bagpipe Music), the School is located at Inchdrewer House near Redford Barracks in Edinburgh, Scotland and is administered by the Infantry Training Centre, it is also affiliated with the Corps of Army Music. Generally regarded as the smallest unit in the British Army, the School is now commanded by a Director who is a qualified army Pipe Major and who usually holds the rank of Captain or Major (usually being commissioned from Warrant Officer rank on appointment). The Director is assisted by a Chief Instructor, who is the Senior Pipe Major of the British Army.\n\nThe School provides courses at different levels to pipers and drummers of the British Armed Forces throughout the year, and qualified instructors are drawn from the pipes and drums of various units in the British Army. The School accepts students from Commonwealth armed forces, but not civilians. It has in the past provided instruction to various police band members, but this has not taken place for a number of years.\n\nThe School forms part of the Piping and Drumming Qualifications Board, which is a collaboration among the Piobaireachd Society, the Royal Scottish Pipe Band Association, the College of Piping, and the Piping Centre. Together, the Institute sets a standardised piping certificate programme for students from around the world.\n\n\n\nMusic schools in Scotland\n\n"}
{"id": "36472430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36472430", "title": "Association of Arts Administration Educators", "text": "Association of Arts Administration Educators\n\nThe Association of Arts Administration Educators (AAAE) is a US based not-for-profit organization which was founded in 1975 in order to offer an arena for the advocacy and support for the training and improvement in standards of education for those working in arts administration.\n"}
{"id": "9568654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9568654", "title": "Beatriz Guido", "text": "Beatriz Guido\n\nBeatriz Guido (13 December 1924 – 4 March 1988) was an Argentine novelist and screenwriter.\n\nGuido was born in Rosario, Santa Fe Province, the daughter of architect Ángel Guido (renowned as the creator of the National Flag Memorial) and of Uruguayan actress Berta Eirin. She studied at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters of the University of Buenos Aires.\n\nShe wrote her first novel, \"La casa del ángel\", in 1954. She also wrote a short story named \"Usurpacion\". Because of her outspoken anti-Peronism, she was branded a \"right-wing writer\" and a \"false aristocrat\" by the government of Juan Perón. In 1959 she married film director and screenwriter Leopoldo Torre Nilsson. She started working with her husband, who took several of her works to the screen.\n\nIn 1984 she won the Konex Merit Diploma on Letters. That year she was appointed cultural attaché of the Argentine Embassy in Spain. She died of a heart attack in Madrid four years later, at the age of 63.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16514983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16514983", "title": "Birmingham Artists Committee", "text": "Birmingham Artists Committee\n\nThe Birmingham Artists Committee was an English artist collective that organised exhibitions of painting and sculpture in Birmingham between 1947 and 1952.\n\nThe committee was organised by the art critic Robert Melville and artists including Oscar Mellor and Trevor Denning to break the stranglehold of the conservative Royal Birmingham Society of Artists on the exhibition of work by living artists in the city.\n\nIts exhibitions were an important post-war outlet for the Birmingham Surrealists, showing the work of Conroy Maddox, John Melville, Emmy Bridgwater and the young Desmond Morris. Other notable artists represented included CoBrA member William Gear and the sculptor Gordon Herickx.\n\nAlthough there was no organisational link, The Birmingham Artists Committee was acknowledged as a catalyst by the artists who founded the Ikon Gallery in 1964.\n"}
{"id": "23639832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23639832", "title": "Bishop Lloyd's House", "text": "Bishop Lloyd's House\n\nBishop Lloyd's House (or Bishop Lloyd's Palace) is at 41 Watergate Street, and 51/53 Watergate Row, Chester, Cheshire, England. It is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade I listed building. The architectural historian Nikolaus Pevsner considered it to be \"perhaps the best\" house in Chester.\n\nThe house is built on two stone medieval undercrofts with timber framing above. Its first floor incorporates a section of the Chester Rows. The house is now used as shops and meeting rooms and it includes the headquarters of Chester Civic Trust.\n\nThe house originated as two town houses which were built on medieval undercrofts. It was rebuilt during the 17th century when the two buildings were converted into one. The rebuilt house broke with the medieval fashion of having the main residential accommodation in a great hall at the row level; instead the principal living accommodation was in two \"elegant chambers\" in the floor above the row. The house has been associated with George Lloyd, who was Bishop of Chester from 1605 to 1615. In the early 18th century the east (left) house bore a panel inscribed \"EDGAR'S ACADEMY\". By the 19th century it had become run down, the carvings on its frontage had been covered with plaster, the house had been split into tenements, and it was becoming derelict. In the 1890s the house was heavily restored by Thomas Lockwood. He re-fronted the east house to more closely match the west house and added a flight of steps from the street to the level of the row on the east side. He also re-positioned the posts holding the structure above the row and replaced the 18th-century sash windows with mullioned windows. A further restoration was carried out between 1973 and 1977.\n\nThe building has the appearance of two houses, each under a gable, with three storeys, and an attic in each gable. At the street level the east (left) house has a stone staircase with a wrought iron railing. At the row level is an oak handrail on balusters, behind which is a shop front. The brackets supporting the storey above are carved with bearded giants, beasts and an owl; there are also lighter brackets shaped as figures. On the outside, between the beam over the row and the windows above are ten square panels. The windows are divided into three bays by oak pilasters carved in Jacobean style, and further divided in each bay by two mullions and two transoms making a total of 27. Above the windows is a plaster band and in the attic is a three-light window surrounded by more square panels. The bargeboards have carved cornices with an ornate post between them.\n\nThe ground floor of the west house includes a shop with a central entrance. On each side are two piers and an 18-light bow window. At the row level is a wooden balustrade, and brackets with carvings similar to the east house. Above this level are eight recessed carved panels. The two centre panels contain the coat of arms of James I with an inscription, and the arms of Sodor and Man (George Lloyd was Bishop of Sodor and Man before he became Bishop of Chester) with the date 1615. To the left of these are three panels containing carvings of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, and Abraham and Isaac. To the right are another three panels, two of which contain carvings of biblical scenes. In the storey above are four oak pilasters dividing the windows into three bays, with two mullions and a transom further separating the windows - of which there is a total of 18. Above the windows is a carved beam and over this are ten arched panels which contain carvings of heraldic beasts. In the attic is a three-light window to each side of which are three panels containing carvings, and above the window are three plain panels. Again the bargeboards are carved with a post between them.\n\nThe two undercrofts have walls of red sandstone rubble, with brick barrel vaults which were probably added in the 18th century. Leading from the row level to the third storey is a Chinese Chippendale staircase. In the third storey are two rooms. The larger room has an ornate 17th-century plaster ceiling and a massive fireplace; it is thought that these were moved from the Bishop's Palace in Abbey Square after this was damaged in the Civil War. The smaller room also has a plaster ceiling, less ornate than in the other room. This includes motifs including Tudor roses, horses, and starfish. Around the room is a frieze containing sea-monsters. In this room is a smaller fireplace in the overmantel of which is a carving of Cupid riding on a lion.\n\nThere are shops on the ground floor level and at the level of the row. The house above is open free of charge to visitors at advertised times. It has two large meeting rooms which are available to hire. The building contains the headquarters of the Chester Civic Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "31865107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31865107", "title": "Bjarke Ingels Group", "text": "Bjarke Ingels Group\n\nBjarke Ingels Group, often referred to as BIG, is a Copenhagen and New York based group of architects, designers, and builders operating within the fields of architecture, urbanism, research and development. The office is currently involved in a large number of projects throughout Europe, North America, Asia and the Middle East. As of 2016, the office has over 400 employees from 25 countries.\n\nBjarke Ingels and Julien De Smedt established PLOT in Copenhagen in January 2001, as a focus for their architectural practice. Ingels established BIG in late 2005 after he and De Smedt closed down PLOT. This drew acclaim for its first completed commission, the Mountain, a residential project in Copenhagen which had been started by PLOT. Over the next couple of years, BIG's projects included a waste-to-energy plant which doubles as a ski-slope in Copenhagen, Denmark; the West 57th Street mixed-use tower in midtown Manhattan for Durst Fetner Residential; the National Art Gallery of Greenland in Nuuk; the headquarters for the Shenzhen Energy Company in Shenzhen; and the Kimball Art Center in Utah.\n\nIn December 2009, the company's partnership was expanded to include Thomas Christoffersen, Jakob Lange, Finn Nørkjaer, Andreas Klok Pedersen, David Zahle, CEO Sheela Maini Søgaard, and Kai-Uwe Bergmann.\n\nIn 2010, they opened a branch office in New York City, where they were commissioned to design the W57 courtscraper for Durst Fetner Residential.\n\nIn 2015, BIG added four new partners: Beat Schenk and Daniel Sundlin in New York and Brian Yang and Jakob Sand in Copenhagen.\n\nIn May 2016, BIG partnered with Hyperloop One, Deutsche Bahn, and SYSTRA to develop a test of the high-speed, low friction Hyperloop concept.\n\nLaunched in 2014, the division is part R&D lab, part incubator for BIG design concepts that can be spun off into independent products or companies.\n\nThe lab was founded to build the steam-ring generator for the Amager Bakke - the Copenhagen power plant with a ski slope on its roof - which will \"puff\" every time it emits a tonne of carbon dioxide. It is now working on numerous BIG collaborations and spin-off projects, including a smart internet-connected lock named Friday, \"a company that creates water from super-efficient dehumidification\", and Urban Rigger - floating student housing for coastal cities built from repurposed shipping containers. The first are scheduled to be built in Gothenburg, Sweden in 2016.\n\nOther projects include Fingerprint Façade, Window Garden, and a gigantic Tesla coil for the Battersea Power Station in London.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953067", "title": "Cambridge Ritualists", "text": "Cambridge Ritualists\n\nThe Cambridge Ritualists were a recognised group of classical scholars, mostly in Cambridge, England, including Jane Ellen Harrison, F.M. Cornford, Gilbert Murray (actually from the University of Oxford), A. B. Cook, and others. They earned this title because of their shared interest in ritual, specifically their attempts to explain myth and early forms of classical drama as originating in ritual, mainly the ritual seasonal killings of \"eniautos daimon\", or the Year-King. They are also sometimes referred to as the myth and ritual school, or as the Classical Anthropologists.\n\nInspired by \"The Golden Bough\", Gilbert Murray in 1913 proclaimed the killing of the year spirit as the \"orthodox view of the origins of tragedy. The year Daimon waxes proud and is slain by his enemy, who becomes thereby a murderer, and must in turn perish\". A decade later, however, the excessively rigid application of Frazer's thesis to Greek tragedy had already begun to be challenged; and by the Sixties Robert Fagles could state that \"The ritual origins of tragedy are totally in doubt, often hotly debated\".\n\nThrough their work in classical philology, they exerted profound influence not only on the Classics, but on literary critics, such as Stanley Edgar Hyman or Northrop Frye. Particularly affected by Émile Durkheim was F. M. Cornford, who used the French sociologist's notion of collective representations to analyze social forms of religious, artistic, philosophical, and scientific expression in classical Greece. Other significant influences on the group were Charles Darwin, Freud, James Frazer, and William Robertson Smith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1701039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1701039", "title": "Carrère and Hastings", "text": "Carrère and Hastings\n\nCarrère and Hastings, the firm of John Merven Carrère (November 9, 1858 – March 1, 1911) and Thomas Hastings (March 11, 1860 – October 22, 1929), was one of the outstanding Beaux-Arts architecture firms in the United States. It was located in New York City. The partnership operated from 1885 until 1911, when Carrère was killed in an automobile accident. Thomas Hastings continued on his own, using the same firm name, until his death in 1929.\n\nBoth men studied at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in France and worked at the firm of McKim, Mead, and White before they established their firm in the same building. The partnership's first success was the Ponce de León Hotel in St. Augustine, Florida, which they designed for Henry Flagler. They went on to establish a successful practice during the 1880s and early 1890s, and rose to national prominence by winning the competition for the New York Public Library in 1897. The firm designed commercial buildings, elaborate residences, and prominent public buildings in New York, Washington and as far afield as Toronto, London, Paris, Rome, and Havana.\n\nJohn Merven Carrère was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the son of John Merven Carrère, a Baltimore native and Anna Louisa Maxwell, a Scots/Brazilian native of Rio who was the daughter of Joseph Maxwell, a prosperous coffee trader. The architect's father entered Maxwell's coffee business and later developed other business interests of his own in Brazil. As a boy Carrère was sent to Switzerland for his education until 1880, when he entered the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts, Paris, where he was in the atelier of Leon Ginian until 1882. He returned to New York where his family had resettled after leaving Brazil and worked as draughtsmen for the architectural firm of McKim, Mead and White. He and his Paris acquaintance, Thomas Hastings, worked there together before striking out on their own in 1885. During this period Carrère independently designed several circular panorama buildings in New York and Chicago. After he married Marion Dell in 1886 they lived in Staten Island and had three daughters, one of whom died as an infant. In 1901 they moved to East 65th Street in Manhattan, and built a country house in Harrison, New York.\n\nCarrère was noted for his generous enthusiasm and his unflinching honesty. His organizational skill, artistic judgment, and energy were essential to the establishment and success of the Carrère and Hastings firm. He was most active in the firm's large civic and commercial projects, including the House and Senate office buildings on Capitol Hill, the Manhattan Bridge and its approaches, and the New York Public Library. He was interested in civic affairs in New York, where, with the help of Elihu Root, he was instrumental in establishing the Art Commission of New York City. Later his public service extended to the national arena. In the 1890s he worked with other leaders of the American Institute of Architects to persuade the US Treasury Department to implement the Tarsney Act, which had been passed by Congress in 1893 to allow the federal government to award architectural commissions for its buildings through open design competitions. During the extended Tarsney controversy Jeremiah O'Rourke, the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department resigned, and Carrère was offered his job, an offer which he very publicly considered, but ultimately declined, writing, \"the system, not the man, should be changed.\" \n\nCarrère was engaged in the development of city planning in the United States. He wrote pamphlets and lectured at universities and to civic groups on the subject. He collaborated with Daniel H. Burnham and Arnold Brunner on the Group Plan for Cleveland, Ohio (1903), and again with Brunner on a plan for Grand Rapids, Michigan (1909). Then, in 1910, he worked with Brunner and Frederick Law Olmsted, Jr. on a plan for a Baltimore civic center (1910). In 1908, Carrère was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member, and became a full member in 1910. Later, Carrère and Hastings produced a plan for the City of Hartford, Connecticut, which was completed in 1911, just prior to his tragic, early death, which occurred when a streetcar collided with the taxi in which he was riding. He suffered a brain concussion and never regained consciousness.\n\nThomas S. Hastings was born in New York City on March 11, 1860. His father, also Thomas S. Hastings (1827–1911), was a noted Presbyterian minister, homiletics professor, and dean of the Union Theological Seminary. His grandfather, Thomas Samuel Hastings (1784–1872), was one of America's leading church musicians of the 19th century: he composed hymns, including 'Rock of Ages,' and published the first musical treatise by a native-born composer in 1822. Hastings was educated in private schools in New York, and began his architectural apprenticeship at Herter Brothers, the premier New York furnishers and decorators. He attended the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris from 1880–1883 as a student in the atelier of Louis-Jules André. There he met his future partner, and both maintained ties to Europe throughout their lives (Hastings earning the French Legion of Honor as well as the Gold Medal of the RIBA). \n\nUpon returning to New York, Hastings entered the office of McKim, Mead & White, the leading American firm of the American Renaissance. Renewing his friendship with Carrère, who was also in the office, he remained there for two years. A referral through his father to Henry Morrison Flagler resulted in the commission first for a library extension to Flagler's Mamaroneck estate and then for the Ponce de Leon and later Alcazar hotels in St. Augustine, Florida. Further ties to wealthy patrons, who were also members of his father's mid-town congregation, propelled the rapid success of the young architects. His brother Frank's ties to E. C. Benedict, a leading financier, introduced him not only to patrons but also to his future wife. In 1900, at the age of 40, he married Benedict's daughter Helen at the Presbyterian church in Greenwich, Connecticut. The ceremony was attended by many of New York's wealthy citizens. Charles F. McKim was the best man, Stanford White designed the church decorations, and White's son was a page.\n\nHastings is credited with many of the firm's designs and, in part because he survived Carrère by eighteen years, he is the often cited as the leader of the firm. He lectured widely and wrote a number of influential articles, later collected by David Gray in his brief biography of the architect. He and his wife enjoyed riding, and they built a country house in Old Westbury, Long Island. Following Carrère's death in 1911, Hastings maintained the firm's name and continued his role as principal in the firm, but shared responsibility in large commissions with trusted associates such as Richmond Shreve, Theodore Blake and others. Owen Brainard, an engineer, was a junior partner in the firm during Carrère's lifetime and continued to consult with the firm thereafter. Eventually this collaborative arrangement would result in the formation of Shreve, Lamb and Blake (later Shreve, Lamb and Harmon), the noted builders of skyscrapers.\n\nHastings died of complications of an appendectomy on October 23, 1929. Some of his papers were given to the American Academy of Arts & Letters, where he was a member and treasurer for many years. He was survived by his wife but left no heirs.\n\nThe firm's first major commission came from a parishioner of Rev. Hastings, Henry Morrison Flagler, the Florida developer and railway tycoon, for whom the partners built the Ponce de León Hotel (1885–1888) in St. Augustine, Florida (now part of Flagler College). This was followed by the Alcazar Hotel (1887–88 now the Lightner Museum), as well as the Flagler Memorial Presbyterian Church (1887), both in St. Augustine, and a house for Henry Flagler nearby. In 1901 they designed a second house for Flagler, Whitehall, in the resort he developed, Palm Beach, Florida. Whitehall was completed in 1902. Whitehall is a Mediterranean-flavored house faced with white stucco, with palatial interiors in various styles ranged round a grand entrance hall with double staircase.\n\nCarrère and Hastings were among the best-connected New York architects, and benefited from associations with the richest and most powerful of the city's citizens. Clients included Elihu Root, the noted attorney and cabinet secretary under Theodore Roosevelt, Edward H. Harriman, the railroad tycoon, Thomas Fortune Ryan, one of Wall Street's notorious capitalists, and several members of the Blair family of New Jersey. The early work of the firm was eclectic but always succinctly organized, an inheritance of their École des Beaux-Arts training. Following the World Columbian Exposition of 1893, and its influential classical themes, the firm's style began to exhibit modern French and Renaissance revival attributes. The attention to sculpture and surface embellishment in their work was always closely tied to the axial planning that ensured the functionality of the interior spaces and circulation. They were among the earliest users of new technologies, from structural steel to electrification, even employing passive air conditioning systems. But their major interest was in the adaptation of the classical language of architecture developed in Europe to the American scene, creating a modern American architecture out of centuries-old traditions.\n\nOne of the largest contributions of the firm was in the realm of urban design, a result of Carrère's abiding interest in the Beaux-Arts \"City Beautiful\" movement. An early advocate of comprehensive planning, he designed downtown plans for Baltimore, Hartford, Cleveland and Atlantic City. In collaboration with Hastings, he was largely responsible for carrying out the firm's major public commissions: the New York Public Library (1897–1912), the House and Senate Office Buildings in Washington (1908–09), the planning of the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo (1901), the McKinnley Memorial in Buffalo, Richmond Borough Hall on Staten Island (1904–06), and the Paterson (New Jersey) City Hall (1896). \n\nhe architects were also noted for their contributions to the country house and garden movement of the early 1900s, where they introduced both stylistic and compositional ideas that shaped domestic architecture for decades to come. Their garden designs were extensively published, and they created a comprehensive staff to handle interior design in large houses, one of the first offices to offer these services. Their largest and most notable country houses included Blairsden (1898) in Peapack, New Jersey, Bellefontaine (1897, altered) in Lenox, Massachusetts, Arden (1905–09) in Harriman, New York, and Nemours (1910) in Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nThe office's significant skyscrapers were not designed until the late 1910s and early 1920s when, in association with other architects, Hastings' office worked on the Cunard Building (1917–21) and the Standard Oil Building (1920–28), which stand across the street from each other on Broadway at Bowling Green. Hastings was a critic of tall buildings in cities, warning that buildings over six stories (the height of Parisian hôtels particuliers) produced alienation by removing references to human scale, and destroyed the urban streetscape.\n\nChanging styles and the rise of International Modernism led architectural historians to neglect the work of Carrère and Hastings for half a century after the firm closed. Today the firm is recognized as one of the most important in the U.S. during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Their contributions to civic design and classicism are of continued importance today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18713808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18713808", "title": "Country Justice", "text": "Country Justice\n\nCountry Justice (also known as Family Rescue) is a 1997 American made for TV crime drama film.\n\nEmma (Rachael Leigh Cook) is a 15-year-old girl who was raised in a West Virginia mining town by her miner grandfather, Clayton Hayes (George C. Scott). She wants to know about her mother Angie Baker (Ally Sheedy), who abandoned her when she was a baby. She decides to go visit her mother in Tennessee despite her grandfather's insistence against it, leaving him a note. \n\nWhen she arrives at the trailer where her mother lives, she is greeted by her mother's partner Ray Wilcox (Don Diamont) who is attracted to her the minute he meets her. He keeps complimenting her using superficial charm until one night she goes out to dinner with him. He gives her too much champagne before taking her to an abandoned trailer on the same lot that her mother Angie and Ray live on and rapes her.\n\nAfter the rape, Emma returns home to her grandfather, who threatens to murder Ray, only barely being talked out of it by Emma. Emma soon finds out that she is pregnant and after some contemplation, she decides to keep the baby. However, Ray begins stalking her, which in turn causes her to go into labor and she gives birth to a son named Matthew Baker. Ray sues for sole custody of their son, easily winning the case due to his age and financial income, but Clayton kidnaps the baby.\n\nAfter becoming a fugitive, the police arrive at Emma's house along with Ray to get the baby. Emma tells them she doesn't have the baby and after persistent questioning and threats from Ray, they leave. Clayton is assisted by various friends while on the run, including a minister.\n\nClayton is forced to come out of hiding and seek a hospital when the baby's health starts to decline causing him to stop breathing. He is eventually found and Emma wins the custody fight on appeal and Clayton is granted custody of the baby. Ray comes back and tries to talk to Angie, but Clayton sends him away. At the end of the movie Angie, Clayton, and Emma wind up living together and taking care of Matthew and Emma still going to school, able to maintain a scarred but peaceful life as a teenager and mother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57019278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57019278", "title": "Elizabeth Drake", "text": "Elizabeth Drake\n\nElizabeth Drake is an Australian composer. Her film soundtrack credits include \"Road to Nhill\" and \"Japanese Story\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449924", "title": "Fairy ring", "text": "Fairy ring\n\nA fairy ring, also known as fairy circle, elf circle, elf ring or pixie ring, is a naturally occurring ring or arc of mushrooms. The rings may grow to over in diameter, and they become stable over time as the fungus grows and seeks food underground. They are found mainly in forested areas, but also appear in grasslands or rangelands. Fairy rings are detectable by sporocarps (fungal spore pods) in rings or arcs, as well as by a necrotic zone (dead grass), or a ring of dark green grass. Fungus mycelium is present in the ring or arc underneath.\n\nFairy rings are the subject of much folklore and myth worldwide—particularly in Western Europe. While they are often seen as hazardous or dangerous places, they can sometimes be linked with good fortune.\n\nThe mycelium of a fungus growing in the ground absorbs nutrients by secretion of enzymes from the tips of the hyphae (threads making up the mycelium). This breaks down larger molecules in the soil into smaller molecules that are then absorbed through the walls of the hyphae near their growing tips. The mycelium will move outward from the center, and when the nutrients in the center are exhausted, the center dies, thereby forming a living ring, from which the fairy ring arises.\n\nThere are two theories regarding the process involved in creating fairy rings. One states that the fairy ring is begun by a spore from the sporocarpus. The underground presence of the fungus can also cause withering or varying colour or growth of the grass above. The second theory, which is presented in the investigations of Japanese scientists on the \"Tricholoma matsutake\" species, shows that fairy rings could be established by connecting neighbouring oval genets of these mushrooms. If they make an arc or a ring, they continuously grow about the centre of this object.\n\nOne of the manifestations of fairy ring growth is a necrotic zone—an area in which grass or other plant life has withered or died. These zones are caused by the mycelia which, during a very dry year, coat the roots of grasses and other herbs in meadows. After some time they are removed by biotic factors from the ground, at which stage a zone on the surface soil becomes visible. Patterns other than the basic ring or arc are also possible: circles, doubled arcs, sickle-shaped arcs, and other complicated formations are also formed by this process. Fungi can deplete the soil of readily available nutrients such as nitrogen, causing plants growing within the circle to be stressed which leads to plant discoloration. Some fungi also produce chemicals which act like hormones called gibberellins, which affect plant growth, causing rapid luxuriant growth.\n\nLong-term observations of fairy rings on Shillingstone Hill in Dorset, England, further suggested that the cycle depended on the continuous presence of rabbits. Chalky soils on higher elevations in the counties of Wiltshire and Dorset in southern England used to support many meadow-type fairy rings. Rabbits crop grass very short in open areas and produce nitrogen-rich droppings. Mushrooms need more soil nitrogen than grass does. A ring can start from only a few spores from which the mycelium develops; the fruiting bodies of the mushrooms only appearing later, when sufficient mycelial mass has been generated to support them. Subsequent generations of fungi grow only outwards, because the parent generations have depleted their local nitrogen levels. Meanwhile, rabbits keep cropping the grass, but do not eat the fungi, allowing them to grow through their competition to tower, relatively, above the grass. By the time a circle of mushrooms reaches about in diameter, rabbit droppings have replenished the nitrogen levels near the centre of the circle, and a secondary ring may start to grow inside the first. \n\nSoil analysis of soil containing mycelium from a wood blewit (\"Clitocybe nuda\") fairy ring under Norway spruce (\"Picea abies\") and Scots pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\") in southeast Sweden yielded fourteen halogenated low molecular weight organic compounds, three of which were brominated and the others chlorinated. It is unclear whether these were metabolites or pollutants. Brominated compounds are unknown as metabolites from terrestrial fungi.\n\nThere are two generally recognised types of fairy ring fungus. Those found in the woods are called \"tethered\", because they are formed by mycorrhizal fungi living in symbiosis with trees. Meadow fairy rings are called \"free\", because they are not connected with other organisms. These mushrooms are saprotrophic.\nThe effects on the grass depend on the type of fungus that is growing; when \"Calvatia cyathiformis\" is growing in the area grass will grow more abundantly; however, \"Leucopaxillus giganteus\" will cause the grass to wither.\n\nThere are about 60 mushroom species which can grow in the fairy ring pattern. The best known is the edible Scotch bonnet (\"Marasmius oreades\"), commonly known as the fairy ring champignon.\n\nOne of the largest rings ever found is near Belfort in France. Formed by \"Infundibulicybe geotropa\", it is thought to be about in diameter and over 700 years old. On the South Downs in southern England, \"Calocybe gambosa\" has formed huge fairy rings that also appear to be several hundred years old.\n\nA great deal of folklore surrounds fairy rings. Their names in European languages often allude to supernatural origins; they are known as \"ronds de sorcières\" (\"witches' circles\") in French, and \"Hexenringe\" (\"witches' rings\") in German. In German tradition, fairy rings were thought to mark the site of witches' dancing on Walpurgis Night, and Dutch superstition claimed that the circles show where the Devil set his milk churn. In Tyrol, folklore attributed fairy rings to the fiery tails of flying dragons; once a dragon had created such a circle, nothing but toadstools could grow there for seven years. European superstitions routinely warned against entering a fairy ring. French tradition reported that fairy rings were guarded by giant bug-eyed toads that cursed those who violated the circles. In other parts of Europe, entering a fairy ring would result in the loss of an eye. Fairy rings are associated with diminutive spirits in the Philippines.\n\nWestern European traditions, including English, Scandinavian and Celtic, claimed that fairy rings are the result of elves or fairies dancing. Such ideas dated to at least the mediæval period; The Middle English term \"elferingewort\" (\"elf-ring\"), meaning \"a ring of daisies caused by elves' dancing\" dates to the 12th century. In his \"History of the Goths\" (1628), Olaus Magnus makes this connection, saying that fairy rings are burned into the ground by the dancing of elves. British folklorist Thomas Keightley noted that in Scandinavia in the early 20th century, beliefs persisted that fairy rings (\"elfdans\") arose from the dancing of elves. Keightley warned that while entering an \"elfdans\" might allow the interloper to see the elves—although this was not guaranteed—it would also put the intruder in thrall to their illusions.\n\nThe folklores of Britain and Ireland contain a wealth of fairy lore, including the idea from which fairy rings take their name: the phenomena result from the dancing of fairies. In 19th-century Wales, where the rings are known as \"cylch y Tylwyth Teg\", fairies were almost invariably described as dancing in a group when encountered, and in Scotland and Wales in the late 20th century, stories about fairy rings were still common; some Welshmen even claimed to have joined a fairy dance. Victorian folklorists regarded fairies and witches as related, based in part on the idea that both were believed to dance in circles. These revels are particularly associated with moonlit nights, the rings only becoming visible to mortals the following morning. Local variants add other details. An early 20th-century Irish tradition says that fairies enjoy dancing around the hawthorn tree so that fairy rings often centre on one. One resident of Balquhidder, Scotland, said that the fairies sit on the mushrooms and use them as dinnertables, and a Welsh woman claimed that fairies used the mushrooms as parasols and umbrellas. Olaus Magnus in \"Historia de Gentibus Septentrionalibus\" wrote that the brightness of the fairy ring comes not from the dancing of the fairies, who harm it with their feet, but from Puck, who refreshes the grass. A Devon legend says that a black hen and chickens sometimes appear at dusk in a large fairy ring on the edge of Dartmoor. A Welsh and Manx variant current in the 1960s removes dancing from the picture and claims that fairy rings spring up over an underground fairy village. These associations have become linked to specific sites. For example, \"The Pixies' Church\" was a rock formation in Dartmoor surrounded by a fairy ring, and a stone circle tops Cader Idris in northern Wales, believed to be a popular spot for fairy dances. Guernsey Fairy Ring is also a popular spot for fairie dancing and known for having evil fairies living there.\n\nMany folk beliefs generally paint fairy rings as dangerous places, best avoided. Sikes traces these stories of people trespassing into forbidden territory and being punished for it to the tale of Psyche and Eros. In it, Psyche is forbidden to view her lover, and when she does so, her palace disappears and she is left alone. Superstition calls fairy circles sacred and warns against violating them lest the interloper (such as a farmer with a plough) anger the fairies and be cursed. In an Irish legend recorded by Wilde, a farmer builds a barn on a fairy ring despite the protests of his neighbours. He is struck senseless one night, and a local \"fairy doctor\" breaks the curse. The farmer says that he dreamed that he must destroy the barn. Even collecting dew from the grass or flowers of a fairy ring can bring bad luck. Destroying a fairy ring is unlucky and fruitless; superstition says it will just grow back.\n\nA traditional Scottish rhyme sums up the danger of such places:\nNumerous legends focus on mortals entering a fairy ring—and the consequences. One superstition is that anyone who steps into an empty fairy ring will die at a young age. A 20th-century tradition from Somerset calls the fairy ring a \"galley-trap\" and says that a murderer or thief who walks in the ring will be hanged. Most often, someone who violates a fairy perimeter becomes invisible to mortals outside and may find it impossible to leave the circle. Often, the fairies force the mortal to dance to the point of exhaustion, death, or madness. In Welsh tales, fairies actively try to lure mortals into their circles to dance with them. A tale from the Cambrian Mountains of Wales, current in the 19th century, describes a mortal's encounter with a fairy ring:\n\nEntering the ring on May Eve or Halloween night was especially dangerous. One source near Afon fach Blaen y Cae, a tributary of the Dwyfach, tells of a shepherd accidentally disturbing a ring of rushes where fairies are preparing to dance; they capture him and hold him captive, and he even marries one of them. In variants from Scotland recorded by Edwin Sidney Hartland in 1891, the ring is replaced by a cavern or an old mill.\n\nFreedom from a fairy ring often requires outside intervention. A tactic from early 20th-century Wales is to cast wild marjoram and thyme into the circle and befuddle the fairies; another asks the rescuer to touch the victim with iron. Other stories require that the enchanted victim simply be plucked out by someone on the outside, although even this can be difficult: A farmer in a tale from the Llangollen region has to tie a rope around himself and enlist four men to pull him from the circle as he goes in to save his daughter. Other folk methods rely on Christian faith to break the enchantment: a stick from a rowan tree (thought to be the wood from which the cross of Jesus Christ was built) can break the curse, as can a simple phrase such as \"what, in Heaven's name\", as in a 19th-century tale from Carmarthenshire. A common element to these recoveries is that the rescuer must wait a year and a day from when the victim entered the ring.\n\nMortals who have danced with the fairies are rarely safe after being saved from their enthrallment. Often, they find that what seemed to be but a brief foray into fairyland was indeed much longer in the mortal realm, possibly weeks or years. The person rescued from the fairy ring may have no memory of their encounter with the sprites, as in a story from Anglesea recorded in 1891. In most tales, the saved interlopers face a grim fate. For example, in a legend from Carmarthenshire, recorded by Sikes, a man is rescued from a fairy ring only to crumble to dust. In a tale from Mathavarn, Llanwrin Parish, a fairy-ring survivor moulders away when he eats his first bite of food. Another vulnerability seems to be iron; in a tale from the Aberystwyth region, a touch from the metal causes a rescued woman to disappear.\n\nSome legends assert that the only safe way to investigate a fairy ring is to run around it nine times. This affords the ability to hear the fairies dancing and frolicking underground. According to a 20th-century tradition of Northumberland, this must be done under a full moon, and the runner must travel in the direction of the sun; to go widdershins allows the fairies to place the runner under their sway. To circle the ring a tenth time is foolhardy and dangerous. Keightley recorded a similar tradition from Northumberland in 1905: \"The children constantly run this number [nine times], but nothing will induce them to venture a tenth run.\" A story from early 20th century England says that a mortal can see the sprites without fear if a friend places a foot on that of the person stepping beyond the circle's perimeter. Another superstition says that wearing a hat backwards can confuse the fairies and prevent them from pulling the wearer into their ring.\n\nAlthough they have strong associations with doom, some legends paint fairy circles as places of fertility and fortune. Welsh folk belief is that mountain sheep that eat the grass of a fairy ring flourish, and that crops sown from such a place will prove more bountiful than those from normal land. A folk belief recorded in the \"Athenian Oracle\" claims that a house built on a fairy circle will bring prosperity to its inhabitants. Likewise, a legend from Pont y Wern says that in the 13th or 14th century, the inhabitants of the town of Corwrion watched fairies dancing in a ring around a glow worm every Sunday after church at a place called Pen y Bonc. They even joined the sprites in their revels. The legend survives in a rhyme: \"With the fairies nimbly dancing round / The glow-worm on the Rising Ground.\" A Welsh tale recorded by Rhys in 1901 tells of a man who supposedly lived on the side of the Berwyn, above Cwm Pennant, in the early 19th century. The man destroyed a nest of rooks in a tree surrounded by a fairy ring. In gratitude, the fairies gave him a half crown every day but stopped when he told his friends, \"for he had broken the rule of the fair folks by making their liberality known\". Nevertheless, fairy boons are not without their curses, and tales often tell of the sprites exacting their revenge.\n\nFairy rings have featured in the works of European authors, playwrights, and artists since the 13th century. In his Arthurian romance \"Meraugis de Portlesguez\", Raoul de Houdenc describes a scene clearly derived from Celtic fairy-ring lore: The title character visits the Château des Caroles and sees a circle of women and a knight dancing around a pine in the castle courtyard. Meraugis is unable to fight the intense desire to join in, thus freeing the previous knight from the spell. Meraugis is helpless to leave the dance until, ten weeks later, another knight joins it and frees him. Fairy circles feature in works by several Elizabethan poets and playwrights. William Shakespeare alludes to them in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", Act II, Scene I (\"And I serve the fairy queen, / To dew her orbs upon the green\" and \"To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind\"), and \"The Tempest\", Act V, Scene I:\nShakespeare's contemporary Thomas Randolph speaks of fairy rings in his \"Amyntas, or the Impossible Dowry\" (1638), and Michael Drayton describes one in \"Nymphidia: The Court of Fairy\":\n\nFairy imagery became especially popular in the Victorian era. Thomas Hardy uses a fairy ring as a symbol of lost love in \"The Mayor of Casterbridge\" (1886); the character Michael Henchard passes a fairy ring and remembers that he last saw his wife Susan there when he sold her to a sailor in a drunken rage. Victorian poets who have referred to fairy rings in their works include Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Eliza Cook, Robert Stephen Hawker, Felicia Hemans, Gerald Massey, and Alfred, Lord Tennyson. W. H. Cummings composed the cantata \"The Fairy Ring\", and William Butler Yeats wrote of them in \"The Land of Heart's Desire\" (1894).\n\nFairy circles have appeared in European artwork since at least the 18th century. For example, William Blake painted \"Oberon, Titania and Puck with Fairies Dancing\", depicting a scene from Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", around 1785, and Daniel Maclise painted \"Faun and the Fairies\" around 1834. Images of fairies dancing in circles became a favourite trope of painters in the Victorian period. On the one hand, artists were genuinely interested in the culture such imagery represented, and on the other, fairies could be depicted as titillating nudes and semi-nudes without offending Victorian mores, which made them a popular subject of art collectors. Examples of Victorian fairy-ring paintings include \"Come unto these Yellow Sands\" (1842) by Richard Dadd and \"Reconciliation of Titania and Oberon\" (1847) by Joseph Noel Paton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38918706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38918706", "title": "Garghabazar Caravanserai", "text": "Garghabazar Caravanserai\n\nGarghabazar caravanserai () is a historic monument of XVII century. It is located in Garghabazar village, of Fuzuli District, in Azerbaijan.\n\nThe caravanserai was built in 1681 on a hill. It is known as Garghabazar caravanserai as it was built in Garghabazar village. The historic monument is sometimes referred as Shah Abbas caravansary. The architect of the monument is unknown, since inscription on the caravanserai is destroyed.\n\nAfter the occupation of Garghabazar village, the monument was ruined by Armenian forces.\n\nAccording to its architectural style, Garghabazar caravanserai is similar to architectural traditions of Albanian period.\n\nThe plan and architectural style of the caravanserai is made obedient to the general design by solving centered axis symmetrically. It consists of two large-sized camel stalls, two small rooms for guards on the right and left sides, 6 square-shaped rooms for caravanserai owner and merchants. The importance of these rooms is also reflected in the fact that they are built at the highest point of relief. Two high pavements were planted in front of these rooms according to their functions and relief.\n\nThe width of the caravanserai is 23.67 meters in width and 34.70 meters in length. The main mass of the monument was built of unhewn stone. It is in a rectangular shape with a corner cut. On left and right sides of the entrance, in front of guard rooms, there are two large flagstones. It is considered that guards used to stand on those flagstones. The doors of the rooms are opening to a medium-sized balcony. The balcony is decorated 3 semicircular piers.\n\nThere are special sewer lines in both halls of the caravanserai where camels were kept. This proves once again that in the Karabakh monarchy, sewage issues were still very much focused since ancient times.\n\n"}
{"id": "6820801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6820801", "title": "Gastronomicon", "text": "Gastronomicon\n\nGastronomicon is a short story and recipe collection published by the Canberra Speculative Fiction Guild. Printed in 2005 and edited by Stuart Barrow, it contains stories and recipes from several Australian speculative fiction authors.\nIt is also the title of a short story by Joanne Harris, published in March 2005 in her collection \"Jigs & Reels.\"\n\nThe collection contains the following stories:\n\nThe collection contains the following recipes:\n\nThe stories are illustrated by Brian Smith, Mik Bennett, Tony Flowers, and Ian McHugh. The cover art is by Les Petersen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55361373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55361373", "title": "George Rae (banker)", "text": "George Rae (banker)\n\nGeorge Rae (1817-1902) was a British banker and stockbroker based in Birkenhead. He is most notable for his patronage of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood and his commissioning and acquisition of works by Ford Madox Brown, Arthur Hughes and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. His commissions included Rossetti's \"The Beloved\", commissioned in 1863 for £300 but only completed two years later.\n"}
{"id": "5293582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5293582", "title": "Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics", "text": "Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics\n\nGet Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics is a 6x60 minutes documentary TV-series about the relationship between singers and politics in the USA, the UK, Germany and France from the 1960s until 2003. It was made in 2003 by Rudi Dolezal, Hannes Rossacher and Simon Witter as a joint production between German ZDF and the French-German culture channel Arte. It has since been shown by a number of other broadcasters in Europe, but also by Australia's ABC.\n\nThe series features interviews with well known singers and songwriters including Joan Baez, Tom Paxton, Bono, David Bowie, Johnny Cash, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Bob Dylan, Ice-T, Bob Geldof, Willie Nelson, Roger Waters, Bruce Springsteen, Pete Seeger, and Neil Young.\n\nA much shorter, two-hour version, called Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Protest, aired on PBS in September 2005, hosted and narrated by co-founder of Public Enemy Chuck D. The PBS version focuses mainly on the American history of protest songs.\n\nThe title is borrowed from the reggae protest song \"Get Up, Stand Up\" by Bob Marley and Peter Tosh.\n\n"}
{"id": "22690744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22690744", "title": "Havana Biennial", "text": "Havana Biennial\n\nThe Havana Biennial Art Exhibition takes place in Havana (Cuba) every two years. It principally aims at promoting the developing world in contemporary art circles, giving priority to Latin American and Caribbean artists, although artists from all over the world submit works.\n\nSince its first edition in 1984, the Biennial event has had central themes, among them tradition and contemporary times, challenges, art, society and reflection, man and memory, life with art and urban life. Works emphasize mainly paintings and other two-dimensional displays, using a variety of techniques.\n\nThe event was established in 1984. This edition exhibited artists only from Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe 1986 event included art from Africa and Asia and became the most important meeting place for artists from \"non-Western\" countries.\n\nLapses in the schedule were due to funding challenges. The 8th Biennial of 2002 was delayed an entire year, resuming in November 2003. This event showcased art within the social landscape, outside of traditional institutions. Artists normally unable or unwilling to participate with large institutions engaged diverse audiences by bringing art out of the museum and into the streets. Noteworthy artists to have \"activated\" the urban space include Mitchell Sipus and Fabiana de Barros.\n\nThe first two Biennial events included an awards ceremony, but the organizing committee then made it a non-competitive event.\n\nWith a central theme called \"Integration and resistance in the Globalization Era\", the 10th Havana Biennial Art Exhibition took place from March 27 to April 30, 2009. Experts from the Wifredo Lam Contemporary Art Center reviewed more than 400 proposals submitted by artists from 44 nations. For the first time, the organisers decided to include western countries.\n\nThe 10th edition added conferences, workshops, master classes, documentaries and video screenings. The artists transformed the city into a showcase of contemporary art, taking over all available urban spaces and municipal galleries.\n\nCommon topics included the tensions between tradition and contemporary reality, challenges to the historical processes of colonization, the relationships between art and society, individuals and memory, the effects of technological development on human communication and the dynamics of urban culture.\n\nThe curators for this 2009 Biennial were Margarita González, Nelson Herrera Ysla, José Manuel Noceda, Ibis Hernández Abascal, Margarita Sánchez Prieto, José Fernández Portal and Dannys Montes de Oca Moreda.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27142566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142566", "title": "International Association of Empirical Aesthetics", "text": "International Association of Empirical Aesthetics\n\nThe International Association of Empirical Aesthetics (IAEA) is a psychological organization founded to scientifically investigate the nature of aesthetic experience and aesthetic behavior. The group has members in over 25 countries. IAEA was founded at the first international congress in Paris in 1965 by Daniel Berlyne, Robert Francés, Carmelo Genovese, and Albert Wellek. \n\nAlthough IAEA has been active for half a century, the domain of experimental aesthetics is much older. It is the second-oldest branch of scientific psychology, traditionally dating from 1876, the year Gustav Theodor Fechner (1801-1887) published his \"Vorschule der Aesthetik\" (Preschool of Aesthetics). Fechner, who also is credited with founding psychophysics, established methods for examining aesthetic response to a variety of visual forms, including an exploration of the venerable Golden Section hypothesis. Since the inception of IAEA in 1965, research on empirical aesthetics has continued to progress, with many pioneers prominent in its membership: witness, for instance, such classic books such as Daniel Berlyne’s (1971) \"Aesthetics and Psychobiology\", Colin Martindale’s (1990) \"The Clockwork Muse: The Predictability of Artistic Change\", or a variety of more recent contributions from IAEA’s current members.\n\nThe International Association of Empirical Aesthetics (IAEA) is an organization of researchers who use scientific methods to investigate aesthetic experience and aesthetic behavior in a wide variety of domains, including encounters with beauty, visual art, music, literature, film, theater, philosophy, and museum behavior. Our membership includes individuals from psychology, neuroscience, sociology, museology, art history, philosophy, musicology, and other domains.\n\nCurrently, the officers of IAEA are President Helmut Leder (Vienna), Secretary Stefano Mastandrea (Rome) and Treasurer Thomas Jacobsen (Hamburg). A list of former officers can be found on the IAEA webpage.\n\nIAEA organizes bi-annual conferences. IAEA is closely associated with the journal \"Empirical Studies in the Arts\". IAEA gives several awards to recognize excellence in empirical research on aesthetics and creativity: The Gustav Theodor Fechner Award for Outstanding Contributions to Empirical Aesthetics. The Sir Francis Galton Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Study of Creativity. The Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten Award for Outstanding Contributions of Young Scientists.\n\n"}
{"id": "4777324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4777324", "title": "Itty Bitty Titty Committee", "text": "Itty Bitty Titty Committee\n\nItty Bitty Titty Committee is a feminist, lesbian-related comedy film directed by Jamie Babbit. It was released on September 28, 2007. The film had its premiere at the international film festival Berlinale on February 9, 2007, where it was nominated for a Teddy Award for Best Feature. It had its American premiere at SXSW in March where it won the Jury Prize for Best Feature. The film was produced by non-profit organization POWER UP.\n\nAnna has been rejected by her college, her girlfriend broke up with her, and her big sister is getting married. She meets Sadie, who invites her to join Clits In Action, or C(i)A, a radical Third-wave feminist group. Anna soon gets in touch with her political side. She takes part in illegal activism with the group and becomes more aggressive in her daily life.\n\nAnna starts falling for Sadie, who has been involved for years with an older woman named Courtney. Courtney works with a more mainstream feminist organization and disagrees with the C(i)A's method of creating awareness through public art, which usually involves vandalism.\n\nThe group travels to take part in a gay marriage protest – instead of being for or against it, they argue that marriage is the wrong goal, as it is an institution rooted in sexism. Despite being warned by another member of the C(i)A, Meat, that Sadie uses people, Anna shares a night of passion with her while they stay in a hotel. At the rally the next day, the outspoken Shulamith ends up nearly coming to blows with a protester. The fight is caught by a local news crew and the group's message is misconstrued as violent and homophobic. Meat also reveals that their website – which they considered the center of their activism – has not received hits from anyone besides themselves.\n\nC(i)A attempts to have a meeting at Courtney's home, but personal conflicts come to a head. Anna believes Sadie is going to leave Courtney to be with her, but Sadie remains dependent on her partner. Meat and Shulamith announce that they're giving up on the group, Sadie stays behind with Courtney, and Aggie (a transgender man who's part of the C(i)A) comforts Anna, who is heartbroken over Sadie's rejection and the loss of the C(i)A. They end up partying together and having a one-night stand. In the morning, Aggie has prepared breakfast and procured a flower for Anna, who only considers him a friend. Sadie arrives to talk about what happened the night before. Anna tries to explain that her night with Aggie meant nothing. He overhears and is deeply hurt. Sadie leaves and Anna finds herself truly alone.\n\nIn an attempt to fix things, Anna formulates a master plan to get C(i)A national attention. Meat and Shulamith like her idea, but insist she must make things right with Aggie. Anna apologizes, Aggie forgives her, and the four carry out the plan, without Sadie. \n\nAnna attends her sister's wedding, bringing joy to her family, but leaves early to execute her part of the plan – sneaking into the studio of a popular talk show with Aggie and Meat. Courtney is appearing on the show to argue about the appropriateness of a celebration over the (arbitrary) anniversary of the construction of the Washington Monument, which she feels is a distraction from real issues. When the host requests a live shot of the monument, the C(i)A feeds their footage in. With the expert help of one of Shulamith's lovers, Calvin (who was discharged from the military for being a lesbian under Don't Ask Don't Tell), and Meat's prowess with sculpture, a giant phallus has been erected atop the Washington Monument and is blown off with explosives. Back at the studio, Aggie pulls the fire alarm and the group escapes.\n\nIn the getaway car waiting for Anna, she is surprised to see Sadie, who has finally broken it off with Courtney. Sadie apologizes for her behavior, and the two agree to just be friends, but then kiss. Through text in the epilogue, it is revealed that Shulamith and Calvin volunteered to take the fall for the explosion, and received a reduced sentence because no one was hurt. Aggie started hormone therapy, started a new feminist group for men and got a girlfriend. Meat's sculpture appearing on TV launched her art career. Courtney took the talk show host, Marcy, out to dinner after fleeing the building together. Marcy subsequently left her husband to move in with Courtney. Anna and Sadie remain together, and Anna now attends college, where she has created a group focused on positive body image called the Itty Bitty Titty Committee.\n\n\nThe film was shot on Super 8 and Super 16 film to give it a grainy look. Babbit received permission from the Guerrilla Girls to use their slogans in the film.\n\nWhile the writing was considered better than \"But I'm A Cheerleader\", \"Itty Bitty Titty Committee\" was still criticized as weak and overly cliched. Also, the humor has been criticized as \"juvenile\", with the comment that the humor is probably intended to draw in a teenage girl audience.\n\nCharacterization was also criticized as being two-dimensional, but the portrayal of Anna's family as accepting of her homosexuality was considered refreshing.\n\nSome critics felt that the treatment of radical feminism could have pushed into more daring political territory. \"TV Guide\" opined that the foray into radicalism was \"embarrassingly obvious,\" and wouldn't be understood by people who didn't already like activism. The \"LA Weekly\" said that Anna's \"dogmatic, undergrad feminist speeches\" needed a \"satiric spark,\" and that she \"often comes off as a pill.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261419", "title": "John Bradley (United States Navy)", "text": "John Bradley (United States Navy)\n\nJohn Henry \"Jack\" \"Doc\" Bradley (July 10, 1923 – January 11, 1994) was a United States Navy Hospital corpsman who was awarded the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroism in combat on February 21, 1945 while assigned to a U.S. Marine Corps rifle company during the Battle of Iwo Jima in World War II.\n\nBradley was one of the members of the combat patrol that climbed, captured, and helped raise the original U.S. flags on top of Mount Suribachi on the morning of February 23, 1945. Until June 2016, Bradley was incorrectly identified as being one of the six men raising a second, larger flag about 90 minutes later, though he was still on the mountaintop and witnessed – but was not part of – the specific moment of raising the larger flag that was captured in the Pulitzer Prize-winning photo \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\" taken by Associated Press photographer Joe Rosenthal.\n\nJohn Bradley was born in Antigo, Wisconsin, to James (\"Cabbage\") and Kathryn Bradley. He was the second eldest of five children. He grew up in Appleton, Wisconsin, graduating from Appleton Senior High School in 1941. His younger sister Mary Ellen died of pneumonia at a young age. He had an interest in entering the funeral business from an early age, because he felt those were the men everyone looked up to, and later got a job at his local funeral home. He then completed an 18-month apprenticeship course with a local funeral director before he entered the U.S Navy during World War II.\n\nBradley enlisted the U.S. Navy on January 13, 1943 when his father suggested it as a way to avoid ground combat. Following his completion of Navy recruit training at the Farragut Naval Training Station at Bayview, Idaho, he was assigned to the Hospital Corps School at Farragut, Idaho in March 1943. After completing the Hospital corpsman course, he was assigned to Naval Hospital Oakland in Oakland, California. In January 1944, he was assigned to the Fleet Marine Force and sent to one of the \"field medical service schools\" at a Marine Corps base for training to serve with Marines. After completing the course, he was assigned to the 5th Marine Division on April 15, a newly activated infantry division which was then being formed at Camp Pendleton, California. He was reassigned there to Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 28th Marine Regiment of the division.\n\nOn February 19, 1945, the 5th Marine Division which included Bradley took part in the assault on Iwo Jima which was one of the most bitterly fought battles of the Pacific War's island-hopping campaign.\n\nBradley was assigned to Third Platoon, E Company, 2nd Battalion, 28th Marines before and when they landed on the beach with the ninth wave of assault Marines at the south end of Iwo Jima near Mount Suribachi. After Bradley and PhM3c. Clifford Langley, the other E Company corpsman assigned to Third Platoon, aided American casualties on the beach, they continued on with E Company as the 2nd Battalion, 28th Marines advanced towards Mount Suribachi, which was their objective on the southwest end of the island. On February 21, Bradley risked his life under fire to save the life of a Marine at the base of the mountain who was caught in the open under heavy Japanese fire. While still under and exposed to enemy fire, and in order to save the lives of other Marines who were willing to expose themselves under fire to bring back the wounded Marine, Bradley brought the wounded Marine to safety himself. He was awarded the Navy Cross for his actions.\n\nAt 8 AM on February 23, Bradley and Navy corpsman, PhM2c. Gerald Ziehme (replaced PhM3c. Langley who was wounded in action on February 21), were part of the 40-man combat patrol (mostly from Third Platoon, Easy Company) that was sent to climb up the east slope of Mount Suribachi to seize and occupy the crest. E Company's executive officer, First Lieutenant Harold Schrier who volunteered to lead the patrol, was to raise an American flag to signal that the mountaintop was captured.\n\nLt. Schrier and his men reached the top after a small number of Japanese sniper shots, then there was brief skirmish at the rim of the crater. On top, the Marines found a steel pipe to attach the flag unto. The flagstaff was taken to the highest position on the crater. Schrier, Platoon Sgt. Ernest Thomas and Sgt. Henry Hansen, raised the flag, planting the steel pipe into the ground approximately 10:20 AM. Seeing the raising of the national colors immediately caused loud cheering from the Marines, sailors, and Coast Guardsmen on the beach below and from the men on the ships near the beach. After the flag was raised, Bradley, who was with the group of Marines near the flagstaff, pitched in to help the flagstaff stay vertical in the terrific winds on the volcano.\n\nIn order for the American flag to be seen more easily from the ships, beaches, and land off and around Mount Suribachi, it was decided that another larger flag should be flown on Mt. Suribachi. Marine Sgt. Michael Strank a squad leader from Second Platoon, E Company, was ordered to ascend Mount Suribachi with three Marines from his squad and raise the replacement flag. He then ordered Cpl. Harlon Block, Pfc. Ira Hayes, and Pfc. Franklin Sousley to go with him up Suribachi. Pfc. Rene Gagnon the company's runner (messenger), was ordered to take the replacement flag up the mountain and return with the first flag that was flying on top.\n\nOnce all five Marines were on top, another pipe was found and the replacement flag was attached to it. At approximately 1 PM, Lt. Schrier ordered the raising of the replacement flag and the lowering of the original flag. The flag was raised by Block (misidentified as Sgt. Hansen until January 1947), Gagnon, Hayes, Pfc. Harold Schultz (misidentified as Bradley until June 23, 2016), Sousley and Strank. Both men originally misidentified as flag raisers had helped raise the earlier flag, and were both still on the mountaintop and witnessed – but were not part of – the specific moment of raising the larger flag that was captured in Joe Rosenthal's Pulitzer Prize-winning photo \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\".\n\nOn March 4, Bradley shot a Japanese soldier charging him with a bayonet with his pistol as he treated a wounded Marine in a shell hole.\n\nOn March 12, Bradley and three Marines received shrapnel wounds from an enemy mortar round explosion. All four were quickly attended to by other corpsmen. Bradley was wounded in the legs and feet and was evacuated from the combat zone to the battalion aid station, field hospital, and was flown to Guam, Hawaii, and Oakland Naval Hospital. He was awarded the Purple Heart Medal. On March 14, General Holland Smith ordered an American flag raised at Kitano Point on the northern end of the island, and the flag flying on the summit of Mount Suribachi be taken down. The battle of Iwo Jima was officially over on March 26.\n\nOn March 30, 1945, President Roosevelt ordered that the three flag-raisers in Joe Rosenthal's photograph be sent immediately to Washington, D.C. to appear as a public morale factor. On April 8, the Marine Corps announced that Gagnon, Hayes, and Bradley were the three surviving flag-raisers in the picture and that Sgt. Hansen, Sgt. Strank, and Pfc. Sousley were killed in action. On April 19, Gagnon, Hayes, and Bradley's services were requested to participate in the Seventh War Loan drive. On May 9, a flag-raising by Hayes, Gagnon, and Bradley at the Nation's capital kicked off the bond-selling tour which began on May 11 in New York and ended on July 4 with Gagnon and Bradley's return to Washington, D.C. (Hayes left the bond tour on May 25 after he was ordered back to E Company in Hawaii). The bond tour was held in 33 American cities that raised over $26 billion to help pay for and win the war (the war was over in Europe on May 2).\n\nBradley was medically discharged from the Navy in November 1945.\n\nBradley married Betty Van Gorp (1924–2013), settled in Antigo, had eight children, and was active in numerous civic clubs, rarely taking part in ceremonies celebrating the flag-raising — and by the 1960s avoiding them altogether. He subsequently purchased and managed a funeral parlor. Bradley's wife later said he was tormented by memories of the war, wept in his sleep for the first four years of their marriage and kept a large knife in a dresser drawer for \"protection\". He also had flashbacks of his best friend Iggy, Ralph Ignatowski, who was captured and tortured by Japanese soldiers. Bradley could not forgive himself for not being there to try and save his friend's life.\n\nThe Marine Corps War Memorial (also known as the Iwo Jima Memorial) in Arlington, Virginia, which was inspired by Rosenthal's photograph of the second flag-raising on Mount Suribachi was dedicated on November 10, 1954.\n\nUntil June 23, 2016, Bradley was incorrectly depicted on the memorial as the third bronze statue from the base of the flagstaff with the 32-foot (9.8 M) bronze statues of the other five flag-raisers on the monument. Franklin Sousley is now depicted as the third bronze statue from the base of the flagstaff (Harold Schultz in place of Sousley is now depicted as the fifth statue).\n\nPresident Dwight D. Eisenhower attended the dedication of the memorial and sat upfront with Vice President Richard Nixon, Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Anderson, and General Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., the 20th Commandant of the Marine Corps. Also in attendance were two of the three surviving flag-raisers, Ira Hayes and Rene Gagnon, who were seated together with Bradley (who was incorrectly believed to be a surviving second flag-raiser) in the front rows of seats along with relatives of those who were killed in action on the island. Speeches were given by Richard Nixon, Robert Anderson who dedicated the memorial, and General Shepherd who presented the memorial to the American people. Inscribed on the memorial are the following words:\n\nBradley had a heart attack, but died of a stroke at 2:12 am in an Antigo hospital on January 11, 1994, at the age of 70. He is buried in Queen of Peace Cemetery, Antigo, Wisconsin.\n\nOn June 23, 2016, the Marine Corps announced after reviewing new information in regard to the identities of the six second flag-raisers atop Mount Suribachi on February 23, 1945, that Marine Harold Schultz not Bradley is in Joe Rosenthal's photograph of the second flag-raising (Franklin Sousley is now where Bradley was thought to be in the photo and Schultz is now where Sousley was in the picture). The Marine Corps stated Bradley was involved with the first flag-raising on Mount Suribachi the same day. A previous Marine Corps investigation into the identities of the six second flag-raisers was held in December 1946 and January 1947 that determined Marines Michael Strank, Ira Hayes, Franklin Sousley, Rene Gagnon, Harlon Block and Navy corpsman John Bradley were in the photograph, and Marine Henry Hansen was not. Bradley is no longer identified as one of the six flag-raisers on the Marine Corps War Memorial.\n\nOn April 3, 1945, Gagnon was the first second flag-raiser ordered to report to Washington, D.C. which he did on April 7, 1945. On April 8, after Gagnon was interviewed by a lieutenant colonel about who the second flag-raisers were, the Marine Corps incorrectly named Bradley (and incorrectly named Hansen) publicly as one of the six flag-raisers. While Bradley was recovering from his wounds at the Naval Hospital Oakland after the battle, he was shown the famous flag-raising photograph which appeared in the newspapers and was told he was in it. Bradley was then ordered to Washington, D.C. He arrived in Washington on crutches on April 19 as did Ira Hayes. Both men were interviewed by the same lieutenant colonel about who the flag-raisers were in the photograph. Bradley agreed with Gagnon and his naming Hansen and himself as flag-raisers. Hayes also named Bradley, and claimed he told the interviewer in charge who was the same lieutenant colonel, that Harlon Block was in the picture and Hansen was not. The interviewer told Hayes a list of the names of the six flag-raisers were already released publicly and he should stick only with these six names since Block was killed in action (in 1946, the lieutenant colonel denied Hayes ever mentioned Block to him).\n\nOn April 20, Gagnon, Hayes, and Bradley met Truman at the White House and each showed him their positions in the flag-raising picture. A press conference was also held that day and Gangon, Hayes, and Bradley were questioned about the flag-raising. On May 9, 1945, Bradley did an oral interview for the Navy by a captain about the famous flag-raising on Mount Suribachi, and incorrectly said he was in the second flag-raising picture, and when questioned about the first flag-raising, he said Platoon Sgt. Ernest Thomas raised that flag. In 1985, he did another interview about the flag-raising (second raising) at the urging of his wife, who had told him to do it for the sake of their grandchildren. During that interview, Bradley said that he would not have raised the flag if he had known how famous the photo (Rosenthal photograph) would become. He stated that he did not want to live with the pressures of the media and desired to live a normal life. He also stated, during the interview, that anyone on the island could have raised the flag and that he was just there at the right time \n\nBradley rarely did an interview for the newspapers, he refused to talk to and avoided reporters as much as possible. Throughout his life, the press would contact his home to ask for interviews and he trained his wife and children to give excuses such as he \"was on a fishing trip in Canada.\" Even during the filming of the movie the \"Sands of Iwo Jima\" in 1949, Bradley told his wife to tell the townspeople that he was \"on a business trip\" in order to avoid attention that would be drawn to him.\" Despite his reluctance to talk to the media, family, and friends about the incident, he told his parents in a letter a few days after the incident that raising the flag was the \"happiest moment of my life\", though he was most likely referring to the first flag raising where he helped secure the flagstaff into the ground after it was raised and planted.\n\nBradley saw the flag raising(s) as an insignificant event in a devastating battle. He rarely talked to people about it and spent most of his life trying to escape the attention he drew from allegedly raising it. He stated once that he \"just happened to be there\". He spoke to his wife once about the flag raising during their 47-year marriage. That was on their first date, and he seemed very uninterested with it during the conversation. His daughter Barbara said that \"Reading a book on Iwo Jima at home would have been like reading a playgirl magazine…it would have been something I had to hide.\" He told his children more than once that the only real heroes on Iwo Jima were those that did not survive.\n\nHis son James Bradley speculated that his father's determined silence and discomfort on the subject of his role in the Battle of Iwo Jima was largely due to memories of Bradley's wartime buddy, Marine Ralph \"Iggy\" Ignatowski. In his own words, and only once, he briefly told his son what happened with \"Iggy\":\n\nOfficial reports revealed Ignatowski was captured, dragged into a tunnel by Japanese soldiers during the battle, and was later found with his eyes, ears, fingernails, and tongue removed, his teeth smashed, the back of his head caved in, multiple bayonet wounds to the abdomen, and his arms broken. Bradley's recollections of discovering and taking care of Ignatowski's remains haunted him until his death, and he suffered for many years from post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nBradley's military decorations and awards include:\n\nBradley played and was portrayed an American flag raiser in the following films, prior to the 2016 correction that it should be Harold Schultz, rather than Bradley:\n\n\nThe following are named in memory of Bradley:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22646598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22646598", "title": "Las Vegas Entertainer of the Year", "text": "Las Vegas Entertainer of the Year\n\nSince 2001, the ECE membership selects the Las Vegas Entertainer of the Year. Entertainment Consumers Exchange is a national non-profit organization for fans and their favorites in entertainment. \n"}
{"id": "43698127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43698127", "title": "Laughing Boy with Flute", "text": "Laughing Boy with Flute\n\nLaughing Boy with a Flute is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in the early 1620s.\n\nThis painting was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote \"31. A LAUGHING BOY WITH A FLUTE. M. 240. Half-length, in profile to the left. The head is three-quarters left. The long hair falls in disorder. The lips are parted, showing the teeth. On the left the flute is held upright in the right hand. The eyes look to the \nleft and slightly upward. Lifelike colour in the face. Circular panel, n| inches across the grain of the wood running diagonally. A copy is in the Boucher de Perthes Museum, Abbeville. In the collection of the late Alfred Beit, London. In the collection of Otto Beit, London.\"\n\nHofstede de Groot noted several laughing boys by Hals along with this one (catalogue numbers 11 through to 39). This painting was also documented by W.R. Valentiner in 1923.\n\nOther boys painted by Hals in round tondos:\n"}
{"id": "227007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227007", "title": "Lettrism", "text": "Lettrism\n\nLettrism is a French avant-garde movement, established in Paris in the mid-1940s by Romanian immigrant Isidore Isou. In a body of work totaling hundreds of volumes, Isou and the Lettrists have applied their theories to all areas of art and culture, most notably in poetry, film, painting and political theory. The movement has its theoretical roots in Dada and Surrealism. Isou viewed his fellow countryman Tristan Tzara as the greatest creator and rightful leader of the Dada movement, and dismissed most of the others as plagiarists and falsifiers. Among the Surrealists, André Breton was a significant influence, but Isou was dissatisfied by what he saw as the stagnation and theoretical bankruptcy of the movement as it stood in the 1940s.\n\nIn French, the movement is called Lettrisme, from the French word for \"letter\", arising from the fact that many of their early works centred on letters and other visual or spoken symbols. The \"Lettristes\" themselves prefer the spelling 'Letterism' for the Anglicised term, and this is the form that is used on those rare occasions when they produce or supervise English translations of their writings: however, 'Lettrism' is at least as common in English usage. The term, having been the original name that was first given to the group, has lingered as a blanket term to cover all of their activities, even as many of these have moved away from any connection to letters. But other names have also been introduced, either for the group as a whole or for its activities in specific domains, such as 'the Isouian movement', 'youth uprising', 'hypergraphics', 'creatics', 'infinitesimal art' and 'excoördism'.\n\n1925. Isidore Goldstein is born at Botoşani, Romania, on January 31, to an Ashkenazi Jewish family. During the early 1950s, Goldstein would be signing himself 'Jean-Isidore Isou'; otherwise, it has always been 'Isidore Isou'. 'Isou' is standardly taken to be a pseudonym, but Isou/Goldstein himself resists this interpretation.\n\nMy name is Isou. My mother called me Isou, only it's written differently in Romanian. And Goldstein: I'm not ashamed of my name. At Gallimard, I was known as Isidore Isou Goldstein. Isou, it's my name! Only in Romanian it's written Izu, but in French it's Isou.\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral continuation of existing currents, together with new research into psychiatry, mathematics, physics, and chemistry.\nOther members to join the lettrism during the seventies : Woody Roehmer, Anne-Catherine Caron, and during the eighties : Frédérique Devaux, Michel Amarger ...\n\nDevelopment of excoordism. Uncomfortable with the direction the group is going in, Lemaître—Isou's right-hand man for nearly half a century—begins to distance himself from it. He still continues to pursue traditional Letterist techniques, but now in relative isolation from the main group.\n\n\nIsou first invented these phases through an examination of the history of poetry, but the conceptual apparatus he developed could very easily be applied to most other branches of art and culture. In poetry, he felt that the first amplic phase had been initiated by Homer. In effect, Homer set out a blueprint for what a poem ought to be like. Subsequent poets then developed this blueprint, investigating by means of their work all of the different things that could be done within the Homeric parameters. Eventually, however, everything that \"could be\" done within that approach \"had been\" done. In poetry, Isou felt that this point was reached with Victor Hugo (and in painting with Eugène Delacroix, in music with Richard Wagner.). When amplic poetry had been completed, there was simply nothing to be gained by continuing to produce works constructed according to the old model. There would no longer be any genuine creativity or innovation involved, and hence no aesthetic value. This then inaugurated a chiselling phase in the art. Whereas the form had formerly been used as a tool to express things outside its own domain—events, feelings, etc.--it would then turn in on itself and become, perhaps only implicitly, its own subject matter. From Charles Baudelaire to Tristan Tzara (as, in painting, from Manet to Kandinsky; or, in music, from Debussy to Luigi Russolo), subsequent poets would deconstruct the grand edifice of poetry that had been developed over the centuries according to the Homeric model. Finally, when this process of deconstruction had been completed, it would then be time for a new amplic phase to commence. Isou saw himself as the man to show the way. He would take the rubble that remained after the old forms had been shattered, and lay out a new blueprint for reutilising these most basic elements in a radically new way, utterly unlike the poetry of the preceding amplic phase. Isou identified the most basic elements of poetic creation as \"letters\"—i.e. uninterpreted visual symbols and acoustic sounds—and he set out the parameters for new ways of recombining these ingredients in the name of new aesthetic goals.\n\nIsou's idea for the poem of the future was that it should be purely formal, devoid of all semantic content. The Letterist poem, or \"lettrie\", in many ways resembles what certain Italian Futurists (such as Filippo Tommaso Marinetti), Russian Futurists (such as Velemir Chlebnikov, Iliazd, or Alexej Kručenych—cf. Zaum), and Dada poets (such as Raoul Hausmann or Kurt Schwitters) had already been doing, and what subsequent sound poets and concrete poets (such as Bob Cobbing, Eduard Ovčáček or Henri Chopin) would later be doing. However, the Letterists were always keen to insist on their own radical originality and to distinguish their work from other ostensibly similar currents.\n\nOn the visual side, the Letterists first gave the name 'metagraphics' (\"metagraphie\") and then 'hypergraphics' (\"hypergraphie\") to their new synthesis of writing and visual art. Some precedents may be seen in Cubist, Dada and Futurist (both Italian and Russian) painting and typographical works, such as Marinetti's Zang Tumb Tuum, or in poems such as Apollinaire's \"Calligrammes\" but none of them were a full system like hypergraphy.\n\nNotwithstanding the considerably more recent origins of film-making, compared to poetry, painting or music, Isou felt in 1950 that its own first amplic phase had already been completed. He therefore set about inaugurating a chiselling phase for the cinema. As he explained in the voiceover to his first film, \"Treatise of Slime and Eternity\":\n\nI believe firstly that the cinema is too rich. It is obese. It has reached its limits, its maximum. With the first movement of widening which it will outline, the cinema will burst! Under the blow of a congestion, this \"greased pig\" will tear into a thousand pieces. I announce the \"destruction of the cinema\", the first apocalyptic sign of disjunction, of rupture, of this corpulent and bloated organization which calls itself film.\n\nThe two central innovations of Letterist film were: (i) the carving of the image (\"la ciselure d'image\"), where the film-maker would deliberately scratch or paint onto the actual film stock itself. Similar techniques are also employed in Letterist still photography. (ii) Discrepant cinema (\"le cinéma discrépant\"), where the soundtrack and the image-track would be separated, each one telling a different story or pursuing its own more abstract path. The most radical of the Letterist films, Wolman's \"The Anticoncept\" and Debord's \"Howls for Sade\", went even further, and abandoned images altogether. From a visual point of view, the former consisted simply of a fluctuating ball of light, projected onto a large balloon, while the latter alternated a blank white screen (when there was speech in the soundtrack) and a totally black screen (accompanying ever-increasing periods of total silence). In addition, the Letterists utilised material appropriated from other films, a technique which would subsequently be developed (under the title of 'détournement') in Situationist film. They would also often supplement the film with live performance, or, through the 'film-debate', directly involve the audience itself in the total experience.\n\nThe supertemporal frame was a device for inviting and enabling an audience to participate in the creation of a work of art. In its simplest form, this might involve nothing more than the inclusion of several blank pages in a book, for the reader to add his or her own contributions.\n\nRecalling the infinitesimals of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, quantities which could not actually exist except conceptually, the Letterists developed the notion of a work of art which, by its very nature, could never be created in reality, but which could nevertheless provide aesthetic rewards by being contemplated intellectually. Also called \"Art esthapériste\" ('infinite-aesthetics'). Cf. Conceptual Art. Related to this, and arising out of it, is excoördism, the current incarnation of the Isouian movement, defined as the art of the infinitely large and the infinitely small.\n\nIsou identified the amplic phase of political theory and economics as that of Adam Smith and free trade; its chiselling phase was that of Karl Marx and socialism. Isou termed these 'atomic economics' and 'molecular economics' respectively: he launched 'nuclear economics' as a corrective to both of them. Both currents, he felt, had simply failed to take into account a large part of the population, namely those young people and other 'externs' who neither produced nor exchanged goods or capital in any significant way. He felt that the creative urge was an integral part of human nature, but that, unless it was properly guided, it could be diverted into crime and anti-social behaviour. The Letterists sought to restructure every aspect of society in such a way as to enable these externs to channel their creativity in more positive ways.\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Letterists have published literally hundreds of books, journals and substantial articles in French, virtually none of these have been translated into English. One recent exception is:\n\n\nMaurice Lemaître has privately published translations of a few of his own works, though these are not at all easy to find:\n\nBlack Scat Books: 2012 (http://www.blackscatbooks.com)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40106197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40106197", "title": "Literature in early modern Scotland", "text": "Literature in early modern Scotland\n\nLiterature in early modern Scotland is literature written in Scotland or by Scottish writers between the Renaissance in the early sixteenth century and the beginnings of the Enlightenment and Industrial Revolution in mid-eighteenth century. By the beginning of this era Gaelic had been in geographical decline for three centuries and had begun to be a second class language, confined to the Highlands and Islands, but the tradition of Classic Gaelic Poetry survived. Middle Scots became the language of both the nobility and the majority population. The establishment of a printing press in 1507 made it easier to disseminate Scottish literature and was probably aimed at bolstering Scottish national identity.\n\nJames IV's creation of a Renaissance court included the patronage of poets, or makars, who were mainly clerics. These included Gavin Douglas, whose \"Eneados\" (1513) was the first complete translation of a major classical text in an Anglian language. James V was also a major patron of poets. George Buchanan founded a tradition of neo-Latin poetry. In the reign of Mary, Queen of Scots and the minority of her son James VI, cultural pursuits were limited by the lack of a royal court and by political turmoil. The Kirk discouraged poetry that was not devotional in nature but secular poetry survived. In the 1580s and 1590s James VI promoted literature in Scots. He became patron and member of a loose circle of Scottish court poets and musicians, later called the Castalian Band. David Lyndsay's \"The Thrie Estaitis\" (1540) is the only complete play to survive from before the Reformation. Buchanan was major influence on Continental theatre, but his impact in Scotland was limited by his choice of Latin as a medium. There were isolated Scottish plays, but the system of professional companies of players and theatres that developed in England in this period was absent in Scotland.\n\nThe accession of James VI to the English throne in 1603 meant a loss of the court as a centre of patronage and he increasingly favoured the language of southern England. A number of Scottish poets accompanied the king to London, where they began to anglicise their written language. As the tradition of classical Gaelic poetry declined, a new tradition of vernacular Gaelic poetry began to emerge, often undertaken by women. The tradition of neo-Latin poetry reached its fruition with the publication of the anthology of the \"Deliciae Poetarum Scotorum\" (1637). This period was marked by the work of the first named female Scottish poets, such as Elizabeth Melville, whose \"Ane Godlie Dream\" (1603) was the first book published by a woman in Scotland. This was the period when the ballad emerged as a significant written form in Scotland. From the seventeenth century they were used as a literary form by aristocratic authors.\n\nAfter the Union in 1707, the use of Scots was discouraged by many in authority and education. Allan Ramsay led a \"vernacular revival\" that laid the foundations of a reawakening of interest in older Scottish literature. He also led the trend for pastoral poetry and his pastoral opera \"The Gentle Shepherd\" was one of the most influential works of the era. Ramsay was part of a community of poets working in Scots and English. Tobias Smollett was a poet, essayist, satirist and playwright, but is best known for his picaresque novels, for which he is often seen as Scotland's first novelist. The early eighteenth century was also a period of innovation in Gaelic vernacular poetry that mixed traditional forms with influences from the Lowlands. Drama was pursued by Scottish playwrights in London. In Scotland drama was supplied by visiting English players and actors, but there were clashes with the Kirk. Ramsay was instrumental in establishing a small theatre in Edinburgh, but it closed soon after the passing of the 1737 Licensing Act. A new theatre was opened at Cannongate in 1747 and operated without a licence into the 1760s.\n\nBy the early modern era Gaelic had been in geographical decline for three centuries and had begun to be a second class language, confined to the Highlands and Islands. The tradition of classic Gaelic poetry survived longer in Scotland than in Ireland, with the last fully competent member of the MacMhuirich dynasty, who were hereditary poets to the Lords of the Isles and then the Donalds of Clanranald, still working in the early eighteenth century. Nevertheless, interest in the sponsorship of panegyric Gaelic poetry was declining among the clan leaders. Gaelic was gradually being overtaken by Middle Scots, which became the language of both the nobility and the majority population. Middle Scots was derived substantially from Old English, with Gaelic and French influences. It was usually called \"Inglyshe\" and was very close to the language spoken in northern England, but by the sixteenth century it had established orthographic and literary norms largely independent of those developing in England. From the mid sixteenth century, written Scots was increasingly influenced by the developing Standard English of Southern England due to developments in royal and political interactions with England. With the increasing influence and availability of books printed in England, most writing in Scotland came to be done in the English fashion.\n\nThe establishment of a printing press under royal patent in 1507 would begin to make it easier to disseminate Scottish literature and was probably aimed at bolstering Scottish national identity. The first Scottish press was established in Southgait in Edinburgh by the merchant Walter Chepman (c. 1473–c. 1528) and the bookseller Andrew Myllar (fl. 1505–08). Although the first press was relatively short lived, beside law codes and religious works, the press also produced editions of the work of Scottish makars before its demise, probably about 1510. The next recorded press was that of Thomas Davidson (f. 1532–42), the first in a long line of \"king's printers\", who also produced editions of works of the makars.\n\nJames IV's (r. 1488–1513) creation of a Renaissance court included the patronage of poets. These court poets, or makars, who were mainly clerics included Robert Henryson (c. 1450-c. 1505), who re-worked Medieval and Classical sources, such as Chaucer and Aesop in works such as his \"Testament of Cresseid\" and \"The Morall Fabillis\". William Dunbar (1460–1513) produced satires, lyrics, invectives and dream visions that established the vernacular as a flexible medium for poetry of any kind. Gavin Douglas (1475–1522), who became Bishop of Dunkeld, injected humanist concerns and classical sources into his poetry. The landmark work in the reign of James IV was Douglas's version of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the \"Eneados\". It was the first complete translation of a major classical text in an Anglian language, finished in 1513, but overshadowed by the disaster at Flodden that brought the reign to an end.\nAs a patron of poets and authors James V (r. 1513–42) supported William Stewart and John Bellenden, who translated the Latin \"History of Scotland\" compiled in 1527 by Hector Boece, into verse and prose. David Lyndsay (c. 1486–1555), diplomat and the head of the Lyon Court, was a prolific poet. He wrote elegiac narratives, romances and satires. George Buchanan (1506–82) had a major influence as a Latin poet, founding a tradition of neo-Latin poetry that would continue in to the seventeenth century. Contributors to this tradition included royal secretary John Maitland (1537–95), reformer Andrew Melville (1545–1622), John Johnston (1570?–1611) and David Hume of Godscroft (1558–1629).\n\nFrom the 1550s, in the reign of Mary, Queen of Scots (r. 1542–67) and the minority of her son James VI (r. 1567–1625), cultural pursuits were limited by the lack of a royal court and by political turmoil. The Kirk, heavily influenced by Calvinism, also discouraged poetry that was not devotional in nature. Nevertheless, poets from this period included Richard Maitland of Lethington (1496–1586), who produced meditative and satirical verses in the style of Dunbar; John Rolland (fl. 1530–75), who wrote allegorical satires in the tradition of Douglas and courtier and minister Alexander Hume (c. 1556–1609), whose corpus of work includes nature poetry and epistolary verse. Alexander Scott's (?1520–82/3) use of short verse designed to be sung to music, opened the way for the Castalian poets of James VI's adult reign.\n\nUnlike many of his predecessors, James VI actively despised Gaelic culture. However, in the 1580s and 1590s he strongly promoted the literature of the country of his birth in Scots. His treatise, \"Some Rules and Cautions to be Observed and Eschewed in Scottish Prosody\", published in 1584 when he was aged 18, was both a poetic manual and a description of the poetic tradition in his mother tongue, to which he applied Renaissance principles. He became patron and member of a loose circle of Scottish Jacobean court poets and musicians, later called the Castalian Band, which included William Fowler (c. 1560–1612), John Stewart of Baldynneis (c. 1545–c. 1605), and Alexander Montgomerie (c. 1550–98). They translated key Renaissance texts and produced poems using French forms, including sonnets and short sonnets, for narrative, nature description, satire and meditations on love. Later poets that followed in this vein included William Alexander (c. 1567–1640), Alexander Craig (c. 1567–1627) and Robert Ayton (1570–1627). By the late 1590s the king's championing of his native Scottish tradition was to some extent diffused by the prospect of inheriting of the English throne.\n\nLyndsay produced an interlude at Linlithgow Palace for the king and queen thought to be a version of his play \"The Thrie Estaitis\" in 1540, which satirised the corruption of church and state, and which is the only complete play to survive from before the Reformation. Buchanan was major influence on Continental theatre with plays such as \"Jepheths\" and \"Baptistes\", which influenced Pierre Corneille and Jean Racine and through them the neo-classical tradition in French drama, but his impact in Scotland was limited by his choice of Latin as a medium. The anonymous \"The Maner of the Cyring of ane Play\" (before 1568) and \"Philotus\" (published in London in 1603), are isolated examples of surviving plays. The latter is a vernacular Scots comedy of errors, probably designed for court performance for Mary, Queen of Scots or James VI. The same system of professional companies of players and theatres that developed in England in this period was absent in Scotland, but James VI signalled his interest in drama by arranging for a company of English players to erect a playhouse and perform in 1599.\n\nHaving extolled the virtues of Scots \"poesie\", after his accession to the English throne, James VI increasingly favoured the language of southern England. In 1611 the Kirk adopted the English Authorised King James Version of the Bible. In 1617 interpreters were declared no longer necessary in the port of London because Scots and Englishmen were now \"not so far different bot ane understandeth ane uther\". Jenny Wormald described James as creating a \"three-tier system, with Gaelic at the bottom and English at the top\". The loss of the court as a centre of patronage in 1603 was a major blow to Scottish literature. A number of Scottish poets, including William Alexander, John Murray and Robert Aytoun, accompanied the king to London, where they continued to write, but they soon began to anglicise their written language. James's characteristic role as active literary participant and patron in the English court made him a defining figure for English Renaissance poetry and drama, which would reach a pinnacle of achievement in his reign, but his patronage for the high style in his own Scottish tradition largely became sidelined. The only significant court poet to continue to work in Scotland after the king's departure was William Drummond of Hawthornden (1585–1649).\nAs the tradition of classical Gaelic poetry declined, a new tradition of vernacular Gaelic poetry began to emerge. While Classical poetry used a language largely fixed in the twelfth century, the vernacular continued to develop. In contrast to the Classical tradition, which used syllabic metre, vernacular poets tended to use stressed metre. However, they shared with the Classic poets a set of complex metaphors and role, as the verse was still often panegyric. A number of these vernacular poets were women, such as Mary MacLeod of Harris (c. 1615–1707).\n\nThe tradition of neo-Latin poetry reached its fruition with the publication of the anthology of the \"Deliciae Poetarum Scotorum\" (1637), published in Amsterdam by Arthur Johnston (c.1579–1641) and Sir John Scott of Scotstarvet (1585–1670) and containing work by the major Scottish practitioners since Buchanan. This period was marked by the work of the first named female Scottish poets. Elizabeth Melville's (f. 1585–1630) \"Ane Godlie Dream\" (1603) was a popular religious allegory and the first book published by a woman in Scotland. Anna Hume, daughter of David Hume of Godscroft, adapted Petrarch's \"Triumphs\" as \"Triumphs of Love: Chastitie: Death\" (1644).\n\nThis was the period when the ballad emerged as a significant written form in Scotland. Some ballads may date back to the late medieval era and deal with events and people that can be traced back as far as the thirteenth century, including \"Sir Patrick Spens\" and \"Thomas the Rhymer\", but which are not known to have existed until the eighteenth century. They were probably composed and transmitted orally and only began to be written down and printed, often as broadsides and as part of chapbooks, later being recorded and noted in books by collectors including Robert Burns and Walter Scott. From the seventeenth century they were used as a literary form by aristocratic authors including Robert Sempill (c. 1595-c. 1665), Lady Elizabeth Wardlaw (1627–1727) and Lady Grizel Baillie (1645–1746).\n\nThe loss of a royal court also meant there was no force to counter the Kirk's dislike of theatre, which struggled to survive in Scotland. However, it was not entirely extinguished. The Kirk used theatre for its own purposes in schools and was slow to suppress popular folk dramas. Surviving plays for the period include William Alexander's \"Monarchicke Tragedies\", written just before his departure with the king for England in 1603. They were closet dramas, designed to be read rather than performed, and already indicate Alexander's preference for southern English over the Scots language. There were some attempts to revive Scottish drama. In 1663 Edinburgh lawyer William Clerke wrote \"Marciano or the Discovery\", a play about the restoration of a legitimate dynasty in Florence after many years of civil war. It was performed at the Tennis-Court Theatre at Holyrood Palace before the parliamentary high commissioner John Leslie, Earl of Rothes. Thomas Sydsurf's \"Tarugo's Wiles or the Coffee House\", was first performed in London in 1667 and then in Edinburgh the year after and drew on Spanish comedy. A relative of Sydsurf, physician Archibald Pitcairne (1652–1713) wrote \"The Assembly or Scotch Reformation\" (1692), a ribald satire on the morals of the Presbyterian Kirk, circulating in manuscript, but not published until 1722, helping to secure the association between Jacobitism and professional drama that discouraged the creation of professional theatre.\n\nAfter the Union in 1707 and the shift of political power to England, the use of Scots was discouraged by many in authority and education. Nevertheless, Scots remained the vernacular of many rural communities and the growing number of urban working-class Scots. Literature developed a distinct national identity and began to enjoy an international reputation. Allan Ramsay (1686–1758) was considered the most important literary figure of the era, often described as leading a \"vernacular revival\". He laid the foundations of a reawakening of interest in older Scottish literature, publishing \"The Ever Green\" (1724), a collection that included many major poetic works of the Stewart period. He led the trend for pastoral poetry, helping to develop the Habbie stanza, which would be later be used by Robert Burns as a poetic form. His \"Tea-Table Miscellany\" (1724–37) contained poems old Scots folk material, his own poems in the folk style and \"gentilizings\" of Scots poems in the English neo-classical style. His pastoral opera \"The Gentle Shepherd\" was one of the most influential works of the era. He would also play a leading role in supporting drama in Scotland and the attempt to found a permanent theatre in the capital.\n\nRamsay was part of a community of poets working in Scots and English. These included William Hamilton of Gilbertfield (c. 1665–1751), Robert Crawford (1695–1733), Alexander Ross (1699–1784), the Jacobite William Hamilton of Bangour (1704–54), socialite Alison Rutherford Cockburn (1712–94), and poet and playwright James Thompson's (1700–48), most famous for the nature poetry of his \"Seasons\". Tobias Smollett (1721–71) was a poet, essayist, satirist and playwright, but is best known for his picaresque novels, such as \"The Adventures of Roderick Random\" (1748) and \"The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle\" (1751) for which he is often seen as Scotland's first novelist. His work would be a major influence on later novelists such as Thackeray and Dickens.\nThe early eighteenth century was also a period of innovation in Gaelic vernacular poetry. Major figures included Rob Donn Mackay (1714–78) and Donnchadh Bàn Mac an t-Saoir (Duncan Ban MacIntyre) (1724–1812). The most significant figure in the tradition was Alasdair mac Mhaighstir Alasdair (Alasdair MacDonald) (c. 1698–1770). His interest in traditional forms can be seen in his most significant poem \"Clanranald's Gallery\". He also mixed these traditions with influences from the Lowlands, including Thompson's \"Seasons\", which helped inspire a new form of nature poetry in Gaelic, which was not focused on their relations to human concerns.\n\nDrama was pursued by Scottish playwrights in London such as Catherine Trotter (1679–1749), born in London to Scottish parents and later moving to Aberdeen. Her plays and included the verse-tragedy \"Fatal Friendship\" (1698), the comedy \"Love at a Loss\" (1700) and the history \"The Revolution in Sweden\" (1706). David Crawford's (1665–1726) plays included the Restoration comedies \"Courtship A-la-Mode\" (1700) and \"Love at First Sight\" (1704). These developed the character of the stage Scot, often a clown, but cunning and loyal. Newburgh Hamilton (1691–1761), born in Ireland of Scottish descent, produced the comedies \"The Petticoat-Ploter\" (1712) and \"The Doating Lovers\" or \"The Libertine\" (1715). He later wrote the libretto for Handel's \"Samson\" (1743), closely based on John Milton's \"Samson Agonistes\". James Thompson's plays often dealt with the contest between public duty and private feelings, included \"Sophonisba\" (1730), \"Agamemnon\" (1738) and \"Tancrid and Sigismuda\" (1745), the last of which was an international success. David Mallet's (c. 1705–65) \"Eurydice\" (1731) was accused of being a coded Jacobite play and his later work indicates opposition to the Walpole administration. The opera \"Masque of Alfred\" (1740) was a collaboration between Thompson, Mallet and composer Thomas Arne, with Thompson supplying the lyrics for his most famous work, the patriotic song \"Rule, Britannia!\"\n\nIn Scotland a troop of English players came to Edinburgh in 1715 where they performed \"Macbeth\" and a series of Restoration comedies, but they soon left, perhaps because of objections from local kirk presbyteries. By 1725 English actor Anthony Aston, a friend of Ramsay, was performing in Edinburgh, but seems to have fallen foul of the Scottish Master of the Revels, who licensed plays, companies and playhouses, and soon left. In 1727 the Kirk attacked theatres as immoral in the \"Admonition and Exhortation\". The Edinburgh Company of Players were able to perform in Dundee, Montrose, Aberdeen and regular performances at the Taylor's Hall in Edinburgh under the protection of a Royal Patent. Ramsay was instrumental in establishing them in a small theatre in Carruber's Close in Edinburgh, but the passing of the 1737 Licensing Act made their activities illegal and the theatre soon closed. A new theatre was opened at Cannongate in 1747 and operated without a licence into the 1760s.\n\n"}
{"id": "8142190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8142190", "title": "Master Hugo", "text": "Master Hugo\n\nMaster Hugo (fl. c.1130-c.1150) was a Romanesque lay and the earliest recorded professional artist in England.\n\nHis documented career at Bury St Edmunds Abbey spans from before 1136 to after 1148. He is most famous for illuminating the first volume of the Bury Bible, which \"have led to a general acknowledgement of Master Hugo as the gifted innovator of the main line of English Romanesque art\". This was made for the Abbey in about 1135, and is now in the Parker Library of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge; it is not known whether he illuminated the second volume, of which only a small fragment is known to survive, now in a private collection in the USA. He is also recorded as making bronze doors for the western entry of the Abbey church, a great bell and a carved crucifix with figures of Mary and Saint John, for the Monk's Choir (probably a rood). He has been credited with having made the ivory Cloisters Cross (or \"Bury St. Edmunds Cross\"), now at The Cloisters, New York,\n\nIt is not known where Master Hugo was born or trained. According to the Fitzwilliam Museum, \"the magnificent colour patterns of his paintings, the startlingly new Byzantine draperies and the deep-staring eyes of Moses, Aaron and the Jews suggest that he had travelled at least to southern Italy and probably also to Cyprus, Byzantium, and even the Holy Land.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55813680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55813680", "title": "Moreel Triptych", "text": "Moreel Triptych\n\nThe Moreel Triptych (or the Saint Christopher Altarpiece) is the name given to a 1484 panel painting by the Early Netherlandish painter Hans Memling (d. 1494). It was commissioned by the prominent Bruges politician, merchant and banker Willem Moreel (d. 1501) and his wife Barbara van Vlaenderberch, née van Hertsvelde (d. 1499). It was intended as their epitaph at the chapel of the St. James's Church, Bruges, an extension they paid for, to the funerary church of Willem's family, where the couple intended to be interred in an underground tomb before the altar.\n\nThe inner center panel of the triptych altarpiece show Saint Christopher holding the Christ Child, with Saint Maurus to his left and Saint Gills to his right. Willem Moreel kneels in prayer and venerating the saints in the left-hand panel with their five sons. Barbara kneels with eleven of their daughters on the right panel. The exterior panels are probably an early 16th-century addition, completed after the donor's and artist's deaths.\n\nThe triptych was installed on the altar of St. James's Church in 1484. It is in its original frames, which are each inscribed with the words \"anno Domini 1484\", or a variant containing the year, on their lower borders. The altarpiece has a strong association with the Benedictine order; three of the figures are Benedictine monks or saints. It is to dedicated to Saint Maurus and St Giles, the latter a Benedictine hermit. Today the work is located in the Groeningemuseum in Bruges.\n\nThe family of Willem Moreel are known to have lived in Bruges since the 13th century. Willem inherited land and a title lord of Oostcleyhem from his father. During his career he was twice appointed both alderman and burgomaster of the city, as well as its bailiff and later its treasurer. He was named as one of the fortieth riches men in the city in a 1490 tax list. The couple has eighteen children. Memling earlier portrayed the couple in 1482, with a pair of panel portraits now in the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium.\n\nSaint James's Church was his family's burial ground and was founded in the 12th century. It underwent a major reconstruction in the late 15th century, which Willem Moreel partly financed along with members of the prominent Portinari, Gros and Moor families. The couple intended to be buried with the church building, in a chapel they had paid for and dedicated to saints Gills and Maurus, with space left before the altar as burial space for two people. To the same end, they commissioned the triptych from Memling, then a highly prominent, prestigious and sought-after painter, to be placed on the chapel altar, and only interred in the chapel in 1504, at the request of their son John. Barbara died in 1899, he followed in 1501.\n\nThe Moreels did not at first get their wishes as to their burial places. Their standing and political security hamper by the struggles after the deaths of Charles the Bold in 1477 and Mary of Burgundy in 1482 and the struggle with Maximilian of Austria. Willem was a prominent adversary of Maximilian, and was imprisoned in October 1481 for six months. On their deaths, were each buried on exterior church grounds. They were not moved to their intended resting places in front of the chapel altar until 1504.\n\nThe inner panels share a continuous overcast skyline and broad landscape, which contains two city-scapes, cottages and a meadow with a variety of trees animals and wild strawberries, daisies, daffodils and other recognisable flowers and plants. Adding to the sense of harmony, both wing panels are identically composed, excepting the number of children. Sixteen of the couple's eighteen children are shown in total. However, some of the figures are later additions, painted over the first layers of oil and pigment.\n\nThe figures were identified in the mid 19th century by James H. Weale through their facial characteristics and extant established portraits, through the commonality of Christian names from family names to some of the saints, city records, and the examination of headstones in the Saint James graveyard.\n\nThe inner panels are in relatively good condition for late 15th-century oil paintings, but have suffered some damage and paint loss, and have been depreciated by ill-advised restorations and touch-up work.\n\nThe central figure is Saint Christopher, patron saint of travelers, who shares his feast day, July 25, with Saint James, after whom the containing church is named. He is shown standing in water as he crosses a river or inlet, carrying the Child Jesus on his shoulders. He is presented with his attributes, including a large staff, a symbol of Christ's miraculous presence, and is intended as a protector against sudden death. Christopher is dressed in a blue coat, covered with a long red cape folded over his right shoulder. He closely resembles depictions in both Jan van Eyck's \"Ghent Altarpiece\" and now lost \"Saint Christopher\", by whom Memling was deeply influenced by.\n\nOn the left is Saint Maurus who holds a crosier and looks at an open book. Saint Gills stands to the right, standing with his attributes, an arrow and a doe. Both are dressed in long black robes and are holding books.\n\nThe left interior wing shows Willem Moreel kneeling, his hands clasped in prayer, before an open prayer book. His hair is short in a bowl cut, wears a fur-lined dress and black doublet, a very fashionable outfit in the 1480s. Behind him are his five male children, also shown kneeling. Of the sons, two are known to have died in infancy. Willem was the oldest, while John and George are thought to have commissioned the outer panels after their parents' death (see below).\n\nThe Moreels are presented by Saint Wilhemus van Maleval, who stands among them, dressed a fur-lined black coat over army clothing. He places his hand on Willem's shoulder, as he guides and presents him to Christopher in the center panel.\n\nThe right interior wing presents Barbara Moreel with her eleven of her thirteen daughters, who all also kneel in prayer before an open book. Barbara wears a truncated hennin, a damask silk dress with a white collar, and a wide red belt with a golden buckle. They are presented by Saint Barbara, patron of the donor's wife, who is shown standing before the tower where she was, by legend, imprisoned, which through innovative use of perspective, she seems to hold in her hand.\nOne of the daughters, Catherine, earlier posed for Memling's 1480 \"Sibylla Sambetha\". The eldest daughter, shown directly behind Barbra, and also in a black dress, is known to have become a Dominican nun. The girl in the light brown clothing, black v-neck and transparent veil has been identified as Maria from her name written in her headband, their second born daughter, given her linear position in the painting. Genealogical research notes that the couple has two daughters named Marie; but is assumed one died in infancy and the second was named after her. Efforts to name other of the daughters have been unsuccessful.\n\nNot all of the daughters were painted by Memling; examination by the art historian Dirk De Vos identifies at least six that are later additions, layered over the original landscape. Some of these additions can be explained by daughters born after the 1484 completion date, and were probably added by members of Memling's workshop. The left-hand panel containing sons underwent similar updated.\n\nThe outer part of the wings contains grisaille representations of John the Baptist with his lamb and staff (left wing) and Saint George in full armour, slaying the dragon (right wing) with a lance. The panels may have been completed after the deaths of Willem and Barbara, and dated as c 1504 by a number of art historians, probably commissioned by two of their sons, Jan (John) and Jaris (George), as the final, successful, effort to have their parents interred within the chapel space.\n\n"}
{"id": "3304351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3304351", "title": "Narumi Kakinouchi", "text": "Narumi Kakinouchi\n\nAfter graduating from high school, she began working at Studio Beebo under the direction of Tomonori Kogawa, then moving on to Studio Io, Artland, AIC and other studios where she was an animator, designer, and animation director on many TV series and OVAs. She made her manga and character designer debut with \"Vampire Princess Miyu\". Due to her magnificent artwork, she became very popular even outside the anime and manga scene, doing illustrations and character designs for many other projects.\n\nKakinouchi made her key animation debut with her work on the 1980 series \"Space Runaway Ideon\". She then garnered great attention as the character designer, storyboard artist, and animation director for the \"Vampire Princess Miyu\" OVAs in 1988, and in March of that same year she co-authored the first \"Vampire Princess Miyu\" manga, serialized in the mystery/horror monthly manga magazine \"Susperia\".\n\nShe made her directorial debut with \"Ryokunohara Labyrinth\" in 1990, in addition to being the character designer, scenario creator, storyboard artist, and animation director for the OVA.\n\nIn 2014 she began to work as animator again and was an animation director of single episodes of \"The Pilot's Love Song\", \"Date A Live II\", \"Aldnoah.Zero\", \"Psycho-Pass 2\", \"Shirogane no Ishi Argevollen\" or \"Shinmai Maō no Testament\".\n\nKakinouchi is married to anime director Toshiki Hirano.\n\n\n\n\n\nListed alphabetically by author.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47138409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47138409", "title": "Osman Nuri Pasha (painter)", "text": "Osman Nuri Pasha (painter)\n\nOsman Nuri Pasha (c.1839 in Istanbul – 1906 in Istanbul) was a Turkish painter and military officer. While his birth date has not been established, it is on record that he received his education in Istanbul, attending the Turkish Military Academy. In 1857, he received an appointment as court painter; serving under Sultans Abdülmecid I and Abdülaziz, who gave him paintings by European artists, to serve as examples for his work.\n\nAs a court painter he was eventually promoted to Brigadier General (Tuğgeneral) and became an art teacher at Kuleli Military High School. Most of Turkey's best-known painters were among his students, including Ahmet Ziya Akbulut, Hodja Ali Rıza and Hüseyin Zekai Pasha. In 1877, during the Russo-Turkish War, he served as a military commander.\n\nAlthough he painted landscapes, most of his paintings deal with military subjects; notably battles and warships. These include his depiction of the Battle of Preveza (which was one of the first Turkish paintings to use Western-style oil techniques) and the sinking of the frigate \"Ertuğrul\", following a good-will mission to Japan.\n"}
{"id": "28245634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28245634", "title": "Overfinch", "text": "Overfinch\n\nOverfinch is a company that customises Land Rovers and Range Rovers and is based in Leeds, England. In 2005, Overfinch won the Ford \"Special Recognition for Outstanding Achievement in Design\" award for the SuperSport styling package. In November 2010, Overfinch was placed into administration, under the control of administrators Wilson Field, who claimed the business had incurred significant one-off non-trading costs which hit cash flow. Autobrokers Ltd of Leeds (who had traded for the previous four years as the Overfinch Vehicle Retailing Division under then name 'Overfinch Leeds'), acquired the business and assets. Models include the Overfinch 580 S, the 2010 Overfinch Vogue GT (based on Range Rover), Overfinch SuperSport (based on Range Rover Sport), and Holland & Holland Overfinch.\n"}
{"id": "49789916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49789916", "title": "Pawnshop (film)", "text": "Pawnshop (film)\n\nPawnshop () is a adventure and crime film directed by Liubomyr Levytskyi. The premiere took place in Ukraine on 19 September 2013.\n\nThe scene takes place in the present in the abstract city of Lemberg. The picture consists of three storylines that are cleverly intertwined. The main characters — two Lembergian guys, Mark and Yasha (Denys Nikiforov and Pavlo Piskun), know the street and know how to get everything you need for life. Mark called a noble bandit, and Yasha, on the contrary, everything is decided with the help of intelligence. Passing difficult twists and turns in his youth, the brothers begin to look for stability. It was one of those days they get the news of the inheritance. Them is known in a pawn shop and its owner at the moment is their uncle Felix. Arriving at the pawn shop for their guys receive a sharp rebuff. Mark and Yasha decide: any way to get the inheritance. Their opinions differ, and each comes up with his plan...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18800298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18800298", "title": "Photo League", "text": "Photo League\n\nThe Photo League was a cooperative of photographers in New York who banded together around a range of common social and creative causes. The League was active from 1936 to 1951 and included among its members some of the most noted American photographers of the mid-20th century.\n\nThe League’s origins traced back to a project of the Workers International Relief (WIR), which was a communist association based in Berlin. In 1930 the WIR established the Worker’s Camera League in New York City, which soon came to be known as the Film and Photo League. The goals of the Film and Photo League were to “struggle against and expose reactionary film; to produce documentary films reflecting the lives and struggles of the American workers; and to spread and popularize the great artistic and revolutionary Soviet productions.”\n\nIn 1934 the still photographers and the filmmakers in the League began having differences of opinion over social and production interests, and by 1936 they had formed separate groups. Paul Strand and Ralph Steiner established Frontier Films, to continue promoting the original goals, while at the same time Strand and Berenice Abbott renamed the original group “The Photo League”. The two organizations remained friendly, with members from one group often participating in activities of the other. The goal of the newly reformed Photo League was to “put the camera back into the hands of honest photographers who ... use it to photograph America.”\n\nThe League quickly became active in the new field of socially conscious photography. Unlike other photography organizations, it did not espouse a particular visual style but instead focused on “integrating formal elements of design and visual aesthetics with the powerful and sympathetic evidence of the human condition.” It also offered basic and advanced classes in photography when there were few such courses in colleges or trade schools. A newsletter, called \"Photo Notes\", was printed on a somewhat random schedule depending upon who was available to do the work and if they could afford the printing costs. More than anything else, though, the League was a gathering place for photographers to share and experience their common artistic and social interests.\n\nAmong its members were co-founders Sol Libsohn and Sid Grossman (director of the Photo League School); Walter Rosenblum, editor of the Photo League \"Photo Notes\"; Eliot Elisofon, a \"Life\" magazine photographer; Morris Engel (since 1936); Jerome Liebling, who joined in 1947; Aaron Siskind; Jack Manning, a member of the Harlem Document Group of the League and a \"New York Times\" photographer; Dan Weiner; Bill Witt; Martin Elkort; Lou Bernstein; Arthur Leipzig (since 1942); Sy Kattelson; Louis Stettner; Lester Talkington (from 1947); Lisette Model; and Ruth Orkin, a member from 1947.\n\nUnusual for artist groups at the time, approximately one-third of League members and participants were women and they served in visible leadership roles such as secretary, treasurer, vice president, and president. For example, Lucy Ashjian, who joined the League as early as 1936, served as \"Photos Notes\" editor and board chair of the League's school.\n\nIn the early 1940s the list of notable photographers who were active in the League or supported their activities also included Margaret Bourke-White, W. Eugene Smith, Helen Levitt, FSA photographer Arthur Rothstein, Beaumont Newhall, Nancy Newhall, Richard Avedon, Weegee, Robert Frank, Harold Feinstein, Ansel Adams, Edward Weston and Minor White. The League was the caretaker of the Lewis Hine Memorial Collection, which Hine's son had given the League in recognition of their role in fostering social activism through photography as his father had done.\n\nMost of the members who joined before the end of World War II were first-generation Americans who strongly believed in progressive political and social causes. Few were aware of the political origins of the movement of the communist \"Workers as Photographers\" (\"Arbeiterfotografen\") in Berlin. This had in fact little to do with what the organization did as it evolved, but helped its downfall after the war, when it was accused by the FBI of being communist and \"subversive and anti-American.\" \nIn 1947 the League was formally declared subversive and placed on the U.S. Department of Justice blacklist by Attorney General Tom C. Clark. At first the League fought back and mounted an impressive \"This Is the Photo League\" exhibition in 1948, but after its member and long-time FBI informer Angela Calomiris had testified in May 1949 that the League was a front organization for the Communist Party, the Photo League was finished. Recruitment dried up and old members left, including one of its founders and former president, Paul Strand, as well as Louis Stettner. The League disbanded in 1951.\n\nAfter the League’s demise, and coupled with the return of more women to domestic roles in the Post-War era, the careers of many promising women artists, such as Sonia Handelman Meyer and Rae Russel, did not continue.\n\nThe Photo League was the subject of a 2012 documentary film: \"Ordinary Miracles: The Photo League's New York\" by filmmakers Daniel Allentuck and Nina Rosenblum. The film traces the rise and demise of the Photo League between 1936 and 1951, and includes interviews with surviving members and a soundtrack including Woody Guthrie, the Andrews Sisters, and the Mills Brothers. \"Cineaste Magazine\" calls the film a \"fine addition to the library of documentaries dedicated to remembering the cultural work of the old left.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23528", "title": "Pianist", "text": "Pianist\n\nA pianist ( , ) is an individual musician who plays the piano. Since most forms of Western music can make use of the piano, pianists have a wide repertoire and a wide variery of styles to choose from, among them traditional classical music, jazz, blues, and all sorts of popular music, including rock and roll. Most pianists can, to an extent, easily play other keyboard-related instruments such as the synthesizer, harpsichord, celesta, and the organ.\n\nModern classical pianists dedicate their careers to performing, recording, teaching, researching, and learning new works to expand their repertoire. They generally do not write or transcribe music as pianists did in the 19th century. Some classical pianists might specialize in accompaniment and chamber music, while others (though comparatively few) will perform as full-time soloists.\n\nMozart could be considered the first \"concert pianist\" as he performed widely on the piano. Composers Beethoven and Clementi from the classical era were also famed for their playing, as were, from the romantic era, Liszt, Brahms, Chopin, Mendelssohn and Rachmaninoff. From that era, leading performers less known as composers were Clara Schumann and Hans von Bülow. However, as we do not have modern audio recordings of most of these pianists, we rely mainly on written commentary to give us an account of their technique and style.\n\nJazz pianists almost always perform with other musicians. Their playing is more free than that of classical pianists and they create an air of spontaneity in their performances. They generally do not write down their compositions; improvisation is a significant part of their work. Well known jazz pianists include Art Tatum, Duke Ellington, Thelonious Monk, Oscar Peterson and Bud Powell.\n\nPopular pianists might work as live performers (concert, theatre, etc.), session musicians, arrangers most likely feel at home with synthesizers and other electronic keyboard instruments. Notable popular pianists include Victor Borge who performed as a comedian; Richard Clayderman, who is known for his covers of popular tunes; and singer and entertainer Liberace, who at the height of his fame, was one of the highest paid entertainers in the world.\nA single listing of pianists in all genres would be impractical, given the multitude of musicians noted for their performances on the instrument. Below are links to lists of well-known or influential pianists divided by genres:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany important composers were also virtuoso pianists. The following is an incomplete list of such musicians.\n\n\n\n\nSome people, having received a solid piano training in their youth, decide not to continue their musical careers but choose nonmusical ones. As a result, there are prominent communities of \"amateur pianists\" all over the world that play at quite a high level and give concerts not to earn money but just for the love of music. The International Piano Competition for Outstanding Amateurs, held annually in Paris, attracts about one thousand listeners each year and is broadcast on French radio.\n\nIt is notable that Jon Nakamatsu, the Gold Medal winner of the prestigious Van Cliburn International Piano Competition for professional pianists in Fort Worth, Texas (1997) was at the moment of his victory technically an amateur: he never attended a music conservatory or majored in music, and worked as a high school German teacher at the time; it was only after the competition that he started pursuing a career as a classical pianist.\n\nThe German pianist Davide Martello is known for traveling around conflict zones to play his moving piano. Martello has previously been recognised by the European parliament for his “outstanding contribution to European cooperation and the promotion of common values”.\n\n"}
{"id": "28087785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28087785", "title": "Prison Notebooks", "text": "Prison Notebooks\n\nThe Prison Notebooks ( ) were a series of essays written by the Italian neo-Marxist Antonio Gramsci. Gramsci was imprisoned by the Italian Fascist regime in 1926. The notebooks were written between 1929 and 1935, when Gramsci was released from prison on grounds of ill-health. He died in April 1937.\n\nHe wrote more than 30 notebooks and 3,000 pages of history and analysis during his imprisonment. Although written unsystematically, the \"Prison Notebooks\" are considered a highly original contribution to 20th century political theory. Gramsci drew insights from varying sources - not only other Marxists but also thinkers such as Niccolò Machiavelli, Vilfredo Pareto, Georges Sorel and Benedetto Croce. His notebooks cover a wide range of topics, including Italian history and nationalism, the French Revolution, Fascism, Fordism, civil society, folklore, religion and high and popular culture.\n\nThe notebooks were smuggled out of prison in the 1930s. They were not published until the 1950s and were first translated into English in the 1970s, by the Scottish poet and folklorist Hamish Henderson.\n\nSome ideas in Marxist theory, critical theory and educational theory that are associated with Gramsci's name:\n\nHegemony was a concept previously used by Marxists such as Vladimir Ilyich Lenin to indicate the political leadership of the working-class in a democratic revolution, but developed by Gramsci into an acute analysis to explain why the 'inevitable' socialist revolution predicted by orthodox Marxism had not occurred by the early 20th century. Capitalism, it seemed, was even more entrenched than ever. Capitalism, Gramsci suggested, maintained control not just through violence and political and economic coercion, but also ideologically, through a hegemonic culture in which the values of the bourgeoisie became the 'common sense' values of all. Thus a consensus culture developed in which people in the working-class identified their own good with the good of the bourgeoisie, and helped to maintain the \"status quo\" rather than revolting.\n\nThe working class needed to develop a culture of its own, which would overthrow the notion that bourgeois values represented 'natural' or 'normal' values for society, and would attract the oppressed and intellectual classes to the cause of the proletariat. Lenin held that culture was 'ancillary' to political objectives but for Gramsci it was fundamental to the attainment of power that \"cultural hegemony\" be achieved first. In Gramsci's view, any class that wishes to dominate in modern conditions has to move beyond its own narrow ‘economic-corporate’ interests, to exert intellectual and moral leadership, and to make alliances and compromises with a variety of forces. Gramsci calls this union of social forces a ‘historic bloc’, taking a term from Georges Sorel. This bloc forms the basis of consent to a certain social order, which produces and re-produces the hegemony of the dominant class through a nexus of institutions, social relations and ideas. In this manner, Gramsci developed a theory that emphasized the importance of the superstructure in both maintaining and fracturing relations of the base.\n\nGramsci stated that, in the West, bourgeois cultural values were tied to religion, and therefore much of his polemic against hegemonic culture is aimed at religious norms and values. He was impressed by the power Roman Catholicism had over men's minds and the care the Church had taken to prevent an excessive gap developing between the religion of the learned and that of the less educated. Gramsci believed that it was Marxism's task to marry the purely intellectual critique of religion found in Renaissance humanism to the elements of the Reformation that had appealed to the masses. For Gramsci, Marxism could supersede religion only if it met people's spiritual needs, and to do so people would have to recognize it as an expression of their own experience.\n\nFor Gramsci, hegemonic dominance ultimately relied on coercion, and in a \"crisis of authority\" the \"masks of consent\" slip away, revealing the fist of force.\n\nGramsci gave much thought to the question of the role of intellectuals in society. Famously, he stated that all men are intellectuals, in that all have intellectual and rational faculties, but not all men have the social function of intellectuals. He claimed that modern intellectuals were not simply talkers, but directors and organisers who helped build society and produce hegemony by means of ideological apparatuses such as education and the media. Furthermore, he distinguished between a 'traditional' intelligentsia which sees itself (wrongly) as a class apart from society, and the thinking groups which every class produces from its own ranks 'organically'. Such 'organic' intellectuals do not simply describe social life in accordance with scientific rules, but rather articulate, through the language of culture, the feelings and experiences which the masses could not express for themselves. The need to create a working-class culture relates to Gramsci's call for a kind of education that could develop working-class intellectuals, who would not simply introduce Marxist ideology from outside the proletariat, but rather renovate and make critical the \"status quo\" of the already existing intellectual activity of the masses. His ideas about an education system for this purpose correspond with the notion of critical pedagogy and popular education as theorized and practised in later decades by Paulo Freire in Brazil, and have much in common with the thought of Frantz Fanon. For this reason, partisans of adult and popular education consider Gramsci an important voice to this day. (For the results of this kind of thought in education, see the latests reports of PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) on the education in Brazil).\n\nGramsci's theory of hegemony is tied to his conception of the capitalist state, which he claims rules through force plus consent. The state is not to be understood in the narrow sense of the government; instead, Gramsci divides it between 'political society', which is the arena of political institutions and legal constitutional control, and 'civil society', which is commonly seen as the 'private' or 'non-state' sphere, differentiated from both the state and the economy. The former is the realm of force and the latter of consent. He stresses, however, that the division is purely conceptual and that the two, in reality, often overlap.\n\nGramsci claims that hegemony lies under modern capitalism and that the bourgeoisie can maintain its economic control by allowing certain demands made by trade unions and mass political parties within civil society to be met by the political sphere. Thus, the bourgeoisie engages in Passive Revolution by going beyond its immediate economic interests and allowing the forms of its hegemony to change. Gramsci posits that movements such as reformism and fascism, as well as the 'scientific management' and assembly line methods of Frederick Taylor and Henry Ford respectively, are examples of this.\n\nDrawing from Machiavelli, he argues that 'The Modern Prince' – the revolutionary party – is the force that will allow the working-class to develop organic intellectuals and an alternative hegemony within civil society. For Gramsci, the complex nature of modern civil society means that the only tactic capable of undermining bourgeois hegemony and leading to socialism is a 'war of position' (analogous to trench warfare); this war of position would then give way to a 'war of movement' (or frontal attack). Gramsci saw 'war of movement' as being exemplified by the storming of the Winter Palace during the Russian Revolution.\n\nDespite his claim that the lines between the two may be blurred, Gramsci rejects the state-worship that results from identifying political society with civil society, as was done by the Jacobins and Fascists. He believes the proletariat's historical task is to create a 'regulated society' and defines the 'withering away of the state' as the full development of civil society's ability to regulate itself.\n\nGramsci, like the early Marx, was an emphatic proponent of historicism. In Gramsci's view, all meaning derives from the relation between human practical activity (or \"praxis\") and the \"objective\" historical and social processes of which it is a part. Ideas cannot be understood outside their social and historical context, apart from their function and origin. The concepts by which we organise our knowledge of the world do not derive primarily from our relation to things, but rather from the social relations between the users of those concepts. As a result, there is no such thing as an unchanging \"human nature\", but only an idea of such which varies historically. Furthermore, philosophy and science do not \"reflect\" a reality independent of man, but rather are only \"true\" in that they express the real developmental trend of a given historical situation.\n\nFor the majority of Marxists, truth was truth no matter when and where it is known, and scientific knowledge (which included Marxism) accumulated historically as the advance of truth in this everyday sense. On this view, Marxism could not be said to not belong to the illusory realm of the superstructure because it is a science. In contrast, Gramsci believed Marxism was \"true\" in the socially pragmatic sense, in that by articulating the class consciousness of the proletariat, it expressed the \"truth\" of its times better than any other theory. This anti-scientistic and anti-positivist stance was indebted to the influence of Benedetto Croce. However, it should be underlined that Gramsci's was an \"absolute historicism\" that broke with the Hegelian and idealist tenor of Croce's thinking and its tendency to secure a metaphysical synthesis in historical \"destiny\". Though Gramsci repudiates the charge, his historical account of truth has been criticised as a form of relativism.\n\nIn a famous pre-prison article entitled \"The Revolution against \"Das Kapital\"\", Gramsci claimed that the October Revolution in Russia had invalidated the idea that socialist revolution had to await the full development of capitalist forces of production. This reflected his view that Marxism was not a determinist philosophy. The principle of the causal \"primacy\" of the forces of production, he held, was a misconception of Marxism. Both economic changes and cultural changes are expressions of a \"basic historical process\", and it is difficult to say which sphere has primacy over the other. The fatalistic belief, widespread within the workers’ movement in its earliest years, that it would inevitably triumph due to \"historical laws\", was, in Gramsci's view, a product of the historical circumstances of an oppressed class restricted mainly to defensive action, and was to be abandoned as a hindrance once the working-class became able to take the initiative. Because Marxism is a \"philosophy of praxis\", it cannot rely on unseen \"historical laws\" as the agents of social change. History is defined by human praxis and therefore includes human will. Nonetheless, will-power cannot achieve anything it likes in any given situation: when the consciousness of the working-class reaches the stage of development necessary for action, historical circumstances will be encountered which cannot be arbitrarily altered. It is not, however, predetermined by historical inevitability as to which of several possible developments will take place as a result.\n\nHis critique of economism also extended to that practised by the syndicalists of the Italian trade unions. He believed that many trade unionists had settled for a reformist, gradualist approach in that they had refused to struggle on the political front in addition to the economic front. While Gramsci envisioned the trade unions as one organ of a counter-hegemonic force in capitalist society, the trade union leaders simply saw these organizations as a means to improve conditions within the existing structure. Gramsci referred to the views of these trade unionists as \"vulgar economism\", which he equated to covert reformism and even liberalism.\n\nBy virtue of his belief that human history and collective praxis determine whether any philosophical question is meaningful or not, Gramsci's views run contrary to the metaphysical materialism and 'copy' theory of perception advanced by Engels and Lenin, though he does not explicitly state this. For Gramsci, Marxism does not deal with a reality that exists in and for itself, independent of humanity. The concept of an objective universe outside of human history and human praxis was, in his view, analogous to belief in God; there could be no objectivity, but only a universal intersubjectivity to be established in a future communist society. Natural history was thus only meaningful in relation to human history. On his view philosophical materialism, like primitive common sense, resulted from a lack of critical thought, and could not, as Lenin claimed, be said to oppose religious superstition. Despite this, Gramsci resigned himself to the existence of this arguably cruder form of Marxism: the proletariat's status as a dependent class meant that Marxism, as its philosophy, could often only be expressed in the form of popular superstition and common sense. Nonetheless, it was necessary to effectively challenge the ideologies of the educated classes, and to do so Marxists must present their philosophy in a more sophisticated guise, and attempt to genuinely understand their opponents’ views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23069", "title": "Punch (magazine)", "text": "Punch (magazine)\n\nPunch; or, The London Charivari was a British weekly magazine of humour and satire established in 1841 by Henry Mayhew and engraver Ebenezer Landells. Historically, it was most influential in the 1840s and 1850s, when it helped to coin the term \"cartoon\" in its modern sense as a humorous illustration. \nAfter the 1940s, when its circulation peaked, it went into a long decline, closing in 1992. It was revived in 1996, but closed again in 2002.\n\n\"Punch\" was founded on 17 July 1841 by Henry Mayhew and engraver Ebenezer Landells, on an initial investment of £25. It was jointly edited by Mayhew and Mark Lemon. It was subtitled \"The London Charivari\" in homage to Charles Philipon's French satirical humour magazine \"Le Charivari\". Reflecting their satiric and humorous intent, the two editors took for their name and masthead the anarchic glove puppet, Mr. Punch, of Punch and Judy; the name also referred to a joke made early on about one of the magazine's first editors, Lemon, that \"punch is nothing without lemon\". Mayhew ceased to be joint editor in 1842 and became \"suggestor in chief\" until he severed his connection in 1845. The magazine initially struggled for readers, except for an 1842 \"Almanack\" issue which shocked its creators by selling 90,000 copies. In December 1842 due to financial difficulties the magazine was sold to Bradbury and Evans, both printers and publishers. Bradbury and Evans capitalised on newly evolving mass printing technologies and also were the publishers for Charles Dickens and William Makepeace Thackeray.\n\nThe term \"cartoon\" to refer to comic drawings was first used in \"Punch\" in 1843, when the Houses of Parliament were to be decorated with murals, and \"cartoons\" for the mural were displayed for the public; the term \"cartoon\" then meant a finished preliminary sketch on a large piece of cardboard, or in Italian. \"Punch\" humorously appropriated the term to refer to its political cartoons, and the popularity of the \"Punch\" cartoons led to the term's widespread use.\n\nThe illustrator Archibald Henning designed the cover of the magazine's first issues. The cover design varied in the early years, though Richard Doyle designed what became the magazine's masthead in 1849. Artists who published in \"Punch\" during the 1840s and 50s included John Leech, Richard Doyle, John Tenniel and Charles Keene. This group became known as \"The \"Punch\" Brotherhood\", which also included Charles Dickens who joined Bradbury and Evans after leaving Chapman and Hall in 1843. \"Punch\" authors and artists also contributed to another Bradbury and Evans literary magazine called \"Once A Week\" (est.1859), created in response to Dickens' departure from \"Household Words\".\n\nIn the 1860s and 1870s, conservative \"Punch\" faced competition from upstart liberal journal \"Fun\", but after about 1874, \"Fun\"&apos;s fortunes faded. At Evans's café in London, the two journals had \"Round tables\" in competition with each other.\nAfter months of financial difficulty and lack of market success, \"Punch\" became a staple for British drawing rooms because of its sophisticated humour and absence of offensive material, especially when viewed against the satirical press of the time. \"The Times\" and the Sunday paper \"News of the World\" used small pieces from \"Punch\" as column fillers, giving the magazine free publicity and indirectly granting a degree of respectability, a privilege not enjoyed by any other comic publication. \"Punch\" would share a friendly relationship with not only \"The Times\" but journals aimed at intellectual audiences such as the \"Westminster Review\", which published a fifty-three page illustrated article on \"Punch's\" first two volumes. Historian Richard Altick writes that \"To judge from the number of references to it in the private letters and memoirs of the 1840s...\"Punch\" had become a household word within a year or two of its founding, beginning in the middle class and soon reaching the pinnacle of society, royalty itself\".\n\nIncreasing in readership and popularity throughout the remainder of the 1840s and 1850s, \"Punch\" was the success story of a threepenny weekly paper that had become one of the most talked-about and enjoyed periodicals. \"Punch\" enjoyed an audience including Elizabeth Barrett, Robert Browning, Thomas Carlyle, Edward FitzGerald, Charlotte Brontë, Queen Victoria, Prince Albert, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emily Dickinson, Herman Melville, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and James Russell Lowell. \"Punch\" gave several phrases to the English language, including The Crystal Palace, and the \"Curate's egg\" (first seen in an 1895 cartoon by George du Maurier). Several British humour classics were first serialised in \"Punch\", such as the \"Diary of a Nobody\" and \"1066 and All That\". Towards the end of the nineteenth century, the artistic roster included Harry Furniss, Linley Sambourne, Francis Carruthers Gould, and Phil May. Among the outstanding cartoonists of the following century were Bernard Partridge, H. M. Bateman, Bernard Hollowood who also edited the magazine from 1957 to 1968, Kenneth Mahood and Norman Thelwell.\n\nCirculation broke the 100,000 mark around 1910, and peaked in 1947–1948 at 175,000 to 184,000. Sales declined steadily thereafter; ultimately, the magazine was forced to close in 2002 after 161 years of publication.\n\n\"Punch\" was widely emulated worldwide and was popular in the colonies. The colonial experience, especially in India, influenced Punch and its iconography. Tenniel's \"Punch\" cartoons of the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny led to a surge in the magazine's popularity. Colonial India was frequently caricatured in \"Punch\" and was an important source of knowledge of India for British readers.\n\n\"Punch\" material was collected in book formats from the late nineteenth century, which included \"Pick of the Punch\" annuals with cartoons and text features, \"Punch and the War\" (a 1941 collection of WWII-related cartoons), and \"A Big Bowl of Punch\" – which was republished a number of times. Many Punch cartoonists of the late 20th century published collections of their own, partly based on \"Punch\" contributions.\n\n\"Punch\" magazine ceased publishing in 1992.\n\nIn early 1996, the Egyptian businessman Mohamed Al-Fayed bought the rights to the name, and \"Punch\" was re-launched later that year. It was reported that the magazine was intended to be a spoiler aimed at \"Private Eye\", which had published many items critical of Fayed. The magazine never became profitable in its new incarnation, and at the end of May 2002 it was announced that \"Punch\" would once more cease publication. Press reports quoted a loss of £16 million over the six years of publication, with only 6,000 subscribers at the end.\n\nWhereas the earlier version of \"Punch\" prominently featured the clownish character Punchinello (Punch of Punch and Judy) performing antics on front covers, the resurrected \"Punch\" magazine did not use this character, but featured on its weekly covers a photograph of a boxing glove, thus informing its readers that the new magazine intended its name to mean \"punch\" in the sense of a punch in the eye.\n\nIn 2004, much of the archive was acquired by the British Library, including the famous \"Punch\" table. The long oval Victorian table was used for staff meetings and other occasions, and was brought into the offices sometime around 1855. The wooden surface is scarred with the carved initials of the magazine's longtime writers, artists and editors, as well as six invited \"strangers\" including James Thurber and Prince Charles. Mark Twain declined the invitation, saying that the already-carved initials of William Makepeace Thackeray included his own.\n\n\n\"Punch\" was influential in British colonies around the world, and in countries including Turkey, India, Japan, and China, with \"Punch\" imitators appearing in Cairo, Yokohama, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Shanghai.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29132913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29132913", "title": "Reel Power: Hollywood Cinema and American Supremacy", "text": "Reel Power: Hollywood Cinema and American Supremacy\n\nReel Power: Hollywood Cinema and American Supremacy is a 2010 Pluto Press book by Matthew Alford, which argues that even many of the most politically critical films, such as \"Hotel Rwanda\", \"Thirteen Days\" and \"Three Kings\", provide favourable mythology for the United States' government. Alford draws attention to the power of corporate moguls and the role of the government in the production of various films, such as \"Black Hawk Down\", \"Terminator Salvation\", and \"Transformers\". The foreword is written by Michael Parenti. A French translation emerged in August 2018, with a new preface.\n\nIn the British \"Morning Star\", James Walsh commented that the book \"is an engaging look at the innards of the dream factory process\" and that although the revelations of film-maker collusion with the Pentagon are not surprising \"the details are fascinating\" especially in relation to \"films traditionally considered nuanced or critical of US foreign policy\".\n\n\"The Journal of Popular Culture\" called it \"One part cultural studies analysis, and another part expose\", adding that it \"offers a salient critique for those who are concerned about the long term implications of the power of film to act as site of ideological instruction\". Contemporary Sociology called it \"an attractive and up-to-date set of tools for the critical literacy that should be mandatory in today’s media-saturated environments\". Simon Kinnear from \"Total Film\" gave \"Reel Power\" four stars out of five and called it a \"laudable study\" and \"an eye opening expose\". \"Alford's occasionally guilty of straw-clutching\", he said, \"but you'll watch the next gung-ho blockbuster a little closer\". In \"Lobster Magazine\", Robin Ramsay observes that \"If Alford isn’t quite describing the corporations and the state running joint psy-ops, it will do until joint psy-ops come along\". Ramsay reviews the book as \"competently done, decently written and, if you’ve seen a lot of American movies – and I have – it is interesting to have the ideological content articulated. I could do it myself, and I’m sort of subliminally aware of it; but most of the time I’m just watching the movie. So the author’s considerable efforts are both useful and entertaining\"\n\nRoy Stafford, former editor of \"In the Picture\" magazine, says that \"Reel Power\" is a \"solid introduction\" to Hollywood and American politics but one which is a journalistic popularisation of Alford's more overtly academic work and as such, he implies unfortunately, \"renders much that Film Studies has tried to do over the last fifty years... as effectively wasted effort.\"\n\nIn \"The Scotsman\", Hannah McGill, artistic director of the Edinburgh International Film Festival opined that \"Reel Power\" \"has its valid points to make [and] is at its best when it identifies and analyses cases of direct influence being brought to bear on film production by the US political establishment [...] its stonewalling of more contentious projects [...] or individuals in positions of constant influence\" but that \"I felt, on frequent occasion, as if I was in the company of the character Jane Horrocks played in Mike Leigh's Life is Sweet: the moodily self-righteous teen who hurled the word \"FASCIST!\" at anyone who failed to mirror her every conviction and desire\" \n\nA 2017 book, \"National Security Cinema: The Shocking New Evidence of Government Control in Hollywood\", by Matthew Alford and archivist Tom Secker, updates some of the case studies and uses the Freedom of Information Act to establish more specifically how certain films and TV shows have been affected by The Pentagon and CIA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15740717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740717", "title": "S Curve (art)", "text": "S Curve (art)\n\nThe S Curve is a traditional art concept in Ancient Greek sculpture and Roman sculpture where the figure's body and posture is depicted like a sinuous or serpentine \"S\". It is related to and is an extension of the art term of contrapposto which is when a figure is depicted slouching or placing one's weight and thus center of gravity to one side. However, the S Curve involves more of the body than the contrapposto, and is therefore considered to be a more advanced technical development.\nThe \"S Curve\" concept was initiated by famous Greek sculptor Praxiteles, son of Kifissodotos.\n"}
{"id": "16035737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16035737", "title": "Society for Art History in Switzerland", "text": "Society for Art History in Switzerland\n\nThe Society for Art History in Switzerland (, , ) is a Swiss learned society dedicated to promoting the understanding of Swiss art history and particularly of Swiss topography of art, including the study and maintenance of Swiss cultural heritage sites.\n\nThe society founded in 1880 publishes a wide range of monographies, guides and inventories. These include the series \"Art monuments of Switzerland\" (, ), which includes more than hundred volumes, the first of which was published in 1927. It also publishes the quarterly journal \"Kunst und Architektur in der Schweiz\".\n\nThe \"«Gesellschaft für schweizerische Kunstgeschichte GSK»\" (Society for the history of art in Switzerland SHAS), named thus since 1934, was founded in June 1880 in Zofingen under the name of the \"«Vaterländische Gesellschaft für Erhaltung historischer Denkmäler»\" (Patriotic Society for the preservation of historic monuments). Its creation was due to important personalities, members of the Schweizerischer Kunstverein (Swiss society of fine arts), and its first president was the Genevan painter, Theodore de Saussure, grandson of the celebrated naturalist Horace-Bénédict de Saussure. The vice-presidency was held by the Zurich art historian Johann Rudolf Rahn. The «Patriotic society for the preservation of historic monuments» had as its aim to preserve and restore architectural monuments, but also to save scattered works of art by bringing them together in museums, to arouse a better understanding for the «fine arts» and to support artists, painters and sculptors. In the statutes adopted at the meeting of this committee on 20 June 1880, the name of the society was altered to «Verein für Erhaltung vaterländischer Kunstdenkmäler» (Association for the preservation of artistic monuments of the fatherland). The regulations stipulated that the sums received must be divided and entered in the accounts in two equal shares to be used, on the one hand, to finance publications and, on the other hand, to buy works of art and old objects of value. This second part of the fund was also allocated for the restoration of historic monuments that were at risk of being destroyed or falling into ruin.\n\nThe association changed its name once more at the general meeting in Lausanne in 1881 to become the \"«Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Erhaltung historischer Kunstdenkmäler»\" (Swiss society for the preservation of historic art monuments). It then dealt mainly with buying items and buildings of national importance, without neglecting its publications. A brief treatise on the reliquary cross of Engelberg (end of the 12th or beginning of the 13th century) appeared in 1881 from the pen of the art historian Johann Rudolf Rahn. The same author wrote a description of the stained glass window dating from 1530 in the Reformed Church of St Saphorin (Vaud), then an article on the Casa Borrani (or Serodine) in Ascona with its baroque façade.\n\nAt the general meeting in 1882, a request was made to set up an inventory of buildings requiring preservation or restoration works and of objets d'art which were at risk of being destroyed or sold.\n\nIn March 1884, the Federal Department of the Interior responded to a motion on the subject of the creation of a Swiss National Museum and entrusted the «Society for the preservation of historical art monuments» with the acquisition of a certain number of objects of its choice, but the ownership of which would revert to the Confederation. In the implementing ordinance of 25 February 1887, a Federal Commission for the Preservation of Antiquities of Switzerland was created and its competences and duties were passed to the committee of the «Society for the preservation of historical art monuments». In the same year, the statutes of the latter were adapted to its new function.\n\nIn 1891, the Federal Council (Swiss Government) founded the Swiss National Museum with its head office in Zurich and the purchase of antiquities then no longer came within the competence of the «Society for the preservation of historical art monuments». This decision was confirmed on 12 March 1892. The Society continued its inventory, preservation and restoration work on historic works of art, and excavations. In 1896, Karl Stehlin, then President of the Society (1895–1898) who had succeeded Julius Kunkler (1888–1895), was called on to take charge of a new subsidiary research commission relating to the Roman period. Josef Zemp (1898–1904 and 1915–1916) and Albert Naef, who took over the presidency from Zemp between 1904 and 1915, pleaded for equality of treatment of the different old styles, rejecting any organisation of the periods into a hierarchy. They attached great importance to as complete a job of preservation as possible of the authentic work and a distinction between what was original and what was reconstructed, in order to avoid any pastiche. Starting from 1899, the «Anzeiger für schweizerische Altertumskunde» (Directory of Swiss Antiquities), published by the Swiss National Museum, served as the official organ of the «Society for the preservation of historical art monuments», complemented from 1901 on by the publication of the Communications in two editions, German and French. The first issue of this series was devoted to the stained-glass windows of the chancel of the church in Oberkirch near Frauenfeld and the Weinmarkt (wine market) fountain in Lucerne, with texts by Johann Rudolf Rahn and Josef Zemp. The state archivist Robert Durrer edited the statistics of the monuments of Obwalden and Nidwalden, published in a supplement to the «Anzeiger für schweizerische Altertumskunde» and reprinted in 1971.\n\nAt the same time, in 1900 Paul Ganz suggested the establishment of a directory with photographs of old stained-glass windows in Switzerland, as well as working drawings and designs of stained-glass windows. Appointed director of the Art Museum in Basle, he succeeded in building up a small collection by 1902 which became the starting point of the «Archiv für schweizerische Kunstgeschichte» (Archives of the history of art in Switzerland). At the same time, Johann Rudolf Rahn began to draw up an inventory of Switzerland’s art and history monuments.\n\nIn 1915, the Department of the Interior created a Federal Commission of Historic Monuments and the Society’s activity in the field of the preservation of monuments thus had to come to an end. Funds of 2000 francs – later 3000 – for «small restoration works» were, however, granted to the Society as consolation. These funds were paid until 1960. Having thus been successively relieved of two essential tasks, that is the acquisition or works of art and the preservation of monuments, the Society devoted itself from then on more intensely to the publication of works.\n\nIn 1920, under the presidency of the Genevan architect Camille Martin (1916–1922), the scholarly inventory of Switzerland’s art and history monuments was able to commence: Samuel Guyer undertook the architectural inventory of the canton of Zurich, Linus Birchler that of the cantons of Schwyz and Uri. The Society’s committee submitted a request for grants to the federal authorities and drew up rules in 1924 to determine the organisation of these far-reaching works. In 1925, in agreement with the Department of the Interior and various scholarly associations, the Society undertook the publication of the national inventory of the \"Monuments of art and history of Switzerland\" in close collaboration with the cantons. The first volume, devoted to three districts of the canton of Schwyz, that is Einsiedeln, March and Höfe, appeared in 1927. It was the work of the architectural historian Linus Birchler, the first president of the Federal Commission of Historic Monuments.\n\nSince then, more than 120 volumes of this collection have been published. They were complemented between 1982 and 2004 by the \"«Inventar der neueren Schweizer Architektur, 1850-1920 INSA»\" (Swiss inventory of architecture), a collection of eleven volumes. The «Society for the history of art in Switzerland» also publishes the \"«Schweizerischer Kunstführer»\" (Guides to Swiss monuments), a series launched in 1935 by Paul Ganz, of regional or cantonal guides, special issues touching on specific subjects linked to the history of art and architecture, as well as its quarterly revue \"«Kunst+Architektur in der Schweiz»\" (Art+Architecture in Switzerland).\n\n"}
{"id": "19667315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19667315", "title": "Tendril perversion", "text": "Tendril perversion\n\nTendril perversion, often referred to in context as simply perversion, is a geometric phenomenon found in helical structures such as plant tendrils, in which a helical structure forms that is divided into two sections of opposite chirality, with a transition between the two in the middle. A similar phenomenon can often be observed in kinked helical cables such as telephone handset cords. \n\nThe phenomenon was known to Charles Darwin, who wrote in 1865,\n\nThe term \"tendril perversion\" was coined by Goriely and Tabor in 1998 based on the word \"perversion\" found in the 19th Century science literature. \"Perversion\" is a transition from one chirality to another and was known to James Clerk Maxwell, who attributed it to the topologist J. B. Listing. \n\nTendril perversion can be viewed as an example of spontaneous symmetry breaking, in which the strained structure of the tendril adopts a configuration of minimum energy while preserving zero overall twist. \n\nTendril perversion has been studied both experimentally and theoretically. Gerbode et al. have made experimental studies of the coiling of cucumber tendrils. A detailed study of a simple model of the physics of tendril perversion was made by MacMillen and Goriely in the early 2000s. Liu et al. showed in 2014 that \"the transition from a helical to a hemihelical shape, as well as the number of perversions, depends on the height to width ratio of the strip's cross-section.\"\n\nGeneralized tendril perversions were put forward by Silva et al., to include perversions that can be intrinsically produced in elastic filaments, leading to a multiplicity of geometries and dynamical properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16034024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16034024", "title": "Termeh", "text": "Termeh\n\nTermeh () is a type of Iranian handwoven cloth, produced primarily in the Yazd province. Weaving termeh requires a good wool with long fibers. Termeh is woven by an expert with the assistance of a worker called a \"Goushvareh-kesh\". Weaving termeh is a sensitive, careful, and time-consuming process; a good weaver can produce only in a day. The background colors used in termeh are jujube red, light red, green, orange and black. Termeh has been admired throughout history; Greek historians commented on the beauty of Persian weavings in the Achaemenian (532 B.C.), Ashkani (222 B.C.) and Sasanidae (226–641 A.D.) periods and the Chinese tourist Hoang Tesang admired termeh.\n\nDuring the Safavid period (1502–1736 A.D.), zarbaf and termeh weaving techniques were significantly refined. Due to the difficulty of producing termeh and the advent of mechanized weaving, few factories remain in Iran that produce traditionally woven Termeh.\n"}
{"id": "5269119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5269119", "title": "The French Connection (book)", "text": "The French Connection (book)\n\nThe French Connection: A True Account of Cops, Narcotics, and International Conspiracy is a non-fiction book by Robin Moore first published in 1969 about the notorious \"French Connection\" drug trafficking scheme. It is followed by the book \"The Setup\". The book was adapted to film in 1971 as \"The French Connection\", written by Ernest Tidyman and directed by William Friedkin.\n\nThe story follows the exhausting investigation of New York City detectives Eddie Egan and Sonny Grosso as they attempt to uncover the participants of a major drug ring. Acting on a hunch, the detectives begin surveillance on Pasquale \"Patsy\" Fuca, who was observed in a nightclub consorting with known criminals. It soon becomes apparent that Fuca is involved in a large drug trafficking operation, including two Frenchmen: Jean Jehan, the main person responsible for importing the heroin shipment to the United States, and Jacques Angelvin, a television personality.\n\n"}
{"id": "32997809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32997809", "title": "The Guitar Player (Vermeer)", "text": "The Guitar Player (Vermeer)\n\nThe Guitar Player is a circa 1672 painting by Jan Vermeer, on display in Kenwood House, London as part of the Iveagh Bequest. In 2012 Kenwood closed for renovations until autumn 2013, and the painting was on display in the National Gallery for this period, next to their own two Vermeers. It was returned to Kenwood House in late December.\nOn February 23, 1974, the painting was stolen from Kenwood House and held for a ransom of over $1 million (US) in food to be distributed on the Caribbean island of Grenada, or else the painting would be destroyed by those who had stolen it. Later, a small strip of the painting was sent to \"The Times\" of London along with a demand that the Irish Republican sisters Marian and Dolours Price be allowed to serve their prison sentences near their homes in Northern Ireland. It was recovered by Scotland Yard in the cemetery of St Bartholomew-the-Great, in London's financial district, on May 7, 1974. Although the painting showed signs of dampness, it was otherwise undamaged.\n\nA period copy, \"A Lady Playing the Guitar\", is in the collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n"}
{"id": "15293238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293238", "title": "Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique", "text": "Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique\n\nThe Théâtre de l’Ambigu-Comique (, literally, Theatre of the Comic-Ambiguity), a former Parisian theatre, was founded in 1769 on the boulevard du Temple immediately adjacent to the Théâtre de Nicolet. It was rebuilt in 1770 and 1786, but in 1827 was destroyed by fire. A new, larger theatre with a capacity of 2,000 as compared to the earlier 1,250 was built nearby on the boulevard Saint-Martin at its intersection with the rue de Bondy and opened the following year. The theatre was eventually demolished in 1966.\n\nIt was founded in 1769 on the boulevard du Temple, originally known as the Promenades des Ramparts, in Paris by Nicolas-Médard Audinot, formerly a comedian of the Opéra-Comique, which he had left to become a puppet-master at the Paris fairs. Audinot had already been a success in one of the sites of the Saint-Germain Fair, where his large marionettes (called \"bamboches\") were in vogue.\n\nUnder the name of his foundation, the \"Comédiens de bois\", the Opéra-Comique proposed pantomimes and \"féeries\" (spectacles), then he enlarged his repertoire to include marionettes, child-performers, and acrobats, in comedies, vaudeville shows, \"opéras comiques\", dramas and pantomimes.\n\nThe variety and mix of these theatrical modes justified and explained changing the theatre's name, after only one year, from \"Comédiens de bois\" to \"Ambigu-Comique\" when Audinot substituted child-performers for marionettes. Audinot also used wooden puppets to spitefully reenact his former colleagues from the Comédie Italienne. Audinot saved the profits he made from shows and constructed a permanent theatre building on the Boulevard du Temple, which officially opened on July 9, 1769. The following April, Audinot added to his puppets with a few young children, who he trained up in the theatrical arts, and painted the motto \"Sicut infantes audi nos\" on the theatre's curtain. His success caused Delille to write \"Dear Audinot, childhood attired as old age\".\n\nThe architectural success of the theatre was mostly due to the ambitious and inventive set designer, Louis Daguerre. Daguerre, who is also credited with developing early photography and diorama theatre (1822), was an expert in scenic and lighting design and created picturesque effects within the theatre.\n\nA Conseil decision of 1771 (demanded by the Opéra) banned singing, dancing, and having more than four musicians aroused such emotion that it was revoked only a few days later, and Audinot took full advantage of the situation. Judging, in 1772, that the time was right to extend the building, he gave up puppetry altogether, replacing them entirely with child-performers. Not entirely released from the ties which had brought about his rise in the large theatres, from 1780 he had to pay the Opéra a fee for representation and to engage him but not use him, in producing ballets and lyric pieces borrowed for that scene, whose shows had at least ten years of publicity. The Comédie-Française and the Comédie-Italienne stipulated, for their part, that dialogue pieces in the repertoire would be submitted to them before being played, so they could edit and change them to their own advantage.\n\nDespite these problems and burdens, the Ambigu was able to rebuild and enlarge its theatre in 1786. Audinot sustained the fashion for \"pantomimes historiques and \"pantomimes romanesques\" such as \"Belle au bois dormant\", \"Masque de fer\", \"Forêt-Noire\", and \"Capitaine Cook\". The Ambigu's success was equally down to the \"comédies graveleuses\" written by its official writers Plainchesne and Moline. Bachaumont even noted in 1771 that Audinot's theatre was better attended than the Opéra.\n\nBeing located on the Boulevard du Temple amongst several other successful theaters created a healthy competition and a spark that the Ambigu used to strive to achieve greatness. Some of the theaters along the Boulevard included Theatre de Nicolet, Theatre des Associes, Theatre des Delassement-Comiques, and many others. The Comedie Francais, which was established back in 1680 and was certainly well-known throughout Europe, coexisted with the Ambigu and, therefore, they competed each other for an audience. However, l’Ambigu’s biggest rival was Théâtre Feydeau. The Feydeau was closed by the government due to the social “turbulence” it invoked, and on February 3, 1795 Théâtre de l’Ambigu showed a production of \"Le Concert de la rue Feydeau.\" This production was a satirical piece and a supposedly “lighthearted attack” against The Feydeau which was taken the wrong way to many viewers and caused “angry crowds to surround the Ambigu for two evenings until the Committee of Public Saftety demanded that the play be withdrawn in the interests of public tranquility” (Carlson.)\n\nThe proclamation of the freedom of the theatres in 1791 gave rise to a large number of rivals to the Ambigu, which was forced to close in 1799. In 1801, Audinot inaugurated a melodrama with Guilbert de Pixérécourt, Caigniez and Victor Ducange. In addition to the big name of Pixerecourt, actor Frederick Lemaitre played “Robert Macaire,” a classic villain in many French plays, in 1823 with outstanding success. After Audinot stepped down as the director, one of the company’s actors named Picardeaux took over, followed by Andre Coffin-Rosny, then Hector Chaussier, and another actor, Cammaile Saint-Aubin. The Ambigu's building burned down on 13 July 1827.\nThe theatre was rebuilt to plans by the architects Jacques Ignace Hittorff and Jean-François-Joseph Lecointe on the boulevard Saint-Martin, at the corner of rue de Bondy (now rue René-Boulanger). The 19th century saw the Ambigu's success augmented, so much so that its grand spectacles, dramas, melodramas, \"pièces de boulevard\" and vaudeville shows remain the most faithful representation of the dramatic traditions of what is called \"the boulevard of crime\" (\"le boulevard du crime\").\n\nProductions of adapted novels were successful such as Émile Zola’s \"L’Assommoir\" in 1879 and \"Nana\" in 1881.\n\nIn the 1920s, the building was briefly turned into a cinema. In 1954, the comedian Christian Casadesus reopened the Théâtre de l'Ambigu, and plays were staged there once again, by contemporary authors such as François Billetdoux and Roger Vitrac. In 1966, despite several demonstrations and a spectacular parade by the whole theatrical profession, the theatre was closed for good and demolished. The department of André Malraux, minister of culture, promised that the auditorium, then the whole building, would be preserved, when demolition works had already begun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11079974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11079974", "title": "Tints and shades", "text": "Tints and shades\n\nIn color theory, a tint is a mixture of a color with white, which reduces darkness, while a shade is a mixture with black, which increases darkness. A tone is produced either by mixing a color with grey, or by both tinting and shading. Mixing a color with any neutral color (including black, gray and white) reduces the chroma, or colorfulness, while the hue remains unchanged.\n\nIn common language, the term \"shade\" can be generalized to furthermore encompass any varieties of a particular color, whether technically they are shades, tints, tones, or slightly different hues. Meanwhile, the term \"tint\" can be generalized to refer to any lighter or darker variation of a color (e.g. tinted windows).\n\nWhen mixing colored light (additive color models), the achromatic mixture of spectrally balanced red, green, and blue (RGB) is always white, not gray or black. When we mix colorants, such as the pigments in paint mixtures, a color is produced which is always darker and lower in chroma, or saturation, than the parent colors. This moves the mixed color toward a neutral color—a gray or near-black. Lights are made brighter or dimmer by adjusting their brightness, or energy level; in painting, lightness is adjusted through mixture with white, black or a color's complement.\n\nIt is common among some artistic painters to darken a paint color by adding black paint—producing colors called \"shades\"—or to lighten a color by adding white—producing colors called \"tints\". However, this is not always the best way for representational painting, since an unfortunate result is for colors to also shift in their hues. For instance, darkening a color by adding black can cause colors such as yellows, reds and oranges, to shift toward the greenish or bluish part of the spectrum. Lightening a color by adding white can cause a shift towards blue when mixed with reds and oranges.\n\nAnother practice when darkening a color is to use its opposite, or complementary, color (e.g. violet-purple added to yellowish-green) in order to neutralize it without a shift in hue, and darken it if the additive color is darker than the parent color. When lightening a color this hue shift can be corrected with the addition of a small amount of an adjacent color to bring the hue of the mixture back in line with the parent color (e.g. adding a small amount of orange to a mixture of red and white will correct the tendency of this mixture to shift slightly towards the blue end of the spectrum).\n\n"}
{"id": "27759612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27759612", "title": "Umbra (company)", "text": "Umbra (company)\n\nUmbra is a home accessories design and manufacturing company. The company has headquarters in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and satellite offices in the Netherlands, Brazil, the United States, and China. The firm sells more than 2,000 home products through over 25,000 retailers in 120 countries.\n\nThe firm was founded in 1978 by childhood friends Les Mandelbaum and Paul Rowan. The firm opened its first store in Toronto's Queen West District in 2007. It has retail stores in the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, China, Israel, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Mexico, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Singapore, and the Umbra and Umbra Shift e-commerce websites. Umbra products are also sold through other retailers.\n\nUmbra has an in-house design team headed by Matt Carr, consisting of over 30 designers in Canada and abroad. Many independent designers have also collaborated with the firm. Notable ones who have made significant contributions to Umbra include Karim Rashid, Hlynur Atlason, and Harry Allen.\n\nIn 1996, Umbra teamed up with Rashid to create what would become one of the company’s most well-known products; the GARBO trash can. The wastebasket was named after actress Greta Garbo, mimicking the shape of her body. It sold more than two million units within the first two years of production and continues to sell today in a miniature version, GARBINO. It was donated to the Brooklyn Museum in 1999 and added into the permanent collection at the Museum of Modern Art in 2000. In 1997, it earned the Chicago Athenaeum Good Design Award.\n\nRashid also designed the OH Chair for Umbra; a \"scoop\" of plastic, making use of negative space, modeled into a chair. These chairs are still in the firm's catalogue today.\n\nUmbra Shift is a brand extension of Umbra that utilizes higher end materials and different production techniques. The products are sold through the independent retailers and the Umbra Shift website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18186114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18186114", "title": "Valri Bromfield", "text": "Valri Bromfield\n\nValri Bromfield (born February 10, 1949) is a Canadian comedian, actor, writer, and television producer who started her career as one half of a comedy team with Dan Aykroyd. Together, they joined the first Toronto company of The Second City where she was one of the original players.\n\nBromfield was a regular performer on the 1974 \"The Bobbie Gentry Show\". She performed comedy on the first episode of \"Saturday Night Live\"\non October 11, 1975.\n\nShe also appeared on another \"SNL\" episode in 1978. In 1979 she played \"Mary Mary\" on the ABC series \"Angie\". In 1980, she appeared as the character \"Debbie Smith\" on \"The David Letterman Show\". She played \"Laney Gibbs\" in \"Best of the West\" in 1981 and appeared on six episodes of \"SCTV\" between 1983–1984. In 1984, she appeared on nine episodes of \"The New Show\", another NBC sketch comedy show produced by \"Saturday Night Live\" creator Lorne Michaels.\n\nIn 1993, she appeared as herself on \"Friends of Gilda\". As the character \"Faith Burdette\", Bromfield appeared on nineteen episodes of \"Grace Under Fire\" between 1993 and 1995. In 1995, she appeared on \"Joe Bob's Drive-In Theater\".\n\nBromfield appeared on the CBC's \"90 Minutes Live\" and the \"BCTV\" show \"Zig Zag\", both in her native Canada.\n\nHer film credits include the role of \"Doris\" in the 1983 movie \"Mr. Mom\", the role of \"Belle Haimes\" in the 1987 movie \"Home Is Where the Hart Is\", the role of \"Detective Casey\" in the 1989 movie \"Who's Harry Crumb?\", the role of \"Miss Purdah\" in the 1991 movie \"Nothing but Trouble\", the role of \"Brandy\" in the 1992 movie \"Caged Fear\", the role of Dawny in the 1992 movie \"This Is My Life\", and the role of Wilma Jerzyck in the 1993 movie \"Needful Things\" (1993).\nAs a voice actor, she made her animation debut in the 1974 television movie \"The Gift of Winter\". A Halloween-themed sequel four years later that was titled \"Witch's Night Out\". Bromfield was the voice of \"Honey Bunny Funnybunny\" on an ABC Weekend Special in 1994 based on the works of Marilyn Sadler. She voiced \"Nurse Molly\" on \"Camp Candy\" and has provided voices for \"Popples\", \"Animaniacs\", \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"\" and other animated shows.\n\nBromfield has worked behind the scenes in a creative capacity on numerous TV series. From 1986 to 1990, she was a creative consultant on \"Head of the Class\". During the 1990–91 season, she served as a co-producer on \"Going Places\". She was also a supervising producer on \"The Kids in the Hall\". Bromfield has been credited as a writer on a number of shows in which she has appeared and other television shows such as \"That Thing\" (1978) and \"Space Cases\" (1996).\n\nHer sister Lois Bromfield is also a comedic actor, writer, and producer with a long list of credits, and her brother Rex Bromfield is a writer and retired film director.\n"}
