{"id": "25953330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25953330", "title": "Abortion in Albania", "text": "Abortion in Albania\n\nAbortion in Albania was fully legalized on December 7, 1995. Abortion can be performed on demand until the twelfth week of pregnancy. Women must undergo counseling for a week prior to the procedure, and hospitals which perform abortions are not allowed to release information to the public regarding which women they have treated.\n\nDuring the government of Enver Hoxha, Albania had a natalist policy, leading women to have abortions performed illegally or inducing them on their own. Eventually the country had the second-highest maternal mortality rate in all of Europe, and it was estimated that 50% of all pregnancies ended in an abortion. Women found guilty of aborting their pregnancies would either be shamed socially by the Communist Party or sent to work in a reeducation program.\n\nIn 1989 abortion was legalized in the case of rape and incest or if the patient was under the age of 16. In 1991 abortion-by-application was introduced, allowing women to terminate their pregnancies for a variety of reasons if a board of medical practitioners agreed it was the best decision. The 1995 law nullifies all previous laws.\n\n, the abortion rate was 9.2 abortions per 1000 women aged 15–44 years.\n"}
{"id": "50886955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50886955", "title": "Abortion in Cameroon", "text": "Abortion in Cameroon\n\nAbortion in Cameroon is only legal if the abortion will save the woman's life, the pregnancy gravely endangers the woman's physical or mental health, or the pregnancy is a result of rape.\n\nIn 1997, a survey in Yaoundé found 20 percent of women aged 20–29 had had at least one abortion. 80 percent of these procedures took place in a medical facility, but they were not always safe, and women often faced complications. The odds that a pregnant woman would seek an abortion were increased if they were educated or had children. Of women reporting past abortions, 40% had two or more. The survey found that 35% of all reported pregnancies in the capital city ended in abortion.\n\nIn 1990, the Cameroon government passed Act No. 90/035 to prohibit birth control education. Reports found that abortion and secretive reproductive health services were widespread and made up 40 percent of OB/GYN emergency admissions. However, most access to abortion clinics were limited to urban centers within the country.\n"}
{"id": "897134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897134", "title": "Cheating", "text": "Cheating\n\nCheating is the receiving of a reward for ability or finding an easy way out of an unpleasant situation by dishonest means. It is generally used for the breaking of rules to gain unfair advantage in a competitive situation. This broad definition will necessarily include acts of bribery, cronyism, nepotism, sleaze and any situation where individuals are given preference using inappropriate criteria. The rules infringed may be explicit, or they may be from an unwritten code of conduct based on morality, ethics or custom, making the identification of cheating conduct a potentially subjective process. Cheating can refer specifically to infidelity. Someone who is known for cheating is referred to as a \"cheat\" in British English, and a \"cheater\" in American English. A person described as a \"cheat\" doesn't necessarily cheat all the time, but rather, relies on deceiving tactics to the point of acquiring a reputation for it.\n\nAcademic cheating is a significantly common occurrence in high schools and colleges in the United States. Statistically, 64% of public high school students admit to serious test cheating. 58% say they have plagiarized. 95% of students admit to some form of cheating. This includes tests, copying homework, and papers. Only 50% of private school students, however, admit to this. The report was made in June 2005 by Rutgers University professor Donald McCabe for The Center for Academic Integrity. The findings were corroborated in part by a Gallup survey. In McCabe's 2001 of 4500 high school students, \"74% said they cheated on a test, 72% cheated on a written work, and 97% reported to at least had copied someone's homework or peeked at someone's test. 1/3 reported to have repeatedly cheated.\" The new revolution in high-tech digital info contributes enormously to the new wave in cheating: online term-paper mills sell formatted reports on practically any topic; services exist to prepare any kind of homework or take online tests for students, despite the fact that this phenomenon, and these websites, are well known to educators ; MP3 players can hold digitalized notes; graphing calculators store formulas to solve math problems.\n\nThe Chinese civil service examinations, the main route to career success for literate men in imperial China, was bedeviled for centuries by rampant cheating and examiner-bribery, as detailed in books like the Ming-dynasty \"Book of Swindles\".\n\nCheating in sports is the intentional breaking of rules in order to obtain an advantage over the other teams or players. Sports are governed by both customs and explicit rules regarding acts which are permitted and forbidden at the event and away from it. Forbidden acts frequently include performance-enhancing drug taking (known as \"doping\"), using equipment that does not conform to the rules or altering the condition of equipment during play, and deliberate harassment or injury to competitors.\n\nHigh-profile examples of alleged doping cheating include Lance Armstrong's use of steroids in professional cycling - particularly controversial as it is widely suspected that a high percentage of professional cyclists are using prohibited substances - Ben Johnson's disqualification following the 100 metres final at the 1988 Summer Olympics, and admissions of steroid use by former professional baseball players after they have retired, such as José Canseco and Ken Caminiti. A famous sporting scandal involving cheating via harassment and injury occurred in 1994 in figure skating when Tonya Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, and her bodyguard Shawn Eckhardt, hired Shane Stant to break Nancy Kerrigan's leg to remove her from the year's competitions and prevent her from competing with Harding. One of the most famous instances of cheating involving a prohibited player action occurred during the 1986 FIFA World Cup quarter-final, when Diego Maradona used his hand to punch the ball into the goal of England goalkeeper Peter Shilton. Using the hand or arm by anyone other than a goalkeeper is illegal according to the rules of association football.\n\nIllegally altering the condition of playing equipment is frequently seen in bat sports such as baseball and cricket, which are heavily dependent on equipment condition. For example, in baseball, a pitcher using a doctored baseball (e.g. putting graphite or Vaseline on the baseball), or a batter using a corked bat are some examples of this. Tennis and golf are also no strangers to equipment cheating, with players being accused of using rackets of illegal string tension, or golf clubs of illegal weight, size, or make. Equipment cheating can also occur via the use of external aids in situations where equipment is prohibited - such as in American football via the use of stickum on the hands of receivers, making the ball easier to catch. An example of this is Hall of Famer Jerry Rice, who admitted to regularly & illegally using \"stickum\" throughout his career, calling into question the integrity of his receiving records.\n\nAthletic cheating is a widespread problem. For example, in professional bodybuilding, cheating is now estimated to be so universal that it is now considered impossible to engage in professional competition without cheating and the use of supposedly banned substances; bodybuilders who refuse to take banned substances now compete in natural bodybuilding leagues.\n\nCheating may also be seen in coaching. One of the most common forms of this is the use of bribery and kickbacks in the player recruitment process. Such practices are widespread all across athletics, and are particularly visible in college sports recruitment. Another common form of cheating in coaching is profiteering in association with gamblers and match fixing (see also the section below on cheating in the gambling industry). The most famous coach of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas Runnin' Rebels basketball team, Jerry Tarkanian, was accused of both recruitment fraud and gambling fraud over the course of his career and was the subject of intense NCAA scrutiny. Another form of this involves a team coach or other manager undertaking corporate espionage or another form of prohibited spying in order to obtain details about other teams' strategies and tactics. The 2007 New England Patriots videotaping controversy, in which the New England Patriots were found to have videotaped an opposing team from an unapproved location while trying to obtain defensive signals. As was the Pittsburgh Steelers use of, at the time legal, performance enhancers. However, there was cheating proven by the Denver Broncos during their back to back titles in the late 90's to circumvent the league's salary cap and obtain and retain players that they would otherwise not have been able to. Circumvention of rules governing conduct and procedures of a sport can also be considered cheating. During the 2007 Formula One Season, driver Fernando Alonso was labelled a \"cheat\" for exchanging confidential information between the teams of Scuderia Ferrari and Mclaren, a form of collusion. \n\nAn example of cheating via judging collusion occurred in the 2002 Winter Olympics figure skating scandal when the Russian team was awarded a gold medal over the Canadian team in an alleged vote-swapping judging deal; the Canadian team's silver medals were eventually upgraded to gold at a second awards ceremony and the French judge was suspended for misconduct. The head of the French skating federation was later also suspended, and both were banned from the 2006 Olympic Games. The International Skating Union modified its judging system as a result of this case. \n\nCheating is also used to refer to movements in strength training that transfer weight from an isolated or fatigued muscle group to a different or fresh muscle group. This allows the cheater to move an initial greater weight (if the cheating continues through an entire training set) or to continue exercising past the point of muscular exhaustion (if the cheating begins part way through the set). As strength training is not a sport, cheating has no rule-based consequences, but can result in injury or a failure to meet training goals. This is because each exercise is designed to target specific muscle groups and if the proper form is not used the weight can be transferred away from the targeted group.\n\nIn video games, cheating can take the form of secret access codes in single-player games (such as the Konami code) which unlock a bonus for the player when entered, hacks and exploits which give players an unfair advantage in online multiplayer games and single-player modes, or unfair collusion between players in online games (such as a player who spectates a match, removing limitations such as \"fog of war\", and reports on enemy positions to game partners).\n\nAttitudes towards cheating vary. Using exploits in single-player modes is usually considered to be simply another form of exploring the game's content unless the player's accomplishments are to be submitted competitively, and is common in single-player games with a high difficulty level; however, cheating in multiplayer modes is considered immoral and harshly condemned by fair players and developers alike. On one hand, cheating allows casual players to complete games at much-accelerated speed, which can be helpful in some cinematic or one-player games, which can take a subjectively long time to finish, as is typical of the Role-Playing Game (RPG) genre. While this may be seen as a hasty advantage causing no damage to anyone, in a multi-player game such as MMORPGs the repercussions of cheating are much more damaging, breaking the risk/reward curve of the game and causing fair players to lose online matches and/or character development. Cheating in those types of games is generally prohibited - though often widespread anyway. In many circles, the purchasing of items or currency from sources outside the game is also considered to be cheating. The Terms of Service from many games where this is possible, directly prohibits this activity. One area where there is little consensus as of yet involves modern Free-to-play business models which support and are supported by the exchange of real-world money for in-game services, items, and advantages. Games that grant excessive advantages only available to paying customers may be criticized as being 'Pay to win' - sometimes considered a form of \"cheating\" that is actually legitimatized by the system - whilst games that limit real-money purchases to cosmetic changes are generally accepted as fair.\n\nAnother form of video game cheating is when a player does things to interact with game objects that are unforeseen by the programmers and break the intended function or reward system of the object. This can involve the way enemies are encountered, objectives met, items used, or any other game object that contains a software bug. One common example is the exploitation of errors in an enemy's pathfinding; if a player can cause an enemy to become \"stuck\" in a given terrain feature, that player can then usually dispatch the enemy from a distance without risk, even if much stronger, and achieve greater rewards than the player is intended to be able to at that level of progression. Another example was common in early first-person shooter games and involved skipping a weapon's reload timer by quickly switching weapons back and forth without actually reloading the weapons; resulting in what was effectively instant reloading. It also can be accomplished through means of altered game files are substituted for the normal files, or image graphics changed to permit greater visibility of the targets, etc. - for example, replacing the colors on a dark-colored enemy intended to blend in with the background with a bright color permitting instant visibility and targeting. Generally speaking, there is often some concern that this is not truly cheating, as it is the fault of the programmers that such an exploit exists in the first place. However, technically, as with live sports, it is cheating if the player is not playing the game in a formally approved manner, breaking unwritten rules. In some cases, this behavior is directly prohibited by the Terms of Service of the game.\n\nThe wagering of money on an event extends the motivation for cheating beyond directly participating competitors. As in sport and games, cheating in gambling is generally related to directly breaking rules or laws, or misrepresenting the event being wagered on, or interfering in the outcome.\nA boxer who takes a dive, a casino which plays with secretly loaded dice, a rigged roulette wheel or slot machine, or a doctored deck of cards, are generally regarded as cheating, because it has misrepresented the likelihood of the game's outcomes beyond what is reasonable to expect a bettor to protect himself against. However, for a bookmaker to flatter a horse in order to sell bets on it at shorter odds may be regarded as salesmanship rather than cheating, since bettors can counter this by informing themselves and by exercising skepticism.\nDoping a horse is a clear example of cheating by interfering with the instruments of the event under wager. Again, not all interference is cheating; spending money to support the health and well-being of a horse one has wagered on is not in itself generally regarded as cheating, nor is improving the morale of a sportsman one has backed by cheering for them. Generally, interference is more likely to be regarded as cheating if it diminishes the standard of a sporting competition, damages a participant, or modifies the apparatus of the event or game.\n\nIn the world of gambling, knowing a secret which is not priced into the odds gives a significant advantage, which may give rise to a perception of cheating. However, legal systems do not regard secretly making use of knowledge in this way as criminal deception in itself. This is in contrast to the financial world, where people with certain categories of relationship to a company are restricted from transacting, which would constitute the crime of insider trading. This may be because of a stronger presumption of equality between investors, or it may be because a company employee who also trades in the company's stock has a conflict of interest, and has thus misrepresented himself the company.\nAn advantage player typically uses mental, observational or technical skills to choose when and how much to bet, and neither interferes with the instruments of the game nor breaks any of its rules. Representatives of the casino industry have claimed that all advantage play is cheating, but this point of view is reflected neither among societies in general nor in legislation. As of 2010, the only example anywhere of a type of advantage play being unlawful is for an advantage player to use an auxiliary device in the U.S. State of Nevada, whose legislation is uniquely influenced by large casino corporations. Nonetheless it remains a widely held principle that the law should not impose any restraint over the method by which a player arrives at a playing or betting decision from information held by him lawfully and which he is not debarred from under the rules of the game. In \"hole carding\", a casino player tries to catch sight of the front of cards which are dealt face-down according to the rules.\nOne way of cheating and profiting through gambling is to bet against yourself and then intentionally lose. This is known as throwing a game or taking a dive. Illegal gamblers will at times pay sports players to lose so that they may profit from the otherwise unexpected loss. An especially notorious case is the Black Sox Scandal, when eight players of the 1919 Chicago White Sox took payment from gamblers and intentionally played poorly. Another happened in boxing when Jake LaMotta famously took a dive against Billy Fox in order to obtain his entry to a championship match against Marcel Cerdan, a deal offered by the mobsters who controlled professional boxing.\n\nVarious regulations exist to prevent unfair competitive advantages in business and finance, for example competition law, or the prohibition of insider trading.\n\nThe most extreme forms of cheating (e.g. attempting to gain money through outright deceit rather than providing a service) are referred to as fraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28900469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28900469", "title": "Christopher Rissel", "text": "Christopher Rissel\n\nChristopher Rissel (born 20 July 1961) is an Australian health promotion expert. The son of German migrants to Australia, he attended St Aloysius' College (Sydney) and graduated in 1979. He received a BSc Psych (Hons) from the University of New South Wales in 1985, a Master of Public Health from the University of Sydney in 1990, and PhD from the University of Minnesota (United States) in 1994.\n\nChristopher Rissel has worked in health promotion in several Area Health Services in New South Wales, and was the Director of the Health Promotion Service in the Sydney South West Area Health Service. He has over 250 peer-reviewed publications and dozens of research reports. One significant project was the Australian Study of Health and Relationships, the first large scale (n=19,207) national sexual health survey of Australians, covering topics including age of first sex, numbers of partners, prostitution, BDSM, circumcision. The results of the Second Australian Study of Health and Relationships were published in volume 11, issue 5 of the journal Sexual Health, 2014 noting changes since the first study.\n\nResearch interests now focus on childhood obesity prevention, and the promotion of active travel, particularly cycling He is co-author of the report ‘Cycling: Getting Australia Moving – Barriers, facilitators and interventions to get more Australians physically active through cycling’ and was invited to address the 2009 New Zealand National Cycling Conference. He led the NSW Health Promotion Demonstration Research Project Cycling Connecting Communities from 2007 to 2009. He is currently the Chief Investigator of the Sydney Transport and Health Study, an ARC funded study to evaluate the impact of a new bicycle path in inner Sydney.\n\nHe was the Editor-in-Chief of the Health Promotion Journal of Australia from 1992 to 1998, and is actively involved in the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Health Promotion Association. He is on the Editorial Board for the Health Promotion Journal of Australia, and the Journal of Transport and Health.\n\nHe currently is the Director of the NSW Office of Preventive Health based in the South Western Sydney Local Health District, and is Professor at the Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney.\n\n"}
{"id": "7467736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7467736", "title": "Clinical Trials Directive", "text": "Clinical Trials Directive\n\nThe Clinical Trials Directive (Officially Directive 2001/20/EC of 4 April 2001, of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use) is a European Union directive that aimed at facilitating the internal market in medicinal products within the European Union, while at the same time maintaining an appropriate level of protection for public health. It seeks to simplify and harmonise the administrative provisions governing clinical trials in the European Community, by establishing a clear, transparent procedure.\n\nThe Member States of the European Union had to adopt and publish before 1 May 2003 the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive. The Member States had to apply these provisions at the latest with effect from 1 May 2004.\n\nThe Articles of the Directive:\n\nIt is considered to have increased the costs of doing clinical trials in the EU, and to have caused the reduction in the number of such trials, especially of academic-led studies, and ones looking at new uses for old drugs. Germany derogated from the directive. It is due to be replaced by the EU Clinical Trials Regulation in 2016. The changes are due to come into effect in the second half of 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12717210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12717210", "title": "Crow (comics)", "text": "Crow (comics)\n\nThe Crow (Eric) is a fictional character and the protagonist of \"The Crow\" comic book series, originally created by American artist James O'Barr in 1989. The titular character is an undead vigilante brought back to life by a supernatural crow to avenge his murder and that of his fiancée. The character has subsequently appeared in several feature films, a television series, and spin-off novels and comics. In the various incarnations, films, and spin-offs, many people have taken on the Crow persona in order to avenge their own wrongful deaths. In 2011, IGN ranked the Crow 37th in the Top 100 Comic Book Heroes.\nThe Crow made his live-action debut in the 1994 \"The Crow\" portrayed by Brandon Lee. Later, The Crow was portrayed by Mark Dacascos in the 1998 television series \"\".\n\nThe Crow is a supernatural bird that serves as the protagonist's link between the living world and the realm of beyond. The magical crow is capable of resurrecting people who have been murdered, so that the victims may be able to seek justice on the person or people responsible for their death. This story is said to come from an old Native American legend.\n\nDuring the person's \"rebirth\", the crow serves as a guide, helping the individual tap into his or her potential and assisting in tracking down the wrongdoers. Other people do not see the crow, only the reborn, unless he wants it. The Crow speaks to the reborn, often helping guide them to exact their revenge.\n\nIn the film adaptations, the crow is a real bird and if harmed or killed, the reborn becomes vulnerable. However, the Crow also seems to be much more enduring than a regular bird and might possess some regeneration abilities (e.g. in \"The Crow\" movie the bird survives after being shot with a rifle).\n\nWhile they are in possession of the Crow's powers, the reborn are endowed with several unique abilities. As they are already dead, the reborn are incapable of feeling pain or fatigue and possess a supernatural ability to recover from seemingly all injuries in a matter of moments. Chief among their physical abilities is their inhuman strength and enhanced reflexes; able to quickly brutalize several opponents simultaneously, even those who would be otherwise untouchable, as well as catch fast-moving projectiles such as throwing knives with their bare hands. In both \"Wicked Prayer\" and \"Stairway to Heaven\", the source of the reborn's strength is attributed to their love for the ones they've lost. Alternatively, Ashe Corvin says in \"City of Angels\" that the fuel for \"his\" power is pain. In either case, the Crow's magic is rooted in lost love.\n\nAlso, again in the movies, the reborn possesses the ability to see images from his or her loved one's memory when touching things he or she touched before, or to see the memories of a person when touching them. In addition the reborn usually can send the images and feelings from the memories already absorbed to the person whose eyes the reborn touches at the moment; in \"The Crow\", protagonist Eric Draven makes villain Top Dollar feel 30 hours of his (Eric's) murdered girlfriend Shelly's pain in one moment. In \"The Crow: Stairway to Heaven\", Eric can see events that transpired simply by touching objects that belonged to someone.\n\nAlthough the person brought back to life by the Crow is physically invulnerable, in the movies and later Crow comics they do have one weakness: they lose their power if the crow is harmed or killed. In addition, the reborn lose their invincibility when they consider their mission completed; in \"\", protagonist Alex Corvis is tricked into thinking that he completed his mission, thus he becomes vulnerable. However, his guide Crow makes Alex realize his mistake and rise again.\n\nIn the comic book \"The Crow: Waking Nightmares\", it is stated that the Crow power is taken from the reborn if they abandon their mission. In case of losing special powers the reborn become vulnerable, starts to rot, and rigor mortis sets in, as if the reborn were still in their graves.\n\nIn \"The Crow: City of Angels\" and \"The Crow: Salvation\", those resurrected by the Crow have the ability to turn into crows themselves and possess the natural abilities of a crow, such as flight and night vision.\n\nIn the comic book, the origin of Eric's make-up is explained briefly as \"painting his face in the colors of joy\". This indicates that he copied the Greek comedy masquerade mask in his and Shelly's house. Contrary to the movie, in the book Eric does not paint his face with white. The white pale color comes from the fact that Eric is dead, it's just a corpse inhibited by a soul. Joshua and Mark Leung do not wear any distinctive make-up, and Ashe's is provided by Sarah, as in the movie. Iris Shaw paints the semblance of a Crow on her face with the tail covering her nose, and the wings covering her eyes. She removes it to face her final killer. Michael Korby's makeup covers his neck and shoulders. The makeup is referred as \"the mask of death\" and \"the trails of Gorgon's blood\" in \"\" comic book. In \"\", Jamie Osterberg's pale skin color and eye/mouth lines are not created by make-up, however, and his hair has turned completely white. In \"\", Carrie's pale skin color is not accomplished by make-up, there is no horizontal line over the mouth, and the vertical lines over the eyes are shorter and thinner.\n\nIn all feature films, except \"\", the protagonist wears make-up that cover their face. In the first movie Eric Draven copies the pattern from one of the masquerade that decorated his and Shelly's apartment, which consists of white paint placed over the face with black paint around eyes, black vertical lines over and under eyes, black paint on the lips and a black horizontal line across the mouth and cheeks, resembling a Glasgow smile. In \"The Crow: City of Angels\" Ashe's make-up was provided by Sarah and looks similar. Jimmy's make-up in \"The Crow: Wicked Prayer\" is similar as well, though there is no horizontal line over the mouth and the vertical eye lines are shorter and thinner.\n\nIn the third movie, \"The Crow: Salvation\", Alex Corvis is executed in the electric chair, and his face is burned by the metal helmet which was worn over his head during the execution. He removes the burned skin following his resurrection, scarring his face around the eyes and lips, thus forming a pattern similar to the classical make-up. However, there are two vertical lines over each of his eyes and they cross with the horizontal lines on his mouth.\n\nIn \"The Crow: Stairway to Heaven\" TV series, Eric's \"make-up\" appears automatically whenever he \"changes\" into The Crow. His fingernails become black, while his face becomes white, with vertical lines over the eyes and short horizontal/diagonal lines extending from his lips, like a smile; they disappear when he becomes 'normal'.\n\nEven though not all the reborn wear make-up, they are still usually drawn in a certain style: their lips are usually distinctively black, skin around eyes is black, while the eyes are sometimes burning white. Generally the style of drawing reminds the pattern of the classical makeup.\n\nThe resurrected souls in the \"Crow\" novels do not wear the traditional face paint/markings.\n\nThe protagonist of the original comic book. Eric and his fiancée, Shelly, are on their way back from a romantic get-away, when their vehicle breaks down on a deserted road. A car full of gang members stops, not to help, but to take advantage of the couple's misfortune. They shoot Eric in the head paralysing him while they rape and kill his fiancée in the car, Eric dying hours later in the hospital. A year later, resurrected by The Crow, Eric exacts vengeance on the men responsible for their deaths.\n\nFollowing the original series, London Night Studios published the six-issue series \"The Crow/Razor: Kill the Pain\" (#1-4, #0 and a Finale issue) in 1998, which saw Eric paired with Everette Hartsoe's character, Razor. In it Eric is again returned to the land of the living, this time to help Razor fight a demonic gang known as Pain. In the end Eric must face the events which led to his death, and the realization that why the reason his soul cannot rest is because he blames himself for being unable to save Shelly. A follow-up magazine entitled \"The Crow/Razor: Nocturnal Masque\", featuring artwork of both characters with quotes attributed to each, was also published.\n\nEric was also in a 10 issue series by Image Comics which reimagined the plot, adding influences from the film. Eric and Shelly's lives are cut short when a wrong apartment number leads a gang of drug lords to mistakenly murder them only days before their wedding. Now, Eric haunts the city as the Crow, a shadow administering revenge for not only his loss, but for others as well. A police officer enlists the aid of the Crow to uncover the truth about the jailed suspect of a murdered 9-year-old girl. As the Crow is flushing out information about the murder, he discovers that Shelly`s grave has been desecrated and her body has been removed. Another vigilante, a Native American named Walker, who communicates with a wolf, begins killing local murderers.\n\nJoshua appears in the three issue series \"\", the follow-up to the original graphic novel. Joshua is a Native American farmer of the Crow Nation who adopts the \"white man's way\" and becomes a farmer. Joshua, along with his wife and child, are murdered by a band of Confederate soldiers. A century later, Joshua is resurrected by the Crow and hunts down the soldiers, who have been reincarnated as a biker gang.\n\nIris appears in the three issue series \"The Crow: Flesh and Blood\" and is the first woman to assume the role. Iris is a Federal Conservation officer who is killed, along with her unborn child, by terrorists. The Crow resurrects her to hunt them down. She seems to be not completely invincible, as, according to the Crow, she must complete her mission before she rots. Thus, she cannot really heal, and uses a stapler to repair her wounds.\n\nMichael appears in the three-issue series \"The Crow: Wild Justice\". Michael and his wife are murdered during a car jacking. He is brought back by two crows named Hugo and Manny respectively, and must avenge his and his wife's death before the Gorgon blood running through his veins runs out. The Gorgon god tattoos Michael's body, which gives him the power to regenerate until the blood runs out.\n\nMark appears in the four-issue series \"The Crow: Waking Nightmares\". Mark and his wife are murdered by the Chinese Mafia. Instead of going after their killers, Mark returns to save his twin daughters, whom the mob have sold into slavery.\n\nLeandre appears in \"The French Crow\", Vols. 2 and 3, published in France in 2007, in the two-part story \"The Medieval Crow\". Leandre and his wife Jeanne are murdered and their son Lestal stolen on the orders of Lord Arthuro, who is seeking an heir. Leandre achieves his vengeance and eventually kills Arthuro, but accidentally kills Lestal. After his son's death, Leandre is abandoned by his Spirit Crow and must wander the Earth until he learns the true reason for his restless wandering.\n\nHe appears in \"The French Crow\", Vol. 4, published in France in 2010, in the story \"La Fiancée du Corbeau\" (\"Bride of the Crow\"). Vincent is a young make-up artist in the 1930s who falls in love with Evy, an actress. He tries to rescue Evy from being raped by a gang of stagehands but is murdered by them, and he returns a year later, aided by a Spirit Crow, to seek vengeance.\n\nShe appears in \"The French Crow\", Vols. 4 & 5, published in France in 2010, in the two-part story \"Le Sang des Innocents\" (\"Blood of the Innocent\"). Elorah is an undercover police officer investigating a narcotics baron; after being murdered and revived by a Spirit Crow, she must now face not only her murderer but his creation: a cyborg that feeds on blood.\n\nAppearing in the five issue series \"The Crow: Death And Rebirth\", Jamie Osterberg is a foreign exchange student studying in Tokyo, Japan. His fiancée Haruko and other friends vanish, only to return possessed by someone else. Jamie finds out too much and is killed. Resurrected by the power of The Crow, with a sword that seeks truth, he learns that the \"possession\" was caused by a process that can insert one person's mind into another person's body and that Haruko was taken because an old rich dying woman wanted a new life in Haruko's body. Jamie hunts down those responsible to free the souls of his friends and be reunited with his one true love ... even if it means allying himself with Japanese ghosts and demons and following a path of vengeance through the different Japanese Hells (see \"Diyu\").\n\nThe protagonist of the three issue series \"\", which takes place at a Nazi concentration camp. The Man, whose name is never revealed, is an inmate whom the camp's commandant murders after losing to him in a game of chess. The Man is resurrected by The Crow and wreaks terrible vengeance on all of the troops at the camp. He eventually finds and kills his murderer, avenging himself and the other victims of the camp. He then disappears into the night, intending to take revenge on the nearby town whose inhabitants knew what was happening at the camp and did nothing about it.\n\nIn the three issue series \"The Crow: Curare\", Carrie is a young girl who was murdered by a serial killer who preys on children. She is resurrected by a Spirit Crow (which she calls \"Birdy\"). She is also the only protagonist in the \"Crow\" canon who does not personally engage in violence; instead, she helps Detective Joe Salk, who investigated her murder, to find her killer and take revenge.\n\nIn \"\", Salvador is a young boxer in Juárez, Mexico who refuses to take a fall, but has no problem taking a drug gang's pay-off. When the gang kills Salvador and his family, he returns years later in search of vengeance and forgiveness. The final showdown not only reveals an unexpected ally and an equally unexpected truth about his family's murder, but also pits him against \"el Santa Muerte\" ... Death itself.\n\nIn \"The Crow: Momento Mori\", David is a Catholic altar boy who is killed along with his girlfriend Sarah and dozens of others in a terrorist attack in Rome, Italy. Resurrected as the Crow, he wreaks vengeance on those who committed the atrocity, but wiping out the terrorists does not prove the end of the story, as the mastermind behind the attack and the reasons for it still remain a mystery that he must solve before he can rest in peace.\n\nEric Draven was portrayed by martial artist actor Brandon Lee in the 1994 film \"The Crow\", based on the comic book. The film had the same basic premise, except that the couple were murdered in their loft apartment because they were fighting tenant eviction instead of being murdered on the side of the road for fun. The film supplies Eric and Shelley with the respective last names Draven and Webster; in the graphic novel, they were referred to only by their first names. In the movie Eric depends on the Crow's health (which is a real bird) to be invincible (unlike the book where Eric is totally invincible and the crow is kind of a spirit that mostly only Eric sees).\n\nHe appears in \"\", the sequel to \"The Crow\".\n\nAshe Corven (portrayed by (Vincent Pérez) is resurrected by the magical crow to avenge the death of his son Danny, who was killed along with him after accidentally witnessing a gang committing a murder. Like his predecessor, Ashe successfully kills each of the gang members until he meets the crime boss who ordered his death. The crime boss, Judah Earl (portrayed by Richard Brooks), wishes to obtain Ashe's powers for himself and will do his worst to gain them. In his endeavors, Ashe is assisted by Sarah (from the original film; now portrayed by Mia Kirshner). Sarah provides Ashe's facial make-up in honor of Eric and helps him in his mission. While Ashe is on his way to kill Judah after dispatching his gang, Judah captures his spirit crow and drinks its blood, gaining Ashe's powers. While the film's ending has Ashe and Danny reunited, the original intended ending leaves Ashe unable to move on to the Afterlife, condemning him to wander the Earth.\n\nHe appears in \"\", the third movie in the series. Alexander Frederick \"Alex\" Corvis (portrayed by Eric Mabius) is convicted of murdering his girlfriend, Lauren (portrayed by Jodi Lyn O'Keefe), and then executed in the electric chair. Alex is assisted by Lauren's younger sister, Erin (portrayed by Kirsten Dunst), as they uncover the mystery surrounding the murder. Alex is the only reborn whose make-up didn't appear mysteriously and wasn't provided purposefully, but rather appeared in the form of creepy-looking burn scars on his face.\n\nAppears in \"\", the fourth movie in the series, which was based on the fifth book of the Crow series of the same name (Dan Cody was the character's name in the book).\n\nAs in the book, James \"Jimmy\" Cuervo (portrayed in the movie by Edward Furlong) and his girlfriend Lily \"Ignites the Dawn\" (Leticia \"Dreams The Truth\" Hardin in the novel and portrayed by Emmanuelle Chriqui in the film) are hunted down by a gang of Satanists who want to steal her eyes for use in an outlandish ritual. She and Jimmy are both killed in the process. Jimmy then goes on a journey to avenge his and his girlfriend's death and take down the satanists in the process.\n\nEric was also portrayed by Mark Dacascos in the television series \"\" in 1998. This version of Eric differed slightly from the other versions in that his mission wasn't about revenge, but about redemption. 22 episodes were produced in which Eric acts as a vigilante helping the needy, before the series was pulled in 1999.\n\nPlayed by Bobbie Phillips, she appears in \"The Crow: Stairway to Heaven\". Hannah Foster is brought back to life one year after she and her daughter are killed. Like Draven, Hannah has a Spirit Crow and possesses all of the Crow's powers. However, unlike Eric, she constantly battles between the need for redemption and her lust for vengeance; also, her methods for dealing with her opposition are far more severe than Draven's.\n\nNECA Cult Classics Icons Series 1 Action Figure Eric Draven (The Crow).\nHot Toys release The Crow (Eric Draven) 1/6th scale collectible figure.\n\nHe appears in \"\", the first published novel in the series. Blessing is a popular horror writer who is murdered by his jealous protégé Donald Marquette, aided by a goth gang with literary aspirations. His wife is viciously raped in the encounter, and Blessing is brought back to exact vengeance. Blessing's body is continually on the verge of rotting away, his willpower to complete his mission the only thing holding him together. It's also implied that Blessing's healing abilities are actually the result of cannibalistic feeding off his victims.\n\nHe appears in \"\", the second published novel in the series. Poe is a controversial S&M photographer who becomes the target of a serial killer in Louisiana who preys on gay men and transsexuals. He is wrongfully arrested by members of a homophobic police force and convicted for the murder of his homosexual lover (who was actually killed by the serial killer), and while on Death Row is murdered by a fellow inmate whose brother was one of the serial killer's victims and who believed that Poe was the killer. Upon his rebirth, he tries to track down the real killer with the help of his lover's transsexual sister, while also avenging himself on the homophobes who were responsible for his arrest, conviction and death. This novel's basic plot was the direct inspiration for \"\".\n\nShe appears in \"\", the third published novel in the series. Amy is a day care owner who is killed in a bombing, along with some of the children she watches, when a militia group calling themselves The Sons of America tries to kill a popular senator who was supposed to have been visiting the center but who pulled out at the last minute. Six months after the bombing, Amy is resurrected by a Spirit Crow, but discovers that her husband Rick has moved on with her best friend, who survived the blast. During her acts of vengeance against the militia group's members, Amy is seen and recognized by Rick, who then attempts to infiltrate the militia group.\n\nHe appears in \"\", the fourth published novel in the series. In turn-of-the-century Bangkok, the Klong Toey shantytowns are home to shadowy erotic emporiums where millionaire celebrities act out their darkest sexual fantasies, protected by money, influence, and American diplomacy. Stephen Lellicott is a young American journalist assigned to expose the latest cover-up, but he's about to break the two cardinal rules of journalism: Don't fall in love, and don't get killed.\n\nHe appears in \"The Crow: Wicked Prayer\", the fifth published novel in the series and the basis for the . He and his girlfriend Leticia \"Dreams The Truth\" Hardin are murdered by John Church and Kyra Damon, who have learned about the power of The Crow, who want immortality and who need Leticia's eyes to achieve it. Dan is resurrected, then goes on a journey to avenge his and his girlfriend's deaths.\n\nThey appear in \"\", the last published novel, dating from 2001. In this book, a demon named Dren is looking for salvation; Satan's fiery underworld has become a foreign place to him and he feels he is different from the other souls. After escaping from Hell, Dren must save a single soul in order to pass on to the heavens above. Billy is a young hoodlum working for a big-time mobster, and like Dren he has also changed and wants out of the seedy underworld he calls his home. But neither the mob nor Hell look kindly on deserters; Satan has sent two rogue demons to stop Dren and the mob has hired a conjurer named Nadja to kill Billy. In the end, the two must call on the powers of the Crow to save them both and to escape their own hells — waging a full-scale war on the mobsters of Earth above and the lord of darkness below.\n\n"}
{"id": "45516408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45516408", "title": "Daniel Gollán", "text": "Daniel Gollán\n\nDaniel Gollán is the former Health Minister of Argentina. \n\nDaniel Gollán made his university studies during the Dirty War, and joined the \"Juventud Universitaria Peronista\". He met the future president Néstor Kirchner by then. He studied under the guidance of the cardiologist Floreal Ferrara. He led the ANMAT from 2008 to 2010, and advises the \"Carta Abierta\" group on topics related to health. \n\nHe was appointed minister of health in Argentina, on February 26, 2015. Replacing Juan Luis Manzur. Kirchnerism could not achieve a victory for Daniel Scioli in the 2015 presidential election that allowed him to prevent a ballotage, and runs for a runoff election against Mauricio Macri. Kirchnerism reacted with a negative campaigning against Macri. Gollán said, in his Twitter account, \"The 12 new radiation therapy centers to treat cancer will continue if Scioli is president. Think well before you vote\". The opposition asked for his resignation, and Gollán deleted the post and claimed that his account had been hacked. Still, his previous posts have a similar tone.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2236126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236126", "title": "Death (cigarette)", "text": "Death (cigarette)\n\nDeath was an English brand of cigarettes which was owned and manufactured by the Enlightened Tobacco Company in the United Kingdom from 1991 to 1999.\n\nEntrepreneur BJ Cummingham invested his life savings to create and market an additive-free smoking product called Death. He founded the Enlightened Tobacco Company in 1991. Its product disclosed its hazardous nature by prominently displaying skull and crossbones on its outer package and came in two varieties; Death, and Death Lights. The product was marketed to the “young underground punk rock” consumer market. The products were sold for a time via mail order from Luxembourg to avoid the United Kingdom's excise tax, however after some time the Customs and Excise department disallowed this sales channel.\n\nThe company's plans to offer sponsorship to the Pacific Racing F1 in 1994 fell through after Roland Ratzenberger and Ayrton Senna were killed at the San Marino Grand Prix. That year the company was turned down by the \"top five poster contractors\" who would not provide the company with permission to use their sites because of its \"blunt\" marketing message and a pending parliamentary bill restricting tobacco advertising.\n\nThe company \"was losing a million pounds per year\" and could not afford a massive advertising campaign. The firms trademark rights were successfully challenged by an alcohol company called Black Death. The impending lawsuit barred the sale of Death cigarettes and the company closed down.\n\nDeath cigarettes were mainly sold in the United Kingdom, but was also sold in the United States, Norway and Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "900035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900035", "title": "Dipsomania", "text": "Dipsomania\n\nDipsomania is a historical term describing a medical condition involving an uncontrollable craving for alcohol. In the 19th century, the term dipsomania was used to refer to a variety of alcohol-related problems, most of which are known today as alcoholism. Dipsomania is occasionally still used to describe a particular condition of periodic, compulsive bouts of alcohol intake. The idea of dipsomania is important for its historical role in promoting a disease theory of chronic drunkenness. The word comes from Greek \"dipso\" (= thirst) and \"mania\".\n\nIt is still mentioned in the WHO ICD-10 classification as an alternative description for Alcohol Dependence Syndrome, episodic use F10.26\n\nThe term was coined by the German physician Christoph Wilhelm Hufeland in 1819, when, in a preface to an influential book by German-Russian doctor C. von Brühl-Cramer, he translated Brühl-Cramer's term \"trunksucht\" as \"dipsomania\".\n\nDue to the influence of Brühl-Cramer's pioneering work, dipsomania became popular in medical circles throughout the 19th century. Political scientist Mariana Valverde describes dipsomania as \"the most medical\" of the many terms used to describe habitual drunkenness in the 19th century. Along with terms such as \"inebriety\", the idea of dipsomania was used as part of an effort of medical professionals and reformers to change attitudes about habitual drunkenness from being a criminally punishable vice to being a medically treatable disease. As historian Roy MacLeod wrote about this dipsomania reform movement, it \"illuminates certain features of the gradual transformation taking place in national attitudes towards the prevention and cure of social illnesses during the last quarter of the 19th century.\"\n\nAlthough \"dipsomania\" was used in a variety of somewhat contradictory ways by different individuals, by the late 19th century the term was usually used to describe a periodic or acute condition, in contrast to chronic drunkenness. In his 1893 book \"Clinical Lessons on Mental Diseases: The Mental State of Dipsomania\", Magnan characterized dipsomania as a crisis lasting from one day to two weeks, and consisting of a rapid and huge ingestion of alcohol or whatever other strong, excitatory liquid was available. Magnan further described dipsomania as solitary alcohol abuse, with loss of all other interests, and these crises recurred at indeterminate intervals, separated by periods when the subject was generally sober.\n\nOver time, the term dipsomania became less common, replaced by newer ideas and terms concerning chronic and acute drunkenness and alcoholism.\n\n"}
{"id": "18660824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660824", "title": "EPPI-Centre", "text": "EPPI-Centre\n\nThe Evidence for Policy and Practice Information and Co-ordinating Centre (EPPI-Centre) is part of the Social Science Research Unit at the Institute of Education, University of London. Its work is concerned with systematic reviews which use transparent and explicit methodologies for reviewing research evidence in order to be clear about what we know from research and how we know it. \n\nA major focus of the EPPI-Centre is the development of methods of systematic reviews including systematic mapping and synthesis. The Centre is the Methods for Research Synthesis (MRS) Node of the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) National Centre for Research Methods.\n\nThe Centre has adapted the model of systematic reviews that has been widely developed in healthcare to address a broader range of questions and methodologies relevant to public policy research such as statistical, narrative and conceptual synthesis. \n\nThe EPPI-Centre's programme of work seeks to develop ways of working with various groups of research and service ‘users’ throughout the review process, including deciding which topics need most urgently to be reviewed, and analyzing and disseminating the results of reviews. \nA particular aim is to explore the perspectives and participation of those people who are, or represent, people receiving a service or who are affected by the service in some other way. This might include: patients in a clinical encounter; students in a classroom; people receiving, missing or avoiding health promotion interventions; or students and parents in relation to an education policy. \n\nThe EPPI-Centre conducts systematic reviews of research evidence across a range of topics. Major areas include education, health promotion, employment, social care and justice.\nThe reviews on these topics can be found in an Online Evidence Library, which provides evidence overviews of broad topic areas as well as summaries and full reports of specific reviews conducted or supported by the EPPI-Centre.\n\nWork at the EPPI-Centre is funded by a range of research councils, government departments and charities and national and international partners. The EPPI-centre has strong links with two international collaborations concerned with policy-relevant reviews of research evidence: the Cochrane Collaboration in health care and the Campbell collaboration for social interventions.\n\nThe EPPI-Centre offers a large programme of training and workshops on methodological and practical aspects of systematic research synthesis, including an MSc in Research for Public Policy and Practice. The Centre offers face-to-face and online distance short courses in Systematic reviews for policy and practice; Participative research and policy; and Methods for research synthesis. \n\nEPPI-Reviewer is a web application that enables researchers to manage the entire lifecycle of a review in a single location. Users are able to upload studies for screening, complete keywording and data extractions and analyse the results over the internet. Analytical functions include meta-analysis, summary tables and support for qualitative synthesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "21496931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21496931", "title": "Exercise prescription", "text": "Exercise prescription\n\nExercise prescription commonly refers to the specific plan of fitness-related activities that are designed for a specified purpose, which is often developed by a fitness or rehabilitation specialist for the client or patient. Due to the specific and unique needs and interests of the client/patient, the goal of exercise prescription should be focused on motivation and customization, thus making achieving goals more likely to become successful.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there is a scheme called \"Exercise on prescription\" in which doctors are able to prescribe exercise to those with conditions that benefit from it, such as asthma, depression, or obesity. The initiative particularly aimed to lower the rate of heart disease. National standards for such initiatives from doctors were established by the Department of Health in 2001. Exercise on prescription aims to prevent deterioration of conditions, and views exercise as a preventative health measure. Fitness classes or a course at the local gym are available on prescription at a reduced rate to people who might benefit from them. It aims to make it easier for people to follow their doctors' advice about taking more exercise or losing weight. Such preventative measures hope to lead to savings for the National Health Service.\nResearchers in New Zealand have also discussed the benefits of exercise referral by medical practitioners there. In New Zealand it is known as a green prescription, while in the United States a similar initiative is known as Exercise is Medicine.\nA green prescription is a referral given by a doctor or nurse to a patient, with exercise and lifestyle goals written on them.\nThe term, used by health practitioners in New Zealand draws parallel to the usual prescriptions given to patients for medications, and emphasises the importance of exercise in improving their condition, and not relying on drugs.\nThe green prescription is written after discussing the issues and goals in the consultation.\nStudies have shown that an increase in exercise, better sense of well-being, and a decrease in blood pressure results from using the method. A decreased risk of coronary heart disease has not been shown. This was shown in two studies, one by Swinburn (1998), that surveyed patients in Auckland and Dunedin. The other was Elley (2003) and was done in 42 practices in the same region of New Zealand.\n\nGeneral practitioners like the idea as it formalises what they are telling the patient about how their lifestyle changes are necessary (Swinburn 1997).\n\nResearch in Australia has suggested that an exercise prescription program would be very beneficial and many ICU physiotherapists are already performing this practice, however there is no national standards to govern how this practice is administered so there is great variety in the ways this is administered therefore more research is needed.\n\nStudies show that exercise prescription aids in both preventing and minimizing the effects of joint disorders such as osteoarthritis. Evidence shows that in addition to the general physiological, psychological and functional benefits gained from exercise, greater quadriceps strength has a mitigating effect on knee joint pain.\n\nA large body of research indicates that exercise prescription has beneficial effects for patients suffering depression. One study shows a significant improvement for a randomized group of women with major depressive disorder engaging in a twice-weekly resistance training program compared to a control group. The reasons for this marked change is thought to have biochemical, physiological and psychosocial aspects.\n\nBlockage or closing of the arteries of the lower limbs impairs blood flow to the legs and results in significant reduction in physical capacity. Alternate exercise prescriptions to walking are considered. Aerobic exercises such as arm-cranking or cycling are recommended. Risk factors for disease progression should also be taken into account when aiming to improve waling ability. Functional capacity should be determined prior to commencement of prescribe exercise programs.\n\nThe number of individuals diagnosed with diabetes mellitus are rapidly increasing and a lot of evidence suggests this is due to an insufficiently active lifestyle.\nBenefits of exercise include stress reduction, reduced risk of heart disease, lowers blood pressure, helps control weight and aids insulin in improving management of diabetes. Exercise that is not too strenuous is recommended. Such activities may include walking, swimming, gardening, cycling or golfing.\nIncidental activities are encouraged, such as using the stairs instead of an escalator/lift or walking short distances instead of driving. \nDr Gebel, who works at James Cook University's Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention conducted a study reporting increased health benefits through incorporation of more vigorous exercise. He stated that this could include 'vigorous gardening', not necessarily meaning going to the gym.\nDiabetes Australia suggest 30 minutes of exercise daily as a suitable target, which can be divided into three 10-minute sessions throughout the day.\nExercise programs however should be tailored and delivered by individuals with appropriate qualifications.\n\nAccording to Exercise and Sport Science Australia, a minimum amount of 210 minutes of moderate intensity exercise or 125 minutes of vigorous intensity exercise should be performed per week. Exercise should include both aerobic and resistance training. For greater health benefits, exercise should be performed regularly with no more than a two-day gap between training sessions.\n\nResearch has found that having a well planned exercise routine can greatly benefit the elderly. It an reduce the risks of coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus and insulin resilience, hypertension and obesity as well as vast improvements in bone density and muscle mass.\n\nExercise prescription is designed to modulate acute exercise programming variables to create the adaptations desired by the individual or sport. With aerobic exercise prescription, the type of exercise, duration of exercise, frequency, and duration is adjusted. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. Prescription of stretching and other activities is also commonly seen.\nExercise prescription can be divided into 5 components:\n\n"}
{"id": "5174388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174388", "title": "Federal Occupational Health", "text": "Federal Occupational Health\n\nFederal Occupational Health (FOH) is a non-appropriated agency within the Program Support Center (PSC) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). FOH works in partnership with federal organizations nationally and internationally to design and deliver comprehensive occupational health solutions exclusively to federal employees.\n\nFOH was created in 1946 by an amendment to the Public Health Service Act and provides services exclusively to federal agencies and the Department of Defense. FOH is the largest provider of occupational health services in the Federal Government, serving more than 360 federal agencies and reaching 1.8 million federal employees.\n\nIt has 300 health centers throughout the U.S. and a network of over 700 private-provider physicians and nurses through which it provides clinical services, including emergency response, physical exams, immunizations, vision and health screenings, and health risk appraisals. It also maintains more than 200 counseling offices in federal buildings as well as a network of affiliate counselors in approximately 1,000 locations across the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "4376466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4376466", "title": "Fish medicine", "text": "Fish medicine\n\nFish medicine is the study and treatment of the diseases of fish. Although some practitioners work primarily with aquarium fish, this field also has important applications to fisheries management.\n\nFish medicine is a relatively recent veterinary specialization; veterinary textbooks in the English language were not published until the early 1990s. The United States does not have an official specialization for fish medicine, worldwide there are several professional organizations for veterinarians interested in fish medicine, such as the World Aquatic Veterinary Medical Association, and the International Association of Aquatic Animal Medicine.\n\nIn March 2006, South Korea began offering a licensing examination for fish disease professionals, or \"fish doctors.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "254058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254058", "title": "Five-second rule", "text": "Five-second rule\n\nThe five-second rule, sometimes also the three-second rule, is a western cultural food hygiene concept, that states that there is a defined window where it is permissible to pick up food (or sometimes cutlery) after it has been dropped and thus exposed to contamination. Some may believe this assertion, whereas most people employ the rule as an amusing social fiction that allows them to eat a dropped piece of food, despite the potential reservations of their peers. How many and what type of bacteria would stick to a piece of dropped food depends on many factors, the food or the floor being wet or dry among them. There is also a social dimension as dropped food in a restaurant or when guests are around is simply unacceptable, but in a family or private situation it may be still tolerated.\n\nThere appears to be no scientific consensus on the general applicability of the rule, and its origin is unclear.\n\nThe five-second rule has received some scholarly attention. It has been studied as both a public health recommendation and a sociological effect.\n\nIn 2003, Jillian Clarke of the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign found in a survey that 56% of men and 70% of women surveyed, were familiar with the five-second rule. She also determined that a variety of foods were significantly contaminated by even brief exposure to a tile inoculated with \"E. coli\". On the other hand, Clarke found no significant evidence of contamination on public flooring. For this work, Clarke received the 2004 Prize in public health.\nA more thorough study in 2006 using salmonella on wood, tiles, and nylon carpet, found that the bacteria were able to thrive under dry conditions even after twenty-eight days. Tested after eight hours of exposure, the bacteria was still able to contaminate bread and bologna in under five seconds. But a minute-long contact increased contamination about tenfold (especially tile and carpet surfaces). \nThe researchers at the Rutgers University also debunked this theory by dropping watermelon cubes, Haribo strawberry gummies, plain white bread, and buttered bread from a height of five inches on to the ground. \nThe surfaces selected were slathered in \"Enterobacter aerogenes\". The surfaces used were carpet, ceramic tile, stainless steel and wood. The food was left on the surface in intervals of 5, 30 and 300 seconds. The scientists assessed the amount of \"E. aerogenes\" transferred between surface and food. Since bacteria tended to be attracted to moisture, wet food had more risk to have bacteria transferred than dry food. To the surprise of the researchers, carpet transferred fewer bacteria than steel or tile. Wood was hard to pin down. It showed a large variation. \"The five-second rule is a significant oversimplification of what actually happens when bacteria transfer from a surface to food,” Donald Schaffner, a Rutgers University biologist and an author of the research, said in a statement in the \"Washington Post\". \"Bacteria can contaminate instantaneously.\"\n\nThe five-second rule was also featured in an episode of the Discovery Channel series \"MythBusters\". There was no significant difference in the number of bacteria collected. The aspects that affect the contamination process is the moisture, surface geometry and the location. Ted Allen put the rule to the test in an episode of \"Food Detectives\", and found that bacteria will cling to food immediately. Vsauce, a YouTube channel, also dedicated a video to this topic.\n\nA 2006 study could not verify the \"rule\" and looked at tile, wood, and carpet floors. It indicated that bacteria can survive on grounds for long time.\n\nA 2016 \"New York Times\" article states \"You may think your floors are so clean you can eat off them, but a new study debunking the so-called five-second rule would suggest otherwise.\" In response, a pediatrician discounted the danger in consuming certain foods dropped onto floors.\n\nA 2014 study, by biology students at Aston University in England, suggested that there may be a basis for the five-second rule. Anthony Hilton, head of microbiology at Aston University, indicated in 2017 that food dropped on a seemingly clean floor for a few moments can be eaten with minimal risk.\n"}
{"id": "43211084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43211084", "title": "Global Health Observatory", "text": "Global Health Observatory\n\nThe Global Health Observatory (GHO) is an initiative of the World Health Organization to share data (through their website) on global health, including statistics by country and information about specific diseases and health measures.\n\nIn December 2012, the World Health Organization announced that it was making improvements in its Global Health Observatory to improve its accessibility and usability by \"specialists such as statisticians, epidemiologists, economists and public health researchers as well as anyone with an interest in global health.\"\n\nThe GHO website is organized around themes. For each theme, key statistics are presented on the associated webpage, and more detailed data and reports are available for download. The themes include:\n\n\nThe GHO has been listed by many libraries and dataset listings as a go-to source for information on health statistics. The GHO has also been cited in work of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States.\n\nGHO data has also been cited in academic studies on various aspects of global health, particularly for cross-country comparisons.\n\n"}
{"id": "3531750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3531750", "title": "Gregory Stock", "text": "Gregory Stock\n\nGregory Stock is a biophysicist, best-selling author, biotech entrepreneur, and the former director of the Program on Medicine, Technology and Society at UCLA’s School of Medicine. His interests lie in the scientific and evolutionary as well as ethical, social and political implications of today's revolutions in the life sciences and in information technology and computers.\n\nHe received an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1987, where he was a Baker Scholar and won the Freund-Porter Entrepreneurship award. Stock completed a doctorate in biophysics from Johns Hopkins University in 1977, where he received a BS and MS in 1971.\n\nHe has written extensively on the implications for society, medicine and business of the human genome project and associated developments in molecular genetics and bioinformatics. The Storefront Genome, the symposium he convened in January 2003 to consider the broad challenges that cheap, easy access to our genetic constitutions drew wide media attention, and his 1998 look at the possibilities of manipulating the genetics of human embryos, the first major public discussion of this issue among distinguished scientists, opened a global debate on this then taboo topic.\n\nStock was the CEO of Signum Biosciences. Signum Biosciences is a private biotechnology company dedicated to developing small-molecule therapeutics derived from its Signal Transduction Modulation (STM) platform to modulate signal transduction imbalances. Through research on protein networks that control biological systems, Signum is developing therapeutic candidates for Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's, diabetes, asthma and certain skin conditions. Signum’s STM technology provides many opportunities for the development of novel consumer products and pharmaceutical candidates. Signum was founded on the science derived from basic research studying cellular signaling at the Princeton University laboratory of ww.molbio.princeton.edu/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=240 Dr. Jeffry Stock\n\nHe sits on the editorial board of the \"American Journal of Bioethics\" and is in the department of Pediatrics at the UCLA School of Medicine. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Napo Pharmaceuticals, a pharmaceutical company headquartered in San Francisco. He sits on the California Advisory Committee on Stem Cells and Reproductive Cloning and serves as the associate director for the Bioagenda Institute and the Center for Life Science Studies at the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nDr. Stock has been an invited speaker to many academic, government and business conferences. He makes regular appearances on television and radio, and has appeared on CNN, PBS, NPR and the BBC in shows including Talk of the Nation, Charlie Rose, Oprah Winfrey, Biotech Nation and Larry King.\n\nStock was an early force in considering the implications of human germline engineering and human enhancement. Through the Program on Medicine, Technology and Society, which he founded at the UCLA School of Medicine, he organized an influential 1998 conference at UCLA: \"Engineering the Human Germline,\" which included a panel of James Watson, French Anderson, Lee Hood and other major figures in the life sciences. The event, which attracted considerable media attention and opened up broad debate on what was then a largely taboo topic, was covered on the front page of the New York Times. Through another seminal UCLA conference, Milestones on Aging, he organized, Stock helped legitimize research to significantly extend human longevity. The \nevent led to a follow conference he co-hosted at UC Berkeley with Bruce Ames and Aubrey de Grey, who went on to found the Methuselah Foundation, an organization that has aggressively promoted research on life extension. The activity of the MTS Program was also critical in establishing UCLA’s Center on Society and Genetics, which actively explores broad policy issues in the genomics arena.\n\nStock is now primarily engaged in the development of new therapeutics at Signum Biosciences, a biotech company he co-founded in 2003, but he remains active in the policy arena through UCLA's MTS Program, which he still directs, and the BioAgenda Institute, which he is the associate director of, and through various public appearances and debates. Stock has presented diverse keynotes ranging from “The Coming Era of Personalized Medicine” at Medco, “Trends in Health, Science and Nutrition” at the American Dietetic Association, \"The Future of Genomics and Healthcare\" at Johnson and Johnson, \"The Coming Healthcare Revolution\" at HIMS (Healthcare Information Management Society) and \"The Evolution of the Biotech Revolution\" at Applied Biosystems to \"21st Century Opportunities and Challenges\" at the World Future Society, \"Beauty, Health and Biotech: A Look Ahead\" at Fashion Group International, \"Redesigning Humans: Best Hope, Worst Fear\" at the TED (Technology, Education and Design) Conference, and \"From Pharmacogenomics to Genetic Design\" at the World Transhumanist Association. He has also been involved with broadcast media through guest appearances on shows such as the PBS documentary \"Religion and Ethics: The Challenge and Ethics of Strong Biotechnology,\" debates on NPR's Talk of the Nation and Charlie Rose, via an online multimedia documentary he produced with funding from the Greenwall and Sloan Foundations entitled \"Human Germline Engineering: Implications for Science and Society\"(www.germline.ucla.edu), and in an ARTE documentary examining key figures in Biotechnology. (he also has a nephew named Jake Posl)\n\nStock's expertise in biotechnology, genetics and public policy in the life sciences led to his appointment on the California Advisory Committee on Stem Cells and Reproductive Cloning, Dept. of Health Services, State of California.\n\nStock has always been a strong advocate for the aggressive implementation of new technology in the life sciences and he has publicly debated many leading figures in the bioethics community, including Francis Fukuyama, Jeremy Rifkin, Leon Kass, George Annas, Dan Callahan, Bill McKibben, Michael Sandel, William Hurlbut and Nigel Cameron. In these appearances, he has consistently argued against restrictions on life science research including funding bans on stem cell research, moratoriums on cloning, overly protective pharmaceutical regulatory controls, and efforts to constrain anti-aging research. A fellow of the World Technology Council and World Academy of Art and Science, Stock's argues in favor of the positive benefits of new technology has on human life and the role it will play on our future.\n\nDr. Stock has written works on the impact and significance of recent advances in technology and the life sciences, and several bestsellers on values and ethics. His Book of Questions series, which consists of four eclectic collections of provocative situational dilemmas, was designed to generate discussion and thought about value-laden issues. The series has sold more than three million copies in total, been translated into 17 languages, and spawned a host of imitations. The original Book of Questions was number 1 on the New York Times Bestseller's list for 8 weeks.\n\nHis books on technology, public policy and future human evolution are:\n\n\n\"Redesigning Humans\" won the Kistler Award Kistler Prize for science writing. Stock has also written numerous articles and papers on these topics.\n\n\nStock currently serves on the editorial Board of Rejuvination Science, the International Journal of Bioethics, the Journal of Evolution and Technology, and the American Journal of Bioethics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1915636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915636", "title": "Identity crisis", "text": "Identity crisis\n\nIn psychology, the term identity crisis means the failure to achieve ego identity during adolescence. The term was coined by German psychologist Erik Erikson.\n\nThe stage of psychosocial development in which identity crisis may occur is called the Identity Cohesion vs. Role Confusion. During this stage, adolescents are faced with physical growth, sexual maturity, and integrating ideas of themselves and about what others think of them. Adolescents therefore form their self-image and endure the task of resolving the crisis of their basic ego identity. Successful resolution of the crisis depends on one's progress through previous developmental stages, centering on issues such as trust, autonomy, and initiative.\n\nErikson's own interest in identity began in childhood. Born Ashkenazic Jewish, Erikson felt that he was an outsider. His later studies of cultural life among the Yurok of northern California and the Sioux of South Dakota helped formalize Erikson's ideas about identity development and identity crisis. Erikson described those going through an identity crisis as exhibiting confusion.\n\nSometimes individuals face obstacles that may prevent the development of a strong identity. This sort of unresolved crisis leaves individuals struggling to \"find themselves\". They often seem to have no idea who or what they are, where they belong or where they want to go. They may withdraw from normal life, not taking action or acting as they usually would at work, in their marriage or at school, or be unable to make defining choices about the future. They may even turn to negative activities, such as crime or drugs since from their point of view having a negative identity could be more acceptable than none at all.\n\nOn the other side of the spectrum, those who emerge from the adolescent stage of personality development with a strong sense of identity are well equipped to face adulthood with confidence and certainty. \n\nErikson felt that peers have a strong impact on the development of ego identity during adolescence. He believed that association with negative groups such as cults or fanatics could actually \"redistrict\" the developing ego during this fragile time. The basic strength that Erikson found should be developed during adolescence is fidelity, which only emerges from a cohesive ego identity. Fidelity is known to encompass sincerity, genuineness and a sense of duty in our relationships with other people.\n\nHe described identity as \"a subjective sense as well as an observable quality of personal sameness and continuity, paired with some belief in the sameness and continuity of some shared world image. As a quality of unself-conscious living, this can be gloriously obvious in a young person who has found himself as he has found his commonality. In him we see emerge a unique unification of what is irreversibly given — that is, body type and temperament, giftedness and vulnerability, infantile models and acquired ideals — with the open choices provided in available roles, occupational possibilities, values offered, mentors met, friendships made, and first sexual encounters.\"\n\nJames Marcia's research on identity statuses of adolescents also apply to Erikson's framework of identity crises in adolescents.\n\nIdentity foreclosure is an identity status which Marcia claimed is an identity developed by an individual without much choice. \"The foreclosure status is when a commitment is made without exploring alternatives. Often these commitments are based on parental ideas and beliefs that are accepted without question\". Identity foreclosure can contribute to identity crises in adolescents when the \"security blanket\" of their assumed identity is removed. These \"foreclosed individuals often go into crisis, not knowing what to do without being able to rely on the norms, rules, and situations to which they have been accustomed.\" An example of this would be a son of a farmer who learns that his father is selling the farm, and whose identity as an heir to a farm and the lifestyle and identity of a farmer has been shaken by that news.\n\nIdentity diffusion is a Marcian identity status that can lead to identity crises in adolescents. Identity diffusion can be described as \"the apathetic state that represents the relative lack of both exploration and commitment\". Identity diffusion can overlap with diagnoses such as schizophrenia and depression, and can best be described as a lack of identity structure. An example of an identity crisis emerging from this status is an adolescent who becomes recluse after his identity as a star athlete is destroyed by a serious injury.\n\nIdentity moratorium is the status that Marcia theorizes lasts the longest in individuals, is the most volatile, and can be best described as \"the active exploration of alternatives\". Individuals experiencing identity moratorium can be very open-minded and thoughtful but also in crisis over their identity. An example of this would be a college student who lacks conviction in their future after changing majors multiple times but still cannot seem to find their passion.\n\nIdentity achievement is the resolution to many identity crises. Identity achievement occurs when the adolescent has explored and committed to important aspects of their identity.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11827668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11827668", "title": "International Health Regulations", "text": "International Health Regulations\n\nThe International Health Regulations (2005) are a legally binding instrument of international law that aim to a) assist countries to work together to save lives and livelihoods endangered by the international spread of diseases and other health risks, and b) avoid unnecessary interference with international trade and travel.\n\nThe purpose and scope of IHR 2005 are to prevent, protect against, control and provide a public health response to the international spread of disease in ways that are commensurate with and restricted to public health risks, and which avoid unnecessary interference with international traffic and trade. (Art. 2, IHR (2005))\n\nThe International Health Regulations originated with the International Sanitary Regulations adapted at the International Sanitary Conference in Paris in 1851. The cholera epidemics that hit Europe in 1830 and 1847 made apparent the need for international cooperation in public health.\n\nIn 1948, the World Health Organization Constitution came about. The Twenty-Second World Health Assembly (1969) adopted, revised and consolidated the International Sanitary Regulations, which were renamed (in the English language only) the International Health Regulations (1969). The Twenty-Sixth World Health Assembly in 1973 amended the IHR (1969) in relation to provisions on cholera. In view of the global eradication of smallpox, the Thirty-fourth World Health Assembly amended the IHR (1969) to exclude smallpox in the list of notifiable diseases.\n\nDuring the Forty-Eighth World Health Assembly in 1995, WHO and Member States agreed on the need to revise the IHR (1969). The revision of IHR (1969) came about because of its inherent limitations, most notably:\n\nThese challenges were placed against the backdrop of the increased travel and trade characteristic of the 20th century.\n\nThe IHR (2005) entered into force, generally, on 15 June 2007, and are currently binding on 196 States Parties, including all 194 Member States (countries) of WHO.\n\nThe implementation of IHR (2005) shall be:\n\nIn 2010 at The Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and Their Destruction in Geneva the sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance was suggested as well-tested means for enhancing the monitoring of infections and parasitic agents, for practical implementation of the IHR (2005) with the aim was to prevent and minimize the consequences of natural outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases as well as the threat of alleged use of biological weapons against BTWC States Parties. The significance of the sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance is pointed out in assessing the sanitary-epidemiological situation, organizing and conducting preventive activities, indicating and identifying pathogenic biological agents in the environmental sites, conducting laboratory analysis of biological materials, suppressing hotbeds of infectious diseases, providing advisory and practical assistance to local health authorities.\n\nA PHEIC is defined in the IHR (2005) as, “an extraordinary event which is determined to constitute a public health risk to other States through the international spread of disease and to potentially require a coordinated international response”. [1] This definition implies a situation that is:\nSince 2007, the WHO Director-General has declared public health emergencies of international concern in response to the following: [2]\n\n1) 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic\n\n2) 2014 setbacks in polio global eradication efforts\n\n3) 2014 west Africa Ebola epidemic\n\n4) 2016 Zika virus outbreak\n\nCriticism of International Health Regulations\n\nRevisions to the International Health Regulations in 2005 were meant to lead to improved global health security and cooperation. However, the WHO’s perceived delayed and inadequate response to the west African Ebola Epidemic brought renewed international scrutiny to the International Health Regulations. Numerous published reports by high-level panels have assessed the International Health Regulations for inadequacies and proposed actions that can be taken to improve future responses to outbreaks. [3]\n\nOne publication reviewed seven of these major reports and identified areas of consensus on action. [4] The seven reports noted inadequate compliance with WHO’s International Health Regulations as a major contributor to the slow response to Ebola. They found three major obstacles that contributed to poor compliance: 1) countries’ core capacities, 2) unjustified trade and travel restrictions, and 3) inability to ensure that governments report outbreaks quickly.\n\n· Core Capacity\n\nThe IHR requires countries to assess their disease surveillance and response capacities and to identify if they can adequately meet their requirements. The seven Ebola reports universally agree that the country’s self-assessment capabilities are insufficient and that verification measures need to be improved upon. A significant problem is the inadequate level of core capacities in some countries, and the question of how to build upon them has been frequently raised. The reports make several recommendations to encourage governments to increase investment in outbreak identification and response programs. These include technical help from external sources conditional on mobilizing domestic resources, external financing for low income countries, pressure from the international community to increase investment, and considering outbreak preparedness as a factor in the International Monetary Fund’s country economic assessments, which influence governments’ budget priorities and access to capital markets.\n\n· Trade and Travel\n\nThe second issue frequently raised is ensuring that restrictions on trade and travel during outbreaks are justified. Because of increased attention and concern from the public and the media, many governments and private companies restricted trade and travel during the Ebola outbreak, though many of these measures were not necessary from a public health standpoint. These restrictions worsened financial repercussions and made the work of aid organizations sending support to affected regions more difficult.\n\nThere was broad consensus across the reports that bringing such restrictions to a minimum is critical to avoid further harm to countries experiencing outbreaks. Moreover, if governments assume that reporting will lead to inappropriate travel and trade restrictions, they may be hesitant to notify the international community about the outbreak. Potential solutions raised included the WHO and the UN more assertively “naming and shaming” countries and private companies that impose unjustified restrictions on WHO working with the World Trade Organization, International Civil Aviation Organization, and International Maritime Organization to develop standards and enforcement mechanisms for trade and travel restrictions.\n\n· Outbreak Reporting\n\nThe third compliance issue relates to countries’ obligation to rapidly report outbreaks. The reports recommend strengthening this obligation by WHO publicizing when countries delay reporting suspected outbreaks. In contrast, mechanisms ensuring that countries rapidly receive operational and financial support as soon as they do report were also recommended. A novel approach to encourage early notification is the World Bank’s Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility. This was created to provide rapid financing for the control of outbreaks and to protect countries from the devastating economic effects of outbreaks via an insurance program.\n\n"}
{"id": "29416798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29416798", "title": "Juan A. del Regato", "text": "Juan A. del Regato\n\nJuan A. del Regato (1 March 190912 June 1999) was an oncologist.\n\n1993 AMA Scientific Achievement Award\n"}
{"id": "3738162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738162", "title": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 401 to 500", "text": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 401 to 500\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 401 to 500 adopted between 14 December 1976 and 28 January 1982.\n"}
{"id": "236345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236345", "title": "List of diseases (J)", "text": "List of diseases (J)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"J\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43158315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43158315", "title": "List of restaurant terminology", "text": "List of restaurant terminology\n\nThis is a list of restaurant terminology. A restaurant is a business that prepares and serves food and drink to customers in return for money, either paid before the meal, after the meal, or with a running tab. Meals are generally served and eaten on premises, but many restaurants also offer take-out and food delivery services. Restaurants vary greatly in appearance and offerings, including a wide variety of the main chef's cuisines and service models.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23949994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23949994", "title": "List of victims of the 'Ndrangheta", "text": "List of victims of the 'Ndrangheta\n\nThis list of victims of the 'Ndrangheta includes people who have been killed by the Calabrian 'Ndrangheta while opposing its rule. It does not include people killed in internal conflicts of the 'Ndrangheta itself.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5600677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5600677", "title": "Medical Laboratory Assistant", "text": "Medical Laboratory Assistant\n\nMedical Laboratory Assistants (MLAs) prepare, and in some cases process samples within a pathology laboratory. They also utilise pre-analytical systems in order for biomedical scientists (BMS) or Medical Laboratory Scientific Officers to process the biochemical tests requested on the sample. The majority of an MLA's time is spent in processing specimens. As such, the MLA has to have excellent knowledge of their particular sample acceptance policy, whilst obeying the data protection act, patient confidentiality, COSHH and the Caldicott rules.\n\nOther duties an MLA may undertake include, setting up blood analyzers, running Quality Controls and manual controls prior to a BMS undertaking analysis on samples. Maintenance and decontamination is essential for the function of the machinery therefore MLAs carry out this role on a weekly or monthly basis.\n\nA typical method of sample acceptance (in a clinical chemistry lab) is as follows:\n\n\nMLA's also deal with all sample queries and give low level advice to clinical staff on sample acceptance and correct sampling method. They may also do minor upkeep on the pre-analytical systems as well as further upkeep on some point of care analysers — depending on the laboratory in which they are based.\n\nRequirements for a position of medical laboratory assistant vary from state to state, but they are generally as follows:\n\n\nMedical laboratory assistants are required to have good analytical abilities and keen attention to detail. They must be able to work under pressure and display manual dexterity. Because they work with minute substances and technical equipment, good vision and computer skills are mandatory.\n\nhttp://www.newwestrecord.ca/community/pace-for-lab-assistants-is-zero-to-60-1.557923\n\n"}
{"id": "12571217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12571217", "title": "Medical food", "text": "Medical food\n\nMedical foods are foods that are specially formulated and intended for the dietary management of a disease that has distinctive nutritional needs that cannot be met by normal diet alone. In the United States they were defined in the Food and Drug Administration's 1988 Orphan Drug Act Amendments and are subject to the general food and safety labeling requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In Europe the European Food Safety Authority established definitions for \"foods for special medical purposes\" (FSMPs) in 2015.\n\nMedical foods, called \"food for special medical purposes\" in Europe, are distinct from the broader category of foods for special dietary use, from traditional foods that bear a health claim, and from dietary supplements. In order to be considered a medical food the product must, at a minimum:\n\nMedical foods can be classified into the following categories:\n\nMedical foods are regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration under the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act regulations. 21 CFR 101.9(j) (8).\n\nThe term medical food, as defined in section 5(b) of the Orphan Drug Act (21 U.S.C. 360ee (b) (3)) is \"a food which is formulated to be consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician and which is intended for the specific dietary management of a disease or condition for which distinctive nutritional requirements, based on recognized scientific principles, are established by medical evaluation.\"\n\nMedical foods are not required to undergo premarket review or approval by FDA. Additionally, they are exempted from the labeling requirements for health claims and nutrient content claims under the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990. In 2016 the FDA published an update: Guidance for Industry: Frequently Asked Questions About Medical Foods; Second Edition. Definitions and labeling requirements are included.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877503", "title": "Mousercise", "text": "Mousercise\n\nMousercise is the title of several Disney productions:\n\n"}
{"id": "46930328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46930328", "title": "Mythotherapy", "text": "Mythotherapy\n\nMythotherapy is a therapeutic method based on psychology, mythology, Cognitive Sciences, CBT, anthropology, philosophy.\n\nMythotherapy is combined from two parts: the first part is mytho- which is the equivalent for the word \"myth\" which itself is from French \"mythe\" (1818) and originally from \"mythus\" in Modern Latin and its older form was the Greek \"mythos\" which means: speech, thought, story, myth, anything delivered by word of mouth. So in Mythotherapy, myth has a very vast meaning and refers to, primarily, mythological texts and secondly, sacred texts. What is important in mythotherapy is the fundamental realms of human soul and spirit which contains archetypes and a very huge unconscious knowledge and wisdom. \nThe second part, the suffix -logy comes from -logia (λογία) in Greek which means \"study of\" or \"research\".\nMythotherapy is an interdisciplinary therapeutic method which uses myths and sacred texts and mythological findings for therapy; and at the same time uses psychology, cognitive sciences, cognitive behavior therapy, anthropology, philosophy and ancient knowledge and wisdom for therapeutic intentions. Mythotherapy is also a method for knowing the Self and self-actualization\n\nIn ancient cultures using myths and sacred texts as a therapeutic tool was known and applied. Also they used myths and sacred texts for teaching a child how to enter the adult world, especially during the initiation. In initiation, myths have a really important role to give the person the teachings a man needs for knowing the world, its mechanisms, human, and the Self and how to act in the world. \nIn the ancient world they used myths to heal disease. In ancient Egypt, for example, to cure an illness a physician who was at the same time a votary would start to narrate a special myth or a narration from a sacred text. This action would heal the person even in physical cases. \nIn modern psychology it was Carl Gustav Jung that for the first time noted this domain in a very vast, deep and practical way.\nIn 1980 decade it was Jean Shinoda Bolen, the Jungian psychiatrist, who used myths as a way to discover the inner soul of men and women and a way to reach the unconscious of human. \n\n"}
{"id": "8773775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8773775", "title": "NHS Supply Chain", "text": "NHS Supply Chain\n\nNHS Supply Chain is an organisation run by DHL Supply Chain on behalf of the NHS Business Services Authority. The organisation's role is to provide a dedicated supply chain to the National Health Service (NHS) in England.\n\nThe contract for the venture was signed in September 2006 and became active in October 2006. Before the outsource, the organisation was called NHS Logistics Authority and then simply NHS Logistics. Some elements of NHS Purchase and Supply Agency were also transferred over to the new organisation.\n\nSince 2018, over 200 staff from the NHS Supply Chain and NHS Business Services Authority have been transferred to Supply Chain Coordination Limited.\n\nThe organisation has a number of warehouses in the following locations:\n\nThere are three office sites:\n\n"}
{"id": "10087198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10087198", "title": "National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan", "text": "National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan\n\nThe National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan, more commonly called the National Contingency Plan or NCP, is the United States federal government's blueprint for responding to oil spills and hazardous substance releases. It documents national response capability and is intended to promote overall coordination among the hierarchy of responders and contingency plans.\n\nThe first National Contingency Plan was developed and published in 1968, in response to a massive oil spill from the oil tanker Torrey Canyon, off the coast of England a year earlier. More than 37 million gallons of crude oil spilled into the water and caused massive environmental damage. To avoid the problems faced by response officials involved in the incident, US officials developed a coordinated approach to cope with potential spills in US waters. The 1968 plan provided the first comprehensive system of accident reporting, spill containment, and cleanup. It also established a response headquarters, a national reaction team, and regional reaction teams (precursors to the current National Response Team and Regional Response Teams).\n\nCongress has broadened the scope of the National Contingency Plan over the years. As required by the Clean Water Act of 1972, the NCP was revised the following year to include a framework for responding to hazardous substance spills and oil discharges. Following the passage of Superfund legislation in 1980, the NCP was broadened to cover releases at hazardous waste sites requiring emergency removal actions. Over the years, additional revisions have been made to the NCP to keep pace with the enactment of legislation. The latest revisions to the NCP were finalized in 1994 to reflect the oil spill provisions of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990.\n\nUnder the National Contingency Plan, federal agencies should plan for emergencies and develop procedures for addressing oil discharges and releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants; coordinate their planning, preparedness, and response activities with one another coordinate their planning, preparedness, and response activities with affected states, local governments, and private entities; and make available those facilities or resources that may be useful in a response situation, consistent with agency authorities and capabilities.\n\nOnce a response has been triggered, the USCG or USEPA \"is authorized to initiate and, in the case of a discharge posing a substantial threat to public health or welfare of the United States is required to initiate and direct, appropriate response activities when the Administrator or Secretary determines that any oil or\nCWA hazardous substance is discharged or there is a substantial threat of such discharge from any vessel or offshore or onshore facility into or on the navigable\nwaters of the United States, on the adjoining shorelines to the navigable waters, into or on the waters of the exclusive economic zone, or that may affect natural resources belonging to, appertaining to, or under exclusive management authority of the United States.\"\n\nThe federal On-Scene Coordinator (OSC) \"directs response efforts and coordinates all other efforts at the scene of a discharge or release.\"\n\n\nThe plan places responsibility for command and control in managing serious disaster response with the US federal government and not a private company like BP, according to a 2010 article in \"Rolling Stone (magazine)\" about the BP Gulf oil spill.\n\nSection 300.110 establishes the National Response Team and its roles and responsibilities in the National Response system, including planning and coordinating responses to major discharges of oil or hazardous waste, providing guidance to Regional Response Teams, co-ordinating a national program of preparedness planning and response, and facilitating research to improve response activities. The EPA serves as the lead agency within the National Response Team (NRT). \n\nSection 300.115 establishes the Regional Response Teams and their roles and responsibilities in the National Response System, including, coordinating preparedness, planning, and response at the regional level. The RRT consists of a standing team made up of representatives of each federal agency that is a member of the Net, state and local government representatives, and also an incident-specific team, made up of members of the standing team that is activated for a response. The RRT also provides oversight and consistency review for area plans within a given region.\n\nSection 300.120 establishes general responsibilities of federal On-Scene Coordinators.\n\nSection 300.125(a) requires notification of any discharge or release to the National Response Center through a toll-free telephone number. The National Response Center (NRC) acts as the central clearinghouse for all pollution incident reporting.\n\nSection 300.135(a) authorizes the predesignated On-Scene Coordinator to direct all federal, state, and private response activities at the site of a discharge.\n\nSection 300.135(d) establishes the unified command structure for managing responses to discharges through coordinated personnel and resources of the federal government, the state government, and the responsible party.\n\nSection 300.165 requires the On-Scene Coordinator to submit to the RRT or the NRT a report on all removal actions taken at a site.\n\nSection 300.170 identifies the responsibilities for federal agencies that may be called upon during response planning and implementation to provide assistance in their respective areas of expertise consistent with the agencies' capabilities and authorities.\n\nSection 300.175 lists the federal agencies that have duties associated with responding to releases.\n\nSection 300.210 defines the objectives, authority, and scope of Federal Contingency Plans, including the National Contingency Plan (NCP), Regional Contingency Plans (RCPs), and Area Contingency Plans (ACPs).\n\nSection 300.317 establishes national priorities for responding to a release.\n\nSection 300.320 establishes the general pattern of response to be executed by the On-Scene Coordinator (OSC), including determination of threat, classification of the size and type of the release, notification of the RRT and the NRC, and supervision of thorough removal actions.\n\nSection 300.322 authorizes the OSC to determine whether a release poses a substantial threat to the public health or welfare of the United States based on several factors, including the size and character of the discharge and its proximity to human populations and sensitive environments. In such cases, the OSC is authorized to direct all federal, state, or private response and recovery actions. The OSC may enlist the support of other federal agencies or special teams.\n\nSection 300.323 provides special consideration to discharges which have been classified as a spill of national significance. In such cases, senior federal officials direct nationally-coordinated response efforts.\n\nSection 300.324 requires the OSC to notify the National Strike Force Coordination Center (NSFCC) in the event of worst case discharges, defined as the largest foreseeable discharge in adverse weather conditions. The NSFCC coordinates the acquisition of needed response personnel and equipment. The OSC also must require implementation of the worst case portion of the tank vessel and Facility Response Plans and the Area Contingency Plan.\n\nSection 300.355 provides funding for responses to oil releases under the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, provided certain criteria are met. The responsible party is liable for federal removal costs and damages as detailed in section 1002 of the Oil Pollution Act (OPA). Federal agencies assisting in a response action may be reimbursed. Several other federal agencies may provide financial support for removal actions.\n\nSubpart J establishes the NCP Product Schedule, which contains dispersants and other chemical or biological products that may be used in carrying out the NCP. Authorization for the use of these products is conducted by Regional Response Teams and Area Committees or by the OSC, in consultation with EPA representatives.\n\nSection 300.415(b) authorizes the lead agency to initiate appropriate removal action in the event of a hazardous substance release. Decisions of action will be based on threats to human or animal populations, contamination of drinking water supplies or sensitive ecosystems, high levels of hazardous substances in soils, weather conditions that may cause migration or release of hazardous substances, the threat of fire or explosion, or other significant factors affecting the health or welfare or the public or the environment.\n\nSection 300.415(c) authorizes the OSC to direct appropriate actions to mitigate or remove the release of hazardous substances.\n\n"}
{"id": "15234661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15234661", "title": "Non-protein nitrogen", "text": "Non-protein nitrogen\n\nNon-protein nitrogen (or NPN) is a term used in animal nutrition to refer collectively to components such as urea, biuret, and ammonia, which are not proteins but can be converted into proteins by microbes in the ruminant stomach. Due to their lower cost compared to plant and animal proteins their inclusion in a diet can result in economic gain, but at too high levels cause a depression in growth and possible ammonia toxicity (microbes convert NPN to ammonia first before using that to make protein.) NPN can also be used to artificially raise crude protein values, which are measured based on nitrogen content, as protein is about 16% nitrogen, but, for example, urea is 47% nitrogen. The source of NPN is typically a chemical feed additive, or sometimes chicken waste and cattle manure.\n\n"}
{"id": "65692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65692", "title": "Operational definition", "text": "Operational definition\n\nAn operational definition is the articulation of operationalization (or statement of procedures) used in defining the terms of a process (or set of validation tests) needed to determine the nature of an item or phenomenon (a variable, term, or object) and its properties such as duration, quantity, extension in space, chemical composition, etc. Since the degree of operationalization can vary itself, it can result in a more or less operational definition. The procedures included in definitions should be repeatable by anyone or at least by peers.\n\nAn example of operational definition of the term \"weight\" of an object, operationalized to a degree, would be the following: \"weight is the numbers that appear when that object is placed on a weighing scale\". According to it, the weight can be any of the numbers shown on the scale after, including the very moment the object is put on it. Clearly, the inclusion of the moment when one can start reading the numbers on the scale would make it more fully an operational definition. Nonetheless, it is still in contrast to those purely theoretical definitions.\n\nProperties described in this manner must be sufficiently accessible so that people other than the definer may independently measure or test for them at will. An operational definition is generally designed to model a theoretical definition.\nThe most operational definition is a process for identification of an object by distinguishing it from its background of empirical experience.\n\nThe binary version produces either the result that the object exists, or that it doesn't, in the experiential field to which it is applied. The classifier version results in discrimination between what is part of the object and what is not part of it. This is also discussed in terms of semantics, pattern recognition, and operational techniques, such as regression.\n\nOperationalize means to put into operation or use. Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will. For example, 100 degrees Celsius may be crudely defined by describing the process of heating water at sea level until it is observed to boil. An item like a brick, or even a photograph of a brick, may be defined in terms of how it can be made. Likewise, iron may be defined in terms of the results of testing or measuring it in particular ways.\n\nVandervert (1980/1988) described in scientific detail a simple, everyday illustration of an operational definition in terms of making a cake (i.e., its recipe is an operational definition used in a specialized laboratory known as the household kitchen). Similarly, the saying, \"if it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it must be some kind of duck\", may be regarded as involving a sort of measurement process or set of tests (see duck test).\n\nDespite the controversial philosophical origins of the concept, particularly its close association with logical positivism, operational definitions have undisputed practical applications. This is especially so in the social and medical sciences, where operational definitions of key terms are used to preserve the unambiguous empirical testability of hypothesis and theory. Operational definitions are also important in the physical sciences.\n\nThe \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" entry on scientific realism, written by Richard Boyd, indicates that the modern concept owes its origin in part to Percy Williams Bridgman, who felt that the expression of scientific concepts was often abstract and unclear. Inspired by Ernst Mach, in 1914 Bridgman attempted to redefine unobservable entities concretely in terms of the physical and mental operations used to measure them. Accordingly, the definition of each unobservable entity was uniquely identified with the instrumentation used to define it. From the beginning objections were raised to this approach, in large part around the inflexibility. As Boyd notes, \"In actual, and apparently reliable, scientific practice, changes in the instrumentation associated with theoretical terms are routine, and apparently crucial to the progress of science. According to a 'pure' operationalist conception, these sorts of modifications would not be methodologically acceptable, since \"each\" definition must be considered to identify a \"unique\" 'object' (or class of objects).\" However, this rejection of operationalism as a general project destined ultimately to define all experiential phenomena uniquely did not mean that operational definitions ceased to have any practical use or that they could not be applied in particular cases.\n\nThe special theory of relativity can be viewed as the introduction of operational definitions for simultaneity of events and of distance, that is, as providing the operations needed to define these terms.\n\nIn quantum mechanics the notion of operational definitions is closely related to the idea of observables, that is, definitions based upon what can be measured.\n\nOperational definitions are often most challenging in the fields of psychology and psychiatry, where intuitive concepts, such as intelligence need to be operationally defined before they become amenable to scientific investigation, for example, through processes such as IQ tests.\n\nOn October 15, 1970, the West Gate Bridge in Melbourne, Australia collapsed, killing 35 construction workers. The subsequent enquiry found that the failure arose because engineers had specified the supply of a quantity of \"flat steel plate.\" The word \"flat\" in this context lacked an operational definition, so there was no test for accepting or rejecting a particular shipment or for controlling quality.\n\nIn his managerial and statistical writings, W. Edwards Deming placed great importance on the value of using operational definitions in all agreements in business. As he said:\n\nOperational, in a process context, also can denote a working method or a philosophy that focuses principally on cause and effect relationships (or stimulus/response, behavior, etc.) of specific interest to a particular domain at a particular point in time. As a working method, it does not consider issues related to a domain that are more general, such as the ontological, etc.\n\nScience uses computing. Computing uses science. We have seen the development of Computer Science. There are not many who can bridge all three of these. One effect is that, when results are obtained using a computer, the results can be impossible to replicate if the code is poorly documented, contains errors, or if parts are omitted entirely. \n\nMany times, issues are related to persistence and clarity of use of variables, functions, and so forth. Also, systems dependence is an issue. In brief, length (as a standard) has matter as its definitional basis. What pray tell can be used when standards are to be computationally framed?\n\nHence, operational definition can be used within the realm of the interactions of humans with advanced computational systems. In this sense, one area of discourse deals with computational thinking in, and with how it might influence, the sciences. To quote the American Scientist: \n\nOne referenced project pulled together fluid experts, including some who were expert in the numeric modeling related to computational fluid dynamics, in a team with computer scientists. Essentially, it turned out that the computer guys did not know enough to weigh in as much as they would have liked. Thus, their role, to their chagrin, many times was \"mere\" programmer.\n\nSome knowledge-based engineering projects experienced similarly that there is a trade-off between trying to teach programming to a domain expert versus getting a programmer to understand the intricacies of a domain. That, of course, depends upon the domain. In short, any team member has to decide which side of the coin to spend one's time.\n\nThe International Society for Technology in Education has a brochure detailing an \"operational definition\" of computational thinking. At the same time, the ISTE made an attempt at defining related skills.\n\nA recognized skill is tolerance for ambiguity and being able to handle open-ended problems. For instance, a knowledge-based engineering system can enhance its operational aspect and thereby its stability through more involvement by the subject matter expert, thereby opening up issues of limits that are related to being human. As in, many times, computational results have to be taken at face value due to several factors (hence the duck test's necessity arises) that even an expert cannot overcome. The end proof may be the final results (reasonable facsimile by simulation or artifact, working design, etc.) that are not guaranteed to be repeatable, may have been costly to attain (time and money), and so forth.\n\nIn advanced modeling, with the requisite computational support such as knowledge-based engineering, mappings must be maintained between a real-world object, its abstracted counterparts as defined by the domain and its experts, and the computer models. Mismatches between domain models and their computational mirrors can raise issues that are apropos to this topic. Techniques that allow the flexible modeling required for many hard problems must resolve issues of identity, type, etc. which then lead to methods, such as duck typing. Many domains, with a numerics focus, use limit theory, of various sorts, to overcome the duck test necessity with varying degrees of success. Yet, with that, issues still remain as representational frameworks bear heavily on what we can know.\n\nIn arguing for an object-based methodology, Peter Wegner suggested that \"positivist scientific philosophies, such as operationalism in physics and behaviorism in psychology\" were powerfully applied in the early part of the 20th century. However, computation has changed the landscape. He notes that we need to distinguish four levels of \"irreversible physical and computational abstraction\" (Platonic abstraction, computational approximation, functional abstraction, and value computation). Then, we must rely on interactive methods, that have behavior as their focus (see duck test).\n\nThe thermodynamic definition of temperature, due to Nicolas Léonard Sadi Carnot, refers to heat \"flowing\" between \"infinite reservoirs\". This is all highly abstract and unsuited for the day-to-day world of science and trade. In order to make the idea concrete, temperature is defined in terms of operations with the gas thermometer. However, these are sophisticated and delicate instruments, only adapted to the national standardization laboratory.\n\nFor day-to-day use, the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS) is used, defining temperature in terms of characteristics of the several specific sensor types required to cover the full range. One such is the electrical resistance of a thermistor, with specified construction, calibrated against operationally defined fixed points.\n\nElectric current is defined in terms of the force between two infinite parallel conductors, separated by a specified distance. This definition is too abstract for practical measurement, so a device known as a current balance is used to define the ampere operationally.\n\nUnlike temperature and electric current, there is no abstract physical concept of the hardness of a material. It is a slightly vague, subjective idea, somewhat like the idea of intelligence. In fact, it leads to three more specific ideas:\n\n\nOf these, indentation hardness itself leads to many operational definitions, the most important of which are:\n\n\nIn all these, a process is defined for loading the indenter, measuring the resulting indentation and calculating a hardness number. Each of these three sequences of measurement operations produces numbers that are consistent with our subjective idea of hardness. The harder the material to our informal perception, the greater the number it will achieve on our respective hardness scales. Furthermore, experimental results obtained using these measurement methods has shown that the hardness number can be used to predict the stress required to permanently deform steel, a characteristic that fits in well with our idea of resistance to permanent deformation. However, there is not always a simple relationship between the various hardness scales. Vickers and Rockwell hardness numbers exhibit qualitatively different behaviour when used to describe some materials and phenomena.\n\nThe constellation Virgo is a specific constellation of stars in the sky, hence the process of forming Virgo cannot be an operational definition, since it is historical and not repeatable. Nevertheless, the process whereby we locate Virgo in the sky \"is\" repeatable, so in this way, Virgo is operationally defined. In fact, Virgo can have any number of definitions (although we can never prove that we are talking about the \"same\" Virgo), and any number may be operational.\n\nNew academic disciplines appear in response to interdisciplinary activity at universities. An academic suggested the following operational definition for when a new discipline is recognized:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41105881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41105881", "title": "Phulwara oil", "text": "Phulwara oil\n\nPhulwara oil is extracted from seeds of Phulwara tree (Diploknema butyracea; family Sapotaceae). Phulwara Trees are also known locally as Chiuri Trees, Kaeleb Trees, or Butter Nut Trees. Refined Phulwara Oil is marketed as Phulwara Ghee.\n\nThe Phulwara Tree is a tree native to Nepal and adjoining areas of India. It grows in the sub-Himalayan tract between 300 and 1500 meters above sea level. \n\nThe tree also grows in the Andaman Islands.\n\nThe Phulwara is a medium-size deciduous tree with a straight trunk. It typically attains a height of 15 to 22 meters and a girth of 1.5 to 1.8 meters. In the Andaman Islands it can reach a height of 21 to 36 meters and a girth of 1.5 to 2.4 meters. In the hills of Kumaun, the tree attains a girth of 3 meters. The bark is dark grey or brown. The tree typically begins to yield fruits after five to nine years, reaching full potential in about fifteen years. It can yield fruits for fifty to sixty years.\n\nThe leaves form clusters at the end of branches that may be pink or white in color. Normally, they are elliptically shaped, and are 20 to 35 mm long by 9 to 18 cm width.\n\nThe flowers, which are 2.0 to 2.5 cm in diameter, are white or pale yellow in color and have a sweet fragrance.\n\nThe fruit is an oval shaped berry, 2.0 to 4.5 cm in diameter. The fruit has a bright shiny green or blackish skin. The pericarp is thick and soft. The fruit ripens during the months of May and August. The fruit is sweet and edible, containing 8.5% sugars & 5.6% crude fiber.\n\nThe seed constitutes twenty percent of the fruit. Typically three seeds are present in a single fruit. The seeds are black and sparkling, 1.5 to 2.0 cm in length, with an almond shaped white kernel containing saponins. The seed coat varies from thin to thick and woody to crusty. The seeds contain 42-47% oil and the kernel contains 60-66% oil. 100 seeds weigh approximately 78 grams. The average annual fruit yield per tree is about .\n\nRipened Phulwara fruits are collected by hand or by beating the plant with long bamboo sticks. The harvested fruits are dried in shade for eight to twelve days. Seeds can be separated from fruits either manually or mechanically. If the quantity of fruits is relatively small, the fruits are crushed manually and the seeds separated. For larger quantities, a roller machine is used for seed extraction. The machine sequences the fruit through trays, collecting fresh fruit at one end and the seeds at the lower end.\n\nOil is extracted from the kernel of Phulwara seeds. The outer shell of seeds is removed by adopting traditional or mechanical methods. In the traditional method, the seeds are boiled in water and softened seeds are placed on the floor and pressed until the kernels come out. In the mechanical system, the shell of the seed is removed by a decorticator machine.\n\nAfter cleaning and drying, the seeds are pounded into a fine powder using a traditional pounder called Dhiki. The powder is steamed on a perforated plate over a boiling pan. Oil is then extracted using a traditional oil expeller known locally as Chepuwa.\n\nThe oil has a bitter taste due to impurities such as saponins, which accompany the extracted fat. Post-extraction filtration or purification is necessary for the ghee to become edible.\n\nTable-Physical characters of oil\nComposition of fatty acids\n\nPhulwara oil contains 56.6% palmitic acid and 3.6% stearic acid, both of which are saturated fatty acids.It also contains 36.0% oleic acid along with 3.8% linoleic acid, both of which are unsaturated fatty acids. Oleic acid is a mono-unsaturated fatty acid and has one double bond at the 9th carbon of its hydrocarbon chain. Linoleic acid has two double bonds in the hydrocarbon chain of the acid.\n\nTable-physical and chemical characters of fat\n\nPhulwara ghee is the main source of edible oil for more than one hundred thousand people. The Ghee is used to cook vegetables and roti (Nepali bread).\n\nChiuri butter is used in confectionery, pharmaceutical, vegetable ghee production, candle manufacturing and soap making. It has been found to be effective for rheumatism. It is also used as an additive in animal ghee.\n\nDiploknema butyracea\n\nTrees of India\n"}
{"id": "247616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247616", "title": "Picnic", "text": "Picnic\n\nA picnic is a meal taken outdoors (\"al fresco\") as part of an excursion – ideally in scenic surroundings, such as a park, lakeside, or other place affording an interesting view, or else in conjunction with a public event such as preceding an open-air theatre performance, and usually in summer.\n\nPicnics are usually meant for the late mornings or midday breakfasts, but could also be held as a luncheonette or a dinner event.\nDescriptions of picnics show that the idea of a meal that was jointly contributed and was enjoyed out-of-doors was essential to a picnic from the early 19th century.\n\nPicnics are often family oriented but can also be an intimate occasion between two people or a large get together such as company picnics and church picnics. It is also sometimes combined with a cookout, usually a form of barbecue: either grilling (griddling, gridironing, or charbroiling), braising (by combining a charbroil or gridiron grill with a broth-filled pot), baking, or a combination of all of the above.\n\nOn romantic and family picnics, a picnic basket and a blanket (to sit or recline on) are usually brought along. Outdoor games or some other form of entertainment are common at large picnics. In established public parks, a picnic area generally includes picnic tables and possibly other items related to eating outdoors, such as built-in grills, water faucets, garbage containers, and restrooms.\n\nSome picnics are a potluck, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table for all to share. When the picnic is not also a cookout, the food eaten is rarely hot, instead taking the form of deli sandwiches, finger food, fresh fruit, salad, cold meats and accompanied by chilled wine or champagne or soft drinks.\n\nThe first usage of the word is traced to the 1692 edition of Tony Willis, \"Origines de la Langue Française\", which mentions \"pique-nique\" as being of recent origin; it marks the first appearance of the word in print. The term was used to describe a group of people dining in a restaurant who brought their own wine. The concept of a picnic long retained the connotation of a meal to which everyone contributed something. Whether \"picnic\" is actually based on the verb \"piquer\" which means 'pick' or 'peck' with the rhyming \"nique\" meaning \"thing of little importance\" is doubted; the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" says it is of unknown provenance.Though the provenance of the word ‘picnic’ is unknown, it is believed to come from the French ‘pique-nique’, which referred to people who brought their own wine while dining at a restaurant.\n\nPicnicking was common in France after the French Revolution, when it became possible for ordinary people to visit and mingle in the country’s royal parks. In 18th and 19th centuries, picnics were elaborate social events with complex meals and fancy drinks that sometimes took days to prepare.\n\nThe word \"picnic\" first appeared in English in a letter of the Gallicized Lord Chesterfield in 1748 (\"OED\"), who associates it with card-playing, drinking and conversation, and may have entered the English language from this French word. The practice of an elegant meal eaten out-of-doors, rather than an agricultural worker's dinner in a field, was connected with respite from hunting from the Middle Ages; the excuse for the pleasurable outing of 1723 in François Lemoyne's painting (\"illustration, left\") is still offered in the context of a hunt.\n\nThough it may have appeared in a 17th-century dictionary as \"pique-nique,\" the actual usage began as \"pique un niche\" meaning to \"pick a place,\" an isolated spot (a nest) where family or friends could enjoy a jolly meal together away from the distractions, demands, and public nature of a communal life. The term morphed into \"pique-nique\" and after years of usage entered the official French language.\n\nDespite having been thoroughly debunked, a spurious etymology linking the origin of the word to lynchings of African-Americans in the American South continues to resurface from time to time.\n\nAfter the French Revolution in 1789, royal parks became open to the public for the first time. Picnicking in the parks became a popular activity amongst the newly enfranchised citizens.\n\nEarly in the 19th century, a fashionable group of Londoners (including Edwin Young) formed the 'Picnic Society'. Members met in the Pantheon on Oxford Street. Each member was expected to provide a share of the entertainment and of the refreshments with no one particular host. Interest in the society waned in the 1850s as the founders died.\n\nFrom the 1830s, Romantic American landscape painting of spectacular scenery often included a group of picnickers in the foreground. An early American illustration of the picnic is Thomas Cole's \"The Pic-Nic\" of 1846 (Brooklyn Museum of Art). In it, a guitarist serenades the genteel social group in the Hudson River Valley with the Catskills visible in the distance. Cole's well-dressed young picnickers having finished their repast, served from splint baskets on blue-and-white china, stroll about in the woodland and boat on the lake.\n\nThe image of picnics as a peaceful social activity can be utilised for political protest, too. In this context, a picnic functions as a temporary occupation of significant public territory. A famous example of this is the Pan-European Picnic held on both sides of the Hungarian/Austrian border on the 19 August 1989 as part of the struggle towards German reunification.\n\nIn 2000, a 600-mile-long picnic took place from coast to coast in France to celebrate the first Bastille Day of the new Millennium. In the United States, likewise, the 4 July celebration of American independence is a popular day for a picnic. In Italy, the favorite picnic day is Easter Monday.\n\n\n\"The Rat brought the boat alongside the bank, tied it up, helped awkward Mole safely ashore, and swung out the picnic basket. The Mole begged to be allowed to unpack it all by himself. He took out all the mysterious packets one by one and arranged their contents, gasping 'Oh my! Oh my!' at each fresh surprise.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57494492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57494492", "title": "Pink tax", "text": "Pink tax\n\nThe pink tax is a phenomenon often attributed as a form of gender-based price discrimination, with the name stemming from the observation that many of the affected products are pink. Products marketed specifically toward women are generally more expensive than those marketed for men, despite either gender's choice to purchase either product. The NYC Department of Consumer Affairs conducted a study that concludes that women's products are typically more expensive than men's for often reasonable cause. There are many causes of this discrepancy, including the tampon tax, product differentiation, and the belief that women are less price elastic than men.\n\nProducts marketed specifically toward women cost on average 7% more than products marketed toward men, according to a New York City Department of Consumer Affairs study. This discrepancy applies to apparel, toys, and healthcare products, among other things. In the toy sector, girls' toys cost on average 7% more than boys' toys. The study talked about a side-by-side comparison of a Radio Flyer scooter where the red scooter costs $24.99 and a pink scooter, identical in all ways but color, costs $49. In children's apparel, girls' clothes were 4% more expensive than boys. Men's clothing was 8% less expensive than women's clothes. The largest discrepancy came to personal care/hygiene products, where women's products cost 13% more than men's. The study found women's products often being smaller in volume.\n\nThere are many reasons why the pink tax exists, including tariffs, product discrimination, and product differentiation. Clothing made for women and men are taxed at different levels when first entering the United States. While some tariffs are higher for men's clothing, others are higher for women's. In 2018, clothing companies sought to get tariffs on clothing removed. Their reasoning suggested these tariffs, while enlarging the gender gap, also put clothing companies at a disadvantage when operating overseas, but only in certain types of clothing. They maintained that those tariffs hurt the clothing industry.\n\nProduct differentiation can account for a portion of the difference between prices of men's goods and women's goods. Products like the Radio Flyer scooter may cost more due to the cost of slightly changing the product. For example, a pink scooter may cost more than a red scooter because it is more expensive to paint a scooter pink than red- assumedly, such a large difference for this reason of production would be because the red scooters are the larger production, and pink scooters are in the minority. They may also be seen as more of a \"special edition\", like camo-print trampolines. This also applies to services like haircuts or dry cleaning. Oftentimes, women's haircuts cost more than men's. Salons say that, because women's haircuts can involve more time and are labor-intensive than men's, they need to price haircuts for women higher than for men. In dry cleaning, men's clothing tends to be more uniform, women's clothing has a lot of variability which can make it harder to clean. Women's clothes are often smaller and more tapered, which means they are not suited for pressing machines at the dry cleaners.\n\nThe reason those who campaign against the pink tax claim it to be so problematic is alleged product discrimination. Critics say women's and men's razors are essentially the same and distinguishing between them is simply a marketing strategy. While the physical difference between a men's razor and a women's razor is minimal, the difference in marketing those products is large. Marketers have found that women are less price sensitive than men, meaning that they are generally willing to pay higher prices for goods than men. Other examples of marketers acting on price discrimination are student or senior discounts, allowing people who are more sensitive to price to pay less in order to gain their business. Airline ticket prices in advance compared to last-minute prices are another example. People who have a greater need to buy a product are often willing to pay much more, leading to price discrimination. Women are often subjected to this in the tampon and sanitary napkin market. These are products that women absolutely must buy, so they can be priced as high as a marketer would want and they would still sell their entire product. To marketers, women are less price elastic, meaning they care less about the price of a product or service. Manufacturers and marketers exploit this, resulting in prices of women's goods and services being higher.\n\nIn the US, there is no specialized tax on tampons. In states where sales taxes are collected, tampons are taxed in much the same way as most other non-exempt items (such as toilet paper and toothpaste). There has been a recent push to carve out a special tax-exempt status for tampons.\n\nAustralia, Canada, and Britain have voted on legislation to create special tax exemptions for tampons, but none have become law. India has recently scrapped tampon tax.\n\nThe economic impact of the pink tax is that women have less buying power, especially paired with the gender-based pay gap. Buying power relates to the amount of goods and services a person can buy, given current prices and available income to spend. The wage gap already puts women at a disadvantage when it comes to buying power. Women currently make a statistical average 89 cents for every $1 a man earns in the United States due to differences in work choices, meaning women statistically, on average, have less income to spend on goods and services. This alone gives men more money and, ultimately, more buying power. The pink tax further contributes to the economic inequality between men and women. Paying more for goods just because they are marketed to women when women already earn less than men means men hold the majority of the buying power in the economy. Taxes on feminine hygiene products that men don't have to buy further contributes to this discrepancy.\n\nRepresentative Jackie Speier was a member of the California state Senate from 1998-2006. In 2008 she was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, representing California's 14th Electoral District, which includes most of San Mateo County and part of San Francisco County. She has held her position in Congress. Speier, a Democrat, is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. In 2018, she introduced H.R. 5464, the Pink Tax Repeal Act, to end gender-based discrimination in the pricing of goods and services. This followed her introduction of an earlier version of the bill two years earlier.\n\nOn July 8, 2016, Speier introduced H.R. 5686, Pink Tax Repeal Act, to the House floor. She was the bill's primary sponsor. This was widely considered an early version of the bill. It was been revised and edited over the succeeding two years.\n\nOn April 10, 2018 Speier introduced a revised version of the Pink Tax Repeal Act, H.R.5464. The 115th Congress (2017-2018) was expected to review the acts's 2018 version. Skopos Labs, a technology company that predicts risks and opportunities, gave the bill a 1% chance of being enacted. The overall intention of the Pink Tax Repeal Act is to end gender-based price discrimination. To accomplish this, the Pink Tax Repeal Act would mandate that any comparable products that are marketed toward men and women must be priced equally. Although Speier said she did not expect the bill to pass, she still tried to push forward the conversation about gender-based price discrimination in goods and services.\n\nWhile in the California state Assembly, Speier introduced Assembly Bill No. 1088, also known as the Gender Tax Repeal Act, in 1995. It was similar to the Pink Tax Repeal Act, except it focused on gender-based price discrimination in services. The bill stated that businesses such as tailors, barbers, hair stylists, dry cleaners and laundries would not be permitted to discriminate for \"standard services\" due to a person’s gender or the gender the clothing is intended for, without a valid, prominently placed written justification. The bill passed and remains in effect. A similar bill was proposed soon after aimed at consumer goods, however it gained large opposition from manufacturing companies. The main opposition argument was that a bill proposed on goods would lead to litigation and price increases.\n\nCalifornia state Sen. Ben Hueso of San Diego proposed a new version of the Gender Tax Repeal Act, SB-899, in 2016, but withdrew the bill after pushback from industry lobbyists. It would have banned businesses in California from charging customers different prices for similar goods on the basis of gender.\n\nJennifer Boysko, a Democratic member of the Virginia state House of Delegates, in 2018 submitted HB 24, which would exempt menstrual supplies from sales and use taxes, in response to the Tampon Tax in Virginia.\n\nCriticism of the concept of a pink tax include the principle that the idea robs women of agency and choice by suggesting that women are so easily brainwashed by marketing that they are prevented from choosing the lesser priced but otherwise \"identical\" male-marketed alternative. If it were truly identical to the female-marketed variety, there would be no reason not to buy the cheaper variety. Instead, critics have attributed the pricing disparity to market forces, and stated that if women continue to buy a more expensive pink razor, it is because they see some utility or additional aesthetic that they are willing to pay for. That there are substantive differences in price indicates differences in marketability of different products, not necessarily a conspiracy against women.\n\nOpposition to the Pink Tax Repeal Act, came from retailers and manufacturers of women's products and clothing. Their chief argument is that the Pink Tax Repeal Act would be difficult to enforce and lawsuits would follow. The difference between men's and women's products is not always easy to see, they argue, so removing the pink tax would be subjective. They also alleged that the bill was unfriendly to domestic manufacturing jobs and that lowering the prices for women's products could lead to employee layoffs.\n\nRepublican opposition for a recall of the tampon tax in Virginia argued that tax discrimination against products for women needed to be sorted out by changing the general tax code. They added that they supported the elimination of sales taxes overall. Another opposition argument was that only disease-preventing hygiene products should be exempt from Virginia's sales tax and that feminine hygiene products did not prevent disease.\n\nThe satirical card game \"Cards Against Humanity\" released a \"For Her\" edition of its base set (which is exactly the same as the original except with pink-coloured packaging and a higher price) in 2017 as a satire of the pink tax, and in support of EMILY's List—a U.S. political action committee supporting female pro-choice Democratic candidates.\n"}
{"id": "22613807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22613807", "title": "Placebo in history", "text": "Placebo in history\n\nPlacebo in history is the account of the changing understanding of the phenomena of the placebo effect and term \"placebo\". \n\nThe word placebo was used in a medicinal context in the late 18th century to describe a \"commonplace method or medicine\" and in 1811 it was defined as \"any medicine adapted more to please than to benefit the patient\". Although this definition contained a derogatory implication it did not necessarily imply that the remedy had no effect.\n\nPlacebos have featured in medical use until well into the twentieth century. In 1955 Henry K. Beecher published an influential paper entitled \"The Powerful Placebo\" which proposed idea that placebo effects were clinically important. Subsequent re-analysis of his materials, however, found in them no evidence of any \"placebo effect\".\n\nThe word \"placebo\" itself originated from the Latin phrase for \"I shall please.\" It is in Latin text in the Bible (Psalm 114:9, Vulgate version by Jerome (116 in many modern editions), \"Placebo Domino in regione vivorum\", \"I shall please the Lord in the land of the living\"). Jerome translated as \"I shall please\" (placebo), the Hebrew word \"ethalech\", \"I shall walk with\" as in \"I shall be in step with\".\n\nThis word gave its name, placebo, to the Office of the Dead church service. From that, a \"singer of placebo\" became associated with someone who falsely claimed a connection to the deceased to get a share of the funeral meal, and hence a flatterer, and so a deceptive act to please.\n\nIn the practice of medicine it had been long understood that, as Ambroise Paré (1510–1590) had expressed it, the physician's duty was to \"cure occasionally, relieve often, console always\" (\"Guérir quelquefois, soulager souvent, consoler toujours\"). Accordingly, placebos were widespread in medicine until the 20th century, and were often endorsed as necessary deceptions.\n\nAccording to Nicholas Jewson, eighteenth century English medicine was gradually moving away from a model in which the patient had considerable interaction with the physician – and, through this consultative relationship, had an equal influence on the physician's therapeutic approach. It was moving towards a paradigm in which the patient became the recipient of a more standardized form of intervention that was determined by the prevailing opinions of the medical profession of the day.\n\nJewson characterized this as parallel to the changes that were taking place in the manner in which medical knowledge was being produced; namely, a transition from \"bedside medicine\", through to \"hospital medicine\", and finally to \"laboratory medicine\".\n\nThe last vestiges of the \"consoling\" approach to treatment were the prescription of \"morale-boosting\" and \"pleasing\" remedies, such as the \"sugar pill\", electuary or pharmaceutical syrup; all of which had no known pharmacodynamic action, even at the time. Those doctors who provided their patients with these sorts of morale-boosting therapies (which, while having no pharmacologically active ingredients, provided reassurance and comfort) did so either to reassure their patients while the \"Vis medicatrix naturae\" (i.e., \"the healing power of nature\") performed its normalizing task of restoring them to health, or to gratify their patients' need for an active treatment.\n\nIn 1811, Hooper's \"Quincy's Lexicon–Medicum\" defined placebo as \"an epithet given to any medicine adapted more to please than benefit the patient\". In 1903 Richard Cabot said that he was brought up to use placebos, but he ultimately concluded by saying that \"I have not yet found any case in which a lie does not do more harm than good.\"\n\nEarly implementations of placebo controls date back to 16th-century Europe with Catholic efforts to discredit exorcisms. Individuals who claimed to be possessed by demonic forces were given false holy objects. If the person reacted with violent contortions, it was concluded that the possession was purely imagination.\n\nUse of the placebo effect as a medical treatment has been controversial throughout history, and was common until the mid twentieth century. In 1903 Richard Cabot concluded that it should be avoided because it is deceptive. Newman points out the \"placebo paradox\" – it may be unethical to use a placebo, but also unethical \"\"not\" to use something that heals\". He suggests to solve this dilemma by appropriating the meaning response in medicine, that is make use of the placebo effect, as long as the \"one administering... is honest, open, and believes in its potential healing power\".\n\nJohn Haygarth was the first to investigate the efficacy of the placebo effect in the 18th century. He tested a popular medical treatment of his time, called \"Perkins tractors\", and concluded that the remedy was ineffectual by demonstrating that the results from a \"dummy\" remedy were just as useful as from the alleged \"active\" remedy.\n\nÉmile Coué, a French pharmacist, working as an apothecary at Troyes between 1882 and 1910, also advocated the effectiveness of the \"Placebo Effect\". He became known for reassuring his clients by praising each remedy's efficiency and leaving a small positive notice with each given medication. His book \"Self-Mastery Through Conscious Autosuggestion\" was published in England (1920) and in the United States (1922).\n\nPlacebos remained widespread in medicine until the 20th century, and they were sometimes endorsed as necessary deceptions. In 1903, Richard Cabot said that he was brought up to use placebos, but he ultimately concluded by saying that \"I have not yet found any case in which a lie does not do more harm than good\".\n\nT. C. Graves first defined the \"placebo effect\" in a published paper in \"The Lancet\" in 1920. He spoke of \"the placebo effects of drugs\" being manifested in those cases where \"a real psychotherapeutic effect appears to have been produced\".\n\nThe first to recognize and demonstrate the placebo effect was English physician John Haygarth in 1799. He tested a popular medical treatment of his time, called \"Perkins tractors\", which were metal pointers supposedly able to 'draw out' disease. They were sold at the extremely high price of five guineas, and Haygarth set out to show that the high cost was unnecessary. He did this by comparing the results from \"dummy\" wooden tractors with a set of allegedly \"active\" metal tractors, and published his findings in a book \"On the Imagination as a Cause & as a Cure of Disorders of the Body\".\n\nThe wooden pointers were just as useful as the expensive metal ones, showing \"to a degree which has never been suspected, what powerful influence upon diseases is produced by mere imagination\". While the word placebo had been used since 1772, this is the first real demonstration of the placebo effect.\nIn modern times the first to define and discuss the \"placebo effect\" was T.C Graves, in a published paper in \"The Lancet\" in 1920. He spoke of \"the placebo effects of drugs\" being manifested in those cases where \"a real psychotherapeutic effect appears to have been produced\".\n\nAt the Royal London Hospital in 1933, William Evans and Clifford Hoyle experimented with 90 subjects and published studies which compared the outcomes from the administration of an active drug and a dummy simulator (\"placebo\") in the same trial. The experiment displayed no significant difference between drug treatment and placebo treatment, leading the researchers to conclude that the drug exerted no specific effects in relation to the conditions being treated.\n\nIn 1946, the Yale biostatistician and physiologist E. Morton Jellinek described the \"placebo reaction\" or \"response\". He probably used the terms \"placebo response\" and \"placebo reaction\" as interchangeable. Henry K. Beecher's 1955 paper \"The Powerful Placebo\" was the first to use the term \"placebo effect\", which he contrasts with drug effects.\n\nIn 1961, Beecher reported that patients of 'enthusiastic' surgeons experienced greater levels of chest pain relief than those receiving treatment from skeptic surgeons.\n\nIn 1961 Walter Kennedy introduced the word nocebo to refer to a neutral substance that creates harmful effects in a patient who takes it.\n\nIn 1961 Henry K. Beecher concluded that surgeons he categorized as enthusiasts relieved their patients' chest pain and heart problems more than skeptic surgeons. Beginning in the 1960s, the placebo effect became widely recognized and placebo-controlled trials became the norm in the approval of new medications.\n\nDylan Evans argues that placebos are linked with activation of the acute-phase response so will work only on subjective conditions such as pain, swelling, stomach ulcers, depression, and anxiety that are linked to this.\n\nA 2001 systematic review of clinical trials concluded that there was no evidence of clinically important effects, except perhaps in the treatment of pain and continuous subjective outcomes. The authors later published a Cochrane review with similar conclusions (updated ). Most studies have attributed the difference from baseline until the end of the trial to a placebo effect, but the reviewers examined studies which had both placebo and untreated groups in order to distinguish the placebo effect from the natural progression of the disease.\n\nPlacebo observations differ between individuals. In the 1950s, there was considerable research to find whether there was a specific personality to those that responded to placebos. The findings could not be replicated and it is now thought to have no effect.\n\nThe word \"obecalp\", \"placebo\" spelled backwards, was coined by an Australian doctor in 1998 when he recognised the need for a freely available placebo. The word is sometimes used to make the use or prescription of fake medicine less obvious to the patient.\n\nIt has been suggested that a distinction exists between the placebo effect (which applies to a group) and the placebo response (which is individual).\n\nSome statements about the role of placebos in doctor patient relationship are:\n\n"}
{"id": "3454486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3454486", "title": "Primary polydipsia", "text": "Primary polydipsia\n\nPrimary polydipsia is a form of polydipsia characterised by excessive fluid intake in the absence of physiological stimuli to drink. This includes psychogenic polydipsia (PPD – not to be confused with postpartum depression), which is caused by psychiatric disorders, often schizophrenia, and often accompanied by the sensation of dry mouth. Some forms of primary polydipsia are explicitly non-psychogenic. Primary polydipsia is a diagnosis of exclusion.\n\nIn diagnosis, primary polydipsia is usually categorised as:\n\nThe terms primary polydipsia and psychogenic polydipsia are sometimes incorrectly used interchangeably – to be considered psychogenic, the patient needs to have some other psychiatric symptoms, such as delusions involving fluid intake or other unusual behaviours. Primary polydipsia may have physiological causes, such as autoimmune hepatitis.\n\nSince primary polydipsia is a diagnosis of exclusion, the diagnosis may be made for patients who have medically unexplained excessive thirst, and this is sometimes incorrectly referred to as \"psychogenic\" rather than \"primary\" polydipsia.\n\nAs a diagnosis of exclusion, a diagnosis of primary polydipsia may be the result of elimination of the possibility of diseases causing similar signs and symptoms, such as diabetes insipidus. Diagnosis may be complicated by the fact that chronic and extreme compulsive drinking may impair the response of the kidneys to vasopressin, thus reducing the kidney's ability to concentrate the urine. This means that psychogenic polydipsia may lead to test results (e.g. in a water restriction test) consistent with diabetes insipidus or SIADH, leading to misdiagnosis.\n\nDry mouth is often a side effect of medications used in the treatment of some mental disorders, rather than being caused by the underlying condition. Such medications include antipsychotics, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, alpha agonists and anticholinergics. It should also be ensured that the thirst isn't caused by diuretic use (particularly thiazide diuretics), MDMA use, excessive solute intake or chronic alcoholism. Alcoholism may cause physiological thirst since ethanol inhibits vasopressin, the hormone primarily responsible for water retention in osmoregulation. The following conditions should also be excluded: DI, cerebral salt wasting, pseudohyponatraemia caused by hyperlipidemia or hyperparaproteinemia, SIADH, mineralcorticoid deficiency, salt-wasting nephropathy, nephrotic syndrome, chronic heart failure and cirrhosis.\n\nTobacco smoking is an often overlooked factor linked to hyponatremia, due to the ADH-releasing effect of nicotine, although this is usually limited to heavy smokers. One study suggested that around 70% of patients with self-induced polydipsia were tobacco smokers. Diagnostic tests for primary polydipsia usually involves the fluid deprivation test to exclude ADH problems. The desmopressin test is also used, in which the synthetic hormone is used as a diagnostic workup to test for inappropriate secretion of vasopressin, as seen in DI and SIADH.\n\nPsychogenic polydipsia is found in patients with mental illnesses, most commonly schizophrenia, but also anxiety disorders and rarely affective disorders, anorexia nervosa and personality disorders. PPD occurs in between 6% and 20% of psychiatric inpatients. It may also be found in people with developmental disorders, such as those with autism. While psychogenic polydipsia is usually not seen outside the population of those with serious mental disorders, it may occasionally be found among others in the absence of psychosis, although there is no existent research to document this other than anecdotal observations. Such persons typically prefer to possess bottled water that is ice-cold, consume water and other fluids at excessive levels. However, a preference for ice-cold water is also seen in diabetes insipidus.\n\nPsychogenic polydipsia individuals with schizophrenia is associated with differences seen in neuroimaging. MRI scans may be used to help with differentiating between PPD and diabetes insipidus, such as by examining the signal of the posterior pituitary (weakened or absent in \"central\" DI). Some patients, most often with a history of mental illness, show a shrunken cortex and enlarged ventricles on an MRI scan, which makes differentiation between psychogenic and physiological cause difficult. However, these changes will likely only develop after chronic PPD associated with severe mental illness, as opposed to less severe forms of the disorder as seen in those with anxiety and affective disorders. PPD is also linked with significant reductions in insular cortex volume, although this may be caused by the secondary hyponatraemia. It has been suggested that these deficits lead to moderate to severe cognitive impairments, especially affecting working memory, verbal memory, executive function, attention and motor speed.\n\nOther areas with volume reductions (both white and grey matter) include:\n\nSigns and symptoms of psychogenic polydipsia include:\nThe most common presenting symptom is tonic-clonic seizure, found in 80% of patients. Psychogenic polydipsia should be considered a life-threatening condition, since it has been known to cause severe hyponatraemia, leading to cardiac arrest, coma and cerebral oedema. It can also cause central pontine myelinolysis.\n\nTreatment for psychogenic polydipsia depends on severity and may involve behavioural and pharmacological modalities.\n\nIf the patient presents with acute hyponatraemia (overhydration) caused by psychogenic polydipsia, treatment usually involves administration of intravenous hypertonic (3%) saline until the serum sodium levels stabilise to within a normal range, even if the patient becomes asymptomatic.\n\nIf the patient is institutionalised, monitoring of behaviour and serum sodium levels is necessary. In treatment-resistant polydipsic psychiatric patients, regulation in the inpatient setting can be accomplished by use of a weight-water protocol. First, base-line weights must be established and correlated to serum sodium levels. Weight will normally fluctuate during the day, but as the water intake of the polydipsic goes up, the weight will naturally rise. The physician can order a stepped series of interventions as the weight rises. The correlation must be individualized with attention paid to the patient's normal weight and fluctuations, diet, comorbid disorders (such as a seizure disorder) and urinary system functioning. Progressive steps might include redirection, room restriction, and increasing levels of physical restraint with monitoring. Such plans should also include progressive increases in monitoring, as well as a level at which a serum sodium level is drawn.\n\nBehavioural treatments may involve the use of a token economy to provide positive reinforcement to desirable behaviour. Furthermore, cognitive therapy techniques can be used to address the thought patterns that lead to compulsive drinking behaviour. Success has been seen in trials of this technique, with emphasis on the development of coping techniques (e.g. taking small sips of water, having ice cubes instead of drinks) in addition to challenging delusions leading to excessive drinking.\n\nPsychogenic polydipsia often leads to institutionalisation of mentally ill patients, since it is difficult to manage in the community. Most studies of behavioural treatments occur in institutional settings and require close monitoring of the patient and a large degree of time commitment from staff.\n\nA number of pharmaceuticals may be used in an attempt to bring the polydipsia under control, including:\nThere are a number of emerging pharmaceutical treatments for psychogenic polydipsia, although these need further investigation:\nLithium was previously used for treatment of PPD as a direct competitive ADH agonist, but is now generally avoided due to its toxic effects on the thyroid and kidneys.\n\nIt is important to note that the majority of psychotropic drugs (and a good many of other classes) can cause dry mouth as a side effect, but this is not to be confused with true polydipsia in which a dangerous drop in serum sodium will be seen.\n\nAlthough primary polydipsia is usually categorised as psychogenic, there are some rare non-psychogenic causes. An example is polydipsia found in patients with autoimmune chronic hepatitis with severely elevated globulin levels. Evidence for the thirst being non-psychogenic is gained from the fact that it disappears after treatment of the underlying disease.\n\nPsychogenic polydipsia is also observed in some non-human patients, such as in rats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33826254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33826254", "title": "Program for Jewish Genetic Health", "text": "Program for Jewish Genetic Health\n\nThe Program for Jewish Genetic Health is a centralized resource for the Jewish community, addressing all health concerns related to the medical genetics of the Jewish people. The Program's stated mission is to protect the health of the current Jewish community and its future generations. Launched in 2011, the Program for Jewish Genetic Health integrates the social mission the Montefiore Health System with the clinical services, genetic education, and biomedical advances of its medical school, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine.\n\nThe Program for Jewish Genetic Health has three main objectives: \n\nAbout one in four Ashkenazi Jews carries a genetic alteration associated with a recessive “Jewish genetic disease.” Many of these diseases have the potential to be severely debilitating and even fatal. A child must inherit altered genes for a given disease from both parents to have the disease. Genetic testing can identify individuals who themselves are asymptomatic carriers, but whose children may be at risk. Community-based screening for Tay-Sachs disease is considered by many to be one of the most successful public health initiatives in medical history. Although this has resulted in a near eradication of the disease from the Jewish population, the disease-causing genetic alterations still are present, and screening still is necessary in every generation.\n\nCarrier screening for many Jewish genetic disorders has become standard of care. As technology advances, so does the number of disorders for which screening is available. In addition, studies suggest that consumers desire more reproductive genetic testing, particularly for diseases that wil result in death by the age of 5.\n\nIn the traditional medical model, screening for the Jewish genetic diseases usually is recommended by a woman’s obstetrician/gynecologist once the woman is contemplating a pregnancy or already pregnant. As an alternative model, community-based carrier screening programs have been established nationwide. In addition to spreading further awareness about genetic health issues, screening programs allow for carriers to be identified prior to pregnancy, and even prior to picking a future marriage partner. This enables them to have the largest number of options when considering their future families. Since health insurance policies do not universally cover the complete cost of this genetic testing, many screening programs rely on philanthropic dollars to ensure that no one is turned away due to financial barriers.\n\nThe Program for Jewish Genetic Health works with the Division of Reproductive Genetics at Montefiore Medical Center to screen individuals of child-bearing age in the New York metropolitan area. Screening appointments at Montefiore, which include private genetic counseling sessions, are open to the community and subsidies are provided to those who are uninsured or under-insured.\n\nThe Program for Jewish Genetic Health offers educational programs - both live and online - to various sectors of the community to educate them on Jewish genetic health issues, including the Ashkenazi Jewish link to breast and ovarian cancer, Parkinson's disease and prostate cancer, as well as alternative family planning options such as pre-implantation genetic diagnosis.\n\nIn May 2013, the program launched the MyJewishGeneticHealth.com Online Educational Series to provide the Jewish community with effective and accessible learning via online webinars and supplemental materials. MyJewishGeneticHealth.com is composed of individual \"lessons,\" based on their current relevance to Jewish genetic health issues, from diseases and conditions to related treatments and ethical issues.\n\nProgram leaders also present symposia to rabbis and other Jewish leadership to provide guidance on how genetics relates to engagement and marriage and how leadership can counsel congregants through potential and actual affected pregnancies, as well as to provide applicable referrals if necessary.\n\nThe Program for Jewish Genetic Health provides a place for Jews to be able to access resources relevant to Jewish genetic health issues and solutions, from clinical programs to support groups to educational material. Program staff consist of board certified obstetricians and gynecologists, geneticists and genetic counselors who can provide guidance and answer questions about the relationship between once's Ashkenazi Jewish heritage and a host of medical conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "35709604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35709604", "title": "Public health nursing", "text": "Public health nursing\n\nPublic health nursing, a term coined by Lillian Wald of the Henry Street Settlement, or community health nursing, is a nursing specialty focused on public health. Public health nurses (PHNs) or community health nurses \"integrate community involvement and knowledge about the entire population with personal, clinical understandings of the health and illness experiences of individuals and families within the population.\" Public health nursing in the United States traces back to a nurse named Lillian Wald who, in 1893, established the Henry Street Settlement in New York City and coined the expression \"public health nurse\".\n\nPublic health nurses work within communities and focus on different areas to improve the overall health of the people within that community. Some areas of employment for public health nurses are school districts, county or state health departments, and departments of correction. The public health nurse looks for areas of concern within the community and assesses and plans ways through which the concerns can be resolved or minimized. Some health concerns a public health nurse may work on are infection control, health maintenance, health coaching, as well as home care visits for welfare and to provide care to certain members of the community who may need it.\n\n"}
{"id": "33775893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33775893", "title": "Rainfed agriculture", "text": "Rainfed agriculture\n\nThe term Rainfed agriculture is used to describe farming practices that rely on rainfall for water. It provides much of the food consumed by poor communities in developing countries. For example, rainfed agriculture accounts for more than 95% of farmed land in sub-Saharan Africa, 90% in Latin America, 75% in the Near East and North Africa; 65% in East Asia and 60% in South Asia.\n\nLevels of productivity, particularly in parts of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, are low due to degraded soils, high levels of evaporation, droughts, floods and a general lack of effective water management. A major study into water use by agriculture, known as the Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture, coordinated by the International Water Management Institute, noted a close correlation between hunger, poverty and water. However, it concluded that there was much opportunity to raise productivity from rainfed farming.\n\nThe authors considered that managing rainwater and soil moisture more effectively, and using supplemental and small-scale irrigation, held the key to helping the greatest number of poor people. It called for a new era of water investments and policies for upgrading rainfed agriculture that would go beyond controlling field-level soil and water to bring new freshwater sources through better local management of rainfall and runoff.\n\nThe importance of rainfed agriculture varies regionally but produces most food for poor communities in developing countries. In subSaharan Africa more than 95% of the farmed land is rainfed, while the corresponding figure for Latin America is almost 90%, for South Asia about 60%, for East Asia 65% and for the Near East and North Africa 75%. Most countries in the world depend primarily on rainfed agriculture for their grain food. Despite large strides made in improving productivity and environmental conditions in many developing\ncountries, a great number of poor families in Africa and Asia still face poverty, hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition where rainfed agriculture is the main agricultural activity. These problems are exacerbated by adverse biophysical growing conditions and the poor socioeconomic infrastructure in many areas in the semi-arid tropics (SAT). The SAT is the home to 38% of the developing countries’ poor, 75% of whom live in rural areas. Over 45% of the world’s hungry and more than 70% of its malnourished children live in the SAT\nThere is a correlation between poverty, hunger and water stress. The UN Millennium Development Project has identified the ‘hot spot’ countries in the world suffering from the largest prevalence of malnourishment. These countries coincide closely with those located in the semi-arid and dry subhumid hydroclimates in the world (Fig. 1.1), i.e. savannahs and steppe ecosystems, where rainfed agriculture is the dominating source of food and where water constitutes a key limiting factor to crop growth. Of the 850 million undernourished people in the world, essentially all live in poor, developing countries, which predominantly are located in tropical regions.\nSince the late 1960s, agricultural land use has expanded by 20–25%, which has contributed to approximately 30% of the overall grain production growth during the period. The remaining yield outputs originated from intensification through yield increases per unit land area. However, the regional variation is large, as is the difference between irrigated and rainfed agriculture. In developing countries rainfed grain yields are on average 1.5 t/ha, compared with 3.1 t/ha for irrigated yields (Rosegrant et al., 2002), and increase in production from rainfed agriculture has mainly originated from land expansion.\nTrends are clearly different for different regions. With 99% rainfed production of main cereals such as maize, millet and sorghum, the cultivated cereal area in sub-Saharan Africa has doubled since 1960 while the yield per unit of land has been nearly stagnant for these staple crops (FAOSTAT, 2005). In South Asia, there has been a major shift away from more drought-tolerant, low-yielding crops such as sorghum and millet, while wheat and maize hasapproximately doubled in area since 1961 (FAOSTAT, 2005). During the same period, the yield per unit of land for maize and wheat has more than doubled (Fig. 1.2). For predominantly rainfed systems, maize crops per unit of\nland have nearly tripled and wheat more than doubled during the same time period. Rainfed maize yield differs substantially\nbetween regions (Fig. 1.2a). In Latin America (including the Caribbean) it exceeds 3 t/ha, while in South Asia it is around 2 t/ha and in subSaharan Africa it only just exceeds 1 t/ha. This can be compared with maize yields in the USA or southern Europe, which normally amount to\napproximately 7–10 t/ha (most maize in these regions is irrigated). The average regional yield per unit of land for wheat in Latin America\n(including the Caribbean) and South Asia is similar to the average yield output of 2.5–2.7 t/ha in North America (Fig. 1.2b). In comparison, wheat yield in Western Europe is approximately twice as large (5 t/ha), while in sub-Saharan Africa it remains below 2 t/ha. In view of the historic regional difference in development of yields, there appears to exist a significant potential for raised yields in rainfed agriculture, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.\nRural development through sustainable management of land and water resources gives a plausible solution for alleviating rural poverty and improving the livelihoods of the rural poor.\nIn an effective convergence mode for improving the rural livelihoods in the target districts,\nwith watersheds as the operational units, a holistic integrated systems approach by drawing attention to the past experiences, existing\nopportunities and skills, and supported partnerships can enable change and improve the livelihoods of the rural poor. The well-being of the\nrural poor depends on fostering their fair and equitable access to productive resources. The rationale behind convergence through watersheds has been that these watersheds help in ‘cross-learning’ and drawing on a wide range of experiences from different sectors. A significant\nconclusion is that there should be a balance between attending to needs and priorities of rural livelihoods and enhancing positive directions of change by building effective and sustainable partnerships. Based on the experience and performance of the existing integrated community watersheds in different socioeconomic environments, appropriate exit strategies, which include proper sequencing of interventions, building up of financial, technical and organizational capacity of local communities to internalize and sustain interventions, and the requirement for any minimal external technical and organizational support needs to be identified.\n\nWhile absolute grain yield variations exist between different global locations as cited in this article, the potential for improved rain fed grain yields may be less than is suggested by a comparison between sub-Saharan and European locations for example, this applies particularly in areas where grain yield is primarily determined by the growing season rainfall. A more accurate formula for measuring yield potential is y x a = X, where X is grain yield in Kg/hectare, y is millimetres of growing season rainfall and a is the variable yield factor, a number that may vary somewhere between 5 and 20. Thus assuming a variable yield factor of 15 and a growing season rainfall of 220mm the formula would express as 220mm x 15 = 3300 kg/ha yield potential.\nThis formula, while not taking account of either the carryover benefits of stored rainfall in the soil profile resulting from out of season rainfall or the impact of temperature or soil fertility, still gives a more accurate picture of the degree to which actual grain yields are matching the region's potential yields and is a better basis for comparison between very different regions such as Europe and the sub-Sahara.\nA European yield of 5000 kg/ha from a rainfall of 500mm results in a variable yield factor of 10 while a yield of 2500 kg/ha in a 200mm rainfall area has a variable yield factor of 12.5, in such an example the lower yielding crop has actually been 25% more efficient in its rainfall utilisation than the higher yielding crop. Agronomy needs to be based on attaining the highest possible variable yield factor rather than the highest absolute yield, factor numbers as high as 17+ are achievable.\n\n"}
{"id": "20881341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20881341", "title": "Rare disease assumption", "text": "Rare disease assumption\n\nThe rare disease assumption is a mathematical assumption in epidemiologic case-control studies where the hypothesis tests the association between an exposure and a disease. It is assumed that, if the prevalence of the disease is low, then the odds ratio approaches the relative risk.\n\nCase control studies are relatively inexpensive and less time consuming than cohort studies. Since case control studies don't track patients over time, they can't establish relative risk. The case control study can, however, calculate the exposure-odds ratio, which, mathematically, is supposed to approach the relative risk as prevalence falls.\n\nSome authors state that if the prevalence is 10% or less, the disease can be considered rare enough to allow the rare disease assumption. Unfortunately, the magnitude of discrepancy between the odds ratio and the relative risk is dependent not only on the prevalence, but also, to a great degree, on two other factors.\n\nThe following example will illustrate this difficulty clearly. Consider a standard table showing the association between two binary variables with frequencies \"a\" = true positives = 49,005,929, \"b\" = false positives = 50,994,071, \"c\" = false negatives = 50,994,071 and \"d\" = true negatives = 849,005,929. In this case the odds ratio (OR) is equal to 16 and the relative risk (RR) is equal to 8.65. Although the prevalence in our example equals 10% it is very difficult to apply the rare disease assumption because OR and RR can hardly be considered to be approximately the same. However, in this example the disease is not particularly \"rare\"; a 10% prevalence value means 1 in 10 people would have it. As the prevalence drops lower and lower, OR approaches the RR much more closely. This is one of the most problematic aspects of the rare disease assumption, since there is no threshold prevalence below which a disease is considered \"rare\", and thus no strict guideline to determine when the assumption applies.\n\n"}
{"id": "7193625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7193625", "title": "Roy W. Menninger", "text": "Roy W. Menninger\n\nRoy Wright Menninger (born 1926) is an American doctor and psychiatrist. His father and family established the Menninger Foundation in 1925 in Topeka, Kansas. \n\nRoy Wright Menninger was born in 1926 as the first of three sons to William C. Menninger and his wife Catherine Wright, while they lived in New York. His father was completing an internship at Bellevue Hospital. The family returned to Topeka, Kansas in 1927, when his father joined the Menninger Clinic, with his brother Karl Menninger and father Charles Frederick Menninger. Roy grew up in the world of medicine and psychiatry.\n\nRoy became a doctor and psychiatrist, and joined his father and uncle at the Menninger Foundation, which became internationally known center for the treatment of behavioral disorders. \n\nIn 1967 he succeeded his father as President and CEO of the Menninger Foundation. He worked in that position until 1993, when he retired to become Chairman of Menninger Trustees.\n\n"}
{"id": "19019270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19019270", "title": "Sexually transmitted infection", "text": "Sexually transmitted infection\n\nSexually transmitted infections (STI), also referred to as sexually transmitted diseases (STD), are infections that are commonly spread by sexual activity, especially vaginal intercourse, anal sex and oral sex. Many times STIs initially do not cause symptoms. This results in a greater risk of passing the disease on to others. Symptoms and signs of disease may include vaginal discharge, penile discharge, ulcers on or around the genitals, and pelvic pain. STIs can be transmitted to an infant before or during childbirth and may result in poor outcomes for the baby. Some STIs may cause problems with the ability to get pregnant.\nMore than 30 different bacteria, viruses, and parasites can be transmitted through sexual activity. Bacterial STIs include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis. Viral STIs include genital herpes, HIV/AIDS, and genital warts. Parasitic STIs include trichomoniasis. While usually spread by sex, some STIs can be spread by non-sexual contact with donor tissue, blood, breastfeeding, or during childbirth. STI diagnostic tests are usually easily available in the developed world, but this is often not the case in the developing world.\nThe most effective way of preventing STIs is by not having sex. Some vaccinations may also decrease the risk of certain infections including hepatitis B and some types of HPV. Safer sex practices such as use of condoms, having a smaller number of sexual partners, and being in a relationship where each person only has sex with the other also decreases the risk. Circumcision in males may be effective to prevent some infections. During school, comprehensive sex education may also be useful. Most STIs are treatable or curable. Of the most common infections, syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis are curable, while herpes, hepatitis B, HIV/AIDS, and HPV are treatable but not curable. Resistance to certain antibiotics is developing among some organisms such as gonorrhea.\nIn 2015, about 1.1 billion people had STIs other than HIV/AIDS. About 500 million were infected with either syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia or trichomoniasis. At least an additional 530 million people have genital herpes and 290 million women have human papillomavirus. STIs other than HIV resulted in 108,000 deaths in 2015. In the United States there were 19 million new cases of sexually transmitted infections in 2010. Historical documentation of STIs date back to at least the Ebers papyrus around 1550 BC and the Old Testament. There is often shame and stigma associated with these infections. The term \"sexually transmitted infection\" is generally preferred over \"sexually transmitted disease\" or \"venereal disease\", as it includes those who do not have symptomatic disease.\n\nUntil the 1990s, STIs were commonly known as \"venereal diseases\", the word \"venereal\" being derived from the Latin word venereus, and meaning relating to sexual intercourse or desire, ultimately derived from Venus, the Roman goddess of love. STIs have been euphemistically referred to as \"blood diseases\" and \"social diseases\" in the past.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended the more inclusive term \"sexually transmitted infection\" since 1999. Public health officials originally introduced the term \"sexually transmitted infection\", which clinicians are increasingly using alongside the term \"sexually transmitted disease\" in order to distinguish it from the former.\nNot all STIs are symptomatic, and symptoms may not appear immediately after infection. In some instances a disease can be carried with no symptoms, which leaves a greater risk of passing the disease on to others. Depending on the disease, some untreated STIs can lead to infertility, chronic pain or death.\n\nThe presence of an STI in prepubescent children may indicate sexual abuse.\n\nA sexually transmitted infection present in a pregnant woman may be passed on to the infant before or after birth.\n\nThe risks and transmission probabilities of sexually transmitted diseases are summarized by act in the table:\n\n\n\n\n\nSexually transmitted infections include:\n\n\n\nTwenty-seven different viruses have been identified in semen. Information on whether or not transmission occurs or whether the viruses cause disease is uncertain. Some of these microbes are known to be sexually transmitted. Those found in semen are listed by the CDC.\n\nMicrobes known to be sexually transmissible (but not generally considered STDs/STIs) include:\n\nMany STIs are (more easily) transmitted through the mucous membranes of the penis, vulva, rectum, urinary tract and (less often—depending on type of infection) the mouth, throat, respiratory tract and eyes. The visible membrane covering the head of the penis is a mucous membrane, though it produces no mucus (similar to the lips of the mouth). Mucous membranes differ from skin in that they allow certain pathogens into the body. The amount of contact with infective sources which causes infection varies with each pathogen but in all cases, a disease may result from even light contact from fluid carriers like venereal fluids onto a mucous membrane.\n\nSome STIs such as HIV can be transmitted from mother to child either during pregnancy or breastfeeding.\n\nHealthcare professionals suggest safer sex, such as the use of condoms, as a reliable way of decreasing the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases during sexual activity, but safer sex cannot be considered to provide complete protection from an STI. The transfer of and exposure to bodily fluids, such as blood transfusions and other blood products, sharing injection needles, needle-stick injuries (when medical staff are inadvertently jabbed or pricked with needles during medical procedures), sharing tattoo needles, and childbirth are other avenues of transmission. These different means put certain groups, such as medical workers, and haemophiliacs and drug users, particularly at risk.\n\nIt is possible to be an asymptomatic carrier of sexually transmitted diseases. In particular, sexually transmitted diseases in women often cause the serious condition of pelvic inflammatory disease.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention strategies for reducing STD risk include: vaccination, mutual monogamy, reducing the number of sexual partners and abstinence.\n\nThe most effective way to prevent sexual transmission of STIs is to avoid contact of body parts or fluids which can lead to transfer with an infected partner. Not all sexual activities involve contact: cybersex, phonesex or masturbation from a distance are methods of avoiding contact. Proper use of condoms reduces contact and risk. Although a condom is effective in limiting exposure, some disease transmission may occur even with a condom.\n\nBoth partners can get tested for STIs before initiating sexual contact, or before resuming contact if a partner engaged in contact with someone else. Many infections are not detectable immediately after exposure, so enough time must be allowed between possible exposures and testing for the tests to be accurate. Certain STIs, particularly certain persistent viruses like HPV, may be impossible to detect with current medical procedures.\n\nSome treatment facilities utilize in-home test kits and have the person return the test for follow-up. Other facilities strongly encourage that those previously infected return to ensure that the infection has been eliminated. Novel strategies to foster re-testing have been the use of text messaging and email as reminders. These types of reminders are now used in addition to phone calls and letters. After obtaining a sexual history, a healthcare provider can encourage risk reduction by providing prevention counseling. Prevention counseling is most effective if provided in a nonjudgmental and empathetic manner appropriate to the person's culture, language, gender, sexual orientation, age, and developmental level. Prevention counseling for STIs is usually offered to all sexually active adolescents and to all adults who have received a diagnosis, have had an STI in the past year, or have multiple sex partners.\n\nUSPSTF recommends high-intensity behavioral counseling for all sexually active adolescents and for adults at increased risk for STIs. Such interactive counseling, which can be resource intensive, is directed at a person's risk, the situations in which risk occurs, and the use of personalized goal-setting strategies.\n\nVaccines are available that protect against some viral STIs, such as Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and some types of HPV. Vaccination before initiation of sexual contact is advised to assure maximal protection. The development of vaccines to protect against gonorrhea is ongoing.\n\nCondoms and female condoms only provide protection when used properly as a barrier, and only to and from the area that they cover. Uncovered areas are still susceptible to many STIs.\n\nIn the case of HIV, sexual transmission routes almost always involve the penis, as HIV cannot spread through unbroken skin; therefore, properly shielding the penis with a properly worn condom from the vagina or anus effectively stops HIV transmission. An infected fluid to broken skin borne direct transmission of HIV would not be considered \"sexually transmitted\", but can still theoretically occur during sexual contact. This can be avoided simply by not engaging in sexual contact when presenting open, bleeding wounds.\n\nOther STIs, even viral infections, can be prevented with the use of latex, polyurethane or polyisoprene condoms as a barrier. Some microorganisms and viruses are small enough to pass through the pores in natural skin condoms, but are still too large to pass through latex or synthetic condoms.\n\nProper male condom usage entails:\n\n\nIn order to best protect oneself and the partner from STIs, the old condom and its contents are be assumed to be infectious. Therefore, the old condom must be properly disposed of. A new condom is used for each act of intercourse, as multiple usage increases the chance of breakage, defeating the effectiveness as a barrier.\n\nIn case of female condoms, the device consists of two rings, one in each terminal portion. The larger ring should fit snugly over the cervix and the smaller ring remains outside the vagina, covering the vulva. This system provides some protection of the external genitalia.\n\nThe cap was developed after the cervical diaphragm. Both cover the cervix and the main difference between the diaphragm and the cap is that the latter must be used only once, using a new one in each sexual act. The diaphragm, however, can be used more than once. These two devices partially protect against STDs (they do not protect against HIV).\n\nResearchers had hoped that nonoxynol-9, a vaginal microbicide would help decrease STI risk. Trials, however, have found it ineffective and it may put women at a higher risk of HIV infection.\n\nSpecific age groups, persons who participate in risky sexual behavior, or those have certain health conditions may require screening. The CDC recommends that sexually active women under the age of 25 and those over 25 at risk should be screened for chlamydia and gonorrhea yearly. Appropriate times for screening are during regular pelvic examinations and preconception evaluations. Nucleic acid amplification tests are the recommended method of diagnosis for gonorrhea and chlamydia. This can be done on either urine in both men and women, vaginal or cervical swabs in women, or urethral swabs in men. Screening can be performed:\n\nTesting may be for a single infection, or consist of a number of tests for a range of STIs, including tests for syphilis, trichomonas, gonorrhea, chlamydia, herpes, hepatitis and HIV. No procedure tests for all infectious agents.\n\nSTI tests may be used for a number of reasons:\n\n\nEarly identification and treatment results in less chance to spread disease, and for some conditions may improve the outcomes of treatment. There is often a window period after initial infection during which an STI test will be negative. During this period, the infection may be transmissible. The duration of this period varies depending on the infection and the test. Diagnosis may also be delayed by reluctance of the infected person to seek a medical professional. One report indicated that people turn to the Internet rather than to a medical professional for information on STIs to a higher degree than for other sexual problems.\n\nIn the case of rape, the person can be treated prophylacticly with antibiotics.\n\nAn option for treating partners of patients (index cases) diagnosed with chlamydia or gonorrhea is patient-delivered partner therapy, which is the clinical practice of treating the sex partners of index cases by providing prescriptions or medications to the patient to take to his/her partner without the health care provider first examining the partner.\n\nIn 2008, it was estimated that 500 million people were infected with either syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia or trichomoniasis. At least an additional 530 million people have genital herpes and 290 million women have human papillomavirus. STIs other than HIV resulted in 142,000 deaths in 2013. In the United States there were 19 million new cases of sexually transmitted infections in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, 19 million new cases of sexually transmitted infections occurred in women in the United States. A 2008 CDC study found that 25–40% of U.S. teenage girls has a sexually transmitted disease.\n\nOver 400,000 sexually transmitted infections were reported in England in 2017, about the same as in 2016, but there were more than 20% increases in confirmed cases of gonorrhoea and syphilis. Since 2008 syphilis cases have risen by 148%, from 2,874 to 7,137, mostly among men who have sex with men. The number of first cases of genital warts in 2017 among girls aged 15–17 years was just 441, 90% less than in 2009 - attributed to the national human papilloma virus immunisation programme. \n\nAIDS is among the leading causes of death in present-day Sub-Saharan Africa. HIV/AIDS is transmitted primarily via unprotected sexual intercourse. More than 1.1 million persons are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, and it disproportionately impacts African Americans. Hepatitis B is also considered a sexually transmitted disease because it can be spread through sexual contact. The highest rates are found in Asia and Africa and lower rates are in the Americas and Europe. Approximately two billion people worldwide have been infected with the hepatitis B virus.\n\nThe first well-recorded European outbreak of what is now known as syphilis occurred in 1494 when it broke out among French troops besieging Naples in the Italian War of 1494–98. The disease may have originated from the Columbian Exchange. From Naples, the disease swept across Europe, killing more than five million people. As Jared Diamond describes it, \"[W]hen syphilis was first definitely recorded in Europe in 1495, its pustules often covered the body from the head to the knees, caused flesh to fall from people's faces, and led to death within a few months,\" rendering it far more fatal than it is today. Diamond concludes,\"[B]y 1546, the disease had evolved into the disease with the symptoms so well known to us today.\" Gonorrhoeae is recorded at least up to 700 years ago and associated with a district in Paris formerly known as \"Le Clapiers\". This is where the prostitutes were to be found at that time.\n\nPrior to the invention of modern medicines, sexually transmitted diseases were generally incurable, and treatment was limited to treating the symptoms of the disease. The first voluntary hospital for venereal diseases was founded in 1746 at London Lock Hospital. Treatment was not always voluntary: in the second half of the 19th century, the Contagious Diseases Acts were used to arrest suspected prostitutes. In 1924, a number of states concluded the Brussels Agreement, whereby states agreed to provide free or low-cost medical treatment at ports for merchant seamen with venereal diseases.\n\nThe first effective treatment for a sexually transmitted disease was salvarsan, a treatment for syphilis. With the discovery of antibiotics, a large number of sexually transmitted diseases became easily curable, and this, combined with effective public health campaigns against STDs, led to a public perception during the 1960s and 1970s that they have ceased to be a serious medical threat.\n\nDuring this period, the importance of contact tracing in treating STIs was recognized. By tracing the sexual partners of infected individuals, testing them for infection, treating the infected and tracing their contacts in turn, STI clinics could effectively suppress infections in the general population.\n\nIn the 1980s, first genital herpes and then AIDS emerged into the public consciousness as sexually transmitted diseases that could not be cured by modern medicine. AIDS in particular has a long asymptomatic period—during which time HIV (the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS) can replicate and the disease can be transmitted to others—followed by a symptomatic period, which leads rapidly to death unless treated. HIV/AIDS entered the United States from Haiti in about 1969. Recognition that AIDS threatened a global pandemic led to public information campaigns and the development of treatments that allow AIDS to be managed by suppressing the replication of HIV for as long as possible. Contact tracing continues to be an important measure, even when diseases are incurable, as it helps to contain infection.\n\nIn the 1996 sexual harassment case filed against Mitsubishi Motor Manufacturing of America by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), a number of male employees referred to sexually transmitted infections as \"souvenirs\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52640771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52640771", "title": "Sociality and disease transmission", "text": "Sociality and disease transmission\n\nThe effects of how social grouping strategies may reduce or increase the spread of disease is critical for the health of large groups of people. Places with large amounts of human interaction have a high risk for disease transmission. Social groups, community structures, and different cultures have different strategies and behaviors of reducing the spread of disease. Animals groups and humans that live in a place with high population density have an increased risk of disease prevalence. Some ways that large groups can help reduce the spread of disease is to have clean water supply and food supply. Also, another way groups can reduce spread of disease is through avoiding contact with individuals in the community that are ill.\n\nStudies have generated very mixed results regarding pathogen risk and prevalence in animal communities. One of the earliest measurements we have regarding a correlation between pathogen prevalence and animal social groups is with prairie dog wards. Hoogland, 1979, found in his study that as the size of the ward increased, the abundance of parasites in the burrow also increased. Several studies that followed in years since have also supported this finding that an increase in community size and density produces an increase of risk and prevalence of pathogenic infection. Vector-borne parasites as well as parasites transmitted by direct social contact appeared to correlate positively in number with the density of a population. In a recent meta-analysis of the data, Patterson and Ruckstahl (2013) confirmed that \"parasite intensity and prevalence both increased positively with group size…\" with the caveat of mobile parasites, which displayed a negative correlation between group size and infection intensity. Møller et al. (1993) speculate, however, that animals have evolved behaviors to mitigate the pathogenic risk of living in social groups. This includes grooming, rotating roost sites, mate selection, and aggressive behavior that is thought to reveal the presence of a depressed immune system in an individual.\n\nNot all research has supported this connection between pathogens and sociality, however. In fact, an abundance of information on social mammals as well as avian groups has drawn the exact opposite conclusion, Higher hemocyte and phenoloxidase levels were measured in solitary species than in socially organized ones in one study. This study is uniquely informative because it removes the potentially confounding factors of host-parasite co-evolution and phylogenetic similarities that come from measuring only the presence of pathogens, rather than the activity of the immune system. Similarly, Snaith et al. (2008) found that large social groups had even fewer parasites and they also measured lower levels of cortisol, a stress hormone that reduces immune function. Viral presence in scale-free networks without communities is higher, and in fact, the stronger the community structure of the animals is, the less likely a new outbreak will occur This information has stimulated inquiry into the various social structures that characterize animals.\nA few reasons for the contrary findings have been speculated. Due to the complex nature of social groups, studies that sample pathogen presence frequently fail to account for the fission-fusion nature that characterizes them: conflicts occur, new social bonds are made or die out, births and deaths of individuals occur, groups or individuals may migrate, networks may overlap or else be quite far apart from one another. Social groups are far from being stagnant and single measurements of pathogen presence can easily have misleading results. Wilson et al., 2003, also highlight the importance of accounting for shared ancestry among animals, which includes recent genetic relation as well as phylogenetic relationships. Parasite-host co-evolution is also important to consider, which may lead to an endemic presence of a pathogen in a group, or conversely, an immunity. Many other factors confound the dynamics of social groups and pathogen spread that will be examined in the \"Challenges\" section.\n\nGriffin and Nunn's (2012) article on community structure simulated the introduction of a pathogen into various group structures and communities. Ultimately, \"increased modularity mediates the elevated risk of parasitism associated with living in larger groups\". Such structures are composed of nodes that may represent an individual or a unit of individuals in a group who have ties to other nodes. If the community structure is strong, the eigenvector (here represented as a pathogen) will experience a dying-out effect, In geometrical structures of communities, a point represents a node, and a line between two nodes represents a social tie or interaction. In certain structures, the eigenvector may pass from one group to another, but the chances are limited. If a node is said to represent an individual, we can imagine that three potential outcomes will occur once that node has been infected. The individual may die, may become immune to future infection by the pathogen, or may live with the disease chronically until it is shed. In the first two outcomes, the pathogen will begin to experience a dying-out effect and transmission will begin to weaken. Wey et al. (2008) note that not all nodes are equal in weight within the community's structure, and therefore their level of risk for both reception and transmission may vary heavily. Furthermore, this \"weight\" of an individual can have interesting implications for transmission if a \"key individual\" is removed from the structure. An extreme consequence of the removal of a key individual could be the collapse of the structure, but also may mean the loss of a \"super-spreader\", which is an individual with many ties inside a community as well as ties to other communities. Super-spreaders may be measured by their high levels of in-degree and out-degree numbers. In-degree is a reflection of the susceptibility of a node because it is a measurement of all the social ties a node is the recipient of, whereas out-degree is a reflection of the contagiousness of a node because it is a measurement of all the social ties generating from that node.\n\nIn addition to the natural factors that make measuring true pathogen risk and prevalence difficult (mentioned above) are behaviors like mate selection, stress-hormone levels, degree of promiscuity in a group, and diet. Consideration of the effects humans have had on animal populations, both directly and indirectly, are paramount to understanding the spread of pathogens. Altizer et al. (2003) mention habitat fragmentation, crowding of animals onto wildlife reserves, and encroachment upon formerly wild lands that leads to increases in contact between wildlife and domesticated species as well as humans. More generally, Daszak et al. (2000) would include climate change as a tremendous confounding factor. We might furthermore speculate that certainly tourism and poaching have contributed their own to the contagion paradigm.\n\nHumans are surprisingly predictable when it comes to the range of possible social group structures. We occupy less than half of the social network structures that characterize non-human primates, however among primates we can be found to comfortably reside in the largest gamut for any one species. A few other notable characteristics make humans unique when considering community structure. We are the only primates that keep consanguineal relationships, even after departure from a natal group, and retain ties with kin living in different social groups. Although some non-human primates form temporary groups of \"roaming bachelors\", these social groups do not come anywhere near the fairly common social structures of permanent religious celibates. Some other examples of aberrant community and social structures in humans include men or women absenting for long periods in war or trade, \"raiding\" for wives that results in total displacement, eunuchs, and isolated stigmatized groups (criminals, lepers, etc.). A further oddity to consider regarding human social behavior is the \"creation\" of kin out of unrelated individuals, including the nomination of \"godparents\", step-families, and exceptionally close friends that assume a role of a relative. All of these examples have complicated effects on the measurement and understanding of pathogenic propagation within the human realm.\n\nInvasion by a pathogen in any community, human or otherwise, requires a two-step process. First, there must be importation of the pathogen by means of migration. This may occur through a traveling node, or a vector, or may occur when an entire community relocates. Second, the number of infections must rise due to the social contacts within that population. For humans, this process can appear extremely chaotic. \"Local public sites with extremely high population density such as train stations, or large social, political, or religious mass gatherings are regarded as high-risk…\".\nIn addition to those mentioned by Hu et al., 2013, we can add airports, schools, camps, and holiday shopping bedlam. An exceptionally important note to make here is that these heavily dense situations involve mainly strangers, as opposed to close social contacts that operate in a structured network. Especially with respect to modern technological advances that allow us to do such things as pass over enormous geological features, it would appear we are ripe for constant global pandemic. We are left to wonder, then, how human society can possibly persist so fruitfully considering the constant violations we make of strong community structures that would act as a buffer. Before examining research that addresses that question, it is important to acknowledge and understand the interwoven nature of human culture and epidemiology.\n\nThe first large human social activities, trailed by major disease outbreaks that have been documented occurred by fecal-oral route. Contaminated food or water by fecal matter can cause devastating effects and spread with extreme rapidity. They are, of course, not the only types of infection that threaten large gatherings of people. Respiratory infections, sexually transmitted infections, and measles have all been measured as potential infections resulting from mass gatherings. Social gatherings that have been linked to outbreaks include the 1918 Great Pandemic, the Asian Flu Pandemic of 1957, a 1987 outbreak of multi-drug resistant shigellosis in North Carolina that infected over 50% of event attendees, a 1992 outbreak of Campylobacter in the UK, a 1993 Hepatitis A outbreak at a youth camp in Australia, two separate outbreaks of meningococcal meningitis at the 2000 and 2001 Hajj, a 2008 influenza outbreak in Sydney, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic (which followed a large Easter gathering in Mexico). Rainey et al. (2016) identified a total of 72 mass-gathering related respiratory outbreaks between 2005 and 2014. Many of these outbreaks led to further outbreaks within the cities that infected individuals returned home to after the events. Particularly the epidemiological consequences of the Hajj are notable because of the range of dissemination that attendees have when they return from the pilgrimage. Infected individuals may return to their homes far from the source of the outbreak, and into communities that are especially vulnerable to a disease not characteristic of that community. Health response teams may be less equipped to manage the spread of the foreign pathogen, and the people may be less knowledgeable about risks and symptoms. Diseases such a tuberculosis have long incubation periods, which creates another obstacle since it separates the point of infection from the start of illness and therefore obscures the connection.\nIntervention and mitigation are possible for such large events, but involve very expensive and complex measures. Vaccinations are highly effective, but it is extremely costly to attempt to vaccinate large hordes of individuals. In a study of livestock populations, Hu et al., 2013 observed important patterns for vaccination efforts. When deaths from infection occur, or a method of culling is used, social networks will alter and individuals will spread out. Because of this, carefully designed vaccination efforts are significantly more effective and cheaper and must be implemented as fast as possible in order to contain the pathogen. Relatively new methods, such as tracking mobile phone data, have been used to glean information on effective strategies for containment in the situation of mass gatherings. Finger et al. (2016) state \"human mobility is undisputedly one of the main spreading mechanisms of infectious disease\". In their study, cell phone data was used to track the migration of people for the Grand Magal de Touba, a religious pilgrimage event that occurs in Senegal. Figure 6 illustrates the findings of this study and identifies areas that are paramount for targeting in an epidemiological prevention effort.\n\nSchaller and Park (2011) used the term \"the Behavioral Immune System\" to account for observable activities that humans utilize in the face of pathogen threat. Whereas non-human social animals appear to largely rely upon distinctly organized social structures to combat the threat of diseases, it is evident such systems would be strained to apply in most modern human societies. Schaller and Park (2011) describe \"perceptual cues\" that humans use that will trigger aversive behavior toward other individuals. For example, people who appear to be ill may stimulate avoidance behavior in those around them, particularly if the others around them have temporarily suppressed immune systems, Wilson et al., 2003, speculated that gregarious species may invest less overall in their immune functions because so many of the body's resources must go to support somatic growth and competition among mates. One potential explanation, therefore, for human hypersensitivity to the perception of disease threat is that we are left relatively vulnerable by our under-provisioned immune systems. Schaller and Park (2011) also make a connection between the experience of disgust and things that do pose actual threat of pathogen risk, however this \"disgust\" experience has a tendency to be over-applied rather than under-applied in the favor of the individual's health and is therefore triggered by things that resemble disgust-inducing objects or actions. Such research has enormous implications for the explanation of aspects ranging from cultural diet variance to conformity and xenophobia. Schaller and Murray (2008) ran a comparison against research by Grunier et al. (2004) that displayed the variability of the prevalence of pathogens on a geographic scale. Schaller and Murray (2008) found overlap in cultural differences that included food preparation, mate selection and family structure, and sociosexual practices. In regions where infectious disease threat was lower, people trended toward more liberal sexual practices, more extroverted personalities, and less \"self-conscious\" behavior. In the 2011 article \"the Behavioral Immune System\", the authors discuss how avoidance behaviors can also be triggered when an individual witnesses another individual violating social norms, hence a general trend toward ethnocentrism and wariness of foreigners. Especially during times of known pathogenic outbreak, this can be so extreme as to manifest itself in the form of xenophobia. Wu and Chang's 2011 study elucidated trends toward conformity that they believe may have evolved as a protective dynamic against the introduction of contagions.\n\nAlthough research in this area is still very new, it provides a logical and cogent connection between particulars of human sociality and disease transmission. It furthermore stimulates key insight into cultural dynamics that assist in human survival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1467246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467246", "title": "Solar still", "text": "Solar still\n\nA solar still evaporates the water with subsatnces dissolved in it water, using the heat of the Sun to evaporate water so that it may be cooled and collected, thereby purifying it. They are used in areas where drinking water is unavailable, so that clean water is obtained from dirty water or from plants by exposing them to sunlight.\n\nThere are many types of solar still, including large scale concentrated solar stills and condensation traps (better known as moisture traps amongst survivalists). In a solar still, impure water is contained outside the collector, where it is evaporated by sunlight shining through clear plastic or glass. The pure water vapor condenses on the cool inside surface and drips down, where it is collected and removed.\n\nDistillation replicates the way nature makes rain. The sun's energy heats water to the point of evaporation. As the water evaporates, water vapor rises, condensing into water again as it cools and can then be collected. This process leaves behind impurities, such as salts and heavy metals, and eliminates microbiological organisms. The end result is pure distilled water.\n\nCondensation traps have been in use since the pre-Incan peoples inhabited the Andes.\n\nToday a method for gathering water in moisture traps is still taught within the Argentinian Army for use by specialist units expected to conduct extended patrols of more than a week's duration in the arid border areas of the Andes.\n\nSolar stills are used in cases where rain, piped, or well water is impractical, such as in remote homes or during power outages. In subtropical hurricane target areas that can lose power for days, solar distillation can provide an alternative source of clean water.\n\nSeveral methods of trapping condensation exist:\n\nThis method was first used by the peoples of the Andes. A pit is dug into the earth, at the bottom of which is placed the receptacle that will be used to catch the condensed water. Small branches are placed with one of their ends inside the receptacle and their other ends up over the edge of the pit, forming a funnel to direct the condensed water into the receptacle. A lid is then built over this funnel, using more small branches, leaves, grasses, etc. The completed trap is left overnight, and moisture can be collected from the receptacle in the morning.\n\nThis method relies on the formation of dew or frost on the receptacle, funnel, and lid. Forming dew collects on and runs down the outside of the funnel and into the receptacle. This water would typically evaporate with the morning sun and thus vanish, but the lid traps the evaporating water and raises the humidity within the trap, reducing the amount of water that is lost. The shade produced by the lid also reduces the temperature within the trap, which further reduces the rate of water loss to evaporation.\n\nToday, with the advent of plastic sheeting, the moisture trap has become more efficient.\n\nThe method is very similar to that described above, but a single sheet of plastic is used instead of branches and leaves. The greater efficiency of this type of trap arises from the waterproof nature of the plastic, which doesn't let any water vapour pass through it (some water vapour escapes through the leaves and branches of the first method). This efficiency requires a certain amount of diligence of the part of the user, in that the plastic sheet must be firmly attached to the ground on all sides; this is often accomplished by using stones to weight the sheet down and/or covering the edges of the plastic sheet with earth (such as that dug out to make the hole in which the trap sits). Weighting the centre of the plastic sheet down with a stone forms the funnel via which the condensed water will run into the receptacle.\n\nWater can be obtained by placing clear plastic bags over the leafy branch of a \"non-poisonous\" tree and tightly closing the bag's open end around the branch. Any holes in the bag must be sealed to prevent the loss of water vapour.\n\nDuring photosynthesis plants lose water through a process called transpiration. A clear plastic bag sealed around a branch allows photosynthesis to continue, but traps the evaporating water causing the vapor pressure of water to rise to a point where it begins to condense on the surface of the plastic bag. Gravity then causes the water to run to the lowest part of the bag. Water is collected by tapping the bag and then resealing it. The leaves will continue to produce water as the roots draw it from the ground and photosynthesis occurs.\n\nThe vapor pressure of water in the sealed bag can rise so high that the leaves can no longer transpire, consequently when using this method, the water should be drained off every two hours and stored. Tests indicate that if this is not done the leaves stop producing water.\n\nIf there are no large trees in the area, clumps of grass or small bushes can be placed inside the bag. If this is done the foliage will have to be replaced at regular intervals when water production is reduced, particularly if the foliage must be uprooted to place it in the bag.\n\nEfficiency is greatest when the bag receives maximum sunshine at all times. Exposed roots are tested for water content. Soft, pulpy roots will yield the greatest amount of liquid for the least amount of effort.\n\nCondensation traps are not in themselves a sustainable source of water; they are sources for extending or supplementing existing water sources or supplies, and should not be relied on to provide a person's daily requirement for water, since a trap measuring 40 cm (16 inches) in diameter by 30 cm (12 inches) deep will only yield around 100 to 150 ml per day.\n\nOne method to increase the water output is to urinate into the pit before placing the receptacle in. This increases the moisture content of the earth, reducing the amount of water vapour that the earth can subsequently absorb.\n\nA simple basin-type solar still can be constructed with 2–4 stones, plastic film or transparent glass, a central weight to make a point and a container for the condensate. A cubic hole in moist ground is created of about 30 cm (12 inches) on each side. Into the centre of this hole, a collection container is placed. Then a sheet of plastic film is stretched over the hole. Stills can also be made from water bottles or plastic bags.\n\nAn alternative method of the solar still is called the transpiration bag. The bag is a simple plastic bag and it folds over a stemmed plant with a corner pointing down to allow the condensate to pool. From there a person can remove the water by taking the bag off and pouring the water out or one can make a tiny incision into the corner to drip water into a cup. Its advantage over the basin type solar still mentioned before is that it only requires a bag like one can get at the grocery store. It doesn’t need to be completely transparent. A disadvantage of the transpiration bag is the requirement for a plant in direct sunlight or heat to take the condensate.\n\nIn a study performed in 2009, variations to the angle of plastic and increasing the internal temperature of the hole versus the outside temperature made for better water production. Other methods used included using a brine to absorb water from and adding dyes to the brine to change the amount of solar radiation absorbed into the system. During the adjusted tilt angle experiment, the different angles used by the different researchers created different results and it was difficult for any of them to get a definite answer. In the graph, a bell curve is observed with the maximum water output being at 30 degrees angle adjustment. Each brine depth created a different amount of water and it is noted on the graph that about an inch is optimal with a decreasing trend if more is used.\n\nThe “wick” type solar still is a glass-topped box constructed and held at angle to allow sunlight in. Salt water poured in from the top is heated by sunlight, evaporating the water. It condenses on the underside of the glass and drips to the bottom. A pool of brine in the still is attached to the wicks which separates the water into banks to increase surface area for heating. The distilled water comes out of the bottom and, depending on the quality of construction, most of the salt has been purged from the water. The more wicks, the more heat can be transferred to the salt water and more product can be made. A plastic net can also catch salt water before it falls into the container and give it more time to heat up and separate into brine and water. The wick type solar still is made vapor-tight, as in the vapor does not escape to the atmosphere. To aid in absorbing more heat, some wicks are blackened to take in more heat. Glass’s absorption of heat is negligible compared to plastic at higher temperatures. A problem, depending on application, with glass is that it is not flexible if the solar still is not a standard shape.\n\nThe pit still may be inefficient as a survival still, requiring too much construction effort for the water produced. In desert environments water needs can exceed per day for a person at rest, while still production may average per day. Even with tools, digging a hole requires energy and makes a person lose water through perspiration; this means that even several days of water collection may not be equal to the water lost in its construction.\n\nIn 1952 the United States military developed a portable solar still for pilots stranded on the ocean, which comprises an inflatable 24-inch plastic ball that floats on the ocean, with a flexible tube coming out the side. A separate plastic bag hangs from attachment points on the outer bag. Seawater is poured into the inner bag from an opening in the ball's neck. Fresh water is taken out by the pilot using the side tube that leads to bottom of the inflatable ball. It was stated in magazine articles that on a good day 2.5 US quarts (2.4 l) of fresh water could be produced. On an overcast day, 1.5 US quarts (1.4 l) was produced. Similar sea water stills are included in some life raft survival kits, though manual reverse osmosis desalinators have mostly replaced them.\n\nUsing a condensation trap to distill urine will remove the urea and salt, providing one with drinkable water as a result.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2138070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2138070", "title": "St. Rose Dominican Hospital – Siena Campus", "text": "St. Rose Dominican Hospital – Siena Campus\n\nSt. Rose Dominican Hospital – Siena Campus is a non-profit hospital owned and operated by Dignity Health and is located in Henderson, Nevada.\n\nSiena Campus was the second St. Rose Dominican facility to open in Southern Nevada, bringing much-needed healthcare services to the growing Henderson area in 2000. The campus now serves as a hub for many of St. Rose Dominican’s tertiary services.\n\n"}
{"id": "1333512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1333512", "title": "T-2 mycotoxin", "text": "T-2 mycotoxin\n\nT-2 Mycotoxin (pronounced as 'Tee-Two') is a trichothecene mycotoxin. It is a naturally occurring mold byproduct of \"Fusarium\" spp. fungus which is toxic to humans and animals. The clinical condition it causes is \"alimentary toxic aleukia\" and a host of symptoms related to organs as diverse as the skin, airway, and stomach. Ingestion may come from consumption of moldy whole grains. T-2 can be absorbed through human skin. Although no significant systemic effects are expected after dermal contact in normal agricultural or residential environments, local skin effects can not be excluded. Hence, skin contact with T-2 should be limited.\n\nAlimentary toxic aleukia (ATA), a disease which is caused by trichothecenes like T-2 mycotoxin, killed many thousands of USSR citizens in the Orenburg District in the 1940s. It was reported that the mortality rate was 10% of the entire population in that area. During the 1970s it was proposed that the consumption of contaminated food was the cause of this mass poisoning. Because of World War II, harvesting of grains was delayed and food was scarce in Russia. This resulted in the consumption of grain that was contaminated with \"Fusarium\" molds, which produce T-2 mycotoxin.\n\nAlthough it is still controversial, it is suspected that T-2 mycotoxin has been used as a chemical warfare agent from the 1970s till the 1990s. Based on the descriptions of eyewitnesses and victims, T-2 mycotoxin was mostly delivered by low-flying aircraft that released a yellow oily liquid. Hence, this phenomenon is also named \"yellow rain\".\n\nIn 1982, the US Secretary of State Alexander Haig and his successor George P. Shultz accused the Soviet Union of using T-2 mycotoxin as a chemical weapon in Laos (1975–81), Kampuchea (1979–81), and Afghanistan (1979–81), where it allegedly caused thousands of casualties. Although several US chemical weapons experts have identified \"yellow rain\" samples from Laos as trichothecenes, other experts believe that this exposure was due to naturally occurring T-2 mycotoxin in contaminated foods. A second alternative theory was developed by Harvard biologist Matthew Meselson, who proposed that the \"yellow rain\" found in Southeast Asia originates from the excrement of jungle bees. The first indication for this theory came from finding high levels of pollen in the collected samples, giving the substance its yellow color. It was also found that jungle bees in this area fly collectively in great numbers, at altitudes too high to be easily seen, producing showers of feces that could have been mistaken for sprays from aircraft.\n\nT-2 mycotoxin is also thought to be a cause of Gulf War Syndrome. US troops suffered from mycotoxicosis-like symptoms after an Iraqi missile detonated in a US military camp in Saudi Arabia during Operation Desert Storm in the Persian Gulf War, in 1991. It has been shown that Iraq researched trichothecene mycotoxins, among other substances, and thus was capable of its possession and its usage in chemical warfare. Nevertheless, much of the key information from these incidents remains classified, leaving these matters still unresolved.\n\nThis compound has a tetracyclic sesquiterpenoid 12,13-epoxytrichothene ring system, which relates it to the trichothecenes. These compounds are generally very stable and are not degraded during storage/milling and cooking/processing of food. They do not degrade at high temperatures either. This compound has an epoxide ring, and several acetyl and hydroxyl groups on its side chains. These features are mainly responsible for the biological activity of the compound and make it highly toxic. T-2 mycotoxin is able to inhibit DNA and RNA synthesis in vivo and in vitro and can induce apoptosis. However, in vivo the compound rapidly metabolizes to HT-2 mycotoxin (a major metabolite).\n\nThe toxicity of T-2 toxin is due to its 12,13-epoxy ring. Epoxides are in general toxic compounds; these react with nucleophiles and then undergo further enzymatic reactions. The reactivity of epoxides can lead to reactions with endogenous compounds and cellular constituents like DNA bases and proteins. \nThese reactions could be the reason for the noticed actions and effects of T-2 mycotoxin. The toxic compound influences the metabolism of membrane phospholipids, leads to an increase of liver lipid peroxidases and has an inhibiting effect on DNA and RNA synthesis. In addition it can bind to an integral part of the 60s ribosomal subunit, peptidyltransferase, thereby inhibiting protein synthesis. \nThese effects are thought to be the explanation for T-2 toxin inducing apoptosis (cell death) in different tissues as the immune system, the gastrointestinal tissue and also fetal tissue. With regard to apoptosis there has been noticed that the level of the pro-apoptotic factor Bas (Bcl-2-associated X protein) was increased and the level of Bcl-xl, an anti-apoptotic factor, was decreased in human chrondocytes (cartilage cells). When exposed to T-2 mycotoxin. Furthermore, the level of Fas, an apoptosis-related cell-surface antigen and p53, a protein regulating the cell cycle, were increased.\n\nT-2 toxin is metabolized after ingestion. In vivo studies showed that the most occurring reactions are ester hydrolysis and hydroxylation of the isovaleryl group. Deepoxidation and glucuronide conjugation do also occur. Ht-2 is the main metabolite. For the hydroxylation, the cytochrome p450 enzyme complex is suggested to be involved. T-2 triol and T-2 tetraol are most likely to be formed via acetylcholine esterases. Some of the metabolic reactions of the mycotoxin are performed by the microflora in the gut. The formed metabolites in these reactions are species- and pH-dependent. The ester cleavages are however performed by the mammal itself and not by the microflora. In red blood cells T-2 mycotoxin is metabolized to neosolaniol and in white blood cells to HT-2 via hydrolysis catalyzed by carboxylesterases.T-2 toxin has a very short half-life.\n\nT-2 mycotoxin is produced naturally by Fusarium fungi of which the most important species are: F. sporotrichioides, F. langsethiae, F. acuminatum and F. poae. These fungi are found in grains such as barley, wheat and oats. The production of this compound for research and commercial purposes is generally accomplished by cultivating some strain of T-2 mycotoxin producing fungi on agar plates. On these agar plates the fungi appear powdery and can yield substantial amounts of T-2 mycotoxin. For the isolation of the compound high pressure liquid chromatography is commonly used (HPLC). No methods for chemically synthesizing T-2 mycotoxin have been established as of yet.\n\nHumans and animals are generally exposed to T-2 mycotoxins through food. Certain grains can contain the toxin which makes it a threat to human health and an economic burden. Unlike most biological toxins T-2 mycotoxin can be absorbed through intact skin. The compound can be delivered via food, water, droplets, aerosols and smoke from various dispersal systems. This makes it a potential biological weapon, however large amounts of the compound are required for a lethal dose. T-2 mycotoxin has an LD50 of approximately 1 milligram per kilogram of body weight\n\nThe EFSA estimates that the mean exposure of T-2 in the EU lies between 12 and 43 ng/kg bw/day. This range is below the TDI of 100 ng/ kg body weight for the sum of HT-2 and T-2 toxins which is used by the EFSA.\n\nT-2 is highly toxic when inhaled. Acute toxic symptoms include vomiting, diarrhea, skin irritation, itching, rash, blisters, bleeding and dyspnea. If the individual is exposed to T-2 over a longer period alimentary toxic aleukia (ATA) develops.\n\nAt first the patient experiences a burning sensation in the mouth, throat and stomach. After a few days the person will suffer from an acute gastroenteritis that will last for 3 to 9 days. Within 9 weeks the bone marrow will slowly degenerate. Also the skin starts bleeding and the total number of leukocytes decreases. Problems with the nervous system can occur.\n\nIn the end the following symptoms might occur: a high fever, petechial haemorrhage, necrosis of muscles and skin, bacterial infections of the necrotic tissue, enlarged lymph nodes. There is the possibility of asphyxiation because of laryngeal oedema and stenosis of the glottis. The lack of oxygen is then the cause of death. Otherwise the patient will die of bronchial pneumonia and lung bleeding.\n\nT-2 mycotoxin is also toxic to animals. The compound is known for having lethal and sub-lethal effects on farm animals. It is often found in contaminated cereal grains that are fed to these animals. Most of the toxic effects are shared between humans and animals. After exposing zebra fish embryos to a concentration of 20 µmol/L or higher malformation and mortality rates increased. The malformations included tail deformities, cardiovascular defects and changes in behavior in early stages of life. This is the result of an increase in the amount of epoxides, which causes cell apoptosis. Other studies have shown that T-2-toxin causes lipid peroxidation in rats after feeding it to them.\n\nThe compound also seems to reduce the fertility of ewes and heifers. Research has shown that a high dose of T-2 delays the ovulation due to a delayed follicle maturation. This possibly retards the following luteinisation, which makes it impossible for female animals to conceive.\n\nT-2 also has an effect on the fertility of bulls. In 1998 it was discovered that moldy hay influenced the quality of semen of bulls. Analysis of the moldy hay showed that T-2 was present. The compound decreased motility and testosterone levels and increased the amount of morphological abnormalities within the sperm cells.\n\nThe liver is another target for the mycotoxin. It is one of the first organs where the compound passes through after ingestion. Here it causes a reduced expression of CYP1A proteins in rabbits, pigs and rats. CYP3A activity decreases in pigs too. These enzymes help metabolize drugs that pass through the liver. Decrease in the activity could lead to an increase of unmetabolized drugs in the plasma. This can have a dangerous effect on an animal's health.\n\nAll of the mentioned effects happen when T-2 is ingested in high doses. Animals are able to metabolize the compound with enzymes from the CYP3A family, just like humans.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8632277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8632277", "title": "The great imitator", "text": "The great imitator\n\nThe Great Imitator (also The Great Masquerader) is a phrase used for medical conditions that feature nonspecific symptoms and may be confused with a number of other diseases. Most great imitators are systemic in nature. Diseases sometimes referred to with this name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "39334190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39334190", "title": "Tobacco and Primary Medical Services (Scotland) Act 2010", "text": "Tobacco and Primary Medical Services (Scotland) Act 2010\n\nThe Tobacco and Primary Medical Services (Scotland) Act 2010 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament. It bans the open display of tobacco products in shops and bans the use of cigarette vending machines. The Act established the Scottish Tobacco Retailers Register.\n\nThe Act introduced stronger measures against shops who sell tobacco to people under 18. The legal age to carry tobacco products in Scotland is 16. If a police officer suspects that someone under 16 is in possession of cigarettes, tobacco or cigarette papers in a public place then they can confiscate the items.\n\n"}
{"id": "1233983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233983", "title": "Tobacco packaging warning messages", "text": "Tobacco packaging warning messages\n\nTobacco package warning messages are warning messages that appear on the packaging of cigarettes and other tobacco products concerning their health effects. They have been implemented in an effort to enhance the public's awareness of the harmful effects of smoking. In general, warnings used in different countries try to emphasize the same messages. Warnings for some countries are listed below. Such warnings have been required in tobacco advertising for many years.\n\nThe WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, adopted in 2003, requires such package warning messages to promote awareness against smoking.\n\nA 2009 review summarises that \"There is clear evidence that tobacco package health warnings increase consumers’ knowledge about the health consequences of tobacco use.\" The warning messages \"contribute to changing consumers’ attitudes towards tobacco use as well as changing consumers’ behavior.\"\n\nAt the same time, such warning labels have been subject to criticism. 2007 meta-analyses indicated that communications emphasizing the severity of a threat are less effective than communications focusing on susceptibility, and that warning labels may have no effect among smokers who are not confident that they can quit, which lead the authors to recommend exploring different, potentially more effective methods of behavior change.\n\nText-based warnings on cigarette packets are used in Albania.\n\nGeneral warning: \nAs of January 30, 2013, all cigarette packages must include graphical warning labels that show the detrimental effects on the health of long-term smokers.\n\nTranslation of words in box:\n\nOn 1 December 2012, Australia introduced groundbreaking legislation and the world's toughest tobacco packaging warning messages to date. All marketing and brand devices were removed from the package and replaced with warnings, only the name of the product remain in generic standard sized text. All tobacco products sold, offered for sale or otherwise supplied in Australia were plain packaged and labelled with new and expanded health warnings.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, cigarette packages carry a small notice: \"Ministry of Health warns: Smoking is dangerous for your health\", but this is usually printed in light and small fonts, and the first part of the message is not always visible.\n\nIn Bangladesh, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a mouth cancer and lung cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Bolivia, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a laryngeal cancer and heart attack) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nFront of packaging (covers 30% of surface):\n\nBack of packaging (covers 50% of surface):\n\nBefore 2011, a small warning with the text \"Pušenje je štetno za zdravlje\" (Smoking is harmful to health) was printed on the back of cigarette packets.\n\nBrazil was the second country in the world and the first country in Latin America to adopt mandatory warning images in cigarette packages. Warnings and graphic images illustrating the risks of smoking occupy 100% of the back of cigarettes boxes since 2001. In 2008, the government elected a third batch of images, aimed at younger smokers.\n\nSince 2003, the sentence\n\nIn Brunei, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a tracheotomy and rotting teeth) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Cambodia, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a premature birth and lung cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nCanada has had three phases of tobacco warning labels. The first set of warnings was introduced in 1989 under the Tobacco Products Control Act, and required warnings to be printed on all tobacco products sold legally in Canada. The set consisted of four messages printed in black-and-white on the front and back of the package, and was expanded in 1994 to include eight messages covering 25% of the front top of the package. In 2000, the Tobacco Products Information Regulations (TPIR) were passed under the Tobacco Act. The regulations introduced a new set of sixteen warnings. Each warning was printed on the front and back of the package, covering 50% of the surface, with a short explanation and a picture illustrating that particular warning, for example:\n\naccompanied by a picture of a human lung detailing cancerous growths.\n\nAdditionally, on the inside of the packaging or, for some packets, on a pull-out card, \"health information messages\" provide answers and explanations regarding common questions and concerns about quitting smoking and smoking-related illnesses. The side of the package also featured information on toxic emissions and constituent levels.\n\nIn 2011, the TPIR were replaced for cigarettes and little cigars with the Tobacco Products Labelling Regulations (Cigarettes and Little Cigars). These regulations introduced the third and current set of 16 warnings in Canada. Currently, cigarette and little cigar packages in Canada must bear new graphic warning messages that cover 75% of the front and back of the package. The interior of each package contains 1 of 8 updated health warning messages, all including the number for a national quitline. The side of the package now bears 1 of 4 simplified toxic emission statements. These labels were fully implemented on cigarette and little cigar packages by June 2012 (though the 2000 labels still appear on other tobacco products). Canada also prohibits terms such as \"light\" and \"mild\" from appearing on tobacco packaging. The current labels were based on extensive research and a long consultation process that sought to evaluate and improve upon the warnings introduced in 2000.\n\nIn accordance with Canadian law regarding products sold legally in Canada, the warnings are provided in both English and French. Imported cigarettes to be sold in Canada which do not have the warnings are affixed with sticker versions when they are sold legally in Canada.\n\nHealth Canada is also considering laws mandating plain packaging, in which legal tobacco product packaging would still include warning labels, but brand names, fonts, and colors would be replaced with simple unadorned text, thereby reducing the impact of tobacco industry marketing techniques.\n\nThere have been complaints from some Canadians due to the graphic nature of the labels, but they generally enjoy wide public support.\n\nStarting in November 2006, all cigarette packages sold in Chile are required to have one of two health warnings, a graphic pictorial warning or a text-only warning. These warnings are replaced with a new set of two warnings each year.\n\nUnder laws of the People's Republic of China, \"Law on Tobacco Monopoly\" (中华人民共和国烟草专卖法) Chapter 4 Article 18 and \"Regulations for the Implementation of the Law on Tobacco Monopoly\" (中华人民共和国烟草专卖法实施条例) Chapter 5 Article 29, cigarettes and cigars sold within the territory of China should indicate the grade of tar content and \"Smoking is hazardous to your health\" (吸烟有害健康) in the Chinese language on the packs and cartons.\n\nIn 2009, the warnings were changed. The warnings which occupy not less than 30% of the front and back of cigarettes boxes shows \"吸烟有害健康 尽早戒烟有益健康\" (Smoking is harmful to your health. Quitting smoking early is good for your health) in the front, and \"吸烟有害健康 戒烟可减少对健康的危害\" ('Smoking is harmful to your health. Quitting smoking can reduce health risks) in the back.\n\nThe warnings were revised in October, 2016. The warnings occupy not less than 35% of the front and back of cigarettes boxes. The following warnings shows what is printed at the current time.\n\nIn Colombia, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a smoking hurts your arteries and bladder cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nGeneral warning:\nIn Ecuador, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a tongue cancer and premature birth) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Egypt, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a mouth cancer and gangrene) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nCigarette packets and other tobacco packaging must include warnings in the same size and format and using the same approved texts (in the appropriate local languages) in all member states of the European Union.\n\nThese warnings are displayed in black Helvetica bold on a white background with a thick black border. Ireland once prefaced its warnings with \"Irish Government Warning\", Latvia with \"Veselības ministrija brīdina\" (\"Health Ministry Warning\") and Spain with \"Las Autoridades Sanitarias Advierten (The Health Board Warns). In member states with more than one official language, the warnings are displayed in all official languages, with the sizes adjusted accordingly (for example in Belgium the messages are written in Dutch, French and German, in Luxembourg in French and German and in Ireland, in Irish and English). All cigarette packets sold in the European Union must display the content of nicotine, tar, and carbon monoxide in the same manner on the side of the packet.\n\nIn 2003, it was reported that sales of cigarette cases had surged, attributable to the introduction of more prominent warning labels on cigarette packs by an EU directive in January 2003. Alternatively, people choose to hide the warnings using various arguably \"funny\" stickers, such as \"You could be hit by a bus tomorrow.\"\n\nThe most recent EU legislation is the Tobacco Products Directive, which became applicable in EU countries in May 2016.\n\n\nIn Belgium, warning signs are written in both Dutch, French and German languages.\n\nFront of packaging (covers 30% of surface):\nor\nBack of packaging (covers 40% of surface):\n\nThe last warning contains a mistranslation from Directive 2001/37/EC – \"hydrogen\" was translated as \"ugljik\" (carbon) instead of \"vodik\". It was nevertheless signed into law and started appearing on cigarette packages in March 2009.\n\n2004–2009\n\nThese warnings are also simple text warnings.\n\nFront of packaging:\n\nBack of packaging:\n\nSide of packaging:\n\n1997–2004\n\nBetween 1997 and 2004, a simple text label warning \"Pušenje je štetno za zdravlje\" (Smoking is harmful to health) was used.\n\n\nor\n\n\nWarning texts in tobacco products, health warnings, which are reproduced on the packaging of cigarettes and other tobacco products. It is implemented in an effort to strengthen public knowledge about the dangers of smoking.\n\nThe order was introduced in Denmark on 31 December 1991. The Order was last revised on 2 October 2003, which also imposed ban on the words \"light\" and \"mild\" on Danish cigarette packages, as did European Union countries.\n\nThe marking shall appear on one third of the most visible part of the package.\n\nFor smokeless tobacco use above markings does not, whereas the label \"\" (This tobacco product can damage your health and is addictive) is always used for such products.\n\nGeneral warning:\n\nor\n\nIn Finland, warning signs are written in both Finnish and Swedish languages.\n\n\nor\n\n\n\nIreland currently follows EU standards (see above), but previously ran its own scheme, where one of 8 messages was placed on the pack, as defined in SI 326/1991.\n\nAfter a High Court settlement in January 2008, it was accepted that the warnings on tobacco products must appear in all official languages of the state. As a result, the European Communities (Manufacture, Presentation \nand Sale of Tobacco Products) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 were enacted. This states that tobacco products going to market after 30 September 2008 must carry warnings in Irish and English. A year-long transition period applied to products which were on the market prior to 1 October 2008, which may have been sold until 1 October 2009.\n\nEach packet of tobacco products must carry:\n\n\nOther text is sometimes placed in the packets, for example some packets contain leaflets which have all the above warnings written on them, with more detailed explanations and reasons to give up, and advice from Philip Morris.\n\n\nGeneral warning:\n\nor\n\n\nFront of packaging (covers 30% of surface):\n\nor\nThere are also warnings on the back of every packet:\n\n\n\nGeneral warning (on the front of cigarette packages, covering at least 40% of the area):\n\nAdditional warnings (on the back of cigarette packages, covering at least 50% of the area):\n\n\n\nor\n\n\nIn Spain, cigarette packages are preceded by warnings on both sides of the package marked \"Las Autoridades Sanitarias advierten\" (Health authorities warn), written in black and white above the black part of the standard warning.\n\nor\n\n\nGeneral warnings on all Swedish cigarette packagings have been in force since 1977.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1971, tobacco companies printed on the left side of cigarette packets \"WARNING by H.M. Government, SMOKING CAN DAMAGE YOUR HEALTH\".\n\nIn 1991, the E.U. tightened laws on tobacco warnings. \"TOBACCO SERIOUSLY DAMAGES HEALTH\" was printed on the front of all tobacco packs. An additional warning was also printed on the reverse of cigarette packs.\n\nIn 2003, new E.U. regulations required one of the following general warnings must be displayed, covering at least 30% of the surface of the pack:\n\nAdditionally, one of the following additional warnings must be displayed, covering at least 40% of the surface of the pack:\n\nFrom October 2008, all cigarette products manufactured must carry picture warnings to the reverse. Every pack must have one of these warnings by October 2009.\n\nPlain packaging, including prominent and standardised health warnings and minimal manufacturer information, became compulsory for all cigarette and hand-rolling tobacco packs manufactured after May 2016 and sold after May 2017.\n\nGeneral warning:\n\nGhanaian warnings are very compliant with the EU's legislations, as follows:\n\nPackaging 1 (same as in the newer UK packaging):\n\nPackaging 2 (same as in the older UK packaging):\n\nPackaging 3 (same as in the older UK packaging):\n\nUnder Hong Kong Law, Chap 371B \"Smoking (Public Health) (Notices) Order\", packaging must indicate the amount of nicotine and tar that is present in cigarette boxes in addition to graphics depicting different health problems caused by smoking in the size and ratio as prescribed by law. The warnings are to be published in both official languages, Traditional Chinese and English.\n\nWarning begins with the phrase ' HONG KONG SAR GOVERNMENT WARNING' and then one of the following in all caps.\n\nIn addition, any print advertisement must give minimum 20% coverage of the following warnings:\nHKSAR GOVERNMENT HEALTH WARNING\n\nAll cigarette packets and other tobacco packaging in Iceland must include warnings in the same size and format as in the European Union and using the same approved texts in Icelandic.\n\n\nCigarette packets sold in India are required to carry graphical and textual health warnings. The warning must cover at least 85% of the surface of the pack, of which 60% must be pictorial and the remaining 25% contains textual warnings in English, Hindi or any other Indian language.\n\nUntil 2008, cigarette packets sold in India were required to carry a written warning on the front of the packet with the text \"CIGARETTE SMOKING IS INJURIOUS TO HEALTH\" in English. Paan, gutkha and tobacco packets carried the warning \"TOBACCO IS INJURIOUS TO HEALTH\" in Hindi and English. The law later changed. According to the new law, cigarette packets were required to carry pictorial warnings of a skull or scorpion along with the text \"SMOKING KILLS\" and \"TOBACCO CAUSES MOUTH CANCER\" in both Hindi and English.\n\n\"The Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Rules 2008\" requiring graphic health warnings came into force on 31 May 2008. Under the law, all tobacco products were required to display graphic pictures, such as pictures of diseased lungs, and the text \"SMOKING KILLS\" or \"TOBACCO KILLS\" in English, covering at least 40% of the front of the pack, and retailers must display the cigarette packs in such a way that the pictures on pack are clearly visible. In January 2012 controversy arose when it was discovered an image of English footballer John Terry was used on a warning label.\n\nOn 15 October 2014, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan announced that only 15% of the surface of a pack of cigarettes could contain branding, and that the rest must be used for graphic and text health warnings. The Union Ministry of Health amended the \"Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Rules, 2008\" to enforce the changes effective from 1 April 2015.\n\nHowever, the government decision to increase pictorial warnings on tobacco packets from April 1, was put on hold indefinitely, following the recommendations of a Parliamentary committee, which reportedly did not speak to health experts, but only spoke to tobacco lobby representatives. On April 5, 2016, the health ministry ordered government agencies to enforce this new rule.\n\nFollowing the intervention by the Parliamentary committee, NGO Health of Millions represented by Prashant Bhushan filed a petition in Supreme Court of India, which asks the government to stop selling of loose cigarettes and publish bigger health warnings on tobacco packs.\n\nGeneral warning:\nBefore 1996\n1996-1999\n1999–2001\n2002–end of 2013\nSince 2014\nWith the enforcement of 2012 Indonesian Government Regulation (\"Peraturan Pemerintah\") No. 109, all of tobacco products/cigarette packaging and advertisement should include warning images and age restriction (18+). Graphic warning messages must consist 40% of cigarette packages. After the introduction of graphic images in Indonesian cigarette packaging, the branding of cigarettes as \"light\", \"mild\",\"filter\", etc. is forbidden.\nOther alternatives:\n\nThe warning below appears on the side of the cigarette packaging:\n\n2018–\nBecause all pictorial health warnings (PHW) used in Indonesia originally came from the 2005 version of PHWs in Thailand, on 31 May 2018, the Ministry of Health launched new PHWs, of which three depict Indonesian smokers.\n\n\nIn Iran, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a lung cancer and mouth cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nJapan is the first country in Asia to enforce general warning on cigarette packaging, in force since 1972.\n\nPrior to 2005, there was only one warning on all Japanese cigarette packages.\n\nSince 2005, more than one general warning is printed on cigarette packaging.\n\nOn the front of cigarette packages:\n\nOn the back of cigarette packages:\n\nIn Laos, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a mouth cancer and rotting teeth) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Malaysia, general warning as a mandatory on all Malaysian cigarette packaging are in force since June 1976.\n\n\nStarting 1 June 2009, The Malaysian government has decided to place graphic images on the cigarette packs to show the adverse long-term effects of excessive smoking replacing the general warning with text describing the graphic images printed in Malay (front) and English (back) explaining:\n\n\nGraphic warning messages must consist 40% of the front of cigarette packages and 60% in the back. After the introduction of graphic images in Malaysian cigarette packaging, the branding of cigarettes as \"light\", \"mild\", etc. is forbidden.\n\nIn Mexico cigarette packs contain health warnings and graphic images since 2010. By law, 30% of the pack's front, 100% of the pack's rear, and 100% of one lateral must consist on images and warnings. The Secretariat of Health issues new warnings and images every six months. Images have included a dead rat, a partial mastectomy, a laryngectomy, a dead human fetus surrounded by cigarette butts, a woman being fed after suffering a stroke, and damaged lungs amongst others.\n\nWarnings include smoking-related diseases and statistics, toxins found in cigarettes and others such as:\n\nGeneral warning (on the front of cigarette packages, covering at least 30% of the area, Helvetica font):\n\n\nAdditional warnings (on the back of cigarette packages, covering at least 40% of the area, Helvetica font):\n\n\nRegulated by “LEGE cu privire la tutun şi la articolele din tutun“ (Law on tobacco and tobacco articles) nr. 278-XVI from 14.12.2007 enabled at 07.03.2008\n\nCigarette packets in Transnistria have variable warning labels, depending from where they come from (English, Russian, etc.)\n\nIn Mongolia, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a heart disease and lung cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Montenegro, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a mouth cancer and lung cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Nepal, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a lung cancer and mouth cancer) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nThe first health warnings appeared on cigarette packets in New Zealand in 1974. Warning images accompanying text have been required to appear on each packet since 28 February 2008. New Regulations were made on 14 March 2018 which provided for larger warnings and a new schedule of images and messages.\n\nBy law, 75% of the cigarette pack's front and 100% of the cigarette pack's rear must consist of warning messages. Images include gangrenous toes, rotting teeth and gums, diseased lungs and smoking-damaged hearts. Cigarette packets also carry the Quitline logo and phone number and other information about quitting smoking.\n\nIn total, there are 15 different warnings. A full list with pictures is available at the New Zealand Ministry of Health's website. Warning messages are rotated annually. Following is a list of the warnings in English and Māori.\n\nSmoking causes heart attacks, KA PĀ MAI NGĀ MANAWA-HĒ I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking causes over 80% of lung cancers, NEKE ATU I TE 80% O NGĀ MATE PUKUPUKU KI NGĀ PŪKAHUKAHU I AHU MAI I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking harms your baby before it is born, KA TŪKINOHIA TŌ PĒPI I TO KŌPŪ I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nYour smoking harms others, KA TŪKINOHIA ĒTAHI ATU I Ō MAHI KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking is a major cause of stroke, KA PIKI AKE I TE KAI PAIPA TŌ TŪPONO KI TE IKURA RORO\n\nSmoking damages your blood vessels, KA TŪKINOHIA Ō IA TOTO I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking is not attractive, KA ANUANU KOE I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking causes heart attacks, KA PĀ MAI NGĀ MANAWA-HĒ I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking causes lung cancer, KA PĀ MAI TE MATE PUKUPUKU KI NGĀ PŪKAHUKAHU I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking when pregnant harms your baby, KA TŪKINOHIA TŌ PĒPI I TE KAI PAIPA I A KOE E HAPŪ ANA\n\nYour smoking harms children, KA TŪKINOHIA NGĀ TAMARIKI I Ō MAHI KAI PAIPA\n\nSmoking is a major cause of stroke, KA PIKI AKE I TE KAI PAIPA TŌ TŪPONO KI TE IKURA RORO\n\nQuit before it is too late, ME WHAKAMUTU KEI RIRO KOE\n\nSmoking causes gum disease and stinking breath, KA PĀ TE MATE PŪNIHO, KA HAUNGA TŌ HĀ I TE KAI PAIPA\n\nThere are two versions of general warnings, as follows:\n\nFrom 2013 onward, there is a warning:\nNorway have had general warnings on cigarette packets since 1975. Norway's warnings of today were introduced in 2003 and are in line with EU's legislation, as Norway is an EEA member:\n\nOn the front of cigarette and cigar packages, covering about 30% of the area:\n\nOn the back of cigarette and cigar packages, covering about 45% of the area:\n\nTobacco products like snus and chewing tobacco have the following warning printed on them:\n\nAll cigarettes are required by a Statutory Order 1219(I)/2008 dated 25 September 2008, published in the Gazette of Pakistan dated 24 November 2008, to carry rotational health warnings from 1 July 2009. Under the previous law, health warnings were not required to be rotated.\n\nEach health warning will be printed for a period of 6 months. The health warnings are to be in Urdu and in English. Here are the English versions:\n\n1. WARNING: Protect children. Do not let them breathe your smoke. Ministry of Health.\n\n2. WARNING: Smoking causes mouth and throat cancer. Ministry of Health.\n\n3. WARNING: Quit smoking; live longer life. Ministry of Health.\n\n4. WARNING: Smoking severely harms you and the people around you. Ministry of Health.\n\nThe warnings shall cover at least 30% on both sides of the packet, and located at the top portions of the face (in Urdu) and back (in English) of the packet.\n\nIn Paraguay, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including impotence and heart attack) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nIn Peru, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including abortions and asthma) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nAll cigarette packaging sold in Philippines are required to display a government warning label. The warnings include:\n\n\nIn July 2014, Philippine President Benigno Aquino III signed the Republic Act 10643, or “An Act to Effectively Instill Health Consciousness through Graphic Health Warnings on Tobacco Products\", more known as the \"Graphic Health Warning Act.” This law requires tobacco product packaging to display pictures of the ill effects of smoking, occupying the bottom half of the display area in both front and the back side of the packaging. On March 3, 2016, Department of Health (DOH) secretary Janette Garin started the implementation of Republic Act 10643, requiring tobacco manufacturers to include graphic health warnings on newer cigarette packaging.\n\nWith the Graphic Health Warning Act implemented, graphic health warnings are used on all newer cigarette packaging, and older packages using text-only warnings are required to be replaced by newer packaging incorporating graphic warnings. The 12 new warnings, showing photos of negative effects of smoking, like mouth cancer, impotence, and gangrene, are rotated every month, and on November 3, 2016, all cigarette packaging without graphic health warning messages are banned from sale. Labeling of cigarettes with \"light\" or \"mild\" is also forbidden by the Graphic Health Warning Act.\n\nWarning messages on Russian cigarette packets revised in 2013, falling in line with European Union standards.\nNote: 12 different variants.\n\nThe warning messages on Serbian cigarette packets are visually similar to those in European Union countries, but the texts used in Serbia are not translated directly from EU-approved texts.\nText warnings were first added on cigarette packets. They used blunt, straight-to-the-point messages such as 'Smoking causes lung cancer'. They were later replaced by graphic warnings in August 2004. They featured gory pictures and were printed with the messages:\nIn 2016, the images and warnings were revised, with images focusing on damaged organs. The following warnings shows what is printed nowadays.\n\nFrom 1 January 2009, people possessing cigarettes without the SDPC (Singapore Duty Paid Cigarettes) label will be committing an offence under the Customs and GST Acts. The law was passed to distinguish non-duty paid, contraband cigarettes from duty-paid ones.\n\nSwitzerland has four official languages, but only has warning messages in three languages. The fourth language, Romansh, is only spoken by 0.5% of the population, and those persons typically also speak either German or Italian. The three warning messages below are posted on cigarette packets, cartons and advertisements such as outdoor billboard posters:\n\nA small warning, in Somali and English, appears on British American Tobacco brands, Royals and Pall Mall.\n\nIn South Africa, the \"Tobacco Products Control Act\", 1993 and its amendments (1999, 2007, 2009), stipulate that a warning related to the harmful effects (health, social, or economic) of tobacco smoking, or the beneficial effects of cessation, must be placed prominently on tobacco products covering 15% of the obverse, 25% of the reverse and 20% of the sides of packing.\n\nAccording to the draft \"Control of Tobacco Products and Electronic Delivery Systems Bill\", 2018, new legislation, once enacted, will require uniform, plain colored packaging (branding and logos prohibited) containing the brand and product name in a standard typeface and color, a warning related to the harmful effects of tobacco smoking, or beneficial effects of cessation, and a graphic image of tobacco-related harm.\nIn South Korea, general warning on cigarette packaging are in force since 1976. The warning messages are:\n\n\nIn Sri Lanka, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a cancer and heart attack) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\nThe warnings in Taiwan are led by the phrase \"行政院衛生署警告\" (\"Warning from the Department of Health, Executive Yuan:\"), and followed by one of the following warnings:\n\nDue to the Department of Health was reorganized into Ministry of Health and Welfare, the images and warnings were revised in 2014. The following warnings shows what is printed (the new warnings will use on June 1, 2014).\n\n\nWhether the warning is the old version or the new version, it will be marked with \"戒煙專線0800-636363\" (Smoking Quitting Hotline: 0800-636363).\n\nIn Thailand, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a tracheotomy and rotting teeth) are placed prominently on cigarette packages. A recent study showed that the warnings made Thai smokers think more often about the health risks of smoking and about quitting smoking.\n\n\nor\n\n\nThe warning messages on Ukrainian cigarette packets are also visually similar to those in European Union countries:\n\nIn 1966, the United States became the first nation in the world to require a health warning on cigarette packages.\n\nIn 1973, the Assistant Director of Research at R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company wrote an internal memorandum regarding new brands of cigarettes for the youth market. He observed that, \"psychologically, at eighteen, one is immortal\" and theorized that \"the desire to be daring is part of the motivation to start smoking.\" He stated, \"in this sense the label on the package is a plus.\"\n\nIn 1999, Philip Morris U.S.A. purchased three brands of cigarettes from Liggett Group Inc. The brands were: Chesterfield, L&M, and Lark. At the time Philip Morris purchased the brands from Liggett, the packaging for those cigarettes included the statement \"Smoking is Addictive\". After Philip Morris acquired the three Liggett brands, it removed the statement from the packages.\n\nThough the United States started the trend of labeling cigarette packages with warnings, today the country has one of the least restrictive labelling requirements on their packages. Warnings are usually in small typeface placed along one of the sides of the cigarette packs with colors and fonts that closely resemble the rest of the package, so the warnings essentially are integrated and do not stand out with the rest of the cigarette package.\n\nHowever, this is subject to change as the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009 requires color graphics with supplemental text that depicts the negative consequences of smoking to cover 50 percent of the front and rear of each pack. The nine new graphic warning labels were announced by the FDA in June 2011 and were required to appear on packaging by September 2012, though this was delayed by legal challenges.\n\nIn August 2011, five tobacco companies filed a lawsuit against the FDA in an effort to reverse the new warning mandate. Tobacco companies claimed that being required to promote government anti-smoking campaigns by placing the new warnings on packaging violates the companies' free speech rights. Additionally, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company Inc. claimed that the graphic labels are an unconstitutional way of forcing tobacco companies to engage in anti-smoking advocacy on the government's behalf. A First Amendment lawyer, Floyd Abrams, represented the tobacco companies in the case, contending that requiring graphic warning labels on a lawful product cannot withstand constitutional scrutiny. The Association of National Advertisers and the American Advertising Federation also filed a brief in the suit, arguing that the labels infringe on commercial free speech and could lead to further government intrusion if left unchallenged.\n\nOn 29 February 2012, U.S. District Judge Richard Leon ruled that the labels violate the right to free speech in the First Amendment. However, the following month the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit upheld the majority of the Tobacco Control Act of 2009, including the part requiring graphic warning labels. In April 2013 the Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal to this ruling, allowing the new labels to stand. As the original ruling against the FDA images was not actually reversed, the FDA will again need to go through the process of developing the new warning labels, and the timetable and final product remain unknown.\n\nStronger warning labels started to appear in May 2010.\n\nEffective June 2010, the following labels began to appear on smokeless tobacco products (also known as chewing tobacco) and their advertisements.\n\nThe new warnings are required to comprise 30 percent of two principal display panels on the packaging; on advertisements, the health warnings must constitute 20 percent of the total area.\n\nFor many years in Venezuela, the only warning in cigarette packs was printed in a very small typeface along one of the sides:\n\n\"\" (It has been determined that cigarette smoking is harmful to your health, Cigarette Tax Law) Since 14 September 1978\n\nOn 24 March 2005, another warning was introduced in every cigarette pack: \"Este producto contiene alquitrán, nicotina y monóxido de carbono, los cuales son cancerígenos y tóxicos. No existen niveles seguros para el consumo de estas sustancias\" (This product contains tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, which are carcinogenic and toxic. There are no safe levels for consumption of these substances\".\n\n1978's warning, was not removed, now every cigarette pack contains both warnings (one on each lateral).\n\nIn addition, since 24 March 2005, one of the following warnings is randomly printed very prominently, along with a graphical image, occupying the 100% of the back of the pack (40% for the text warning and 60% for the image):\n\nAlso, in Venezuela, tobacco advertising is strictly forbidden, so much so that the words tobacco, cigarette, cigar, etc. are not permitted in media such as radio and television and no one can smoke on television.\n\nIn the campaign called: \"Venezuela 100% libre de humo\" (Venezuela, 100% smoke-free), curiously, these warnings only appear on cigarette packs and not on other tobacco products (which only conserve the 1978 warning).\n\nIn Vietnam, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including a tracheotomy and rotting teeth) are placed prominently on cigarette packages.\n\n"}
{"id": "57165508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57165508", "title": "Weathering hypothesis", "text": "Weathering hypothesis\n\nThe weathering hypothesis was first proposed by Arline Geronimus in 1992. It holds that African American women's health deteriorates in early adulthood as a result of their cumulative exposure to socioeconomic disadvantage. Subsequent studies by her and others have found support for the hypothesis. In recent years, the hypothesis has been examined with regard to phenomena such as allostatic load, epigenetics, and telomere shortening.\nWhile working part-time at a school for pregnant teenagers in Trenton, New Jersey, Geronimus first noticed that the teens who came to the school tended to have far more health problems than her classmates at Princeton University. She thus began to wonder whether the health conditions of the teens at that clinic may have been caused by their environment. While in graduate school, she proposed the \"weathering hypothesis\". She chose the term weathering as a metaphor for the effects she perceived that exposure to stress was having on the health of marginalized people.\n\n"}
