{"id": "31687100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31687100", "title": "(308635) 2005 YU55", "text": "(308635) 2005 YU55\n\n, provisionally known as 2005 YU55, is a potentially hazardous asteroid 360±40 meters in diameter, as measured after its Earth flyby. Previously it was estimated at 310 meters or about 400 m (1,300 feet) in diameter. It was discovered on 28 December 2005 by Robert S. McMillan at Steward Observatory, Kitt Peak. On 8 November 2011 it passed 0.85 lunar distances (324,900 kilometers; 201,900 miles) from Earth.\n\nIn February 2010, was rated 1 on the Torino Scale for a potential pass near Earth on November 10, 2103, that posed no unusual level of danger. On 19 April 2010, radar ranging by the Arecibo radio telescope reduced uncertainties about the orbit by 50%. This improvement eliminated any possibility of an impact with Earth within the next 100 years. It was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 22 April 2010 and as such it now has a rating of 0 on the Torino Scale. It is now known that on 10 November 2103 will be roughly 2 AU from Earth.\n\nOn 8 November 2011 at 23:28 UT the asteroid passed from Earth. On 9 November 2011 at 07:13 UT the asteroid passed from the Moon. During the close approach the asteroid reached about apparent magnitude 11, and would have been visible to experienced observers using high-end binoculars with an objective lens of 80+ mm if it were not for bright moonlight preventing a true dark sky. Since the gibbous moon did interfere with the viewing, observers trying to visually locate the asteroid required a telescope with an aperture of 6 inches (15 centimeters) or larger.\n\nThe next few times a known asteroid this large will come this close to Earth will be in 2028 when passes 0.65 LD from Earth, and in 2029 when the 325-meter 99942 Apophis comes even closer at just 0.10 LD.\n\nAccording to Jay Melosh, if an asteroid the size of (~400 m across) were to hit land, it would create a crater across, deep and generate a seven-magnitude-equivalent-earthquake. The chances of an actual collision with an asteroid like is about 1 percent in the next thousand years.\n\nDuring the 2011 passage was studied with radar using Goldstone, Arecibo, the Very Long Baseline Array, and the Green Bank Telescope. The Herschel Space Observatory has made far-infrared measurements of on November 10, helping determine its temperature and composition.\n\nRadar analysis has also helped to pin down the asteroid's albedo, or diffuse reflectivity. Although radar measurements do not detect visible light they can determine the distance and size of an object with a high degree of accuracy. This information, coupled with visible light measurements, provides a more accurate measure of an object's absolute magnitude, and therefore its albedo.\n\nOn November 8, 2011, NASA released a statement mentioning a number of structures on the surface of the asteroid, which were detected as it passed near Earth. On November 11, 2011, higher-resolution images showed concavities, a ridge near the asteroid's equator, and numerous features interpreted as decameter-scale boulders. Shape modeling based on the radar images shows that YU55's shape is close to spheroidal, with maximum dimensions of 360±40 m, and an equator-aligned ridge. A 150–200-meter-long, ~20-meter-high rise forms a portion of the ridge-line, and the number of boulders on the surface is comparable to that seen on the asteroid 25143 Itokawa by the Hayabusa spacecraft.\n\nOptical lightcurve measurements during the flyby provided a more accurate estimate of the asteroid's spin period – about 19.3 hours. Because is so nearly spheroidal, it was not significantly torqued by Earth's tides during the flyby, and there is no evidence of non-principal-axis rotation. Optical, near-infrared, and ultraviolet spectroscopy confirmed that is a C-type asteroid.\n\nOn 19 January 2029, will pass from Venus. The close approach distance to Venus in 2029 will determine how close the asteroid will pass to Earth in 2041. Before the November 2011 observations, the uncertainties in the post-2029 trajectory showed that the asteroid would pass somewhere between and of Earth in 2041. Radar astrometry in November 2011 clarified the Earth passage in 2041 and beyond. As a result of the November 2011 radar observations, it is now known that will pass between and 0.1020 AU of Earth on 12 November 2041. Using the current uncertainty region integrated until the future, the 2075 approach will be between and .\n\n"}
{"id": "42995159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42995159", "title": "(357439) 2004 BL86", "text": "(357439) 2004 BL86\n\nOn 26 January 2015 at 16:20 UTC, passed , or 3.1 lunar distances, from Earth. The asteroid briefly peaked around apparent magnitude 9 and was near the celestial equator. The asteroid was visible in telescopes with objectives of or larger; high-end binoculars under a dark sky may also have worked. Near closest approach the asteroid was moving about 2.5 degrees per hour (2.5 arcseconds per second). The asteroid came to opposition (furthest elongation in the sky from the Sun) on 27 January 2015 at 04:37 UTC. Around 5:00 UTC, the asteroid was near M44 (the Beehive Cluster).\n\nThe 26 January 2015 approach of 3.1 lunar distances was the closest approach of for at least the next 200 years. For comparison, , about twice the size of , passed , or 1.3 lunar distances, from Earth on 31 October 2015.\n\nA minor-planet moon, provisionally designated , was first detected by ground-based telescopes by Joe Pollock and Petr Pravec. Observations by the Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex and Green Bank Telescope confirmed that it is a binary asteroid with a secondary roughly across. The secondary is estimated to orbit at least from the primary. About 16% of asteroids over in diameter are thought to be binaries.\n\nThis minor planet was numbered on 27 March 2013 (). As of 2017, it has not been named.\n\n"}
{"id": "57261438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57261438", "title": "Aberdour Conservation Park", "text": "Aberdour Conservation Park\n\nAberdour Conservation Park is a protected area in the Australian state of South Australia located in the state’s south-east in the locality of Willalooka about south-east of the state capital of Adelaide and about south of the town of Keith.\n\nThe conservation park consists of land in sections 7 and 80 in the cadastral unit of the Hundred of Willalooka. The Cannawigara Road which extends from Bordertown in the east to the Riddoch Highway in the west in Willalooka passes between sections 7 and 80 while Nankivell Road adjoins the eastern boundary with section 7. A fire access track is located inside the fence line on the western and northern boundaries while a disused quarry is located on the eastern boundary.\n\nIt was proclaimed under the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\" on 28 February 1991 in respect to section 7 which was gifted to the state government by the Nankivell family. Land in section 80 which was formerly a stone reserve under the control of the District Council of Tatiara was added by proclamation to the conservation park on 16 February 2006. The name is derived from Aberdour Homestead which is located to the west of the conservation park on the east side of the Riddoch Highway in the locality of Willalooka. As of 2016, it covered an area of .\n\nIn 1997, the conservation park was described as follows:The park preserves an area of remnant vegetation typical of undulating dune and limestone country. Due to the extensive clearance in the surrounding area, the park provides an important habitat and stepping stone for many fauna species, particularly birds.\n\nThe conservation park supports the following three vegetation associations:\n\nLand within the conservation park’s boundaries is known to be a site for Jumping-Jack Wattle (\"Acacia enterocarpa\"), a species of plant which is listed as \"endangered\" both by the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\" and the Commonwealth \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999\".\n\nAs of 1997, visitation consisted mainly of “local school groups” undertaking “environmental education.”\n\nThe conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category III protected area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36939819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36939819", "title": "Analog observation", "text": "Analog observation\n\nAnalog observation is, in contrast to naturalistic observation, a research tool by which a subject is observed in an artificial setting. Typically, types of settings in which analog observation is utilized include clinical offices or research laboratories, but, by definition, analog observations can be made in any artificial environment, even if the environment is one which the subject is likely to encounter naturally.\n\nAnalog observation is typically divided into two iteration of application: The first iteration primarily studies the effect of manipulation of variables in the subject's environment, including setting and events, on the subject's behavior. The second iteration primarily seeks to observe the subject's behavior in quasi-experimental social situations.\n\n"}
{"id": "55053417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55053417", "title": "Brooks-British Range tundra", "text": "Brooks-British Range tundra\n\nThe Brooks-British Range tundra is an ecoregion spanning North America and Canada, and is one of the WWF Global 200 ecoregions\n"}
{"id": "32407773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32407773", "title": "Cirrocumulus stratiformis", "text": "Cirrocumulus stratiformis\n\nCirrocumulus stratiformis is a type of cirrocumulus cloud. The name \"cirrocumulus stratiformis\" is derived from Latin, meaning \"stretched out\". Cirrocumulus stratiformis occurs as very small cirrocumulus clouds that cover a large part of the sky. This type of cloud always occurs in thin layers. There can be spaces or rifts between the individual cloudlets in the layer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4360868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4360868", "title": "Common Information Model (electricity)", "text": "Common Information Model (electricity)\n\nIn electric power transmission and distribution, the Common Information Model (CIM), a standard developed by the electric power industry that has been officially adopted by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), aims to allow application software to exchange information about an electrical network.\n\nThe CIM is currently maintained as a UML model. It defines a common vocabulary and basic ontology for aspects of the electric power industry. The CIM models the network itself using the 'wires model'. This describes the basic components used to transport electricity. Measurements of power are modeled by another class. These measurements support the management of powerflow at the transmission level, and by extension, the modeling of power through a revenue meter on the distribution network. The CIM can be used to derive 'design artifacts' (e.g. XML Schema, RDF Schema) as needed for the integration of related application software.\n\nThe CIM is also used to derive messages for the wholesale energy market with the framework for energy market communications, IEC 62325. The European style market profile is a profile derivation from the CIM to harmonize the energy market data exchanges in Europe. ENTSO-E is a major contributor to the European style market profile.\n\nThe standard that defines the core packages of the CIM is IEC 61970-301, with a focus on the needs of electricity transmission, where related applications include energy management system, SCADA, planning and optimization. The IEC 61970-501 and 61970-452 standards define an XML format for network model exchanges using RDF. The IEC 61968 series of standards extend the CIM to meet the needs of electrical distribution, where related applications include distribution management system, outage management system, planning, metering, work management, geographic information system, asset management, customer information systems and enterprise resource planning.\n\nCIM and Substation Configuration Language (SCL) are developed in parallel under different working groups of IEC TC 57. Though both have the ability to exchange model and configuration information between different equipment or tools and use XML for storage, there are lot of differences between both the standards.\n\n\nThere are applications which use both these standards and there will be significant improvements on interoperability and data exchange between the applications if SCL model can be transformed into CIM based models. Without the harmonization of these standards, the development and implementation of systems and applications will result in a significant amount of engineering and design that applies to only one implementation. The harmonization can be done by mixing equipment topological approach of CIM and functionality approach of SCL. IEC TC57 WG19 is involved in the harmonization CIM & SCL. This will involve the following steps\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2985627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2985627", "title": "Condurrite", "text": "Condurrite\n\nCondurrite is a name given to a mixture of cuprite, domeykite and tenorite. It takes its name from the Great Condurrow Mine at Troon, Cornwall in the United Kingdom, which is regarded as the type locality.\n"}
{"id": "753403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753403", "title": "Dawn chorus (electromagnetic)", "text": "Dawn chorus (electromagnetic)\n\nThe electromagnetic dawn chorus is a phenomenon that occurs most often at or shortly after dawn local time. With the proper radio equipment, dawn chorus can be converted to sounds that resemble birds' dawn chorus (by coincidence).\n\nThe electromagnetic dawn chorus is believed to be generated by a Doppler-shifted cyclotron interaction between anisotropic distributions of energetic (> 40 keV) electrons and ambient background VLF noise. These energetic electrons are generally injected into the inner magnetosphere at the onset of the substorm expansion phase. Dawn choruses occur more frequently during magnetic storms.\n\nThis phenomenon also occurs during aurorae, when it is termed an auroral chorus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53867357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53867357", "title": "Dublin Waste-to-Energy Facility", "text": "Dublin Waste-to-Energy Facility\n\nThe Dublin Waste-to-Energy Facility, also known as the Poolbeg Incinerator, is a waste-to-energy plant serving the Greater Dublin Area, located on the Poolbeg peninsula. The plant is capable of producing up to 60 megawatts of electricity, enough to power 80,000 homes, and provide district heating for up to 50,000 homes in the Dublin area. The facility will process up to 600,000 tonnes of waste per year. Poolbeg accepted its first delivery of waste on the 24th of April 2017.\n\nThe proposal to build an incinerator at this location provoked controversy since its inception in 1997 with concerns about traffic and emissions, but construction work finally started in 2014.\n\nOn June 8, 2017, eleven people were hospitalised after an ‘uncontrolled release’ of lime inside the flue gas treatment area inside the plant. Covanta, the operator of the plant, was ordered to temporarily cease the incineration process at the facility by the Health and Safety Authority.\n"}
{"id": "958305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=958305", "title": "Ecoregions in the Philippines", "text": "Ecoregions in the Philippines\n\nThe Philippine archipelago is one of the world's great reservoirs of biodiversity and endemism. The archipelago includes over 7000 islands, and a total land area of 300,780 km².\n\nThe Philippines was never connected to mainland Asia via land bridges, so the flora and fauna of the islands had to cross ocean straits to reach the Philippines. The Philippines is part of the Indomalaya ecozone, and its flora and fauna is mostly derived from tropical Asia. Botanically, the Philippines are part of Malesia, a floristic province that includes the Malay Peninsula, Indonesia, and New Guinea. Most of the Malesian flora is derived from tropical Asia, including the dipterocarps, which are the characteristic tree of the Philippine forests. Elements of the Antarctic flora, which originated in the ancient southern hemisphere supercontinent of Gondwana, are also present, including ancient conifers like podocarps (\"Podocarpus, Nageia, Sundacarpus\") and araucarias (\"Agathis\").\n\nThe ecoregions of the Philippines are defined primarily by the sea levels during the Ice Ages, which were 120 meters lower than at present, as billions of gallons of water were locked away in huge continental ice sheets. This drop in sea level connected many presently separate islands into larger islands, which allowed for exchanges of flora and fauna:\n\nThese formerly linked islands each constitute a separate ecoregion, as does Mindoro, which remained separate from the rest, along with a few smaller islands, notably Camiguin, Sibuyan, and Siquijor.\n\nEach group of islands that were linked by land bridges in the ice ages also constitutes a separate faunal region. The lack of a land bridge to the Asian continent prevented most of the Asian megafauna, including elephants, rhinoceros, tapirs, tigers, leopards, and gibbons, from reaching the Philippines, although they do inhabit the adjacent Indonesian islands of Sundaland, which were formerly linked to the Asian continent by lowered sea levels.\n\nThe other main factor that defines the Philippine ecoregions is elevation; the high mountains of Luzon and Mindanao host distinct montane rain forest ecoregions. The mountains of Luzon are also home to the Luzon tropical pine forests.\n\nTropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests<br>\nTropical and subtropical coniferous forests<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43252188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43252188", "title": "Energy in Tanzania", "text": "Energy in Tanzania\n\nMost electricity in Tanzania is generated using gas; hydropower is also a significant source of power. Tanzania has a capacity of 1,521 MW with only 60% of this power available, most of the time, as it highly depends on hydroelectric plants (38% of installed capacities). Only 24% of urban areas have access to electricity while 7% of rural areas have it. 65% of Tanzania’s population lives in these rural areas. Though the country's supply of electricity nearly doubled between 2005 and 2011, only about 20% of Tanzanians are on the electrical grid. The electrical supply varies, particularly when droughts disrupt hydropower electric generation; rolling blackouts are implemented as necessary. Nearly a quarter of electricity generated is lost because of poor transmission infrastructure. The unreliability of the electrical supply has hindered the development of Tanzanian industry.\n\nDar Es Salaam is a key area in the supply chain of petroleum across Tanzania and as an emerging industrial zone, the port attracts major international companies. A major supplier of petroleum in the region is Dalbit Petroleum who rely on the port as part of their operations and have developed a well-organized supply chain through the port since the company’s regional inception in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "50011784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50011784", "title": "Ethiopia-Yemen Continental Flood Basalts", "text": "Ethiopia-Yemen Continental Flood Basalts\n\nThe Ethiopia-Yemen Continental Flood Basalts were erupted during the Oligocene. They cover an area of about 600,000 km in Yemen and Ethiopia, with an estimated volume of greater than 350,000 km. They are associated with the Afar Plume and the initiation of rifting in the southern Red Sea and Gulf of Aden.\n\nIn Ethiopia flood basalts cover an old erosion surface with occasional flat areas or peneplains. Burial of old surfaces by lava has preserved laterite soils on both Yemen and Ethiopia.\n\nThe lavas of the Ethiopia-Yemen CFB show systematic variations in composition both vertically and laterally. Most of the lavas are basalts, but those closest to the Afar Triangle being very high Titanium transitional basalts and picrites, passing outwards into high-Ti tholeiitic basalts and finally into low-Ti tholeiitic basalts. The sequence is also an example of bimodal volcanism and the uppermost part typically contains significant amounts of rhyolitic lavas.\n"}
{"id": "47860163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47860163", "title": "Exergonix, Inc.", "text": "Exergonix, Inc.\n\nExergonix Inc, is an energy storage company based in Kansas City, Missouri. It was founded in 2010, after spinning out of Kokam America, Inc., which was acquired by Dow Chemical Company in 2009. Exergonix develops, manufactures and deploys community-level and grid energy storage to supply peak-shaving, demand-management, and smart grid capabilities to the grid and micro-grid.\n\nThe company designs and builds renewable energy solutions for a wide range of applications including storage for solar and wind power, utility management, the military, telecommunications cell towers and emergency back-up.\n\nAccording to the company president’s statement to the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in 2012, the company’s mission is to make renewable energy cost effective and will allow nations around the world to implement a worldwide, workable, smart and decentralized utility grid. The company makes a “promising energy storage application”.\n\nThe facility sits atop 83 acres of land on Missouri Route 291 and U.S. Route 50, previously owned by Pfizer, Inc. Valued at $90 million, the company raised another $2 million from local angel investor group, and a $1.4 million package from the City of Lee’s Summit, Missouri Also from Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent, the company further secured $8 million in federal funding from a defense spending bill, to bring a new manufacturing plant to Missouri. In 2011, the \"Green Energy Park\" was dialed back to $50 million, after $100 million federal money fell through.\nThe CEO had approached state legislators to seek $650 million for a manufacturing plant in the same area.\n\nThe CEO approached the United States Department of Defense with new battery technology and although the agency was interested, its budget was committed. Senator Kit Bond was then approached with the request to include the money in the department's budget.\n\nNissanka said: \"I would say that the reason we got the money has nothing to do with a high-power lobbyist, we got it because of our technology. Earmarks unfortunately are the only way you can drive new technology into the market.\" Nissanka provided testimony during Senator Roy Blunt’s attempt at Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation Act of 2013.\n\nExergonix received $2 million to build and install a 1 megawatt utility storage at Whiteman Air Force Base in Knob Noster, Missouri in order to demonstrate the ability of the US military to provide safe and effective energy security solutions compounded with renewable energy. The battery technology offered an improved cycle life, lighter weight, wider operating temperature range and true maintenance-free design. Applications include many aerospace and defense uses, such as weapon platforms, aircraft and future land warrior programs.\n\nIn 2010, as part of Emanuel Cleaver’s Green Impact Zone in Kansas City, Exergonix along with Siemens, Electric Power Research Institute, Landis+Gyr, Intergraph, Tendril, City of Kansas City and the Mid-America Regional Council launched a pilot project for SmartGrid development under Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability with funding from American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 in partnership with Kansas City Power and Light. The project aimed to generate greater energy efficiency, reduced cost, improved reliability, more transparent and interactive information, and an improved environmental footprint.\n\nPresident Barack Obama expressed bright futures talking to Smith Electric Vehicles’s USA branch about clean technology jobs, where Kokam America was the battery supplier, and CEO Don Nissanka (also formerly Kokam America President and CEO) was on the board. Besides Smith Electric, Nissanka had customers in the EV market, but he declined to disclose any of their names. He was also on the 18-member taskforce on Automotive Jobs Task Force, appointed by Governor Jay Nixon in 2009.\n\n\"The future is here for us in terms of the battery technology,\" said Nissanka\n\nNissanka also initiated the “Missouri Innovation Campus” (MIC) which was Obama’s travel stop for a speech at University of Central Missouri.\n\n“I think the president is right on, I think the administration has done a good job of putting enough money into this economy right now. We’re in a depression and we needed this money to fuel the economy and fuel the jobs. I see it happening. It’s happening around the country”.\n\nAccording to \"InformationWeek\", the company along with a handful of other battery storage firms, shares Tesla’s ambition of disruptive home power consumption.\n\nIn May 2016, the company acquired Coda Energy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5505266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5505266", "title": "Foam latex", "text": "Foam latex\n\nFoam latex is a lightweight, soft form of latex which is used in masks and facial prosthetics to change a person's outward appearance. \"The Wizard of Oz\" was one of the first films to make extensive use of foam latex prosthetics in the 1930s. Since then it has been a staple of film, television, and stage productions, as well as finding use in a number of other fields. Its original formulation began in 1936 and was the work of makeup chemist, Charles Gemora. It was first used on The General Died at Dawn for some Asian eyelids on actor Akim Tamiroff.\n\nTo create foam latex, a liquid latex base is mixed with various additives and whipped into a foam, then poured or injected into a mold and baked in an oven to cure. The main components of foam latex are the latex base, a foaming agent (to help it whip into a froth), a gelling agent (to convert the liquid foam into a gel), and a curing agent (to turn the gelled foam latex into a solid when baked). A number of additional additives can also be added depending on the required use of the foam.\n\nFoam latex has also seen heavy use in the field of stop motion animation, being used to form the skin and muscles of many puppets. The characters in \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\" and \"Coraline\" were made partially of foam latex. It is also used in place of clay in productions such as \"Celebrity Deathmatch\" in which the various celebrities who appear to be made of clay are in fact foam latex over wire armature.\n\nArtists such as Lordi and GWAR wear costumes that include this material.\n\nLatex foam is also widespread in the manufacture of modern soccer goalkeeper gloves. The material has proven to be the most effective way of allowing players to grip the football in wet and dry playing conditions, as well as providing damping properties which help in catching. A variety of treatments are applied to latex foam to produce different types of foam with varying properties to assist performance. Some, for example, are designed to offer a high level of grip; whereas others are designed to offer maximum durability.\n"}
{"id": "11572719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11572719", "title": "Frog jumping contest", "text": "Frog jumping contest\n\nFrog jumping is a competitive pastime for humans in which frogs are entered into competitions to jump certain distances. Frog jumping contests are held in small communities scattered around the United States, as part of the folk culture.\n\nFrog jumping was made famous in a short story by Mark Twain, \"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County.\" An event, inspired by the Twain story, has been held annually in Angels Camp, in California's Calaveras County, since 1928, with other events held in Indiana, Ohio, Washington, Maine, Missouri, Louisiana, New York, and also in Manitoba, Canada.\n\nWith 4,000 contestants in 2007, the Calaveras County contest has imposed strict rules regulating the frogs's welfare, including limiting the daily number of a frog's jumps and mandating the playing of calming music in their enclosures. Entering specimens of the California Red-legged Frog in the competition, since it is an endangered species, is illegal. (It is also illegal, and likewise considered poor sportsmanship, for any competing frog to be weighted down by any means, as the frog in the Twain story was by the stranger who cheated in the contest as described.) Participants entering the longest-jumping frog were to win a $750 prize, or $5,000 if their frog were to break the 1986 record of 21 feet, 5¾ inches, set by \"Rosie the Ribeter.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262927", "title": "Groundwater", "text": "Groundwater\n\nGroundwater is the water present beneath Earth's surface in soil pore spaces and in the fractures of rock formations. A unit of rock or an unconsolidated deposit is called an aquifer when it can yield a usable quantity of water. The depth at which soil pore spaces or fractures and voids in rock become completely saturated with water is called the water table. Groundwater is recharged from and eventually flows to the surface naturally; natural discharge often occurs at springs and seeps, and can form oases or wetlands. Groundwater is also often withdrawn for agricultural, municipal, and industrial use by constructing and operating extraction wells. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, also called groundwater hydrology.\n\nTypically, groundwater is thought of as water flowing through shallow aquifers, but, in the technical sense, it can also contain soil moisture, permafrost (frozen soil), immobile water in very low permeability bedrock, and deep geothermal or oil formation water. Groundwater is hypothesized to provide lubrication that can possibly influence the movement of faults. It is likely that much of Earth's subsurface contains some water, which may be mixed with other fluids in some instances. Groundwater may not be confined only to Earth. The formation of some of the landforms observed on Mars may have been influenced by groundwater. There is also evidence that liquid water may also exist in the subsurface of Jupiter's moon Europa.\n\nGroundwater is often cheaper, more convenient and less vulnerable to pollution than surface water. Therefore, it is commonly used for public water supplies. For example, groundwater provides the largest source of usable water storage in the United States, and California annually withdraws the largest amount of groundwater of all the states. Underground reservoirs contain far more water than the capacity of all surface reservoirs and lakes in the US, including the Great Lakes. Many municipal water supplies are derived solely from groundwater.\n\nPolluted groundwater is less visible, but more difficult to clean up, than pollution in rivers and lakes. Groundwater pollution most often results from improper disposal of wastes on land. Major sources include industrial and household chemicals and garbage landfills, excessive fertilizers and pesticides used in agriculture, industrial waste lagoons, tailings and process wastewater from mines, industrial fracking, oil field brine pits, leaking underground oil storage tanks and pipelines, sewage sludge and septic systems.\n\nAn \"aquifer\" is a layer of porous substrate that contains and transmits groundwater. When water can flow directly between the surface and the saturated zone of an aquifer, the aquifer is unconfined. The deeper parts of unconfined aquifers are usually more saturated since gravity causes water to flow downward.\n\nThe upper level of this saturated layer of an unconfined aquifer is called the \"water table\" or \"phreatic surface\". Below the water table, where in general all pore spaces are saturated with water, is the phreatic zone.\n\nSubstrate with low porosity that permits limited transmission of groundwater is known as an \"aquitard\". An \"aquiclude\" is a substrate with porosity that is so low it is virtually impermeable to groundwater.\n\nA \"confined aquifer\" is an aquifer that is overlain by a relatively impermeable layer of rock or substrate such as an aquiclude or aquitard. If a confined aquifer follows a downward grade from its \"recharge zone\", groundwater can become pressurized as it flows. This can create artesian wells that flow freely without the need of a pump and rise to a higher elevation than the static water table at the above, unconfined, aquifer.\n\nThe characteristics of aquifers vary with the geology and structure of the substrate and topography in which they occur. In general, the more productive aquifers occur in sedimentary geologic formations. By comparison, weathered and fractured crystalline rocks yield smaller quantities of groundwater in many environments. Unconsolidated to poorly cemented alluvial materials that have accumulated as valley-filling sediments in major river valleys and geologically subsiding structural basins are included among the most productive sources of groundwater.\n\nThe high specific heat capacity of water and the insulating effect of soil and rock can mitigate the effects of climate and maintain groundwater at a relatively steady temperature. In some places where groundwater temperatures are maintained by this effect at about 10 °C (50 °F), groundwater can be used for controlling the temperature inside structures at the surface. For example, during hot weather relatively cool groundwater can be pumped through radiators in a home and then returned to the ground in another well. During cold seasons, because it is relatively warm, the water can be used in the same way as a source of heat for heat pumps that is much more efficient than using air.\n\nThe volume of groundwater in an aquifer can be estimated by measuring water levels in local wells and by examining geologic records from well-drilling to determine the extent, depth and thickness of water-bearing sediments and rocks. Before an investment is made in production wells, test wells may be drilled to measure the depths at which water is encountered and collect samples of soils, rock and water for laboratory analyses. Pumping tests can be performed in test wells to determine flow characteristics of the aquifer.\n\nGroundwater makes up about twenty percent of the world's fresh water supply, which is about 0.61% of the entire world's water, including oceans and permanent ice. Global groundwater storage is roughly equal to the total amount of freshwater stored in the snow and ice pack, including the north and south poles. This makes it an important resource that can act as a natural storage that can buffer against shortages of surface water, as in during times of drought.\n\nGroundwater is naturally replenished by surface water from precipitation, streams, and rivers when this recharge reaches the water table.\n\nGroundwater can be a long-term 'reservoir' of the natural water cycle (with residence times from days to millennia), as opposed to short-term water reservoirs like the atmosphere and fresh surface water (which have residence times from minutes to years). The figure shows how deep groundwater (which is quite distant from the surface recharge) can take a very long time to complete its natural cycle.\n\nThe Great Artesian Basin in central and eastern Australia is one of the largest confined aquifer systems in the world, extending for almost 2 million km. By analysing the trace elements in water sourced from deep underground, hydrogeologists have been able to determine that water extracted from these aquifers can be more than 1 million years old.\n\nBy comparing the age of groundwater obtained from different parts of the Great Artesian Basin, hydrogeologists have found it increases in age across the basin. Where water recharges the aquifers along the Eastern Divide, ages are young. As groundwater flows westward across the continent, it increases in age, with the oldest groundwater occurring in the western parts. This means that in order to have travelled almost 1000 km from the source of recharge in 1 million years, the groundwater flowing through the Great Artesian Basin travels at an average rate of about 1 metre per year.\n\nRecent research has demonstrated that evaporation of groundwater can play a significant role in the local water cycle, especially in arid regions. Scientists in Saudi Arabia have proposed plans to recapture and recycle this evaporative moisture for crop irrigation. In the opposite photo, a 50-centimeter-square reflective carpet, made of small adjacent plastic cones, was placed in a plant-free dry desert area for five months, without rain or irrigation. It managed to capture and condense enough ground vapor to bring to life naturally buried seeds underneath it, with a green area of about 10% of the carpet area. It is expected that, if seeds were put down before placing this carpet, a much wider area would become green.\n\nCertain problems have beset the use of groundwater around the world. Just as river waters have been over-used and polluted in many parts of the world, so too have aquifers. The big difference is that aquifers are out of sight. The other major problem is that water management agencies, when calculating the \"sustainable yield\" of aquifer and river water, have often counted the same water twice, once in the aquifer, and once in its connected river. This problem, although understood for centuries, has persisted, partly through inertia within government agencies. In Australia, for example, prior to the statutory reforms initiated by the Council of Australian Governments water reform framework in the 1990s, many Australian states managed groundwater and surface water through separate government agencies, an approach beset by rivalry and poor communication.\n\nIn general, the time lags inherent in the dynamic response of groundwater to development have been ignored by water management agencies, decades after scientific understanding of the issue was consolidated. In brief, the effects of groundwater overdraft (although undeniably real) may take decades or centuries to manifest themselves. In a classic study in 1982, Bredehoeft and colleagues modeled a situation where groundwater extraction in an intermontane basin withdrew the entire annual recharge, leaving ‘nothing’ for the natural groundwater-dependent vegetation community. Even when the borefield was situated close to the vegetation, 30% of the original vegetation demand could still be met by the lag inherent in the system after 100 years. By year 500, this had reduced to 0%, signalling complete death of the groundwater-dependent vegetation. The science has been available to make these calculations for decades; however, in general water management agencies have ignored effects that will appear outside the rough timeframe of political elections (3 to 5 years). Marios Sophocleous argued strongly that management agencies must define and use appropriate timeframes in groundwater planning. This will mean calculating groundwater withdrawal permits based on predicted effects decades, sometimes centuries in the future.\n\nAs water moves through the landscape, it collects soluble salts, mainly sodium chloride. Where such water enters the atmosphere through evapotranspiration, these salts are left behind. In irrigation districts, poor drainage of soils and surface aquifers can result in water tables' coming to the surface in low-lying areas. Major land degradation problems of soil salinity and waterlogging result, combined with increasing levels of salt in surface waters. As a consequence, major damage has occurred to local economies and environments.\n\nFour important effects are worthy of brief mention. First, flood mitigation schemes, intended to protect infrastructure built on floodplains, have had the unintended consequence of reducing aquifer recharge associated with natural flooding. Second, prolonged depletion of groundwater in extensive aquifers can result in land subsidence, with associated infrastructure damage – as well as, third, saline intrusion. Fourth, draining acid sulphate soils, often found in low-lying coastal plains, can result in acidification and pollution of formerly freshwater and estuarine streams.\n\nAnother cause for concern is that groundwater drawdown from over-allocated aquifers has the potential to cause severe damage to both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems – in some cases very conspicuously but in others quite imperceptibly because of the extended period over which the damage occurs.\n\nGroundwater is a highly useful and often abundant resource. However, over-use, over-abstraction or overdraft, can cause major problems to human users and to the environment. The most evident problem (as far as human groundwater use is concerned) is a lowering of the water table beyond the reach of existing wells. As a consequence, wells must be drilled deeper to reach the groundwater; in some places (e.g., California, Texas, and India) the water table has dropped hundreds of feet because of extensive well pumping. In the Punjab region of India, for example, groundwater levels have dropped 10 meters since 1979, and the rate of depletion is accelerating. A lowered water table may, in turn, cause other problems such as groundwater-related subsidence and saltwater intrusion.\n\nGroundwater is also ecologically important. The importance of groundwater to ecosystems is often overlooked, even by freshwater biologists and ecologists. Groundwaters sustain rivers, wetlands, and lakes, as well as subterranean ecosystems within karst or alluvial aquifers.\n\nNot all ecosystems need groundwater, of course. Some terrestrial ecosystems – for example, those of the open deserts and similar arid environments – exist on irregular rainfall and the moisture it delivers to the soil, supplemented by moisture in the air. While there are other terrestrial ecosystems in more hospitable environments where groundwater plays no central role, groundwater is in fact fundamental to many of the world’s major ecosystems. Water flows between groundwaters and surface waters. Most rivers, lakes, and wetlands are fed by, and (at other places or times) feed groundwater, to varying degrees. Groundwater feeds soil moisture through percolation, and many terrestrial vegetation communities depend directly on either groundwater or the percolated soil moisture above the aquifer for at least part of each year. Hyporheic zones (the mixing zone of streamwater and groundwater) and riparian zones are examples of ecotones largely or totally dependent on groundwater.\n\nSubsidence occurs when too much water is pumped out from underground, deflating the space below the above-surface, and thus causing the ground to collapse. The result can look like craters on plots of land. This occurs because, in its natural equilibrium state, the hydraulic pressure of groundwater in the pore spaces of the aquifer and the aquitard supports some of the weight of the overlying sediments. When groundwater is removed from aquifers by excessive pumping, pore pressures in the aquifer drop and compression of the aquifer may occur. This compression may be partially recoverable if pressures rebound, but much of it is not. When the aquifer gets compressed, it may cause land subsidence, a drop in the ground surface. The city of New Orleans, Louisiana is actually below sea level today, and its subsidence is partly caused by removal of groundwater from the various aquifer/aquitard systems beneath it. In the first half of the 20th century, the San Joaquin Valley experienced significant subsidence, in some places up to 8.5 metres (28 feet) due to groundwater removal. Cities on river deltas, including Venice in Italy, and Bangkok in Thailand, have experienced surface subsidence; Mexico City, built on a former lake bed, has experienced rates of subsidence of up to 40 cm (1'3\") per year.\n\nIn general, in very humid or undeveloped regions, the shape of the water table mimics the slope of the surface. The recharge zone of an aquifer near the seacoast is likely to be inland, often at considerable distance. In these coastal areas, a lowered water table may induce sea water to reverse the flow toward the land. Sea water moving inland is called a saltwater intrusion. In alternative fashion, salt from mineral beds may leach into the groundwater of its own accord.\n\nPolluted groundwater is less visible, but more difficult to clean up, than pollution in rivers and lakes. Groundwater pollution most often results from improper disposal of wastes on land. Major sources include industrial and household chemicals and garbage landfills, industrial waste lagoons, tailings and process wastewater from mines, oil field brine pits, leaking underground oil storage tanks and pipelines, sewage sludge and septic systems. Polluted groundwater is mapped by sampling soils and groundwater near suspected or known sources of pollution, to determine the extent of the pollution, and to aid in the design of groundwater remediation systems. Preventing groundwater pollution near potential sources such as landfills requires lining the bottom of a landfill with watertight materials, collecting any leachate with drains, and keeping rainwater off any potential contaminants, along with regular monitoring of nearby groundwater to verify that contaminants have not leaked into the groundwater.\n\nGroundwater pollution, from pollutants released to the ground that can work their way down into groundwater, can create a contaminant plume within an aquifer. Pollution can occur from landfills, naturally occurring arsenic, on-site sanitation systems or other point sources, such as petrol stations with leaking underground storage tanks, or leaking sewers.\n\nMovement of water and dispersion within the aquifer spreads the pollutant over a wider area, its advancing boundary often called a plume edge, which can then intersect with groundwater wells or daylight into surface water such as seeps and springs, making the water supplies unsafe for humans and wildlife. Different mechanism have influence on the transport of pollutants, e.g. diffusion, adsorption, precipitation, decay, in the groundwater. The interaction of groundwater contamination with surface waters is analyzed by use of hydrology transport models.\n\nThe danger of pollution of municipal supplies is minimized by locating wells in areas of deep groundwater and impermeable soils, and careful testing and monitoring of the aquifer and nearby potential pollution sources.\n\nAround one-third of the world’s population drinks water from groundwater resources. Of this, about 10 percent, approximately 300 million people, obtains water from groundwater resources that are heavily polluted with arsenic or fluoride. These trace elements derive mainly from natural sources by leaching from rock and sediments.\n\nIn 2008, the Swiss Aquatic Research Institute, Eawag, presented a new method by which hazard maps could be produced for geogenic toxic substances in groundwater. This provides an efficient way of determining which wells should be tested.\n\nIn 2016, the research group made its knowledge freely available on the Groundwater Assessment Platform GAP. This offers specialists worldwide the possibility of uploading their own measurement data, visually displaying them and producing risk maps for areas of their choice. GAP also serves as a knowledge-sharing forum for enabling further development of methods for removing toxic substances from water.\n\nIn the United States, laws regarding ownership and use of groundwater are generally state laws; however, regulation of groundwater to minimize pollution of groundwater is by both states and the federal-level Environmental Protection Agency. Ownership and use rights to groundwater typically follow one of three main systems:\nOther rules in the United States include:\n\nIn India, groundwater regulation is controlled and maintained by the central government and four organizations; 1) Central Water Commission, 2) Central Ground Water, 3) Central Ground Water Authority, 4) Central Pollution Control Board.\n\nLaws and Regulations regarding India's Groundwater:\n\n\nA significant portion of Canada’s population relies on the use of groundwater. In Canada, roughly 8.9 million people or 30% of Canada’s population, rely on groundwater for domestic use and approximately two thirds of these users live in rural areas.\n\n\nA large federal government groundwater initiative, is the development of the multi-barrier approach. The multi-barrier approach is a system of processes to prevent the deterioration of drinking water from the source. The multi-barrier consists of three key elements:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22990818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22990818", "title": "IEEE Medal in Power Engineering", "text": "IEEE Medal in Power Engineering\n\nThe IEEE Medal in Power Engineering was created by the Board of Directors of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2008, and presented for the first time in 2010. This award is given to an individual with outstanding contributions in power engineering. The official more extended version is: \"for outstanding contributions to the technology associated with the generation, transmission, distribution, application, and utilization of electric power for the betterment of society\".\n\nRecipients of this award receive a gold medal, a bronze replica, a certificate and an honorarium.\n\nThe sponsors of this award are the IEEE societies Industry Applications, Industrial Electronics, Power Electronics, and Power & Energy.\n\nThe following people have received the IEEE Medal in Power Engineering:\n"}
{"id": "40111102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40111102", "title": "Intelligent Energy", "text": "Intelligent Energy\n\nIntelligent Energy is a fuel cell engineering company focused on the development and commercialisation of its PEM fuel cell technologies for a range of markets including automotive, stationary power and UAVs. We are headquartered in the UK, with offices and representation in the US, Japan, India, and China.\n\nThe origins of Intelligent Energy began at Loughborough University in the UK during the late 1980s, when the University became one of Europe’s first research and development centres for proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology. In 1995, the UK’s first kW-level PEM fuel cell stack was produced by the R&D team. In June of that year, Advanced Power Sources (APS) Ltd was founded as a spin-out from Loughborough University by Paul Adcock, Phil Mitchell, Jon Moore and Anthony Newbold, and was the first company in the UK formed specifically to address the development and commercialisation of PEM fuel cells.\n\nFounded by Harry Bradbury, Intelligent Energy was established in 2001, acquiring Advanced Power Sources Ltd, together with its personnel and fuel cell related intellectual property that originated from research conducted by both APS and Loughborough University into PEM fuel cell technology. This triggered investment and enabled the company to grow its business activities.\nIn March 2005, it launched the ENV, the world’s first purpose-built fuel cell motorbike which gained the company recognition as a Technology Pioneer by the World Economic Forum in 2006. The ENV incorporated the company’s air-cooled fuel cell technology hybridised with a battery pack to provide 6 kW peak load to the motor to improve performance during spikes in power demand i.e. acceleration.\n\nIn 2007, a partnership was announced with Suzuki Motor Corporation to develop hydrogen fuel cells for a range of vehicles. In 2008, Intelligent Energy established the company, IE-CHP in a joint venture with SSE plc, to develop fuel cells and other technologies for CHP (Combined Heat and Power) applications. In the same year, Intelligent Energy also produced the power system for the first fuel cell powered manned flight in conjunction with Boeing.\nIn 2010, its fuel-cell taxi received The Engineer Technology and Innovation Award.\n\nIn March 2011, the Suzuki Burgman fuel cell scooter, equipped with Intelligent Energy’s fuel cell system, became the first fuel cell vehicle to achieve European Whole Vehicle Type Approval.\n\nIn 2012, SMILE FC System Corporation, a joint venture between Intelligent Energy and Suzuki Motor Corporation, was established to develop and manufacture air-cooled fuel cell systems for the automotive and a range of industry sectors.\nDuring the same year, a fleet of fuel cell taxis incorporating Intelligent Energy’s technology was used during the 2012 London Olympics. Part of the European Union-funded HyTEC (Hydrogen Technologies in European Cities) project launched in 2011, the taxis were used to transport VIP guests of the Mayor of London around the city.\nIn 2013, SMILE FC Corporation announced that it had established a ready-to-scale production line for its fuel cell systems, utilising Intelligent Energy’s semi-automated production technology. IE-CHP also received CE certification for its first-generation product, a 10 kWe/12 kWth combined heat and power (CHP) fuel cell. The certification allows the product to be sold in the European Economic Area, confirming that the product satisfies all the EU regulatory and conformity assessment procedures covering the design, manufacture, and testing of the system.\n\nIntelligent Energy was acquired by Meditor Energy, part of the Meditor Group, in October 2017.\n\nIntelligent Energy's fuel-cell technology is divided into two platforms: air-cooled (AC) and evaporatively-cooled (EC). The air-cooled fuel cell systems use low-power fans to provide cooling and the oxidant supply for operation. Heat from the fuel cell stack is conducted to cooling plates and removed through airflow channels, a simplified and cost-effective system for the power range from a few watts to several kilowatts. They are used in a wide range of UAV, stationary power and automotive applications for two-wheel and small car range extender applications.\n\nEvaporatively-cooled (EC) fuel cell systems provide power generation from a few kilowatts up to 200 kW. Efficient thermal management of the EC fuel cell stack reduces system complexity, mass and cost. These systems are designed for high-volume, low-cost manufacturing, and use modular architecture that can be quickly modified to suit the application.\n\nThe firm's fuel cell stacks have been developed for small and large cars, scooters and motorbikes. \nIn 2010, the company was involved in the development of the report entitled “A portfolio of power-trains for Europe: a fact-based analysis. The role of Battery Electric Vehicles, Plug-In Hybrids and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles”, produced by McKinsey & Company with input from car manufacturers, oil and gas suppliers, utilities and industrial gas companies, wind turbine and electrolyser companies as well as governmental and non-governmental organisations. The report concluded, amongst other findings, that fuel cell vehicles are technology ready, and cost competitive, and that decarbonisation targets for Europe are unlikely to be met without the introduction of fuel cell powertrains.\n\nThe firm provides fuel cells to power UAVs and aerial drones. Its UAV Fuel Cell Modules run on hydrogen and ambient air to produce DC power in a lightweight package providing extended flight times when compared to battery systems.\n\nThe company’s fuel cell systems are used to provide diesel replacement and backup power initially for telecom towers but also for other sectors. The company has field proven its fuel cell products in the Indian telecommunications market with a tower uptime of close to 100%.\n\nThe company is a founding member of UKH Mobility, a government and industry group aiming to accelerate the commercial roll out of hydrogen vehicles in 2014/15;\nIt is also a member of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), the US-based trade association for the fuel cell and hydrogen energy industry, dedicated to the commercialisation of fuel cells and hydrogen energy technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "380590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380590", "title": "Jarilo", "text": "Jarilo\n\nJarylo (Cyrillic: Ярило or Ярила; ; ; ; ), alternatively Yarylo, Iarilo, or Gerovit, is a Slavic god of vegetation, fertility and springtime.\n\nThe Proto-Slavic root *jarъ (jar), from Proto-Indo-European *yōr-, *yeh₁ro-, from *yeh₁r-, means \"spring\" or \"summer\", \"strong\", \"furious\", loaded with youthful life-force.\nThis youthful life-force was considered sacred in the Slavic pre-christian religion and the god personifying this sacred force was thus called Jarovit, or hypocoristically Jarilo.\n\nThe only historic source that mentions this deity is a 12th-century biography of the proselytizing German bishop Otto of Bamberg, who, during his expeditions to convert the pagan tribes of Wendish and Polabian Slavs, encountered festivals in honor of the war-god Gerovit in the cities of Wolgast and Havelberg. Gerovit is most likely a German corruption of the original Slavic name \"Jarovit\".\n\nUp until the 19th century in Russia, Belarus and Serbia, folk festivals called \"Jarilo\" were celebrated in late spring or early summer. Early researchers of Slavic mythology recognised in them relics of pagan ceremonies in honor of an eponymous spring deity. \nIn Northern Croatia and Southern Slovenia, especially White Carniola, similar spring festivals were called \"Jurjevo\" or \"Zeleni Juraj\" or \"Zeleni Jurij\" (Green George), nominally dedicated to St. George, and fairly similar to the Jarilo festivals of other Slavic nations.\n\nAll of these spring festivals were basically alike: processions of villagers would go around for a walk in the country or through villages on this day. Something or someone was identified to be Jarilo or Juraj: a doll made of straw, a man or a child adorned with green branches, or a girl dressed like a man, riding on a horse. Certain songs were sung which alluded to Juraj/Jarilo's return from a distant land across the sea, the return of spring into the world, blessings, fertility and abundance to come.\n\nRadoslav Katičić and Vitomir Belaj attempted to reconstruct the mythology surrounding Jarilo.\nAccording to these authors, he was a fairly typical life-death-rebirth deity, believed to be (re)born and killed every year. His mythical life cycle followed the yearly life of various wheat plants, from seeding through vegetation to harvest.\n\nJarilo was a son of the supreme Slavic god of thunder, Perun, his lost, missing, tenth son, born on the last night of February, the festival of \"Velja Noć\" (Great Night), the pagan Slavic celebration of the New Year. On the same night, however, Jarilo was stolen from his father and taken to the world of the dead, where he was adopted and raised by Veles, Perun's enemy, Slavic god of the underworld and cattle. The Slavs believed the underworld to be an ever-green world of eternal spring and wet, grassy plains, where Jarilo grew up guarding the cattle of his adoptive father. In the mythical geography of ancient Slavs, the land of the dead was assumed to lie across the sea, where migrating birds would fly every winter.\n\nWith the advent of spring, Jarilo returned from the underworld, that is, bringing spring and fertility to the land. Spring festivals of Jurjevo/Jarilo that survived in later folklore celebrated his return. Katičić identified a key phrase of ancient mythical texts which described this sacred return of vegetation and fertility as a rhyme hoditi/roditi (to walk/to give birth to), which survived in folk songs:\n\nThe first of the gods to notice Jarilo's return to the living world was Morana, a goddess of death and nature, and also a daughter of Perun and Jarilo's twin-sister. The two of them would fall in love and court each other through a series of traditional, established rituals, imitated in various Slavic courting or wedding customs. The divine wedding between brother and sister, two children of the supreme god, was celebrated in a festival of summer solstice, today variously known as Ivanje or Ivan Kupala in the various Slavic countries. This sacred union of Jarilo and Morana, deities of vegetation and of nature, assured abundance, fertility and blessing to the earth, and also brought temporary peace between two major Slavic gods, Perun and Veles, signifying heaven and underworld. Thus, all mythical prerequisites were met for a bountiful and blessed harvest that would come in late summer.\n\nHowever, since Jarilo's life was ultimately tied to the vegetative cycle of the cereals, after the harvest (which was ritually seen as a murder of crops), Jarilo also met his death. The myth explained this by the fact that he was unfaithful to his wife, and so she (or her father Perun, or his other nine sons, her brothers) kills him in retribution. This rather gruesome death is in fact a ritual sacrifice, and Morana uses parts of Jarilo's body to build herself a new house. This is a mythical metaphor which alludes to rejuvenation of the entire cosmos, a concept fairly similar to that of Scandinavian myth of Ymir, a giant from whose body the gods created the world.\n\nWithout her husband, however, Morana turns into a frustrated old hag, a terrible and dangerous goddess of death, frost and upcoming winter, and eventually dies by the end of the year. At the beginning of the next year, both she and Jarilo are born again, and the entire myth starts anew.\n\nFrom comparison to Baltic mythology and from Slavic folklore accounts, one can deduce that Jarilo was associated with the Moon. His somewhat mischievous nature, which ultimately results in his betrayal of his wife, was likened to the Moon's changing phases.\n\nKatičić and Belaj suggest that the god had an equine characteristic. \nFolk accounts strongly emphasize the presence of a horse (in Belarusian festivals, for instance, Jarilo was symbolised by a girl dressed as a man and mounted on a horse), and also the fact Jarilo walked a long way and his feet are sore. Thus, he is a rider on a horse who also \"walks\".\n\n\nAll this led Katičić and Belaj to conclude that Jarilo himself was conceived of as a horse.\n\nJarilo became identified with St. George and St. John after the arrival of Christianity, because the festivities of those two saints fall in the period between the first grow of grass and leaves and harvest in the cycle of annual vegetation and fertility. This made them especially suitable as christian interpretations of this god.\n\nSome neopagans identify Jarilo with Dionysus, as they are both gods of fertility, forest, and youth, who die and rise again. Another similarity is his relationship with Persephone, Dionysus's sister, and in some cases lover, who is an underworld goddess just like Morana, Jarilo's wife and sister. They are also both sons of the respective sky deity. The Norse rebirth deity Baldr also bears close similarities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16743", "title": "Karl Marx", "text": "Karl Marx\n\nKarl Marx (; 5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, economist, historian, sociologist, political theorist, journalist and socialist revolutionary.\n\nBorn in Trier, Germany, to a Jewish middle-class family, Marx studied law and philosophy at university. Due to his political publications, Marx became stateless and lived in exile in London for decades, where he continued to develop his thought in collaboration with German thinker Friedrich Engels and publish his writings, researching in the reading room of the British Museum. His best-known titles are the 1848 pamphlet, \"The Communist Manifesto\", and the three-volume \"\". His political and philosophical thought had enormous influence on subsequent intellectual, economic and political history and his name has been used as an adjective, a noun and a school of social theory.\n\nMarx's theories about society, economics and politics—collectively understood as Marxism—hold that human societies develop through class struggle. In capitalism, this manifests itself in the conflict between the ruling classes (known as the bourgeoisie) that control the means of production and the working classes (known as the proletariat) that enable these means by selling their labour power in return for wages. Employing a critical approach known as historical materialism, Marx predicted that, like previous socio-economic systems, capitalism produced internal tensions which would lead to its self-destruction and replacement by a new system: socialism. For Marx, class antagonisms under capitalism, owing in part to its instability and crisis-prone nature, would eventuate the working class' development of class consciousness, leading to their conquest of political power and eventually the establishment of a classless, communist society constituted by a free association of producers. Marx actively pressed for its implementation, arguing that the working class should carry out organised revolutionary action to topple capitalism and bring about socio-economic emancipation.\n\nMarx has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history, and his work has been both lauded and criticised. His work in economics laid the basis for much of the current understanding of labour and its relation to capital, and subsequent economic thought. Many intellectuals, labour unions, artists and political parties worldwide have been influenced by Marx's work, with many modifying or adapting his ideas. Marx is typically cited as one of the principal architects of modern social science.\n\nMarx was born on 5 May 1818 to Heinrich Marx (1777–1838) and Henriette Pressburg (1788–1863). He was born at Brückengasse 664 in Trier, a town then part of the Kingdom of Prussia's Province of the Lower Rhine. Marx was ethnically Jewish. His maternal grandfather was a Dutch rabbi, while his paternal line had supplied Trier's rabbis since 1723, a role taken by his grandfather Meier Halevi Marx. His father, as a child known as Herschel, was the first in the line to receive a secular education. He became a lawyer and lived a relatively wealthy and middle-class existence, with his family owning a number of Moselle vineyards. Prior to his son's birth, and after the abrogation of Jewish emancipation in the Rhineland, Herschel converted from Judaism to join the state Evangelical Church of Prussia, taking on the German forename Heinrich over the Yiddish Herschel. Marx was a third cousin once removed of German Romantic poet Heinrich Heine, also born to a German Jewish family in the Rhineland, with whom he became a frequent correspondent in later life.\n\nLargely non-religious, Heinrich was a man of the Enlightenment, interested in the ideas of the philosophers Immanuel Kant and Voltaire. A classical liberal, he took part in agitation for a constitution and reforms in Prussia, at that time being an absolute monarchy. In 1815, Heinrich Marx began working as an attorney and in 1819 moved his family to a ten-room property near the Porta Nigra. His wife, Henriette Pressburg, was a Dutch Jewish woman from a prosperous business family that later founded the company Philips Electronics. Her sister Sophie Pressburg (1797–1854) married Lion Philips (1794–1866) and was the grandmother of both Gerard and Anton Philips and great-grandmother to Frits Philips. Lion Philips was a wealthy Dutch tobacco manufacturer and industrialist, upon whom Karl and Jenny Marx would later often come to rely for loans while they were exiled in London.\n\nLittle is known of Marx's childhood. The third of nine children, he became the eldest son when his brother Moritz died in 1819. Young Marx and his surviving siblings, Sophie, Hermann, Henriette, Louise, Emilie and Caroline, were baptised into the Lutheran Church in August 1824 and their mother in November 1825. Young Marx was privately educated by his father until 1830, when he entered Trier High School, whose headmaster, Hugo Wyttenbach, was a friend of his father. By employing many liberal humanists as teachers, Wyttenbach incurred the anger of the local conservative government. Subsequently, police raided the school in 1832 and discovered that literature espousing political liberalism was being distributed among the students. Considering the distribution of such material a seditious act, the authorities instituted reforms and replaced several staff during Marx's attendance.\n\nIn October 1835 at the age of 17, Marx travelled to the University of Bonn wishing to study philosophy and literature, but his father insisted on law as a more practical field. Due to a condition referred to as a \"weak chest\", Marx was excused from military duty when he turned 18. While at the University at Bonn, Marx joined the Poets' Club, a group containing political radicals that were monitored by the police. Marx also joined the Trier Tavern Club drinking society (\"Landsmannschaft der Treveraner\"), at one point serving as club co-president. Additionally, Marx was involved in certain disputes, some of which became serious: in August 1836 he took part in a duel with a member of the university's Borussian Korps. Although his grades in the first term were good, they soon deteriorated, leading his father to force a transfer to the more serious and academic University of Berlin.\n\nSpending summer and autumn 1836 in Trier, Marx became more serious about his studies and his life. He became engaged to Jenny von Westphalen, an educated baroness of the Prussian ruling class who had known Marx since childhood. As she had broken off her engagement with a young aristocrat to be with Marx, their relationship was socially controversial owing to the differences between their religious and class origins, but Marx befriended her father Ludwig von Westphalen (a liberal aristocrat) and later dedicated his doctoral thesis to him. Seven years after their engagement, on 19 June 1843 they got married in a Protestant church in Kreuznach.\n\nIn October 1836, Marx arrived in Berlin, matriculating in the university's faculty of law and renting a room in the Mittelstrasse. During the first term, Marx attended lectures of Eduard Gans who represented the progressive Hegelian standpoint, elaborated on rational development in history by emphasizing particularly its libertarian aspects, and the importance of social question, and lectures of Karl von Savigny who represented the Historical School of Law. Although studying law, he was fascinated by philosophy and looked for a way to combine the two, believing that \"without philosophy nothing could be accomplished\". Marx became interested in the recently deceased German philosopher G. W. F. Hegel, whose ideas were then widely debated among European philosophical circles. During a convalescence in Stralau, he joined the Doctor's Club (\"Doktorklub\"), a student group which discussed Hegelian ideas and through them became involved with a group of radical thinkers known as the Young Hegelians in 1837. They gathered around Ludwig Feuerbach and Bruno Bauer, with Marx developing a particularly close friendship with Adolf Rutenberg. Like Marx, the Young Hegelians were critical of Hegel's metaphysical assumptions, but adopted his dialectical method in order to criticise established society, politics and religion from a leftist perspective. Marx's father died in May 1838, resulting in a diminished income for the family. Marx had been emotionally close to his father and treasured his memory after his death.\n\nBy 1837, Marx was writing both fiction and non-fiction, having completed a short novel, \"Scorpion and Felix\", a drama, \"Oulanem\", as well as a number of love poems dedicated to Jenny von Westphalen, though none of this early work was published during his lifetime. Marx soon abandoned fiction for other pursuits, including the study of both English and Italian, art history and the translation of Latin classics. He began co-operating with Bruno Bauer on editing Hegel's \"Philosophy of Religion\" in 1840. Marx was also engaged in writing his doctoral thesis, \"The Difference Between the Democritean and Epicurean Philosophy of Nature\", which he completed in 1841. It was described as \"a daring and original piece of work in which Marx set out to show that theology must yield to the superior wisdom of philosophy\". The essay was controversial, particularly among the conservative professors at the University of Berlin. Marx decided instead to submit his thesis to the more liberal University of Jena, whose faculty awarded him his PhD in April 1841. As Marx and Bauer were both atheists, in March 1841 they began plans for a journal entitled \"Archiv des Atheismus\" (\"Atheistic Archives\"), but it never came to fruition. In July, Marx and Bauer took a trip to Bonn from Berlin. There they scandalised their class by getting drunk, laughing in church and galloping through the streets on donkeys.\n\nMarx was considering an academic career, but this path was barred by the government's growing opposition to classical liberalism and the Young Hegelians. Marx moved to Cologne in 1842, where he became a journalist, writing for the radical newspaper \"Rheinische Zeitung\" (\"Rhineland News\"), expressing his early views on socialism and his developing interest in economics. Marx criticised both right-wing European governments as well as figures in the liberal and socialist movements whom he thought ineffective or counter-productive. The newspaper attracted the attention of the Prussian government censors, who checked every issue for seditious material before printing, as Marx lamented: \"Our newspaper has to be presented to the police to be sniffed at, and if the police nose smells anything un-Christian or un-Prussian, the newspaper is not allowed to appear\". After the \"Rheinische Zeitung\" published an article strongly criticising the Russian monarchy, Tsar Nicholas I requested it be banned and Prussia's government complied in 1843.\n\nIn 1843, Marx became co-editor of a new, radical leftist Parisian newspaper, the \"Deutsch-Französische Jahrbücher\" (\"German-French Annals\"), then being set up by the German socialist Arnold Ruge to bring together German and French radicals and thus Marx and his wife moved to Paris in October 1843. Initially living with Ruge and his wife communally at 23 Rue Vaneau, they found the living conditions difficult, so moved out following the birth of their daughter Jenny in 1844. Although intended to attract writers from both France and the German states, the \"Jahrbücher\" was dominated by the latter and the only non-German writer was the exiled Russian anarchist collectivist Mikhail Bakunin. Marx contributed two essays to the paper, \"Introduction to a Contribution to the Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\" and \"On the Jewish Question\", the latter introducing his belief that the proletariat were a revolutionary force and marking his embrace of communism. Only one issue was published, but it was relatively successful, largely owing to the inclusion of Heinrich Heine's satirical odes on King Ludwig of Bavaria, leading the German states to ban it and seize imported copies (Ruge nevertheless refused to fund the publication of further issues and his friendship with Marx broke down). After the paper's collapse, Marx began writing for the only uncensored German-language radical newspaper left, \"Vorwärts!\" (\"Forward!\"). Based in Paris, the paper was connected to the League of the Just, a utopian socialist secret society of workers and artisans. Marx attended some of their meetings, but did not join. In \"Vorwärts!\", Marx refined his views on socialism based upon Hegelian and Feuerbachian ideas of dialectical materialism, at the same time criticising liberals and other socialists operating in Europe.\n\nOn 28 August 1844, Marx met the German socialist Friedrich Engels at the Café de la Régence, beginning a lifelong friendship. Engels showed Marx his recently published \"The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844\", convincing Marx that the working class would be the agent and instrument of the final revolution in history. Soon, Marx and Engels were collaborating on a criticism of the philosophical ideas of Marx's former friend, Bruno Bauer. This work was published in 1845 as \"The Holy Family\". Although critical of Bauer, Marx was increasingly influenced by the ideas of the Young Hegelians Max Stirner and Ludwig Feuerbach, but eventually Marx and Engels abandoned Feuerbachian materialism as well.\n\nDuring the time that he lived at 38 Rue Vanneau in Paris (from October 1843 until January 1845), Marx engaged in an intensive study of political economy (Adam Smith, David Ricardo, James Mill, \"etc.\")\",\" the French socialists (especially Claude Henri St. Simon and Charles Fourier) and the history of France. The study of political economy is a study that Marx would pursue for the rest of his life and would result in his major economic workthe three-volume series called \"Capital\". Marxism is based in large part on three influences: Hegel's dialectics, French utopian socialism and English economics. Together with his earlier study of Hegel's dialectics, the studying that Marx did during this time in Paris meant that all major components of \"Marxism\" were in place by the autumn of 1844. Marx was constantly being pulled away from his study of political economynot only by the usual daily demands of the time, but additionally by editing a radical newspaper and later by organising and directing the efforts of a political party during years of potentially revolutionary popular uprisings of the citizenry. Still Marx was always drawn back to his economic studies: he sought \"to understand the inner workings of capitalism\".\n\nAn outline of \"Marxism\" had definitely formed in the mind of Karl Marx by late 1844. Indeed, many features of the Marxist view of the world's political economy had been worked out in great detail, but Marx needed to write down all of the details of his economic world view to further clarify the new economic theory in his own mind. Accordingly, Marx wrote \"The Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts\". These manuscripts covered numerous topics, detailing Marx's concept of alienated labour. However, by the spring of 1845 his continued study of political economy, capital and capitalism had led Marx to the belief that the new political economic theory that he was espousing—scientific socialism—needed to be built on the base of a thoroughly developed materialistic view of the world.\n\nThe \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" had been written between April and August 1844, but soon Marx recognised that the \"Manuscripts\" had been influenced by some inconsistent ideas of Ludwig Feuerbach. Accordingly, Marx recognised the need to break with Feuerbach's philosophy in favour of historical materialism, thus a year later (in April 1845) after moving from Paris to Brussels, Marx wrote his eleven \"Theses on Feuerbach\". The \"Theses on Feuerbach\" are best known for Thesis 11, which states that \"philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways, the point is to change it\". This work contains Marx's criticism of materialism (for being contemplative), idealism (for reducing practice to theory) overall, criticising philosophy for putting abstract reality above the physical world. It thus introduced the first glimpse at Marx's historical materialism, an argument that the world is changed not by ideas but by actual, physical, material activity and practice. In 1845, after receiving a request from the Prussian king, the French government shut down \"Vorwärts!\", with the interior minister, François Guizot, expelling Marx from France. At this point, Marx moved from Paris to Brussels, where Marx hoped to once again continue his study of capitalism and political economy.\n\nUnable either to stay in France or to move to Germany, Marx decided to emigrate to Brussels in Belgium in February 1845. However, to stay in Belgium he had to pledge not to publish anything on the subject of contemporary politics. In Brussels, Marx associated with other exiled socialists from across Europe, including Moses Hess, Karl Heinzen and Joseph Weydemeyer. In April 1845, Engels moved from Barmen in Germany to Brussels to join Marx and the growing cadre of members of the League of the Just now seeking home in Brussels. Later, Mary Burns, Engels' long-time companion, left Manchester, England to join Engels in Brussels.\n\nIn mid-July 1845, Marx and Engels left Brussels for England to visit the leaders of the Chartists, a socialist movement in Britain. This was Marx's first trip to England and Engels was an ideal guide for the trip. Engels had already spent two years living in Manchester from November 1842 to August 1844. Not only did Engels already know the English language, he had also developed a close relationship with many Chartist leaders. Indeed, Engels was serving as a reporter for many Chartist and socialist English newspapers. Marx used the trip as an opportunity to examine the economic resources available for study in various libraries in London and Manchester.\n\nIn collaboration with Engels, Marx also set about writing a book which is often seen as his best treatment of the concept of historical materialism, \"The German Ideology\". In this work, Marx broke with Ludwig Feuerbach, Bruno Bauer, Max Stirner and the rest of the Young Hegelians, while he also broke with Karl Grun and other \"true socialists\" whose philosophies were still based in part on \"idealism\". In \"German Ideology\", Marx and Engels finally completed their philosophy, which was based solely on materialism as the sole motor force in history. \"German Ideology\" is written in a humorously satirical form, but even this satirical form did not save the work from censorship. Like so many other early writings of his, \"German Ideology\" would not be published in Marx's lifetime and would be published only in 1932.\n\nAfter completing \"German Ideology\", Marx turned to a work that was intended to clarify his own position regarding \"the theory and tactics\" of a truly \"revolutionary proletarian movement\" operating from the standpoint of a truly \"scientific materialist\" philosophy. This work was intended to draw a distinction between the utopian socialists and Marx's own scientific socialist philosophy. Whereas the utopians believed that people must be persuaded one person at a time to join the socialist movement, the way a person must be persuaded to adopt any different belief, Marx knew that people would tend on most occasions to act in accordance with their own economic interests, thus appealing to an entire class (the working class in this case) with a broad appeal to the class's best material interest would be the best way to mobilise the broad mass of that class to make a revolution and change society. This was the intent of the new book that Marx was planning, but to get the manuscript past the government censors he called the book \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" (1847) and offered it as a response to the \"petty bourgeois philosophy\" of the French anarchist socialist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon as expressed in his book \"The Philosophy of Poverty\" (1840).\n\nThese books laid the foundation for Marx and Engels's most famous work, a political pamphlet that has since come to be commonly known as \"The Communist Manifesto\". While residing in Brussels in 1846, Marx continued his association with the secret radical organisation League of the Just. As noted above, Marx thought the League to be just the sort of radical organisation that was needed to spur the working class of Europe toward the mass movement that would bring about a working class revolution. However, to organise the working class into a mass movement the League had to cease its \"secret\" or \"underground\" orientation and operate in the open as a political party. Members of the League eventually became persuaded in this regard. Accordingly, in June 1847 the League was reorganised by its membership into a new open \"above ground\" political society that appealed directly to the working classes. This new open political society was called the Communist League. Both Marx and Engels participated in drawing up the programme and organisational principles of the new Communist League.\n\nIn late 1847, Marx and Engels began writing what was to become their most famous work — a programme of action for the Communist League. Written jointly by Marx and Engels from December 1847 to January 1848, \"The Communist Manifesto\" was first published on 21 February 1848. \"The Communist Manifesto\" laid out the beliefs of the new Communist League. No longer a secret society, the Communist League wanted to make aims and intentions clear to the general public rather than hiding its beliefs as the League of the Just had been doing. The opening lines of the pamphlet set forth the principal basis of Marxism: \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\". It goes on to examine the antagonisms that Marx claimed were arising in the clashes of interest between the bourgeoisie (the wealthy capitalist class) and the proletariat (the industrial working class). Proceeding on from this, the \"Manifesto\" presents the argument for why the Communist League, as opposed to other socialist and liberal political parties and groups at the time, was truly acting in the interests of the proletariat to overthrow capitalist society and to replace it with socialism.\n\nLater that year, Europe experienced a series of protests, rebellions and often violent upheavals that became known as the Revolutions of 1848. In France, a revolution led to the overthrow of the monarchy and the establishment of the French Second Republic. Marx was supportive of such activity and having recently received a substantial inheritance from his father (withheld by his uncle Lionel Philips since his father's death in 1838) of either 6,000 or 5,000 francs he allegedly used a third of it to arm Belgian workers who were planning revolutionary action. Although the veracity of these allegations is disputed, the Belgian Ministry of Justice accused Marx of it, subsequently arresting him and he was forced to flee back to France, where with a new republican government in power he believed that he would be safe.\n\nTemporarily settling down in Paris, Marx transferred the Communist League executive headquarters to the city and also set up a German Workers' Club with various German socialists living there. Hoping to see the revolution spread to Germany, in 1848 Marx moved back to Cologne where he began issuing a handbill entitled the \"Demands of the Communist Party in Germany\", in which he argued for only four of the ten points of the \"Communist Manifesto\", believing that in Germany at that time the bourgeoisie must overthrow the feudal monarchy and aristocracy before the proletariat could overthrow the bourgeoisie. On 1 June, Marx started publication of a daily newspaper, the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung\", which he helped to finance through his recent inheritance from his father. Designed to put forward news from across Europe with his own Marxist interpretation of events, the newspaper featured Marx as a primary writer and the dominant editorial influence. Despite contributions by fellow members of the Communist League, according to Friedrich Engels it remained \"a simple dictatorship by Marx\".\n\nWhilst editor of the paper, Marx and the other revolutionary socialists were regularly harassed by the police and Marx was brought to trial on several occasions, facing various allegations including insulting the Chief Public Prosecutor, committing a press misdemeanor and inciting armed rebellion through tax boycotting, although each time he was acquitted. Meanwhile, the democratic parliament in Prussia collapsed and the king, Frederick William IV, introduced a new cabinet of his reactionary supporters, who implemented counter-revolutionary measures to expunge leftist and other revolutionary elements from the country. Consequently, the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung\" was soon suppressed and Marx was ordered to leave the country on 16 May. Marx returned to Paris, which was then under the grip of both a reactionary counter-revolution and a cholera epidemic and was soon expelled by the city authorities, who considered him a political threat. With his wife Jenny expecting their fourth child and not able to move back to Germany or Belgium, in August 1849 he sought refuge in London.\n\nMarx moved to London in early June 1849 and would remain based in the city for the rest of his life. The headquarters of the Communist League also moved to London. However, in the winter of 1849–1850 a split within the ranks of the Communist League occurred when a faction within it led by August Willich and Karl Schapper began agitating for an immediate uprising. Willich and Schapper believed that once the Communist League had initiated the uprising, the entire working class from across Europe would rise \"spontaneously\" to join it, thus creating revolution across Europe. Marx and Engels protested that such an unplanned uprising on the part of the Communist League was \"adventuristic\" and would be suicide for the Communist League. Such an uprising as that recommended by the Schapper/Willich group would easily be crushed by the police and the armed forces of the reactionary governments of Europe. Marx maintained that this would spell doom for the Communist League itself, arguing that changes in society are not achieved overnight through the efforts and will power of a handful of men. They are instead brought about through a scientific analysis of economic conditions of society and by moving toward revolution through different stages of social development. In the present stage of development (\"circa\" 1850), following the defeat of the uprisings across Europe in 1848 he felt that the Communist League should encourage the working class to unite with progressive elements of the rising bourgeoisie to defeat the feudal aristocracy on issues involving demands for governmental reforms, such as a constitutional republic with freely elected assemblies and universal (male) suffrage. In other words, the working class must join with bourgeois and democratic forces to bring about the successful conclusion of the bourgeois revolution before stressing the working class agenda and a working class revolution.\n\nAfter a long struggle which threatened to ruin the Communist League, Marx's opinion prevailed and eventually the Willich/Schapper group left the Communist League. Meanwhile, Marx also became heavily involved with the socialist German Workers' Educational Society. The Society held their meetings in Great Windmill Street, Soho, central London's entertainment district. This organisation was also racked by an internal struggle between its members, some of whom followed Marx while others followed the Schapper/Willich faction. The issues in this internal split were the same issues raised in the internal split within the Communist League, but Marx lost the fight with the Schapper/Willich faction within the German Workers' Educational Society and on 17 September 1850 resigned from the Society.\n\nIn the early period in London, Marx committed himself almost exclusively to revolutionary activities, such that his family endured extreme poverty. His main source of income was Engels, whose own source was his wealthy industrialist father. In Prussia as editor of his own newspaper, and contributor to others ideologically aligned, Marx could reach his audience, the working classes. In London, without finances to run a newspaper themselves, he and Engels turned to international journalism. At one stage they were being published by six newspapers from England, the United States, Prussia, Austria and South Africa. Marx's principal earnings came from his work as European correspondent, from 1852 to 1862, for the \"New-York Daily Tribune\", and from also producing articles for more \"bourgeois\" newspapers. Marx had his articles translated from German by , until his proficiency in English had become adequate.\n\nThe \"New-York Daily Tribune\" had been founded in April 1841 by Horace Greeley. Its editorial board contained progressive bourgeois journalists and publishers, among them George Ripley and the journalist Charles Dana, who was editor-in-chief. Dana, a fourierist and an abolitionist, was Marx's contact. \n\nThe \"Tribune\" was a vehicle for Marx to reach a transatlantic public to make a \"hidden war\" to Henry Charles Carey. The journal had wide working-class appeal from its foundation; at two cents, it was inexpensive; and, with about 50,000 copies per issue, its circulation was the widest in the United States. Its editorial ethos was progressive and its anti-slavery stance reflected Greeley's. Marx's first article for the paper, on the British parliamentary elections, was published on 21 August 1852.\n\nOn 21 March 1857 Dana informed Marx that, due to the economic recession, only one article a week would be paid for, published or not; the others would be paid for only if published. Marx had sent his articles on Tuesdays and Fridays, but, that October, the \"Tribune\" discharged all its correspondents in Europe except Marx and B. Taylor, and reduced Marx to a weekly article. Between September and November 1860, only five were published. After a six-month interval, Marx resumed contributions in September 1861 until March 1862, when Dana wrote to inform him that there was no longer space in the \"Tribune\" for reports from London, due to American domestic affairs.\nIn 1868, Dana set up a rival newspaper, the \"New York Sun\", at which he was editor-in-chief.\n\nIn April 1857, Dana invited Marx to contribute articles, mainly on military history, to the \"New American Cyclopedia\", an idea of George Ripley, Dana's friend and literary editor of the \"Tribune\". In all, 67 Marx-Engels articles were published, of which 51 written by Engels, although Marx did some research for them in the British Museum.\n\nBy the late 1850s, American popular interest in European affairs waned and Marx's articles turned to topics such as the \"slavery crisis\" and the outbreak of the American Civil War in 1861, in the \"War Between the States\".\nBetween December 1851 and March 1852, Marx worked on his theoretical work about the French Revolution of 1848, titled \"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon\". In this he explored concepts in historical materialism, class struggle, dictatorship of the proletariat, and victory of the proletariat over the bourgeois state.\n\nThe 1850s and 1860s may be said to mark a philosophical boundary distinguishing the young Marx's Hegelian idealism and the more mature Marx's scientific ideology associated with structural Marxism; however, not all scholars accept this distinction. For Marx and Engels, their experience of the Revolutions of 1848 to 1849 were formative in the development of their theory of economics and historical progression. After the \"failures\" of 1848, the revolutionary impetus appeared spent and not to be renewed without an economic recession. Contention arose between Marx and his fellow communists, whom he denounced as \"adventurists\". Marx deemed it fanciful to propose that \"will power\" could be sufficient to create the revolutionary conditions when in reality the economic component was the necessary requisite.\n\nRecession in the United States' economy in 1852 gave Marx and Engels grounds for optimism for revolutionary activity. Yet, this economy was seen as too immature for a capitalist revolution. Open territories on America's western frontier dissipated the forces of social unrest. Moreover, any economic crisis arising in the United States would not lead to revolutionary contagion of the older economies of individual European nations, which were closed systems bounded by their national borders. When the so-called \"Panic of 1857\" in the United States spread globally, it broke all economic theory models, and was the first truly global economic crisis.\n\nFinancial necessity had forced Marx to abandon economic studies in 1844 and give thirteen years to working on other projects. He had always sought to return to economics.\n\nMarx continued to write articles for the \"New York Daily Tribune\" as long as he was sure that the \"Tribune's\" editorial policy was still progressive. However, the departure of Charles Dana from the paper in late 1861 and the resultant change in the editorial board brought about a new editorial policy. No longer was the \"Tribune\" to be a strong abolitionist paper dedicated to a complete Union victory. The new editorial board supported an immediate peace between the Union and the Confederacy in the Civil War in the United States with slavery left intact in the Confederacy. Marx strongly disagreed with this new political position and in 1863 was forced to withdraw as a writer for the \"Tribune.\"\n\nIn 1864, Marx became involved in the International Workingmen's Association (also known as the First International), to whose General Council he was elected at its inception in 1864. In that organisation, Marx was involved in the struggle against the anarchist wing centred on Mikhail Bakunin (1814–1876). Although Marx won this contest, the transfer of the seat of the General Council from London to New York in 1872, which Marx supported, led to the decline of the International. The most important political event during the existence of the International was the Paris Commune of 1871, when the citizens of Paris rebelled against their government and held the city for two months. In response to the bloody suppression of this rebellion, Marx wrote one of his most famous pamphlets, \"The Civil War in France\", a defence of the Commune.\n\nGiven the repeated failures and frustrations of workers' revolutions and movements, Marx also sought to understand capitalism and spent a great deal of time in the reading room of the British Museum studying and reflecting on the works of political economists and on economic data. By 1857, Marx had accumulated over 800 pages of notes and short essays on capital, landed property, wage labour, the state and foreign trade and the world market, though this work did not appear in print until 1939 under the title \"\"Outlines of the Critique of Political Economy\"\".\n\nFinally in 1859, Marx published \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\", his first serious economic work. This work was intended merely as a preview of his three-volume \"Das Kapital\" (English title: \"Capital: Critique of Political Economy\"), which he intended to publish at a later date. In \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\", Marx expands on the labour theory of value advocated by David Ricardo. The work was enthusiastically received, and the edition sold out quickly.\n\nThe successful sales of \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\" stimulated Marx in the early 1860s to finish work on the three large volumes that would compose his major life's work—\"Das Kapital\" and the \"Theories of Surplus Value\", which discussed the theoreticians of political economy, particularly Adam Smith and David Ricardo. \"Theories of Surplus Value\" is often referred to as the fourth volume of \"Das Kapital\" and constitutes one of the first comprehensive treatises on the history of economic thought. In 1867, the first volume of \"Das Kapital\" was published, a work which analysed the capitalist process of production. Here Marx elaborated his labour theory of value, which had been influenced by Thomas Hodgskin. Marx acknowledged Hodgskin's \"admirable work\" \"Labour Defended against the Claims of Capital\" at more than one point in \"Capital.\" Indeed, Marx quoted Hodgskin as recognising the alienation of labour that occurred under modern capitalist production. No longer was there any \"natural reward of individual labour. Each labourer produces only some part of a whole, and each part having no value or utility of itself, there is nothing on which the labourer can seize, and say: 'This is my product, this will I keep to myself'\". In this first volume of \"Capital\", Marx outlined his conception of surplus value and exploitation, which he argued would ultimately lead to a falling rate of profit and the collapse of industrial capitalism. Demand for a Russian language edition of \"Capital\" soon led to the printing of 3,000 copies of the book in the Russian language, which was published on 27 March 1872. By the autumn of 1871, the entire first edition of the German language edition of \"Capital\" had been sold out and a second edition was published.\n\nVolumes II and III of \"Capital\" remained mere manuscripts upon which Marx continued to work for the rest of his life. Both volumes were published by Engels after Marx's death. Volume II of \"Capital\" was prepared and published by Engels in July 1893 under the name \"Capital II: The Process of Circulation of Capital\". Volume III of \"Capital\" was published a year later in October 1894 under the name \"Capital III: The Process of Capitalist Production as a Whole\". \"Theories of Surplus Value\" derived from the sprawling \"Economic Manuscripts of 1861-1863\", a \"second\" draft for \"Capital\", the latter spanning volumes 30-34 of the \"Collected Works of Marx and Engels\". Specifically, \"Theories of Surplus Value\" runs from the latter part of the \"Collected Works' \" thirtieth volume through the end of their thirty-second volume; meanwhile, the larger \"Economic Manuscripts of 1861-1863\" run from the start of the \"Collected Works' \" thirtieth volume through the first half of their thirty-fourth volume. The latter half of the Collected Works' thirty-fourth volume consists of the surviving fragments of the \"Economic Manuscripts of 1863-1864\", which represented a \"third\" draft for Capital, and a large portion of which is included as an appendix to the Penguin edition of \"Capital\", volume I. A German language abridged edition of \"Theories of Surplus Value\" was published in 1905 and in 1910. This abridged edition was translated into English and published in 1951 in London, but the complete unabridged edition of \"Theories of Surplus Value\" was published as the \"fourth volume\" of \"Capital\" in 1963 and 1971 in Moscow.\n\nDuring the last decade of his life, Marx's health declined and he became incapable of the sustained effort that had characterised his previous work. He did manage to comment substantially on contemporary politics, particularly in Germany and Russia. His \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\" opposed the tendency of his followers Wilhelm Liebknecht and August Bebel to compromise with the state socialism of Ferdinand Lassalle in the interests of a united socialist party. This work is also notable for another famous Marx quote: \"From each according to his ability, to each according to his need\".\n\nIn a letter to Vera Zasulich dated 8 March 1881, Marx contemplated the possibility of Russia's bypassing the capitalist stage of development and building communism on the basis of the common ownership of land characteristic of the village \"mir\". While admitting that Russia's rural \"commune is the fulcrum of social regeneration in Russia\", Marx also warned that in order for the mir to operate as a means for moving straight to the socialist stage without a preceding capitalist stage it \"would first be necessary to eliminate the deleterious influences which are assailing it (the rural commune) from all sides\". Given the elimination of these pernicious influences, Marx allowed that \"normal conditions of spontaneous development\" of the rural commune could exist. However, in the same letter to Vera Zasulich he points out that \"at the core of the capitalist system ... lies the complete separation of the producer from the means of production\". In one of the drafts of this letter, Marx reveals his growing passion for anthropology, motivated by his belief that future communism would be a return on a higher level to the communism of our prehistoric past. He wrote that \"the historical trend of our age is the fatal crisis which capitalist production has undergone in the European and American countries where it has reached its highest peak, a crisis that will end in its destruction, in the return of modern society to a higher form of the most archaic type—collective production and appropriation\". He added that \"the vitality of primitive communities was incomparably greater than that of Semitic, Greek, Roman, \"etc\". societies, and, a fortiori, that of modern capitalist societies\". Before he died, Marx asked Engels to write up these ideas, which were published in 1884 under the title \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State\".\n\nMarx and von Westphalen had seven children together, but partly owing to the poor conditions in which they lived whilst in London, only three survived to adulthood. The children were: Jenny Caroline (m. Longuet; 1844–1883); Jenny Laura (m. Lafargue; 1845–1911); Edgar (1847–1855); Henry Edward Guy (\"Guido\"; 1849–1850); Jenny Eveline Frances (\"Franziska\"; 1851–1852); Jenny Julia Eleanor (1855–1898) and one more who died before being named (July 1857). There are allegations that Marx also fathered a son, Freddy, out of wedlock by his housekeeper, Helene Demuth.\n\nMarx frequently used pseudonyms, often when renting a house or flat, apparently to make it harder for the authorities to track him down. While in Paris, he used that of \"Monsieur Ramboz\", whilst in London he signed off his letters as \"A. Williams\". His friends referred to him as \"Moor\", owing to his dark complexion and black curly hair, while he encouraged his children to call him \"Old Nick\" and \"Charley\". He also bestowed nicknames and pseudonyms on his friends and family as well, referring to Friedrich Engels as \"General\", his housekeeper Helene as \"Lenchen\" or \"Nym\", while one of his daughters, Jennychen, was referred to as \"Qui Qui, Emperor of China\" and another, Laura, was known as \"Kakadou\" or \"the Hottentot\".\n\nMarx was afflicted by poor health (what he himself described as \"the wretchedness of existence\") and various authors have sought to describe and explain it. His biographer Werner Blumenberg attributed it to liver and gall problems which Marx had in 1849 and from which he was never afterwards free, exacerbated by an unsuitable lifestyle. The attacks often came with headaches, eye inflammation, neuralgia in the head and rheumatic pains. A serious nervous disorder appeared in 1877 and protracted insomnia was a consequence, which Marx fought with narcotics. The illness was aggravated by excessive nocturnal work and faulty diet. Marx was fond of highly seasoned dishes, smoked fish, caviare, pickled cucumbers, \"none of which are good for liver patients\", but he also liked wine and liqueurs and smoked an enormous amount \"and since he had no money, it was usually bad-quality cigars\". From 1863, Marx complained a lot about boils: \"These are very frequent with liver patients and may be due to the same causes\". The abscesses were so bad that Marx could neither sit nor work upright. According to Blumenberg, Marx's irritability is often found in liver patients:\n\nThe illness emphasised certain traits in his character. He argued cuttingly, his biting satire did not shrink at insults, and his expressions could be rude and cruel. Though in general Marx had a blind faith in his closest friends, nevertheless he himself complained that he was sometimes too mistrustful and unjust even to them. His verdicts, not only about enemies but even about friends, were sometimes so harsh that even less sensitive people would take offence… There must have been few whom he did not criticize like this… not even Engels was an exception.\n\nAccording to Princeton historian J.E. Seigel, in his late teens Marx may have had pneumonia or pleurisy, the effects of which led to his being exempted from Prussian military service. In later life whilst working on \"Capital\" (which he never completed), Marx suffered from a trio of afflictions. A liver ailment, probably hereditary, was aggravated by overwork, bad diet and lack of sleep. Inflammation of the eyes was induced by too much work at night. A third affliction, eruption of carbuncles or boils, \"was probably brought on by general physical debility to which the various features of Marx's style of life — alcohol, tobacco, poor diet, and failure to sleep — all contributed. Engels often exhorted Marx to alter this dangerous regime\". In Professor Siegel's thesis, what lay behind this punishing sacrifice of his health may have been guilt about self-involvement and egoism, originally induced in Karl Marx by his father.\n\nIn 2007, a retrodiagnosis of Marx's skin disease was made by dermatologist Sam Shuster of Newcastle University and for Shuster the most probable explanation was that Marx suffered not from liver problems, but from hidradenitis suppurativa, a recurring infective condition arising from blockage of apocrine ducts opening into hair follicles. This condition, which was not described in the English medical literature until 1933 (hence would not have been known to Marx's physicians), can produce joint pain (which could be misdiagnosed as rheumatic disorder) and painful eye conditions. To arrive at his retrodiagnosis, Shuster considered the primary material: the Marx correspondence published in the 50 volumes of the \"Marx/Engels Collected Works\". There, \"although the skin lesions were called 'furuncules', 'boils' and 'carbuncles' by Marx, his wife and his physicians, they were too persistent, recurrent, destructive and site-specific for that diagnosis\". The sites of the persistent 'carbuncles' were noted repeatedly in the armpits, groins, perianal, genital (penis and scrotum) and suprapubic regions and inner thighs, \"favoured sites of hidradenitis suppurativa\". Professor Shuster claimed the diagnosis \"can now be made definitively\".\n\nShuster went on to consider the potential psychosocial effects of the disease, noting that the skin is an organ of communication and that hidradenitis suppurativa produces much psychological distress, including loathing and disgust and depression of self-image, mood and well-being, feelings for which Shuster found \"much evidence\" in the Marx correspondence. Professor Shuster went on to ask himself whether the mental effects of the disease affected Marx's work and even helped him to develop his theory of alienation.\n\nFollowing the death of his wife Jenny in December 1881, Marx developed a catarrh that kept him in ill health for the last 15 months of his life. It eventually brought on the bronchitis and pleurisy that killed him in London on 14 March 1883 (age 64), dying a stateless person. Family and friends in London buried his body in Highgate Cemetery (East), London, on 17 March 1883 in an area reserved for agnostics and atheists (George Eliot's grave is nearby). There were between nine and eleven mourners at his funeral.\n\nSeveral of his closest friends spoke at his funeral, including Wilhelm Liebknecht and Friedrich Engels. Engels' speech included the passage: \n\nMarx's surviving daughters Eleanor and Laura, as well as Charles Longuet and Paul Lafargue, Marx's two French socialist sons-in-law, were also in attendance. He had been predeceased by his wife and his eldest daughter, the latter dying a few months earlier in January 1883. Liebknecht, a founder and leader of the German Social Democratic Party, gave a speech in German and Longuet, a prominent figure in the French working-class movement, made a short statement in French. Two telegrams from workers' parties in France and Spain were also read out. Together with Engels's speech, this constituted the entire programme of the funeral. Non-relatives attending the funeral included three communist associates of Marx: Friedrich Lessner, imprisoned for three years after the Cologne communist trial of 1852; G. Lochner, whom Engels described as \"an old member of the Communist League\"; and Carl Schorlemmer, a professor of chemistry in Manchester, a member of the Royal Society and a communist activist involved in the 1848 Baden revolution. Another attendee of the funeral was Ray Lankester, a British zoologist who would later become a prominent academic.\n\nUpon his own death in 1895, Engels left Marx's two surviving daughters a \"significant portion\" of his considerable estate (valued in 2011 at US$4.8m).\n\nMarx and his family were reburied on a new site nearby in November 1954. The tomb at the new site, unveiled on 14 March 1956, bears the carved message: \"Workers of All Lands Unite\", the final line of \"The Communist Manifesto\"; and, from the 11th \"Thesis on Feuerbach\" (as edited by Engels), \"The philosophers have only interpreted the world in various waysthe point however is to change it\". The Communist Party of Great Britain had the monument with a portrait bust by Laurence Bradshaw erected and Marx's original tomb had only humble adornment. In 1970, there was an unsuccessful attempt to destroy the monument using a homemade bomb.\n\nThe Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm remarked: \"One cannot say Marx died a failure\" because although he had not achieved a large following of disciples in Britain, his writings had already begun to make an impact on the leftist movements in Germany and Russia. Within 25 years of his death, the continental European socialist parties that acknowledged Marx's influence on their politics were each gaining between 15 and 47 per cent in those countries with representative democratic elections.\n\nMarx's thought demonstrates influences from many thinkers including, but not limited to:\n\nMarx's view of history, which came to be called historical materialism (controversially adapted as the philosophy of dialectical materialism by Engels and Lenin), certainly shows the influence of Hegel's claim that one should view reality (and history) dialectically. However, Hegel had thought in idealist terms, putting ideas in the forefront, whereas Marx sought to rewrite dialectics in materialist terms, arguing for the primacy of matter over idea. Where Hegel saw the \"spirit\" as driving history, Marx saw this as an unnecessary mystification, obscuring the reality of humanity and its physical actions shaping the world. He wrote that Hegelianism stood the movement of reality on its head, and that one needed to set it upon its feet. Despite his dislike of mystical terms, Marx used Gothic language in several of his works: in \"The Communist Manifesto\" he proclaims \"A spectre is haunting Europe—the spectre of communism. All the powers of old Europe have entered into a holy alliance to exorcise this spectre\", and in \"The Capital\" he refers to capital as \"necromancy that surrounds the products of labour\".\n\nThough inspired by French socialist and sociological thought, Marx criticised utopian socialists, arguing that their favoured small-scale socialistic communities would be bound to marginalisation and poverty and that only a large-scale change in the economic system can bring about real change.\n\nThe other important contributions to Marx's revision of Hegelianism came from Engels's book, \"The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844\", which led Marx to conceive of the historical dialectic in terms of class conflict and to see the modern working class as the most progressive force for revolution, as well as from the social democrat Friedrich Wilhelm Schulz, who in \"Die Bewegung der Produktion\" described the movement of society as \"flowing from the contradiction between the forces of production and the mode of production.\"\n\nMarx believed that he could study history and society scientifically and discern tendencies of history and the resulting outcome of social conflicts. Some followers of Marx therefore concluded that a communist revolution would inevitably occur. However, Marx famously asserted in the eleventh of his \"Theses on Feuerbach\" that \"philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point however is to change it\" and he clearly dedicated himself to trying to alter the world.\n\nMarx's polemic with other thinkers often occurred through critique and thus he has been called \"the first great user of critical method in social sciences\". He criticised speculative philosophy, equating metaphysics with ideology. By adopting this approach, Marx attempted to separate key findings from ideological biases. This set him apart from many contemporary philosophers.\n\nLike Tocqueville, who described a faceless and bureaucratic despotism with no identifiable despot, Marx also broke with classical thinkers who spoke of a single tyrant and with Montesquieu, who discussed the nature of the single despot. Instead, Marx set out to analyse \"the despotism of capital\". Fundamentally, Marx assumed that human history involves transforming human nature, which encompasses both human beings and material objects. Humans recognise that they possess both actual and potential selves. For both Marx and Hegel, self-development begins with an experience of internal alienation stemming from this recognition, followed by a realisation that the actual self, as a subjective agent, renders its potential counterpart an object to be apprehended. Marx further argues that by moulding nature in desired ways the subject takes the object as its own and thus permits the individual to be actualised as fully human. For Marx, the human nature—, or species-being—exists as a function of human labour. Fundamental to Marx's idea of meaningful labour is the proposition that in order for a subject to come to terms with its alienated object it must first exert influence upon literal, material objects in the subject's world. Marx acknowledges that Hegel \"grasps the nature of work and comprehends objective man, authentic because actual, as the result of his \", but characterises Hegelian self-development as unduly \"spiritual\" and abstract. Marx thus departs from Hegel by insisting that \"the fact that man is a corporeal, actual, sentient, objective being with natural capacities means that he has actual, sensuous objects for his nature as objects of his life-expression, or that he can only express his life in actual sensuous objects\". Consequently, Marx revises Hegelian \"work\" into material \"labour\" and in the context of human capacity to transform nature the term \"labour power\".\n\nMarx had a special concern with how people relate to their own labour power. He wrote extensively about this in terms of the problem of alienation. As with the dialectic, Marx began with a Hegelian notion of alienation but developed a more materialist conception. Capitalism mediates social relationships of production (such as among workers or between workers and capitalists) through commodities, including labour, that are bought and sold on the market. For Marx, the possibility that one may give up ownership of one's own labour—one's capacity to transform the world—is tantamount to being alienated from one's own nature and it is a spiritual loss. Marx described this loss as commodity fetishism, in which the things that people produce, commodities, appear to have a life and movement of their own to which humans and their behaviour merely adapt.\n\nCommodity fetishism provides an example of what Engels called \"false consciousness\", which relates closely to the understanding of ideology. By \"ideology\", Marx and Engels meant ideas that reflect the interests of a particular class at a particular time in history, but which contemporaries see as universal and eternal. Marx and Engels's point was not only that such beliefs are at best half-truths, as they serve an important political function. Put another way, the control that one class exercises over the means of production includes not only the production of food or manufactured goods, but also the production of ideas (this provides one possible explanation for why members of a subordinate class may hold ideas contrary to their own interests). An example of this sort of analysis is Marx's understanding of religion, summed up in a passage from the preface to his 1843 \"Contribution to the Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\": \n\nWhereas his Gymnasium senior thesis at the argued that religion had as its primary social aim the promotion of solidarity, here Marx sees the social function of religion in terms of highlighting/preserving political and economic \"status quo\" and inequality.\n\nMarx was an outspoken opponent of child labour, saying that British industries \"could but live by sucking blood, and children’s blood too\", and that U.S. capital was financed by the \"capitalized blood of children\".\n\nMarx's thoughts on labour were related to the primacy he gave to the economic relation in determining the society's past, present and future (see also economic determinism). Accumulation of capital shapes the social system. For Marx, social change was about conflict between opposing interests, driven in the background by economic forces. This became the inspiration for the body of works known as the conflict theory. In his evolutionary model of history, he argued that human history began with free, productive and creative work that was over time coerced and dehumanised, a trend most apparent under capitalism. Marx noted that this was not an intentional process, rather no individual or even state can go against the forces of economy.\n\nThe organisation of society depends on means of production. The means of production are all things required to produce material goods, such as land, natural resources and technology but not human labor. The relations of production are the social relationships people enter into as they acquire and use the means of production. Together, these compose the mode of production and Marx distinguished historical eras in terms of modes of production. Marx differentiated between base and superstructure, where the base (or substructure) is the economic system and superstructure is the cultural and political system. Marx regarded this mismatch between economic base and social superstructure as a major source of social disruption and conflict.\n\nDespite Marx's stress on critique of capitalism and discussion of the new communist society that should replace it, his explicit critique is guarded, as he saw it as an improved society compared to the past ones (slavery and feudalism). Marx never clearly discusses issues of morality and justice, but scholars agree that his work contained implicit discussion of those concepts.\nMarx's view of capitalism was two-sided. On one hand, in the 19th century's deepest critique of the dehumanising aspects of this system he noted that defining features of capitalism include alienation, exploitation and recurring, cyclical depressions leading to mass unemployment. On the other hand, he characterized capitalism as \"revolutionising, industrialising and universalising qualities of development, growth and progressivity\" (by which Marx meant industrialisation, urbanisation, technological progress, increased productivity and growth, rationality and scientific revolution) that are responsible for progress. Marx considered the capitalist class to be one of the most revolutionary in history because it constantly improved the means of production, more so than any other class in history and was responsible for the overthrow of feudalism. Capitalism can stimulate considerable growth because the capitalist has an incentive to reinvest profits in new technologies and capital equipment.\n\nAccording to Marx, capitalists take advantage of the difference between the labour market and the market for whatever commodity the capitalist can produce. Marx observed that in practically every successful industry, input unit-costs are lower than output unit-prices. Marx called the difference \"surplus value\" and argued that it was based on surplus labour, the difference between what it costs to keep workers alive and what they can produce. Although Marx describes capitalists as vampires sucking worker's blood, he notes that drawing profit is \"by no means an injustice\" and that capitalists cannot go against the system. The problem is the \"cancerous cell\" of capital, understood not as property or equipment, but the relations between workers and owners—the economic system in general.\n\nAt the same time, Marx stressed that capitalism was unstable and prone to periodic crises. He suggested that over time capitalists would invest more and more in new technologies and less and less in labour. Since Marx believed that profit derived from surplus value appropriated from labour, he concluded that the rate of profit would fall as the economy grows. Marx believed that increasingly severe crises would punctuate this cycle of growth and collapse. Moreover, he believed that in the long-term, this process would enrich and empower the capitalist class and impoverish the proletariat. In section one of \"The Communist Manifesto\", Marx describes feudalism, capitalism and the role internal social contradictions play in the historical process:\n\nMarx believed that those structural contradictions within capitalism necessitate its end, giving way to socialism, or a post-capitalistic, communist society:\nThanks to various processes overseen by capitalism, such as urbanisation, the working class, the proletariat, should grow in numbers and develop class consciousness, in time realising that they can and must change the system. Marx believed that if the proletariat were to seize the means of production, they would encourage social relations that would benefit everyone equally, abolishing exploiting class and introduce a system of production less vulnerable to cyclical crises. Marx argued in \"The German Ideology\" that capitalism will end through the organised actions of an international working class: \n\nIn this new society, the alienation would end and humans would be free to act without being bound by the labour market. It would be a democratic society, enfranchising the entire population. In such a utopian world, there would also be little need for a state, whose goal was previously to enforce the alienation. Marx theorised that between capitalism and the establishment of a socialist/communist system, would exist a period of dictatorship of the proletariat—where the working class holds political power and forcibly socialises the means of production. As he wrote in his \"Critique of the Gotha Program\", \"between capitalist and communist society there lies the period of the revolutionary transformation of the one into the other. Corresponding to this is also a political transition period in which the state can be nothing but the revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat\". While he allowed for the possibility of peaceful transition in some countries with strong democratic institutional structures (such as Britain, the United States and the Netherlands), he suggested that in other countries in which workers cannot \"attain their goal by peaceful means\" the \"lever of our revolution must be force\".\n\nMarx viewed Russia as the main counter-revolutionary threat to European revolutions. During the Crimean War, Marx backed the Ottoman Empire and its allies Britain and France against Russia. He was absolutely opposed to Pan-Slavism, viewing it as an instrument of Russian foreign policy. Marx had considered the Slavic nations except Poles as 'counter-revolutionary'. Marx and Engels published in the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung\" in February 1849:\n\nMarx and Engels sympathised with the Narodnik revolutionaries of the 1860s and 1870s. When the Russian revolutionaries assassinated Tsar Alexander II of Russia, Marx expressed the hope that the assassination foreshadowed ‘the formation of a Russian commune’. Marx supported the Polish uprisings against tsarist Russia. He said in a speech in London in 1867:\n\nMarx supported the cause of Irish independence. In 1867, he wrote Engels: \"I used to think the separation of Ireland from England impossible. I now think it inevitable. The English working class will never accomplish anything until it has got rid of Ireland. ... English reaction in England had its roots ... in the subjugation of Ireland.\"\n\nMarx spent some time in French Algeria, which had been invaded and made a French colony in 1830, and had opportunity to observe life in colonial North Africa. He wrote about the colonial justice system, in which \"a form of torture has been used (and this happens ‘regularly’) to extract confessions from the Arabs; naturally it is done (like the English in India) by the ‘police’; the judge is supposed to know nothing at all about it.\" Marx was surprised by the arrogance of many European settlers in Algiers and wrote in a letter: \"when a European colonist dwells among the ‘lesser breeds,’ either as a settler or even on business, he generally regards himself as even more inviolable than handsome William I [a Prussian king]. Still, when it comes to bare-faced arrogance and presumptuousness vis-à-vis the ‘lesser breeds,’ the British and Dutch outdo the French.\" \n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\": \"Marx’s analysis of colonialism as a progressive force bringing modernization to a backward feudal society sounds like a transparent rationalization for foreign domination. His account of British domination, however, reflects the same ambivalence that he shows towards capitalism in Europe. In both cases, Marx recognizes the immense suffering brought about during the transition from feudal to bourgeois society while insisting that the transition is both necessary and ultimately progressive. He argues that the penetration of foreign commerce will cause a social revolution in India.\" \n\nMarx discussed British colonial rule in India in the \"New York Herald Tribune\" in June 1853: \n\nMarx's ideas have had a profound impact on world politics and intellectual thought. Followers of Marx have often debated amongst themselves over how to interpret Marx's writings and apply his concepts to the modern world. The legacy of Marx's thought has become contested between numerous tendencies, each of which sees itself as Marx's most accurate interpreter. In the political realm, these tendencies include Leninism, Marxism–Leninism, Trotskyism, Maoism, Luxemburgism and libertarian Marxism. Various currents have also developed in academic Marxism, often under influence of other views, resulting in structuralist Marxism, historical Marxism, phenomenological Marxism, analytical Marxism and Hegelian Marxism.\n\nFrom an academic perspective, Marx's work contributed to the birth of modern sociology. He has been cited as one of the 19th century's three masters of the \"school of suspicion\" alongside Friedrich Nietzsche and Sigmund Freud and as one of the three principal architects of modern social science along with Émile Durkheim and Max Weber. In contrast to other philosophers, Marx offered theories that could often be tested with the scientific method. Both Marx and Auguste Comte set out to develop scientifically justified ideologies in the wake of European secularisation and new developments in the philosophies of history and science. Working in the Hegelian tradition, Marx rejected Comtean sociological positivism in attempt to develop a \"science of society\". Karl Löwith considered Marx and Søren Kierkegaard to be the two greatest Hegelian philosophical successors. In modern sociological theory, Marxist sociology is recognised as one of the main classical perspectives. Isaiah Berlin considers Marx the true founder of modern sociology \"in so far as anyone can claim the title\". Beyond social science, he has also had a lasting legacy in philosophy, literature, the arts and the humanities.\n\nSocial theorists of the 20th and 21st centuries have pursued two main strategies in response to Marx. One move has been to reduce it to its analytical core, known as analytical Marxism. Another, more common, move has been to dilute the explanatory claims of Marx's social theory and emphasise the \"relative autonomy\" of aspects of social and economic life not directly related to Marx's central narrative of interaction between the development of the \"forces of production\" and the succession of \"modes of production\". Such has been for example the neo-Marxist theorising adopted by historians inspired by Marx's social theory, such as E. P. Thompson and Eric Hobsbawm. It has also been a line of thinking pursued by thinkers and activists like Antonio Gramsci who have sought to understand the opportunities and the difficulties of transformative political practice, seen in the light of Marxist social theory. Marx's ideas would also have a profound influence on subsequent artists and art history, with avant-garde movements across literature, visual art, music, film and theater.\n\nPolitically, Marx's legacy is more complex. Throughout the 20th century, revolutions in dozens of countries labelled themselves \"Marxist\"most notably the Russian Revolution, which led to the founding of the Soviet Union. Major world leaders including Vladimir Lenin, Mao Zedong, Fidel Castro, Salvador Allende, Josip Broz Tito, Kwame Nkrumah, Jawaharlal Nehru, Nelson Mandela, Xi Jinping, Jean-Claude Juncker and Thomas Sankara all cited Marx as an influence. Beyond where Marxist revolutions took place, Marx's ideas informed political parties worldwide. In countries associated with some Marxist claims have led political opponents to blame Marx for millions of deaths, but the fidelity of these varied revolutionaries, leaders and parties to Marx's work is highly contested and rejected by many Marxists. It is now common to distinguish between the legacy and influence of Marx specifically and the legacy and influence of those who shaped his ideas for political purposes.\n\nTwo centuries after his birth Marx remains both controversial and relevant, as the unveiling of a 4.5m statue of him (given by China, sculpted by Wu Weishan) in his birthplace of Trier, Germany in 2018 demonstrates. In 2017 a feature film, \"The Young Karl Marx\", featuring Marx, his wife Jenny Marx, and his collaborator Friedrich Engels, among other revolutionaries and intellectuals prior to the revolutions of 1848 received good reviews both for its historical accuracy and its brio in treating the intellectual life. \n\nIn May 2018, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker attended the event in Karl Marx's hometown of Trier, Germany, at which a statue of Marx, donated by the Chinese government, was unveiled. Juncker defended Marx, saying that \"Karl Marx was a philosopher, who thought into the future, had creative aspirations, and today he stands for things, which is he not responsible for and which he didn't cause, because many of the things he wrote down were redrafted into the opposite.\"\n\nThere are many other postage stamps; at least 22 countries issued postage stamps in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2780894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780894", "title": "Keun Nan Mun", "text": "Keun Nan Mun\n\nThe traditional star name Keun Nan Mun refers to one or both of:\n"}
{"id": "47804367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47804367", "title": "Kots Kaal Pato", "text": "Kots Kaal Pato\n\nKots Kaal Pato (English: Strangle the Duck) is a controversial event practiced among some Mayan youth in the village of Citilcum within the Mexican state of Yucatán. In the event, ducks, bound to high wooden crossbeams by their feet, are mutilated in a ceremony-like atmosphere. It has attracted condemnation from animal rights activists in the region, with several Mexican environmental authorities filing an animal cruelty complaint on the matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "57454781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57454781", "title": "Landslides (journal)", "text": "Landslides (journal)\n\nLandslides is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on all aspects of landslides. The topics covered by the journal range from landslide identification and monitoring, remote sensing, laboratory and field testing, to risk assessment and mitigation. It was established in 2004 as the official journal of the International Consortium on Landslides and is published by Springer Science+Business Media. The editor-in-chief is Kyoji Sassa (Kyoto University).\n\n\"Landslides\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the 2018 \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 3.811.\n"}
{"id": "5232171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5232171", "title": "Levant bole", "text": "Levant bole\n\nLevant bole is an earthy clay brought from the Levant, and historically used in medicine for the same purposes as Armenian bole. It was indeed so similar to Armenian bole that some believed them both to be the same, or at least mixtures of each other. Levant bole was used in several compositions, particularly diascodium, to give it color.\n\nChambers discusses two other similar boles: \n\n"}
{"id": "61344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61344", "title": "Lightning", "text": "Lightning\n\nLightning is a sudden electrostatic discharge that occurs typically during a thunderstorm. This discharge occurs between electrically charged regions of a cloud (called intra-cloud lightning or IC), between two clouds (CC lightning), or between a cloud and the ground (CG lightning).\n\nThe charged regions in the atmosphere temporarily equalize themselves through this discharge referred to as a flash. A lightning flash can also be a \"strike\" if it involves an object on the ground. Lightning creates light in the form of black body radiation from the very hot plasma created by the electron flow, and sound in the form of thunder. Lightning may be seen and not heard when it occurs at a distance too great for the sound to carry as far as the light from the strike or flash.\n\nThe details of the charging process are still being studied by scientists, but there is general agreement on some of the basic concepts of thunderstorm electrification. The main charging area in a thunderstorm occurs in the central part of the storm where air is moving upward rapidly (updraft) and temperatures range from , see figure to the right. At that place, the combination of temperature and rapid upward air movement produces a mixture of super-cooled cloud droplets (small water droplets below freezing), small ice crystals, and graupel (soft hail). The updraft carries the super-cooled cloud droplets and very small ice crystals upward. At the same time, the graupel, which is considerably larger and denser, tends to fall or be suspended in the rising air.\n\nThe differences in the movement of the precipitation cause collisions to occur. When the rising ice crystals collide with graupel, the ice crystals become positively charged and the graupel becomes negatively charged. See figure to the left. The updraft carries the positively charged ice crystals upward toward the top of the storm cloud. The larger and denser graupel is either suspended in the middle of the thunderstorm cloud or falls toward the lower part of the storm.\n\nThe result is that the upper part of the thunderstorm cloud becomes positively charged while the middle to lower part of the thunderstorm cloud becomes negatively charged.\n\nThe upward motions within the storm and winds at higher levels in the atmosphere tend to cause the small ice crystals (and positive charge) in the upper part of the thunderstorm cloud to spread out horizontally some distance from thunderstorm cloud base. This part of the thunderstorm cloud is called the anvil. While this is the main charging process for the thunderstorm cloud, some of these charges can be redistributed by air movements within the storm (updrafts and downdrafts). In addition, there is a small but important positive charge buildup near the bottom of the thunderstorm cloud due to the precipitation and warmer temperatures.\n\nOn Earth, the lightning frequency is approximately 40–50 times a second or nearly 1.4 billion flashes per year and the average duration is 0.2 seconds made up from a number of much shorter flashes (strokes) of around 60 to 70 microseconds.\n\nMany factors affect the frequency, distribution, strength and physical properties of a typical lightning flash in a particular region of the world. These factors include ground elevation, latitude, prevailing wind currents, relative humidity, proximity to warm and cold bodies of water, etc. To a certain degree, the ratio between IC (in-cloud or intracloud), CC (cloud-to-cloud) and CG (cloud-to-ground) lightning may also vary by season in middle latitudes.\nBecause human beings are terrestrial and most of their possessions are on the Earth where lightning can damage or destroy them, CG lightning is the most studied and best understood of the three types, even though IC and CC are more common types of lightning. Lightning's relative unpredictability limits a complete explanation of how or why it occurs, even after hundreds of years of scientific investigation.\n\nA typical cloud-to-ground lightning flash culminates in the formation of an electrically conducting plasma channel through the air in excess of tall, from within the cloud to the ground's surface. The actual discharge is the final stage of a very complex process. At its peak, a typical thunderstorm produces three or more \"strikes\" to the Earth per minute. Lightning primarily occurs when warm air is mixed with colder air masses, resulting in atmospheric disturbances necessary for polarizing the atmosphere. However, it can also occur during dust storms, forest fires, tornadoes, volcanic eruptions, and even in the cold of winter, where the lightning is known as thundersnow. Hurricanes typically generate some lightning, mainly in the rainbands as much as from the center.\n\nThe science of lightning is called \"fulminology\", and the fear of lightning is called \"astraphobia\".\n\nLightning is not distributed evenly around the planet, as shown in the map.\n\nAbout 70% of lightning occurs over land in the tropics where atmospheric convection is the greatest. This occurs from both the mixture of warmer and colder air masses, as well as differences in moisture concentrations, and it generally happens at the boundaries between them. The flow of warm ocean currents past drier land masses, such as the Gulf Stream, partially explains the elevated frequency of lightning in the Southeast United States. Because the influence of small or absent land masses in the vast stretches of the world's oceans limits the differences between these variants in the atmosphere, lightning is notably less frequent there than over larger landforms. The North and South Poles are limited in their coverage of thunderstorms and therefore result in areas with the least amount of lightning.\n\nIn general, cloud-to-ground (CG) lightning flashes account for only 25% of all total lightning flashes worldwide. Since the base of a thunderstorm is usually negatively charged, this is where most CG lightning originates. This region is typically at the elevation where freezing occurs within the cloud. Freezing, combined with collisions between ice and water, appears to be a critical part of the initial charge development and separation process. During wind-driven collisions, ice crystals tend to develop a positive charge, while a heavier, slushy mixture of ice and water (called graupel) develops a negative charge. Updrafts within a storm cloud separate the lighter ice crystals from the heavier graupel, causing the top region of the cloud to accumulate a positive space charge while the lower level accumulates a negative space charge.\n\nBecause the concentrated charge within the cloud must exceed the insulating properties of air, and this increases proportionally to the distance between the cloud and the ground, the proportion of CG strikes (versus cloud-to-cloud (CC) or in-cloud (IC) discharges) becomes greater when the cloud is closer to the ground. In the tropics, where the freezing level is generally higher in the atmosphere, only 10% of lightning flashes are CG. At the latitude of Norway (around 60° North latitude), where the freezing elevation is lower, 50% of lightning is CG.\n\nLightning is usually produced by cumulonimbus clouds, which have bases that are typically 1–2 km (0.6–1.25 miles) above the ground and tops up to in height.\n\nLightning hotspots: The place on Earth where lightning occurs most often is near the small village of Kifuka in the mountains of the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the elevation is around . On average, this region receives 158 lightning strikes per 1 square kilometer (0.39 sq mi) per year. Lake Maracaibo in Venezuela averages 297 days per year with lightning activity. Other lightning hotspots include Catatumbo in Venezuela, Singapore, and Lightning Alley in Central Florida.\n\nIn order for an electrostatic discharge to occur, two preconditions are necessary: firstly, a sufficiently high electric potential between two regions of space must exist, and secondly, a high-resistance medium must obstruct the free, unimpeded equalization of the opposite charges.\n\nIt is well understood that during a thunderstorm there is charge separation and aggregation in certain regions of the cloud; however the exact processes by which this occurs are not fully understood.\n\nThe atmosphere provides the electrical insulation, or barrier, that prevents free equalization between charged regions of opposite polarity. This is overcome by \"lightning\", a complex process referred to as the lightning \"flash\".\n\nAs a thundercloud moves over the surface of the Earth, an equal electric charge, but of opposite polarity, is induced on the Earth's surface underneath the cloud. The induced positive surface charge, when measured against a fixed point, will be small as the thundercloud approaches, increasing as the center of the storm arrives and dropping as the thundercloud passes. The referential value of the induced surface charge could be roughly represented as a bell curve.\n\nThe oppositely charged regions create an electric field within the air between them. This electric field varies in relation to the strength of the surface charge on the base of the thundercloud – the greater the accumulated charge, the higher the electrical field.\n\nThe best studied and understood form of lightning is cloud to ground (CG). Although more common, intracloud (IC) and cloud to cloud (CC) flashes are very difficult to study given there are no \"physical\" points to monitor inside the clouds. Also, given the very low probability lightning will strike the same point repeatedly and consistently, scientific inquiry is difficult at best even in the areas of high CG frequency. As such, knowing flash propagation is similar amongst all forms of lightning, the best means to describe the process is through an examination of the most studied form, cloud to ground. \n\nIn a process not well understood, a bidirectional channel of ionized air, called a \"leader\", is initiated between oppositely-charged regions in a thundercloud. Leaders are electrically conductive channels of ionized gas that propagate through, or are otherwise attracted to, regions with a charge opposite of that of the leader tip. The negative end of the bidirectional leader fills a positive charge region, also called a well, inside the cloud while the positive end fills a negative charge well. Leaders often split, forming branches in a tree-like pattern. In addition, negative and some positive leaders travel in a discontinuous fashion, in a process called \"stepping\". The resulting jerky movement of the leaders can be readily observed in slow-motion videos of lightning flashes.\n\nIt is possible for one end of the leader to fill the oppositely-charged well entirely while the other end is still active. When this happens, the leader end which filled the well may propagate outside of the thundercloud and result in either a cloud-to-air flash or a cloud-to-ground flash. In a typical cloud-to-ground flash, a bidirectional leader initiates between the main negative and lower positive charge regions in a thundercloud. The weaker positive charge region is filled quickly by the negative leader which then propagates toward the inductively-charged ground.\n\nThe positively and negatively charged leaders proceed in opposite directions, positive upwards within the cloud and negative towards the earth. Both ionic channels proceed, in their respective directions, in a number of successive spurts. Each leader \"pools\" ions at the leading tips, shooting out one or more new leaders, momentarily pooling again to concentrate charged ions, then shooting out another leader. The negative leader continues to propagate and split as it heads downward, often speeding up as it get closer to the Earth's surface.\n\nAbout 90% of ionic channel lengths between \"pools\" are approximately in length. The establishment of the ionic channel takes a comparatively long amount of time (hundreds of milliseconds) in comparison to the resulting discharge, which occurs within a few dozen microseconds. The electric current needed to establish the channel, measured in the tens or hundreds of amperes, is dwarfed by subsequent currents during the actual discharge.\n\nInitiation of the lightning leaders is not well understood. The electric field strength within the thundercloud is not typically large enough to initiate this process by itself. Many hypotheses have been proposed. One theory postulates that showers of relativistic electrons are created by cosmic rays and are then accelerated to higher velocities via a process called runaway breakdown. As these relativistic electrons collide and ionize neutral air molecules, they initiate leader formation. Another theory invokes locally enhanced electric fields being formed near elongated water droplets or ice crystals. Percolation theory, especially for the case of biased percolation, describes random connectivity phenomena, which produce an evolution of connected structures similar to that of lightning strikes.\n\nWhen a stepped leader approaches the ground, the presence of opposite charges on the ground enhances the strength of the electric field. The electric field is strongest on grounded objects whose tops are closest to the base of the thundercloud, such as trees and tall buildings. If the electric field is strong enough, a positively charged ionic channel, called a positive or upward streamer, can develop from these points. This was first theorized by Heinz Kasemir.\n\nAs negatively charged leaders approach, increasing the localized electric field strength, grounded objects already experiencing corona discharge exceed a threshold and form upward streamers.\n\nOnce a downward leader connects to an available upward leader, a process referred to as attachment, a low-resistance path is formed and discharge may occur. Photographs have been taken in which unattached streamers are clearly visible. The unattached downward leaders are also visible in branched lightning, none of which are connected to the earth, although it may appear they are. High-speed videos can show the attachment process in progress. \n\nOnce a conductive channel bridges the air gap between the negative charge excess in the cloud and the positive surface charge excess below, there is a large drop in resistance across the lightning channel. Electrons accelerate rapidly as a result in a zone beginning at the point of attachment, which expands across the entire leader network at a fraction of the speed of light. This is the 'return stroke' and it is the most luminous and noticeable part of the lightning discharge.\n\nA large electric current flows along the plasma channel from the cloud to the ground, neutralising the positive ground charge as electrons flow away from the strike point to the surrounding area. This huge surge of current creates large radial voltage differences along the surface of the ground. Called step potentials, they are responsible for more injuries and deaths than the strike itself. Electricity takes every path available to it.\nA portion of the return stroke current will often preferentially flow through one leg and out another, electrocuting an unlucky human or animal standing near the point where the lightning strikes.\n\nThe electric current of the return stroke averages 30 kiloamperes for a typical negative CG flash, often referred to as \"negative CG\" lightning. In some cases, a ground to cloud (GC) lightning flash may originate from a positively charged region on the ground below a storm. These discharges normally originate from the tops of very tall structures, such as communications antennas. The rate at which the return stroke current travels has been found to be around 100,000 km/s.\n\nThe massive flow of electric current occurring during the return stroke combined with the rate at which it occurs (measured in microseconds) rapidly superheats the completed leader channel, forming a highly electrically conductive plasma channel. The core temperature of the plasma during the return stroke may exceed 50,000 K, causing it to brilliantly radiate with a blue-white color. Once the electric current stops flowing, the channel cools and dissipates over tens or hundreds of milliseconds, often disappearing as fragmented patches of glowing gas. The nearly instantaneous heating during the return stroke causes the air to expand explosively, producing a powerful shock wave which is heard as thunder.\n\nHigh-speed videos (examined frame-by-frame) show that most negative CG lightning flashes are made up of 3 or 4 individual strokes, though there may be as many as 30.\n\nEach re-strike is separated by a relatively large amount of time, typically 40 to 50 milliseconds, as other charged regions in the cloud are discharged in subsequent strokes. Re-strikes often cause a noticeable \"strobe light\" effect.\n\nTo understand why multiple return strokes utilize the same lightning channel, one needs to understand the behavior of positive leaders, which a typical ground flash effectively becomes following the negative leader's connection with the ground. Positive leaders decay more rapidly than negative leaders do. For reasons not well understood, bidirectional leaders tend to initiate on the tips of the decayed positive leaders in which the negative end attempts to re-ionize the leader network. These leaders, also called recoil leaders, usually decay shortly after their formation. When they do manage to make contact with a conductive portion of the main leader network, a return stroke-like process occurs and a dart leader travels across all, or a portion of the length of the original leader. The dart leaders making connections with the ground is what causes a majority of subsequent return strokes.\n\nEach successive stroke is preceded by intermediate dart leader strokes that have a faster rise time but lower amplitude than the initial return stroke. Each subsequent stroke usually re-uses the discharge channel taken by the previous one, but the channel may be offset from its previous position as wind displaces the hot channel.\n\nSince recoil and dart leader processes do not occur on negative leaders, subsequent return strokes very seldom utilize the same channel on positive ground flashes which are explained later in the article.\n\nThe electric current within a typical negative CG lightning discharge rises very quickly to its peak value in 1–10 microseconds, then decays more slowly over 50–200 microseconds. The transient nature of the current within a lightning flash results in several phenomena that need to be addressed in the effective protection of ground-based structures. Rapidly changing currents tend to travel on the surface of a conductor, in what is called the skin effect, unlike direct currents, which \"flow through\" the entire conductor like water through a hose. Hence, conductors used in the protection of facilities tend to be multi-stranded, with small wires woven together. This increases the total bundle surface area in inverse proportion to the individual strand radius, for a fixed total cross-sectional area.\n\nThe rapidly changing currents also create electromagnetic pulses (EMPs) that radiate outward from the ionic channel. This is a characteristic of all electrical discharges. The radiated pulses rapidly weaken as their distance from the origin increases. However, if they pass over conductive elements such as power lines, communication lines, or metallic pipes, they may induce a current which travels outward to its termination. This is the \"surge\" that, more often than not, results in the destruction of delicate electronics, electrical appliances, or electric motors. Devices known as surge protectors (SPD) or transient voltage surge suppressors (TVSS) attached in parallel with these lines can detect the lightning flash's transient irregular current, and, through an alteration of its physical properties, route the spike to an attached earthing ground, thereby protecting the equipment from damage.\n\nThere are three primary types of lightning, defined by what is at the \"ends\" of a flash channel.\nThere are variations of each type, such as \"positive\" versus \"negative\" CG flashes, that have different physical characteristics common to each which can be measured. Different common names used to describe a particular lightning event may be attributed to the same or different events.\n\nCloud-to-ground (CG) lightning is a lightning discharge between a thundercloud and the ground. It is initiated by a stepped leader moving down from the cloud, which is met by a streamer moving up from the ground.\n\nCG is the least common, but best understood of all types of lightning. It is easier to study scientifically, because it terminates on a physical object, namely the Earth, and lends itself to being measured by instruments on the ground. Of the three primary types of lightning, it poses the greatest threat to life and property since it terminates or \"strikes\" the Earth. \nThe overall discharge, termed a flash, is composed of a number of processes such as preliminary breakdown, stepped leaders, connecting leaders, return strokes, dart leaders and subsequent return strokes.\n\nCloud-to-ground (CG) lightning is either positive or negative, as defined by the direction of the conventional electric current from cloud to ground. Most CG lightning is negative, meaning that a negative charge is transferred to ground and electrons travel downward along the lightning channel. The reverse happens in a positive CG flash, where electrons travel upward along the lightning channel and a positive charge is transferred to the ground. Positive lightning is less common than negative lightning, and on average makes up less than 5% of all lightning strikes.\n\nThere are six different mechanisms theorized to result in the formation of downward positive lightning.\n\nContrary to popular belief, positive lightning flashes do not necessarily originate from the anvil or the upper positive charge region and strike a rain-free area outside of the thunderstorm. This belief is based on the outdated idea that lightning leaders are unipolar in nature and originating from their respective charge region.\n\nPositive lightning strikes tend to be much more intense than their negative counterparts. An average bolt of negative lightning carries an electric current of 30,000 amperes (30 kA), and transfers 15 coulombs of electric charge and 500 megajoules of energy. Large bolts of negative lightning can carry up to 120 kA and 350 coulombs. The average positive ground flash has roughly double the peak current of a typical negative flash, and can produce peak currents up to 400,000 amperes (400 kA) and charges of several hundred coulombs. Furthermore, positive ground flashes with high peak currents are commonly followed by long continuing currents, a correlation not seen in negative ground flashes.\n\nAs a result of their greater power, as well as lack of warning, positive lightning strikes are considerably more dangerous. Due to the aforementioned tendency for positive ground flashes to produce both high peak currents and long continuing current, they are capable of heating surfaces to much higher levels which increases the likelihood of a fire being ignited.\n\nPositive lightning has also been shown to trigger the occurrence of upward lightning flashes from the tops of tall structures and is largely responsible for the initiation of sprites several tens of kilometers above ground level. Positive lightning tends to occur more frequently in winter storms, as with thundersnow, during intense tornadoes and in the dissipation stage of a thunderstorm. Huge quantities of extremely low frequency (ELF) and very low frequency (VLF) radio waves are also generated.\n\nA unique form of cloud-to-ground lightning exists where lightning appears to exit from the cumulonimbus cloud and propagate a considerable distance through clear air before veering towards, and striking, the ground. For this reason, they are known as \"bolts from the blue\". Despite the popular misconception that these are positive lightning strikes due to them seemingly originating from the positive charge region, observations have shown that these are in fact negative flashes. They begin as intracloud flashes within the cloud, the negative leader then exits the cloud from the positive charge region before propagating through clear air and striking the ground some distance away.\n\nLightning discharges may occur between areas of cloud without contacting the ground. When it occurs between two separate clouds it is known as \"inter-cloud lightning\", and when it occurs between areas of differing electric potential within a single cloud it is known as \"intra-cloud lightning\". Intra-cloud lightning is the most frequently occurring type.\n\nIntra-cloud lightning most commonly occurs between the upper anvil portion and lower reaches of a given thunderstorm. This lightning can sometimes be observed at great distances at night as so-called \"sheet lightning\". In such instances, the observer may see only a flash of light without hearing any thunder.\nAnother term used for cloud–cloud or cloud–cloud–ground lightning is \"Anvil Crawler\", due to the habit of charge, typically originating beneath or within the anvil and scrambling through the upper cloud layers of a thunderstorm, often generating dramatic multiple branch strokes. These are usually seen as a thunderstorm passes over the observer or begins to decay. The most vivid crawler behavior occurs in well developed thunderstorms that feature extensive rear anvil shearing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nObjects struck by lightning experience heat and magnetic forces of great magnitude. The heat created by lightning currents traveling through a tree may vaporize its sap, causing a steam explosion that bursts the trunk. As lightning travels through sandy soil, the soil surrounding the plasma channel may melt, forming tubular structures called fulgurites. Even though roughly 90 percent of people struck by lightning survive, humans or animals struck by lightning may suffer severe injury due to internal organ and nervous system damage. Buildings or tall structures hit by lightning may be damaged as the lightning seeks unintended paths to ground. By safely conducting a lightning strike to ground, a lightning protection system can greatly reduce the probability of severe property damage. Lightning also serves an important role in the nitrogen cycle by oxidizing diatomic nitrogen in the air into nitrates which are deposited by rain and can fertilize the growth of plants and other organisms.\n\nBecause the electrostatic discharge of terrestrial lightning superheats the air to plasma temperatures along the length of the discharge channel in a short duration, kinetic theory dictates gaseous molecules undergo a rapid increase in pressure and thus expand outward from the lightning creating a shock wave audible as thunder. Since the sound waves propagate not from a single point source but along the length of the lightning's path, the sound origin's varying distances from the observer can generate a rolling or rumbling effect. Perception of the sonic characteristics is further complicated by factors such as the irregular and possibly branching geometry of the lightning channel, by acoustic echoing from terrain, and by the typically multiple-stroke characteristic of the lightning strike.\n\nLight travels at about 300,000,000 m/s, and sound travels through air at about 343 m/s. An observer can approximate the distance to the strike by timing the interval between the visible lightning and the audible thunder it generates. A lightning flash preceding its thunder by one second would be approximately in distance; a delay of three seconds would indicate a distance of about (3×343 m). A flash preceding thunder by five seconds would indicate a distance of approximately (5×343 m). Consequently, a lightning strike observed at a very close distance will be accompanied by a sudden clap of thunder, with almost no perceptible time lapse, possibly accompanied by the smell of ozone (O).\n\nLightning at a sufficient distance may be seen and not heard; there is data that a lightning storm can be seen at over 100 miles whereas the thunder travels about 20 miles. Anecdotally, there are many examples of people saying 'the storm was directly overhead or all-around and yet there was no thunder'. There is no coherent data available.\n\nThe production of X-rays by a bolt of lightning was theoretically predicted as early as 1925 but no evidence was found until 2001/2002, when researchers at the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology detected X-ray emissions from an induced lightning strike along a grounded wire trailed behind a rocket shot into a storm cloud. In the same year University of Florida and Florida Tech researchers used an array of electric field and X-ray detectors at a lightning research facility in North Florida to confirm that natural lightning makes X-rays in large quantities during the propagation of stepped leaders. The cause of the X-ray emissions is still a matter for research, as the temperature of lightning is too low to account for the X-rays observed.\n\nA number of observations by space-based telescopes have revealed even higher energy gamma ray emissions, the so-called terrestrial gamma-ray flashes (TGFs). These observations pose a challenge to current theories of lightning, especially with the recent discovery of the clear signatures of antimatter produced in lightning. Recent research has shown that secondary species, produced by these TGFs, such as electrons, positrons, neutrons or protons, can gain energies of up to several tens of MeV.\n\nThe very high temperatures generated by lightning lead to significant local increases in ozone and oxides of Nitrogen. Each lightning flash in temperate and sub-tropical areas produces 7kg of NOx on average. In the troposphere the effect of lightning can increase NOx by 90% and ozone by 30% .\n\nVolcanic activity produces lightning-friendly conditions in multiple ways. The enormous quantity of pulverized material and gases explosively ejected into the atmosphere creates a dense plume of particles. The ash density and constant motion within the volcanic plume produces charge by frictional interactions (triboelectrification), resulting in very powerful and very frequent flashes as the cloud attempts to neutralize itself. Due to the extensive solid material (ash) content, unlike the water rich charge generating zones of a normal thundercloud, it is often called a dirty thunderstorm.\n\n\nLightning has been observed within the atmospheres of other planets, such as Jupiter and Saturn. Although in the minority on Earth, superbolts appear to be common on Jupiter.\n\nLightning on Venus has been a controversial subject after decades of study. During the Soviet Venera and U.S. Pioneer missions of the 1970s and 1980s, signals suggesting lightning may be present in the upper atmosphere were detected. Although the Cassini–Huygens mission fly-by of Venus in 1999 detected no signs of lightning, the observation window lasted mere hours. Radio pulses recorded by the spacecraft Venus Express (which began orbiting Venus in April 2006) may originate from lightning on Venus.\n\n\nThunder is heard as a rolling, gradually dissipating rumble because the sound from different portions of a long stroke arrives at slightly different times.\n\nWhen the local electric field exceeds the dielectric strength of damp air (about 3 million volts per meter), electrical discharge results in a \"strike\", often followed by commensurate discharges branching from the same path. (See image, right.) Mechanisms that cause the charges to build up to lightning are still a matter of scientific investigation. New study confirming dielectric breakdown is involved. Rison 2016. Lightning may be caused by the circulation of warm moisture-filled air through electric fields. Ice or water particles then accumulate charge as in a Van de Graaff generator.\n\nResearchers at the University of Florida found that the final one-dimensional speeds of 10 flashes observed were between 1.0 and 1.4 m/s, with an average of 4.4 m/s.\n\nThe earliest detector invented to warn of the approach of a thunder storm was the lightning bell. Benjamin Franklin installed one such device in his house. \n\nLightning discharges generate a wide range of electromagnetic radiations, including radio-frequency pulses. The times at which a pulse from a given lightning discharge arrives at several receivers can be used to locate the source of the discharge. The United States federal government has constructed a nationwide grid of such lightning detectors, allowing lightning discharges to be tracked in real time throughout the continental U.S.\n\nThe Earth-ionosphere waveguide traps electromagnetic VLF- and ELF waves. Electromagnetic pulses transmitted by lightning strikes propagate within that waveguide. The waveguide is dispersive, which means that their group velocity depends on frequency. The difference of the group time delay of a lightning pulse at adjacent frequencies is proportional to the distance between transmitter and receiver. Together with direction finding methods, this allows locating lightning strikes up to distances of 10,000 km from their origin. Moreover, the eigenfrequencies of the Earth-ionospheric waveguide, the Schumann resonances\nat about 7.5 Hz, are used to determine the global thunderstorm activity.\n\nIn addition to ground-based lightning detection, several instruments aboard satellites have been constructed to observe lightning distribution. These include the Optical Transient Detector (OTD), aboard the OrbView-1 satellite launched on April 3, 1995, and the subsequent Lightning Imaging Sensor (LIS) aboard TRMM launched on November 28, 1997.\n\n\nThe movement of electrical charges produces a magnetic field (see electromagnetism). The intense currents of a lightning discharge create a fleeting but very strong magnetic field. Where the lightning current path passes through rock, soil, or metal these materials can become permanently magnetized. This effect is known as lightning-induced remanent magnetism, or LIRM. These currents follow the least resistive path, often horizontally near the surface but sometimes vertically, where faults, ore bodies, or ground water offers a less resistive path. One theory suggests that lodestones, natural magnets encountered in ancient times, were created in this manner.\n\nLightning-induced magnetic anomalies can be mapped in the ground, and analysis of magnetized materials can confirm lightning was the source of the magnetization and provide an estimate of the peak current of the lightning discharge.\n\nSome high energy cosmic rays produced by supernovas as well as solar particles from the solar wind, enter the atmosphere and electrify the air, which may create pathways for lightning bolts.\n\nIn many cultures, lightning has been viewed as part of a deity or a deity in and of itself. These include the Greek god Zeus, the Aztec god Tlaloc, the Mayan God K, Slavic mythology's Perun, the Baltic Pērkons/Perkūnas, Thor in Norse mythology, Ukko in Finnish mythology, the Hindu god Indra, and the Shinto god Raijin. In the traditional religion of the African Bantu tribes, lightning is a sign of the ire of the gods. Verses in the Jewish religion and in Islam also ascribe supernatural importance to lightning. In Christianity, the Second Coming of Jesus is compared to lightning.\n\nThe expression \"Lightning never strikes twice (in the same place)\" is similar to \"Opportunity never knocks twice\" in the vein of a \"once in a lifetime\" opportunity, \"i.e.\", something that is generally considered improbable. Lightning occurs frequently and more so in specific areas. Since various factors alter the probability of strikes at any given location, repeat lightning strikes have a very low probability (but are not impossible). Similarly, \"A bolt from the blue\" refers to something totally unexpected.\n\nSome political parties use lightning flashes as a symbol of power, such as the People's Action Party in Singapore, the British Union of Fascists during the 1930s, and the National States' Rights Party in the United States during the 1950s. The Schutzstaffel, the paramilitary wing of the Nazi Party, used the Sig rune in their logo which symbolizes lightning. The German word Blitzkrieg, which means \"lightning war\", was a major offensive strategy of the German army during World War II.\n\nIn French and Italian, the expression for \"Love at first sight\" is \"coup de foudre\" and \"colpo di fulmine\", respectively, which literally translated means \"lightning strike\". Some European languages have a separate word for lightning which strikes the ground (as opposed to lightning in general); often it is a cognate of the English word \"rays\". The name of New Zealand's most celebrated thoroughbred horse, Phar Lap, derives from the shared Zhuang and Thai word for lightning.\n\nThe bolt of lightning in heraldry is called a thunderbolt and is shown as a zigzag with non-pointed ends. This symbol usually represents power and speed.\n\nThe lightning bolt is used to represent the instantaneous communication capabilities of electrically powered telegraphs and radios. It was a commonly used motif in Art Deco design, especially the zig-zag Art Deco design of the late 1920s. The lightning bolt is a common insignia for military communications units throughout the world. A lightning bolt is also the NATO symbol for a signal asset.\n\nThe Unicode symbol for lightning is ☇ U+2607\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6985727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6985727", "title": "List of California fourteeners", "text": "List of California fourteeners\n\nIn the mountaineering parlance of the Western United States, a \"fourteener\" is a mountain peak with an elevation of at least . This is a complete list of the 12 fourteeners in the U.S. state of California with at least of topographic prominence. The main fourteener article has a list of all of the fourteeners in the United States, as well as references, more information about how the list is determined, and caveats about accuracy.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 12 California summits with at least of elevation and at least of topographic prominence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31137235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31137235", "title": "List of Commelinaceae genera", "text": "List of Commelinaceae genera\n\nThis is a list of \"Commelinaceae\" genera as of 2010. This list includes all genera recognised as current by the Kew World Checklist of Selected Plant Families.\n\n\"Note\"\n"}
{"id": "32463531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32463531", "title": "List of French electric utilities", "text": "List of French electric utilities\n\nThis is a list of French electric companies :\n\n"}
{"id": "7105653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7105653", "title": "List of Salticidae species (G–J)", "text": "List of Salticidae species (G–J)\n\nList of Salticidae species G–J includes all described species with a scientific name starting from G to J of the spider family Salticidae as of December 16, 2016.\n\n\"Galianora\" \n\n\"Gambaquezonia\" \n\n\"Gastromicans\" \n\n\"Gavarilla\" \n\n\"Gedea\" \n\n\"Gelotia\" \n\n\"Ghelna\" \n\n\"Ghumattus\" \n\n\"Giuiria\" \n\n\"Goleba\" \n\n\"Goleta\" \n\n\"Gorgasella\" \n\n\"Gramenca\" \n\n\"Grayenulla\" \n\n\"Gypogyna\" \n\n\"Habrocestoides\" \n\n\"Habrocestum\" \n\n\"Habronattus\" \n\n\"Hakka\" \n\n\"Haplopsecas\" \n\n\"Harmochirus\" \n\n\"Hasarina\" \n\n\"Hasarinella\" \n\n\"Hasarius\" \n\n\"Havaika\" \n\n\"Helicius\" \n\n\"Heliophanillus\" \n\n\"Heliophanoides\" \n\n\"Heliophanus\" \n\n\"Helpis\" \n\n\"Helvetia\" \n\n\"Hentzia\" \n\n\"Heratemita\" \n\n\"Hermotimus\" \n\n\"Hindumanes\" \n\n\"Hinewaia\" \n\n\"Hispo\" \n\n\"Hisukattus\" \n\n\"Holcolaetis\" \n\n\"Holoplatys\" \n\n\"Homalattus\" \n\n\"Huntiglennia\" \n\n\"Hurius\" \n\n\"Hyctiota\" \n\n\"Hyetussa\" \n\n\"Hyllus\" \n\n\"Hypaeus\" \n\n\"Hypoblemum\" \n\n\"Hypositticus\" \n\n\"Icius\" \n\n\"Idastrandia\" \n\n\"Ilargus\" \n\n\"Imperceptus\" \n\n\"Indomarengo\" \n\n\"Iona\" \n\n\"Iranattus\" \n\n\"Irura\" \n\n\"Itata\" \n\n\"Jacksonoides\" \n\n\"Jajpurattus\" \n\n\"Jaluiticola\" \n\n\"Jerzego\" \n\n\"Jollas\" \n\n\"Jotus\" \n\n\"Judalana\" \n\n"}
{"id": "31232858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31232858", "title": "List of earthquakes in Colombia", "text": "List of earthquakes in Colombia\n\nThis is a list of earthquakes in Colombia. Colombia is a seismically active country and has a large seismic risk in many areas of its territory due to its location at the boundaries of the Malpelo, Panama, Caribbean, North Andes (where most earthquakes occurred) and South American Plates along the Pacific Ring of Fire.\n\nThe first historically registered earthquake felt in Colombia occurred on September 11, 1530, around 10:00 AM, probably with the epicentre near Cumaná, Venezuela. The earthquake was documented by Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés in his work \"La Historia general de las Indias\" and by friar Bartolomé de las Casas in his book \"Historia de Las Indias\". The first documented earthquake with its epicentre in present-day Colombia territory took place in 1566, with the epicentre estimated around Santander in the department of Cauca. Other important historical earthquakes have been documented by Luis Vargas Jurado, from 1703 until 1764 and Santiago Pérez Valencia between 1785 and 1843.\n\nThe most devastating earthquake for Colombia happened on August 15 and 16, 1868 off the coast of Ecuador, leading to approximately 70,000 fatalities. The strongest earthquake, with an estimated moment magnitude of 8.8 also happened offshore Ecuador in 1906. Other major earthquakes were the 1875 Cúcuta earthquake with around 10,000 deaths and the 1999 Armenia earthquake with an intensity of X. The deepest registered earthquake happened in the department of Amazonas in 1970 at an estimated depth of almost . The 1785 Viceroyalty of New Granada earthquake sparked the birth of journalism in Colombia, initiated by Manuel del Socorro Rodríguez, six years after the publication of the \"Aviso del Terremoto\" about the earthquake with its epicentre in La Calera, Cundinamarca.\n\nThe main seismically active zone is the subduction zone of the Malpelo, formerly Nazca, Plate with strong earthquakes in 1906, 1947, 1958 and 1979. The most active onshore fault systems are the Bucaramanga-Santa Marta Fault with earthquakes frequently occurring at the Bucaramanga Nest around Aratoca, Santander, the Romeral Fault System in the Central Ranges (Popayán 1983 and Armenia 1999) and the long Eastern Frontal Fault System in the Eastern Ranges. Other strong earthquakes are associated with the Murindó (M 7.2, 1992), Irlanda (M 6.8, 1994), Tucurá (M 6.7, 1952), Bahía Solano (M 6.5, 1970), and Mutatá Faults (M 6.0, 2016).\n\n\"Note: out of many, only earthquakes of M 6.0 and higher, deadly, important historical, and unusual earthquakes are included in this list\"<br>\n\"Magnitudes - M Moment magnitude scale, M Richter magnitude scale, M Surface wave magnitude, ? Unknown scale\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15565427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15565427", "title": "List of ecoregions in Zimbabwe", "text": "List of ecoregions in Zimbabwe\n\nThe following is a list of ecoregions in Zimbabwe, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF).\n\n\"by major habitat type\"\n\n\n\n\"by bioregion\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48211966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48211966", "title": "List of star systems within 40–45 light-years", "text": "List of star systems within 40–45 light-years\n\nThis is a list of star systems within 40-45 light years of Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "639765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639765", "title": "Lists of stars by constellation", "text": "Lists of stars by constellation\n\nAll stars but one can be associated with an IAU constellation. IAU constellations are areas of the sky. Although there are only 88 IAU constellations, the sky is actually divided into 89 irregularly shaped boxes as the constellation Serpens is split into two separate sections, Serpens Caput (the snake's head) to the west and Serpens Cauda (the snake's tail) to the east.\n\nThe only star that does not belong to a constellation is the Sun. The Sun travels through the 13 constellations along the ecliptic, the 12 of the Zodiac and Ophiuchus.\n\nAmong the remaining stars, the nearer ones exhibit proper motion, so it is only a matter of time before some of them cross a constellation boundary and switch constellations as a consequence. In 1992, Rho Aquilae became the first star to have its Bayer designation \"invalidated\" by moving to a neighbouring constellation—it is now a star of the constellation Delphinus.\n\nStars are listed in the appropriate lists for the constellation, as follows:\nConstellation\n\nNote that these lists are currently unfinished, and there may be stars missing that satisfy these conditions. If you come across one, please feel free to add it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51975796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51975796", "title": "New England water resource region", "text": "New England water resource region\n\nThe New England water resource region is one of 21 major geographic areas, or regions, in the first level of classification used by the United States Geological Survey to divide and sub-divide the United States into successively smaller hydrologic units. These geographic areas contain either the drainage area of a major river, or the combined drainage areas of a series of rivers.\nThe New England region, which is listed with a 2-digit hydrologic unit code (HUC) of 01, has an approximate size of , and consists of 11 sub-regions, which are listed with the 4-digit HUCs 0101 through 0111.\n\nThis region includes the drainage within the United States that ultimately discharges into: (a) the Bay of Fundy; (b) the Atlantic Ocean within and between the states of Maine and Connecticut; (c) Long Island Sound north of the New York-Connecticut state line; and (d) the Riviere St. Francois, a tributary of the Saint Lawrence River. Includes all of Maine, New Hampshire and Rhode Island, and parts of Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, and Vermont.\n\n"}
{"id": "146249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146249", "title": "Outer core", "text": "Outer core\n\nThe outer core of the Earth is a fluid layer about thick and composed of mostly iron and nickel that lies above Earth's solid inner core and below its mantle. Its outer boundary lies beneath Earth's surface. The transition between the inner core and outer core is located approximately beneath the Earth's surface. Unlike the inner core, the outer core is liquid. The inner core is also referred to as the solid core.\n\nSeismic inversions of body waves and normal modes constrain the radius of the outer core to be 3483 km with an uncertainty of 5 km, while that of the inner core is 1220±10 km.\n\nEstimates for the temperature of the outer core are about in its outer regions and near the inner core. Evidence for a fluid outer core includes from seismology which shows that seismic shear-waves are not transmitted through the outer core Because of its high temperature, modeling work has shown that the outer core is a low viscosity fluid that convects turbulently. Eddy currents in the nickel iron fluid of the outer core are believed to influence the Earth's magnetic field. The average magnetic field strength in the Earth's outer core was measured to be 2.5 millitesla, 50 times stronger than the magnetic field at the surface. The outer core is not under enough pressure to be solid, so it is liquid even though it has a composition similar to the inner core. Sulfur and oxygen could be present in the outer core.\n\nAs heat is transferred outward toward the mantle, the net trend is for the inner boundary of the liquid region to freeze, causing the solid inner core to grow. This growth rate is estimated to be 1 mm per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "305956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305956", "title": "Porphyritic", "text": "Porphyritic\n\nPorphyritic is an adjective used in geology, specifically for igneous rocks, for a rock that has a distinct difference in the size of the crystals, with at least one group of crystals obviously larger than another group. Porphyritic rocks may be aphanites or extrusive rock, with large crystals or phenocrysts floating in a fine-grained groundmass of non-visible crystals, as in a porphyritic basalt, or phanerites or intrusive rock, with individual crystals of the groundmass easily distinguished with the eye, but one group of crystals clearly much bigger than the rest, as in a porphyritic granite. Most types of igneous rocks may display some degree of porphyritic texture. One main type of rock that has a porphyritic texture are porphyry, though not all porphyritic rocks are porphyries.\n\nPorphyritic rocks are formed when a column of rising magma is cooled in two stages. In the first stage, the magma is cooled slowly deep in the crust, creating the large crystal grains, with a diameter of 2 mm or more. In the final stage, the magma is cooled rapidly at relatively shallow depth or as it erupts from a volcano, creating small grains that are usually invisible to the unaided eye typically referred to as the ground mass.\n"}
{"id": "3278857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3278857", "title": "Project Mohole", "text": "Project Mohole\n\nProject Mohole was an ambitious attempt in the early 1960s to drill through the Earth's crust into the Mohorovičić discontinuity, and to provide an Earth science complement to the high-profile Space Race. The project was initially led by the American Miscellaneous Society with funding from the National Science Foundation.\n\nPhase One was executed in spring 1961. Five holes were drilled off the coast of Guadalupe Island, Mexico, the deepest to below the sea floor in of water. This was unprecedented: not in the hole's depth but because of the depth of the ocean and because it was drilled from an untethered platform. Also, the core sample proved to be valuable, penetrating through Miocene-age sediments for the first time to reveal the lowest 13 m (44 ft) consisting of basalt.\n\nProject Mohole contracted with Global Marine of Los Angeles for the use of its oil drillship \"CUSS I\". A consortium of Continental, Union, Superior and Shell Oil Companies, CUSS had originally developed it in 1956 as a technological test bed for the nascent offshore oil industry. \"CUSS I\" was one of the first vessels in the world capable of drilling in water depth up to , while maintaining a position within a radius of . Project Mohole expanded its operational range by inventing what is now known as dynamic positioning. \n\nPhase One proved that both the technology and expertise were available to drill into the Earth's mantle. It was intended as the experimental phase of the project, and did succeed in drilling to a depth of 601 feet below the sea floor. However, deeper drilling never took place. An attempted shift of operational control to the National Science Foundation proved unsatisfactory, and in short order the American Miscellaneous Society dissolved itself, Phase Two of the project was abandoned and the entire project was discontinued by Congress, which objected to increasing costs in 1966.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32049154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32049154", "title": "Quadrangularis", "text": "Quadrangularis\n\nQuadrangularis means \"quadrangular\" (having four angles) in Latin. Quadrangularis is the species name in the binomial nomenclature of several species:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24865182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24865182", "title": "Ralph Cavanagh", "text": "Ralph Cavanagh\n\nRalph Cavanagh is a senior attorney and co-director of Natural Resources Defense Council's energy program. Cavanagh has been with the NRDC since 1979 and was on the Secretary of Energy Advisory board from 1993-2003. Cavanagh has served as Visiting Professor at both Stanford University and UC Berkeley.\n\nCavanagh has won multiple awards, including the 3rd Annual Heinz Award for Public Policy in 1997, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners’ Mary Kilmarx Award, the Yale Law School’s Preiskel-Silverman Fellowship, the NW Energy Coalition’s Headwaters Award, and the Bonneville Power Administration’s Award for Exceptional Public Service.\n\nCavanagh graduated from Yale College, where he was a member of the Yale debate team, and the Yale Law School. He is married to Deborah Rhode, MacFarland Professor of Law at Stanford Law School.\n\n"}
{"id": "31337311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31337311", "title": "Ramsar Wetland Conservation Award", "text": "Ramsar Wetland Conservation Award\n\nThe Ramsar Wetland Conservation Award honours the work of governments, organisations and individuals in promoting the wise use and conservation of wetlands.\n\nThe Ramsar Wetland Conservation Award was established in 1996 at the 6th Meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Ramsar Convention. The Award has been given six times so far on the occasion of Meetings of the Conference of the Contracting Parties (1999, 2002, 2005, 2008, 2012, and 2015). All awardees have also received the Evian Special Prize of US$10,000, donated by the Danone Group.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53592102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53592102", "title": "Ravens in Winter", "text": "Ravens in Winter\n\nRavens in Winter is a 1989 book by Bernd Heinrich. It is a study of the behaviour of ravens in the forests of Maine.\n\nA review of \"Ravens in Winter\" by \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote \"The story related here, which is constructed from his [Heinrich's] field notes, moves slowly; we learn a good deal about scientific methods and a lot about patience. Overall, however, the book is suspenseful and exciting.\" A \"New Scientist\" review summarised the book concluding \"It also contains Heinrich's own - and excellent - drawings of the various raven postures, a comprehensive review of the literature, beginning with the Bible, and even a section of the ravens of the Tower of London.\"\n\nPsychologists acknowledge that \"Heinrich's helpful ravens [as discussed in \"Ravens in Winter\"] are now a classic example of animal altruism\"\n\nIt was a Evergreen Audubon & Nature Center Book of the Month.\n\n\"Ravens in Winter\" has also been reviewed by \"AudioFile\", \"Scientific American\", \"The Condor\", \"The Sewanee Review\", and \"Library Journal\".\n"}
{"id": "24512738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24512738", "title": "Russie.NEI.Visions in English", "text": "Russie.NEI.Visions in English\n\nRussie.NEI.Visions (RNV )is an online collection of policy papers each in French, English and Russian produced by the Russia/New Independent States Centre of the French Institute of International Relations (Institut français des relations internationales, Ifri), a think tank. The collection promotes the publication of policy oriented analyses of events in the post-Soviet space, authored by established experts and up-and-coming analysts.\n\nCreated in 2005 by Thomas Gomart, today the collection is directed by Tatiana Kastueva-Jean with Julien Nocetti (editor). Since its creation, a paper collecting the year's production has been published annually.\n\nThe collection offers regular analysis of events in the former Soviet states, peer-reviewed and translated into all three languages. The collection has been cited in academic works as well as in the media.\n\n\n\"Russia, NATO and the EU: A European Security Triangle or Shades of a New Entente ?\", Andrew Monaghan\n\n\"The EU and Russia: the Needed Balance Between Geopolitics and Regionalism\", Thomas Gomart\n\n\"Representing Private Interests to Increase Trust in Russia-EU Relations\", Timofei Bordachev\n\n\"Multiplying Sources as the Best Strategy for EU-Russia Energy Relations\", Michael Thumann\n\n\nLaunched in September 2009, Russie.Nei.Reports is an electronic collection providing extensive analysis based on fieldwork. Papers are published either in French or in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "899880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=899880", "title": "Sea surface temperature", "text": "Sea surface temperature\n\nSea surface temperature (SST) is the water temperature close to the ocean's surface. The exact meaning of \"surface\" varies according to the measurement method used, but it is between and below the sea surface. Air masses in the Earth's atmosphere are highly modified by sea surface temperatures within a short distance of the shore. Localized areas of heavy snow can form in bands downwind of warm water bodies within an otherwise cold air mass. Warm sea surface temperatures are known to be a cause of tropical cyclogenesis over the Earth's oceans. Tropical cyclones can also cause a cool wake, due to turbulent mixing of the upper of the ocean. SST changes diurnally, like the air above it, but to a lesser degree. There is less SST variation on breezy days than on calm days. In addition, ocean currents such as the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation (AMO), can effect SST's on multi-decadal time scales, a major impact results from the global thermohaline circulation, which affects average SST significantly throughout most of the world's oceans.\n\nOcean temperature is related to ocean heat content, an important topic in the debate over global warming. \n\nCoastal SSTs can cause offshore winds to generate upwelling, which can significantly cool or warm nearby landmasses, but shallower waters over a continental shelf are often warmer. Onshore winds can cause a considerable warm-up even in areas where upwelling is fairly constant, such as the northwest coast of South America. Its values are important within numerical weather prediction as the SST influences the atmosphere above, such as in the formation of sea breezes and sea fog. It is also used to calibrate measurements from weather satellites.\n\nThere are a variety of techniques for measuring this parameter that can potentially yield different results because different things are actually being measured. Away from the immediate sea surface, general temperature measurements are accompanied by a reference to the specific depth of measurement. This is because of significant differences encountered between measurements made at different depths, especially during the daytime when low wind speed and high sunshine conditions may lead to the formation of a warm layer at the ocean's surface and strong vertical temperature gradients (a diurnal thermocline). Sea surface temperature measurements are confined to the top portion of the ocean, known as the near-surface layer.\n\nSST was one of the first oceanographic variables to be measured. Benjamin Franklin suspended a mercury thermometer from a ship while travelling between the United States and Europe in his survey of the Gulf stream in the late eighteenth century. SST was later measured by dipping a thermometer into a bucket of water that was manually drawn from the sea surface. The first automated technique for determining SST was accomplished by measuring the temperature of water in the intake port of large ships, which was underway by 1963. These observations have a warm bias of around due to the heat of the engine room. This bias has led to changes in the perception of global warming since 2000. Fixed weather buoys measure the water temperature at a depth of . Measurements of SST have had inconsistencies over the last 130 years due to the way they were taken. In the nineteenth century, measurements were taken in a bucket off of a ship. However, there was a slight variation in temperature because of the differences in buckets. Samples were collected in either a wood or an uninsulated canvas bucket, but the canvas bucket cooled quicker than the wood bucket. The sudden change in temperature between 1940 and 1941 was the result of an undocumented change in procedure. The samples were taken near the engine intake because it was too dangerous to use lights to take measurements over the side of the ship at night. Many different drifting buoys exist around the world that vary in design, and the location of reliable temperature sensors varies. These measurements are beamed to satellites for automated and immediate data distribution. A large network of coastal buoys in U.S. waters is maintained by the National Data Buoy Center (NDBC). Between 1985 and 1994, an extensive array of moored and drifting buoys was deployed across the equatorial Pacific Ocean designed to help monitor and predict the El Niño phenomenon.\n\nWeather satellites have been available to determine sea surface temperature information since 1967, with the first global composites created during 1970. Since 1982, satellites have been increasingly utilized to measure SST and have allowed its spatial and temporal variation to be viewed more fully. Satellite measurements of SST are in reasonable agreement with in situ temperature measurements. The satellite measurement is made by sensing the ocean radiation in two or more wavelengths within the infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum or other parts of the spectrum which can then be empirically related to SST. These wavelengths are chosen because they are:\n\n\nThe satellite-measured SST provides both a synoptic view of the ocean and a high frequency of repeat views, allowing the examination of basin-wide upper ocean dynamics not possible with ships or buoys. NASA's (National Aeronautic and Space Administration) Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) SST satellites have been providing global SST data since 2000, available with a one-day lag. NOAA's GOES (Geostationary Orbiting Earth Satellites) satellites are geo-stationary above the Western Hemisphere which enables to them to deliver SST data on an hourly basis with only a few hours of lag time.\n\nThere are several difficulties with satellite-based absolute SST measurements. First, in infrared remote sensing methodology the radiation emanates from the top \"skin\" of the ocean, approximately the top 0.01 mm or less, which may not represent the bulk temperature of the upper meter of ocean due primarily to effects of solar surface heating during the daytime, reflected radiation, as well as sensible heat loss and surface evaporation. All these factors make it somewhat difficult to compare satellite data to measurements from buoys or shipboard methods, complicating ground truth efforts. Secondly, the satellite cannot look through clouds, creating a cool bias in satellite-derived SSTs within cloudy areas. However, passive microwave techniques can accurately measure SST and penetrate cloud cover. Within atmospheric sounder channels on weather satellites, which peak just above the ocean's surface, knowledge of the sea surface temperature is important to their calibration.\n\nThe SST has a diurnal range, just like the Earth's atmosphere above, though to a lesser degree due to its greater specific heat. On calm days, the temperature can vary by . The temperature of the ocean at depth lags the Earth's atmosphere temperature by 15 days per , which means for locations like the Aral Sea, temperatures near its bottom reach a maximum in December and a minimum in May and June. Near the coastline, offshore winds move the warm waters near the surface offshore, and replace them with cooler water from below in the process known as Ekman transport. This pattern increases nutrients for marine life in the region. Offshore river deltas, freshwater flows over the top of the denser seawater, which allows it to heat faster due to limited vertical mixing. Remotely sensed SST can be used to detect the surface temperature signature due to tropical cyclones. In general, an SST cooling is observed after the passing of a hurricane primarily as the result of mixed layer deepening and surface heat losses. In the wake of several day long Saharan dust outbreaks across the adjacent northern Atlantic Ocean, sea surface temperatures are reduced 0.2 C to 0.4 C (0.3 to 0.7 F). Other sources of short-term SST fluctuation include extratropical cyclones, rapid influxes of glacial fresh water and concentrated phytoplankton blooms due to seasonal cycles or agricultural run-off.\n\nThe Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation (AMO) is important for how external forcings are linked with North Atlantic SSTs.\n\nEl Niño is defined by prolonged differences in Pacific Ocean surface temperatures when compared with the average value. The accepted definition is a warming or cooling of at least 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) averaged over the east-central tropical Pacific Ocean. Typically, this anomaly happens at irregular intervals of 2–7 years and lasts nine months to two years. The average period length is 5 years. When this warming or cooling occurs for only seven to nine months, it is classified as El Niño/La Niña \"conditions\"; when it occurs for more than that period, it is classified as El Niño/La Niña \"episodes\".\n\nThe sign of an El Niño in the sea surface temperature pattern is when warm water spreads from the west Pacific and the Indian Ocean to the east Pacific. It takes the rain with it, causing extensive drought in the western Pacific and rainfall in the normally dry eastern Pacific. El Niño's warm rush of nutrient-poor tropical water, heated by its eastward passage in the Equatorial Current, replaces the cold, nutrient-rich surface water of the Humboldt Current. When El Niño conditions last for many months, extensive ocean warming and the reduction in Easterly Trade winds limits upwelling of cold nutrient-rich deep water and its economic impact to local fishing for an international market can be serious.\n\nSea surface temperature affects the behavior of the Earth's atmosphere above, so their initialization into atmospheric models is important. While sea surface temperature is important for tropical cyclogenesis, it is also important in determining the formation of sea fog and sea breezes. Heat from underlying warmer waters can significantly modify an air mass over distances as short as to . For example, southwest of Northern Hemisphere extratropical cyclones, curved cyclonic flow bringing cold air across relatively warm water bodies can lead to narrow lake-effect snow (or sea effect) bands. Those bands bring strong localized precipitation, often in the form of snow, since large water bodies such as lakes efficiently store heat that results in significant temperature differences—larger than —between the water surface and the air above. Because of this temperature difference, warmth and moisture are transported upward, condensing into vertically oriented clouds which produce snow showers. The temperature decrease with height and cloud depth are directly affected by both the water temperature and the large-scale environment. The stronger the temperature decrease with height, the taller the clouds get, and the greater the precipitation rate becomes.\n\nOcean temperature of at least 26.5°C (79.7°F) spanning through at minimum a 50-metre depth is one of the precursors needed to maintain a tropical cyclone (a type of mesocyclone). These warm waters are needed to maintain the warm core that fuels tropical systems. This value is well above 16.1 °C (60.9 °F), the long term global average surface temperature of the oceans. However, this requirement can be considered only a general baseline because it assumes that the ambient atmospheric environment surrounding an area of disturbed weather presents average conditions. Tropical cyclones have intensified when SSTs were slightly below this standard temperature.\n\nTropical cyclones are known to form even when normal conditions are not met. For example, cooler air temperatures at a higher altitude (e.g., at the 500 hPa level, or 5.9 km) can lead to tropical cyclogenesis at lower water temperatures, as a certain lapse rate is required to force the atmosphere to be unstable enough for convection. In a moist atmosphere, this lapse rate is 6.5 °C/km, while in an atmosphere with less than 100% relative humidity, the required lapse rate is 9.8 °C/km.\n\nAt the 500 hPa level, the air temperature averages −7 °C (18 °F) within the tropics, but air in the tropics is normally dry at this height, giving the air room to wet-bulb, or cool as it moistens, to a more favorable temperature that can then support convection. A wetbulb temperature at 500 hPa in a tropical atmosphere of is required to initiate convection if the water temperature is , and this temperature requirement increases or decreases proportionally by 1 °C in the sea surface temperature for each 1 °C change at 500 hpa.\nInside a cold cyclone, 500 hPa temperatures can fall as low as , which can initiate convection even in the driest atmospheres. This also explains why moisture in the mid-levels of the troposphere, roughly at the 500 hPa level, is normally a requirement for development. However, when dry air is found at the same height, temperatures at 500 hPa need to be even colder as dry atmospheres require a greater lapse rate for instability than moist atmospheres. At heights near the tropopause, the 30-year average temperature (as measured in the period encompassing 1961 through 1990) was −77 °C (−132 °F). A recent example of a tropical cyclone that maintained itself over cooler waters was Epsilon of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44426150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426150", "title": "Spatial association", "text": "Spatial association\n\nSpatial association is the degree to which things are similarly arranged in space. Analysis of the distribution patterns of two phenomena is done by map overlay. If the distributions are similar, then the spatial association is strong, and vice versa. In a Geographic Information System, the analysis can be done quantitatively. For example, a set of observations (as points or extracted from raster cells) at matching locations can be intersected and examined by regression analysis.\n\nLike spatial autocorrelation, this can be a useful tool for spatial prediction. In spatial modeling, the concept of spatial association allows the use of covariates in a regression equation to predict the geographic field and thus produce a map.\n"}
{"id": "22470618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22470618", "title": "The Liberation of Earth", "text": "The Liberation of Earth\n\n\"The Liberation of Earth\" is a science fiction short story by American author William Tenn, written in 1950, first published in 1953, and reprinted several times in various anthologies, including 1955 collection \"Of all Possible Worlds\" and 1967 anthology \"The Starlit Corridor\". The story, which Tenn described as having been inspired by the Korean War, portrays Earth as the battleground between two powerful alien races, the Troxxt and the Dendi, who repeatedly \"liberate\" it from each other.\n\nAt the time the story begins, the Troxxt and the Dendi have long since abandoned the (literally) shattered remnants of Earth as being too dangerous for civilized people; humanity is nearly extinct, with the few survivors having descended into starving savagery as they struggle for air.\n\nThe story is told from the point of view of the future descendants of the humans that were nearly annihilated by throughout the course of these constant \"liberations\". Each alien race convinces the inhabitants of Earth to assist them in their war against the other race, always making sure to paint themselves as the force of good and the opposing race as the evil aggressors. When the Earth is then \"reliberated\" by the other alien race, the inhabitants of Earth are reproached for having believed the lies told by their previous occupiers. This cycle of liberation and re-liberation continues until the Earth is left a shell of its former self. During the course of the occupation, most of the human race has been killed, its ecosystem has been destroyed, and the planet’s unstable orbit threatens to fling them all into space. The future inhabitants of Earth barely resemble their human ancestors, leading desperate lives on a ravaged planet, and ran from \"water puddle to distant water puddle, across the searing heat of yellow sand\", \"sucked air\", and \"frantically grabbed at clusters of thick green weed\".\n\nNick Gevers has described \"The Liberation of Earth\" as \"great\", and \"Locus\" columnist Rich Horton described it as \"one of 1953's best shorts\". It was included in the anthology \"Isaac Asimov Presents The Great SF Stories 15\" as one of the best science fiction short stories of 1953. It was also reprinted in the 2016 anthology \"The Big Book of Science Fiction\". Editors Ann and Jeff VanderMeer state that it is \"considered one of the classic science fiction stories of all time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4890752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4890752", "title": "The River (Paulsen novel)", "text": "The River (Paulsen novel)\n\nThe River, also known as The Return and Hatchet: The Return, is a 1991 young adult novel by Gary Paulsen. It is the second installment in the \"Hatchet\" series, but chronologically the third with \"Brian's Winter\" serving as an alternative second book.\n\nBrian Robeson, a 15-year-old boy who spent 54 days surviving alone in the Canadian wilderness the previous summer, is hired by the government to again live in the woods with only two knives and surviving only by his wits, so the military can learn his survival techniques. Though reluctant at first, Brian eventually agrees. This time, Brian sets out for a remote Canadian location accompanied by Derek Holtzer, a government psychologist.\n\nThough the government stipulated the duo take emergency supplies, Brian insists they abandon everything but a knife and an emergency radio, saying that it would be impossible to eat bugs and sleep in the rain if a tent and prepared food is within reach. During their stay, things take a grim turn when their camp is struck by lightning, which knocks Derek into a coma and destroys the radio. Knowing that Derek will die of dehydration long before anyone finds them, Brian builds a raft in a desperate bid to navigate down the unknown river to the nearest inhabited point known as Brannock's Trading Post for emergency aid. The biggest problem is the trading post is 100 miles down river. Despite rapids, the craft's unwieldiness, exhaustion, and a lack of geographical knowledge, they finally reach the trading post and Derek survives. After the two get back home, Derek buys Brian a canoe named \"The Raft\" as a thank you present.\n\n</div>\n"}
{"id": "53784413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53784413", "title": "Tugarinovite", "text": "Tugarinovite\n\nTugarinovite is a rare molybdenum oxide mineral with formula MoO.\nIt occurs as a primary mineral phase associated with metasomatism in a sulfur deficient reducing environment. In the type locality it occurs with uraninite, molybdenite, galena, zircon and wulfenite.\n\nTugarinovite was first described for an occurrence in the Lenskoye molybdenum–uranium deposit in the Amurskaya Oblast, Far-Eastern Region, Russia. It was named for geochemist Ivan Alekseevich Tugarinov of the Vernadskii Institute in Moscow.\nIn addition to its type locality in Russia it has been reported from the Allende meteorite in Chihuahua, Mexico, the Nansei Archipelago of Japan and Bohemia in the Czech Republic.\n"}
{"id": "24849311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24849311", "title": "Zapis", "text": "Zapis\n\nA zapis (, , literally \"inscription\"; plural: zapisi (записи)) is a tree in Serbia that is sacred for the village within whose bounds it is situated. A cross is inscribed into the bark of each \"zapis\". Most of these trees are large oaks. Prayers are offered to God under the crown of the \"zapis\", where church services may also be held, especially during village festivals observed to supplicate God for protection against destructive weather conditions. In settlements without a church, ceremonies such as weddings and baptisms were once conducted under the tree. Folk tradition maintains that great misfortune will befall anyone that dares fell a \"zapis\". According to Serbian scholar Veselin Čajkanović, the \"zapis\" is inherited from the pre-Christian religion of the Serbs, in which it had been used as a temple.\n\nThe selected tree becomes a \"zapis\" through the rite of consecration performed by a Serbian Orthodox priest, in which a cross is inscribed into its bark. The \"zapis\" is chosen from large trees, primarily oaks, but also elms, ashes, beeches, pear trees, and hazels. A large cross, often made of stone, may be erected beside the zapis, and the surrounding area may be fenced. The \"zapis\" is inviolable: it is believed that great misfortune will befall anyone that dares fell it. Climbing it, sleeping under it, and picking its fruits and twigs, are also forbidden. Even the branches and fruits that fall from the tree should not be collected. A village may have more than one \"zapis\": the main one in the settlement or near it, and several others in the village's fields, usually chosen so that they surround the settlement.\n\nThe \"zapis\" plays an important role in rites connected with the festival known as \"krstonoše\", meaning \"crossbearers\", which is publicly celebrated within the village to supplicate God for protection against destructive weather conditions, as well as to ensure a good harvest. Not all villages celebrate \"krstonoše\" on the same day, but it usually falls between Easter and the eve of St. Peter's Fast. Some villages have abandoned this festival. \"Krstonoše\" commences with villagers gathering at the church and forming a procession headed by a cross, an icon, and church banners. The procession walks a closed line around the settlement, encircling as much of the village's territory as possible, and then returns to the church. The girls and boys in the procession sing:\n\nOn its way, the procession stops by each \"zapis\" and at some crossroads, where the priest chants prayers. The cross inscribed in the \"zapis\"'s bark is renewed, and the tree is censed. In eastern Serbia, a small hole is bored into the trunk and filled with cooking oil and incense. The service on this festival is held under the crown of the main \"zapis\", or in the church after the procession returns. During the service, the priest and the man elected for the host of the \"krstonoše\" hold together a round loaf of bread, rotate it three times counterclockwise, and break it into two halves. One half is given to the priest and the other to the man who will host the following year's \"krstonoše\". A feast for the participants in the procession may be prepared under the main \"zapis\" and they may also dance the \"kolo\" there. A sheеp used to be sacrificed under the tree so that its blood spilled on the trunk and roots.\n\nSome villages and hamlets in Serbia also observe a festival commemorating a disaster that has befallen the settlement, such as a flood, fire, or lightning strike. The festival is called the \"zavetina\", the name being derived from the noun \"zavet\", meaning vow. The service on the \"zavetina\" may be held in the shelter of the \"zapis\". In settlements without a church, ceremonies such as weddings and baptisms were conducted under the crown of the \"zapis\". People with health problems used to leave their clothes on the tree by night, believing this would help restore their health. In the regions of Pek and Zvižd, in eastern Serbia, a fire used to be built under the tree on the eve of Lent. In Gruža, money was lent under the \"zapis\".\n\nIn his study on the cult of trees among ancient Serbs, ethnologist Veselin Čajkanović states that the \"zapis\" is inherited from the Serbs' pre-Christian religion, in which it had been used as a temple. Prayers and sacrifices were offered under the crown of the \"zapis\", as in a temple. A \"zapis\" is primarily selected from oaks, the trees associated with Perun—the thunder god of the ancient Slavic religion. A Serbian legend relates the story of a king who always prayed to God under a pear tree rather than in a church, saying, \"the pear tree is my church.\" His prayers were so effective that he eventually became a saint.\n\nA reverence towards trees, similar to that extended upon the \"zapis\", has also been recorded in Macedonia. During Easter, in the region of Gevgelija, the Eucharist was once given to selected pear trees. Each was surrounded with icons, after which a priest read from a Gospel facing the tree, sprinkled it with holy water, and then put the consecrated bread under its bark. In other areas, there was a custom of placing a cross, a fireplace, and a table made of stone by a tree on a hillock near a river or lake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34104270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34104270", "title": "Ṭūbā", "text": "Ṭūbā\n\nṬūbā () is a term often associated with a tree that some Muslims believe grows in \"Al-Jannah\" (, the Islamic Heaven).\n\nThe term is only mentioned once in the Koran in the context of blessedness and it is not mentioned as a Tree by name. The only other source that relates the arguably same term to a tree is a hadith. The term has caught the imagination of writers over the years. For example, Sohrevardi developed a story surrounding the old Persian mythology and suggests that it is indeed a Tree in the heaven where the mythical bird Simurgh lay eggs. Similarly, in 1449, Mehmed Yazıcıoğlu wrote of a similar tree in \"The Creation of Paradise\" in his manuscript called \"Muhammediye\":\nAccording to Islamic tradition, when the wife of the Prophet asked him the reason of kissing his daughter a lot. He replied that during Ascension, I ate the fruits of Tuba and when I returned I became intimate with my wife and Fatimah was born. So, whenever I kiss Fatimah I smell the fragrance of that tree of Paradise. \nThe holy city of Touba, Senegal, is named for the tree.\n\nThe Arabic female given name Tuba or Touba derives from the tree. Tuba (often spelt \"Tuğba\") is also a modern Arabic borrowing into Turkish and has become a common female name since the 1970s.\n"}
