{"id": "3033378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033378", "title": "737 Arequipa", "text": "737 Arequipa\n\n737 Arequipa is a minor planet orbiting the Sun. It was named after the Peruvian city of Arequipa, where Harvard's Boyden Observatory was located prior to 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3302467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302467", "title": "A32 road", "text": "A32 road\n\nThe A32 is a road in Hampshire, southern England, that links Gosport and Alton. Starting at Gosport, facing Portsmouth, it travels north via Fareham, Wickham, Droxford, before joining the A31 road near Alton. The road is long from the seafront at Gosport to the roundabout with the A31 near Alton, and has entirely non-primary status.\n\nDespite its non-primary status, the road forms the main access to the town of Gosport. At rush-hour times, the road is often extremely congested (northbound in the morning rush, southbound in the evenings) as commuters head through central Fareham from the Gosport peninsula to the M27. \n\nThe main pinch-point is the long section of road between the Newgate Lane Flyover (junction B3334) and the Quay Street Roundabout in central Fareham where traffic delays often cause northbound tailbacks of at peak times. During the evening rush, traffic can at times back up to the M27 at Junction 11 and along the slow lane (Lane One) of the motorway.\n\nThere have for many years been plans to provide a light rail solution to the traffic problem by utilising the former Gosport to Fareham railway line but this was scrapped in 2005. There are now tentative plans to use the railway line for guided bus services.\n\nThe A32 is a popular route for motorcyclists, particularly at weekends; the cafe ( now Loomies, formerly a \"Little Chef\") where the A272 crosses the A32 at West Meon has become central meeting place for many groups of riders. The historic site of Fort to the south is easily accessed from Wickham and is a popular route for motorcyclists.\n\n"}
{"id": "25437008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25437008", "title": "Arctic exploration", "text": "Arctic exploration\n\nArctic exploration is the physical exploration of the Arctic region of the Earth. It refers to the historical period during which mankind has explored the region north of the Arctic Circle. Historical records suggest that humankind have explored the northern extremes since 325 BC, when the ancient Greek sailor Pytheas reached a frozen sea while attempting to find a source of the metal tin. Dangerous oceans and poor weather conditions often fetter explorers attempting to reach polar regions and journeying through these perils by sight, boat, and foot has proven difficult.\n\nSome scholars believe that the first attempts to penetrate the Arctic Circle can be traced to ancient Greece and the sailor Pytheas, a contemporary of Aristotle and Alexander the Great, who, in c. 325 BC, attempted to find the source of the tin that would sporadically reach the Greek colony of Massilia (now Marseille) on the Mediterranean coast. Sailing past the Pillars of Hercules, he reached Brittany and then Cornwall, eventually circumnavigating the British Isles. From the local population, he heard news of the mysterious land of Thule, even farther to the north. After six days of sailing, he reached land at the edge of a frozen sea (described by him as \"curdled\"), and described what is believed to be the aurora and the midnight sun. Some historians claim that this new land of Thule was either the Norwegian coast or the Shetland Islands based on his descriptions and the trade routes of early British sailors. While no one knows exactly how far Pytheas sailed, he may have crossed the Arctic Circle. Nevertheless, his tales were regarded as fantasy by later Greek and Roman authorities, such as the geographer Strabo.\n\nThe first Viking to sight Iceland was Gardar Svavarsson, who lost his route due to harsh conditions when sailing from Norway to the Faroe Islands. This quickly led to a wave of colonization. Not all the settlers were successful however in the attempts to reach the island. In the 10th century, Gunnbjörn Ulfsson got lost in a storm and ended up within sight of the Greenland coast. His report spurred Erik the Red, an outlawed chieftain, to establish a settlement there in 985. While they flourished initially, these settlements eventually foundered due to changing climatic conditions (see Little Ice Age). They are believed to have survived until around 1450.\n\nGreenland's early settlers sailed westward, in search of better pasturage and hunting grounds. Modern scholars debate the precise location of the new lands of Vinland, Markland, and Helluland that they discovered.\n\nThe Scandinavian peoples also pushed farther north into their own peninsula by land and by sea. As early as 880, the Viking Ohthere of Hålogaland rounded the Scandinavian Peninsula and sailed to the Kola Peninsula and the White Sea. The Pechenga Monastery on the north of Kola Peninsula was founded by Russian monks in 1533; from their base at Kola, the Pomors explored the Barents Region, Spitsbergen, and Novaya Zemlya—all of which are in the Arctic Circle. They also explored north by boat, discovering the Northern Sea Route, as well as penetrating to the trans-Ural areas of northern Siberia. They then founded the settlement of Mangazeya east of the Yamal Peninsula in the early 16th century. In 1648 the Cossack Semyon Dezhnyov opened the now famous Bering Strait between America and Asia.\n\nRussian settlers and traders on the coasts of the White Sea, the Pomors, had been exploring parts of the northeast passage as early as the 11th century. By the 17th century they established a continuous sea route from Arkhangelsk as far east as the mouth of Yenisey. This route, known as \"Mangazeya seaway\", after its eastern terminus, the trade depot of Mangazeya, was an early precursor to the Northern Sea Route.\n\nExploration to the north of the Arctic Circle in the Renaissance was both driven by the rediscovery of the Classics and the national quests for commercial expansion, and hampered by limits in maritime technology, lack of stable food supplies, and insufficient insulation for the crew against extreme cold.\n\nA seminal event in Arctic exploration occurred in 1409, when Ptolemy's \"Geographia\" was translated into Latin, thereby introducing the concepts of latitude and longitude into Western Europe. Navigators were better able to chart their positions, and the European race to China, sparked by interest in the writings of Marco Polo, commenced. The \"Inventio Fortunata\", a lost book, describes in a summary written by Jacobus Cnoyen but only found in a letter from Gerardus Mercator, voyages as far as the North Pole. One widely disputed claim is that two brothers from Venice, Niccolo and Antonio Zeno, allegedly made a map of their journeys to that region, which were published by their descendants in 1558.\n\nThe \"Northwest Passage\" connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans via the Arctic Ocean. Since the discovery of the American continent was the product of the search for a route to Asia, exploration around the northern edge of North America continued for the Northwest Passage. John Cabot's initial failure in 1497 to find a Northwest Passage across the Atlantic led the British to seek an alternative route to the east.\n\nInterest re-kindled in 1564 after Jacques Cartier's discovery of the mouth of the Saint Lawrence River. Martin Frobisher had formed a resolution to undertake the challenge of forging a trade route from England westward to India. In 1576 - 1578, he took three trips to what is now the Canadian Arctic in order to find the passage. Frobisher Bay, which he discovered, is named after him. In July 1583, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, who had written a treatise on the discovery of the passage and was a backer of Frobisher's, claimed the territory of Newfoundland for the English crown. On August 8, 1585, under the employ of Elizabeth I the English explorer John Davis entered Cumberland Sound, Baffin Island. Davis rounded Greenland before dividing his four ships into separate expeditions to search for a passage westward. Though he was unable to pass through the icy Arctic waters, he reported to his sponsors that the passage they sought is \"a matter nothing doubtfull ,\" and secured support for two additional expeditions, reaching as far as Hudson Bay. Though England's efforts were interrupted in 1587 because of Anglo-Spanish War, Davis's favorable reports on the region and its people would inspire explorers in the coming century. In 1609, while in the service of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and Dutch Republic, the English explorer Henry Hudson sailed up what is now called the Hudson River in search of the Passage; he reached present-day Albany, New York, before giving up. He later explored further north into the Arctic and Hudson Bay for the Passage.\n\nThe Northeast Passage is a broad term for any route lying above the Eurasian continent and stretching between the waters north of the Norwegian Sea to the Bering Strait. The \"Northern Sea Route\" is defined as a specific portion of such routes. The \"Northern Sea Route\" (capitalized) as currently officially defined by Russian Federation law includes shipping lanes falling within Russia's EEZ and extending from the Kara Sea to the Bering Strait along the Russian northern coast.\n\nThe idea to explore this region was initially economic, and was first put forward by Russian diplomat Dmitry Gerasimov in 1525. The entire route lies in Arctic waters and parts are only totally free of ice for about two months per year, making it a very perilous journey.\n\nIn the mid-16th century, John Cabot's son Sebastian helped organize just such an expedition, led by Sir Hugh Willoughby and Richard Chancellor. Willoughby's crew was shipwrecked off the Kola Peninsula, where they eventually died of scurvy. Chancellor and his crew made it to the mouth of the Dvina River and the town of Arkhangelsk, where they were met by a delegation from the Tsar, Ivan the Terrible. Brought back to Moscow, he launched the Muscovy Company, promoting trade between England and Russia. This diplomatic course allowed British Ambassadors such as Sir Francis Cherry the opportunity to consolidate geographic information developed by Russian merchants into maps for British exploration of the region. Some years later, Steven Borough, the master of Chancellor's ship, made it as far as the Kara Sea, when he was forced to turn back because of icy conditions.\n\nWestern parts of the passage were simultaneously being explored by Northern European countries like England, the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway, looking for an alternative seaway to China and India. Although these expeditions failed, new coasts and islands were discovered. Most notable is the 1596 expedition led by Dutch navigator Willem Barentsz who discovered Spitsbergen and Bear Island.\n\nFearing English and Dutch penetration into Siberia, Russia closed the Mangazeya seaway in 1619. Pomor activity in Northern Asia declined and the bulk of exploration in the 17th century was carried out by Siberian Cossacks, sailing from one river mouth to another in their Arctic-worthy \"kochs\". In 1648 the most famous of these expeditions, led by Fedot Alekseev and Semyon Dezhnev, sailed east from the mouth of Kolyma to the Pacific and doubled the Chukchi Peninsula, thus proving that there was no land connection between Asia and North America. Eighty years after Dezhnev, in 1728, another Russian explorer, Danish-born Vitus Bering on \"Sviatoy Gavriil\" made a similar voyage in reverse, starting in Kamchatka and going north to the passage that now bears his name (Bering Strait). It was Bering who gave their current names to Diomede Islands, discovered and first described by Dezhnev.\n\nIt was not until in 1878 that Finnish-Swedish explorer Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld made the first complete passage of the North East Passage from west to east, in the Vega expedition. The ship's captain on this expedition was Lieutenant Louis Palander of the Swedish Royal Navy.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, parts of the Northwest Passage were explored separately by a number of different expeditions, including those by John Ross, William Edward Parry, James Clark Ross; and overland expeditions led by John Franklin, George Back, Peter Warren Dease, Thomas Simpson, and John Rae. Sir Robert McClure was credited with the discovery of the Northwest Passage by sea in 1851 when he looked across M'Clure Strait from Banks Island and viewed Melville Island. However, the strait was blocked by young ice at this point in the season, and not navigable to ships. The only usable route, linking the entrances of Lancaster Sound and Dolphin and Union Strait was first used by John Rae in 1851. Rae used a pragmatic approach of traveling by land on foot and dog sled, and typically employed less than ten people in his exploration parties.\n\nThe Northwest Passage was not completely conquered by sea until 1906, when the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen, who had sailed just in time to escape creditors seeking to stop the expedition, completed a three-year voyage in the converted 47-ton herring boat \"Gjøa\". At the end of this trip, he walked into the city of Eagle, Alaska, and sent a telegram announcing his success. His route was not commercially practical; in addition to the time taken, some of the waterways were extremely shallow.\n\nKnud Rasmussen (1879 - 1933) led several Arctic expeditions. He grew up in Greenland speaking Greenlandic and Danish, and has been called the \"father of Eskimology\" and was the first Greenlander of Inuit and European descent to cross the Northwest Passage via dog sled. Rasmussen and his friend Peter Freuchen participated in seven Thule Expeditions, named after Ultima Thule, and wrote numerous books on their Arctic experiences.\n\n On April 6, 1909, Robert Peary claimed to be the first person in recorded history to reach the North Pole (although whether he actually reached the Pole is disputed). He traveled with the aid of dogsleds and three separate support crews who turned back at successive intervals before reaching the Pole. Many modern explorers, including Olympic skiers using modern equipment, contend that Peary could not have reached the pole on foot in the time he claimed.\n\nA number of previous expeditions set out with the intention of reaching the North Pole but did not succeed; that of British naval officer William Edward Parry in 1827, the tragic American Polaris expedition under Charles Francis Hall in 1871, the ill-fated Jeannette Expedition commanded by US Navy Lt Cmdr George W. DeLong in 1879, and the Norwegian Fram Expedition of Fridtjof Nansen in 1895. American Frederick Cook claimed to have reached the North Pole in 1908, but this has not been widely accepted.\n\nOn May 9, 1926, Americans Richard E. Byrd and Floyd Bennett claimed to have flown over the North Pole in a Fokker F.VIIa/3m Tri-motor monoplane. However, their claim to have reached the Pole is disputed.\n\nThe crew of the airship \"Norge\" (including Roald Amundsen and the American sponsor Lincoln Ellsworth) flew over the Pole on May 12, 1926. This is the first undisputed sighting of the Pole. \"Norge\" was designed and piloted by the Italian Umberto Nobile, who overflew the Pole a second time on May 24, 1928. Nobile’s second trip was in the airship \"Italia\" that ran into a storm on the return trip and crashed on the ice. Survivors were eventually recovered. Amundsen disappeared, with the crew of his sea plane, during the rescue operations.\n\nThe first people to have without doubt walked on the North Pole were the Soviet party of 1948 under the command of Alexander Kuznetsov, who landed their aircraft nearby and walked to the pole.\n\nOn August 3, 1958, the American submarine reached the North Pole without surfacing. It then proceeded to travel under the entire Polar ice cap. On March 17, 1959 the surfaced on the North Pole and dispersed the ashes of explorer Sir Hubert Wilkins. These journeys were part of military explorations stimulated by the Cold War context.\n\nOn April 19, 1968, Ralph Plaisted reached the North Pole via snowmobile, the first surface traveler known with certainty to have done so. His position was verified independently by a US Air Force meteorological overflight. In 1969 Wally Herbert, on foot and by dog sled, became the first man to reach the North Pole on muscle power alone, on the 60th anniversary of Robert Peary's famous but disputed expedition.\n\nThe first persons to reach the North Pole on foot (or skis) and return with no outside help, no dogs, air planes, or re-supplies were Richard Weber (Canada) and Misha Malakhov (Russia) in 1995. No one has completed this journey since.\n\nU.S. Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Joseph O. Fletcher and Lieutenant William Pershing Benedict landed a plane at the Pole on May 3, 1952, accompanied by the scientist Albert P. Crary.\n\nOn 2 May 2007, got to the 1996 position of the magnetic north pole () in modified Toyota Hilux.\n\nOn 2 August 2007, during Arktika 2007 Russian manned submersibles were the first to descend to the sea-bed below the pole.\n\nOn April 26, 2009, Vassily Elagin, Afanassi Makovnev, Vladimir Obikhod, Sergey Larin, Alexey Ushakov, Alexey Shkrabkin and Nikolay Nikulshin after 38 days and over (starting from Sredniy Island, Severnaya Zemlya) drove two Russian built cars \"Yemelya-1\" and \"Yemelya-2\" to the North Pole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24114848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24114848", "title": "Attrition test", "text": "Attrition test\n\nAn attrition test is a test carried out to measure the resistance of a granular material to wear. An example of a material subjected to an attrition test are stones used in road construction, indicating the resistance of the material to being broken down under road traffic. Heterogeneous catalysts are also subjected to attrition tests to determine their physical performance in a nuclear reactor.\n\nThe test itself involves agitating the particles, typically by tumbling within a drum, vibration, or with jets of gas to simulate a fluidised bed. After a specified time, the material is sieved and the sieved material weighed to measure the proportion of material which has been reduced to below a certain size (referred to as 'fines'). The specifics of the test are defined by various standards as applicable to the purpose in question, such as those defined by ASTM.\n"}
{"id": "14669196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14669196", "title": "Barren vegetation", "text": "Barren vegetation\n\nBarren vegetation describes an area of land where plant growth may be sparse, stunted, and/or contain limited biodiversity. Environmental conditions such as toxic or infertile soil, high winds, coastal salt-spray and climatic conditions are often key factors in poor plant growth and development. Barren vegetation can be categorized depending on the climate, geology and the geographic location of a specific area.\nPine barrens, coastal barrens and serpentine barrens are some of the more distinct ecoregions for barren vegetation and are the most commonly researched by scientists. Often referred to as \"heathlands\", barrens can be excellent environments for unique biological diversity and taxonomic compositions.\n\nSerpentine barren habitats include grasslands, chaparral, and woodlands as well as some areas that are very sparsely vegetated. Areas of sparse vegetation are often characterized by annual and perennial herbaceous plant species. The flora of the serpentines is recognized globally for its high level of biological diversity which includes over 1600 taxa of plants occurring in serpentine areas of the eastern U.S., with as many as 2000 taxa considered to be endemic to serpentine rich soils.\n\nSerpentine barrens are distinct due to the serpentine-rich soil produced by the hydration weathering and metamorphic transformation of ultramafic igneous bedrock. Serpentine barrens are often characterized as high-stress environments with low water and nutrient availability. These areas are often depleted in basic nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus. The soil is often shallow and can be toxic due to high heavy metal concentrations such as nickel, cobalt and chromium. As a result of the harsh conditions and unique edaphic properties presented by serpentine barrens these environments support stress-tolerant plant communities characterized by distinct and locally defined plant species.\n\nThe ecoregion known as the Pine Barrens are found to spread across much of the northeastern United States, primarily in the state of New Jersey. The Pine Barrens comprise 550,000 hectares of a heavily forested area of coastal plain and are home to at least 850 species of plant life, including many which are endangered or threatened.\n\nThe Pine Barrens are primarily formed on unconsolidated, acidic, medium-to-coarse grained sands and gravel. The mature soils are considered to be true Podzols and are siliceous and highly permeable. The low moisture holding capacity and nutrient status of the soil create low vegetation growth rates throughout much of the Pine Barrens.\nCoastal Barrens are characterized by short vegetation, sparse tree cover, exposed bedrock, and bog pockets. Often, coastal barrens exhibit stressful climatic conditions and are subjected to consistent windy conditions and salt-spray. \nAlong the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia and northeastern United States, there are patches of unforested coastal barrens spread throughout areas that contain exposed bedrock and/or little soil cover within a forested landscape. More extensive barrens can be found in much of Newfoundland and Labrador and further north in mainland Canada.\n\nCoastal Barrens typically host low growing shrub communities with sparse tree cover and are often dominated by ericaceous species such as the black huckleberry (Gaylussacia baccata) and low bush blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium). The coastal barrens of Atlantic Canada host a variety of taxonomic species such as macro lichens, mosses, and vascular plants. Studies have recorded 173 different species in various coastal barren regions of the province of Nova Scotia. This number included 105 vascular plants, 41 macro lichens, and 27 moss species with six provincially rare vascular species that were found predominantly in nearshore areas that contained high levels of substrate salt and nutrients, variable substrate depth, and short vegetation.\n\nBarren lands are located in areas with a climate that is very damp and humid. For instance, the Buck Creek barrens in North Carolina, in the last ten years the zone receives around 1770 mm of precipitation. The Nottingham Serpentine Barren are very humid and has an average temperature of 11 degrees Celsius. Here, the average precipitation averages at 1200mm and is spread out evenly throughout the year. Another region of barren vegetation is located in the Appalachian Mountains. In the low elevation of the northern part of this mountain chain, the annual precipitation is a little lower than on the southern Appalachians high peaks. In this location, precipitation falls mostly as rain rather than snow; and also precipitation occurs mostly in the summer \n\nAnthropogenic interactions have been used over the years to help change and drive vegetation in the eastern US. Meaning that the actions of human-beings will play a role in what type of vegetation will grow in some locations. This is including things like fires and fire suppression, grazing, logging and agriculture clearing. Research has been done and anecdotal evidence has been shown to suggest vegetation structures and composition in the eastern serpentine barrens may have also been influenced by local disturbance regimes associated with these events as well as mining \nSavannahs and barrens are ecosystems that are rare in North America. This is due in part to human impacts, such as agriculture, urbanization, and altering the natural fire regimes. Over the past 50 years, the area of savannah-like openings and pine woodland has been continuously reduced of the years, a tendency opposite to that of hardwood forests. These changes in vegetation structures along with the composition are caused by, in part to anthropogenic changes in the fire regime. Following burning of vegetation there is a release of inorganic nutrients into the ecosystem caused by the combustion of the plants biomass and therefore, releasing the nutrients. This release of nutrients, after the occurrence is thought to be a reason for an increase in plant productivity.\n\nRegions on the earth’s surface where soils are dominating the ecosystems with little to no plant cover are often referred to as “Barren”. These places are areas like deserts, Polar Regions, areas of high elevation, and zones of glacier retreat. For barren zones that are situated in mountain ranges, they are often called the \"Subnival Zone\", and are found at elevations between the upper limit of the vegetation zone and the lower limit of the ice covered zone. Subnival zones in places like the Rockies, Andes and Himalayas have increased greatly in the past few years due to the retreat of high elevation glaciers and the ice caps.\nOne area for study is The Nottingham Serpentine Barrens, which covers 200 ha in southern Chester Country, Pennsylvania on the Pennsylvania-Maryland border. The typical serpentine barren is either a prairie or savannah grassland. The soils here in this location are a section of the Neshaminy-Chrome-Conowingo association. These soils are deep and are derived from the serpentine bedrock. This series of soils are well drained and also moderately sloping. With this, these specific locations have been under heavy erosion forces and have a depth to its parent bedrock within a distance of 15–75 cm. Here, there is also low permeability which makes it difficult for plants to have availability to water and therefore hard to collect moisture.\nMean elevation and elevation range limits both vegetation zones and individual species should be define with increasing latitude. For example, in the southern Appalachians, high-elevation outcrops, composition gradients are a function of elevation, potential solar radiation, geographic gradient that corresponds to broad geological differences (mafic rocks to the northwest vs. felsic rocks in the southwest direction), and surficial geomorphology (bedrock surfaces that are less fractured in the southeast).\n"}
{"id": "621549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621549", "title": "Base level", "text": "Base level\n\nIn geology and geomorphology a base level is the lower limit for an erosion process. The modern term was introduced by John Wesley Powell in 1875. The term was subsequently appropriated by William Morris Davis who used it in his cycle of erosion theory. The \"ultimate base level\" is the plane that results from projection of the sea level under landmasses. It is to this base level that topography tends to approach due to erosion, eventually forming a peneplain close to the end of a cycle of erosion. \n\nThere are also lesser structural base levels where erosion is delayed by resistant rocks. Examples of this include karst regions underlain by insoluble rock. Base levels may be local when large landmasses are far from the sea or disconnected from it, as in the case of endorheic basins. An example of this is the Messinian salinity crisis, in which the Mediterranean Sea dried up making the base level drop more than 1000 m below sea level.\n\nThe height of a base level also influences the position of deltas and river terraces. Together with river discharge and sediment flux the position of the base level influences the gradient, width and bed conditions in rivers. A relative drop in base level can trigger re-adjustments in river profiles including knickpoint migration and abandonment of terraces leaving them \"hanging\". Base level fall is also known to result in progradation of deltas and river sediment at lakes or sea. If the base level falls below the continental shelf, rivers may form a plain of braided rivers until headward erosion penetrates enough inland from the shelfbreak.\n\nWhen base levels are stable or rising rivers may aggrade. Rising base levels may also drown the lower courses of rivers creating rias. This happened in the Nile during the Zanclean flood when its lower course became, in a relatively short time, a large estuary extending up to 900 km inland from the Mediterranean coast.\n\nBase level change may be related to the following factors:\n"}
{"id": "52249038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52249038", "title": "Bertrand Westphal", "text": "Bertrand Westphal\n\nBertrand Westphal is a French scholar and essayist born on May 10, 1962 in Strasbourg, France.\n\nWestphal, a professor of comparative literature and literary theory, has been teaching at the University of Limoges since 1998. He has been directing the « Human Spaces and Cultural Interactions » research team (EA 1087) since 2000.\n\nHe was a visiting professor at Texas Tech University (2005) and at the University of North Carolina Charlotte (2013-2015).\n\nWestphal is the founder of Geocriticism, a method of literary analysis and literary theory that incorporates the study of geographic space. After editing the first collective work on this topic (\"La Géocritique mode d'emploi\"), he published the essay \"La Géocritique. Réel, fiction, espace\" in 2007. In 2011, the book was translated into English (United States) under the title of \"Geocriticism: Real and Fictional Spaces\" by Robert Tally, who has become one of the main promoters of this literary approach in the United States. Geocriticism lays the foundations of the homonymous theory, i.e. an interdisciplinary method of literary analysis that focuses on spatial representations.\n\nIn 2011, Westphal published the essay \"Le Monde plausible. Espace, lieu, carte\", which proposes a diachronic study of the models of spatial representation. In this book, he distinguishes open space and closed place and gives special value to maps. In 2013, \"Le Monde plausible\" was translated into English (United States) by Amy Wells under the title \"The Plausible World\".\nA third volume, \"La Cage des méridiens. La littérature et l’art contemporain face à la globalisation\", published in March 2016, completes what appears to be a Geocriticism trilogy. This work examines the specific role of literature and contemporary art on a global scale and focuses on transcultural logics and decentering.\n\nWestphal is the author of several other books, such as \"Roman et Evangile\" (2000) about the transposition, in a plain narratological sense, of episodes or characters drawn from the Gospels in the contemporary European novel. He is also the author of \"L’œil de la Méditerranée. Une odyssée littéraire\" (2005), which brings together a series of studies of Mediterranean places, and \"Austro-fictions. Une géographie de l’intime\" (2010), which explores the works of a dozen of contemporary Austrian writers.\nIn English: \n\nIn French: \n\n"}
{"id": "37469142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37469142", "title": "Biogeographic classification of India", "text": "Biogeographic classification of India\n\nBiogeographic classification of India is the division of India according to biogeographic characteristics. Biogeography is the study of the distribution of species (biology), organisms, and ecosystems in geographic space and through geological time. There are ten biogeographic zones in India.\n\nThe Himalayan ranges immediately north of the Great Himalayan range are called the Trans- Himalayas. The Trans-Himalayan region with its sparse vegetation has the richest wild sheep and goat community in the world. The snow leopard is found here, as is the migratory black-necked crane.\n\nThe Himalayas consist of the youngest and loftiest mountain chains in the world. The Himalayas have attained a unique personality owing to their high altitude, steep gradient and rich temperate flora.\n\nThe forests are very dense with extensive growth of grass and evergreen tall trees. Oak, chestnut, conifer, ash, pine, deodar are abundant in Himalayas. There is no vegetation above the snowline. Several interesting animals live in the Himalayan ranges. Chief species include wild sheep, mountain goats, ibex, shrew, and tapir. Panda and snow leopard are also found here.\n\nAdjoining the desert are the semi-arid areas, a transitional zone between the desert and the denser forests of the Western Ghats. The natural vegetation is thorn forest. This region is characterized by discontinuous vegetation cover with open areas of bare soil and soil-water deficit throughout the year.\n\nThorny shrubs, grasses and some bamboos are present in some regions. A few species of xerophytic herbs and some ephemeral herbs are found in this semi-arid tract. Birds, jackals, leopards, eagles, snakes, fox, buffaloes are found in this region.\n\nThe mountains along the west coast of peninsular India are the Western Ghats, which constitute one of the unique biological regions of the world. The Western Ghats extend from the southern tip of the peninsula (8°N) northwards about 1600 km to the mouth of the river Tapti (21°N).\n\nThe mountains rise to average altitudes between 900 and 1500 m above sea level, intercepting monsoon winds from the southwest and creating a rain shadow in the region to their East.\n\nThe varied climate and diverse topography create a wide array of habitats that support unique sets of plant and animal species. Apart from biological diversity, the region boasts of high levels of cultural diversity, as many indigenous people inhabit its forests.\n\nThe Western Ghats are amongst the 25 biodiversity hot-spots recognized globally. These hills are known for their high levels of endemism expressed at both higher and lower taxonomic levels. Most of the Western Ghat endemic plants are associated with evergreen forests.\n\nThe region also shares several plant species with Sri Lanka. The higher altitude forests were, if at all, sparsely populated with tribal people. Rice cultivation in the fertile valley proceeded gardens of early commercial crops like areca nut and pepper. The original vegetation of the ill-drained valley bottoms with sluggish streams in elevations below 100m would be often a special formation, the Myristica swamp.\n\nExpansion of traditional agriculture and the spread of particularly rubber, tea, coffee and forest tree plantations would have wiped out large pockets of primary forests in valleys. The Western Ghats are well known for harboring 14 endemic species of caecilians (i.e., legless amphibians) out of 15 recorded from the region so far.\n\nThis region consists of parts of Rajasthan, Kutch, Delhi and parts of Gujarat. The climate is characterised by very hot and dry summer and cold winter. Rainfall is less than 70 cm. The plants are mostly xerophytic. Babul, Kikar, wild palm grows in areas of moderate rainfall. Indian Bustard, a highly endangered bird is found here. Camels, wild asses, foxes, and snakes are found in hot and arid parts of the desert.\n\nBeyond the Ghats is Deccan Plateau, a semi-arid region lying in the rain shadow of the Western Ghats. This is the largest unit of the Peninsular Plateau of India. The highlands of the plateau are covered with different types of forests, which provide a large variety of forest products.the Deccan plateau includes the region lying south of the Satpura range.it extends up to the southern tip of peninsular India.Anai mudi is the highest peak of this region.The Deccan plateau is surrounded by the western and the eastern ghats.These ghats meet each other at the Nilgiri hills. The western ghats includes the Sahyadri, Nilgiris, Anamalai, and cardamom hills.many rivers such as Mahanadi, Godavari, krishna, and kaveri originates from western ghats and flow toward the east.The eastern ghats are broken into small hill rangesby river coming from the western ghats.Most of these rivers fall into the bay of bengal.The Godavari is the longest river in the Deccan plateau .the Narmada and the Tapi flow westwards and fall into the Arabian sea.\n\nIn the North is the Gangetic plain extending up to the Himalayan foothills. This is the largest unit of the Great Plain of India. Ganga is the main river after whose name this plain is named. The aggradational Great Plains cover about 72.4mha area with the Ganga and the Brahmaputra forming the main drainage axes in the major portion.\n\nThe thickness in the alluvial sediments varies considerably with its maximum in the Ganga plains. The physiogeographic scenery varies greatly from arid and semi-arid landscapes of the Rajasthan Plains to the humid and per-humid landscapes of the Delta and Assam valley in the east.\n\nTopographic uniformity, except in the arid Western Rajasthan is a common feature throughout these plains. The plain supports some of the highest population densities depending upon purely agro-based economy in some of these areas. The trees belonging to these forests are teak, sal, shisham, mahua, khair etc.\n\nNorth-east India is one of the richest flora regions in the country. It has several species of orchids, bamboos, ferns and other plants. Here the wild relatives of cultivated plants such as banana, mango, citrus and pepper can be grown\n\nThe two groups of islands, i.e., the Arabian Sea islands and Bay Islands differ significantly in origin and physical characteristics. The Arabian Sea Islands (Laccadive, Minicoy, etc.) are the foundered remnants of the old land mass and subsequent coral formations. On the other hand, the Bay Islands lay only about 220 km.\n\nAway from the nearest point on the main land mass and extend about 590 km. With a maximum width of 58 km the island forests of Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea have some of the best-preserved evergreen forests of India. Some of the islands are fringed with coral reefs. Many of them are covered with thick forests and some are highly dissected.\n\nIndia has a coastline extending over 7,516. 4 km. The Indian coasts vary in their characteristics and structures. The west coast is narrow except around the Gulf of Cambay and the Gulf of Kutch. In the extreme south, however, it is somewhat wider along the south Sahyadri.\n\nThe backwaters are the characteristic features of this coast. The east coast plains, in contrast are broader due to depositional activities of the east-flowing rivers owing to the change in their base levels.\n\nExtensive deltas of the \n, Godavari, Krishna and Kaveri are the characteristic features of this coast. Mangrove vegetation is characteristic of estuarine tracts along the coast for instance, at Ratnagiri in Maharashtra.\n\nLarger parts of the coastal plains are covered by fertile soils on which different crops are grown. Rice is the main crop of these areas. Coconut trees grow all along the coast.\n"}
{"id": "51765373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51765373", "title": "Blacksky Pathfinder-1", "text": "Blacksky Pathfinder-1\n\nBlacksky Pathfinder-1 is an earth imaging satellite of Spaceflight Industries. The satellite is equipped with payloads from Harris Corporation designed to image an area approximately 4.4 km x 6.6 km at 1-meter resolution.\n\nThis is first in a series of 60 satellites planned to deploy the BlackSky constellation that will provide near real-time images in about 90 minutes to produce images that are more current and wide-ranging to increase global transparency.\n\nThe satellite was launched on 26 September 2016 by ISRO using the PSLV-C35 rocket.\n"}
{"id": "5375296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5375296", "title": "Center for Land Use Interpretation", "text": "Center for Land Use Interpretation\n\nThe Center for Land Use Interpretation (CLUI) is a non-profit research organization, based on Venice Boulevard in the Westside Palms neighborhood of the city of Los Angeles, in southern California.\n\nThe Center for Land Use Interpretation (CLUI) was founded in 1994 by Matthew Coolidge, and is a non-profit research and education organization that involves exploring, examining, and understanding land and landscape issues. The Center employs a variety of methods to this end, engaging in research, classification, extrapolation, and exhibition. The mission statement of the CLUI is to \"increase and diffuse knowledge about how the nation's lands are apportioned, utilized, and perceived.\" The organization produces exhibitions about land use phenomenology in the USA, and displays them at its exhibit locations and at other museum and non-commercial and educational venues as well. The CLUI produces publications, online resources, tours, lectures, and other public programs across the country. Activities of the Center are summarized and discussed in its annual newsletter, \"The Lay of the Land\", available in print to subscribers as well as online. The CLUI's main office is in Los Angeles, on Venice Boulevard, across from downtown Culver City, where it operates a display space open to the public. It also operates other facilities and interpretive sites in the USA. CLUI is also the lead agency for the establishment of the American Land Museum, a network of exhibition sites in various interpretive zones across the country, which together form a dynamic portrait of the national landscape. According to Coolidge, the \"man made landscape is a cultural inscription that can help us better understand who we are and what we are doing.\"\n\nNeither an environmental organization nor an artist collective, CLUI resists categorization by maintaining a diverse, eclectic program of activities that invite a closer examination of \"humankind's interaction with the Earth's surface.\" Writer and curator Lucy Lippard suggests the CLUI occupies “a tantalizing liminal space (that) has opened up between disciplines, between the arts, geography, history, archeology, sociology.” Culture writer Doug Harvey calls the Center, known for its “multidisciplinary examinations of human/landscape interaction, 'uncategorizable'.” He refers to CLUI programs, such as the 2008 \"Post Consumed\" exhibit and bus tour as “subtly infused with formal beauty and wit…unobtrusively informed by a patchwork of art historical, contemporary theoretical, sociological and geopolitical concerns and brimming with new information you don’t know is here until the ride home.”\n\nAccording to Los Angeles Times architecture critic Christopher Hawthorne, the CLUI's activities “all tell some version of the same story: how we shape and find meaning in the physical landscape around us, whether it’s through oil exploration, architecture, map-making or freeway building.” The CLUI specializes in what writer Nicola Twilley describes as a “brand of perceptual revelation”–“in which a previously overlooked site is made not only visible, but also legible as a guide to understanding larger, nationwide systems.”\n\nThe CLUI also executes exhibitions, research projects, and public programs. The Center's programs and projects cover many types of land uses in the USA, including those related to agriculture, energy, industry, mining, communication, waste management, water resources, transportation, commerce, housing, recreation, and defense and preparedness.\n\nThe CLUI makes a collection of \"unusual and exemplary\" land use sites in the United States available online, through the Land Use Database. Site-specific images in the database are taken by members of the CLUI, and are attributed to the CLUI Photo Archive. Another archive of non-site-specific images taken by members of the CLUI, known as the Morgan Cowles Archive, is also available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "41112493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41112493", "title": "Christian Jost (geographer)", "text": "Christian Jost (geographer)\n\nChristian H. Jost is a French Geographer.\n\nChristian (Henri) Jost is Professor of Geography and Development at the University of French Polynesia (UPF) in Tahiti (Fr) and Researcher at the Center for Insular Research and Observatory of the Environment (CRIOBE) one of France's leading laboratories for the study of coral ecosystems. After thirteen years in various position and universities in Africa (Zaïre, Rwanda, Cameroon, Togo) and two years on development projects in India (Andhra-Pradesh and Gujarat), he went as professor at the University of New Caledonia where he opened the first diploma in Geography(BSc) and spent a year as visiting fellow at Sydney University. He then went to University of Lorraine – Metz where he was Director of the Geographical Research Center from 2006 to 2011, then joined the University of French Polynesia, where he is dean of the Faculty of Human Sciences, Languages and Literature. He is associated researcher to PRODIG UMR 8586 Research unit of CNRS Paris Sorbonne 1, IV, Paris 7 universities and IRD,\n\nHis research domains are on - Systems of constraints and challenges of development and environmental management in the Souths - Eco-geosystemic evolution, coastal dynamics, geopolitics and valorization of the territory of La Passion - Clipperton - Water and Risks - Island Geosystems - Sociocultural and Ecosystem Values and Indicators of Landscapes as Decision Support.\n\nAlthough the author of over 150 scientific papers on various subjects, Jost is particularly associated with Clipperton Island on which he is working for the past twenty years and went five times through expeditions he organized. Surveys he made there in 1997 and 2001 (confirmed in 2005) established that Clipperton is the largest colony of masked boobies in the world, with 110,000 individuals at that time. Jost was a member of SURPACLIPP, Viviane Solis-Weiss's 1997 Franco—Mexican oceanographic expedition to Clipperton (a joint venture of the National Autonomous University of Mexico and the University of New Caledonia), then led the 2001 follow-up expedition Passion 2001, which provided updated data on the geography, environment, water resources and management constraints of the atoll. In April 2015 he organized the international scientific expedition PASSION 2015 with the assistance of the French Navy and French Army and brought fourteen scientists from France, France Overseas territories and Mexico to study reef biota, coastal dynamics, flora inventory, waste inventory and fauna studies, etc. This was followed in October by an Important Colloquium he co-organized with French Deputy and CPOM ONG at the French Assemblée Nationale (Parliament).\n\nHe has been widely invited to give Conferences, Master or Doctorate seminars, or participate to international Workshops and Congress, among which, Québec several universities; Rio de Janeiro, UFF, 2011 as co-organizer of the first world Congress on \"Risks and civil security\", invited by the Charles Darwin Foundation, Galapagos at the international Workshop on sustainable development of islands facing tourism; invited by Tioumen State University, Siberia, Russia, 2010 for an international workshop on sustainable development; Agadir and Fès, Marocco, from 2008 annually for Conferences and Master courses and student field tour; Cuba, Uni. La Havanna, 2007, 2008; Hawaii, Manoa Uni. & EWC; Mexico, UNAM; Sydney, Uni. Sydney, UNSW; Suva, USP, Fiji islands; Port-Vila, Vanuatu, etc.\n\nJost has also researched and written on other aspects of geography and ecology of the Pacific Ocean, and has worked, studied, and traveled extensively in Africa and Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3667154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3667154", "title": "Ciénega", "text": "Ciénega\n\nA ciénega (also spelled ciénaga) is a wetland system unique to the American Southwest. Ciénagas are alkaline, freshwater, spongy, wet meadows with shallow-gradient, permanently saturated soils in otherwise arid landscapes that often occupied nearly the entire widths of valley bottoms. That description satisfies historic, pre-damaged ciénagas, although few can be described that way now. Incised ciénagas are common today. Ciénagas are usually associated with seeps or springs, found in canyon headwaters or along margins of streams. Ciénagas often occur because the geomorphology forces water to the surface, over large areas, not merely through a single pool or channel. In a healthy ciénaga, water slowly migrates through long, wide-scale mats of thick, sponge-like wetland sod. Ciénaga soils are squishy, permanently saturated, highly organic, black in color or anaerobic. Highly adapted sedges, rushes and reeds are the dominant plants, with succession plants — Goodding's willow, Fremont cottonwoods and scattered Arizona walnuts — found on drier margins, down-valley in healthy ciénagas where water goes underground or along the banks of incised ciénagas. Although trees drown in historic ciénagas — that’s why “swamp” is a common erroneous description; swamps have trees — these woody plants now occupy many damaged or drained ciénagas.\n\nUndamaged ciénagas, essentially nonexistent today, were characterized by a slow-moving, broad flow through extensive emergent vegetation as just described. But today, the ongoing region-wide erosion that followed the arrival of Europeans in the American Southwest and the subsequent misuse of the land by settlers firmly entrenched water flow between vertical walls, resulting in an ever-worsening incision process, a drawdown of local water tables and the drying up of most marshland environments, leaving behind scarcely few undamaged ciénagas. Many that remain today look and function like a creek: narrow, incised and continuing to degrade. \"Since the late 1800s, natural wetlands in arid and semi-arid desert grasslands of the American Southwest and Northern Mexico have largely disappeared.\"\n\nCiénaga is a Spanish term meaning desert marsh, bog or shallow, slow-moving flow of water through dense surface vegetation — often mistakenly thought of as originating from \"cién-aguas,\" literally \"100 waters\" — derived from \"ciéno,\" meaning silt. There are two accepted spellings, \"ciénaga\" and \"ciénega\". Spelling it with an \"a\", would seem best because the Spanish word for water, \"agua,\" is spelled with an \"a\", although spelling with an \"e\" is far more common and used by most in the scientific community.\n\nThere are an inordinate variety of pronunciations, spellings — corruptions and variants — definition and confusion about the etymology of the word \"ciénaga\".\n\nAlthough under recognized, ciénagas have been important for a very long time. “In general, most prehistoric agricultural settlements were located near \"ciénagas\" or on the floodplains of the major perennial streams where irrigated agriculture could be practiced.” It was not until 1984 that Dean A. Hendrickson and W. L. Minckley alerted academics in the Southwest to the importance of its overlooked ciénagas. So-called progress and development often led to the unfortunate thinking that, \"the only good wetland was a drained wetland.\"\n\nSince their rather inauspicious invitation for further study, the effort to understand and restore ciénagas has gradually gained prominence. Although not the exclusive view, but suggestive of how ciénagas were typically thought of historically, is this exchange, a 1940s-era conversation between Richard Bradford's narrator, Joshua Arnold, and his school chum in the New Mexico novel, \"Red Sky at Morning\"\"I didn't know there was this much water around Sagrado,\" I said. \"The Sagrado River's been dry since I got here.\"\"This is a \"cienega\",\" Parker said. \"It's some kind of underground spring, but it’s not good for anything but making the ground wet. Costs a fortune to drain it or pump it off, and Cloyd isn't about to spend money for things like that.\" \n\nThe importance of ciénagas is staggering. Wet, they are critical for birds and other animals; “more than 70 percent of land animals use riparian areas.” Wetlands in the Southwest occupy under two percent of the land area and have an exorbitant impact on the region; wetlands are critical habitat for \"at risk\" species; at least 19 percent of Arizona's endangered, threatened or candidate species for protection are dependent on wetland environments. “There are over 1,900 species listed under the Endangered Species Act as either threatened or endangered; 1,320 are in the United States and of that number, 573 are animal species (the rest are plants) and of them, about half live in aquatic environments; …beyond species of concern, simply by providing differential habitat in otherwise arid regions, desert ciénegas and riparian corridors may increase regional biodiversity by up to 50%.\" Although their numerical count is less dramatic, ninety-five percent of ciénaga habitat is dry today.\n\nAbundant archeology surrounds ciénagas; they harbor data about Native American land use; contain fossil remains of prehistoric animals now extinct; proxy data such as pollen, charcoal and isotopes preserved in ciénaga sediment that are now cored and studied and appear to be the best way to uncover not only their past but the history of the Southwest; as \"keystone ecosystems,\" they have a vastly disproportionate relevance to their surroundings; and, not unimportantly, there is their beauty.\n\nCiénagas also provide the source for “ecosystem services,” an emerging restoration notion in which market value is attributed to various environmental functions provided by landowners for the public good and for which they have historically not been compensated: filtering rain and snowmelt; slowing seasonal flood pulses to reduce stream channel degradation and to otherwise slow soil erosion; promoting groundwater recharge; and delivering clean, safe drinking water at a far lower cost than it would take to build infrastructure to replace these services.\n\nA long-forgotten indication that there used to be far more water in the Southwest and suggesting there were more ciénagas here than we’ll ever know is the \"sumidero.\" The word in standard Spanish means “a sewer, drain or gutter,” but to early settlers and ranchers it meant “a mask well or sinkhole.” They were dangerous, 10 to 20 feet across, deep, spring-like traps that showed up unexpectedly on plains or bare, alkali-covered flats with too much mud to flow and too much water to dry up. The thin, upper mud surface of a \"sumidero\" was baked dry, absent any indication to distinguish it from nearby safer ground. If a man, horse or cattle stepped onto the treacherous surface of a \"sumidero\", they could instantly perish without ever being recovered. These sinkholes were often fenced. Although mostly lost, stories persist of cowboys and animals being sucked into the mud under the crisp surface of \"sumideros\". These dangerous features of a formerly less arid Southwest are long gone but offer insight into the future of ciénagas, absent efforts to save these few nearly forgotten waters.\n\nThere are two perspectives for studying the history of ciénagas, either how they were degraded after the arrival of Europeans to the Southwest or how ciénagas developed, how they aggraded and how they were established during the 10,000 years before Anglo-European entry. Both are important, but very different. While the scientists studying ciénagas have only recently begun the daunting task of uncovering the natural processes that established them, the explanation for their losses and deterioration is clear.\n\nIn less than 200 years, an innocent and disconnected series of mostly human-caused events conspired to transform the Southwest from a depositional environment to an erosional one, severely lowering groundwater tables, drying the land and resulting in a bewilderingly high number of ciénaga losses. This period can be thought of as \"The Great Ciénaga Disappearance.\" What nature painstakingly assembled over a period of some 10,000 years, we humans nearly destroyed in less than 200 years. Most ciénaga habitat has simply disappeared, leaving only a “skeleton” or thin stream of water that, absent a concentrated restoration effort, will soon blink out.\n\nTheir disappearance began with the arrival of Spanish livestock in what is now the American Southwest. The search for the Seven Cities of Gold failed miserably, but Spain's hunt for wealth persisted as sheep — trampling ciénaga banks, disrupting the habitat and over-using water — became the dominant domestic animal in its northern frontier in North America. Arriving with Juan de Oñate and his party of colonists in 1598 and retained by the Pueblo Indians after they revolted and sent Spaniards south in 1680, the raising of sheep persisted well after the 1692 Spanish \"reconquista\" and by the late 1700s was a major regional industry. By 1756, one commissioned source put New Mexico sheep numbers held by Spanish and Puebloan herders at 115,737. Sheep outnumbered cattle almost seven to one. While these early numbers are always suspect, by the 1820s as many as two million sheep covered New Mexico, and, by 1865, the numbers of sheep more than doubled with a ratio of sheep to cattle ballooning to 37 to 1 or 4,600,000 sheep to only 125,000 cows.\n\nCiénaga dewatering continued with the over-trapping of beavers in the 1820-30s. In a surprisingly short period, beavers were virtually eradicated from the American Southwest. Beaver dams soon failed from neglect, and channels began to form in the soft sediments trapped behind these barriers. Over time, the channels became increasingly connected and the process of channeling, down-cutting and dewatering of ciénagas took hold.\n\nShallow, flatland watercourses and adjacent riparian zones shifted from complex systems dominated by ponds, multiple channels, ciénagas, marshes and otherwise wide wetlands plentiful in fish and wildlife into simple, incised, single-thread channels with narrow strips of riparian vegetation. Beavers are capable of building \"…as many as twenty dams per mile of stream. The dams smear the water across the landscape, so to speak, transforming a rushing rivulet into a series of broad pools and mucky wetlands linked by shallow, multiply branched channels. Indians regarded them as a fine thing…\"With the demise of the beaver came a major alteration of the Western landscape. The beaver (\"Castor Canadensis\") is one of the few animals with the capacity to reshape its environment significantly; because of its engineering talents and sociability, the Apaches believed the beaver to be the wisest of all creatures…Thousands of [beaver lodges] once dotted the Gila, forming reservoirs that helped control seasonal flooding and provide wetlands for migrating birds. The wholesale destruction of the beaver disrupted…ecological relationships, and for the first-time erosion became a major problem as the river flooded unchecked, while animal populations fluctuated wildly as their habitats began to disappear.The loss of huge numbers of beaver by intense trapping was a (major) step in converting dynamic and complex stream and river ecosystems into the relatively static and simplified water delivery systems that we see today.The beaver-laden Southwest was far different from the one we know today. At the intersection of Interstate-10 and the Gila River south of Phoenix, Arizona, hundreds of beaver were trapped out, where today only barren desert remains. \"People could walk in the shade from the headwaters of the Gila River in New Mexico all the way to Yuma, Arizona,\" where the formerly perennial river emptied into the Colorado River. In 1891, two Silver City, New Mexico, men floated on the Gila River from its headwaters to Yuma. Due to the monumental changes to its habitat and desertification, the American Southwest of today is merely an artifact of what it was 150 years ago.\n\nMany ciénagas also suffered damage when early settlers re-contoured the broad ciénaga canyon flats in a misguided attempt to prevent the flooding of their agricultural fields. Remnant ditches, dikes and dams persist today throughout many of the abandoned canyon fields near some of the few remaining and poorly functioning ciénagas. The resulting channelization and concentrated water flow have reduced these historic wetlands to a fraction of their original size and have inadvertently created deep, high-walled incisions that have progressively worsened — though most farming has long-since ceased — and exacerbated the region-wide lowering of the groundwater table, further dewatering formerly wetted ciénagas.\n\nThe damage to ciénagas caused by sheep, followed by the decimation of beaver and the conversion of open land to agricultural fields was then worsened with the overstocking of cattle and the explosion of hugely ill-suited cattle herds by the 1880s. Ciénagas were trampled and dewatered, grasslands neutered, erosion accelerated, and other damages followed. While the ratio of sheep to cattle was thirty-seven to one a mere 25 years earlier, by 1890, cattle numbers had spiked to 1,809,400, and the ratio narrowed to nearly two to one, 3,492,800 sheep to 1,809,400 cattle and ultimately flipped to fifteen to one (1,540,000 cattle to 110,000 sheep).\n\nCiénaga habitat in an otherwise arid, resource constrained landscape was the first source of water to be used by Hispanics and Anglos for their livestock. As early as the 1680s, Pima Indians in Sonora were complaining that Spanish livestock were so common that watering places were drying out. The effects of long-term, sustained grazing — particularly during drought episodes — caused reduced plant cover and vigor; increased runoff and sediment transport; fostered desertification, which worsened the deepening of incised channels; triggered water table declines and further loss of wetland vegetation, thereby making ciénagas and their surrounds among the most abused sites on earth.\n\nThen the severe weather and drought of the late 1880s and early 1890s exacerbated the degradation of the re-contoured and overstocked landscape devoid of beavers that had already seen grass and wetlands severely degraded. After the unusually dry summer in 1886, the consistently below-zero temperatures in the winter of 1887 were so bitter that cattlemen could not have imagined the late spring that followed. The weather worsened as mild winter rains and unusually dry summers peaked with two years of drought in 1891-3, bringing disaster with livestock mortalities reaching 75 percent.\n\nSprings and ciénagas long thought to be permanently wetted went completely dry. The 1878 report to the United States Geological Survey (USGS) by John Wesley Powell warned that the arid, short-grass plains were poorly suited for intensive grazing because of recurrent drought and so little rain west of the hundredth meridian. But nobody listened; boomers, runners and raiders prevailed as developers’ disingenuous “boosterism” — \"The rain follows the plow.\" — consistently outpaced natural resources. House-high piles of cattle bones and a severely damaged landscape scarred the Southwest and foretold the price to be suffered by future generations. The persistence of drought and uneven rains as a cause of de-watering in the Southwest is worsening due to accelerating climate change.\n\nCompounding the over-trapping of beaver, over-stocking of sheep and cattle, the draining and conversion of land for agriculture, and drought, fire suppression by the recent European occupants of the Southwest may have caused as much harm as these others combined.\n\nCaused by lightning originating in pre-monsoonal thunderstorms and from purposeful ignition by Native Americans, fire was a significant influence in the evolution of southwestern ecosystems in which many plant species are fire-adapted. But since the arrival of Europeans in the Southwest, fire has been suppressed to such an extent — on average from occurring every 8 to 10 years to now occurring almost never, except for forest fires — that woody plants have out-competed grasses and transformed historic grasslands into a landscape dominated by trees and shrubs.\n\nThe majority of grass biomass consists of roots that lie beneath the surface while trees and other woody plants is just the opposite, above ground. Before the arrival of Europeans, Southwest grassland fires occurred so often that they killed many woody plant species, yet merely topped off and strengthened the health of grasses. This frequent fire regime was a long time, natural intervention allowing grasses to out-compete woody plants. This transition from grasslands to woodlands helped finish off many ciénagas and severely reduces the size of those that remained. See YouTube: \"Aridland Ciénagas\" for a drone-filmed survey of a surviving ciénaga undergoing restoration.\n\nThe benefits ciénagas provided the lands of the Southwest were enormous. They not only provided a rich habitat for plant and animal life, but the combination of lateral spreading of flood pulses and abundant above-ground vegetation lessened the erosive potential of floods and protected the softer surface sediments. Broad ciénaga surfaces dispersed seasonal flood pulses into sheet flows and prevented the channelization fostered by the combination of insults outlined above. Ciénagas and grasslands formerly captured large amounts of sediment suspended in sheet flows that for the past 200 years have eroded barren soils in today's gully-washers, flowing through ever-deepening incisions or arroyos throughout the Southwest. The result is heightened flash flooding and exaggerated channel discharge that has reduced water tables and further exacerbated the already severe dewatering of ciénagas.\n\nThe combination of these forces transformed the entire Southwest as desertification reduced ciénaga area to a mere fraction — five percent — of its historic habitat. The dominant land surface process in the Southwest today is stream scour, the opposite of sheet flow or slow moving water that was the norm just 200 years ago. Absent coordinated intervention to preserve these dwindling habitats, the future of ciénagas is bleak: \"[s]ince 1900, erosion associated with post-settlement channelization, and drawdown of local water tables have dried up most ciénaga environments.\"\n\nThe mechanisms underlying ciénaga development — natural and long evolving, as opposed to those of their destruction, which were abrupt and extreme — began as the earth cooled and the last ice age came to a close. The Holocene Epoch began 11,500 years ago.\n\nWhile ciénagas had been an important part of the American Southwest for thousands of years, until recently little was known about them. Their importance and the extent of their disappearance and damage were meaningfully identified only 30 years ago with the publication of the paper that called for and resulted in a flurry of follow-up studies. In their seminal 1984 \"Ciénegas - Vanishing Climax Communities of the American Southwest,\" ichthyologists Dean A. Hendrickson and W. L. Minckley focused on ciénagas in southeast Arizona and, for the first time, gave them prominence on the scholarly radar:We hypothesize the ciénaga to be an aquatic climax community …[that] act as traps for organic materials and nutrients in the aquatic ecosystem, and must be remarkably productive…In light of their continuing disappearance, cultural histories, and importance to aquatic faunas and floras, these dwindling, valuable, as yet little-understood ecosystems constitute a resource which merits further investigation…The technology that would be used to answer this call and the history it would uncover could have hardly been imagined. Hendrickson and Minckley's appeal for further study prompted a string of increasingly complex investigations. Diverse and ongoing scholarship is looking into ciénagas and associated landscape questions, not just changes in habitat composition and structure brought on by European arrival, but answers to the questions of growth rates, as well as when and how ciénagas, and in turn the Southwest, developed. Scientists are in the process of understanding their history, vegetation composition, the implications of climate change, and, importantly, the means and potential for restoration, conservation and management. They are slowly uncovering the evolution of these unique, one-of-a-kind, aridland, fresh water habitats.\n\nInterwoven, multidisciplinary approaches call on botany, geology, geophysics, geography and other branches of knowledge to bring this elusive prehistory into focus. These studies are teasing out answers by investigating the record of sediment build-up, the profile of ciénaga-drawn cores containing stable sedimentary isotopes, pollen, microscopic charcoal or fire remnants, elemental fractions of organic materials and identifying the sources of the organic matter buried within the sediments. The following time line summarizes several of these studies:21,000 BP — The period of the last glacial maximum when ice sheets throughout the globe were at their maximum extension of the earth, glaciers were at their thickest and the sea levels were at their lowest. The American Deserts were forested, with large pluvial lakes punctuating and rivers flowing across the landscape. The Pleistocene or Ice Age ended, and the Holocene Epoch began.11,500 BP — Stream flows remained strong, capable of moving rocks and cobbles, precluding establishment of most ciénagas, save those few along more protected reaches.8000 BP — Furthest time for which scientists have collected continuous evidence of ciénaga materials to determine when and how ciénagas developed. Water flows remained robust and still prevented the wholesale establishment of ciénagas, a time \"when winter precipitation was minimal, fire was rare.\" \"However we do have evidence from the American Deserts of ciénegas deep into the last ice age.\"7200 BP — Initial stabilization of ciénaga occurred as flows slowed, allowing formation of wetlands. \"During most of the past 7,068 years this environment has been slowly aggrading…[although] this generally slow process of accumulating sediments is punctuated by periods of rapid development.\" 6000 BP — Onset of El Niño/La Niña-Southern Oscillation, warm and cool recurring, alternating, quasi-periodic climate pattern that occurs across the tropical Pacific Ocean and accounts for much of the fire variability in the Southwest.5300 BP — Before this period, woody plants dominated the uplands with \"fire episode frequency below (1 fire every 200 years)\" and even more infrequent when winter precipitation was low. The transition to grasslands began around this time; after this period, fire frequency increased to \"1.3 every 100 years.\"7200 – 4100 BP — Fine grain sediment increases, suggesting permanent and prolonged annual wetting, stable ciénagas that went through at least three steady states after initial stabilization: · 6300 – 6000 BP· 4700 – 4000 BP· 1600 – 750 BP4500 BP — Due to heavy moisture, a period of river system down-cutting in the Southwest; fire frequency increased to \"2.1 fires/100 years\" or one fire every 48 years.4100 – 2400 BP — 1,700-year dry interval period where ciénaga water permanence severely lessened, and fire frequency decreased to only \"1 fire every 100 years.\"4100 – 1300 BP — Dominated by grasses, this period was similar to present day. Ciénagas were stable with the transitional shift from arid habitat to wetter conditions, trending toward more aquatic states—conditions that persisted until European settlement.3400 BP — Earliest prehistoric presence of human activity is demonstrated by the presence of corn (\"Zea\") pollen at Animas Creek ciénaga in New Mexico. \"Zea\" pollen, found in various sediment cores pulled from ciénagas throughout the region, establishes Native Americans' use of ciénagas and their surrounds.1300 - 750 BP — Stability in upland vegetation and ciénaga surfaces was established, \"water ponding and stagnation of the water was likely occurring,\" sedges and cattails dominated, and fire frequency increased to \"2.6 fire episodes per 100 years\" or a fire, on average, every 38 years.1692 CE — The Spanish arrived in large numbers after the \"reconquista\", 200 years after Columbus.1700s CE — The dramatic decline of charcoal corresponds with the appearance of filaree (\"Erodium cicutarium\") pollen in sediment cores about 1795, which in turn corresponds with the establishment of Camp Grant in 1860, almost 200-years after Spanish colonization in 1692. Coring shows frequent burning of some ciénagas before European contact, and six ciénagas record an increase in dung fungus (\"Sporormiella\") spores common among grazing animals increased during the so-called (post-contact) historic period in response to the introduction of livestock. “The change in fire history is linked to human activity by the prehistoric presence of the pollen of weeds and corn (\"Zea\") in the ciénegas.\"1800 CE — Before 1800, fire frequency had increased, on average, to one fire every decade, but abruptly decreased with the displacement of native agriculture by European settlement, triggering accelerated post-settlement transformation of wetland vegetation back to woody species.There are several undeniable conclusions from these studies: \n\nThe global warming occurring in the American Southwest is going to worsen:Human activities are already changing the climate of the American West…[T]he Rocky Mountain Climate Organization and the Natural Resources Defense Council [report] drawn from 50 scientific studies, 125 other government and scientific sources, and [its] own new analyses, documents that the West is being affected more by a changed climate than any other part of the United States outside of Alaska. When compared to the 20th Century average, the West has experienced an increase in average temperature during the last five years that is 70 percent greater than the world as a whole. \"[T]he borderlands are going to get warmer…minimum winter and maximum summer temperatures are likely to increase in the southwestern U.S, and precipitation is likely to decease… ENSO variability will likely increase fire frequency…\" The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) 22nd Annual State of the Climate report for 2011 found the Arctic was warming about twice as fast as the rest of the planet, and heat-trapping greenhouse gas concentrations continued to rise with the global average atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide going over 390 parts per million for the first time. As of this writing, it is over 400 parts per million. The United Kingdom's Met Office suggests \"event attribution science\" — which is in its early stages and must be stated in terms of probability rather than certainty — posits that the 2011 heat waves in Texas and England were, respectively, 20 and 60 times more likely than they would have been 50 years ago because of climate change.\n\nGlobal warming is dramatically increasing extreme weather. Ciénaga restoration and management will become increasingly more challenging because this forthcoming barrage of heat and drought will occur in a context of ever-deepening incisions and a landscape degraded and stripped of grasses with groundwater lower than ever. Pile extreme weather events — less but heavier rains, worse storms — atop these existing conditions, and the tasks of reversing the 200-year erosive trend that has bankrupted these systems and recapturing stable ciénaga dynamics become formidable. It is worth mention, that as carbon sequestration gains recognition in the challenges posed by climate change, ciénagas serve as “sweet spots” for carbon capture.\n\nThe question of fire or burning at water sources and on the landscape had long been an unresolved one, some arguing that fires were uncommon and others suggesting that fires were frequent and played a significant role in the evolution and maintenance of desert systems before the arrival of Europeans. Conventional wisdom was driven by the Pristine Myth, an idealized Thoreauvian view of a natural wilderness in which Native Americans barely made a perceptible disturbance and were merely another natural element of the region.\n\nBut it is now understood that Native Americans caused significant modifications to habitats by clearing of forest and intentional burning. Fire scientists and ecologists have identified fire scars in trees, charcoal layers in lake sediment and, most recently, charcoal and other materials from desert ciénaga sediments — together, establishing Native American intentional use of fire.\n\nThe examination of microscopic charcoal from six ciénagas in the Sonoran Desert in Arizona and Sonora, Mexico, \"document a marked expansion of wetland taxa — particularly woody plants — about 200 years ago at the beginning of the historic periods.\" This study summarizes a series of abrupt changes in fire and sediment content during the transition from the prehistoric to historic period and also summarizes findings compatible with this change:\nThe oldest corn (\"Zea\") pollen found in ciénagas is dated 3400 BP, suggesting Native Americans used ciénagas and the surrounding area for crops. The appearance of European-introduced filaree is preceded by a dramatic decline in charcoal. Among woody plants, Gooding's willow pollen, so ubiquitous today along riparian corridors in the Southwest, increased most consistently.\n\nThese recent studies have expanded the initial Hendrickson and Minckley work and demonstrate even more convincingly the peril facing this unique and long-used aridland water: \"Springs ecosystems are among the most structurally complicated, ecologically and biologically diverse, productive, evolutionary provocative, and threatened ecosystems on earth.\"Desert wetlands, or ciénegas, have been overlooked in conservation priority assessments…[and] some authors have argued for increasing their conservation priority. Ciénegas have exceptional value for avian diversity... [as] more species of migrating birds in [the Southwest] … use isolated ciénegas than sites along a continuous riparian corridor. The conservation potential for ciénegas in arid and semi-arid ecosystems is incredibly high considering the wealth of ecosystem services these environments provide when functioning properly (and the) conservation value that will grow under the conditions expected with global climate change…Given the realities of how to best spend limited conservation dollars and resources, conservation and restoration of extant ciénegas may prove to be the greatest net benefit in terms of current endangerment.\n\nThe cultural implications of water must also be kept in mind. Water has long played a sacred and functional role in the lives of pre-Columbian Asian immigrants or Native Americans. Springs, seeps and ciénagas held a unique place in their world: \"…springs were simply alive. They were points where creation came to the surface and spilled out, where a hand could actually reach forward to feel the emergence.\" Many of these First Nations People, including Zuni and Hopi, believe they emerged from the underworld through springs. These special places were their emergence point.\n\nIt is likely that there were many hundreds of long lost ciénagas when the Southwest was Indian country, although there are only 155 identified or named ciénagas since the European arrival in the entire International Four Corners Region of the Southwest — that is, Arizona and New Mexico in the United States and Chihuahua and Sonora in Mexico. As awareness of their importance grows, their numbers will invariably increase. There were also named ciénagas that can no longer be located, many unnoticed and unnamed, and an unknown number of scattered ciénagas existing on private land but secreted because landowners fear detection will adversely affect their property rights. As shown in Table 2 below, fewer than half (44%) of known ciénagas are functional or restorable, while 56% have no potential for restoration or are dead.\nPrompted by the siren call of the God-endowed duty to migrate west and civilize the Natives — Manifest Destiny — the United States government induced settlers to go west by offering free land. Naturally, after their arduous journey west, pioneers selected the best land available. The valleys, waterways and flat lands offered the best value; and, today, the higher up-slope one goes, the greater the percentage of public land. Most of the prime land has remained in private hands, and there are but a few ways to honor property rights and provide the protection these endangered habitats require. Most ciénagas are on private lands and unprotected by any formal, legally binding, conservation regime.\n\nRapid degradation of watersheds across the nation was educator, conservationist and father of the American land ethic Aldo Leopold's abiding concern and brought him to confront the universality of challenges facing the protection of important habitat: \"The government cannot buy everywhere...The private landowner must enter the picture...The basic problem \"is to induce the private landowner to conserve his own land\", and no conceivable millions or billions for public land purchase can alter that fact...\" (emphasis in original)\n\nWhile these endangered habitats have suffered a rapid and staggering degree of loss, the few remaining ciénagas are salvageable, usable and even profitable if restored. Widespread spontaneous recovery is unlikely without concerted restoration efforts. Ciénagas will heal on their own only in \"… small areas where local geomorphic structure is particularly favorable to wetland development.\" But “…once established, ciénega vegetation appears highly resistant to removal by seasonal flooding, instead the vegetation has a stabilizing effect on the stream bed and becomes a sink for sediment trapping and water retention [and carbon sequestration].\" Large scale recovery will likely require a significant shift in awareness among the general public, some rethinking by bureaucrats and a much-needed broadening of politician's land ethics to include habitat in order to return these desert watercourses to their authentic state.\n\nEveryone is interested in a return on investment — that is, where to best spend limited funds. In Arizona, as of 2012, there were 82 plants and animals that were either endangered, threatened or proposed for listing under the Endangered Species Act. Of these, 15 are directly associated with ciénagas. \"[A]ridland springs function as 'keystone ecosystems,' exerting vastly disproportionate impacts on regional ecology, evolutionary processes, and sociocultural economics in relation to their size.\" If one has only limited funds for habitat improvement and hope to meaningfully aid \"at risk\" animals and plants, nearly 20 percent of an entire region's troubled species can be helped by investing in ciénaga restoration. Despite the increasing extent of ciénaga habitat loss and severe damage to the few ciénagas that remain, there are still those that have long persisted and arguably represent the single most important resource for the maintenance and preservation of regional biodiversity.\n\nThere is a link between Aldo Leopold, who more than anyone is responsible for broadening our notion of ethics to embrace the land community, and Wallace Stegner, who adapted this ethic to fit the arid West. Throughout his career, Stegner bemoaned the misguided importation of inherited, humid, wetland habits adapted to the nation's lands east of the 100th meridian — the longitudinal line that separates “wet-enough” from “too-dry,” 20-plus inches of annual rain to under 12 inches — to the arid soils lying to the boundary's west. He saw the sparse lands west of the 100th meridian as suffering a vulnerability of resources that made the West's social and economic structure tentative, uncertain and shifting. There were New Mexicans who knew this long ago. In an April 29, 1881, letter to his wife Susan, Governor and \"Ben-Hur\" author Lew Wallace wrote: \"All calculations based on our experiences elsewhere fail in New Mexico.\" Throughout Stegner’s long career, he emphasized the salient feature of this land of little rain: aridity and the...compelling fact...that the basic resource of water and soil, which can be mismanaged elsewhere without necessarily drastic consequences, cannot be mismanaged in the West without consequences that are immediate and catastrophic and that reach a long way.Ciénagas have long played an unheralded role in the biota of the International Four Corners Region and there are now ongoing efforts to inventory, restore and preserve them. A working ciénaga inventory is maintained at the University of Texas Austin with access to numerous papers, google maps and other ciénaga materials: \n\n"}
{"id": "50412658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50412658", "title": "Compost Everything", "text": "Compost Everything\n\nCompost Everything: The Good Guide to Extreme Composting is a 2015 gardening book about extreme composting written by David the Good.\n\n"}
{"id": "32646267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32646267", "title": "Countryside (Åland)", "text": "Countryside (Åland)\n\nCountryside is a subdivision of Åland and one of the Sub-regions of Finland since 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "28467757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28467757", "title": "Districts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Districts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo were divided into 26 districts. Those in turn were divided into territories or communes.\n\nThe 2006 constitution planned to convert many of the districts into provinces under a decentralization program. However, progress was slow. \nIn October 2007 the Minister for Decentralization, Denis Kalume Numbi, presented a bill for Decentralization in the National Assembly. The subsequent debate turned up a variety of issues that first had to be addressed with changes to related laws.\nIn an October 2010 conclave of the ruling AMP coalition, it was proposed to revise Article 226, which calls for the creation of 26 provinces out of the current 11, in order to allow more time for the transition.\nIn September 2011 the position of \"Minister of Decentralization\" was abolished.\n\nThe provinces of Maniema, Nord-Kivu and Sud-Kivu were not divided into districts. Those three provinces and all other districts were divided into territories. Most provinces also included cities, which were independent of the districts; in turn those were divided into communes.\n\nDistricts and cities, other than the capital city of Kinshasa, and their territories or communes consist of the following:\n\nThe city of Kinshasa is divided into four districts and 24 communes:\n"}
{"id": "54593187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54593187", "title": "Eastern South Asia", "text": "Eastern South Asia\n\nEastern South Asia is a subregion of South Asia. It includes the countries of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India (specifically east India and northeast India), and Nepal. Geographically, it lies between the Eastern Himalayas and the Bay of Bengal. Two of the world's largest rivers, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra, flow into the sea through Eastern South Asia. The region includes the world's highest mountainous terrain and the world's largest delta, and has a climate ranging from alpine and subalpine to subtropical and tropical. Since Nepal, Bhutan, and northeast India are landlocked, the coastlines of Bangladesh and East India serve as the principal gateways to the region.\n\nWith more than 441 million inhabitants, Eastern South Asia is home to 6%of the world's population and 25% of South Asia's population. The Bangladesh Bhutan India Nepal Initiative promotes economic integration in the region. The four countries are members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation. Yunnan Province and the Tibet Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and Myanmar are historically, economically, and culturally interdependent on Eastern South Asia. The Bangladesh–China–India–Myanmar Forum seeks to establish an economic corridor in the region.\n\nEastern South Asia's archaeological heritage includes Lumbini, the birthplace of the Buddha; the ancient universities and monasteries of Nalanda, Vikramshila, Somapura Mahavihara, Jaggadala, and Mainamati; the Ashokan pillars and the Mauryan Empire-era cities of Pataliputra and Mahasthangarh; and the ruined fort cities of Wari-Bateshwar, Bhitagarh, and Chandraketugarh. The region has an important Buddhist Tourist Circuit. Eastern South Asia hosts a large number of medieval and early modern mosques, including Adina Mosque, the subcontinent's largest medieval mosque, and the Sixty Dome Mosque, and large caravansaries such as Bara Katra and Katra Masjid. It is home to several outstanding examples of medieval and early modern Hindu temple architecture, particularly the Newa architecture of Nepal and the architecture of Bengal.\nEastern South Asia is a cradle of South Asian civilization. Historical states in the region include those recorded in Indian epics such as the Mahabharata, including ancient Nepal, Vanga, and Pundra; the Greek and Roman recorded kingdom of Gangaridai; major Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms including Kalinga, Kamarupa, Samatata, the Mauryan, Gupta, Pala, and Sena Empires, the Khadga, Candra, Deva, and Tripura kingdoms, and Cooch Behar State. Major Islamic empires in the region included the Delhi and Bengal Sultanates, and the Suri and Mughal Empires (including the important province of Mughal Bengal). A confederation of Muslim and Hindu aristocrats called the Baro-Bhuyan existed in the late 16th and early 17thcenturies.\n\nThe Bengal Presidency was established in the 18thcentury by the British Empire, with its headquarters in Fort William, in coastal southwestern Bengal. The British made Bengal the center of their Indian empire, during which Bengal became synonymous with India. Until the mid-19th century, the Bengal Presidency's jurisdiction covered British-controlled territories in north India, northeast India, and Southeast Asia. The Governor of Bengal was concurrently the Governor General of India for many years. Fort William's surroundings grew into the port city of Calcutta, which was the capital of India until 1911. After the British Indian Empire was established in 1858 following the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the Bengal Renaissance flourished in Calcutta and other Bengali urban centers. The Indian independence movement, including parts of the movement which created Pakistan, had its origins in the Bengal Presidency. The Parliament of Bengal, including the Bengal Legislative Council and the Bengal Legislative Assembly, was the oldest and largest in British India.\n\nThe Bengal Presidency had the highest gross domestic product in British India.\n\nCiting administrative improvement and affirmative action for Bengali Muslims and non-Bengali communities in colonial Assam, the British government enacted the first partition of Bengal in 1905. The new province of Eastern Bengal and Assam, with its own Legislative Council, saw more investments in education and infrastructure. The province was a center of the petroleum, tea, and jute industries. Its capital was Dacca, with a summer capital at Shillong. The summer capital enjoyed the highest per capita income in British India. The All India Muslim League was formed in Dacca to safeguard the interests of British Indian Muslims. But the first partition sparked strong protests from elites in Calcutta and sections of the landed gentry, particularly Bengali Hindus. The protests caused a pan-Indian political crisis. In 1912, East Bengal was reunited with West Bengal as Bengal Province while Assam was separated as Assam Province.\n\nThe first partition left a strong legacy. Decades later in the 1940s, when Hindu–Muslim relations deteriorated, the British government again partitioned Bengal into East Bengal and West Bengal as part of the Partition of British India. East Bengal was made part of the Muslim-majority Dominion of Pakistan and West Bengal a part of the Hindu-majority Dominion of India. East Bengal was later renamed East Pakistan in 1955. In 1971, East Pakistan seceded in the Bangladesh Liberation War, which established the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The constitution of Bangladesh established a multiparty parliamentary democracy in 1972. The country endured several military coups in the late 1970s and 1980s. Islam is the state religion of Bangladesh. In the Indian state of West Bengal, the Communist Party of India governed for three decades.\n\nThe Eastern Himalayas has been home to three independent kingdoms since the 17thcentury, including the Kingdom of Bhutan, the Kingdom of Sikkim, and the Kingdom of Nepal. The Himalayan kingdoms served as buffer states between Imperial China and India. In the 19thcentury, Nepal, Sikkim, and Bhutan became protectorates of British India. The Anglo-Nepal Treaty of 1923 recognized Nepal's sovereignty. The treaty was recorded in the League of Nations. Bhutan's relations with British India were managed under the Treaty of Punakha of 1910. Sikkim's relations with British India were managed under the Treaty of Titalia of 1817 and the Treaty of Tumlong of 1861.\n\nAfter India became independent, it signed a treaty with Bhutan in 1949, and, in 1950, a treaty with Nepal and a treaty with Sikkim. The Incorporation of Tibet into the People's Republic of China, particularly after the 1959 Tibetan uprising, caused an exodus of Tibetan refugees into Northern and Eastern South Asia, including into Nepal and Bhutan. Refugees included the spiritual Tibetan head of state, the Dalai Lama, who established the Tibetan government in exile in India. The CIA Tibetan program in Nepal trained Tibetan refugees for guerrilla war against the PRC. Following the Tibetan crisis, India and the PRC engaged in a brief border war in 1962 over the disputed McMahon Line and Aksai Chin areas. In 1975, the Indian annexation of Sikkim was strongly opposed by China.\n\nNepal's first period of parliamentary democracy lasted from 1950 to 1960. The King of Nepal imposed the panchayat system in the 1960s and 1970s. A mass uprising pressured the King of Nepal to restore democracy in 1990. The Nepalese Civil War began in 1992.\n\nBhutan joined the United Nations in 1971. Bhutan was the first country to recognize the independence of Bangladesh.\n\nColonial Assam was reorganized by the Indian government into the Seven Sister States of northeast India, including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura. Insurgency in Northeast India has been a security challenge for the Indian government. Since 1958, the Armed Forces Special Powers Act has been imposed in the region. The law has been described as perpetuating indirect military rule. There have been many allegations of human rights abuses in northeast India.\n\nIn 2003, China acknowledged Sikkim as a part of India while India recognized Tibet as part of China. The Dalai Lama has often asserted that Tibet should be given meaningful autonomy within China, not independence. In 2005, the King of Nepal imposed direct rule, which led to the monarchy's overthrow, the end of the civil war, and the creation of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal in 2008. Bhutan held its first general election in 2008.\n\nIn 2011, India granted duty-free access to most Bangladeshi products. In 2012, India affirmed in principle to allow Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal to transit its territory for trade movement. In 2014, Bangladesh and India resolved their maritime boundary dispute at a UN tribunal. In 2015, India and Bangladesh signed a land boundary agreement to resolve border disputes. In 2014 Bangladesh and Bhutan signed a trade agreement in which Bhutan gained duty-free access for 90products in the Bangladeshi market. Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Bhutan signed a regional motor vehicle agreement in 2015.\n\nThe four countries have agreed to develop hydropower in the Himalayas. Bhutan and India have developed two hydropower projects, as of 2017.\n\nNepal has been a key participant in the Chinese One Belt, One Road initiative, which seeks to revive the historical Silk Road between South Asia and Tibet.\n\nThe rapid development of the Chinese economy has caused increased trade and economic activity between China and Eastern South Asia. China is the largest trading partner of India, Bangladesh, and Nepal while Hong Kong is one of Bhutan's chief trading partners. The Indian economy has emerged as one of the world's fastest-growing economies although its eastern and northeastern states have had lower economic growth than northern, western, or southern India. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Bangladeshi economy was the world's second-fastest-growing major economy in 2016, but the country faces challenges of political instability and infrastructure shortages.\n\nThe 2017 China India border standoff developed on the Doklam plateau, located on the tri-nation border between Bhutan, Indian Sikkim, and Chinese Tibet.\n\nThe geography of Bangladesh is varied and has an area characterised by three distinct features: a broad deltaic plain subject to frequent flooding, elevated forested plateaus, and a small hilly region crossed by swiftly flowing rivers. The country has an area of and extends north to south and east to west. Bangladesh is bordered on the west, north, and east by a land frontier with India and, in the southeast, by a short land and water frontier ( with Burma (Myanmar). On the south is a highly irregular deltaic coastline of about , containing many parallel rivers and streams flowing into the Bay of Bengal. The territorial waters of Bangladesh extend , and the exclusive economic zone of the country is . Bangladesh has a tropical monsoon climate.\n\nThe Sundarbans in Bangladesh, which is shared with India, is a UNESCO world heritage site. Cox's Bazar Beach is one of the world's longest beaches.\n\nBhutan is roughly the size of Switzerland. It is located on the southern slopes of the eastern Himalayas, landlocked between the Tibet Autonomous Region to the north and the Indian states of Sikkim, West Bengal, Assam, and Arunachal Pradesh to the west and south. The land consists mostly of steep and high mountains crisscrossed by a network of swift rivers, which form deep valleys before draining into the Indian plains. Elevation rises from in the southern foothills to more than . The highest peak in Bhutan is Gangkhar Puensum at .\n\nThe climate in Bhutan varies with elevation, from subtropical in the south to temperate in central areas and alpine in the north, with year-round snow in the north. Western Bhutan has the heavier monsoon rains; southern Bhutan has hot humid summers and cool winters.\n\nThe bulk of the East India region lies on the Indo-Gangetic plain, with a coastline on the Bay of Bengal. It includes the states of West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Odisha. The region is bounded by Nepal, Sikkim, and Bhutan in the north, Bangladesh in the east, the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on the west, and the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh in the south. It is connected to the Seven Sister States of Northeast India by the narrow Siliguri Corridor. West Bengal is on the eastern bottleneck of India, stretching from the Himalayas in the north, to the Bay of Bengal in the south. The region lies in the humid-subtropical zone.\n\nThe landlocked region of Northeast India includes the states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, and Tripura. It has land borders with China, Myanmar, Bhutan, and Bangladesh. The region is usually categorised into the Eastern Himalaya and the Brahmaputra and the Barak valley plains. Northeast India has a predominantly humid sub-tropical climate with hot, humid summers, severe monsoons, and mild winters. The region is covered by the mighty Brahmaputra–Barak river systems and their tributaries. Geographically, apart from the Brahmaputra, Barak, and Imphal valleys and some flat lands in between the hills of Meghalaya and Tripura, the remaining two-thirds of the area is hilly terrain interspersed with valleys and plains; the altitude varies from almost sea level to over above mean sea level. The region's high rainfall, averaging around and above, creates problems of ecosystem, high seismic activity, and floods. The states of Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have a montane climate with cold, snowy winters and mild summers.\n\nNepal is the world's 93rd largest country. Nepal is commonly divided into three physiographic areas: mountain, hill, and southern lowland plains (the \"Terai\"). These ecological belts run east–west and are vertically intersected by Nepal's major, north to south-flowing river system. The southern lowland plains bordering India are part of the northern rim of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The Hill Region (Pahad) abuts the mountains and varies from in altitude with progression from subtropical climates below to alpine climates above . The Lower Himalayan Range reaching is the southern limit of this region, with subtropical river valleys and \"hills\" alternating to the north of this range. The Mountain Region (Himal), situated in the Great Himalayan Range, makes up the northern part of Nepal. It contains the highest elevations in the world, including eight of the ten highest mountains.\n\nThe climate of Nepal includes subtropical, temperate, subalpine and alpine zones.\n\nBangladesh is the world's eighth most populous country, with a population of more than 160million. Bengalis are the largest ethnic group, with Bengali Muslim a majority, followed by Bengali Hindus, Bengali Buddhists, and Bengali Christians. The country has a significant Urdu-speaking minority and numerous minority indigenous ethnic groups. The Bengali language is the official language. Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, Sylhet, and Rajshahi are among the country's largest cities and towns. Bangladesh's life expectancy is ranked third in South Asia.\n\nBhutan has the second-smallest population in South Asia after the Maldives. Bhutan's three main ethnic groups are the Ngalop, Sharchop, and Lhotshampa. The state religion is Buddhism. The official language is Dzongkha. Bhutan has a significant Nepali-speaking minority. Thimphu and Phuntsholing are the largest cities.\n\nWith an estimated population of 226million, East India has a multi-lingual and multi-ethnic Indo-Aryan population. Kolkata, Patna, Asansol, Durgapur, Bhubaneshwar, Siliguri and Darjeeling are among the area's largest cities. Northeast India has a population of 45million. It has a multi-ethnic Tibeto-Burman population, except in Bengali-majority Tripura. Guwahati, Agartala, Shillong, Imphal, Aizawl, and Gangtok are the major towns and cities. Hindi and English are the federal official languages of India while most states also have their own official language.\n\nNepal has a population of 25 million, which is the world's 41st largest. Nepal is a multiethnic Himalayan nation with Nepali as the official language.\n\nListed as one of the Next Eleven, the economy of Bangladesh ranks 46th in terms of nominal gross domestic product (GDP) and 29th in terms of purchasing power parity (PPP). In the fiscal year 2015–2016, Bangladesh registered exports worth US$37.61 billion and imports worth US$40.69 billion. Its major trading partners include the European Union, the United States, China, India, Japan, Australia, Malaysia, and Singapore. The Port of Chittagong is Bangladesh's busiest port, as well as the busiest in Eastern South Asia. Bangladesh's chief export is textiles. It is the world's second-largest textile exporter after China. It is largely self-sufficient in pharmaceuticals, shipbuilding, steel rods, ceramics, glass, food, and numerous other sectors. Bangladesh has significant natural gas, limestone, and coal reserves. The jute trade has been historically important. Bangladesh's financial sector is one of the largest in South Asia along with those of India and Pakistan. The Dhaka Stock Exchange and Chittagong Stock Exchange are its principal capital markets.\n\nBangladesh has the second-largest foreign exchange reserves in South Asia. Its credit rating is also the second-best in the region after India.\n\nThe Nepal Bangladesh Bank was set up by Bangladesh's IFIC Bank in neighboring Nepal.\n\nThe economy of Bhutan is notable for its hydropower, ferroalloys, apples, red rice, construction materials, and tourism sectors. Bhutan's main trading partners are India, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, and South Korea. Phuntsholing is Bhutan's financial center. The Royal Securities Exchange of Bhutan is the main stock exchange. The Bank of Bhutan and the Bhutan National Bank are the largest financial institutions. The SAARC Development Fund is based in Thimphu.\n\nBhutan ranks first in economic freedom and ease of doing business, is second in per capita income, and is the least corrupt country in South Asia.\n\nEast India's Jharkhand and Odisha states have rich mineral deposits. East India is also notable for Darjeeling tea. Northeast India has one of the world's oldest petroleum and tea industries. Tourism is also important for the region's economy. Kolkata is the principal financial center of eastern and northeastern India, being home to the Calcutta Stock Exchange. The Port of Kolkata is the region's principal gateway and is also used by Nepal and Bhutan. The port of Haldia is a hub of heavy industry. The Guwahati Tea Auction Centre is important for the region's tea industry. Jute is a major crop, as in neighboring Bangladesh.\n\nA cross-border conveyor belt carries limestone from mines in Meghalaya, India, to Sylhet Division, Bangladesh, to supply a Lafarge cement plant.\n\nWhile Kathmandu is Nepal's main commercial center, most of the country's industries are located along the southern border with India. The economy of Nepal relies heavily on tourism, agriculture, food processing, metal production, remittances, carpet making, and textile manufacturing. Nepal's principal trading partners are India, the United States, and China. Binod Chaudhary is Nepal's sole \"Forbes\"-listed billionaire.\n\nThe taka introduced by Muslims is the historical currency of Bengal, Nepal, and Tibet. Arab and Persian traders frequented the region for centuries. One branch of the ancient Silk Road ran between Tibet, Sikkim, Nepal, Bhutan, and Bengal. The Lhasa Newar merchants were active on the trade route until the Chinese takeover of Tibet in the 1950s. The Kathmandu Valley's early prosperity was due to these merchants. Another branch of the Silk Road connected Bengal with China through Burma and Yunnan. This route is also known as the Tea Horse Road. The Grand Trunk Road has its eastern terminus in Bengal. The seaports of Bengal were part of Indian Ocean trade networks with Africa and East Asia. In the 15thcentury, the Sultan of Bengal shipped a giraffe from Somalia and sent it to China as a gift for the Ming emperor. In the 17thcentury, Mughal Bengal generated 50% of India's GDP due to its worldwide muslin and silk exports. The Portuguese were the first Europeans to establish trading posts in the region. By the 18thcentury, Bengal attracted Dutch, French, Armenian, Danish, Greek, and British traders.\n\nBangladesh is a unitary state and a parliamentary republic. The Jatiyo Sangshad is its unicameral legislature. The President of Bangladesh is the ceremonial head of state, and the Prime Minister of Bangladesh is the head of government. The legal system of Bangladesh is based on English common law and Muslim, Hindu, and Christian personal religious laws. The Supreme Court of Bangladesh has wide powers for judicial review. Fundamental rights are enshrined in the country's constitution, but the human rights situation faces challenges. Bangladesh ranks first in gender equality in South Asia.\n\nBhutan is a constitutional monarchy headed by the King of Bhutan. Bhutan is a parliamentary democracy, with an elected bicameral legislature. The Prime Minister of Bhutan is the head of government. The legal system of Bhutan is a mixture of the semi-theocratic Tsa Yig code and English common law influences. Capital punishment was abolished in Bhutan in 2004.\n\nIndia is a federal parliamentary republic. While the Indian federal government is headed by the ceremonial President of India and executive Prime Minister of India, the states of India are headed by a ceremonial governor and executive chief minister. Indian legislatures include the bicameral national parliament and numerous unicameral and bicameral state legislatures. The federal government can impose President's rule in the states. Indian states are not permitted to develop relations with foreign countries, including neighboring countries within Eastern South Asia unless it is strictly overseen by the heavily bureaucratic federal government. The Indian legal system is a mixture of English common law, civil law, custom laws, and religious laws. The Supreme Court of India has a notable history of judicial activism. Fundamental rights are enshrined in India's constitution.\n\nDespite India's democratic framework, much of northeast India is under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, which has been described as \"draconian\". Human rights abuses in Manipur have been a challenge.\n\nNepal is a federal republic. The President of Nepal is the head of state. The Prime Minister of Nepal's role as head of government has been in place for over a century. Nepal has a bicameral parliament. The country continues to transition from a monarchy to a republic. Nepal's legal system is historically based on Hindu law but has incorporated influences from English law and other legal systems since modernization began in the country in the 1950s. Nepal has seen secularization since the republic was proclaimed in 2008. Capital punishment has been abolished. Nepal ranked 63rd on the 2016 Rule of Law Index compiled by the World Justice Project, which was higher than India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.\n\nThe Bangladesh Armed Forces are the third-largest in South Asia and include the Bangladesh Army, Bangladesh Navy, and Bangladesh Air Force. Bangladesh is a leading contributor of UN peacekeeping forces. Bangladesh's main defense partners are the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, and China. Bangladesh's military was responsible for several coups in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe Royal Bhutan Army is Bhutan's principal defense force. It has an extensive partnership with the armed forces of neighboring India that includes training and logistics. The Royal Bhutan Army is responsible for monitoring Bhutan's disputed northern border with China.\n\nThe Indian Eastern Command is responsible for the country's security interests in the Eastern South Asia region.\n\nThe Indian Armed Forces is the world's third-largest military force. It includes the Indian Army, Indian Navy, and Indian Air Force. The Indian military is the foremost regional military in South Asia. India is a declared nuclear weapons state. India's main defense suppliers include Russia, the United States, and Israel.\n\nThe Nepal Army is responsible for landlocked Nepal's national security. It includes the Nepalese Army Air Service. Nepal's military has historically enjoyed a close association with the British armed forces due to the recruitment of Gurkhas. Nepal is a consistent contributor to UN peacekeeping operations.\n\nIn 2015, the BBIN countries signed an agreement to allow their vehicles (carrying both cargo and passengers) to travel between the countries with an electronic permit. Once implemented, the agreement is expected to replace transshipment costs with cheaper direct transit. However, its implementation has been forestalled by the failure of Bhutan's upper house to ratify the agreement, even though Bangladesh, India and Nepal have ratified. Bhutanese opponents argue that allowing foreign vehicles within the country would pollute its natural environment. In 2018, it was reported that Bangladesh, India and Nepal could move forward with implementation without Bhutan.\n\nPrior to the partition of British India, a regime of freedom of trade and transport existed in the region, including free ports in Calcutta, Narayanganj and Chittagong. The Eastern Bengal Railway and Assam Bengal Railway were vital transport arteries. Cross border transport continued after partition of Bengal in 1947. In 1963, an agreement between Nepal and Pakistan allowed free trade and transit through the port of Chittagong in East Pakistan. However, cross border railway, bus and water transport became indefinitely suspended after the Indo-Pakistan War of 1965. After the independence of East Pakistan, Nepal signed a Transit Agreement with Bangladesh in 1976, even though cross border transport through India remained suspended since 1965.\n\nIn 2010, a Joint Declaration by the Prime Ministers of Bangladesh and India pledged to establish a transit regime for landlocked Northeast India, Nepal and Bhutan through Bangladeshi territory. The proposed transit is focused on international seaports in Chittagong and Mongla, as well as the Bangladesh Railway and inland waterways. In 2016, the prime ministers of Nepal and India agreed in principle on the prospect of freedom of transit. In 2017, a joint statement by the prime ministers of Bangladesh and Bhutan also affirmed the principle of freedom of transit.\n\nIn 2016, the first Indian ship made transit through Bangladesh while traveling between West Bengal and Tripura. The Port of Ashuganj was officially declared a port of call.\n\nIn 2017, the World Bank announced a US$150 million financing agreement for improving infrastructure to develop a transit regime.\n\nThe International Road Transport Union has called for a singular customs system in the region.\n\nNortheast Indian states import internet bandwidth by using the Bangladeshi submarine cable in the Bay of Bengal. Bangladesh also plans to export internet bandwidth to Bhutan. Nepal imports internet bandwidth from both India and China.\n\nBhutan exports electricity to India from four major hydroelectric facilities. Bhutan, Nepal and India plan to export electricity to Bangladesh.\n\nIndia enjoys a visa free travel regime with Nepal and Bhutan. Bangladesh enjoys a visa free regime with Bhutan and its citizens get a visa on arrival in Nepal. However, visa requirements still exist between India and Bangladesh and between Nepal and Bhutan.\n\nThere are numerous transboundary rivers in the region, which has been a cause of water sharing disputes. Bangladesh and India share 54 transboundary rivers, but they do not have a comprehensive river management treaty. There has also been criticism of India's existing water sharing and hydropower agreements with Nepal and Bhutan. Bangladesh and India are also concerned by Chinese efforts to dam the Brahmaputra River.\n\n"}
{"id": "58877786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58877786", "title": "Geology of Kuwait", "text": "Geology of Kuwait\n\nThe geology of Kuwait includes extremely thick, oil and gas-bearing sedimentary sequences from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic. Kuwait is a country in Western Asia, situated in the northern edge of Eastern Arabia at the tip of the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe oldest crystalline basement rocks beneath Kuwait are poorly understood due to the thickness of overlying sedimentary rocks. In the early 1960s, a 13,853 foot deep well in the Burgan oil field only reached rocks dating to the Triassic including clay, marl, limestone, shale and anhydrite. This is overlain by 4500 feet of Jurassic rocks, primarily limestone but with 1300 feet of anhydrite, likely related to the Hith Anhydrite in Saudi Arabia. Cretaceous rocks are up to 6000 feet thick in the southeast or 10,000 feet in the northwest, predominantly limestone, shale and sandstone belonging to the Zubair Formation and Burgan Formation. \nCenozoic rocks nearer the surface are well researched. Rocks 3500 to 2500 feet thick date to Paleocene and Eocene, with primarily limestone and Rus Formation evaporite. The Kuwait Group outcrops in the southeast with clay sandstone. Wara and Burgan have hills capped with weathered sandstone and chert. In fact, chert limestone is up to two feet thick at Gurain hill. Together, these rocks formed during the Pliocene, Miocene and Pleistocene. \n\nThe Ghar Formation is identifiable in the Jal-Az-Zor escarpment with coarse-grained or pebbly sandstone and green clay beds from the Oligocene and Miocene. \n\nThe country has extensive Quaternary deposits such as beach sands welded together with calcium carbonate, deltaic and tidal mudflats at Bubiyan Island and in the northeast as well as windblown sand. The Dibdibba Formation from the Miocene to the Pleistocene overlies the fossil bearing Lower Fars Formation with gypsum bearing sandy clay beds and coarse igneous and metamorphic gravels. \n"}
{"id": "58911599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58911599", "title": "Geology of Tajikistan", "text": "Geology of Tajikistan\n\nThe geology of Tajikistan encompasses a nearly 90 percent mountainous landscape. The Tajik Depression in the west is the only lowland in the entire country. The Trans-Altai Mountains are a continuation on the Tien Shan Mountains into the east. By contrast, the Pamir Mountains are a high-altitude plateau region more six kilometers above sea level, extending 400 kilometers by 225 kilometers. The Pamir Mountains are tectonic belts, joined by suture features and trending from Paleozoic age rocks in the north to Cenozoic age rocks in the south.\n\nThe Tajik Depression holds sedimentary rocks up to six kilometers thick, including 700 meters of Jurassic salt, overlain by one kilometer thick Cretaceous quartzose sediments and a two kilometer sequence of Cretaceous to Oligocene carbonates, evaporites and shales. Fold and thrusts have deformed all the Tajik Depression rocks above the Jurassic salts. Tajikistan is highly seismically active, due to continued uplift, deformation and the underthrusting of the Eurasian continental crust 300 kilometers beneath the Pamir Mountains. \n"}
{"id": "13746396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746396", "title": "George Jobberns", "text": "George Jobberns\n\nGeorge Jobberns (2 June 1895 – 30 August 1974) was a New Zealand geographer and educator.\n\nBorn in 1895 at Te Moana near Geraldine in the foothills of South Canterbury, New Zealand, Jobberns taught the first Geography I course at Canterbury University College in 1934. In 1937 he was appointed lecturer-in-charge of the first independent Department of Geography in New Zealand and in 1942 was elected to the first chair of Geography in New Zealand. On his retirement in May 1960, he was made Professor emeritus of the University of Canterbury. He died in Christchurch on 30 August 1974, at 79 years. \n\nThe Jobberns room at the Department of Geography was opened on 9 April 1976 by Vice Chancellor Professor N. C. Phillips to commemorate George Jobberns and his significant contributions to the subject of Geography in NZ.\n"}
{"id": "1822951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1822951", "title": "Girdling", "text": "Girdling\n\nGirdling, also called ring-barking is the complete removal of a strip of bark (consisting of cork cambium or \"phellogen\", phloem, cambium and sometimes going into the xylem) from around the entire circumference of either a branch or trunk of a woody plant. Girdling results in the death of the area above the girdle over time. A branch completely girdled will fail and when the main trunk of a tree is girdled, the entire tree will die, if it cannot regrow from above to bridge the wound. Among the causes of girdling are human practices, including forestry, horticulture, and vandalism. Foresters use the practice of girdling to thin forests. Girdling can also be caused by herbivorous mammals feeding on plant bark and by birds and insects, both of which can effectively girdle a tree by boring rows of adjacent holes.\n\nOrchardists use girdling as a cultural technique to yield larger fruit or set fruit, often called cincturing used in agriculture. Only the layer just under the bark is removed for this technique.\n\nLike all vascular plants, trees use two vascular tissues for transportation of water and nutrients: the xylem (also known as the wood) and the phloem (the innermost layer of the bark). Girdling results in the removal of the phloem, and death occurs from the inability of the leaves to transport sugars (primarily sucrose) to the roots. In this process, the xylem is left untouched, and the tree can usually still temporarily transport water and minerals from the roots to the leaves. Trees normally sprout shoots below the wound; if not, the roots die. Death occurs when the roots can no longer produce ATP and transport nutrients upwards through the xylem. (The formation of new shoots below the wound can be prevented by painting the wound with herbicide.)\n\nRing barking techniques have been developed to disrupt or impede sugar transport in phloem, stimulating early flower production and increasing fruiting, and for controlling plant size, reducing the need for pruning.\nGirdling is a slow process compared to felling and is often used only when necessary, such as in the removal of an individual tree from an ecologically protected area without damaging surrounding growth.\n\nAccidental girdling is also possible and some activities must be performed with care. Saplings which are tied to a supporting stake may be girdled as they grow, due to friction caused by contact with the tie. If ropes are tied frequently to a tree (e.g. to tether an animal or moor a boat), the friction of the rope can also lead to the removal of bark.\n\nThe practice of girdling has been known in Europe for some time. Another example is the girdling of selective Douglas-fir trees in some Northern California oak woodlands, such as Annadel State Park, in order to prevent that fir from massive invasion of the mixed oak woodland.\n\nGirdling can be used to create standing dead wood, or snags. This can provide a valuable habitat for a variety of wildlife, including insects and nesting birds.\n\nGirdling is also used as a technique to force a fruit-bearing plant to bear larger fruit. A farmer would place a girdle (bark removal) at base of a large branch or at the trunk. Thus, all sugars manufactured by the leaves have no sinks but the fruit, which grows to above the normal size. For grapes girdling or cincturing is used to make the grapes large and sweeter on the grape canopy and are sold as girdled grapes. Flowering and fruit setting is a problem on some trees; girdling may improve yield in the same way. The \"damage\" done by girdling restricts the movement of nutrients to the roots, thus the carbohydrates produced in the leaves do not go to the roots for storage. Girdling temporarily stops tree growth. Root pruning, an ancient Asian practice, and other controlled damaging, such as driving nails into the trunk or beating the branches and trunk, produce results that are similar to girdling. Girdling is commonly used on grape, avocado, apple, litchi, mango, citrus and other trees. Girdling is normally only done to healthy trees that did not yield well the previous year. Care must be used not to damage sapwood that may kill the tree or vine. Trees normally heal in four to five weeks after cincturing. Painting the cut can protect against fungus and pests.\n\nBoth herbivores and birds can effectively girdle trees in the process of normal feeding.\n\nIn North America, voles in particular are prone to damaging trees by girdling both their roots and trunk. Among North American birds, the sapsuckers are the most common girdlers of trees. While sapsuckers will bore holes in tree trunks to feed upon insects, they also make parallel rings of holes in order to eat sap that collects in the openings or to feed it to their young. They most frequently attack pine, birch, maple, spruce and fruit trees and do the most damage during breeding season and territory establishment between February and June.\n\nThe feeding activity of beavers are a major source of girdled trees near water sources.\n\nMany kinds of deer inadvertently girdle trees by rubbing their antlers on saplings and mature trees.\n\nOne of several ways rabbits damage the environment in Australia is by girdling.\n\nTrees can be girdled by climbing, twining, and ground-creeping (rampant) vines. There are several invasive species that harm trees in this way and cause significant damage to forest canopy and the health of ecosystems dependent on it. Oriental Bittersweet, Oriental Wisteria, and English Ivy all can damage and kill trees by girdling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24782158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24782158", "title": "Global Environmental Institute", "text": "Global Environmental Institute\n\nThe GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTE (GEI) was founded in the U.S. in 2003 and was registered as an independent non-profit organization in the State of Delaware. GEI's mission was to design and implement market-based models for solving environmental problems in order to achieve development that is economically, ecologically, and socially sustainable. GEI was dissolved in October 2011. GEI's sister organization, the independent Beijing Chaoyang District Sustainable Global Environmental Institute in China (GEI-China) remains active.\n\nGEI-China is an independent Chinese environmental non-profit, non-governmental organization and think tank that was established in Beijing, China in 2004. GEI-China shares GEI's mission to design and implement market-based models for solving environmental problems in order to achieve development that is economically, ecologically, and socially sustainable.\n\nGEI-China was founded on these principles and specifically aims to:\n\n\nGEI-China has worked extensively in the fields of rural energy, biodiversity conservation, energy efficiency in industry and environmental governance in China. In particular, it has made significant headway in spurring on unofficial, bilateral talks on climate change between the United States and China (please see page 3 of the latter reference). Moreover, it has paved the way for enforcing good environmental behavior by Chinese banks as well as enterprises operating overseas, and has worked to enhance land management policies in other developing countries.\n\nGEI-China is one of a small number of NGOs based in China, and works closely with a number of important government and academic institutions in China (including the Ministry of Environmental Protection, State Forestry Administration, Tibet Development Fund and Tsinghua University).\n\nGEI-China's work falls into four main program areas: Sustainable Rural Development, Biodiversity Conservation, Energy and Climate Change and Environmental Governance.\n\nGEI-China's Sustainable Rural Development program works to incorporate successful commercial models to the development of rural communities. In particular, its projects focus clean renewable energy at the household and village level (e.g. biogas, solar cookers) as well as organic farming and rural finance. Project sites include Lijiang, Yunnan Province, the Tibet Autonomous Region and Chebaling Nature Reserve in Guangdong Province (with UNESCO) in China, as well as five provinces in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe Biodiversity Conservation program at GEI-China works to spur economic development of communities living near the buffer zones of nature reserves and promoting financial models that resolve conflicts between biodiversity conservation and local economic development. GEI has worked closely with county and provincial level governments to promote the Conservation Incentive Agreements model in the Fengtongzhai Nature Reserve in Baoxing County, Sichuan Province. In addition, the program team has worked with the Chinese government and Chinese timber enterprises in the publication and promotion of the \"Guidelines on Sustainable Overseas Silviculture by Chinese Enterprises\" (see below).\n\nGEI-China's Energy and Climate Change program works towards the development of clean energy and energy efficient enterprises through market-oriented solutions. Its work in this area has included the promotion of energy service companies (ESCos) and capacity building for Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects in China, particularly in the cement industry for energy efficiency retro-fitting. \nGEI-China has also provided training subsidium for Chinese enterprises under their Eco-Entrepreneurship Training Project.\n\nThe use of energy efficiency in China's metallurgy industry and models for the bulk procurement of energy efficient products and technology has also been actively encouraged in selected Chinese cities. In addition, GEI has worked closely with Chinese and US government institutions to promote unofficial dialogue and cooperation on climate change (see article below).\n\nFinally, GEI-China's Environmental Governance program works to provide capacity building on sustainable development for China's high-level decision makers, and to this effect it has worked closely with China's Central Communist Party School. The team also works to improve the environmental behavior of Chinese enterprises operating overseas through application of environmental tools such as Environmental Impact Assessment and payment for ecosystem services. In addition, it works closely with host countries to strengthen environmental policy. GEI is currently working with the Lao National Land Management Authority to strengthen its land management law and enforcement.\n\nDuring the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference, Madame Jiaman Jin, Executive Director of GEI-China, said that GEI will continue to follow the climate action framework set up by the Center for Climate Strategies, placing greater emphasis on the provincial and city prefecture level in China. In addition, GEI-China will actively facilitate South-South collaboration on rural energy, particularly on technologies like biogas, solar energy and energy efficient stoves.\n\nThrough the years, GEI-China has worked to develop local capacity, both by supporting and incubating new NGOs and training current and future government leaders through an environmental curriculum at the Central Party School of the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nGEI-China has worked with a number of enterprises, government agencies and NGOs in implementing its projects. These include:\nNational Development and Reform Commission (China)\nMinistry of Environmental Protection (China)\nState Forestry Administration (China)\nBlue Moon Fund\nCarnegie Endowment for International Peace\nRockefeller Brothers Fund\nWorldwatch Institute, with the regular coordination of articles for the China Watch environmental news digest \n\nThe GEI-China Partnership Program assists international NGOs in developing environmental protection efforts in China and provides a platform for Chinese organizations and leaders to interact with and learn from environmental efforts of those outside of China. Some of these programs include:\n\nGEI-China - Innovation Center for Energy and Transportation Partnership\n\nThe Innovation Center for Energy and Transportation (iCET), originally known as Auto Project on Energy and Climate Change, was launched in 2005 and aims to promote clean and energy efficient transportation technology and stringent fuel efficiency and vehicle emission regulations in China. iCET has now become an independent NGO that continues to receive financial and technical consulting from GEI.\n\nGEI-China - Green River Partnership: Three Rivers Migration Study Project\n\nIn 2005, GEI-China and the Green River Environmental Protection Organization of Sichuan Province organized to implement the Three Rivers Migration Study. This partnership aims to facilitate public understanding of the regions changes, monitor government action and to develop information and recommendations to help the government improve its migration policy.\n\nGEI-Americas (GEI-A) constituted the Americas-based program operations of GEI. GEI-A helped local entrepreneurs in emerging countries such as Brazil, China, and Peru develop sustainable enterprises that built on American entrepreneurial values and rewarded the conservation of rural ecosystems rich in biological diversity while leveraging economic transformations that open pathways for improvements in livelihoods for rural communities local to these regions.\n\nComments on China's Policies and Actions Addressing Climate Change\nGuidelines on Sustainable Overseas Silviculture by Chinese Enterprises\n\nChina and U.S. Seek a Truce on Greenhouse Gases\nHow NGOs Can Help Chinese Firms do Better Overseas\n\nGreen rules eye Chinese firms abroad\n\n"}
{"id": "2021741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021741", "title": "Hypsometry", "text": "Hypsometry\n\nHypsometry (from Greek ὕψος, \"hupsos\", \"height\" and μέτρον, \"metron\", \"measure\") is the measurement of land elevation relative to sea level. Bathymetry is the underwater equivalent. A hypsometer is an instrument used in hypsometry, which estimates the elevation by boiling water – water boils at different temperatures depending on the air pressure, and thus altitude.\n\nOn Earth, the elevations can take on either positive or negative (below sea level) values, and are bimodal due to the contrast between the continents and oceans. On other planets within this solar system, elevations are typically unimodal, owing to the lack of oceans on those bodies.\n"}
{"id": "232319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232319", "title": "Index of Egypt-related articles", "text": "Index of Egypt-related articles\n\nArticles related to Egypt include:\n\nFirst Dynasty of Egypt through the Achaemenid Empire (Thirty-first Dynasty of Egypt)\n\nAaru - Ababda - Abaza Family - Abbas I of Egypt - Abbas II of Egypt - Abbasid Caliphate - Fifi Abdou - Pope Abraham of Alexandria - Abu Gorab - Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades - Abu Qir - Abu Qir Bay - Abu Simbel - Abusir - Abydos, Egypt - Abyssinian (cat) - Achaemenid Empire - Adze - Aegyptus - Africa - African Union - Muhammad Ahmad - Ahmes - Queen Ahmose - Ahmose-Nefertari - Ahmose, son of Ebana - Aker (god) - Akhenaten - Akhnaten (opera) - Al-Ahram - Al-Azhar University - Alexander the Great - Alexander Helios - Alexandria - Alexandria Regional Center for Women's Health and Development - Alexandrian text-type - Mohamed Al-Fayed - Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya - Alhazen - Hassan Allam - Al-Qurn - Amarna - Amarna art - Amarna letters - Amasis II - Ambrose of Alexandria - Amduat - Ammit - Ammon - Amr Diab - Amr Moussa - Amun - Amunet - 'Anat in Egypt - Ancient Egypt - Ancient Egyptian astronomy - Ancient Egyptian funerary texts - Ancient Egyptian royal titulary - Ancient Egyptian medicine - Ancient Egyptian religion - Ancient Near East - Andjety - Ankh -Ankhesenamen - Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit - Ankt - Anti (mythology) - Mark Antony - \"Antony and Cleopatra\" - Anubis - Anuket - Apep - Apis (Egyptian mythology) - Apries - ArabDev - Arish - Arsinoe (Gulf of Suez) - Arsinoe I of Egypt - Arsinoe II of Egypt - Arsinoe III of Egypt - Arsinoe IV of Egypt - Arsinoe of Macedonia - Ash (god) - Astrology in Hellenistic Egypt - Aswan - Aswan Dam - Asyut - Aten - Atenism - Athanasius of Alexandria - Atum - Avaris\n\nBabi (mythology) - Badari - Baggush Box - Bahariya Oasis - Bakenranef - Ba-Pef - Sidi Barrani - Bastet (mythology) - Bat (goddess) - Bata (god) - Battle of Actium - Battle of Alexandria - Battle of Kadesh - Battle of Megiddo (15th century BC) - Battle of Navarino - Battle of the Nile - Seuserenre Bebiankh - Bedouin - Benben - Beni Hasan - Bennu - Bent Pyramid - Berenice I of Egypt - Berenice II - Berenice III of Egypt - Bes - Bibliotheca Alexandrina - Bintanath - Block statue (Egyptian) - \"Book of the Dead\" - \"Book of Gates\" - Boundary Stelae of Akhenaten - James Henry Breasted - Brook of Egypt - Bubastis - Buhen - List of burials in the Valley of the Kings - Busiris (Lower Egypt) - Buto\n\nCaesarion - Cairo - Cairo Geniza - Cairo Metro - Cairo Tower - Cambyses II of Persia - Camp David Accords - Canopic jar - Canopus, Egypt - Decree of Canopus - Howard Carter (archaeologist) - Cartouche - Cataracts of the Nile - Youssef Chahine - Jean-François Champollion - Chancellor Bay - Chapelle Rouge - Chariot - Chem - Chensit - Chenti-cheti - \"Children of Gebelawi\" - Cinema of Egypt - Cleitarchus - Clement of Alexandria - \"Cleopatra (1934 film)\" - \"Cleopatra (1963 film)\" - \"Cleopatra (1999 film)\" - Cleopatra I of Egypt - Cleopatra II of Egypt - Cleopatra III of Egypt - Cleopatra IV of Egypt - Cleopatra V of Egypt - Cleopatra VI of Egypt - Cleopatra VII - Cleopatra Selene of Syria - Cleopatra Selene II - Cleopatra Thea - Climate of Egypt - Codex Sinaiticus - Coffin Texts - Colossi of Memnon - Communications in Egypt - Constantin-François Chassebœuf - Conventional Egyptian chronology - Coptic alphabet - Coptic architecture - Coptic art - Coptic Cairo - Coptic language - Coptic literature - Coptic monasticism - Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria - Coptic placenames - Corniche - Corvée - Crocodilopolis - Culture of Egypt - Cusae - Cyrenaica - Cyril of Alexandria\n\nDahshur - François-Paul Brueys d'Aigalliers - Dakhla Oasis - Dalida - Damnatio memoriae - Danaus chrysippus - Darius I of Persia - Darius II of Persia - Darius the Great's Suez Inscriptions - DB320 - Dedun - Deir el-Bahri - Deir el-Medina - Demographics of Egypt - Demotic (Egyptian) - Den (Pharaoh) - Divine Adoratrice of Amun - Djed - Djedefptah - Djedefre - Djediufankh - Djedkare Isesi - Djedptahiufankh - Djehuti - Djer - Djet - Djoser - Pyramid of Djoser - Bernardino Drovetti - Duat - Dudimose\n\nEarl of Carnarvon - Early Dynastic Period of Egypt - Georg Ebers - Ebers Papyrus - Economy of Egypt - Edfu - Eftekasat - Egypt - Egypt–Ethiopia relations - Egypt (Roman province) - \"The Egyptian\" - Egyptian Arabic - Egyptian astrology (disambiguation) - Egyptian astronomy - Egyptian calendar - Egyptian chronology - Egyptian Civil Code - Egyptian cuisine - Egyptian diaspora - Egyptian faience - Egyptian Fourth Dynasty family tree - Egyptian hieroglyphs - Egyptian Islamic Jihad - Egyptian–Israeli Peace Treaty - Egyptian language - Egyptian mathematics - Egyptian Museum - Egyptian numerals - Egyptian pyramids - Egyptian Revival architecture - Egyptian Sand Sea - Egyptian soul - Egyptians - List of Egyptologists - Egyptology - Eighth Dynasty of Egypt - Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt - El Alamein - Mohamed ElBaradei - El Hiba - El Kab - El-Lahun - El-Mahalla El-Kubra - Elephantine - Elephantine papyri - Eleventh Dynasty of Egypt - Embalming - Ennead - Eratosthenes - Esna - Euclid - Exodus - Exodus Decoded - Eye of Horus\n\nFaience - Faiyum - Family tree of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Farafra, Egypt - Farouk of Egypt - Fatimid Caliphate - Dodi Fayed - Fifteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Fifth Dynasty of Egypt - First Battle of El Alamein - First Dynasty of Egypt - First Intermediate Period of Egypt - Foreign relations of Egypt - Four sons of Horus - Fourteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Fourth Dynasty of Ancient Egypt - Fuad I of Egypt - Fuad II of Egypt - Fustat\n\nGamal Abdel Nasser - Gates of Cairo - Geb - Geography of Egypt - Geriatric medicine in Egypt - Gerzeh - Gilukhipa - Giza - Giza Necropolis - God's Wife of Amun - Land of Goshen - Governorates of Egypt - \"Great Hymn to the Aten\" - Great Pyramid of Giza - Great Sphinx of Giza\n\nMamdouh Habib - Hapy - Harsiese A - Harsiese B - Hathor - Hatmehit - Hatshepsut - Hawara - Zahi Hawass - Hedetet - Heqet - Heka (god) - Heliopolis (ancient and modern) - Hemen - Hemiunu - Hemsut - Herakleopolis Magna - Herihor - Hermanubis - Hesat - Hetepheres II - Hieratic - History of ancient Egypt - History of Arab Egypt - History of Egypt - History of Egypt under the Muhammad Ali dynasty - History of modern Egypt - History of Ottoman Egypt - History of Persian Egypt - History of the Middle East - Horemheb - Horus - Soad Hosny - Huh (god) - Huni - Hurghada - Hyksos - Hypatia of Alexandria\n\nSalima Ikram - Imhotep - Imiut fetish - Imyremeshaw - Ineni - Intef I - Intef II - Intef III - Intef VI - Intef VII - Ipuwer Papyrus - Iry-Hor - Isetnofret - Ishara - Isis - Islamic Cairo - Itjtawy - ITWorx - Iunit - Iuput I - Iuput II\n\nJebel Barkal\n\nKa - Karnak - Kashta - Kebechet - Khafra - Pyramid of Khafre - Kharga Oasis - Kemet - Khentkaus II - Khepri - Khnum - Khonsu - Kiya - Kneph - Kohl (cosmetics) - Kom Ombo - Temple of Kom Ombo - Umm Kulthum - Kingdom of Kush - Valley of the Kings - KV1 - KV2 -KV3 - KV4 - KV5 - KV6 - KV7 - KV9 - KV14 - KV17 - KV20 - KV34 - KV35 - KV39 - KV42 - KV43 - KV46 - KV55 - KV60 - KV62\n\nLake Mariout - Lake Nasser - Miles Lampson, 1st Baron Killearn - Land of Goshen - Land of Punt - Late Egyptian - Late Period of ancient Egypt - Leonardo da Vinci Art Institute - Leontopolis - Karl Richard Lepsius - LGBT rights in Egypt (Gay rights) - Library of Alexandria - Libyan Desert - Lisht - List of ancient Egyptian sites - List of cities in Egypt - List of Coptic Orthodox Popes of Alexandria - List of ancient Egyptian dynasties - List of Egyptians - List of Greek Orthodox Patriarchs of Alexandria - List of pharaohs - List of solar deities - Long Range Desert Group - Luxor - Luxor Museum - Luxor Temple\n\nMaahes - Ma'at - Maat Kheru - Mafdet - Naguib Mahfouz - Étienne-Louis Malus - Mamluk - Manetho - Auguste Mariette - Mark the Evangelist - Gaston Maspero - Mastaba - Pope Matthew I of Alexandria - Medinet Habu (location) - Medinet Habu (temple) - Mediterranean Sea - Meidum - Memphis, Egypt - Mendes - Menes - Menhit - Menkaura - Pyramid of Menkaure - Meret - Meretseger - Meritamen - Meritaten - Merneferre Ay - Merneith - Merneptah - Merneptah Stele - Mersa Matruh - Meshwesh - Meskhenet - Middle East - Middle Kingdom of Egypt - Milan Papyrus - Military history of Egypt during World War II - Military of Egypt - Min (god) - Minya, Egypt - Mizraim - Mnewer - Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim - Monthu - Mortuary Temple of Amenhotep III - Moses - Mouled Sidi El-Latini - Mount Sinai - Gamal Mubarak - Hosni Mubarak - Mummification Museum - Mummy - Muslim Brotherhood - Mut - Myth of Osiris and Isis\n\nNabta Playa - Nag Hammadi - Nag Hammadi library - Muhammad Naguib - Mustafa el-Nahhas - Napata - Napoleonic Campaign in Egypt - Naqada - Narmer - Gamal Abdel Nasser - Nebiriau II - Necho I - Necho II - List of necropoleis - Nectanebo I - Nectanebo II - Neferefre - Neferhotep I - Neferhotep III - Neferirkare Kakai - Neferkare, ninth dynasty - Nefertari - Nefertem - Nefertiti - Nehebkau - Neith - Nekhbet - Nekhen - Neper (mythology) - Nephthys - Neter-khertet - New Kingdom - Nile - Nile crocodile - Nile Delta - Nile Level Texts - Nile perch - Nilometer - Nilo-Saharan languages - Nineteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Nineteenth Dynasty of Egypt family tree - Ninth Dynasty of Egypt - Nitocris - Nomarch - Nome (Egypt) - North Africa - Nu (mythology) -Nubia - Nubian languages - Nut (goddess) - Nymphaea - Nymphaea caerulea - Nymphaea lotus - Nynetjer - Nyuserre Ini\n\nObelisk - Richard O'Connor - Ogdoad - Old Kingdom - Old Winter Palace Hotel, Luxor - Opening of the mouth ceremony - Operation Compass - Opet Festival - Origen - Osiris - Osiris-Dionysus - Osorkon the Elder - Osorkon I - Osorkon II - Osorkon III - Osorkon IV - Ostracon - Oxyrhynchus - Oxyrhynchus Gospels - \"Ozymandias\"\n\nPachomius - Pakhet - Palestine - Pami - Pantheon (gods) - Papyrus - Papyrus Harris I - Papyrus of Ani - Tewfik Pasha - Passage of the Red Sea - Pedubast I - Pelusium - Pepi I Meryre - Pepi II Neferkare - Petbe - Pope Peter I of Alexandria - Flinders Petrie - Pharaoh - Philae - Philip III of Macedon - Phoenix (mythology) - Piankh - Pi-hahiroth - Pinedjem I - Piye - Politics of Egypt - Polybus (King of Thebes) - Port Safaga - Port Said - Precinct of Amun-Re - Precinct of Mut - Predynastic Egypt - Princess Fawzia Fuad of Egypt - Protodynastic Period of Egypt - Psammuthes - Psamtik I - Psamtik II - Psamtik III - Pschent - Psusennes I - Psusennes II - Psusennes III - Ptah - Ptahhotep - Ptolemaic dynasty - History of Ptolemaic Egypt - Ptolemy - Ptolemy I Soter - Ptolemy II Philadelphus - Ptolemy III Euergetes - Ptolemy IV Philopator - Decree of Memphis (Ptolemy IV) - Ptolemy V Epiphanes - Ptolemy VI Philometor - Ptolemy VII Neos Philopator - Ptolemy VIII Physcon - Ptolemy IX Lathyros - Ptolemy X Alexander I - Ptolemy XI Alexander II - Ptolemy XII Auletes - Ptolemy XIII Theos Philopator - Ptolemy XIV of Egypt - Land of Punt - Pylon (architecture) - Pyramid - Bent Pyramid - Egyptian pyramids - Pyramid of Djoser - Pyramid of Khafre - Pyramid of Menkaure - Red Pyramid - Step pyramid - Pyramid of Unas - Pyramid Texts - Pyramidion - Pyramidology\n\nQa'a - Qakare Ibi - Qattara Depression - Qetesh - Qubbet el-Hawa - Queen Ahmose - Queen consort - Valley of the Queens - QV44 - QV66\n\nRa - Rahab - Ramesses II - Ramesses III - Ramesses IV - Ramesses V - Ramesses VI - Ramesses VII - Ramesses VIII - Ramesses IX - Ramesses X - Ramesses XI - Ramesseum - Raneb - Ras Muhammad National Park - Red Pyramid - Red Sea - Reformed Egyptian - Relief - Religion in Egypt - Renenutet - Renpet - Renseneb - Resheph - Rhind Mathematical Papyrus - Rhinocorura - River delta - David Rohl - Erwin Rommel - Rosetta - Rosetta Stone - Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum - Royal Wadi and tombs - Rudamun - Rylands Library Papyrus P52\n\nMohamed Saad - Anwar El Sadat - Sahara - Sahure - Saint Catherine's Monastery - Sais, Egypt - Salec - Abd El-Razzak El-Sanhuri - Saqqara - Sarcophagus - Satet - Scarabaeidae - Scaraboid seal - Scribe - Season of the Emergence - Season of the Harvest - Season of the Inundation - Second Battle of El Alamein - Second Dynasty of Egypt - Second Intermediate Period of Egypt - Sed festival - Sehel Island - Seked - Seker - Sekhmet - Senenmut - Senet - Serabit el-Khadim - Serapeum - Serekh - Serket - Set (mythology) - Seventeenth Dynasty of Egypt - Seventh Dynasty of Egypt - Shai - Omar Sharif - Sharm el-Sheikh - Shasu - Shen ring - Pope Shenouda III of Alexandria - Sherden - Shezmu - Shittah-tree - Shoshenq I - Shu (Egyptian deity) - Sia (god) - Sinai Peninsula - Sistrum - Siwa Oasis - Siwi language - Six-Day War - Sixteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Sixth Dynasty of Egypt - Smenkhkare - Edwin Smith Papyrus - Sneferu - Sobek - Sobekneferu - Solar deity - Sopdet - Sopdu - Southern Tomb 25 - Speos Artemidos - Sphinx - \"Stargate\" - Stele - Stella (beer) - Step pyramid - \"Story of Sinuhe\" - \"Story of Wenamun\" - Strabo - Suez - Suez Canal - Suez Crisis - Syenite - Syriac language\n\nTaba, Egypt - Tadukhipa - Taharqa - Tahpanhes - Takelot I - Takelot II - Takelot III - Talatat - Tamer Hosny - Tanis, Egypt - Tantamani - Senakhtenre Tao I - Seqenenre Tao II - Taweret - Tefnakht - Tefnut - Temple of Kom Ombo - Tenenet - Tenth Dynasty of Egypt - Teti - Mohammed Ali Tewfik - Tewfik Pasha - Tey - \"The Egyptian\" - \"The Ten Commandments (1956 film)\" - Theban Mapping Project - Theban Necropolis - Thebes, Egypt - Thesh - Third Dynasty of Egypt - Third Intermediate Period of Egypt - Thirteenth Dynasty of Egypt - Thirtieth Dynasty of Egypt - Thoth - Thutmose (prince) - Thutmose (18th-dynasty vizier) - Thutmose (19th-dynasty vizier) - Tuthmose (Viceroy of Kush) - Thutmose (sculptor) - Thutmose I - Thutmose II - Thutmose III - Thutmose IV - Tiye - Tjuyu - Tombs of the Nobles (Amarna) - Tombs of the Nobles (Luxor) - Transliteration of Ancient Egyptian - Transport in Egypt - TT71 - Turin King List - Tutankhamun - \"Tutankhamun and the Daughter of Ra\" - Tutkheperre Shoshenq - Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt - Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt family tree - Twentieth Dynasty of Egypt - Twentieth Dynasty of Egypt family tree - Twenty-first Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-first Dynasty of Egypt family tree - Twenty-second Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-first Dynasty of Egypt family tree - Twenty-third Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-fourth Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-eighth Dynasty of Egypt - Twenty-ninth Dynasty of Egypt - Twosret\n\nUmm Kulthum - Umm el-Qa'ab - Unas - Pyramid of Unas - Unfinished obelisk - United Arab Republic - Unut - Upper and Lower Egypt - Uraeus - Userkaf - Userkare - Ushabti\n\nValley of the Kings - Valley of the Queens - Via della Vittoria - Via Maris - Vizier (Ancient Egypt)\n\nWadjet - Wagh El-Birket - Wahibre Ibiau - Wahkare Khety I - Wazner - Water resources management in modern Egypt - Water supply and sanitation in Egypt - Kent R. Weeks - Wegaf - \"Story of Wenamun\" - Weneg (Egyptian deity) - Weneg (pharaoh) - Wepwawet - Werethekau - West Nile virus - Westcar Papyrus - Western Desert Force - Old Winter Palace Hotel, Luxor - Women in Ancient Egypt - Workmen's Village, Amarna - Wosret - WV22 - WV23 - WV25\n\nXerxes I of Persia - Xerxes II of Persia\n\nYaqub-Har - Yom Kippur War - Thomas Young (scientist) - Yuya\n\nZagazig - Zahi Hawass - Zawyet el'Aryan - Ahmed Zewail\n\n"}
{"id": "14505668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505668", "title": "James Fairgrieve", "text": "James Fairgrieve\n\nJames Fairgrieve (1870 – 1953) was a British geographer, educator, and geopolitician. He is best known for his books \"Geography and World Power\" (1915) and \"Geography in School\" (1926).\n\nJames Fairgrieve was born in 1870 in Scotland, son to a Scottish Presbyterian minister. His education was undertaken at Aberystwyth University, graduating in 1889, and then at Jesus College, Oxford, reading mathematics.\n\nFairgrieve began his career teaching in Kelso at Kelso High School and Campbeltown in Scotland. He then moved to London, founding the New Southgate High School. In 1907, he became geography master at William Ellis School.\n\nFairgrieve had no formal training in geography, but took part-time courses in geography at the London School of Economics. These courses were taught by geographer and geopolitician Halford Mackinder. From that point forward, Fairgrieve devoted his life's work to geography.\n\nFairgrieve's career blossomed from 1912, when he left William Ellis School, until 1935, when he retired from Readership at the University of London Institute of Education. He held a number of influential positions at the University of London and the Geographical Association in addition to teaching. His view of geography was fundamentally centered on human geography.\n"}
{"id": "28167620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28167620", "title": "Jean-Christophe Victor", "text": "Jean-Christophe Victor\n\nJean-Christophe Victor (30 May 1947 – 28 December 2016) was a political scientist focusing on international relations. He was the son of the polar explorer Paul-Emile Victor and the television producer Éliane Decrais. He earned a Master in Chinese language, a Master in political sciences (1982) and a PhD in ethnology on Nepal. He was posted as a diplomat in Afghanistan, worked as policy adviser at Nato- Bruxelles, and for the Policy Planning Office at the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nHe was the founder and the director of LEPAC, the Center for Political Studies and Cartographic Analysis, a Paris-based \"think tank\". The LEPAC trains international managers in the corporate sector for companies such as Veolia, Vinci, Areva, British Petroleum, Cartier, and L’Oréal; and public sector organisations including RATP, Council of Europe, and the European Union.\n\nVictor taught geopolitics in France and in several foreign universities. The last books he authored on geopolitics are:\n\n\nHe was the author of a weekly program on European channel ARTE and French world channel TV 5, dealing about geopolitics: \"Le dessous des cartes\" (\"Underneath the Maps\").\n\nJean-Christophe Victor died on 28 December 2016 due to a heart attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33478390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478390", "title": "Kuabeserrai", "text": "Kuabeserrai\n\nKuabeserrai is an island of Palau.\n"}
{"id": "3896222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3896222", "title": "List of Albanian Air Force aircraft", "text": "List of Albanian Air Force aircraft\n\nAlbanian military aircraft include all airplanes and helicopters which have been operated by the Albanian Air Force since its formal inception in 1947. Since Albania has no domestic aircraft manufacturing capacity, all aircraft have been procured from other countries. Additionally, the country's limited resources have meant that such procurement has been primarily through foreign military aid provided to Albania for strategic reasons. Initially, the Warsaw Pact provided equipment through the 1950s, but after a political rift, China supplanted them as the country's main benefactor. After the end of the Cold War and a significant shift in Albanian international relations, as well as a re-posturing of the Albanian Armed Forces, the air force has sought more modern support helicopters from Western Europe to support its new role in partnership with NATO.\n\nIn concert with the Albanian Air Force's primary mission for most of its existence to defend the country's airspace, approximately two of every three aircraft which have served with the force have been fighters.\n\nThe first aircraft to actually arrive for service with the Albanian Air Force were a dozen Yakovlev Yak-9 piston-engine fighters provided by the Soviet Union from stockpiles of World War II equipment. Among the twelve was included a single two-seat operational conversion trainer variant. The aircraft were not competitive with NATO jet fighters that had entered service in Europe by the time the Yak-9 went into service in Albania in 1951. However, they were only intended as a stop-gap to allow the force to develop its organization and skills prior to the provision of its own jet fighter force. Very rapidly after the arrival of jets, the Yak-9 was withdrawn from service in 1956 and its unit converted to the MiG-15.\n\nThe Albanian Air Force gained a significant capability upgrade with the introduction of its first jet aircraft, the Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15. The Soviet Union provided several of the MiG-15bis improved version of the basic MiG-15 fighter which had gained fame in the Korean War. Soviet deliveries in 1955 replaced the Yak-9 and begin expanding the country's air defense capability, while China stepped in with further examples later. In addition to the single-seaters, several two-seat MiG-15UTI training aircraft were delivered, including examples built in Czechoslovakia under the CS.102 designation. Chinese-supplied single-seaters were Soviet-built but often reported under the Chinese J-2 or F-2 designations, while Chinese-supplied two-seat FT-2 trainers were actually Chinese-built. Total numbers are difficult to ascertain, with reports of between fifty and eighty single-seat MiG-15 fighters having been acquired along with as much as half that many two-seat trainers. While the MiG-15 rapidly faded from being a front-line aircraft, the relatively simple design remained in service in quantity in Albania for some time, with a few of both one- and two-seat versions reported on strength as late as 2000.\n\nWhile the MiG-15 had introduced the Albanian military into the jet age, it was rapidly apparent that an upgrade would be necessary to give the country a defense against the next generation of NATO aircraft. The MiG-15 did not carry missiles, and so at the end of the 1950s, the Soviet Union delivered a dozen Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-19PM. These fighters, armed only with air-to-air missiles, complemented the gun-armed MiG-15 in the air defense role. After splitting with the Soviet supply chain, the MiG-19PM airframes were traded to China for shipments of Shenyang J-6 aircraft under the export designation F-6. These aircraft carried both guns and missiles while being somewhat less sophisticated, yet offering the same basic performance as the original MiG-19PM. Nearly 80 of these aircraft were delivered, with some remaining until the very end of the air force's fighter operations in 2005. This number included a small number of FT-6 two-seat operational conversion trainers, the last of which was reportedly retired in 2002.\n\nHaving severed ties with the Soviet Union, Albania turned to China for support of its military build-up. While the Soviets had already delivered some MiG-19 interceptors and China would later deliver large numbers of the MiG-19 derived J-6, a more immediate solution was provided by Beijing in the form of the Shenyang J-5, derived from the subsonic Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-17. The Soviets had never provided the MiG-17 to Albania, and it was inferior to the already employed MiG-19PM in speed and armament. However, the Albanian government was finding itself at odds with NATO, the Warsaw Pact, and most immediately with its neighbor, Yugoslavia, so relatively rapid deliveries of the J-5 under its export designation F-5 were made beginning in 1962. The aircraft were a significant upgrade over the MiG-15 and F-2 aircraft that equipped most Albanian units at the time with better speed and armament. Approximately 20% of the delivered aircraft were two-seat operational conversion trainers designated FT-5. More than eighty F-5 single-seat and twenty FT-5 two-seat aircraft would enter Albanian service, but they did not fare well in air policing duties against Yugoslavian incursions due to their limited speed. Nevertheless, the F-5 would remain a staple of Albanian regiments for decades with the final examples being withdrawn with the cessation of all fighter operations by Albania in 2005.\n\n1970 saw delivery of the most advanced combat aircraft to ever enter service with the Albanian Air Force. The Chengdu F-7A is the export version of China's indigenous development of the Soviet-designed Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-21. While one of the earliest versions of this Chinese fighter, it still represented a major upgrade over the numerous F-5 and F-6 fighters equipping Albanian regiments. Locally called the MiG-21F even though they were completely Chinese-built and supplied, the F-7A provided the Albanians with their only Mach 2 capable aircraft. Only twelve aircraft were delivered, and they equipped a single squadron of the Albanian Air Force. Initially deployed to Rinas Air Base with Aviation Regiment 7594. In 1976 the squadron moved to Gjadër Air Base as the 1st Squadron of Aviation Regiment 5646 (later re-designated Aviation Regiment 4010). After the base's deactivation in 2000, the aircraft were stored until 2002. Two surviving examples were moved back to Rinas and assigned to the 2nd Squadron of Aviation Regiment 4020, though it is unclear whether they were actually flown before they were officially retired in 2004. During the aircraft's operational career, two aircraft were lost to accidents (one in 1974 and one in 1982).\n\nWhile the vast majority of fixed-wing aircraft in the Albanian Air Force have been fighters, a small selection of other aircraft have been employed for transport, training, and other uses. The small size of the country and its defensive posture limited the need for military airlift, with most transport tasks being within the scope of the country's helicopter fleet. While Albania did maintain a meaningful number of training aircraft, these were withdrawn as the fighter force was mothballed, and other fixed-wing operations were reduced. 2011 saw the final fixed-wing operations with the withdrawal of the final transport and training aircraft from service.\n\nAlong with the initial delivery of Yak-9 fighters, the Soviet Union provided four Polikarpov Po-2 utility biplanes to the country. Capable of a variety of utility roles, the pre-World War II design was primarily used for aerial application in support of restoring the country's agricultural capability after the war. These simple but rugged biplanes were used for several years, with the final withdrawal happening in 1964 after the introduction into service of the An-2.\n\nThe third component of early Soviet-supplied equipment for the Albanian Air Force consisted of the standard tandem-seat advanced and primary trainers. Four Yakovlev Yak-11 advanced trainers and four Yakovlev Yak-18 primary trainers were delivered in 1952 to establish Albania's air academy flying program. While these aircraft were a good match with the Yak-9 fighters then in service, a more modern primary trainer was provided in the form of the Yak-18A which was equipped with tricycle gear as opposed to the original model's tail-dragging arrangement. 18 of the newer Yak-18A were supplied and equipped the air academy until most of these aircraft were traded in by 1963 in return for CJ-6 aircraft.\n\nAs with fighters, the political shift from the Soviet Union to China led to the decision to re-equip the training fleet with the Chinese-built Nanchang CJ-6 basic trainer. Twenty of these aircraft, often reported under the designation PT-6 were delivered and they remained the primary trainer of the Albanian air academy through its retirement by the 2010s.\n\nWhile the small size of Albania limits the requirements for fixed-wing airlift capacity, the country acquired an Ilyushin Il-14M in 1957 for general transport duties, including movement of government personnel. This example served for several years until joined by a second Il-14M, as well as an Il-14P built by VEB in East Germany and an Il-14T built by Avia in Czechoslovakia. The secretive nature of Albania during the Cold War has led to some uncertainty about these deliveries with as many as eight Il-14 aircraft reported to be in service. The four aforementioned aircraft were placed in storage in 1992 where they were attacked by rioters in 1997, putting them beyond repair. The aircraft were finally scrapped in 2002.\n\nA single Ilyushin Il-28 bomber was delivered by the Soviet Union in 1957. This was traded to China for a single license-built Il-28, designated H-5, in 1971. While designed as a bomber, it is unclear what use Albania made of their solitary example. Reports have included reconnaissance and target towing, but the aircraft remained in service through 1992 when it was put into storage at Tirana Airport.\n\nThe rugged and seemingly anachronistic Antonov An-2 biplane transport was a good match for Albania's limited need for transport, offering a simple and easy-to-maintain light transport. However, none were acquired from the Soviet Union during the period of Soviet support. Instead it would be 1963 before the first aircraft would be delivered by the Chinese as the Y-5, license-built at Harbin. Thirteen of the rugged biplanes would be acquired and would go on to be the last fixed-wing airplanes to serve in the Albanian Air Force with the last Y-5 retired in 2011.\n\nAlbania's small size, rugged terrain and limited infrastructure make the country prime territory for helicopters. Helicopter use by the air force began in 1957 and after the withdrawal of the last fixed-wing aircraft the branch became and remains an exclusively helicopter-equipped force. Initial helicopters were Soviet supplied, with additional examples provided by China, but as Albania began opening up at the Cold War, they began acquiring a variety of western types.\n\nThree Mil Mi-1 light utility helicopters, the first helicopter type to be serial-produced in the Soviet Union, were provided in 1957 to begin the Albanian Air Force's helicopter force. The light helicopters were primarily used for training and liaison and served into the 1960s.\n\nThe first western type to enter service with Albania was the popular Aérospatiale AS.350B Écureuil, of which four were delivered in 1991. The Écureuil was also the first turbine-powered helicopter in service, operating as a light utility helicopter. The aircraft were given civil registrations and painted in a bright blue civilian scheme to show clearly their assignment to non-military government tasks including carrying important government personnel, search and rescue, and assistance for the police. A single example has crashed and, while controlled by the air force into the 2000s, the helicopters have been transferred to the Albanian government's Ministry of the Interior where they continue to serve in the same role.\n\n\"(Table order: Fighters, Bombers, Transports, Trainers, Other, Helicopters)\"\n\"(Note: a \" - \" means the information is unknown, not yet added, or not applicable)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37877522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37877522", "title": "List of Nortel protocols", "text": "List of Nortel protocols\n\n"}
{"id": "23890509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890509", "title": "List of extreme points of Malaysia", "text": "List of extreme points of Malaysia\n\nThe extreme points of Malaysia include the coordinates that are further north, south, east or west than any other location in Malaysia; and the highest and the lowest altitudes in the country. \n\nThe latitude and longitude are expressed in , in which a positive latitude value refers to the northern hemisphere, and a negative value refers to the southern hemisphere. Similarly, a positive longitude value refers to the eastern hemisphere, and a negative value refers to the western hemisphere. The coordinates used in this article are sourced from Google Earth, which makes use of the WGS84 geodetic reference system. Additionally, a negative altitude value refers to land below sea level.\n\nThe following are the extreme physical land mass points on the Malaysian peninsula inclusive of islands.\n\nThe following are the extreme physical land mass points in East Malaysia inclusive of islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "22548078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22548078", "title": "List of mountains in the Andes", "text": "List of mountains in the Andes\n\nA sortable list of mountains above 4,000 metres in the South American Andes.\n"}
{"id": "7926787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7926787", "title": "List of newspapers in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "List of newspapers in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\n\nOther regional newspapers:"}
{"id": "34198983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198983", "title": "List of post-nominal letters (Trinidad and Tobago)", "text": "List of post-nominal letters (Trinidad and Tobago)\n\n[1] Although issued in three classes (Gold, Silver and Bronze) all three medals carry the same post-nominal letters.\n"}
{"id": "3149297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3149297", "title": "Locative media", "text": "Locative media\n\nLocative media or location-based media (LBM) are media of communication functionally bound to a location. The physical implementation of locative media, however, is not bound to the same location to which the content refers.\n\nLocation-based media delivers multimedia and other content directly to the user of a mobile device dependent upon their location. Location information determined by means such as mobile phone tracking and other emerging real-time locating system technologies like Wi-Fi or RFID can be used to customize media content presented on the device.\n\nLocative media are digital media applied to real places and thus triggering real social interactions. While mobile technologies such as the Global Positioning System (GPS), laptop computers and mobile phones enable locative media, they are not the goal for the development of projects in this field.\n\nMedia content is managed and organized externally of the device on a standard desktop, laptop, server, or cloud computing system. The device then downloads this formatted content with GPS or other RTLS coordinate-based triggers applied to each media sequence. As the location-aware device enters the selected area, centralized services trigger the assigned media, designed to be of optimal relevance to the user and their surroundings.\n\nUse of locative technologies \"includes a range of experimental uses of geo-technologies including location-based games, artistic critique of surveillance technologies, experiential mapping, and spatial annotation.\" Location based media allows for the enhancement of any given environment offering explanation, analysis and detailed commentary on what the user is looking at through a combination of video, audio, images and text. The location-aware device can deliver interpretation of cities, parklands, heritage sites, sporting events or any other environment where location based media is required.\n\nThe content production and pre-production are integral to the overall experience that is created and must have been performed with ultimate consideration of the location and the users position within that location. The media offers a depth to the environment beyond that which is immediately apparent, allowing revelations about background, history and current topical feeds.\n\nThe term 'locative media' was coined by Karlis Kalnins. Locative media is closely related to augmented reality (reality overlaid with virtual reality) and pervasive computing (computers everywhere, as in ubiquitous computing). Whereas augmented reality strives for technical solutions, and pervasive computing is interested in embedded computers, locative media concentrates on social interaction with a place and with technology. Many locative media projects have a social, critical or personal (memory) background.\n\nWhile strictly spoken, any kind of link to additional information set up in space (together with the information that a specific place supplies) would make up location-dependent media, the term locative media is strictly bound to technical projects. Locative media works on locations and yet many of its applications are still location-independent in a technical sense. As in the case of digital media, where the medium itself is not digital but the content is digital, in locative media the medium itself might not be location-oriented, whereas the content is location-oriented.\n\nJapanese mobile phone culture embraces location-dependent information and context-awareness. It is projected that in the near future locative media will develop to a significant factor in everyday life. \n\nLocative media projects use technology such as Global Positioning System (GPS), laptop computers, the mobile phone, Geographic Information System (GIS), and web map services such as Mapbox, OpenStreetMaps, and Google Maps among others. Whereas GPS allows for the accurate detection of a specific location, mobile computers allow interactive media to be linked to this place. The GIS supplies arbitrary information about the geological, strategic or economic situation of a location. Web maps like Google Maps give a visual representation of a specific place. Another important new technology that links digital data to a specific place is radio-frequency identification (RFID), a successor to barcodes like Semacode.\n\nResearch that contributes to the field of locative media happens in fields such as pervasive computing, context awareness and mobile technology. The technological background of locative media is sometimes referred to as \"location-aware computing\".\n\nPlace is often seen as central to creativity; in fact, \"for some—regional artists, citizen journalists and environmental organizations for example—a sense of place is a particularly important aspect of representation, and the starting point of conversations.\" Locative media can propel such conversations in its function as a \"poetic form of data visualization,\" as its output often traces how people move in, and by proxy, make sense of, urban environments.\n\nGiven the dynamism and hybridity of cities and the networks which comprise them, locative media extends the internet landscape to physical environments where people forge social relations and actions which can be \"mobile, plural, differentiated, adventurous, innovative, but also estranged, alienated, impersonalized.\" Moreover, in using locative technologies, users can expand how they communicate and assert themselves in their environment and, in doing so, explore this continuum of urban interactions. Furthermore, users can assume a more active role in constructing the environments they are situated in accordingly.\n\nIn turn, artists have been intrigued with locative media as a means of \"user-led mapping, social networking and artistic interventions in which the fabric of the urban environment and the contours of the earth become a 'canvas.'\" Such projects demystify how resident behaviors in a given city contribute to the culture and sense of personality that cities are often perceived to take on.\n\nDesign scholars Anne Galloway and Matthew Ward state that \"various online lists of pervasive computing and locative media projects draw out the breadth of current classification schema: everything from mobile games, place-based storytelling, spatial annotation and networked performances to device-specific applications.\"\n\nA prominent use of locative media is in \"locative art\". A sub-category of interactive art or new media art, locative art explores the relationships between the real world and the virtual or between people, places or objects in the real world.\n\nNotable locative media projects include Bio Mapping by Christian Nold in 2004, locative art projects such as the SpacePlace ZKM/ZKMax bluecasting and participatory urban media access in Munich in 2005 and Britglyph by Alfie Dennen in 2009, and location-based games such as AR Quake by the Wearable Computer Lab at the University of South Australia and Can You See Me Now? in 2001 by Blast Theory in collaboration with the Mixed Reality Lab at the University of Nottingham. In 2005 the Silicon Valley-based collaborators of C5 first exhibited the C5 Landscape Initiative, a suite of four GPS inspired projects that investigate perception of landscape in light of locative media.\n\nIn William Gibson's 2007 novel \"Spook Country,\" locative art is one of the main themes and set pieces in the story. Narrative projects which engage with locative media are sometimes referred to as Location-Aware Fiction, as explored in \"Data and Narrative: Location Aware Fiction\" a 2003 essay by Kate Armstrong. This Location-Aware Fiction is also known as Locative Literature, where locative stories and poems can be experienced via digital portals, apps, QR codes and e-books, as well as via analogue forms such as labelling tape, Scrabble tiles, fridge magnets or Post-It notes, and these are forms often used by the writer and artist Matt Blackwood.\n\nThe Transborder Immigrant Tool by the Electronic Disturbance Theater is a locative media project aimed at providing life saving directions to water for people trying to cross the US/Mexico border. The project attracted global media attention in 2009 and 2010. Articles included an LA Times cover story focusing on Ricardo Dominguez and an AP story interviewing Micha Cárdenas and Brett Stalbaum. The articles focused on concerns over the legality of the project and the ensuing investigations of the group, which are still underway. The Transborder Immigrant Tool has recently been included in a number of major exhibitions including \"Here, Not There\" at the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego and the 2010 California Biennial at the Orange County Museum of Art.\n\nInvisible Threads by Stephanie Rothenberg and Jeff Crouse is a locative media project aimed at creating embodied awareness of sweatshops and just-in-time production through a virtual sweatshop in Second Life. It was performed at the Sundance Film Festival in 2008.\n\nThe application called Yesterscape was realized for iPhone by Japanese company QOOQ inc. in 2013.\nThis augmented reality camera App which can show historical photo of the space as if user look into the time tunnel. QOOQ inc also offers user to add their historical photos via web interface for them to show through Yesterscape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21461808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21461808", "title": "Maia Berzina", "text": "Maia Berzina\n\nMaia Yanovna Berzina (, October 25, 1910 in Paris – August 30, 2002) was a prominent Soviet ethnographer, geographer and cartographer (member of Soviet Geographic Society from 1954). Among her scores are \"Americans\" entry in the \"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\" (3rd ed., 1970) and several maps in the \"Great Soviet World Atlas\" (vol. 1 and 2). Overall she was the author of about fifty original ethnic maps.\n\nThe father, Yan Berzin, a Lett, was arrested and shot in 1938. Mother Roza Garmiza, originally a Jewish socialist-revolutionary, was arrested in the same year and died in imprisonment. Berzina was born in immigration, in Paris and spent most of her childhood abroad, mainly in England, being fluent in English. She graduated from MSU's geographic faculty as econogeographer. She declared herself a cosmopolite, even in the 1950s, when this word was discouraged in the Soviet Union. Berzina spent only few months of her childhood in Russia, finally settling in Moscow in 1927. In 1937 she married Leonid Vasilevsky, a gifted econogeographer and part-time geographer.\n\nBerzina joined the fresh-formed Peoples Maps Group at the Ethnography Chair of MSU, where she compiled the maps of ethnic compound of Switzerland, India, United States and other countries. During the German-Soviet War, Berzina was evacuated to Tashkent, returning to Moscow in 1943. She was hired as a junior research fellow to the newly established Miklukho-Maklay Ethnography Institute of Soviet Academy of Sciences and worked there until pensioning off in 1984, being elevated to senior research fellow in 1975. In 1969 she upheld a thesis \"Forming of the Ethnic Compound of Canadian Population\" and published a book of the same name. Berzina was also a permanent contributor of the \"Soviet Ethnography\" journal, translating the journal summaries into English.\n\n"}
{"id": "71454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71454", "title": "Moab", "text": "Moab\n\nMoab () is the historical name for a mountainous tract of land in Jordan. The land lies alongside much of the eastern shore of the Dead Sea. The existence of the Kingdom of Moab is attested to by numerous archaeological findings, most notably the Mesha Stele, which describes the Moabite victory over an unnamed son of King Omri of Israel. The Moabite capital was Dibon. According to the Hebrew Bible, Moab was often in conflict with its Israelite neighbours to the west.\n\nThe etymology of the word Moab is uncertain. The earliest gloss is found in the Koine Greek Septuagint which explains the name, in obvious allusion to the account of Moab's parentage, as ἐκ τοῦ πατρός μου (\"from my father\"). Other etymologies which have been proposed regard it as a corruption of \"seed of a father\", or as a participial form from \"to desire\", thus connoting \"the desirable (land)\". Rashi explains the word \"Mo'ab\" to mean \"from the father\", since \"ab\" in Hebrew and Arabic and the rest of the Semitic languages means \"father\". He writes that as a result of the immodesty of Moab's name, God did not command the Jews to refrain from inflicting pain upon the Moabites in the manner in which he did with regard to the Ammonites. Fritz Hommel regards \"Moab\" as an abbreviation of \"Immo-ab\" = \"his mother is his father\".\n\nAccording to , the ancestor of the Moabites was Lot by incest with his eldest daughter. She and her sister, having lost their fiancés and their mother in the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, decided to continue their father's line through intercourse with their father. The elder got him drunk to facilitate the deed and conceived Moab. The younger daughter did the same and conceived a son named Ben-Ammi, who became ancestor to the Ammonites. According to the Book of Jasher (24,24), Moab had four sons—Ed, Mayon, Tarsus and Kanvil—and his wife, whose name is not given, is apparently from Canaan.\n\nMoab occupied a plateau about above the level of the Mediterranean, or above the Dead Sea, and rising gradually from north to south.\n\nIt was bounded on the west by the Dead Sea and the southern section of the Jordan River; on the east by Ammon and the Arabian desert, from which it was separated by low, rolling hills; and on the south by Edom. The northern boundary varied, but generally is represented by a line drawn some miles above the northern extremity of the Dead Sea.\n\nIn the boundaries are given as being marked by Beth-jeshimoth (north), Baal-meon (east), and Kiriathaim (south).\n\nThat these limits were not fixed, however, is plain from the lists of cities given in and Jeremiah 48, where Heshbon, Elealeh, and Jazer are mentioned to the north of Beth-jeshimoth; Madaba, Beth-gamul, and Mephaath to the east of Baalmeon; and Dibon, Aroer, Bezer, Jahaz, and Kirhareseth to the south of Kiriathaim. The principal rivers of Moab mentioned in the Bible are the Arnon, the Dimon or Dibon, and the Nimrim.\n\nThe limestone hills which form the almost treeless plateau are generally steep but fertile. In the spring they are covered with grass and the table-land itself produces grain.\n\nIn the north are a number of long, deep ravines, and Mount Nebo, famous as the scene of the death of Moses. The rainfall is fairly plentiful and the climate, despite the hot summer, is cooler than the area west of the Jordan river, snow falling frequently in winter and in spring.\n\nThe plateau is dotted with hundreds of dolmens, menhirs, and stone circles, and contains many ruined villages, mostly of the Roman and Byzantine periods. The land is now occupied chiefly by Bedouin, though it contains such towns as al-Karak.\n\nThe territory occupied by Moab at the period of its greatest extent, before the invasion of the Amorites, divided itself naturally into three distinct and independent portions: the enclosed corner or canton south of the Arnon (referred to as \"field of Moab\"); the more open rolling country north of the Arnon, opposite Jericho and up to the hills of Gilead (called the \"land of Moab\"); and the district below sea level in the tropical depths of the Jordan valley.\n\nThe country of Moab was the source of numerous natural resources, including limestone, salt and balsam from the Dead Sea region. The Moabites occupied a vital place along the King's Highway, the ancient trade route connecting Egypt with Mesopotamia, Syria, and Anatolia. Like the Edomites and Ammonites, trade along this route gave them considerable revenue.\n\nDespite a scarcity of archaeological evidence, the existence of Moab prior to the rise of the Israelite state has been deduced from a colossal statue erected at Luxor by pharaoh Ramesses II, in the 13th century BCE, which lists \"Mu'ab\" among a series of nations conquered during a campaign.\n\nEarly modern travellers in the region included Ulrich Jasper Seetzen (1805), Johann Ludwig Burckhardt (1812), Charles Leonard Irby and James Mangles (1818), and Louis Félicien de Saulcy (1851).\n\nAccording to the biblical account, Moab and Ammon were born to Lot and Lot's elder and younger daughters, respectively, in the aftermath of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. The Bible refers to both the Moabites and Ammonites as Lot's sons, born of incest with his daughters ().\n\nThe Moabites first inhabited the rich highlands at the eastern side of the chasm of the Dead Sea, extending as far north as the mountain of Gilead, from which country they expelled the Emim, the original inhabitants, but they themselves were afterward driven southward by warlike tribes of Amorites, who had crossed the river Jordan. These Amorites, described in the Bible as being ruled by King Sihon, confined the Moabites to the country south of the river Arnon, which formed their northern boundary.\n\nGod renewed his covenant with the Israelites at Moab before the Israelites entered the \"promised land\" (). Moses died there, prevented by God from entering the promised land. He was buried in an unknown location in Moab and the Israelites spent a period of thirty days there in mourning.\n\nAccording to the Book of Judges, the Israelites did not pass through the land of the Moabites (), but conquered Sihon's kingdom and his capital at Heshbon. After the conquest of Canaan the relations of Moab with Israel were of a mixed character, sometimes warlike and sometimes peaceable. With the tribe of Benjamin they had at least one severe struggle, in union with their kindred the Ammonites and the Amalekites. The Benjaminite shofet Ehud ben Gera assassinated the Moabite king Eglon and led an Israelite army against the Moabites at a ford of the Jordan river, killing many of them.\nThe Book of Ruth testifies to friendly relations between Moab and Bethlehem, one of the towns of the tribe of Judah. By his descent from Ruth, David may be said to have had Moabite blood in his veins. He committed his parents to the protection of the king of Moab (who may have been his kinsman), when hard pressed by King Saul. (1 Samuel 22:3,4) But here all friendly relations stop forever. The next time the name is mentioned is in the account of David's war, who made the Moabites tributary. Moab may have been under the rule of an Israelite governor during this period; among the exiles who returned to Judea from Babylonia were a clan descended from Pahath-Moab, whose name means \"ruler of Moab\".\nAfter the destruction of the First Temple, the knowledge of which people belonged to which nation was lost and the Moabites were treated the same as other gentiles. As a result, all members of the nations could convert to Judaism without restriction. The problem in Ezra and Nehemiah occurred because Jewish men married women from the various nations without their first converting to Judaism.\n\nAt the disruption of the kingdom under the reign of Rehoboam, Moab seems to have been absorbed into the northern realm. It continued in vassalage to the Kingdom of Israel until the death of Ahab which according to E. R. Thiele's reckoning was in about 853 BCE, when the Moabites refused to pay tribute and asserted their independence, making war upon the kingdom of Judah.\n\nAfter the death of Ahab in about 853 BCE, the Moabites under Mesha rebelled against Jehoram, who allied himself with Jehoshaphat, King of the Kingdom of Judah, and with the King of Edom. According to the Bible, the prophet Elisha directed the Israelites to dig a series of ditches between themselves and the enemy, and during the night these channels were miraculously filled with water which was as red as blood.\n\nAccording to the biblical account, the crimson color deceived the Moabites and their allies into attacking one another, leading to their defeat at Ziz, near En Gedi.\n\nAccording to Mesha's inscription on the Mesha Stele, however, he was completely victorious and regained all the territory of which Israel had deprived him. The battle of Ziz is the last important date in the history of the Moabites as recorded in the Bible. In the year of Elisha's death they invaded Israel. and later aided Nebuchadnezzar in his expedition against Jehoiakim.\n\nAlthough allusions to Moab are frequent in the prophetical books and although two chapters of Isaiah (15 and 16) and one of Jeremiah (48) are devoted to the \"burden of Moab,\" they give little information about the land. Its prosperity and pride, which the Israelites believed incurred the wrath of God, are frequently mentioned; and their contempt for Israel is once expressly noted.\nIn the Nimrud clay inscription of Tiglath-pileser III the Moabite king Salmanu (perhaps the Shalman who sacked Beth-arbel in Hosea x. 14) is mentioned as tributary to Assyria. Sargon II mentions on a clay prism a revolt against him by Moab together with Philistia, Judah, and Edom; but on the Taylor prism, which recounts the expedition against Hezekiah, Kammusu-Nadbi (Chemosh-nadab), King of Moab, brings tribute to Sargon as his suzerain. Another Moabite king, Mutzuri (\"the Egyptian\" ?), is mentioned as one of the subject princes at the courts of Esarhaddon and Assurbanipal, while Kaasḥalta, possibly his successor, is named on cylinder B of Assurbanipal.\n\nReferences to the religion of Moab are scant. Most of the Moabites followed the ancient Semitic religion like other ancient Semitic-speaking peoples, and the Book of Numbers says that they induced the Israelites to join in their sacrifices. Their chief god was Chemosh, and the Bible refers to them as the \"people of Chemosh.\"\n\nAccording to II Kings, at times, especially in dire peril, human sacrifices were offered to Chemosh, as by Mesha, who gave up his son and heir to him. Nevertheless, King Solomon built a \"high place\" for Chemosh on the hill before Jerusalem, which the Bible describes as \"this detestation of Moab\". The altar was not destroyed until the reign of Josiah. The Moabite Stone also mentions (line 17) a female counterpart of Chemosh, Ashtar-Chemosh, and a god Nebo (line 14), probably the well-known Babylonian divinity Nabu.\n\nThe Moabite language is an extinct Canaanite language, spoken in Moab (modern day central-western Jordan) in the early first millennium BC. It was written using a variant of the Phoenician alphabet.\n\nMost of our knowledge about Moabite comes from the Mesha Stele, which is the only known extensive text in this language. In addition there are the three line El-Kerak Inscription and a few seals. The main features distinguishing Moabite from fellow Canaanite languages such as Hebrew are: a plural in \"-în\" rather than \"-îm\" (e.g. \"mlkn\" \"kings\" for Biblical Hebrew \"məlākîm\"), like Aramaic and Arabic; retention of the feminine ending \"-at\" or \"-ah\" which Biblical Hebrew reduces to \"-āh\" only (e.g. \"qiryat\" or \"qiryah\" \"town\", Biblical Hebrew \"qiryāh\") but retains in the construct state nominal form (e.g.\"qiryát yisrael\" \"town of Israel\"); and retention of a verb form with infixed \"-t-\", also found in Arabic and Akkadian (\"w-’ltḥm\" \"I began to fight\", from the root \"lḥm\".)\n\nAccording to \"Glottolog\", referencing Huehnergard & Rubin (2011), Moabite was not a distinct language from Hebrew.\n\nAccording to the Bible, the Moabites opposed the Israelite invasion of Canaan, as did the Ammonites. As a consequence, they were excluded from the congregation for ten generations. The term \"tenth generation\" is considered an idiom, used for an unlimited time, as opposed to the third generation, which allows an Egyptian convert to marry into the community. The Talmud expresses the view that the prohibition applied only to male Moabites, who were not allowed to marry born Jews or legitimate converts. Female Moabites, when converted to Judaism, were permitted to marry with only the normal prohibition of a convert marrying a kohen (priest) applying. However, the prohibition was not followed during the Exile, and Ezra and Nehemiah sought to compel a return to the law because men had been marrying women who had not been converted at all. The heir of King Solomon was Rehoboam, the son of an Ammonite woman, Naamah.\n\nOn the other hand, the marriages of the Bethlehem Ephrathites (of the tribe of Judah) Chilion and Mahlon to the Moabite women Orpah and Ruth, and the marriage of the latter, after her husband's death, to Boaz who by her was the great-grandfather of David, are mentioned with no shade of reproach. The Talmudic explanation, however, is that the language of the law applies only to Moabite and Ammonite \"men\" (Hebrew, like all Semitic languages, has grammatical gender). The Talmud also states that the prophet Samuel wrote the Book of Ruth to settle the dispute as the rule had been forgotten since the time of Boaz. Another interpretation is that the Book of Ruth is simply reporting the events in an impartial fashion, leaving any praise or condemnation to be done by the reader.\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud in Yevamot 76B explains that one of the reasons was the Ammonites did not greet the Children of Israel with friendship and the Moabites hired Balaam to curse them. The difference in the responses of the two people led to God allowing the Jewish people to harass the Moabites (but not go to war) but forbade them to even harass the Ammonites.\n\nRuth adopted the god of Naomi, her Israelite mother-in-law. Ruth chose to go back to Naomi's people after her husband, his brother and his father, Naomi's husband, died.\n\nRuth said to Naomi, \"Whither thou goest, I will go; whither thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people and thy God my God\". The Talmud uses this as the basis for what a convert must do to be converted. There are arguments as to exactly when she was converted and if she had to repeat the statement in front of the court in Bethlehem when they arrived there.\n\nAccording to the Book of Jeremiah, Moab was exiled to Babylon for his arrogance and idolatry. According to Rashi, it was also due to their gross ingratitude even though Abraham, Israel's ancestor, had saved Lot, Moab's ancestor from Sodom. Jeremiah prophesies that Moab's captivity will be returned in the end of days.\n\nSometime during the Persian period Moab disappears from the extant historical record. Its territory was subsequently overrun by waves of tribes from northern Arabia, including the Kedarites and (later) the Nabataeans. In the Arabs are mentioned instead of the Moabites as the allies of the Ammonites. Their region, however, continued to be known by its biblical name for some time. For example, when the Crusaders occupied the area, the castle they built to defend the eastern part of the Kingdom of Jerusalem was called Krak des Moabites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6846408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6846408", "title": "Monte Café, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Monte Café, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nMonte Café (Portuguese for \"coffee mountain\") is a village on São Tomé Island in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 684 (2012 census). It lies 4.5 km west of Trindade. Situated in a mountainous terrain at 670 m elevation, very suitable for the cultivation of coffee, it is the site of one of the oldest plantations of São Tomé, established in 1858.\n\n"}
{"id": "18446446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18446446", "title": "Mountain of Smoke", "text": "Mountain of Smoke\n\nThe Mountain of Smoke (, ) is a hill in the Southern Governorate of Bahrain. At above mean sea level, it is the country's highest point. The Mountain of Smoke is named as such because of the haze which often surrounds it on humid days. A number of caves of indeterminate type are in the vicinity of the mountain.\n\nFlint dating to the Stone Age have been found on and around the hill.\n\n"}
{"id": "593904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593904", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Finland", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Finland\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Finland (FI), the three levels are:\n\n2013 version.\n\nIn the 2003 version, Satakunta was coded FI191, and Pirkanmaa was coded FI192.\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Finland can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22376383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22376383", "title": "Overshoot (population)", "text": "Overshoot (population)\n\nIn population dynamics and population ecology, overshoot occurs when a population temporarily exceeds the long term carrying capacity of its environment. The environment usually has mechanisms in place to prevent overshoot. For example, plants are only able to regenerate and regrow a few times after being consumed before completely dying off. The consequence of overshoot is called a collapse, a crash or a die-off in which there is a decline in population density. The entire sequence or trajectory undergone by the population and its environment together is often termed 'overshoot-and-collapse'.\n\nOvershoot can occur due to lag effects. Reproduction rates may remain high relative to the death rate. Entire ecosystems may be severely affected and sometimes reduced to less-complex states due to prolonged overshoot. The eradication of disease can trigger overshoot when a population suddenly exceeds the land's carrying capacity. An example of this occurred on the Horn of Africa when smallpox was eliminated. A region that had supported around 1 million pastoralists for centuries was suddenly expected to support 14 million people. The result was overgrazing, which led to soil erosion.\n\nAn attempt to apply this concept to human experience is \",\" by William R. Catton, Jr., which updates the 1974 book, \"The Limits to Growth\". The Club of Rome study \"The Limits to Growth\" used a computer model which was based on overshoot and collapse. The Limits to Growth simulation showed in several scenarios how overshoot could happen based on an assumption of hard limits to resources, but did not deal with questions of substitution of limited resources with renewable resources.\n\nDepending on your world view, some believe, including Catton, that the Earth's population has already overshot its carrying capacity, by both overpopulation and overconsumption. This may include doomers and those within various degrowth movements. An alternative view is cornucopian including those who believe matter and energy will be obtained from beyond Earth.\n\nGlobally, we can measure how much the human economy demands against what the biosphere can renew. One accounting approach is the ecological footprint. Footprint accounting measures the demand on biocapacity, i.e., area of biologically productive land and water required to produce the ecological services (including resource regeneration and waste absorption) for a given population. Biocapacity encompasses the biologically productive capacity of all of the planet's surface areas – cropland, grazing land, forest, fresh water etc. Footprint accounts include non-renewable resources like fossil fuels and other minerals in as far as their use puts a demand on biocapacity. Some demands are difficult to measure and are not included in the accounts – hence the results tend to underestimate dependency. Ecological footprint and biocapacity are measured in global hectares (hectares with world average biological productivity). Thus increased productivity would reduce dependency; while increased population or consumption per head would increase it.\n\nThe percentage of an area's footprint supported from its renewable resources shows its overall resource dependence within or above its areas' regeneration rate. A percentage over 100 percent indicates local overuse or net dependence on ecosystems elsewhere. Similarly, the percentage of an area’s population supported from its renewable resources is its sustainable population at current consumption levels with current technology; the remaining percentage is its overshoot population. A country's biocapacity deficit increases as either their population or their per capita consumption grows; and faster if both grow.\n\nA detailed list of countries and their main figures to compute the Overshoot (overpopulation) index has been computed by The Optimum Population Trust. All source data is from The Ecological Footprint Atlas 2010, based on 2007 figures, produced by the Global Footprint Network. Countries with populations of under one million have been omitted. Global Footprint Network’s data are largely from UN sources; their methodology is still admittedly imprecise, but is subject to continuous refinement. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "180223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180223", "title": "Palearctic realm", "text": "Palearctic realm\n\nThe Palearctic or Palaearctic is one of the eight biogeographic realms on the Earth's surface, first identified in the 19th century, and still in use today as the basis for zoogeographic classification. The Palearctic is the largest of the eight realms. It stretches across all of Europe, Asia north of the foothills of the Himalayas, North Africa, and the northern and central parts of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe realm consists of several ecoregions: the Euro-Siberian region; the Mediterranean Basin; the Sahara and Arabian Deserts; and Western, Central and East Asia. The Palaearctic realm also has numerous rivers and lakes, forming several freshwater ecoregions. Some of the rivers were the source of water for the earliest recorded civilizations that used irrigation methods.\n\nIn an 1858 paper for the \"Proceedings of the Linnean Society\", British zoologist Philip Sclater first identified six terrestrial zoogeographic realms of the world: Palaearctic, Aethiopian/Afrotropic, Indian/Indomalayan, Australasian, Nearctic, and Neotropical. The six indicated general groupings of fauna, based on shared biogeography and large-scale geographic barriers to migration.\n\nAlfred Wallace adopted Sclater's scheme for his book \"The Geographical Distribution of Animals\", published in 1876. This is the same scheme that persists today, with relatively minor revisions, and the additional of two more realms: Oceania and the Antarctic realm.\n\nThe Palearctic realm includes mostly boreal/subarctic-climate and temperate-climate ecoregions, which run across Eurasia from western Europe to the Bering Sea.\n\nThe boreal and temperate Euro-Siberian region is the Palearctic's largest biogeographic region, which transitions from tundra in the northern reaches of Russia and Scandinavia to the vast taiga, the boreal coniferous forests which run across the continent. South of the taiga are a belt of temperate broadleaf and mixed forests and temperate coniferous forests. This vast Euro-Siberian region is characterized by many shared plant and animal species, and has many affinities with the temperate and boreal regions of the Nearctic ecoregion of North America. Eurasia and North America were often connected by the Bering land bridge, and have very similar mammal and bird fauna, with many Eurasian species having moved into North America, and fewer North American species having moved into Eurasia. Many zoologists consider the Palearctic and Nearctic to be a single Holarctic realm. The Palearctic and Nearctic also share many plant species, which botanists call the Arcto-Tertiary Geoflora.\n\nThe lands bordering the Mediterranean Sea in southern Europe, north Africa, and western Asia are home to the Mediterranean Basin ecoregions, which together constitute the world's largest and most diverse mediterranean climate region of the world, with generally mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers. The Mediterranean basin's mosaic of Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub are home to 13,000 endemic species. The Mediterranean basin is also one of the world's most endangered biogeographic regions; only 4% of the region's original vegetation remains, and human activities, including overgrazing, deforestation, and conversion of lands for pasture, agriculture, or urbanization, have degraded much of the region. Formerly the region was mostly covered with forests and woodlands, but heavy human use has reduced much of the region to the sclerophyll shrublands known as chaparral, matorral, maquis, or garrigue. Conservation International has designated the Mediterranean basin as one of the world's biodiversity hotspots.\n\nA great belt of deserts, including the Atlantic coastal desert, Sahara desert, and Arabian desert, separates the Palearctic and Afrotropic ecoregions. This scheme includes these desert ecoregions in the palearctic realm; other biogeographers identify the realm boundary as the transition zone between the desert ecoregions and the Mediterranean basin ecoregions to the north, which places the deserts in the Afrotropic, while others place the boundary through the middle of the desert.\n\nThe Caucasus mountains, which run between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, are a particularly rich mix of coniferous, broadleaf, and mixed forests, and include the temperate rain forests of the Euxine-Colchic deciduous forests ecoregion.\n\nCentral Asia and the Iranian plateau are home to dry steppe grasslands and desert basins, with montane forests, woodlands, and grasslands in the region's high mountains and plateaux. In southern Asia the boundary of the Palearctic is largely altitudinal. The middle altitude foothills of the Himalaya between about 2000–2500 m form the boundary between the Palearctic and Indomalaya ecoregions.\n\nChina, Korea and Japan are more humid and temperate than adjacent Siberia and Central Asia, and are home to rich temperate coniferous, broadleaf, and mixed forests, which are now mostly limited to mountainous areas, as the densely populated lowlands and river basins have been converted to intensive agricultural and urban use. East Asia was not much affected by glaciation in the ice ages, and retained 96 percent of Pliocene tree genera, while Europe retained only 27 percent. In the subtropical region of southern China and southern edge of the Himalayas, the Palearctic temperate forests transition to the subtropical and tropical forests of Indomalaya, creating a rich and diverse mix of plant and animal species. The mountains of southwest China are also designated as a biodiversity hotspot. In Southeastern Asia, high mountain ranges form tongues of Palearctic flora and fauna in northern Indochina and southern China. Isolated small outposts (sky islands) occur as far south as central Myanmar (on Nat Ma Taung, 3050 m), northernmost Vietnam (on Fan Si Pan, 3140 m) and the high mountains of Taiwan.\n\nThe realm contains several important freshwater ecoregions as well, including the heavily developed rivers of Europe, the rivers of Russia, which flow into the Arctic, Baltic, Black, and Caspian seas, Siberia's Lake Baikal, the oldest and deepest lake on the planet, and Japan's ancient Lake Biwa.\n\nOne bird family, the accentors (Prunellidae) is endemic to the Palearctic region. The Holarctic has four other endemic bird families: the divers or loons (Gaviidae), grouse (Tetraoninae), auks (Alcidae), and waxwings (Bombycillidae).\n\nThere are no endemic mammal orders in the region, but several families are endemic: Calomyscidae (mouse-like hamsters), Prolagidae, and Ailuridae (red pandas). Several mammal species originated in the Palearctic, and spread to the Nearctic during the Ice Age, including the brown bear (\"Ursus arctos\", known in North America as the grizzly), red deer (\"Cervus elaphus\") in Europe and the closely related elk (\"Cervus canadensis\") in far eastern Siberia, American bison (\"Bison bison\"), and reindeer (\"Rangifer tarandus\", known in North America as the caribou).\n\nSeveral large Palearctic animals became extinct from the end of the Pleistocene into historic times, including the Irish elk (\"Megaloceros giganteus\"), aurochs (\"Bos primigenius\") woolly rhinoceros (\"Coelodonta antiquitatis\"), woolly mammoth (\"Mammuthus primigenius\"), North African elephant (\"Loxodonta africana pharaoensis\"), Chinese elephant (\"Elephas maximus rubridens\"), cave bear (\"Ursus spelaeus\"), and European lion (\"Panthera leo europaea\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10228706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10228706", "title": "Pannonian island mountains", "text": "Pannonian island mountains\n\nThe Pannonian island mountains (, Панонске острвске планине, Croatian: Panonske otočne planine) is a term for isolated mountains scattered across the Pannonian Plain, chiefly its western and southern parts, in Hungary, Serbia and Croatia. In prehistoric times, these mountains were islands of the ancient Pannonian Sea that disappeared about 600,000 years ago. \n\nThe island mountains include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46992255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46992255", "title": "Patrick O'Sullivan (author)", "text": "Patrick O'Sullivan (author)\n\nPatrick O'Sullivan is an Irish-British scholar and author of major works in the field of Military geography. He is the author of the oft-cited texts \"The Geography of Warfare\" and \"The Geography of War in the Post-Cold War World\". Though the former was published in 1983 and the latter in 2001, these works remain the seminal texts of Military geography from a civilian publisher, due in large part to the present lack of interest in the subfield among geographers, aside from a small handful who critique militarization through critical theory. In his 1986 book \"Geopolitics\", Patrick O'Sullivan makes a geographically-based case against the proliferation of nuclear weapons during the Cold War, arguing that nuclear weapons pose a threat largely because they reduce the significance of both physical distance and national borders, which would otherwise function as a deterrent to the likelihood of direct military engagement. Patrick O'Sullivan is also known to a lesser extent for his work on the social scientific study of railway transportation in Britain as well as an autoethnographic Cultural Geography essay discussing the relevance of expatriate identity. Starting in 1994, he taught at Florida State University, and now holds the status of professor emeritus. His academic writing incorporates elements of a regional geography focus with aspects of behavioral geography, and often takes a similarly explanatory and analytical approach to the Realist school of International Relations' focus on the behavior and motivations of states, though from a more geopolitical angle and with a greater focus on the decisions of individual leaders. Unlike many other authors and scholars of human geography, his work is not as overtly hostile to environmental determinism or environmental possibilism.\n"}
{"id": "1096809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096809", "title": "Polar night", "text": "Polar night\n\nThe polar night occurs in the northernmost and southernmost regions of the Earth when the night lasts for more than 24 hours. This occurs only inside the polar circles. The opposite phenomenon, the polar day, or midnight sun, occurs when the Sun stays above the horizon for more than 24 hours. \"Night\" is understood as the center of the Sun being below a free horizon. Since the atmosphere bends the rays of the Sun, the polar day is longer than the polar night, and the area that is affected by polar night is somewhat smaller than the area of midnight sun. The polar circle is located at a latitude between these two areas, at the latitude of approximately 66.5 degrees. In the northernmost city of Sweden, Kiruna, at 67°51'N, the polar night lasts for around 28 twenty-four-hour periods, while the midnight sun lasts around 50 twenty-four-hour periods. While it is day in the Arctic Circle, it is night in the Antarctic Circle, and vice versa.\n\nAny planet or moon with a sufficient axial tilt that rotates with respect to its star significantly more frequently than it orbits the star (no tidal locking between the two) will experience the same phenomenon (a nighttime lasting more than one rotation period).\n\nThe polar shortest day is not totally dark everywhere inside the polar circle, but only in places within about 5.5° of the poles, and only when the moon is well below the horizon. Regions located at the inner border of the polar circles experience polar twilight instead of polar night. In fact, polar regions typically get more twilight throughout the year than equatorial regions.\n\nFor regions inside the polar circles, the maximum lengths of the time that the Sun is completely below the horizon varies from zero a few degrees beyond the Arctic Circle and Antarctic Circle to 179 days at the Poles. However, not all this time is classified as polar night since sunlight may be visible because of refraction. Also, the time when the Sun is above the horizon at the poles is 186 days. The numerical asymmetry occurs because the time when the Sun is partially above the horizon is counted towards the daytime. Also, the above numbers are average numbers: the ellipticity of the Earth's orbit makes the South Pole receive a week more of Sun-below-horizon than the North Pole (see equinox).\n\nAs there are various kinds of twilight, there also exist various kinds of polar night. Each kind of polar night is defined as when it's darker than the corresponding kind of twilight. The descriptions below are based on relatively clear skies, so the sky will be darker in the presence of dense clouds.\n\nPolar twilight occurs in areas that are located at the inner border of the polar circles, where the Sun will be on or below the horizon all day on the winter solstice. There is then no true daylight at the solar culmination, only civil twilight. This means that the Sun is below the horizon, but by less than 6°. During civil twilight, there may still be enough light for most normal outdoor activities because of light scattering by the upper atmosphere and refraction. Street lamps may remain on and a person looking at a window from within a brightly lit room may see their reflection even at noon, as the level of outdoor illuminance will be below that of many illuminated indoor spaces.\n\nSufferers of seasonal affective disorder tend to seek out therapy with artificial light, as the psychological benefits of daylight require relatively high levels of ambient light (up to 10,000 lux) which are not present in any stage of twilight; thus, the midday twilights experienced anywhere inside the polar circles are still \"polar night\" for this purpose.\n\nThe civil polar night period produces only a faint glow of light visible at midday. It happens when there is no civil twilight and only nautical twilight occurs at the solar culmination. Civil twilight happens when the Sun is between 0 and 6° below the horizon, and civil night when it is lower than that. Therefore, the civil polar night is limited to latitudes above 72° 34', which is exactly 6° inside the polar circle. Nowhere on mainland Europe is this definition met. On the Norwegian territory of Svalbard, however, civil polar night lasts from about 11 November until 30 January. Dikson, in Russia, experiences civil polar night for approximately a month. During dense cloud cover places like the coast of Finnmark (about 70°) in Norway will get a darker \"day\". On the Canadian territory of Pond Inlet, Nunavut however civil polar night lasts from about 16 December until 26 December.\n\nDuring the nautical polar night period, there is no trace of daylight, except around midday. It happens when there is no nautical twilight and only astronomical twilight occurs at the solar culmination. Nautical twilight happens when the Sun is between six and twelve degrees below the horizon. There is a location at the horizon around midday with more light than others because of refraction. During nautical night, the Sun is lower than 12° below the horizon, so nautical polar night is limited to latitudes above 78° 34', which is exactly 12° within the polar circle, or 11.5° from the pole. Alert, Nunavut, the northernmost settlement in Canada and the world, experiences this from late November to mid-January. \n\nThe northernmost point of land, at the end of Greenland at Oodap Qeqertaa, experiences this from mid November to Late January.\n\nOn the Canadian territory of Eureka, Nunavut in Canada experiences this December 2 to January 8.\n\nOn the Norwegian territory of Svalbard Ny-Alesund experiences this mid to late December.\n\nThe astronomical polar night is a period of continuous night where no astronomical twilight occurs. Astronomical twilight happens when the Sun is between twelve and eighteen degrees below the horizon and astronomical night when it is lower than that. Thus, the astronomical polar night is limited to latitudes above 84° 34', which is exactly 18° within the polar circle, or five and a half degrees from the pole. During the astronomical polar night stars of the sixth magnitude, which are the dimmest stars visible to the naked eye, will be visible throughout the entire day. This happens when the sun is between 18 and 23.5 degrees below the horizon. These conditions last about 11 weeks at the poles.\n\nThe Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station experiences this from May 15 to late July.\n\nThe North Pole experiences this from November 14 to January 29.\n\nIf an observer located on either the North Pole or the South Pole were to define a \"day\" as the time from the maximal elevation of the Sun above the horizon during one period of daylight, until the maximal elevation of the Sun above the horizon of the next period of daylight, then a \"polar-day\" as experienced by such an observer would be one Earth-year long.\n\nThe concept of a night of almost one month in length has been the subject of the vampire movies \"Frostbite\" and \"30 Days of Night\". In these films, the vampires are drawn to the long duration of darkness, allowing them to openly kill and feed at will.\n\n"}
{"id": "256771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256771", "title": "Presidency of the Council of the European Union", "text": "Presidency of the Council of the European Union\n\nThe presidency of the Council of the European Union is responsible for the functioning of the Council of the European Union, the upper house of the EU legislature. It rotates among the member states of the EU every six months. The presidency is not an individual, but rather the position is held by a national government. It is sometimes incorrectly referred to as the \"president of the European Union\". The presidency's function is to chair meetings of the Council, determine its agendas, set a work programme and facilitate dialogue both at Council meetings and with other EU institutions. The presidency is currently (as of July 2018) held by Austria.\n\nThree successive presidencies are known as \"presidency trios\". The current trio (2017-18) is made up of Estonia (Jul-Dec 2017), Bulgaria (Jan-Jun 2018) and Austria (Jul-Dec 2018). \n\nWhen the Council was established, its work was minimal and the presidency rotated between each of the then six members every six months. However, as the work load of the Council grew and the membership increased, the lack of coordination between each successive six-month presidency hindered the development of long-term priorities for the EU.\n\nIn order to rectify the lack of coordination, the idea of trio presidencies was put forward where groups of three successive presidencies cooperated on a common political program. This was implemented in 2007 and formally laid down in the EU treaties in 2009 by the Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nUntil 2009, the Presidency had assumed political responsibility in all areas of European integration and it played a vital role in brokering high-level political decisions.\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon reduced the importance of the Presidency significantly by officially separating the European Council from the Council of the European Union. Simultaneously it split the foreign affairs Council configuration from the General Affairs configuration and created the position of High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.\n\nAfter the United Kingdom's Brexit vote in 2016 and its subsequent relinquishment of its scheduled presidency in the Council of the European Union which was due to take place from July to December 2017, the rotation of presidencies was brought six months forward. Estonia was scheduled to take over the UK's six-month slot instead. The presidency is currently (as of July 2018) held by Austria.\n\nThe Council meets in various formations where its composition depends on the topic discussed. For example, the Agriculture Council is composed of the national ministers responsible for Agriculture.\n\nThe primary responsibility of the Presidency is to organise and chair all meetings of the Council, apart from the Foreign Affairs Council which is chaired by the High Representative. So, for instance, the Minister of Agriculture for the state holding the presidency chairs the Agriculture council. This role includes working out compromises capable of resolving difficulties.\n\nEach three successive presidencies cooperate on a \"triple-shared presidency\" work together over an 18-month period to accomplish a common agenda by the current president simply continuing the work of the previous \"lead-president\" after the end of his/her term. This ensures more consistency in comparison to a usual single six-month presidency and each three includes a new member state. This allows new member states to hold the presidency sooner and helps old member states pass their experience to the new members.\n\nThe role of the rotating Council Presidency includes:\n\nHolding the rotating Council Presidency includes both advantages and disadvantages for member states;\nThe opportunities include:\n\nThe burdens include:\n\nThe rotating presidency is probably not needed any more, with the 2009 reforms by the Treaty of Lisbon, but reforming it has proved incredibly difficult: it still enables little states to stand up and try to push forward vital policies; it represents a sharing of administrative burdens, enabling the coordination of policies, the stability of the Council agenda (through the \"troika\") and providing learning and experience for member states' public administrations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2437324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437324", "title": "Rope stretcher", "text": "Rope stretcher\n\nIn ancient Egypt, a rope stretcher (or harpedonaptai) was a surveyor who measured real property demarcations and foundations using knotted cords, stretched so the rope did not sag. The practice is depicted in tomb paintings of the Theban Necropolis. Rope stretchers used 3-4-5 triangles and the plummet, which are still in use by modern surveyors.\n\nThe commissioning of a new sacred building was a solemn occasion, and officials as high-ranking as the Pharaoh participated in a ceremony that involved personally stretching ropes to define the foundation. This important ceremony, and therefore rope-stretching itself, are attested over 3000 years from the early dynastic period to the Ptolemaic kingdom.\n\nRope stretching technology spread to ancient Greece and India, where it stimulated the development of geometry and mathematics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38921527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38921527", "title": "Sklodowska (Martian crater)", "text": "Sklodowska (Martian crater)\n\nSklodowska is a crater on Mars, located in the Mare Acidalium quadrangle at 33.7°N and 2.9°W. It measures in diameter and was named after Polish chemist and first female Nobel Laureate Marie Skłodowska Curie (1867–1934). The naming was approved in 1973, by the International Astronomical Union's Working Group for Planetary System Nomenclature.\n\nPictures of Sklodowska show numerous branched channels along its rim. Some are visible in the pictures below.\n\n"}
{"id": "4547938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4547938", "title": "Tanapag Harbor", "text": "Tanapag Harbor\n\nTanapag Harbor () is the primary harbor of Saipan, and is located on the western side of the island. It is separated from the Philippine Sea by a barrier reef, located about 3 km (2 miles) off the shore. This reef forms the Saipan Lagoon.\n\nDuring World War II the harbor was occupied and used by Japan and later the United States. Following the war the harbor facilities have been significantly expanded to provide support for the U.S. Navy.\n\nThis port is also called Puetton Tanapag, or the inner harbor.\n\nThe harbor should not be confused with the similarly named popular introductory SCUBA diving site at Tanapag Beach. Dive sites of saipan\n\n"}
{"id": "48504050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48504050", "title": "Thomas T. Veblen", "text": "Thomas T. Veblen\n\nThomas Thorstein Veblen (born 15 November 1947) is an American forest ecologist and physical geographer known for his work on the ecology of \"Nothofagus\" (southern beech) forests in the Southern Hemisphere and on the ecology of conifer forests in the southern Rocky Mountains of the U.S.A. He is an Arts and Sciences College Professor of Distinction at University of Colorado at Boulder, USA (2006).\n\nVeblen’s research focuses on disturbance ecology in the contexts of climate change and human impacts on temperate forest ecosystems in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. From 1975-79 he was professor of plant ecology in the Forestry School of the Universidad Austral in Valdivia, Chile where he initiated pioneering research on the disturbance ecology and regeneration dynamics of \"Nothofagus\" forests. One of his early achievements was the unravelling of how repeated coarse-scale disturbances related mostly to tectonic events control the dynamics of forests in the Andes of southern Chile. His early work developed a conceptual framework which was seminal to the shift from equilibrium to non-equilibrium paradigms in ecology in the 1980s. His early work defined a research agenda for multiple generations of forest ecologists in southern Chile and Argentina including many internationally recognized research leaders who completed their doctoral training with Veblen. His continuing work in the forests of Patagonian Chile and Argentina examines climatic influences on wildfire activity and the effects of introduced mammals on vegetation responses to fire.\n\nIn the U.S. Rocky Mountains Veblen has published on the roles of wildfire, bark beetle outbreaks, and wind storms in the dynamics of conifer forests. He published one of the first quantitative studies of interacting disturbance by wildfire, snow avalanches, and bark beetle outbreaks. Using tree ring methods he and his students have reconstructed multi-century records of bark beetle outbreaks and wildfires and related them to interannual climatic variability.\n\nProfessor Veblen held a postdoc fellowship with the Forest Research Institute of New Zealand from 1979 to 1981 where he conducted research on the disturbance ecology of beech and conifer forests and the effects of introduced mammals on tree mortality and regeneration in collaboration with Dr. Glenn H. Stewart of the Forest Research Institute. Their papers published in the early 1980s were pivotal to the adoption of non-equilibrium paradigms in plant ecology in New Zealand.\nIn 1985 Veblen was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship. Since 1991 Veblen is Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand. In 1992 Veblen received an Honors in Research Award from the Association of American Geographers. In 2000, Veblen was the recipient of a \"Carl O. Sauer Distinguished Scholar Award\".\nIn 2008 Veblen was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In 2017 Veblen received the title of Distinguished Professor, the highest honor bestowed by the University of Colorado on its faculty. \n\nVeblen was a co-editor of \"The Ecology and Biogeography of Nothofagus Forests\", a book published by Yale University Press in March 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "21208200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21208200", "title": "Western world", "text": "Western world\n\nThe Western world refers to various nations depending on the context, most often including at least part of Europe, Australasia and the Americas, with the status of Latin America being disputed by some authors. Also known as the West, there are many accepted definitions, all closely interrelated. The Western world is also known as the Occident (from the Latin word \"occidens\", \"sunset, \"West\"\") in contrast to the Orient (from Latin word \"oriens\", \"rise, East\") or Eastern world.\n\nAncient Greece and Ancient Rome are generally considered to be the birthplaces of Western civilization (whilst Greece as having shaped the development of Rome): the former due to its impact on philosophy, democracy, science and art, building designs and proportions, architecture; the latter due to its influence on law, warfare, governance, republicanism, engineering, and religion. Western civilization is also founded upon Roman Catholicism and various Protestant churches, which are in turn shaped by Hellenistic philosophy, Judaism, and Roman culture. Likewise, the ancient Hellenes (or Greeks) had been affected by ancient Near East civilizations, including Judaism and Early Christianity. In the modern era, Western culture has been heavily influenced by the Renaissance, the Ages of Discovery and Enlightenment, and the Industrial Revolutions. Through extensive imperialism and Christianization by Western powers in the 15th to 20th centuries, much of the rest of the world has been influenced by Western culture.\n\nThe concept of the Western part of the earth has its roots in the theological, methodological and emphatical division between the Western Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches. \"West\" was originally literal, opposing Catholic Europe with the cultures and civilizations of Orthodox Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and the remote Far East which early-modern Europeans saw as the East.\n\nBy the mid-20th century worldwide export of western culture went through the new mass media: film, radio and television and recorded music, while the development and growth of international transport and telecommunication (such as Transatlantic cable and the Radiotelephone) played a decisive role in modern globalization. In modern usage, \"Western world\" sometimes refers to Europe and to areas whose populations largely originate from Europe, through the Age of Discovery.\n\nWestern culture was influenced by many older great civilizations of the ancient Near East, such as Phoenicia, Ancient Israel, Minoan Crete, Sumer, Babylonia, and also Ancient Egypt. It originated in the Mediterranean basin and its vicinity; Ancient Greece and Rome are often cited as its birthplaces.\n\nOver time, their associated empires grew first to the east and west to include the rest of Mediterranean and Black Sea coastal areas, conquering and absorbing. Later, they expanded to the north of the Mediterranean Sea to include Western, Central, and Southeastern Europe. Christianization of Ireland (5th century), Christianization of Bulgaria (9th century), Christianization of Kievan Rus' (Russia, Ukraine, Belarus; 10th century), Christianization of Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway, Sweden; 12th century) and Christianization of Lithuania (14th century) brought the rest of present-day European territory into Western civilization.\n\nHistorians, such as Carroll Quigley in \"The Evolution of Civilizations\", contend that Western civilization was born around AD 500, after the total collapse of the Western Roman Empire, leaving a vacuum for new ideas to flourish that were impossible in Classical societies. In either view, between the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the Renaissance, the West (or those regions that would later become the heartland of the culturally \"western sphere\") experienced a period of first, considerable decline, and then readaptation, reorientation and considerable renewed material, technological and political development. This whole period of roughly a millennium is known as the Middle Ages, its early part forming the \"Dark Ages\", designations that were created during the Renaissance and reflect the perspective on history, and the self-image, of the latter period.\n\nThe knowledge of the ancient \"Western world\" was partly preserved during this period due to the survival of the Eastern Roman Empire and the introduction of the Catholic Church; it was also greatly expanded by the Arab importation of both the Ancient Greco-Roman and new technology through the Arabs from India and China to Europe.\n\nSince the Renaissance, the West evolved beyond the influence of the ancient Greeks and Romans and the Islamic world, due to the successful Second Agricultural, Commercial, Scientific, and Industrial revolutions (propellers of modern banking concepts) peaked with the 18th century's Age of enlightenment, through the Age of exploration's expansion of peoples of Western and Central European empires, particularly the globe-spanning colonial empires of 18th and 19th centuries. Numerous times, this expansion was accompanied by Catholic missionaries, who attempted to proselytize Christianity.\n\nThere is debate among some as to whether Latin America as a whole is in a category of its own. Whether Russia should be categorized as \"East\" or \"West\" has been \"an ongoing discussion\" for centuries.\n\nThe term \"Western culture\" is used very broadly to refer to a heritage of social norms, ethical values, traditional customs, religious beliefs, political systems, and specific artifacts and technologies.\n\nSpecifically, Western culture may imply:\n\nThe concept of Western culture is generally linked to the classical definition of the \"Western world\". In this definition, Western culture is the set of literary, scientific, political, artistic and philosophical principles that set it apart from other civilizations. Much of this set of traditions and knowledge is collected in the Western canon.\n\nThe term has come to apply to countries whose history is strongly marked by European immigration or settlement, such as the Americas, and Oceania, and is not restricted to Europe.\n\nSome tendencies that define modern Western societies are the existence of political pluralism, laicism, generalization of middle class, prominent subcultures or countercultures (such as New Age movements), increasing cultural syncretism resulting from globalization and human migration. The modern shape of these societies is strongly based upon the Industrial Revolution and the societies' associated social and environmental problems, such as class and pollution, as well as reactions to them, such as syndicalism and environmentalism.\n\nThe geopolitical divisions in Europe that created a concept of \"East\" and \"West\" originated in the ancient tyrannical and imperialistic Graeco-Roman times. The Eastern Mediterranean was home to the highly urbanized cultures that had Greek as their common language (owing to the older empire of Alexander the Great and of the Hellenistic successors.), whereas the West was much more rural in its character and more readily adopted Latin as its common language. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the beginning of the Medieval times (or \"Middle Ages\"), Western and Central Europe were substantially cut off from the East where \"Byzantine\" Greek culture and Eastern Christianity became founding influences in the Eastern European world such as the Eastern and Southern Slavic peoples.\nRoman Catholic Western and Central Europe, as such, maintained a distinct identity particularly as it began to redevelop during the Renaissance. Even following the Protestant Reformation, Protestant Europe continued to see itself as more tied to Roman Catholic Europe than other parts of the perceived \"civilized world\".\nUse of the term \"West\" as a specific cultural and geopolitical term developed over the course of the Age of Exploration as Europe spread its culture to other parts of the world. Roman Catholics were the first major religious group to immigrate to the New World, as settlers in the colonies of Portugal and Spain (and later, France) belonged to that faith. English and Dutch colonies, on the other hand, tended to be more religiously diverse. Settlers to these colonies included Anglicans, Dutch Calvinists, English Puritans and other nonconformists, English Catholics, Scottish Presbyterians, French Huguenots, German and Swedish Lutherans, as well as Quakers, Mennonites, Amish, and Moravians.\n\nAncient Greek civilization had been growing in 1st millennium BC into wealthy poleis, so-called city-states (geographically loose political entities which in time, inevitably end giving way to larger organisations of society, including the empire and the nation-state) such as Athens, Sparta, Thebes, and Corinth, by Middle and Near Eastern ones (Sumerian cities such as Uruk and Ur; Ancient Egyptian city-states, such as Thebes and Memphis; the Phoenician Tyre and Sidon; the five Philistine city-states; the Berber city-states of the Garamantes).\n\nThe then Hellenic division between the barbarians (term used by Ancient Greeks for all non-Greek-speaking people) and the Greeks contrasted in many societies the Greek-speaking culture of the Greek settlements around the Mediterranean to the surrounding non-Greek cultures. Herodotus considered the Persian Wars of the early 5th century BC a conflict of Europa versus Asia (which he considered all land north and east of the Sea of Marmara, respectively).\nThe terms \"West\" and \"East\" were not used by any Greek author to describe that conflict. The anachronistic application of those terms to that division entails a stark logical contradiction, given that, when the term \"West\" appeared, it was used by Hellenistic Roman Catholic of Greek heritage but also of Latin-speaking culture, in opposition to the Greek Orthodox and their Greek-speaking culture.\n\nGreek culture, is said to have influenced Roman civilization in all aspects of society, from architecture to philosophy, art and war.\n\nAccording to a few writers, the future conquest of parts of the Roman Empire by Germanic peoples and the subsequent dominance by the Western Christian Papacy (which held combined political and spiritual authority, a state of affairs absent from Greek civilization in all its stages), resulted in a rupture of the previously existing ties between the Latin West and Greek thought, including Christian Greek thought.\n\nAncient Rome (753 BC – AD 476) was a civilization that grew from a city-state founded on the Italian Peninsula about the 8th century BC to a massive empire straddling the Mediterranean Sea. In its 10-centuries expansion, Roman civilization shifted from a small monarchy (753 – 509 BC), to a republic (509 – 27 BC), to an autocratic empire (27 BC – AD 476). It came to dominate Western, Central and Southeastern Europe and the entire area surrounding the Mediterranean Sea through conquest using the Roman legions and then through cultural assimilation by eventually giving Roman citizenship privileges to the whole population. Nonetheless, despite its great legacy, a number of factors led to the eventual decline and fall of the Roman Empire.\nThe Roman Empire succeeded the approximately 500-year-old Roman Republic ( 510 BC – 30 BC), which had been weakened by the conflict between Gaius Marius and Sulla and the civil war of Julius Caesar against Pompey and Marcus Brutus. During these struggles hundreds of senators were killed, and the Roman Senate had been refilled with loyalists of the First Triumvirate and later those of the Second Triumvirate. In 350 years, from the successful and deadliest war with the Phoenicians began in 218 BC to the rule of Emperor Hadrian by AD 117, Ancient Rome expanded up to twenty-five times its area. The same time passed before its fall in AD 476. Rome had expanded long before the empire reached its zenith with the conquest of Dacia in AD 106, under Emperor Trajan. During its territorial peak, the Roman Empire controlled about of land surface and had a population of 100 million. From the time of Caesar (100 – 44 BC) to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire, Rome dominated Southern Europe, the Mediterranean coast of Northern Africa and the Western Middle East, including the ancient trade routes with population living outside. Ancient Rome has contributed greatly to the development of law, war, art, literature, architecture, technology and language in the \"Western world\", and its history continues to have a major influence on the world today. Latin language has been the base from which Romance languages evolved and it has been the official language of the Catholic Church and all Catholic religious ceremonies all over Europe until 1967, as well as an or the official language of countries such as Poland (9th–18th centuries).\n\nIn AD 395, a few decades before its Western collapse, the Roman Empire formally split into a Western and an Eastern one, each with their own emperors, capitals, and governments, although ostensibly they still belonged to one formal Empire. The Western Roman Empire provinces eventually were replaced by Northern European Germanic ruled kingdoms in the 5th century due to civil wars, corruption, and devastating Germanic invasions from such tribes as the Goths, the Franks and the Vandals by their late expansion throughout Europe. The three-day Visigoths's AD 410 sack of Rome who had been raiding Greece not long before, a shocking time for Graeco-Romans, was the first time after almost 800 years that Rome had fallen to a foreign enemy, and St. Jerome, living in Bethlehem at the time, wrote that \"The City which had taken the whole world was itself taken.\" However, the Pope would be spearing slaughter and destruction by the followed sack of AD 455 lasted 14 days this time conducted by the Vandals, retaining Rome's ethernal spirit through the Holy See of Rome (the Latin Church) for centuries to come. The ancient Barbarian tribes, often composed of well-trained Roman soldiers paid by Rome to guard the extensive borders, had become militarily sophisticated 'romanized barbarians', and mercilessly slaughtered the Romans conquering their Western territories while looting their possessions.\n\nThe Roman Empire is where the idea of \"the West\" began to emerge. By Rome's central location at the heart of the Empire, \"West\" and \"East\" were terms used to denote provinces west and east of the capital itself. Therefore, Iberia (Portugal and Spain), Gaul (France), Mediterranean coast of North Africa (Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco) and Britannia were all part of the \"West\", while Greece, Cyprus, Anatolia, Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Palestine, Egypt, and Libya were part of the \"East\". Italy itself was considered central, until the reforms of Diocletian, with the idea of formally dividing the Empire into true two halves: Eastern and Western.\n\nThe dissolution of the Western half (nominally in AD 476, but in truth a long process that ended by AD 800) left only the Eastern Roman Empire alive. The East continued to call themselves Eastern Romans even after AD 610 – 800 when Greek had become official language of the empire (was Latin) and the Pope's crowning of Charlemagne as \"Emperor of the Romans\", while the West began thinking in terms of Western Latins (those living in the old Western Empire) and Eastern Greeks (those inside the Roman remnant to the east).\n\nThe Eastern Roman Empire, governed from Constantinople, is usually referred to as the Byzantine Empire after AD 476, the traditional date for the \"fall of the Western Roman Empire\" and beginning of the Early Middle Ages. The Eastern Roman Empire surviving the fall of the Western, protected Roman legal and cultural traditions, combining them with Greek and Christian elements, for another thousand years. The name Byzantine Empire was used after the Byzantine Empire ended, the inhabitants of the Byzantine Empire continued to call themselves Romans for long time as the term “Roman” was meant to signify all Christians.\n\nIn the early 4th century (AD 330), Roman Emperor Constantine the Great had established the city of Constantinople (formerly Byzantium) as the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire, later recognized as the Byzantine Empire. The Eastern Roman Empire included lands south-west of the Black Sea and bordering on the Eastern Mediterranean and parts of the Adriatic Sea. This division into Eastern and Western Roman Empires was reflected in the administration of the Roman Catholic and Eastern Greek Orthodox churches, with Rome and Constantinople debating over whether either city was the capital of Western religion.\n\nAs the Eastern (Orthodox) and Western (firstly Catholic, then Protestant as well) churches spread their influence, the line between Eastern and Western Christianity was moving. Its movement was affected by the influence of the Byzantine empire and the fluctuating power and influence of the Catholic church in Rome. Beginning in the Middle Ages religious cultural hegemony slowly waned in Europe generally. This process may have prompted the geographic line of religious division to approximately follow a line of cultural divide.\nThe influential American conservative political scientist, adviser and academic Samuel P. Huntington argued that this cultural division still existed during the Cold War as the approximate Western boundary of those countries that were allied with the Soviet Union.\n\nIn AD 800 under Charlemagne, the Early Medieval Franks established an empire that was recognized by the Pope in Rome as the Holy Roman Empire (Latin Christian revival of the ancient Roman Empire, under perpetual Germanic rule from AD 962) inehiriting ancient Roman Empire's prestige but offending the Roman Emperor in Constantinople. The crowning of the Emperor by the Pope led to the assumption that the highest power was the papal hierarchy, quintessential Roman Empire's spiritual heritage authority, establishing then, until the Protestant Reformation, the civilization of West Christendom.\n\nThe Latin Rite Catholic Church of western and central Europe split with the eastern Greek-speaking Patriarchates by the Christian East–West Schism, also known as the \"Great Schism\", during the Gregorian Reforms (calling for a more central status of the Roman-Catholic Church Institution), three months after Pope's death in April 1054. Following 1054 Great Schism, both the Western Church and Eastern Church continued to consider themselves \"uniquely\" orthodox and catholic. Augustine wrote in On True Religion: “Religion is to be sought... only among those who are called Catholic or orthodox Christians, that is, guardians of truth and followers of right.” Over time, the Western Church gradually identified with the \"Catholic\" label, and people of Western Europe gradually associated the \"Orthodox\" label with the Eastern Church (although in some languages, the \"Catholic\" label is not necessarily identified with the Western Church). This was in note of the fact that both Catholic and Orthodox were in use as ecclesiastical adjectives as early as the 2nd and 4th centuries respectively.\n\nIn 1071, the Byzantine army was defeated by the Muslim Turco-Persians of medieval Asia, resulting in the loss of most of Asia Minor. The situation was a serious threat to the future of the Eastern Orthodox Byzantine Empire. The Emperor sent a plea to the Pope in Rome to send military aid to restore the lost territories to Christian rule. The result was a series of western European military campaigns into the eastern Mediterranean, known as the \"Crusades\". Unfortunately for the Byzantines, the crusaders (belonging to the members of high aristocracy from France, western Germany, the Low countries, and Italy) had no allegiance to the Byzantine Emperor and established their own states in the conquered regions, including the heart of the Byzantine Empire.\nMeanwhile, the extent of both Christendoms expanded, as Germanic peoples, Bohemia, Poland, Hungary, Scandinavia, Baltic peoples, British Isles and the other non-Christian lands of the northwest were converted by the Western Church, while Slavic peoples, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Georgia were converted by the Eastern Church. The Holy Roman Empire would dissolve on 6 August 1806, after the French Revolution and the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine by Napoleon.\nDecline of the Byzantine Empire (13th-15th centuries) began by Latin Christian Fourth Crusade in AD 1202-04, considered to be one of the most prominent acts that solidified the schism between the Christian churches of Greek Byzantine Rite and Latin Roman Rite. It had evolved from an anti-Western riot in 1182 broke out in Constantinople and targeting Latins, the extremely wealthy (after previous Crusades) Venetians in particular, into a successful attempt to maintain control over the coast of Catholic present-day Croatia (specifically the Dalmatia, region of interest to maritime medieval Venetian Republic moneylenders and its rivals, such as the Republic of Genoa) rebelling against the Venetian economical domination. What followed dealt an irrevocable blow to the already weakened Byzantine Empire with the Crusader army's sack of Constantinople in April 1204, capital of the Greek Christian-controlled Byzantine Empire, described as one of the most profitable and disgraceful sacks of a city in history which would be paving the way for Muslim conquests in present-day Turkey and Balkans in the coming centuries (only a handful of the Crusaders followed to the stated destination thereafter, the Holy Land). The geographical identity of the Balkans is historically known as a crossroads of cultures, a juncture between the Latin and Greek bodies of the Roman Empire, the destination of a massive influx of pagans (meaning \"non-Christians\") Bulgars and Slavs, an area where Catholic and Orthodox Christianity met, as well as the meeting point between Islam and Christianity. The Papal Inquisition is established in AD 1229 on a permanent basis, run largely by clergymen in Rome, and abolished six centuries later; before AD 1100, the Catholic Church suppressed what they believed to be heresy, usually through a system of ecclesiastical proscription or imprisonment, but without using torture, and seldom resorting to executions.\n\nThis much profitable Central European Fourth Crusade had prompted 14th century Renaissance (translated as 'Rebirth') of Italian city-states including Papal States, ushering the following Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation (which established the Roman Inquisition after the Medieval Inquisition) of the 1500s by discovery of the American continent, and consequent dissolution of West Christendom as even a theoretical unitary political body, later resulting in the religious Eighty Years War (1568-1648) and Thirty Years War (1618-1648) between various Protestant and Catholic states of the Holy Roman Empire (and emergence of religiously diverse confessions). In this context, the Protestant Reformation (1515) may be viewed as a schism within the Catholic Church. German monk Martin Luther, in the wake of precursors, broke with the pope and with the emperor by the Catholic Church's abusive commercialization of indulgences in the Late Medieval Period, backed by many of the German princes and helped by the development of the printing press in an attempt to reform corruption within the church.\n\nBoth these religious wars ended by the Peace of Westphalia (1648), which enshrined the concept of the nation-state, and the principle of absolute national sovereignty in international law. As European influence spread across the globe, these Westphalian principles, especially the concept of sovereign states, became central to international law and to the prevailing world order.\n\nLater concepts of a world of nation-states born by the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, coupled with the ideologies of the Enlightenment, the coming of modernity, the Scientific Revolution and the Industrial Revolution, would produce powerful social transformations, political and economic institutions that have come to influence (or been imposed upon) most nations of the world today. Historians agree that the Industrial Revolution has been one of the most important events in history.\nThis process of influence (and imposition) began with the voyages of discovery, colonization, conquest, and exploitation of Portugal enforced as well by papal bulls in 1450s (by the fall of the Byzantine Empire), granting Portugal navigation, war and trade monopoly for any newly discovered lands, and competing Spanish navigators. It continued with the rise of the Dutch East India Company by the destabilising Spanish discovery of the New World, and the creation and expansion of the English and French colonial empires, and others.\n\nDue to the reach of these empires, Western institutions expanded throughout the world. Even after demands for self-determination from subject peoples within Western empires were met with decolonization, these institutions persisted. One specific example was the requirement that post-colonial societies were made to form nation-states (in the Western tradition), which often created arbitrary boundaries and borders that did not necessarily represent a whole nation, people, or culture, and are often the cause of international conflicts and friction even to this day. Although not part of Western colonization process proper, following the Middle Ages Western culture in fact entered other global-spanning cultures during the colonial 15th-20th centuries.\n\nWith the discovery of the American continent, the New World in 1492-1493, the European colonial Age of Discovery and exploration was born revisiting an imperialistic view accompanied by the invention of firearms, while marking the start of the Modern Era. During this long period the Catholic Church had inaugurated a major effort to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the Native Americans and others, by a 'Modern West' emerging from Late Middle Ages (after the Renaissance and fall of Constantinople) as a new civilization greatly influenced by the interpretation of Greek thought preserved in the Byzantine Empire, and transmitted from there by Latin translations and emigration of Greek scholars through Renaissance humanism (popular typefaces such as italics were inspired and designed from transcriptions during this period). By Renaissance architectural works, revivals of Classical and Gothic styles flourished during this modern period throughout Western colonial empires, with the former embodying Roman Catholic Church and republican values while the latter having more conservative and Protestant Church connotations.\n\nIn the 13th and 14th centuries, a number of European travelers, many of them Christian missionaries, had sought to cultivate trading with Asia and Africa. By start of the Crusades and relative contraction of Orthodox Byzantine's large silk industry in favour of Catholic Western European and rise of Western Papacy, most famous of these merchant travelers after the was Venetian Marco Polo. But these journeys had little permanent effect on the East-West trade because of a series of political developments in Asia in the last decades of the 14th century, which put an end to further European exploration of Asia: namely the new Ming rulers were found to be unreceptive of religious proselytism by European missionaries and merchants. Meanwhile, the Ottoman Turks consolidated control over the eastern Mediterranean, closing off key overland trade routes.\n\nThe Portuguese spearheaded the drive to find oceanic routes that would provide cheaper and easier access to South and East Asian goods, by advancements in maritime technology such as the caravel ship introduced in the mid-1400s. This chartering of oceanic routes between East and West began with the unprecedented voyages of Portuguese and Spanish sea captains, and would eventually expand across the globe initiating European colonialism by Hispano-Italian 1492 exploring voyage by merchant, navigator, and colonizer Christopher Columbus. These voyages were influenced by medieval European adventurers after the European spice trade with Asia, who had journeyed overland to the Far East contributing to geographical knowledge of parts of the Asian continent upon their return, and are of enormous significance in Western history as they marked the beginning of the European exploration, colonization and exploitation of the American continents and that of their native inhabitants. The European colonization of the Americas was the outset of the Atlantic slave trade between the 1490s and the 1800s, which also contributed to the development of African intertribal warfare and racist ideology. Until the abolition of its slave trade in 1807, the British Empire alone (which had started colonial efforts in 1578, almost a century after Portuguese and Spanish empires) was responsible for the transportation of 3.5 million African slaves to the Americas, a third of all slaves transported across the Atlantic. The Holy Roman Empire dissolved in 1806 by the French Revolutionary Wars; abolition of the Roman Catholic Inquisition followed.\n\nIn early-19th century the systematic urbanisation process (migration from villages in search of jobs to places where factories were set up) had began, and the concentration of labour into factories led to the rise in the population of the towns particularly (world population had been rising as well, it is estimated it reached one billion for the first time in 1804), while the new philosophical movement later known as Romanticism originated after the previous Reason of the 1600s and Enlightenment of 1700s, that enabled 19th century \"Western world\"'s sustained economic development.\n\nBefore the urbanisation and industrialization of the 1800s, demand for oriental goods such as porcelain, silk, spices and tea remained the driving force behind European imperialism in Asia, and (with the important exception of British East India Company rule in India) the European stake in Asia remained confined largely to trading stations and strategic outposts necessary to protect trade. Industrialisation, however, dramatically increased European demand for Asian raw materials; and the severe Long Depression of the 1870s provoked a scramble for new markets for European industrial products and financial services in Africa, the Americas, Eastern Europe, and especially in Asia (Western powers exploited their advantages in China for example by the Opium Wars), and resulted in so-called \"New Imperialism\", which saw a shift in focus between trade, indirect rule and formal colonial control of vast overseas territories ruled as political extensions of their mother countries. The later years of the 19th century saw the transition from \"informal imperialism\" (hegemony) by military influence and economic dominance, to direct rule (a revival of colonial imperialism) in the African continent and Middle East.\n\nBetween the 1870s and 1914 (so-called Beautiful Era, socioeconomically optimistic and innovative decades by the Second Industrial Revolution), the established colonial powers in Asia (United Kingdom, France, Netherlands) added to their empires also vast expanses of territory in the Indian Subcontinent and South East Asia. Japan was involved primarily in the so-called Meiji period (1868–1912), though earlier contact with the Portuguese, the Spaniards and the Dutch were also present in the recognition of European nations as strategically important to the Japanese Empire. The traditional Japanese society was virtually overturned into an industrial and militarist power like Western countries such as the United Kingdom, the French Third Republic, and similarly to the German Empire, the Russian Empire, and the United States, following the Spanish–American War in 1898, quickly emerged as new imperial powers in East Asia and in the Pacific Ocean area. By 1913, the British Empire held sway over 412 million people, of the world population at the time, and by 1920, it covered , of the Earth's total land area: at its apex, the phrase \"the empire on which the sun never sets\" was often used to describe the British Empire, because its expanse around the globe meant that the sun was always shining on at least one of its territories. As a result, its political, legal, linguistic and cultural legacy is widespread throughout the \"Western World\".\n\nIn the aftermath of the Second World War, decolonizing efforts were employed by all Western powers under United Nations (ex-League of Nations) international directives.\n\nThough the overt colonial era has passed, Western nations, as comparatively rich, well-armed, and culturally powerful states, still wielded a large degree of influence throughout the world.\n\nDuring the Cold War, a new definition emerged. Earth was divided into three \"worlds\". The First World, analogous in this context to what was called \"the West\", was composed of NATO members and other countries aligned with the United States. The Second World was the Eastern bloc in the Soviet sphere of influence, including the Soviet Union (15 republics including presently independent Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania) and Warsaw Pact countries like Poland, Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, East Germany (now united with Germany), Czechoslovakia (now split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia).\n\nThe Third World consisted of countries, many of which were unaligned with either, and important members included India, Yugoslavia, Finland (Finlandization) and Switzerland (Swiss Neutrality); some include the People's Republic of China, though this is disputed, since the People's Republic of China, as communist, had friendly relations — at certain times — with the Soviet bloc, and had a significant degree of importance in global geopolitics. Some Third World countries aligned themselves with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led Eastern bloc.\n\nA number of countries did not fit comfortably into this neat definition of partition, including Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, and Ireland, which chose to be neutral. Finland was under the \"Soviet Union's\" military sphere of influence (see FCMA treaty) but remained neutral and was not communist, nor was it a member of the Warsaw Pact or Comecon but a member of the EFTA since 1986, and was west of the Iron Curtain. In 1955, when Austria again became a fully independent republic, it did so under the condition that it remain neutral, but as a country to the west of the Iron Curtain, it was in the \"United States\"' sphere of influence. Spain did not join the NATO until 1982, towards the end of the Cold War and after the death of the authoritarian Franco.\n\nDuring the Cold War II, a new definition emerged. More specifically, Cold War II, also known as the Second Cold War, New Cold War, Cold War Redux, Cold War 2.0, and Colder War, refers to the tensions, hostilities, and political rivalry that intensified dramatically in 2014 between the Russian Federation on the one hand, and the United States, European Union, NATO and some other countries on the other hand. Tensions escalated in 2014 after Russia's annexation of Crimea, military intervention in Ukraine, and the 2015 Russian military intervention in the Syrian Civil War. By August 2014, both sides had implemented economic, financial, and diplomatic sanctions upon each other: virtually all Western countries, led by the US and EU, imposed restrictive measures on Russia; the latter reciprocally introduced retaliatory measures.\n\nThe exact scope of the \"Western world\" is somewhat subjective in nature, depending on whether cultural, economic, spiritual or political criteria are employed. It is a generally accepted western view to recognize the existence of at least three \"major worlds\" (or \"cultures\", or \"civilizations\"), broadly in contrast with the Western: the \"Eastern world\", the \"Arab\" and the \"African\" worlds, with no clearly specified boundaries. Additionally, \"Latin American\" and \"Orthodox\" worlds are sometimes separately considered \"akin\" to the West.\n\nMany anthropologists, sociologists and historians oppose \"the West and the Rest\" in a categorical manner. The same has been done by Malthusian demographers with a sharp distinction between European and non-European family systems. Among anthropologists, this includes Durkheim, Dumont and Lévi-Strauss.\n\nAs the term \"Western world\" does not have a strict international definition, governments do not use the term in legislation of international treaties and instead rely on other definitions.\n\nIn modern usage, \"Western world\" refers to Europe and to areas whose populations largely originate from Europe, through the Age of Discovery's imperialism.\n\nIn the 20th century, Christianity declined in influence in many Western countries, mostly in the European Union where some member states have experienced falling church attendance and membership in recent years, and also elsewhere. Secularism (separating religion from politics and science) increased. However, while church attendance is in decline, in some western countries (i.e. Italy, Poland and Portugal) more than half the people state that religion is important, and most Westerners nominally identify themselves as Christians (e.g. 59% in the United Kingdom) and attend church on major occasions, such as Christmas and Easter. In the Americas, Christianity continues to play an important societal role, though in areas such as Canada, low level of religiosity is common as a result of experiencing processes of secularization similar to European ones. The official religions of the United Kingdom and some Nordic countries are forms of Christianity, even though the majority of European countries have no official religion. Despite this, Christianity, in its different forms, remains the largest faith in most Western countries.\n\nChristianity remains the dominant religion in the \"Western world\", where 70% are Christians. A 2011 Pew Research Center survey found that 76.2% of Europeans, 73.3% in Oceania, and about 86.0% in the Americas (90% in Latin America and 77.4% in North America) described themselves as Christians.\n\n\"Western world\" countries also, are the most keen on digital and televisual media technologies, as they were in the postwar period on television and radio: from 2000 to 2014, internet's market penetration was twice that of non-\"Western\" regions.\n\nThe term \"Western world\" is sometimes interchangeably used with the term First World or developed countries, stressing the difference between First World and the Third World or developing countries. This usage occurs despite the fact that many countries that may be culturally \"Western\" are developing countries - in fact, a significant percentage of the Americas are developing countries. It is also used despite many developed countries or regions not being Western (e.g. Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao, Qatar, Israel), and therefore left out when \"Western world\" is used to denote developed countries. Privatization policies (involving government enterprises and public services) and multinational corporations are often considered a visible sign of Western nations's economic presence, especially in Third World countries, and represent common institutional environment for powerful politicians, enterprises, trade unions and firms, bankers and thinkers of the \"Western world\".\nThe existence of \"The North\" implies the existence of \"The South\", and the socio-economic divide between North and South. The term \"the North\" has in some contexts replaced earlier usage of the term \"the West\", particularly in the critical sense, as a more robust demarcation than the terms \"West\" and \"East\". The North provides some absolute geographical indicators for the location of wealthy countries, most of which are physically situated in the Northern Hemisphere, although, as most countries are located in the northern hemisphere in general, some have considered this distinction equally unhelpful. Modern financial services and technologies are largely developed by Western nations: Bitcoin, most known digital currency is subject to skepticism in the Eastern world whereas Western nations are more open to it.\n\nControversial American conservative political scientist, adviser and academic Samuel P. Huntington considered Latin America and the Orthodox world somewhat distinct from his conception of the \"Western world\" for his geopolitical analysis. However he further dwells on the subject by stating that while in general researchers consider that the \"West\" has three main components, European, North America and Latin American. In his view, Latin America has followed a different development path from Europe and North America. Although it is a scion of European civilization, it also incorporates, to an extent, elements of indigenous American civilizations, absent from North America and Europe. It has had a corporatist and authoritarian culture that Europe had to a much lesser extent and America did not have at all. Both Europe and North America felt the effects of the Reformation and combined Catholic and Protestant culture. Historically, Latin America has been only Catholic, although this may be changing due to the influx of Protestants into the region. Some regions in Latin America incorporates indigenous cultures, which did not exist in Europe, and which were effectively annihilated in North America, and whose importance oscillates between two extremes: Mexico, Central America, Peru and Bolivia, on the one hand, and Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay on the other. However, he does mention that the modus operandi of the Catholic Church was to incorporate native elements of pagan European cultures into the general dogma of Catholicism, and the Native American elements could be perceived in the same way. Subjectively, Latin Americans themselves are divided when it comes to identifying themselves. Some say: \"Yes, we are part of the West.\" Others say: \"No, we have our own unique culture\"; and a vast bibliographical material produced by Latin Americans and North Americans exposes in detail their cultural differences. Huntington goes on to mention that Latin America could be considered a sub-civilization within Western civilization, or a separate civilization, intimately related to the West and divided as to its belonging to it. While for an analysis focused on the international political consequences of civilizations, including relations between Latin America, on the one hand, and North America and Europe, on the other, the second option is the most appropriate and useful; he also mentions that the underlying conflict of Latin American belonging to the West must be eventually addressed in order to develop a cohesive Latin American identity. Huntington's view has, however, been contested on a number of occasions as biased.\n\nA series of scholars of civilization, including Arnold J. Toynbee, Alfred Kroeber and Carroll Quigley have identified and analyzed \"Western civilization\" as one of the civilizations that have historically existed and still exist today. Toynbee entered into quite an expansive mode, including as candidates those countries or cultures who became so heavily influenced by the West as to adopt these borrowings into their very self-identity; carried to its limit, this would in practice include almost everyone within the West, in one way or another. In particular, Toynbee refers to the \"intelligentsia\" formed among the educated elite of countries impacted by the European expansion of centuries past. While often pointedly nationalist, these cultural and political leaders interacted within the West to such an extent as to change both themselves and the West.\n\nThe theologian and paleontologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin conceived of the West as the set of civilizations descended from the Nile Valley Civilization of Egypt.\n\nPalestinian-American literary critic Edward Said uses the term occident in his discussion of orientalism. According to his binary, the West, or Occident, created a romanticized vision of the East, or Orient to justify colonial and imperialist intentions. This Occident-Orient binary focuses on the Western vision of the East instead of any truths about the East. His theories are rooted in Hegel's Master-slave dialectic: The Occident would not exist without the Orient and vice versa. Further, Western writers created this irrational, feminine, weak \"Other\" to contrast with the rational, masculine, strong West because of a need to create a difference between the two that would justify imperialist ambitions, according to the Said-influenced Indian-American theorist Homi K. Bhabha.\nFrom a very different perspective, it has also been argued that the idea of the West is, in part, a non-Western invention, deployed in the non-West to shape and define non-Western pathways through or against modernity.\n\nAccording to Samuel P. Huntington, Turkey, whose political leadership has systematically tried to Westernize the predominantly Muslim country with only 3% of its territory within Europe since the 1920s, is his chief example of a \"torn country\" that is attempting to join Western civilization. The country's elite started the Westernization efforts, beginning with Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, who took power as the first president of the modern Turkish nation-state in 1923, imposed western institutions and dress, removed the Arabic alphabet and embraced the Latin alphabet, joined NATO, and are seeking to join the European Union since the 1960s with very slow progress. Mexico and Russia are also considered to be torn by Huntington. He also gives the example of Australia as a country torn between its Western civilizational heritage and its growing economic engagement with Asia. Russia, Japan, and India also, are what Huntington terms 'swing civilizations'.\n\n"}
{"id": "18919204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919204", "title": "Zavadykh", "text": "Zavadykh\n\nZavadykh (also, Tsovategh ) is a village in the Martuni Province of the de facto Republic of Artsakh, de jure part of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n"}
