{"id": "56130617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130617", "title": "Alcohol in Bangladesh", "text": "Alcohol in Bangladesh\n\nAlcohol in Bangladesh is regulated and restricted in Bangladesh. Bangladesh has one of the lowest alcohol consumption in Asia according to a World Bank that came out in 2015.\n\nThe first distillery was setup in what is today Bangladesh in 1887 by an Englishman named Robert Russell Carew. The company was called Carew & Co (Bangladesh) Ltd and it was nationalised by the government of Bangladesh in 1973. The distillery is part of the Darsana Sugar Mill owned by the state owned enterprise Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation. It is the only sugar out of 15 state-owned mills that make a profit due to the distillery. The distillery produces rum, brandy, gin and whisky.\nIn 2003 the government of Bangladesh gave Jamuna Distillery Limited of Jamuna Group the licence to produce alcoholic beverages. Jamuna Distillery Limited was the first private company to be given licence to produce alcohol which ended the monopoly of the state owned Carew & Co (Bangladesh) Ltd. Alcohol is sold in 5 star hotels and government licensed bars. In 2009 Jamuna launched Hunter branded beer in Bangladesh. \n\nUnder Bangladeshi law, any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol is considered an alcoholic beverage. A government permit is necessary for selling, storing and the transport of alcohol. To drink alcohol in Bangladesh, one must have a legal permit. Muslims will need a medical prescription to obtain an alcohol permit. The prescription must be given by an associate professor of the medical college or a civil surgeon. \n"}
{"id": "13826991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13826991", "title": "Animal nutritionist", "text": "Animal nutritionist\n\nAn animal nutritionist is a person who specializes in animal nutrition, which is especially concerned with the dietary needs of animals in captivity: livestock, pets, and animals in wildlife rehabilitation facilities.\n\nThe science of animal nutrition encompasses principles of chemistry (especially biochemistry), physics, mathematics, ethology (animal behavior). An animal nutrition in the food industry may also be concerned with economics and food processing.\n\nA Bachelor of Science in agricultural, biological or related life sciences is usually required. A typical course would study metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, minerals, vitamins and water, and the relationship of these nutrients and animal production. A Master’s degree in nutrition is often seen in animal nutrition and the field often requires a Ph.D. in the science of nutrition.\n\nThose with an educational background can expect to be employed in the following areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27633526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27633526", "title": "Biological plausibility", "text": "Biological plausibility\n\nIn epidemiology and biomedicine, the term biological plausibility refers to the proposal of a causal association — a relationship between a putative cause and an outcome — that is consistent with existing biological and medical knowledge.\n\nBiological plausibility is one component of a method of reasoning that can establish a cause-and-effect relationship between a biological factor and a particular disease or adverse event. It is also an important part of the process of evaluating whether a proposed therapy (drug, vaccine, surgical procedure, etc.) has a real benefit to a patient. This concept has application to many controversial public affairs debates, such as that over the causes of adverse vaccination outcomes.\n\nBiological plausibility is an essential element of the intellectual background of epidemiology. The term originated in the seminal work of determining the causality of smoking-related disease (\"The Surgeon General’s Advisory Committee on Smoking and Health\" [1964]).\n\nIt is generally agreed that to be considered “causal”, the association between a biological factor and a disease (or other bad outcome) should be biologically coherent. That is to say, it should be plausible and explicable biologically according to the known facts of the natural history and biology of the disease in question.\n\nOther important criteria in evaluations of disease and adverse event causality include consistency, strength of association, specificity and a meaningful temporal relationship. These are known collectively as the Bradford-Hill criteria, after the great English epidemiologist who proposed them in 1965. However, Austin Bradford Hill himself de-emphasized \"plausibility\" among the other criteria:\n\nIt will be helpful if the causation we suspect is biologically plausible. But this is a feature I am convinced we cannot demand. What is biologically plausible depends upon the biological knowledge of the day. To quote again from my Alfred Watson Memorial Lecture [1962], there was\n\nIn short, the association we observe may be one new to science or medicine and we must not dismiss it too light-heartedly as just too odd. As Sherlock Holmes advised Dr. Watson, \"when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.\"\n\nThe preliminary research leading up to a randomized clinical trial (RCT) of a drug or biologic has been termed \"plausibility building\". This involves the gathering and analysis of biochemical, tissue or animal data which are eventually found to point to a mechanism of action or to demonstrate the desired biological effect. This process is said to confer biological plausibility. Since large, definitive RCTs are extremely expensive and labor-intensive, only sufficiently promising therapies are thought to merit the attention and effort of final confirmation (or refutation) in them.\n\nIn distinction to \"biological plausibility\", clinical data from epidemiological studies, case reports, case series and small, formal open or controlled clinical trials may confer \"clinical plausibility\". According to the strictest criteria, a therapy is sufficiently scientifically plausible to merit the time and expense of definitive testing only if it is either biologically or clinically plausible. It has been observed that, despite its importance, biological plausibility is lacking for most complementary and alternative medicine therapies.\n"}
{"id": "1599216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599216", "title": "Biomagnification", "text": "Biomagnification\n\nBiomagnification, also known as bioamplification or biological magnification, is the increasing concentration of a substance, such as a toxic chemical, in the tissues of tolerant organisms at successively higher levels in a food chain. This increase can occur as a result of:\nBiological magnification often refers to the process whereby certain substances such as pesticides or heavy metals work their way into lakes, rivers and the ocean, and then move up the food chain in progressively greater concentrations as they are incorporated into the diet of aquatic organisms such as zooplankton, which in turn are eaten perhaps by fish, which then may be eaten by bigger fish, large birds, animals, or humans. The substances become increasingly concentrated in tissues or internal organs as they move up the chain. Bioaccumulants are substances that increase in concentration in living organisms as they take in contaminated air, water, or food because the substances are very slowly metabolized or excreted.\n\nAlthough sometimes used interchangeably with \"bioaccumulation\", an important distinction is drawn between the two, and with bioconcentration.\nThus, bioconcentration and bioaccumulation occur within an organism, and biomagnification occurs across trophic (food chain) levels.\n\nBiodilution is also a process that occurs to all trophic levels in an aquatic environment; it is the opposite of biomagnification, thus when a pollutant gets smaller in concentration as it progresses up a food web.\n\nLipid, (lipophilic) or fat soluble substances cannot be diluted, broken down, or excreted in urine, a water-based medium, and so accumulate in fatty tissues of an organism, if the organism lacks enzymes to degrade them. When eaten by another organism, fats are absorbed in the gut, carrying the substance, which then accumulates in the fats of the predator. Since at each level of the food chain there is a lot of energy loss, a predator must consume many prey, including all of their lipophilic substances.\n\nFor example, though mercury is only present in small amounts in seawater, it is absorbed by algae (generally as methylmercury). Methyl-mercury is the most harmful variation of mercury. It is efficiently absorbed, but only very slowly excreted by organisms. Bioaccumulation and bioconcentration result in buildup in the adipose tissue of successive trophic levels: zooplankton, small nekton, larger fish, etc. Anything which eats these fish also consumes the higher level of mercury the fish have accumulated. This process explains why predatory fish such as swordfish and sharks or birds like osprey and eagles have higher concentrations of mercury in their tissue than could be accounted for by direct exposure alone. For example, herring contains mercury at approximately 0.01 parts per million (ppm) and shark contains mercury at greater than 1 ppm.\n\nDDT is thought to biomagnify and biomagnification is one of the most significant reasons it was deemed harmful to the environment by the EPA and other organizations. DDT is stored in the fat of animals and takes many years to break down, and as the fat is consumed by predators, the amounts of DDT biomagnify. DDT is now a banned substance in many parts of the world.\n\nIn a review of a large number of studies, Suedel et al. concluded that although biomagnification is probably more limited in occurrence than previously thought, there is good evidence that DDT, DDE, PCBs, toxaphene, and the organic forms of mercury and arsenic do biomagnify in nature. For other contaminants, bioconcentration and bioaccumulation account for their high concentrations in organism tissues. More recently, Gray reached a similar substances remaining in the organisms and not being diluted to non-threatening concentrations. The success of top predatory-bird recovery (bald eagles, peregrine falcons) in North America following the ban on DDT use in agriculture is testament to the importance of biomagnification.\n\nThere are two main groups of substances that biomagnify. Both are lipophilic and not easily degraded. Novel organic substances are not easily degraded because organisms lack previous exposure and have thus not evolved specific detoxification and excretion mechanisms, as there has been no selection pressure from them. These substances are consequently known as \"persistent organic pollutants\" or POPs.\n\nMetals are not degradable because they are elements. Organisms, particularly those subject to naturally high levels of exposure to metals, have mechanisms to sequester and excrete metals. Problems arise when organisms are exposed to higher concentrations than usual, which they cannot excrete rapidly enough to prevent damage. Some persistent heavy metals are especially dangerous and harmful to the organism's reproductive system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5976304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5976304", "title": "Calmness", "text": "Calmness\n\nCalmness is the mental state of peace of mind being free from agitation, excitement, or disturbance. It also refers being in a state of serenity, tranquillity, or peace. Calmness can most easily occur for the average person during a state of relaxation, but it can also be found during much more alert and aware states. Some people find that focusing the mind on something external, or even internal, such as the breathing, can itself be very calming.\n\nCalmness is a quality that can be cultivated and increased with practice. It usually takes a trained mind to stay calm in the face of a great deal of different stimulation, and possible distractions, especially emotional ones. The negative emotions are the greatest challenge to someone who is attempting to cultivate a calm mind. Some disciplines that promote and develop calmness are prayer, yoga, relaxation training, breath training, and meditation. Jon Kabat-Zinn states that “Concentration is a cornerstone of mindfulness practice. Your mindfulness will only be as robust as the capacity of your mind to be calm and stable. Without calmness, the mirror of mindfulness will have an agitated and choppy surface and will not be able to reflect things with any accuracy.” \n\nAnother term usually associated with calmness is \"Peace\". A mind that is at peace or calm will cause the brain to produce \"good\" hormones, which in turn give the person a stable emotional state and promote good health in every area of life, including marriage. Seeing the rise in crime and diseases around the world which are more often than not the consequences of the emotions going 'out-of-control', it is therefore considered beneficial for many to stay calm and cultivate it in every possible situation, especially during stressful events such as demise of a family member or failure in business.\n\nThe term comes from Middle English calme, from Old French, from Old Italian calmo, from Late Latin cauma, \"heat of the day\", the \"resting place in the heat of the day\", from Greek kauma, burning heat, from kaiein, to burn.\n\n"}
{"id": "38655980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38655980", "title": "Carl Bergmann (anatomist)", "text": "Carl Bergmann (anatomist)\n\nCarl Georg Lucas Christian Bergmann (18 May 1814 – 30 April 1865) was a German anatomist, physiologist and biologist who developed the Bergmann's rule.\n\nIn 1838 Bergmann received his medical doctorate at the University of Göttingen, and later on, served as \"Obermedicinalrath\" and as a professor of anatomy and physiology at the University of Rostock. Between 1839 and 1862 he published a series of papers on comparative anatomy in Johannes Peter Müller's \"Archiv für Anatomie, Physiologie und wissenschaftliche Medicin\".\n\nHe obtained his habilitation at the University of Göttingen and was named an associate professor in 1843. From October 1852 he was a full professor and a member of the Medicinal Commission in Rostock. In 1861 he was appointed \"Obermedicinalrath\". He died in Geneva on April 30, 1865, on his return from Menton, where he had spent the winter because of health problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "1401706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1401706", "title": "Contagious disease", "text": "Contagious disease\n\nA contagious disease is a subset category of transmissible diseases, which are transmitted to other persons, either by physical contact with the person suffering the disease, or by casual contact with their secretions or objects touched by them or airborne route among other routes.\n\nNon-contagious infections, by contrast, usually require a special mode of transmission between persons or hosts. These include need for intermediate vector species (mosquitoes that carry malaria) or by non-casual transfer of bodily fluid (such as transfusions, needle sharing or sexual contact).\nThe boundary between contagious and non-contagious infectious diseases is not perfectly drawn, as illustrated classically by tuberculosis, which is clearly transmissible from person to person, but was not classically considered a contagious disease. In the present day, most sexually transmitted diseases are considered contagious, but only some of them are subject to medical isolation.\n\nOriginally, the term referred to a \"contagion\" (a derivative of 'contact') or disease transmissible only by direct physical contact. In the modern day, the term has sometimes been broadened to encompass \"any\" communicable or infectious disease. Often the word can only be understood in context, where it is used to emphasise very infectious, easily transmitted, or especially severe communicable disease.\n\nMost epidemics are caused by contagious diseases, with occasional exceptions, such as yellow fever. The spread of non-contagious communicable diseases is changed either very little or not at all by medical isolation of ill persons or medical quarantine for exposed persons. Thus, a \"contagious disease\" is sometimes defined in practical terms, as a disease for which isolation or quarantine are useful public health responses.\n"}
{"id": "54736719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54736719", "title": "Cracked nipple", "text": "Cracked nipple\n\nCracked nipple (or \"nipple trauma\") is a condition that can occur in breastfeeding women as a result of a number of possible causes. Developing a cracked nipple can result in soreness, dryness or irritation to, or bleeding of, one or both nipples during breastfeeding. The mother with a cracked nipple can have severe nipple pain when the baby is nursing. This severe pain is a disincentive for continued breastfeeding. The crack can appear as a cut across the tip of the nipple and may extend to its the base. Cracked nipples develop after the birth of the infant and is managed with pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment.\n\nCracked nipples are classified as a breast disorder. The nipple is not only the structure to deliver milk to the infant, it also contains small, sebaceous glands or Montgomery glands to lubricate the skin of the areola. Cracked nipples are most often associated with breastfeeding and appear as cracks or small lacerations or breaks in the skin of the nipple. In some instances an ulcer will form. The nipple in a nursing mother is in regular contact with a nursing infant. Cracked nipples are trauma to the nipple and can be quite painful. Cracked nipples typically appear three to seven days after the birth.\n\nIf the nipples appears to be wedge-shaped, white and flattened, this may indicate that the latch is not good and there is a potential of developing cracked nipples.\n\nBacteria can enter the breast through cracked nipples, which increase the risk of mastitis. Candida infection (thrush) of the nipple can also occur, resulting in deep-pink, cracked, and sore nipples.\n\nBecause cracked nipples can result in the infant being exposed to blood, women with certain blood-borne diseases may be advised to stop breastfeeding if they have a cracked nipple. It has been found safe for breastfeeding mothers with hepatitis B and cracked nipples to breastfeed. In the event that a nursing woman experiences cracked and bleeding nipples or breast inflammation within one to two weeks immediately following an acute Toxoplasmosis infection (when the organism is still circulating in her bloodstream), it is theoretically possible that she could transmit \"Toxoplasma gondii\" to the infant through her breast milk. Immune suppressed women could have circulating Toxoplasma for even longer periods of time. However, the likelihood of human milk transmission is very small. Transmission risk of HIV increases if the mother has cracked and bleeding nipples An uncommon infection in the mother, Chagas disease, can be transmitted to the nursing infant via cracked nipples. Women with hepatitis C are advised to abstain from breastfeeding if their nipples are cracked or bleeding.\n\nSome studies indicate that cracked nipples are caused by poor latch. Yet other causes could be poor positioning, use of a feeding bottle, breast engorgement, inexperience, semi-protruding nipples, use of breast pumps and light pigmentation of the nipples. Breast engorgement is also a main factor in altering the ability of the infant to latch-on. Engorgement changes the shape and curvature of the nipple region by making the breast inflexible, flat, hard, and swollen. The nipples on an engorged breast are flat.\n\nWhen the baby is latched on correctly, the nipple is located against the soft palate in the back of the baby's mouth. When the nipple is near the front of the mouth and being pinched against the hard palate, this will cause pain and development of cracked nipples. One cause of painful, cracked nipples is the incorrect positioning and incorrect latching on to the breast by the infant. The baby can create cracked nipples due to the strong sucking pressure, stretching and pulling the nipple, the friction and rubbing of skin to skin. The cause of sore, cracked nipples can also be from a yeast or Candida infection in the baby or the mother or both. Thrush can develop after the use of antibiotics. For first-time breastfeeding mothers, it normally takes a few tries before the latch is right, which can make the nipples tender and sore the first few days. If the nipples become cracked or bleed, the latch may need to be corrected. Women are advised to keep on breastfeeding, as it will actually help the nipples heal. A little breast milk or purified lanolin cream or ointment helps the healing process.\n\nIf a feeding bottle is used in addition to breastfeeding, cracked nipples may result because the different sucking techniques required for the bottle and the breast vary. Bottle-feeding babies uses his or her tongue to regulate the flow of milk. This same technique will cause friction on the nipple while breastfeeding. This in turn encourages the continued use of the bottle with less time breastfeeding.\n\nPain caused by cracked nipples can sometimes lead to the cessation of breast-feeding. In addition to cracks, or blisters or ulcers can form.\n\nThe nipples of nursing mothers naturally make a lubricant to prevent drying, cracking, or infections. Cracked nipples may be able to be prevented by:\n\n\nRoman chamomile can be applied directly to the skin for pain and swelling and is used to treat cracked nipples.\n\nCracked nipples can be treated with 100% lanolin. Glycerin nipple pads can be chilled and placed over the nipples to help soothe and heal cracked or painful nipples. If the cause of cracked nipples is from thrush, treatment is usually begun with nystatin. If the mother is symptomatic then the mother and the baby can be treated. Continuing to breastfeed will actually help the nipples heal. A little breast milk or purified lanolin cream or ointment helps the healing process. Breastfeeding professionals that include nurses, midwives and lactation consultants are able to assist in the treatment of cracked nipples.\n\nAdvice from others is abundant but there have been some treatments that have been identified as not being effective in healing or preventing cracked nipples. These ineffective treatments are keeping the breastfeeding short and using a nipple guard. Keeping the feedings short so that the nipples can rest is not effective in relieving the pain of cracked nipples and it could have a negative effect on the milk supply. Nipple shields do not improve latching on.\n\nIn a survey in New York City, 35% of nursing mothers stopped breastfeeding after one week due to the pain of cracked nipples. Thirty percent stopped breastfeeding between weeks one and three. Another survey of breastfeeding mothers in Brazil reported that there was 25% higher risk of interruption of exclusive breastfeeding when the women had cracked nipples. Mothers with higher education levels were more likely to continue breastfeeding despite the pain of cracked nipples.\n\nThe importance of preventing cracked nipples while breastfeeding has been reported. In an informal survey of breastfeeding in the UK, some mothers reported that they stopped breastfeeding because the cracked nipples made it too painful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13429326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13429326", "title": "EUFIC", "text": "EUFIC\n\nEUFIC, the European Food Information Council, is a non-profit organisation that provides science-based facts on food and health in an accessible, appealing and actionable way.\n\nSince 1995, EUFIC has strived to inspire and empower people to make better decisions about diet and lifestyle. \nEUFIC’s passionate science and communication experts who believe in the power of informed consumers.\n\nEUFIC communicates science-based information on a range of food and health topics, like nutrition and lifestyle, food safety and quality, food labelling, and risk communication. The science on specific topics and public debate around it are considered, to make sure the materials are relevant, and reflect the scientific consensus. EUFIC’s qualified staff then put the scientific facts into plain language, making them understandable to the general public, and practical for use by health professionals and educators. EUFIC also carries out consumer research, to discover people’s perceptions, views and preferences.\n\nEUFIC works with Scientific Advisory and Editorial Boards, and with independent experts on specific projects, who advise on the scientific direction, and ensure the accuracy and impartiality of the work. The main objective is to present a balanced view of the scientific evidence, to allow the readers to make their own informed decisions.\n\nThe website in 12 languages has the Health On the Net certification, which verifies that content complies with a multi-stakeholder consensus on standards, to protect citizens from misleading health information. The organisation also hosts Cool Food Planet, a website for 6–12 years old to learn about healthy diet and lifestyle and food safety.\n\nWith its offices in Brussels, EUFIC liaises with a European network to enhance its impact and outreach in other countries.\n\nEUFIC is funded by individual food and drink companies, the European Commission, foundations, umbrella organisations, and from sales of publications.\n\nEUFIC participates in research projects funded by the European Commission’s Framework Programmes (FP6, FP7, and H2020). Since 2004, EUFIC has taken part in a number of projects with a main role as a communication and outreach lead, but also contributing with consumer research, and stakeholder engagement.\n\nLed by the European Commission, the EU platform for action on diet, physical activity and health is a forum for the food industry, professional associations, and consumer protection NGOs, willing to commit to tackling current trends in diet and physical activity. EUFIC is actively involved via several commitments, some of which joint with the European Federation of Associations of Dietitians (EFAD), and the European Association for the Study of Obesity (EASO).\n\nJPI HDHL focuses on coordinating European research in food, nutrition, and health. EUFIC participates in its Stakeholder Advisory Board, offering advice on information exchange with other bodies and stakeholders in the field.\n\nEuropean Technology Platforms (ETPs) are industry-led stakeholder fora, recognised by the European Commission as key actors in driving innovation, knowledge transfer, and competitiveness. EUFIC has participated in establishing research priorities in the area of food and consumers.\n\nENLP is a network of 800 leaders in nutrition in Europe, founded to educate and inspire the new leaders, ensuring an impact on nutrition and health in Europe. EUFIC’s team members contribute to its work, among others, by serving as a board member, by leading the fundraising team, and acting as director of the advanced leadership training programme.\n\nEUFIC participates in an informal global network of food information organisations and partner organisations that share the common goal of communicating science-based information on healthy lifestyle, nutrition and food safety.\n"}
{"id": "9517113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9517113", "title": "Edward Bright", "text": "Edward Bright\n\nEdward Bright (1721–1750) was a grocer in Maldon, Essex, England — known as the \"fat man of Maldon\" — who was reputed at the time of his death in 1750 to be the \"fattest man in England\". He lived in a house on Maldon's High Street, and is buried in Maldon's Church of All Saints.\n\nBright weighed 47.5 stone (665 lb or 302 kg).\n\nHis coat was said to be large enough to have seven men stand inside it, although this is also sometimes stated as \"seven hundred men\" because of a tale in which a man in a local pub tempted a gambler with a bet that \"seven hundred men\" would fit into Edward Bright’s waistcoat. The bet was accepted. The gambler lost, because seven men from the Dengie Hundred (a parcel of land) fit into the waistcoat.\n\nHis portrait was painted in 1750 by David Ogborne (1700–1768), after whose painting various etchings were published, including:\n\nIn 2000, a bronze relief of seven men in Bright's coat, by sculptor Catharni Stern, was installed at the King's Head Centre off Maldon's High Street, near Bright's former home.\n\n"}
{"id": "47390498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47390498", "title": "Fascia training", "text": "Fascia training\n\nFascia training describes sports activities and movement exercises that attempt to improve the functional properties of the muscular connective tissues in the human body, such as tendons, ligaments, joint capsules and muscular envelopes. Also called fascia, these tissues take part in a body-wide tensional force transmission network and are responsive to training stimulation.\n\nWhenever muscles and joints are moved this also exerts mechanical strain on related fascia. The general assumption in sports science had therefore been that muscle strength exercises as well as cardiovascular training would be sufficient for an optimal training of the associate fibrous connective tissues. However, recent ultrasound-based research revealed that the mechanical threshold for a training effect on tendinous tissues tends to be significantly higher than for muscle fibers. This insight happened roughly during the same time in which the field of fascia research attracted major attention by showing that fascial tissues are much more than passive transmitters of muscular tension (years 2007 – 2010). Both influences together triggered an increasing attention in sports science towards the question whether and how fascial tissues can be specifically stimulated with active exercises.\n\nFascia training follows the following principles:\n\n\nWhile good to moderate scientific evidence exists for several of the included training principles – e.g. the inclusion of elastic recoil as well as a training of proprioceptive refinement – there is currently insufficient evidence for the claimed beneficial effects of a fascia oriented exercises program as such, consisting of a combination of the above described four training elements.\n\nUse of foam rollers or a roller massager before or after exercise for self-myofascial release appears to be helpful with regard to range of motion and soreness.\n"}
{"id": "33162996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33162996", "title": "George K. Simon", "text": "George K. Simon\n\nGeorge K. Simon (born February 1, 1948) is a bestselling author and frequent weblog contributor. His wife, Sherry Simon, Ph.D., is also a professional, living and working in Little Rock.\n\nGeorge K. Simon, Jr., Ph.D. received his degree in clinical psychology from Texas Tech University. He has studied and worked with manipulators, others with disturbed personalities, and their victims for many years. He has given more than 250 workshops and seminars as well as made television and radio appearances on the subject of dealing with manipulative people and other difficult personalities.\n\nSimon's first book, \"In Sheep's Clothing: Understanding and Dealing with Manipulative People\", deals with manipulation. Simon discusses the tactics manipulators use to deceive and get the better of others. The book also offers tips on how to avoid being victimized and how to be more empowered in any relationship.\n\nHis latest book, \"Character Disturbance: the Phenomenon of Our Age\", attempts to provide an in-depth, but readily understandable explanation of the most difficult and problematic personalities a person is likely to encounter, as well as practical ways to keep from being victimized by them. The book also advances the perspective that the phenomenon of \"neurosis\", about which most traditional psychological frameworks are concerned and which was largely an outgrowth of the highly repressive Victorian culture, has faded in both prevalence and intensity in modern times. It asserts that instead, the necessary issue of greater social concern in an era of permissiveness and entitlement is character disorder, which manifests itself not so much in bizarre psychosomatic symptoms, but rather in distorted thinking patterns, problematic attitudes, and irresponsible behaviors, and Simon asserts further that these can neither be adequately understood, nor effectively dealt with, via traditional approaches.\n\nSimon has written numerous articles on character impairment for several popular weblogs, as well as for his own blog, and is the principal composer of the patriotic anthem \"America, My Home\".\n\nIn 1997 Simon appeared on the nationally syndicated The O'Reilly Report that originally aired on the Fox News Channel. In the Interview he discussed his book, \"In Sheep's Clothing: Understanding and Dealing with Manipulative People\". He also has appeared on CBS as well as Arkansas KTHV. Other appearances include, 3-18-97 \"AM Focus\" WMC NBC-Ch-4 Memphis, 3-28-97 \"Metro Monitor\" WBRC Fox Ch-6 Birmingham, 4-13-97 \"Good Morning Texas\" WFAA Dallas, 9-3-96 \"Ch 11 Evening News\" KTHV, 12-12-96 KTHV Morning Show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31488259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31488259", "title": "German Coalition for Patient Safety", "text": "German Coalition for Patient Safety\n\nThe German Coalition for Patient Safety (APS) – in German \"Aktionsbündnis Patientensicherheit (APS)\", was established in 2005 and located in Bonn is a German non-profit association of organisations and individuals interested and involved in promotion of patient safety.\n\nAPS' multidisciplinary working groups develop recommendations for patient safety activities in in- and outpatient healthcare institutions. The recommendations are available as open-access documents and distributed in healthcare institutions for free.\n\nAPS collaborates with professional and consumer associations, with societies, insurance organizations, self-governmental bodies, and research institutions. The Federal Ministry of Health is one of the organization's sponsors. APS acting together with the German Agency for Quality in Medicine is a Lead Technical Agency of the international High 5 Project.\n\nRecommendation for preventing wrong site surgery\nBased on international protocols four actions to prevent wrong-site surgery were defined: (1) asking the patient about his identity and the planned intervention, (2) marking the operation site with an indelible pen, (3) ensuring that the right patient is brought to the operating room, and (4) a “team timeout” of the operating team immediately before the intervention.\n\nRecommendation for establishing critical incident reporting systems (CIRS) in hospitals\nCIRS are voluntary reporting systems for hospital staff. Their purpose is to discover unsafe practices and to initiate safety measures before patients are harmed. APS published recommendations on how to establish CIRS in hospitals, and is partner of the \"German Hospital CIRS Network\".\n\nChecklist for medication safety in hospitals\nA checklist with a graduated scheme to measure medication safety was published as a tool for any hospital to review common activities and projects to improve medication safety.\n\nMedication list for patients\nAt the time of drug prescription doctors often do not have full information about all drugs taken by the patient. This provokes the incalculable risk of unwanted drug interactions and adverse events. APS therefore published a schedule for patients to list their medications.\n\n"}
{"id": "238789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238789", "title": "Gigantism", "text": "Gigantism\n\nGigantism, also known as giantism (from Greek γίγας, \"gígas\", \"giant\", plural γίγαντες, \"gígantes\"), is a condition characterized by excessive growth and height significantly above average. In humans, this condition is caused by over-production of growth hormone in childhood resulting in people in height.\nIt is a rare disorder resulting from increased levels of growth hormone before the fusion of the growth plate which usually occurs at some point soon after puberty. This increase is most often due to abnormal tumor growths on the pituitary gland. Gigantism should not be confused with acromegaly, the adult form of the disorder, characterized by somatic enlargement specifically in the extremities and face.\n\nGigantism is characterized by an excess of growth hormone (GH). This overproduction of growth hormone that brings about gigantism is virtually always caused by pituitary growths (adenomas). These adenomas are on the anterior pituitary gland. They can also cause overproduction of GH's hypothalamic precursor known as growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH).\n\nAs a result of the excessive amounts of growth hormone, children achieve heights that are well above normal ranges. The specific age of onset for gigantism varies between patients and gender, but the common age that excessive growth symptoms start to appear has been found to be around 13 years. Other health complications, such as hypertension, may occur in pediatric patients with hyper-secretion of growth hormone. Characteristics more similar to those seen in acromegaly may occur in patients that are closer in age to adolescence since they are nearing growth plate fusion.\n\nGrowth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) are two substances that have been identified as influencing growth plate formation and bone growth and, therefore, gigantism. Their specific mechanisms are still not well understood.\n\nMore broadly, GH and IGF have both been identified to be involved in most stages of growth: embryonic, prenatal, and postnatal. Moreover, the receptor gene for IGF has been shown to be particularly influential throughout various stages of development, especially prenatally. This is the same for GH receptor genes which have been known to drive overall growth throughout various pathways.\n\nGrowth hormone is a precursor (upstream) of IGF-I, but each has its independent role in hormonal pathways. Yet both seem to ultimately come together to have a joint effect on growth.\n\nEvaluation of growth hormone hyper-secretion cannot be excluded with a single normal GH level due to diurnal variation. However, a random blood sample showing markedly elevated GH is adequate for diagnosis of GH hyper-secretion. Additionally, a high-normal GH level that fails to suppress with administration of glucose is also sufficient for a diagnosis of GH hyper-secretion.\n\nInsulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is an excellent test for evaluation of GH hyper-secretion. It does not undergo diurnal variation and will thus be consistently elevated in GH hyper-secretion and therefore patients with gigantism. A single normal IGF-1 value will reliably exclude GH hyper-secretion.\n\nFinding a specific genetic cause for gigantism has proven to be difficult. Gigantism is the primary example of growth hormone hyper-secretion disorders, a group of illnesses that are not yet deeply understood.\n\nSome common mutations have been associated with gigantism. Pediatric gigantism patients have shown to have duplications of genes on a specific chromosome, Xq26. Typically, these patients also experienced an onset of typical gigantism symptoms before reaching the age of 5. This indicates a possible linkage between gene duplications and the gigantism.\n\nAdditionally, DNA mutations in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) gene are common in gigantism patients. They have been found to be present in about 29 percent of patients with gigantism. AIP is labeled as a tumor suppressor gene and a pituitary adenoma disposition gene.\n\nMutations in AIP sequencing can have deleterious effects by inducing the development of pituitary adenomas which in turn can cause gigantism.\n\nTwo specific mutations in the AIP gene have been identified as possible causes of pituitary adenomas. These mutations also have the ability to cause adenoma growth to occur early in life. This is typical in gigantism.\n\nAdditionally, a large variety of other known genetic disorders have been found to influence the development of gigantism such as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 and 4, McCune-Albright syndrome, Carney complex, familial isolated pituitary adenoma, X-linked acrogigantism (X-LAG).\n\nAlthough various gene mutations have been associated with gigantism, over 50 percent of cases cannot be linked to genetic causes, showing the complex nature of the disorder.\n\nMany treatments for gigantism receive criticism and are not accepted as ideal. Various treatments involving surgery and drugs have been used to treat gigantism.\n\nPegvisomant is one pharmaceutical drug which has received attention for being a possible treatment route for gigantism. Reduction of the levels of IGF-I as a result of pegvisomant administration can be incredibly beneficial for the pediatric gigantism patients.\n\nAfter treatment with pegvisomant, high growth rates, a feature characteristic of gigantism, can be significantly decreased. Pegvisomant has been seen to be a powerful alternative to other treatments such as somatostatin analogues, a common treatment method for acromegaly, if drug treatment is paired with radiation.\n\nFinding the optimal level of pegvisomant is important so normal body growth is not negatively affected. In order to do this, titration of the medication can be used as a way to find the proper administration level.\n\nSee acromegaly for additional treatment possibilities.\n\nThe term is typically applied to those whose height is not just in the upper 1% of the population but several standard deviations above mean for persons of the same sex, age, and ethnic ancestry. The term is seldom applied to those who are simply \"tall\" or \"above average\" whose heights appear to be the healthy result of normal genetics and nutrition. Gigantism is usually caused by a tumor on the pituitary gland of the brain. It causes growth of the hands, face, and feet. In some cases the condition can be passed on genetically through a mutated gene.\n\nOther names somewhat obsolete for this pathology are hypersoma (Greek: \"hyper\" over the normal level; \"soma\" body) and somatomegaly (Greek; \"soma\" body, genitive \"somatos\" of the body; \"megas\", gen. \"megalou\" great). In the past, while many of them were social outcasts because of their height, some (usually unintentionally) found employment in Friedrich Wilhelm I's famous Potsdam Giants regiment.\n\nMany of those who have been identified with gigantism have suffered from multiple health problems involving the circulatory or skeletal system, as the strain of maintaining a large, heavy body places abnormal demands on both the bones and the heart.\n\nReports of gigantism exist throughout history, with some nations and tribes taller than others. The giants of Crete are listed in various historic sources, beginning with Titan, a Greek mythological giant, and including Gigantus, after whom giants and gigantism are named. Rhodes is another island where giants were said to have lived, with the Colossus of Rhodes, a giant statue of a giant patron god Helios. Goliath, a giant mentioned in the Bible, was a Philistine warrior who was killed by David in the war between the Israelites and the Philistines. A member of Goliath's family is also recorded as having six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot.\n\n"}
{"id": "36103711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36103711", "title": "Gonadal torsion", "text": "Gonadal torsion\n\nGonadal torsion refers to torsion of the gonads. It may refer to testicular torsion or ovarian torsion.\n"}
{"id": "55532527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55532527", "title": "Good Hope Primary Hospital", "text": "Good Hope Primary Hospital\n\nGood Hope Primary Hospital is a government-run district hospital located in Good Hope, Botswana.\n\nBotswana Ministry of Health\n"}
{"id": "22279892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22279892", "title": "Gougerot–Blum syndrome", "text": "Gougerot–Blum syndrome\n\nGougerot–Blum syndrome (also known as \"pigmented purpuric lichenoid dermatitis\", and \"pigmented purpuric lichenoid dermatitis of Gougerot and Blum\") is a variant of pigmented purpuric dermatitis, a skin condition characterized by minute, rust-colored to violaceous, lichenoid papules that tend to fuse into plaques of various hues. Relative to other variants, it is characterized clinically by a male predominance, pruritus, with a predilection for the legs, and histologically, it features a densely cellular lichenoid infiltrate.\n\nIt was characterized in 1925.\n\nGougerot–Blum syndrome is named after the French dermatologists Henri Gougerot (1881–1955) and Paul Blum (1878–1933).\n\n"}
{"id": "2468967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2468967", "title": "Hexavalent chromium", "text": "Hexavalent chromium\n\nHexavalent chromium (chromium(VI), Cr(VI), chromium 6) is any chemical compound that contains the element chromium in the +6 oxidation state (thus hexavalent). Virtually all chromium ore is processed via hexavalent chromium, specifically the salt sodium dichromate. Approximately of hexavalent chromium were produced in 1985. Additional hexavalent chromium compounds are chromium trioxide and various salts of chromate and dichromate, among others. Hexavalent chromium is used in textile dyes, wood preservation, anti-corrosion products, chromate conversion coatings, and a variety of niche uses. Industrial uses of hexavalent chromium compounds include chromate pigments in dyes, paints, inks, and plastics; chromates added as anticorrosive agents to paints, primers, and other surface coatings; and chromic acid electroplated onto metal parts to provide a decorative or protective coating. Hexavalent chromium can be formed when performing \"hot work\" such as welding on stainless steel or melting chromium metal. In these situations the chromium is not originally hexavalent, but the high temperatures involved in the process result in oxidation that converts the chromium to a hexavalent state. Hexavalent chromium can also be found in drinking water and public water systems.\n\nInhaled hexavalent chromium is recognized as a human carcinogen. Workers in many occupations are exposed to hexavalent chromium. Problematic exposure is known to occur among workers who handle chromate-containing products and those who grind and/ or weld stainless steel. Workers who are exposed to hexavalent chromium are at increased risk of developing lung cancer, asthma, or damage to the nasal epithelia and skin. Within the European Union, the use of hexavalent chromium in electronic equipment is largely prohibited by the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive.\n\nHexavalent chromium compounds are genotoxic carcinogens. Due to its structural similarity to sulfate, chromate (a typical form of chromium(VI) at neutral pH) is transported into cells via sulfate channels. Inside the cell, hexavalent chromium (chromium(VI)) is reduced first to pentavalent chromium (chromium(V)) then to trivalent chromium (chromium(III)) without the aid of any enzymes. The reduction occurs via direct electron transfer primarily from ascorbate and some nonprotein thiols. Vitamin C and other reducing agents combine with chromate to give chromium(III) products inside the cell. The resultant chromium(III) forms stable complexes with nucleic acids and proteins. This causes strand breaks and Cr-DNA adducts which are responsible for mutagenic damage. According to Shi et al., the DNA can also be damaged by hydroxyl radicals produced during reoxidation of pentavalent chromium by hydrogen peroxide molecules present in the cell, which can cause double-strand breakage.\n\nBoth insoluble salts of lead and barium chromates as well as soluble chromates were negative in the implantation model of lung carcinogenesis. Yet, soluble chromates are a confirmed carcinogen so it would be prudent to consider all chromates carcinogenic.\n\nChronic inhalation from occupational exposures increases the risk of respiratory cancers. The most common form of lung malignancies in chromate workers is squamous cell carcinoma. Ingestion of chromium(VI) through drinking water has been found to cause cancer in the oral cavity and small intestine. It can also cause irritation or ulcers in the stomach and intestines, and toxicity in the liver. Liver toxicity shows the body’s apparent inability to detoxify chromium(VI) in the GI tract where it can then enter the circulatory system.\n\nOf 2,345 unsafe products in 2015 listed by the EU Commission for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality some 64% came from China, and 23% were clothing articles, including leather goods (and shoes) contaminated with hexavalent chromium. Chromate-dyed textiles or chromate-tanned leather shoes can cause skin sensitivity.\n\nIn the U.S., the OSHA PEL for airborne exposures to hexavalent chromium is 5 µg/m (0.005 mg/m). The U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health proposed a REL of 0.2 µg/m for airborne exposures to hexavalent chromium.\n\nFor drinking water the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) does not have a Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) for hexavalent chromium. California has finalized a Public Health Goal of 0.02 parts per billion (ppb or micrograms per liter) and established a MCL of 10 ppb.\n\nThere are mainly three types of methods to remediate hexavalent chromium in ground water and drinking water: 1) reduction of toxicity, 2) removal technologies and 3) containment technologies. Reduction of toxicity of hexavalent chromium involves methods using chemicals, microbes and plants. Some removal technologies include transporting contaminated soil offsite to a landfill, using ion exchange resins to reduce chromium(VI) concentrations to less than detectable limit and granular activated carbon (GAC) filter. Containment technologies can be employed with the use of physical barriers such as grouts, slurries or sheet piling. \n\nAttempts have been made to test the removal or reduction of hexavalent chromium from aqueous solutions and environment. For example, a research study conducted by the School of Industrial Technology, University Sains Malaysia in 2010 found that chitosan coated with poly 3-methyl thiophene can be effectively employed for removal of hexavalent chromium ions from aqueous solutions. Chitosan is a very cheap, economical, and environmentally friendly substrate for coating of this polymer. Adsorption of chromium(VI) is found to be effective in the lower pH range and at higher temperatures and subsequent desorption is readily achieved upon alkaline treatment of the adsorbent. Another study done by the American Industrial Hygiene Association indicates that the airborne hexavalent chromium in acidic mists of an electroplating tank collected on PVC filters was reduced over time after mist generation. A number of other emerging technologies for removing chromium from water are also currently under research, including the use of cationic metal-organic frameworks to selectively adsorb chromium oxyanions.\n\nHexavalent chromium is a constituent of tobacco smoke.\n\nHexavalent chromium was released from the Newcastle Orica Kooragang Island ammonium nitrate plant on August 8, 2011. The incident occurred when the plant entered the ‘start up’ phase after the completion of a five-yearly maintenance overhaul. The “High Temperature Shift catalyst began the process of ‘reduction’” where steam passes through the catalyst bed and out the SP8 vent stack. At this time lower temperatures in parts of the plant caused some of the steam to condense lower which caused chromium(VI) from the catalyst bed to dissolve into the liquid present. The amount of condensate overwhelmed the drainage arrangements resulting in the emission of condensate through the SP8 vent stack. The leak went undetected for 30-minutes releasing 200 kg of chromium(VI) into the atmosphere exposing up to 20 workers at the plant and 70 nearby homes in Stockton.\n\nThe town was not notified of the exposure until three days later on Wednesday morning. This accident sparked a major public controversy, with Orica criticized for playing down the extent and possible risks of the leak.\n\nThe office of Environment and Heritage in Stockton collected 71 samples. Low levels of chromium were detected in 11 of them. These 11 samples were taken within six residential blocks close to the Orica plant, two of which were from water samples collected immediately south of the six block area.\n\nThe Select Committee on the Kooragnang Island Orica Chemical Leak released their report on the incident in February 2012. They found Orica’s approach to addressing the leak’s impact was grossly inadequate. Orica failed to realize the potential impact that prevailing winds would have on an emission 60 meters high. Orica failed to inspect the area immediately downwind and notify the Office of Environment and Heritage until August 9, 2011. In Orica’s initial report to the Office of Environment and Heritage they failed to disclose that the emissions had escaped off-site. In the initial report to WorkCover Orica did not disclose potential impacts on workers as well as that the substance emitted was chromium(VI). Orica’s Emergency Response plan was not well understood by employees particularly about notification procedures. The original notification of residents in Stockton was only to households immediately downwind of the emission which failed to realize the potential for contamination of the surrounding area as well. The information presented at the original notification downplayed potential health risks and subsequently provided incomplete information and has led to a lack of trust between Stockton residents and Orica officials.\n\nIn 2014, Orica plead guilty to nine charges before the Land and Environment court and was fined $768,000. NSW Health findings ruled that it is very unlikely that anyone in Stockton will develop cancer as a result of the incident.\n\nToxic poultry feed contaminated by chromium-based leather tanning (as opposed to traditional slower vegetable tanning) is entering the food supply in Bangladesh through chicken meat, which is the most common source of protein in the country. Tanneries in Hazaribagh Thana, an industrial neighborhood of Dhaka, emit around 21,600 cubic meters of toxic waste each day. The tanneries also generate as much as 100 tonnes per day of scraps, trimmed raw hide, flesh and fat, which are processed into feed by neighborhood recycling plants and used in chicken and fish farms across the country. Chromium levels ranging from 350 to 4,520 micrograms (0.35 to 4.52 mg) per kilogram were found in different organs of chickens which had been fed the tannery-scraps feed for two months, according to Abul Hossain, a chemistry professor at the University of Dhaka. The study estimated up to 25% of the chickens in Bangladesh contained harmful levels of chromium(VI).\n\nThe chemistry of the groundwater in eastern Central Greece (central Euboea and the Asopos valley) revealed high concentrations of hexavalent chromium in groundwater systems sometimes exceeding the Greek and the EU drinking water maximum acceptable level for total chromium. Hexavalent chromium pollution here is associated with industrial waste.\n\nBy using the GFAAS for total chromium, diphenylcarbazide-Cr(VI) complex colorimetric method for hexavalent chromium, and flame-AAS and ICP-MS for other toxic elements, their concentrations were investigated in several groundwater samples. The contamination of water by hexavalent chromium in central Euboea is mainly linked to natural processes, but there are anthropogenic cases.\n\nIn the Thebes – Tanagra – Malakasa basin, Eastern Central Greece, which supports many industrial activities, concentrations of chromium (up to 80 μg/L Cr(VI)) and Inofyta (up to 53 μg/L Cr(VI) were found in the urban water supply of Oropos). Chromium(VI) concentrations ranging from 5 to 33 μg/L Cr(VI) were found in groundwater that is used for Thiva's water supply. Arsenic concentrations up to 34 μg/L along with chromium(VI) levels up to 40 μg/L were detected in Schimatari's water supply.\nIn the Asopos River, total chromium values were up to 13 μg/L, hexavalent chromium was less than 5 μg/L and other toxic elements were relatively low.\n\nIn 2008, defense contractor KBR was alleged to have exposed 16 members of the Indiana National Guard, as well as its own workers, to hexavalent chromium at the Qarmat Ali water treatment facility in Iraq in 2003. Later, 433 members of the Oregon National Guard's 162nd Infantry Battalion were informed of possible exposure to hexavalent chromium while escorting KBR contractors.\nOne of the National Guard soldiers, David Moore, died in February 2008. The cause was lung disease at age 42. His death was ruled service-related. His brother believes it was hexavalent chromium. On November 2, 2012, a Portland, Oregon jury found KBR negligent in knowingly exposing twelve National Guard soldiers to hexavalent chromium while working at the Qarmat Ali water treatment facility and awarded damages of $85 million to the plaintiffs.\n\nPrior to 1970, the federal government had limited reach in monitoring and enforcing environmental regulations. Local governments were tasked with environmental monitoring and regulations, such as the monitoring of heavy metals in wastewater. Examples of this can be seen in larger municipalities such Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. A specific example was in 1969, the Chicago Metropolitan Sanitary District imposed regulations on factories that were identified as having large amounts of heavy metal discharge.\n\nOn December 2, 1970 the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was formed. With the formation of the EPA, the federal government had the funds and the oversight to influence major environmental changes. Following the formation of the EPA, the United States saw groundbreaking legislation such as the Clean Water Act (1972) and the Safe Drinking Water Act (1974).\n\nThe Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) of 1948 was amended in 1972 to what is more commonly known as the Clean Water Act (CWA). The subsequent amendments provided a basis for the federal government to begin regulating pollutants, implement wastewater standards, and increase funding for water treatment facilities among other things. Two years later, in 1974, the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) was passed by congress. The SDWA aimed to monitor and protect the United States drinking water, and the water sources it is drawn from.\n\nAs part of the SDWA, in 1991, the EPA placed chromium under its list of maximum contaminant level goals (MCLG), to have a maximum contaminant level (MCL) of 100 ppb. In 1996, the SDWA was amended to include a provision known as the Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule (UCMR). Under this rule, the EPA issues a list of 30 or less contaminants that aren’t normally regulated under the SDWA. Chromium was monitored under the third UCMR, from January 2013 through December 2015. The EPA uses data from these reports to assist in making regulatory decisions.\n\nThe current EPA standard in measuring chromium, is in reference to total chromium, both trivalent and hexavalent. However, preliminary findings from water tests conducted by the Environmental Working Group (EWG), suggest that chromium is most often found in the hexavalent form; the more toxic of the two. Often trivalent and hexavalent chromium are mentioned together, when in fact they are very different from each other. This is an issue because hexavalent chromium can cause cancer, whereas trivalent chromium does not.\n\nIn 1991, the MCL for chromium exposure was set based on potential of “adverse dermatological effects” related to long-term chromium exposure. Chromium’s MCL of 100 ppb has not changed since its 1991 recommendation. In 1998 the EPA released a toxicological review of hexavalent chromium. This report examined current literature, at the time, and came to the conclusion that chromium was associated with various health issues.\n\nBefore the EPA can adjust the policy on chromium levels in drinking water, they have to release a final human health assessment. The EPA mentions two specific documents that are currently under review to determine whether or not to adjust the current drinking water standard for chromium. The first study the EPA mentioned that is under review is a 2008 study conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services National Toxicology Program. This study looks at chronic oral exposure of hexavalent chromium in rats, and its association with cancer. The other study mentioned is a human health assessment of chromium, titled Toxicological Review of Hexavalent Chromium. The final human health assessment is currently in the stage of draft development. This stage is the first of seven. The EPA gives no forecast to when the review will be finalized and if a decision will be made.\n\nSince World War II, the U.S. Army relied on hexavalent chromium compounds, called Cr(VI), to protect its vehicles, equipment, aviation and missile systems from corrosion. The wash primer was sprayed as a pretreatment and protective layer on bare metal.\n\nFrom 2012-2015, Army Research Laboratory conducted research on a wash primer replacement, as a part of the DoD’s effort to eliminate the use of toxic wash primers in the military. Studies indicated that Cr(VI) contained hazardous air pollutants and high levels of volatile organic compounds.\n\nThe project resulted in ARL qualifying three wash primer alternatives in 2015 for use on Army depots, installations and repair facilities. The research led to the removal of chromate products from Army facilities in 2017.\n\nARL’s researchers won the fiscal 2016 Secretary of the Army Award for Environmental Excellence in Weapon System Acquisition for their efforts on the wash primer replacement.\n\nIn 2010, the Environmental Working Group studied the drinking water in 35 American cities. The study was the first nationwide analysis measuring the presence of the chemical in U.S. water systems. The study found measurable hexavalent chromium in the tap water of 31 of the cities sampled, with Norman, Oklahoma, at the top of list; 25 cities had levels that exceeded California's proposed limits. The EPA currently limits total chromium in drinking water to 100 parts per billion, but there is no established specifically for chromium(VI). In the same year, the California Environmental Protection Agency had proposed a goal of 0.2 parts per billion, despite a 2001 state law requiring a standard be set by 2005. A final Public Health Goal of 0.02 ppb was established in July 2011.\n\nAs of August 2016, the EWG alongside activist Erin Brockovich is pushing for the EPA to change the nationwide MCL to be more reflective of the California standards. This response comes as result of the resignation of a top state health official in North Carolina. Governor Pat McCrory had been attempting to remove warnings against drinking water potentially contaminated by hexavalent chromium from Duke Energy coal burning facilities. The confusion on the regulating guidelines and health safety of hexavalent chromium within drinking water has led to multiple standards. The EWG's push for stricter national guidelines is done in hopes to eliminate the confusion among citizens and state officials as well as to protect the health of the population from this carcinogen.\n\nThe EWG released an analysis in September 2016 of federal data from nationwide drinking water tests which showed that seventy-five percent of samples contained hexavalent chromium at levels higher than the California public health goal of 0.02 ppb. The EWG estimates that the US will see 12,000 excess cases in cancer by the end of the century if hexavalent chromium exposure in drinking water is not reduced.\n\nMonterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District monitored airborne levels of hexavalent chromium at an elementary school and fire department, as well as the point-source. They concluded that there were high levels of hexavalent chromium in the air, originating from a local cement plant, called Cemex. The levels of hexavalent chromium were 8 to 10 times higher than the air district's acceptable level at Pacific Elementary School and the Davenport Fire Department. The County of Santa Cruz sought help of the Health Services Agency (HSA) to investigate the findings of the Air District's report. Cemex voluntarily ceased operations due to the growing concern within the community, while additional air samples were analyzed. The HSA worked with Cemex to implement engineering controls, such as dust scavenging systems and other dust mitigation procedures. Cemex also made a change in the materials they used, trying to replace current materials with materials lower in chromium. The HSA also monitored the surrounding schools to determine if there were any health risks. Most schools came back with low levels, but in the case of higher levels a contractor was hired to clean up the chromium deposits. This case highlights the previously unrecognized possibility that hexavalent chromium can be released from cement-making.\n\nAir quality officials are taking enforcement action against two metal-processing plants they believe are contributing to hexavalent chromium emissions in Paramount, California.\n\nHexavalent chromium was found in drinking water in the southern California town of Hinkley and was brought to popular attention by the involvement of Erin Brockovich and Attorney Edward Masry. The source of contamination was from the evaporating ponds of a PG&E (Pacific Gas and Electric) natural gas pipeline Compressor Station located approximately 2 miles southeast of Hinkley. Between 1952 and 1966, chromium(VI) was used to prevent corrosion in the cooling stacks. The wastewater was then dumped into the unlined evaporating ponds. As a result, the chromium(VI) leaked into the groundwater source. The 580 ppb chromium(VI) in the groundwater in Hinkley exceeded the Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) of 100 ppb for total chromium currently set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It also exceeded the California MCL of 50 ppb (as of November 2008) for all types of chromium. California first established an MCL specifically for hexavalent chromium in 2014, set at 10 ppb. Prior to that only total chromium standards applied.\n\nA more recent study found that from 1996 to 2008, 196 cancers were identified among residents of the census tract that included Hinkley — a slightly lower number than the 224 cancers that would have been expected given its demographic characteristics. In June 2013 \"Mother Jones\" published an article regarding work by the Center for Public Integrity that was critical of the study, and some others by the same researcher, John Morgan. This comes in contrast with the conclusions reached by the EPA and California’s Department of Public Health that chromium(VI) does in fact cause cancer.\n\nAt the time that a PG&E background study of chromium(VI) was conducted, average chromium(VI) levels in Hinkley were recorded as 1.19 ppb with a peak of 3.09 ppb. The PG&E Topock Compressor Station averaged 7.8ppb and peaked at 31.8ppb. The California MCL standard was still at 50 ppb at the completion of this background study. In comparison, the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) of the California EPA, proposed a health goal of 0.06 ppb of chromium(VI) in drinking water in 2009. In 2010, Erin Brockovich returned to Hinkley in the midst of claims that the plume was spreading, despite PG&E cleanup efforts. PG&E continues to provide bottled water for the residents of Hinkley as well as offer to buy their homes. All other ongoing cleanup documentation is maintained at California EPA's page.\n\nIn Chicago's first ever testing for the toxic metal contaminant, results show that the city's local drinking water contains levels of hexavalent chromium more than 11 times higher than the health standard set in California in July 2011. The results of the test showed that the water which is sent to over 7 million residents had average levels of 0.23 ppb of the toxic metal. California's Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment designated the nation's new \"public health goal\" limit as 0.02 ppb. Echoing their counterparts in other cities where the metal has been detected, Chicago officials stress that local tap water is safe and suggest that if a national limit is adopted, it likely would be less stringent than California's goal. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA) has developed a chromium(VI) strategic plan which outlines tasks in order to reduce the levels of chromium(VI) in Illinois' drinking water. One of which is to work with the U.S. EPA to provide significant technical assistance to the City of Chicago to ensure they quickly develop an effective chromium(VI) specific monitoring program that makes use of the U.S. EPA-approved methods.\n\nCambridge Plating Company, now known as Purecoat North, was an electroplating business in Belmont, Massachusetts. A report was conducted by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), to evaluate the association between environmental exposures from the Cambridge Plating Company and health effects on the surrounding community. The report indicated that residents of Belmont were exposed to chromium via air emissions, as well as groundwater and soil. However, six types of cancer were evaluated, and the incidence was actually found to be average, in most cases, across all types, if not a little bit lower than average. For example, in kidney cancer the number of observed cases was 7 versus an expected 16. While that was the case for most diseases, it was not for all. The incidence of leukemia among females was elevated in Belmont, MA during 1982–1999 (32 diagnoses observed vs. 23.2 expected). Elevations in females were due to four excess cases in each time period (11 diagnoses observed vs. 6.9 expected during 1988–1993; 13 diagnoses observed vs. 8.7 expected during 1994–1999) while elevations among males were based on one to three excess cases. ATSDR deemed Cambridge Plating as an Indeterminate Public Health Hazard in the past, but No Apparent Public Health Hazard in the present or future.\n\nIn 2009, a lawsuit was filed against Prime Tanning Corporation of St. Joseph, Missouri, over alleged hexavalent chromium contamination in Cameron, Missouri. A cluster of brain tumors had developed in the town that was above average for the population size of the town. The lawsuit alleges that the tumors were caused by waste hexavalent chromium that had been distributed to local farmers as free fertilizer. In 2010 a government study found hexavalent chromium within the soil but not at levels that were hazardous to human health. In 2012, the case ruled that $10 million would be distributed to over a dozen farmers affected in the northwest Missouri area. The Tanning Corporation still denies that their fertilizer caused any harm. Some residents claim that the tumors were a direct cause from the chromium exposure, but it is difficult to determine what other future impacts might arise from exposure in the specific Missouri counties.\n\nOn April 8, 2009, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) collected ground water samples from a domestic well on West County Road 112 in Midland, Texas (U.S.), in response to a resident complaint of yellow water. The well was found to be contaminated with chromium(VI). The Midland groundwater reached higher levels of contamination than the EPA mandated maximum contaminant level (MCL) of 100 parts per billion. The current groundwater plume of chromium lies under approximately 260 acres of land at the West County Road 112 Groundwater Site. In response, the TCEQ installed filtration systems on water-well sites that showed contamination of chromium.\n\nAs of 2016, TCEQ had sampled water from 235 wells and has installed over 45 anion-exchange filtration systems from this site determined to be centered at 2601 West County Road 112, Midland, Texas. The TCEQ continues to sample wells surrounding the area to monitor the movement of the plume. In addition, they continue to monitor the effectiveness of the anion-exchange filtration systems by sampling on a year-quarterly and the filters are maintained at no cost to the residents.\n\nAs of March 2011, the West County Road 112 Ground Water site was added to the National Priorities List (NPL) also known as the Superfund List by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). From 2011 to 2013, TCEQ installed groundwater monitors and conducted groundwater sampling. In 2013, TCEQ began sampling residential soil and confirmed that it was contaminated from use of the contaminated groundwater for garden and lawn care.\n\nAccording to the EPA, ongoing investigations have not concluded the source of the contamination and cleanup solutions are still being developed. Until such investigations are complete and remediation established, residents will continue to be at risk for health effects from exposure to the groundwater contamination.\n\nOn January 7, 2011 it was announced that Milwaukee, Wisconsin had tested its water and hexavalent chromium was found to be present. Officials stated that it was in such small quantities that it was nothing to worry about, although this contaminant is a carcinogen. In Wisconsin, Milwaukee's average chromium(VI) level is 0.194 parts per billion (the EPA recommended maximum contaminant level (MCL) is 100 ppb). All 13 water systems tested positive for chromium(VI). Four out of seven systems detected the chemical in Waukesha County, and both Racine and Kenosha Counties had the highest levels averaging more than 0.2 parts per billion. Further testing was being conducted as of 2011. There was no further information available as of October 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27709502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27709502", "title": "History of military nutrition", "text": "History of military nutrition\n\nMilitary nutrition has evolved over time. In the past, armies lived off the land, by pillaging food from the people whose land the army occupied, or requisitioning it. Often more soldiers died of disease that was exacerbated by malnutrition than from combat.\n\n\"An army marches on its stomach\", said Napoleon Bonaparte, in the oft-quoted phrase.\n\nThe standard for military rations in the United States was set in 1775 during the Revolutionary War and included one pound of beef, one quarter pound of pork, or one pound of salt fish; one pound of bread or flour; three pints of peas or beans; one pint of milk; one half-pint of rice or one pint of cornmeal; and one quart of spruce beer or cider. When these items were not available, soldiers relied on jerky and hardtack, a type of biscuit made from flour and water. During the Civil War, due to the progress made in the preservation of food, Union rations came to include coffee, tea, potatoes, and seasonings. During World War I, rations included a pound of hard bread and canned meat, a cube of condensed soup, coffee, and sugar.\n\nDuring World War I, four types of rations existed: garrison rations, reserve rations, emergency rations, and trench rations. Garrison rations were perishable foods like meat and bread. Reserve rations were non-perishables, such as canned goods. In response to the need for food for the Grand Army that invaded Russia under Napoleon, a French government reward prompted Nicolas Appert to invent \"canning\", resulting in the first preserved food for armies (military rations), that came as food stuffed into wine bottles and then boiled to preserve it. Emergency rations were compressed meats and cereal bars. Trench rations were kept in large steel cans designed to withstand chemical attacks. During the mid-1930s, the names for these rations were changed: garrison rations became A rations; reserve rations became B and C rations; emergency rations became D rations. C rations contained three cans of meat (M) units and Bread (B) units. M1 contained meat and beans, M2 contained meat and vegetable hash, and M3 contained meat and vegetable stew. B units contained bread, coffee, and sugar.\n\nK rations were developed in the 1940s. These were portable rations, sealed for safe consumption, designed to give soldiers the energy they need without the baggage of the bulkier rations. One version of the K ration, the Logan bar, was made from chocolate and oat flour and was made by Hershey Chocolate Company. Starting in the 1980s these rations evolved to include two hot meals a day. T, or tray rations were developed for dining halls and were meant to be boiled and served to twelve to eighteen people. Individual rations were also developed called MRE or Meals Ready-To-Eat. These were complete 1300 calorie meals that include things like cake, peanut butter, hot sauce, and candy. These MREs came with a water activated heating pad to prepare the meals if desired. Since the 1980s, the variety of these meals has increased to include more of a variation of meals.\n\nCurrently, the United States military several different types of food available. Some of these include: \n\nNutrition has a direct correlation to health, and health directly influences the effectiveness of military personnel. Lack of proper nutrition can decrease the effectiveness of vaccines and increase the possibility of disease, especially in high stress situations. Many nutrients have direct effects on the immune system. When the body is subjected to illnesses such as injuries or burns increased amounts of the amino acid Glutamine are required. Vitamins C and E are antioxidants and have been associated with increased immune response. Nutrition plays an important role in the body’s ability to repair itself. Throughout history there have been instances where disease caused by nutritional depletion caused more deaths than combat. During Lord Anson’s 1774 voyage around the world 636 of his 961 soldiers died while on his ships. The surgeon James Lind of the Royal Navy discovered that consuming citrus fruits prevented scurvy. Historical accounts and nutrient analysis provide evidence that poor nutrition and inadequate amounts of vitamins A, C, and E may have caused the failure of the New Zealand army during the Battle of Gallipoli. These deficiencies account for numerous cases of scurvy and illnesses and could have been easily avoided by incorporating canned fruits and vegetables into soldier’s diets. “ Inadequate nutrition can result in poor physical and cognitive performance (e.g. inability to carry out physical tasks, poor concentration and decreased vigilance) [21,22]. The long-term effects of both macro- and micro-nutrient imbalances include increased risk of vitamin and mineral deficiencies (potentially predisposing some individuals to an increased risk of stress fractures and rickets), obesity, hypertension, coronary heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis and kidney failure”.\n\nIn 1963, the Department of Defense began creating what is now known as “Meal, Ready to Eat”, commonly abbreviated as MRE. Modern food preparation combined with new packaging technology led to the ability to ration out food in a lighter and more efficient way, rather than having to carry around canned goods. Ongoing development has led to around 24 entrees and more than 150 additional food and beverage options for soldiers to choose from. Recently, MREs have been studied more extensively, and are now being developed using the Dietary Reference Intake. Created by the Institute of Medicine, it was indicated that military members typically burn around 4,200 calories a day, but tend to only consume around 2,400 calories during combat. To combat this and provide foods with better nutritional value, the military has experimented with new ration ideas, such as the First Strike Ration and the HOOAH! Bar, which are typically lighter than MRE and require less preparation, such as having to heat up foods.\n\nEach MRE meal contains approximately 1,200 calories. They are prepared to be eaten within a twenty-one day period. Packaging requirements are strict in order to maintain health codes. For example, MREs are created to withstand parachute drops from 1,250 feet high. The packaging itself is made to survive a life shelf of three and a half years at 81 degrees Fahrenheit, nine months at 100 degrees Fahrenheit, and can even stay safe through short durations of -60 degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nNot only are the MRE options ever-developing to best suit the needs of service members, the packaging itself is improving. Zein is being studied as a possibility to replace the current foil packages. Foil has a list of negativity; it can be punctured more easily, can conduct heat, and is reflective, which could give away a soldier’s position while on the battlefield.\n\nThe subject of how nutrition in the military affects service members psychologically is an ongoing research process. It is currently a small field, as few studies have been conducted. However, much research has been done on how food, or lack thereof, can affect the mental stability of an individual. This information can thus be carried over to our soldiers and intensified, to better their health. A review by the American Dietetic Association indicated that restricting the intake of food has many underlying issues. Lack of proper nutrition can increase emotional responsiveness and dysphoria, and distractibility. This can be an obvious issue for soldiers, especially those on the front line. Taking this into account and finding ways to better the dietary plans of military members will not only better their physical abilities, but help keep their minds stronger.\n\nMuslim soldiers must observe Ramadan, a four-week fasting period where the participants can only eat after sundown. This can cause problems for military personnel who are in training or in battle, depleting their body of nutrients for long periods of time while they are still required to do continuous physical and mental labor at a high level of ability. However, a Hellenic Army Academy study found that Ramadan fasting does not affect overall military fitness performance, although fasting cadets were less able to handle repeated maximal exercise, possibly due to inadequate recovery between tests.\n\nThroughout US military history, diet quality has not been the main issue; the lack of food consumption has. The Committee on Military Nutrition Research attempted to identify factors that lead to low food intake by troops in field settings, investigating whether or not—and if so, when—the energy deficit affects soldiers’ performance, and what specific factors are involved, allowing the military to implement operational strategies to mitigate the problem.\n\nA balanced diet informed by sound nutrition knowledge is key for operational readiness and the health of military personnel. Unfortunately, research suggests that military personnel have inadequate dietary intakes. A study assessed general nutrition knowledge, diet quality and their association in Australian military personnel. Two specific questions on eating patterns were also included. The first examined how often during an average week (including weekends) participants skipped breakfast, lunch and/or dinner. Response options included ‘always’, ‘often’, ‘sometimes’ or ‘never’. The second examined on average how many times per week participants ate dinner away from home – for example, from a restaurant, takeaway or frontline (military canteen). Participants were required to provide a numerical value of occasions per week. This study found that military personnel had poor quality diets even with the knowledge they would expect to have from having to take care of their bodies in other to be able to reach their fitness standards.\n\nA study done testing the poor food quality giving to New Zealand soldiers in Gallipoli in 1915. To further understand this problem, the study analysed the foods in the military rations for 1915 using food composition data on the closest equivalents for modern foods. The nutrient analysis suggested that the military rations were below modern requirements for vitamins A, C and E; potassium; selenium; and dietary fiber. If military planners had used modest amounts of the canned vegetables and fruit available in 1915, this would probably have eliminated four of these six deficits. In summary, there is now both historical and analytic evidence that the military rations provided to these soldiers were nutritionally inadequate. These deficits are likely to have caused cases of scurvy and may have contributed to the high rates of other illnesses experienced at Gallipoli. Such problems could have been readily prevented by providing rations that included some canned fruit or vegetables.\n\nCanada determined that poor nutrition of their military personnel may be affecting their long term health and combat readiness. Due to their findings, the military has designed and required a nutrition course for all new recruits. They have also updated their National Standardized Cycle menu and shelf stable rations to encourage healthier eating habits.\n\nThe rations provided to the British Forces were often inedible and did not resemble real food. The soldiers mentioning food in many of their letters home shows some psychological distress that they may have been experiencing due to the nature of their rations. They also were high in calories yet low in the essential nutrients needed to thrive. In the book the author reveals parts of soldiers diaries where they admit to stealing food from French farms and orchards. Edible food was used as a motivating source for the Soldiers when receiving care packages from loved ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "40180216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40180216", "title": "IMA World Health", "text": "IMA World Health\n\nIMA World Health is an international, nonprofit health care service organization. The faith-based charity specializes in procuring and distributing medical supplies and services to underdeveloped nations. IMA's stated purpose is to \"provide health care…without bias, to vulnerable and marginalized people in the developing world.\"\n\nRichard L. Santos serves as president and CEO for IMA World Health, headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States. IMA is a member of the Core Group for Child Survival, the Global Health Council, and the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations. In addition, IMA is registered with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\nIMA World Health, also known as Interchurch Medical Assistance, was formed in 1960 as a coalition of a number of faith-based relief and development agencies. IMA's aim was to centralize and oversee requests for gifts-in-kind from pharmaceutical and medical supply manufacturers and appropriately channel them to healthcare facilities, refugee centers, and disaster relief programs. The organization began distributing the donations from a warehouse in Maryland. The warehouse was operated by one of IMA's sponsors, the Church of the Brethren. To date, the organization has managed over $1 billion in supplies and shipped them to 52 countries.\n\nIn addition to the distribution of needed medical supplies, IMA has provided medical services to people in areas devastated by civil strife and natural disaster. In 2010, three of the agency's own employees, including Santos, narrowly escaped death while working to end Lymphatic Filariasis (Elephantiasis) in Haiti. The workers spent 50 hours trapped in the rubble of a hotel in Port-au-Prince after an earthquake struck the region, but they were ultimately rescued. The organization responded to the disaster by providing medicine boxes and hygiene kits.\n\nIn the late 1990s, IMA World Health expanded its efforts to include the management of healthcare service projects in developing nations. The organization worked to build basic health systems and services, control diseases including HIV/AIDS and NTDs (Neglected Tropical Diseases), and foster local faith-based support. IMA also recruits personnel to serve in areas of need. Its workers are involved in projects in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Southern Sudan, and Tanzania.\n\n"}
{"id": "34151341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34151341", "title": "IPS Supported Employment", "text": "IPS Supported Employment\n\nIPS Supported Employment is an evidence-based approach to supported employment for people who have a mental illness. IPS stands for Individual Placement and Support. IPS supports people in their efforts to achieve steady, meaningful employment in mainstream competitive jobs, either part-time or full-time. This stands in contrast to other vocational rehabilitation approaches that employ people in sheltered workshops and other set-aside jobs.\n\nIPS has been extensively researched and proven to be effective compared to standard employment services.\n\nIPS is based on eight principles. Mental health agencies that implement IPS aim to follow these principles in delivering vocational services.\nThe implementation of these principles can be assessed by using a fidelity scale and an accompanying manual that have been developed specifically for IPS.\n\nIPS was first studied in a randomized controlled trial in 1996. Between 1996 and 2011, IPS was evaluated in 15 randomized controlled trials. This research has established IPS as an evidence-based practice in community psychiatry. Studies in this body of research typically compare IPS to another approach to vocational rehabilitation. Study participants are randomized to receive services from one of the vocational approaches being studied. Researchers observe the proportion of participants in each group who get jobs within some fixed period of time. This follow-up period varies across studies from 6 months to 30 months, averaging 18 months. On average, 60% of research participants get a competitive job during the follow-up period when they receive IPS, whereas 24% of participants get a competitive job when receiving other vocational services. These results, along with data from non-research implementations of IPS, have resulted in the establishment of benchmark employment rates for IPS programs.\n\nIn addition to testing the comparative effectiveness of IPS, researchers have conducted implementation research on IPS, research on predictors of outcome (who gets jobs and why), barriers to employment for people who have a serious mental illness, and a number of other related areas.\n\nIPS services are typically delivered by supported employment teams that operate within community mental health agencies. These teams work with their agency's clinical staff to coordinate services. When a client at the agency expresses interest in working, that client is referred to an employment specialist on the IPS team for an initial meeting. The employment specialist works with the client to learn about his or her goals and preferences and provides information about how IPS works. When someone chooses to enroll in IPS, that person and the employment specialist make a plan together and begin to look for regular jobs in the community as soon as the client expresses interest in doing so. Employment specialists are trained to provide people with support, coaching, resume development, interview training, and on-the-job support. Employment specialists are also trained to do job development; a process in which employment specialists build relationships with employers in businesses that have jobs that are consistent with client preferences.\n\nIn IPS, the client's preferences are central. The client decides whether or not employers and potential employers know about her/his mental illness and whether or not the employment specialist will talk to employer/s on his or her behalf. The client also decides which jobs to apply for and how much he or she wants to work. The decision about how much to work is often influenced by a desire to transition to a working life while minimizing the risk of being both out of work and without disability benefits. Part of the employment specialist's job is to connect people with benefits counseling so that they can make informed decisions in this area.\n\nPeople who try IPS often get a number of jobs before finding one that is a good fit. In IPS there is an orientation towards moving between jobs as part of a normal process. This process aims at convergence towards stable employment and toward the client's personal recovery goals.\n\nAs of 2009 only 2.1% of U.S. mental health clients had access to evidence-based vocational services. Mental health agencies often face financing challenges in implementing IPS due to the absence of clear reimbursement policies for vocational services in psychiatry. Nonetheless, as of 2011, IPS was offered by mental health agencies in at least 13 states. Because there is no national directory of IPS providers, people interested in access to these services must ask local mental health services providers about their vocational services in order to find out whether or not evidence-based vocational services are available.\n\nThe Johnson & Johnson – Dartmouth Community Mental Health Program was created to further the dissemination of IPS by providing a structure for supporting implementations of IPS at the state level. In 2001, the Dartmouth Psychiatric Research Center launched this program with philanthropic support from Johnson & Johnson Corporate Contributions. This program has resulted in the formation of a national learning collaborative that supports the implementation of IPS services in everyday (i.e., non-research) settings. Membership in this collaborative is widespread. As of 2011, 13 states containing 130 participating mental health agencies were part of the collaborative. States that enter the learning collaborative receive four years of seed funding to support initial implementation efforts. After this first phase, states and their participating agencies stay involved by sharing outcome and service data, participating in research projects, and by continuing statewide implementation efforts.\n\nAlthough IPS was developed in the United States, research literature suggests a wider interest in IPS and suggests that the intervention is effective across a range of cultures and policy environments. Randomized trials of IPS have been conducted in Canada, throughout Europe, including in the UK, in Australia, The Netherlands, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.\n\nIn the UK, Centre for Mental Health has developed a Centres of Excellence project based on the Dartmouth Medical School scheme. The Centres will act as exemplars of how Individual Placement and Support (IPS) can be implemented in localities across England. http://www.centreformentalhealth.org.uk/employment/ips.aspx\n\n"}
{"id": "40587592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40587592", "title": "Independence Blue Cross Foundation", "text": "Independence Blue Cross Foundation\n\nIn October 2011, Independence Blue Cross launched a private, charitable foundation— the Independence Blue Cross (IBC) Foundation— with a mission to transform health care through innovation in the communities it serves.\n\nTheir mission is defined by the foundation's core principles: Thought leadership, Innovation, Collaboration, Engagement, and Sustainability.\n\nThe IBC Foundation funds research, grants, programs, and initiatives that advance caring for the Philadelphia region's most vulnerable, enhance health care delivery, and build healthy communities.\n\nThe IBC Foundation's Blue Safety Net program provides grants to non-profit, privately funded \"safety net\" health clinics that provide free or nominal-fee care to the uninsured and medically underserved in local communities in Philadelphia.\n\nNurses for Tomorrow is an initiative designed to address the shortage of nurses and nursing educators and support the ability for nurses to practice effectively. The program includes nursing scholarship grants to local schools in the Philadelphia region, continuing education workshops, and nursing internships at either the IBC Foundation or Independence Blue Cross.\n\nIn September 2013, the IBC Foundation launched Healthy Futures, a three-year, $2.7 million program to improve child wellness in the Philadelphia region. The Healthy Futures initiative is built on three main principles: eat right, get fit, and stay well. The IBC Foundation partners with many local organizations to teach children how to live a healthier life.\n\nKey Partners:\n"}
{"id": "3542161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3542161", "title": "Inibsa", "text": "Inibsa\n\nInibsa Laboratorios is a pharmaceutical company in Spain. It was founded in 1948 by Dr. Junyent and since 1984 its name has been Inibsa Laboratorios.\n\n"}
{"id": "30256789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30256789", "title": "International trade and water", "text": "International trade and water\n\nInternational trade and water is the relationship between international trade and the water being used by humans. The substantial increase in human population during the 20th century combined with rapid increases in overall global economic development has resulted in rising challenges for the future of public water management. The developing world has been particularly impacted by the lack of access to clean water. Each year, millions of people die due to illnesses, diseases, and lack the capital to create the infrastructure necessary to combat the problem. These conditions have increased the global demand for clean water and in turn, have pressured free market economists to suggest that wealthy market players are the most efficient solution to addressing water issues. Several nations can benefit from international trade in water. Particularly nations with excess fresh water and abundant capital are looking forward to making healthy profits from either the export of water to other nations, or are interested in the investment returns they will earn from participation in foreign markets. However, not everyone agrees that market forces are best capable of solving water issues. NGO’s, human rights organizations, and various stakeholders oppose viewing water in economic terms. These individuals accuse international trade agreements and international economic institutions including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) of attempting to privatize a resource that they consider a basic human right. The lack of a common understanding of whether or not water should be viewed as a commodity or a basic human right has resulted in heated debates among legal professionals and leading members of the academia.\n\nPrior to the industrial period, water had been extracted by whichever local community lived around it. As the industrial period progressed however, this view began to be replaced by a more economic oriented approach. Today, most water goes through a complicated industrial process that begins with its extraction and ends in a complicated process involving pipes, dams, and other sorts of unnatural facilities. Even fresh water that is located in rivers and lakes must somehow be extracted. In general these considerations involve the use of land, labor and capital thereby replacing the notion of a common resource into a value based product. Desalinization and desalinization plants play a major role also.\n\nIn 2000, out of the 40 IMF loans distributed 12 had requirements of partial or full privatization of water supplies.iv Likewise 50 percent of World Bank loans issued in 2002 to developing countries contained a clause that requested privatization of water services. In addition to international institutions pushing for privatization, trade agreements in the 20th century have also created the legal framework for allowing the sale of water. The GATS, known as the General Agreement on Trade in Services, operates on a list in approach, meaning it allows privatization in areas that the nation has agreed to open to other members. The Doha Development Round of negotiations aims at changing this stature. During these negotiations it was declared that no sector is to be excluded from the negotiations to the new agreement. If water services negotiations succeed then once a member chooses to open their markets to their own private sector, then will have to afford other members the same rights to invest in that sector. Many regional trade agreements do not have a list in approach and are therefore subject to the same conditions mentioned above. For example, in the US-CAFTA agreement only Costa Rica directly specified that water services were to be excluded from foreign investment the other nations made no similar request. Due to the mixed results obtained from privatization of water services and the difficulty of reversing that decision, several actors have strongly opposed the export of bulk fresh water. These actors claim that once such an action is allowed to occur then it will establish a precedent of treating water just like any other export. This in turn will become legally binding and irreversible.\n\nCanada is one of the largest owners of fresh water and has for years been engaged in a legal dispute over its possession of the resource. In 1990 an American company named Sunbelt was invited by the government of British Columbia to invest in a water exporting operation. Due to setbacks, the contract never matured and Sunbelt sued the government of British Columbia for failing to meet its obligations. After years of battle the Canadian government declared in 1999 that water in its fresh state as those found in rivers and lakes contains no economic value, and is therefore outside the obligations of its trade agreement. In addition, the government cited article XI of GATT (G). This article allows for the conservation of a natural resource as long as the action taken by the government is done in a non-discriminatory manner. Sunbelt however, disagreed with the applicability of this clause and claimed that Canada’s actions are in direct violation of several international trade agreements. Particularly, Sunbelt addressed Article XI of GATT which forbids a member nation from imposing measures other than taxes, levies and other charges on the export of its good. Likewise, Sunbelt argued that the water located in British Columbia belonged to US companies just as much as it belongs to Canadian companies. This argument is based on Article 11 of NAFTA known as the investment chapter. Once water is extracted from its natural state for whatever reason that same right must be given to foreign investors. Sunbelt argues that Canadian companies had such extractions in the past and therefore opened the door for foreign investors to come in and do likewise.\n\nIn 2002, Israel agreed to buy 1.75 billion cubic feet of water from Turkey every year for a period of 20 years. The method of transport involved the use of large plastic bubbles that would bring the water to the storage facility. In regards to the talks, the foreign minister of Turkey declared that this agreement will increase the cooperation between the two countries and also lead to peace and stability in the Middle East. Economically Israel concluded that the cost of importing water would be higher than choosing the desalinization option but chose to import anyway. In addition to hoping to achieve peace the foreign minister also mentioned that the landmark agreement turns water into an internationally accepted \"commodity,\" and that Turkey hopes to sell water to other countries. Turkey canceled the deal after the Gaza Flotilla Raid by IDF commandos Gaza Flotilla Raid on May 31 2010. During this incident several Turkish nationals were killed by Israeli armed forces.\n\nIn July 2010, the UN General Assembly declared that access to clean water and sanitation is a human right. The assembly did not specify whether a public authority or the private sector would be best capable of providing this right.\n\n\ni (Segerfeldt 2005) \n\nii (Saefong 2006) \n\niii (Overbeke 2004) \n\niv (Shiva 2002) \n\nv (Public Citizen.org 2002) \n\nvi (Mann 2006) \n\nvii (Mann 2006) \n\nviii (Dr. Isabel Al-Assar 2008) \n\nix (US Water News Online 2004) \n\nx (US Water News Online 2004)\n"}
{"id": "53517581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53517581", "title": "JP Sears", "text": "JP Sears\n\nJP Sears is an American life coach and internet comedian. He is known for his satirical parodying of veganism, gluten-free fads, new age beliefs, and other \"modern hippy\" topics with his video series \"Ultra Spiritual\". He is the author of the satirical book \"How to Be Ultra Spiritual: 12-1/2 Steps to Spiritual Superiority\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21548279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21548279", "title": "James Lind Alliance", "text": "James Lind Alliance\n\nThe James Lind Alliance is a British non-profit making initiative, established in 2004. It was established to bring patients, carers and clinicians together, in Priority Setting Partnerships, to identify and prioritise the unanswered questions about treatments that they agree are most important. The intention is to ensure that those who fund health research are aware of what matters to patients, carers and clinicians.\n\nFrom 1 April 2013, the secretariat of the James Lind Alliance has been hosted by the National Institute for Health Research Evaluation, Trials and Studies Coordinating Centre (NETSCC). Its work includes recruiting and training JLA Advisers, coordinating Priority Setting Partnerships, communications and liaising with other parts of the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR). In 2016 the James Lind Alliance was granted with the Societal Award of the Foundation Federation of Dutch Medical Scientific Societies (Federa) for their initiative to bring patients into partnerships for research priorities \n\nResearch on the effects of treatments often overlooks the shared interests of patients and clinicians. As a result, questions they both consider important are not addressed. The pharmaceutical and medical technology industries and academia play essential roles in developing new treatments, but their priorities are not necessarily the same as those of patients and clinicians. For this reason many areas of potentially valuable research are neglected. Bringing patients and clinicians together to prioritise questions in treatment uncertainty is thought to be rare.\n\nThe James Lind Alliance brings together patients and patient representatives, carers and clinicians, as individuals or represented by groups, to form Priority Setting Partnerships, focusing on specific health conditions. For example, the Asthma Priority Setting Partnership was led by Asthma UK and the British Thoracic Society, while the Urinary Incontinence Priority Setting Partnership was led by the Bladder & Bowel Foundation and the Cochrane Incontinence Group , part of the Cochrane Collaboration.\n\nPriority Setting Partnerships work together to gather uncertainties about the effects of treatments. The uncertainties are all checked to ensure they cannot be answered by existing knowledge, research or sources of information.\n\nThe uncertainties then go through a process of prioritisation, which aims to culminate in a top ten list of priorities for research, shared by patients, carers and clinicians. To date, the process has been completed for over 40 health areas including Asthma, Urinary Incontinence, Anaesthetics and Perioperative Care, Vitiligo, Intensive Care, Prostate Cancer, Cystic Fibrosis and Surgery for Common Shoulder Problems.\n\nThe Alliance is named after a pioneer of clinical trials, James Lind (1716–1794). Two hundred and fifty years ago, there were many conflicting ideas and unanswered questions about how to treat the deadly disease scurvy. Lind, a Scottish naval surgeon, decided to confront this uncertainty by treating his patients within a clinical trial comparing six of the proposed remedies. His trial showed that oranges and lemons were dramatically better than the other supposed treatments.\n\n"}
{"id": "39529894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39529894", "title": "Jean Pitard", "text": "Jean Pitard\n\nJean Pitard (born ~1228 near Bayeux, France, died in Paris at age 87, in ~1315) was the royal surgeon to Louis IX, Philip the Bold and Philip the Fair of France. At his request, about the year 1270, Louis IX created the Fraternity of St. Cosmas and St. Damian, which defined and organized the profession of surgeons in France.\n\nPitard received his training as an apprentice and did not receive any university training, as a result he was not encumbered by many of the medical and anatomical theories of his contemporaries.\n"}
{"id": "18938490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18938490", "title": "Kama Reservoir", "text": "Kama Reservoir\n\nThe Kama Reservoir, also known as the Perm Reservoir (), is a reservoir formed by the dam of the Kama Hydroelectric Station near Perm (constructed in 1954-1956). The Kama Reservoir has a surface area of 1,915 km² and a water volume of 12,2 cubic km. Its length along the Kama is 272 km, major width - up to 30 km, average depth - 6,3 m (with maximum depth equaling 30 m). The Kama Reservoir was created for the benefit of transportation, energetics, and water supply. It also performs seasonal flow regulation. The cities of Perm, Dobryanka, Chyormoz, Berezniki, Usolye, and Solikamsk are located on the shores of the Kama Reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "58736403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58736403", "title": "Karen Bryan", "text": "Karen Bryan\n\nKaren Bryan is a speech therapist, and a Professor and Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the University of Greenwich.\n\nBryan qualified as a speech and language therapist from the University of Newcastle and also gained her PhD there. Her research interests are in workforce development and the effectiveness of interventions for communication disorders associated with stroke, dementia and other neurological conditions. \n\nBryan was Head of the School of Health and Social Care at the University of Surrey before moving, in 2013, to the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor for its Faculty of Health and Wellbeing at Sheffield Hallam University. She is currently the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the University of Greenwich and Chair of the University Schools Trust.\nShe is also a visiting professor in the Department of Neuropsychology at the University of Warsaw.\n\nBryan was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 2011, and awarded an OBE in the 2018 New Year Honours for services to Higher Education.\n"}
{"id": "7096777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7096777", "title": "Kovvatnet (Finnmark)", "text": "Kovvatnet (Finnmark)\n\n"}
{"id": "4810595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4810595", "title": "Liability insurance crisis", "text": "Liability insurance crisis\n\nThe liability insurance crisis in the United States of America refers to a volatile economic period during the mid-1980s. During these years, until about 1990, rising insurance premiums and an unavailability of coverage for several types of liability insurance led to a crisis that has been attributed, among others, to the expansion of tort doctrines for insurer liability and the McCarran-Ferguson exemption from antitrust laws.\n\nDuring the period from 1984 to 1987, premiums for general liability increased from about $6.5 billion to approximately $19.5 billion. In addition to increases in premium, many insurers took the following measures to limit the number and cost of claims: 1) changed policy coverage from an occurrence to a claims-made basis; 2) expanded exclusions; 3) raised deductibles; and 4) lowered policy limits on a per-claim basis, and 5) introduced the notion of aggregate total exposure.\n\nThe resulting crisis adversely affected a diverse range of organizations, including municipalities, social service providers and pharmaceutical, aircraft, sports equipment, and medical device companies. Many organizations in the nonprofit and government sector could no longer offer social, medical or recreational services due to the prohibitive cost or unavailability of liability coverage.\n\nReaction to the crisis was widespread in the public media. Public policy advocates expressed concern about the impact on human services. In California, for example, testimony was given before the California Assembly regarding the significant loss of human service programs such as foster care, group homes, and health services caused by soaring premiums and widespread policy cancellation.\n\nVarious theories among academics, government, insurers, consumers, and regulators have been put forth regarding the causes of the crisis. \n\nAs a result of widespread economic disruption, a large number of states adopted tort reforms to limit the dramatic surge in insurance losses and premiums. Congress enacted legislation that expanded the ability of companies prone to similar risks to join together and either form their own insurance risk pool or purchase insurance collectively. Some states, such as Vermont and Hawaii, enacted laws to encourage the development of alternative methods to manage risk, such as captive insurance or risk retention groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "23784557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23784557", "title": "Lifeline Express China", "text": "Lifeline Express China\n\nLifeline Express is an charitable organization that attempts to reduce blindness in China. Since 1997, the orgainzation has operated rainbow-coloured hospital \"Eye-Trains\" that provide free cataract operations to patients in China. In addition, Lifeline Express promotes ophthalmological training for Chinese doctors, through constructing training centers and inviting foreign doctors to China as consultants, and builds solar hot water systems in remote parts of China.\n\nThe development of Lifeline Express is supported by the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Railways and Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office. It is funded by Lifeline Express Hong Kong Foundation,Lifeline Express China Foundation and the general public.\n\nLifeline Express restores sights to the cataract patients in rural China. The Ministry of Health estimated that 1 million cataract patients are remain uncured, with an increase of 0.5 million new cases every year. People suffering from cataract grew younger in remote areas due to unsatisfactory hygiene condition and demanding physical laboring; more and more are diagnosed as genetically inherited. Lifeline Express brings back lights to the patients, allowing the people to pick up their work in the fields again and help the poverty-stricken areas to retrieve work force, thus improve their livelihood. While working on the eye-train, eye-doctors are trained to facilitate the future development.\n\nThis organisation has replicated the Lifeline Express created in India by the Impact India Foundation. In 1996, Impact India came to Hong Kong to raise funds for this work. Some of the individuals they approached for support quickly saw the potential for mounting a similar operation on China’s mainland. A group of Hong Kong philanthropists visited India to see the Lifeline Express in action, discussed the idea with China’s Ministry of Public Health. Celebrating Hong Kong’s transfer of sovereignty to China, Nellie Fong Wong Kut-Man, the Founding Chairman of Lifeline Express Hong Kong Foundation, together with twenty other Founding Trustees raised the capital for the first eye-train. On 1 July 1997, the first eye-train started its first journey of vision.\n\nIn 2002, the Chinese Foundation for Lifeline Express was established and widened the network of sponsorship.\n\nOver the past decade, the eye-train s of Lifeline Express visited over 27 provinces, cities and autonomous regions and cured more than 100,000 cataract patients in the remote and poverty-stricken areas of China. Lifeline Express' hospital trains together visit twelve locations and perform over 11,000 surgeries every year. Train stays at each location for 3 months, performing 25 free eye operations every day for a total of about 1000 patients having their eyesight restored at each stop.\nThe first eye-train was launched in 1997, the second in 1999, the third in 2002 and the fourth in 2009.\n\nThere were 12 team members, including doctors, nurses, engineering technician and administrative staff recruited from the mainland hospitals, staying on each eye-train running the daily operations. Voluntary ophthalmologists from Hong Kong and overseas spend their vacations on the train to perform surgeries.\n\nThere are 4 compartments on the eye-train. Each train consists of medical equipment and eye-care technology. Other facilities are also available on the train:\n\nLifeline Express has set up 12 Microscopic Eye Surgery Centres to train eye-doctors in China. The Centres are equipped with the latest surgical equipment and eye-care technology. Its ultimate goal is to set up Centres in every province the eye-train visited, namely the less developed provinces. Doctors can received training and sit for the global exam host by the International Council of Ophthalmology.\n\nIn the past, many living in the remote area of China could only bath in ponds during summers, and often not to bath in the cold water during fierce winters. Hygiene condition deteriorated and diseases raged.\nIn 2006, Lifeline Express started a new project in China, building solar hot water system for the rural schools to supply hot water for the village students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11278728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11278728", "title": "List of political parties in North America by country", "text": "List of political parties in North America by country\n\nAlphabetical Country List – Parties in North America with representation in their domestic federal parliament. Also noted are any affiliations with political internationals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2841957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841957", "title": "Myositis ossificans", "text": "Myositis ossificans\n\nMyositis ossificans comprises two syndromes characterized by heterotopic ossification (calcification) of muscle.\n\n\nMost (i.e. 80%) ossifications arise in the thigh or arm, and are caused by a premature return to activity after an injury. Other sites include intercostal spaces, erector spinae, pectoralis muscles, glutei, and the chest. On planar x-ray, hazy densities are sometimes noted approximately one month after injury, while the denser opacities eventually seen may not be apparent until two months have passed.\n\nThe exact mechanism of myositis ossificans is not clear. Inappropriate response of stem cells in the bone against the injury or inflammation causes inappropriate differentiation of fibroblasts into osteogenic cells. When a skeletal muscle is injured, inflammatory cytokines (Bone morphogenetic protein 2, Bone morphogenetic protein 4, and Transforming growth factor) are released. These cytokines stimulate the endothelial cells of the blood vessels to transform into mesenchymal stem cells. These mesenchymal stem cells then differentiate into chondrocytes, and osteoblasts, resulting in bone formation in soft tissues.\n\nThe process of myositis ossificans can be divided into three stages: early, intermediate, and mature. The early phase occurs in the first four weeks of injury with inflammatory phase of bone formation. This is followed by intermediate phase of bone formation (four to eight weeks following injury) where cacification started to occur and is visible on X-rays. During the maturation phase, mature bone started to form. As the maturation continues, the bone will consolidate in the coming months and subsequently bone regression occurs.\n\nCalcification is typically depicted 2 weeks earlier by ultrasound (US) when compared to radiographs. The lesion develops in two distinct stages with different presentations at US. In the early stage, termed immature, it depicts a non-specific soft tissue mass that ranges from a hypoechoic area with an outer sheet-like hyperechoic peripheral rim to a highly echogenic area with variable shadowing. In the late stage, termed mature, myositis ossificans is depicted as an elongated calcific deposit that is aligned with the long-axis of the muscle, exhibits acoustic shadowing, and has no soft tissue mass associated. US may suggest the diagnosis at early stage, but imaging features need to evolve with successive maturation of the lesion and formation of the characteristic late stage changes before they become pathognomonic.\n\nThe differential diagnosis includes many tumoral and nontumoral pathologies. A main concern is to differentiate early myositis ossificans from malignant soft-tissue tumors, and the latter is suggested by a fast-growing process. If clinical or sonographic findings are dubious and extraosseous sarcoma is suspected, biopsy should be performed. At histology, detection of the typical zonal phenomenon is diagnostic of myositis ossificans, though microscopic findings may be misleading during the early stage.\n\nThe radiological features of myositis ossificans are ‘faint soft tissue calcification within 2–6 weeks, (may have well-defined\nbony margins by 8 weeks) separated from periosteum by lucent zone and on CT, the characteristic feature is peripheral ossification’.\n\nSince myositis ossificians is more common in those with bleeding disorders, the formation of bone in soft tissue is thought to be associated with haematoma formation. As the calcifications will typically resolve after a period of time, non-surgical treatment is encouraged to minimize the unpleasant symptoms and maximize the function of the affected limb.\n\nFollowing a skeletal muscle injury, the affected limb should be immobilized with bed rest, ice therapy, compression, and elevation of the affected limb. Crutches can be used for ambulation while providing adequate rest for the affected limb and minimizing the haematoma formation. Ice therapy for 15 to 20 minutes every 30 to 60 minutes is useful to reduce the skeletal muscle blood flow by 50%. Aggressive limb physiotherapy is not recommended at this stage to prevent the worsening of symptoms. After 48 to 72 hours, range of motion exercise can be introduced as long as the range of motion is not painful. If the lesion becomes more mature, active range of motion and resistance strengthening exercises are useful in maintaining joint function.\n\nSurgical excision is reserved for those who failed the non-surgical treatment, those with intolerable pain, compression of the neurovascular structures, or limitation of the range of motion of the joint which affects the activities of daily living. Surgery is only performed after 6 to 18 months following injury because surgery does not alter the bone maturation process. If a surgery is performed too early, it may predispose to recurrence. However, the optimum timing for surgery and the rate of recurrence following early surgery is controversial because some studies have shown that early surgery does reduce the rate of recurrence.\n\nFor those who had total hip replacement or total hip arthroplasty, postoperative single low-dose radiation with 3 weeks of oral indomethacin regimen will be preventive for heterotopic ossification. Radiation therapy is also effective in preventing recurrence in those who had done operative excision of heterotopic ossification of the elbow.\n\n"}
{"id": "24125691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24125691", "title": "Obesity in Greece", "text": "Obesity in Greece\n\nObesity in Greece is a growing health concern with health officials stating that it is one of the leading causes of preventable deaths in Greece. \n\nAccording to Forbes, Greece ranks 16 on a 2007 list of fattiest countries with a percentage of 65.5% of its citizens with an unhealthy weight. This may be a surprise to most individuals because in the past Mediterranean countries like Greece were known to live a pretty healthy lifestyle. The Mediterranean diet was developed based on the food patterns in these different countries, Greece being a main one. In the past the people of Greece consumed a diet consisting mainly of fish, fruit, vegetable, and wine, limiting meats. These countries also were fairly active which helps to keep them healthy.\n\nToday’s European countries are moving away from this Mediterranean lifestyle and towards a more Western way of life. Indulging on the fast foods and limited daily activity are to blame on for this increase in obesity in Greece . An article from the Associated Press states that obesity rates in some European countries are higher than that of the United States. \n\nGreece’s growing health concerns related to obesity are becoming an issue that was not evident in the past because of an increase in consumption of high fat, high calorie, fast foods and decreased levels of activity. Obesity brings on health concerns such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Greece is adopting a western style of eating and straying away from the active lifestyles they once possessed. \n\n<ins>http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/7197750/ns/health-fitness/t/more-european-men-getting-supersized/#.TrmdHa7Ad7M</ins>\n<ins>http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/mediterranean-diet/CL00011</ins>\n<ins>http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/7197750/ns/health-fitness/t/more-european-men-getting-supersized/#.Tr2Noq7Ad7N </ins>\n\n"}
{"id": "27818037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27818037", "title": "Osteopaths Act 1993", "text": "Osteopaths Act 1993\n\nThe Osteopaths Act 1993 (c. 21) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom to regulate the practice of osteopathy. It received Royal Assent on 1 July 1993.\n\nThe Act created the General Osteopathic Council.\n"}
{"id": "1723198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723198", "title": "Proarrhythmia", "text": "Proarrhythmia\n\nProarrhythmia is a new or more frequent occurrence of pre-existing arrhythmias, paradoxically precipitated by antiarrhythmic therapy, which means it is a side effect associated with the administration of some existing antiarrhythmic drugs, as well as drugs for other indications. In other words, it is a tendency of antiarrhythmic drugs to facilitate emergence of new arrhythmias.\n\nAccording to the Vaughan Williams classification (VW) of antiarrhythmic drugs, there are 3 main types of Proarrhythmia during treatment with various antiarrhythmic drugs for Atrial Fibrillation or Atrial flutter:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48747896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48747896", "title": "Retinal birefringence scanning", "text": "Retinal birefringence scanning\n\nRetinal birefringence scanning (RBS) is a method for detection the central fixation of the eye. The method can be used in pediatric ophthalmology for screening purposes. By simultaneously measuring the central fixation of both eyes, small- and large-angle strabismus can be detected. The method is non-invasive and requires little cooperation by the patient, so that it can be used for detecting strabismus in young children. The method provides a reliable detection of strabismus and has also been used for detecting certain kinds of amblyopia.\n\nRetinal birefringence scanning uses the human eye's birefringent properties to identify the position of the fovea and the direction of gaze, and thereby to measure any binocular misalignment.\n\nBirefringent material has a refractive index that depends on the polarization state and propagation direction of light. The main contribution to the birefringence of the eye stems from the Henle fibers. These fibers (named after Friedrich Gustav Jakob Henle) are photoreceptor axons that are arranged in a radially symmetric pattern, extending outward from the fovea, which is the most sensitive part of the retina. When polarized light strikes the fovea, the layer of Henle fibers produces a characteristic pattern, and the strength and contrast of this pattern as well as the orientation of its bright parts depend on the polarization of the light that reaches the retina. An analysis of this pattern allows the position of the fovea and the direction of gaze to be determined.\n\nBinocular retinal birefringence has been used for diagnosing strabismus (including micro-strabismus) in young children, and has also been proposed for diagnosing amblyopia by detecting strabismus and by detecting a reduced fixation accuracy.\n\nHowever, also birefringent properties of the cornea and the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) are sources of birefringence. Corneal birefringence varies widely from one individual to another, as well as from one location to another for the same individual, and can thus confound measurements.\n"}
{"id": "56539223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56539223", "title": "Root fracture", "text": "Root fracture\n\nRoot fracture of the tooth is a dentine cementum fracture involving the pulp. \n\nObjectives of the treatment is to reposition the coronal fragments to allow revascularisation of the tooth, therefore maintaining aesthetics and functional integrity. \n"}
{"id": "26183319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26183319", "title": "Royal Tobacco Factory", "text": "Royal Tobacco Factory\n\nThe Royal Tobacco Factory () is an 18th-century stone building in Seville, southern Spain. Since the 1950s it has been the seat of the rectorate of the University of Seville. Prior to that, it was, as its name indicates, a tobacco factory: the most prominent such institution in Europe, and a lineal descendant of Europe's first tobacco factory, which was located nearby. It is one of the most notable and splendid examples of industrial architecture from the era of Spain's Antiguo Régimen.\n\nThe Spanish encountered the tobacco plant almost immediately upon their first arrival in the Americas in 1492. The city of Seville, home to the Casa de Contratación (The House of Trade), held a monopoly on commerce with the Americas. At the beginning of the 16th century the first tobacco manufacturers established themselves in Seville, the first anywhere in Europe. Initially, they were dispersed through the city, but were eventually concentrated in one place—facing the Church of Saint Peter—for sanitary reasons and to facilitate state control of the activity. In the 18th century, the royal government decided to build the present large building immediately outside the city walls.\n\nThis 18th-century industrial building was, at the time it was built the second largest building in Spain, second only to the royal residence El Escorial. It remains one of the largest and most architecturally distinguished industrial buildings ever built in that country, and one of the oldest such buildings to survive.\n\nThe factory was built just outside the Puerta de Jerez (a gate in the city walls), in the land known as \"de las calaveras\" (\"of the skulls\") because it had been the site of an Ancient Roman burial ground. Construction began in 1728, and proceeded by fits and starts over the next 30 years. The architects of the building were military engineers from Spain and the Low Countries, most notably:\n\nThe factory began production in 1758; the first tobacco auctions there (which were the first in Spain) took place in 1763. At that point the factory was employing a thousand men, two hundred horses, and 170 \"mills\" (: the devices used to turn the tobacco into snuff, known in Spanish as \"polvo\" or \"rapé\"); tobacco came both from Virginia and from the Spanish colonies in the Americas. According to the inscription on two of the pillars of the drawbridge on the west side, the building was finished in 1770.\n\nThe production of snuff was heavy work: enormous sheaves of tobacco were hauled around manually, and horses turned the grinding mills. For centuries, Seville remained Spain's only manufacturer of snuff. The rising popularity of cigars resulted in part of the factory being adapted for that purpose; cigars were also made in several other Spanish cities: Cádiz, Alicante, La Coruña, and Madrid. Long after the manufacture of cigars elsewhere in Spain (and in Cuba) had become women's work, the workforce in Seville remained entirely male. By the beginning of the 19th century, 700 men were employed in the factory to make cigars, and another thousand to make snuff.\n\nOver time, however, Seville's cigars developed a poor reputation. There were frequent problems with labor discipline, and quality was lower than in the factories where women made cigars; furthermore, men received better wages than women, so these inferior cigars were more expensive than those produced elsewhere. The factory became less profitable. Matters were brought to a head during the Peninsular War. The cigar-making portion of the factory closed in 1811. When it reopened in 1813, it was with a female workforce, then (from 1816) a larger, mixed workforce, and finally (after 1829) an entirely female workforce again, some 6,000 of them at the peak in the 1880s before numbers began to decrease because of mechanization.\n\nLabor unrest was less common among the women than it had been among the men, though by no means was it unknown. There were revolts or strikes in 1838, 1842, and 1885, but none of them were sustained for more than a few days. With mechanization, the labor force reduced to 3,332 in 1906, about 2,000 in 1920, and by the 1940s only about 1,100. The title character of Bizet's opera \"Carmen\" is a \"cigarrera\" at the Royal Tobacco Factory.\n\nIn his autobiography, published in 1915, Hiram Maxim wrote of a visit he made to the factory:\n\nIn 1950 it was decided to move the tobacco operations to the Los Remedios neighborhood and to use the historic building as the headquarters of the University of Seville. The transformation of the building was a major undertaking, performed between 1954 and 1956 according to the plans of architects Alberto Balbontín de Orta, Delgado Roig, and Toro Buiza.\n\nAlthough the interior has been much altered, especially during the adaptation in the 1950s for use by the University of Seville, the Royal Tobacco Factory is a remarkable example of 18th-century industrial architecture. It is one of the largest and best industrial buildings in Spain, and one of the oldest buildings of its type in Europe. The building covers a roughly rectangular area of 185 by 147 metres (610 by 480 feet), with slight protrusions at the corners. The only building in Spain that covers a larger surface area is the monastery-palace of El Escorial, which is 207 by 162 metres (680 by 530 feet).\n\nRenaissance architecture provides the main points of reference, with Herrerian influences in its floor plan, courtyards, and the details of the façades. There are also motifs reminiscent of architects Sebastiano Serlio and Palladio. The stone façades are modulated by pilasters on pedestals.\n\nPlans originally called for building the walls pilasters, arches and other elements out of the yellow-brown limestone from Martelilla (near Jerez de la Frontera), but it proved too fragile and too often defective. In the end, the stone used for the building came from Morón de la Frontera.\n\nThere are paintings inside the Tobacco Factory recalling the women cigar makers who worked there. Outstanding among these is the painting by Gonzalo Bilbao, whose most well known depictions of customs and manners are in the Seville Museum of Fine Arts, including other portrayals of women cigar makers. A ditch was dug around the factory with several sentry boxes, indicating a defensive use. Today it is the headquarters of Seville University.\nThe replacement factory built in the 1950s remained part of Spain's national tobacco monopoly Tabacalera until that was merged into Altadis in 1999. In 2004, Altadis announced plans to shutter the plant in 2007, bringing to an end Seville's long tradition of making tobacco products. The factory's last day of operation was 31 December 2007. In June 2009, plans were announced to turn over that facility, as well, to the University of Seville.\n\n"}
{"id": "51083859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51083859", "title": "SOS Médecins", "text": "SOS Médecins\n\nSOS Médecins is the official medical emergency service of France which sends doctors directly to a residence instead of sending an ambulance (house call). This works seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, and participates with close liaison with the public emergency services (ambulance, fire brigade, hospital), and continuity of care in many urban centers and its periphery.\n\nIts operational concept has been copied in other countries, such as in Belgium.\n\nDoctors of London, New York and Rome came to copy the mode of operation of the association. In Dakar (Senegal), Athens (Greece), Brussels (Belgium), Geneva (Switzerland), Beirut (SOS Doctors Of Lebanon), SOS Médecins participated in the inauguration of home care private medical services teams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24243883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24243883", "title": "Seifollah Vahid Dastjerdi", "text": "Seifollah Vahid Dastjerdi\n\nSeifollah Vahid Dastjerdi (1926–1999) was head of the Red Crescent Society of the Islamic Republic of Iran.\n\nDuring political turmoil in Tehran following the 1987 Iranian pilgrim riots in Saudi Arabia, Seifollah Vahid Dastjerdi appeared on television speaking for Iran Red Crescent. In an interview seen on NBC Evening News for August 18, 1987, he claimed women victims of the violence had been deliberately killed.\n\nIn 1997, he was closely involved with Red Crescent's relief activities following the Ardabil earthquake.\n\nHe was the father of Marzieh Vahid-Dastjerdi.\n"}
{"id": "17657316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17657316", "title": "StatPlus", "text": "StatPlus\n\nStatPlus is a software product for basic univariate and multivariate statistical analysis (MANOVA, GLM, Latin squares), as well as time series analysis, nonparametric statistics, survival analysis and statistical charts including control charts.\nIt was originally developed for use in the biomedical sciences. The original version is now known as BioStat. It is mostly used in biomedicine and natural sciences.\n\nThe software has a version for the Mac OS X known as StatPlus:mac.\nThe software may also be used as an add-on to the Microsoft Excel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50431823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50431823", "title": "Tardive", "text": "Tardive\n\nTardive refers to something that is late in appearing. For example, the characteristic symptom of a disease, such as a lesion, may occur a long period after exposure. A tardive symptom could be contrasted with an acute symptom, which appears soon after injury or exposure to disease, although it may also mean a symptom that is gone quickly. On the other hand, chronic conditions are not late-appearing, they are long-lasting.\n\nIn the medical field, tardive is most commonly associated with tardive neurological disorders, such as tardive dyskinesia, tardive dystonia, tardive psychosis and tardive akathisia. These disorders arise from the long-term usage of anti-psychotic medication. In addition, there is Eisenmenger's syndrome, also called tardive cyanosis. However, it is unrelated to the other disorders.\n"}
{"id": "4762561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4762561", "title": "Warrendale", "text": "Warrendale\n\nWarrendale is a 1967 documentary film by Canadian filmmaker Allan King. It was originally produced for broadcast on CBC Television, but was never shown due to King's refusal to edit out the copious profanity in the footage.\n\nThe film is a cinéma vérité look at the lives of emotionally disturbed children housed in a facility named Warrendale, in Rexdale, at the time, a Toronto suburb. The facility was considered innovative, and met with approval when it first opened in December 1965. But almost a year after it opened, it became the centre of several controversies in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, and was eventually closed. Founder John Brown was a New Democratic Party member of the Legislature from 1967 to 1971.\n\"Warrendale\" won awards at the Cannes Film Festival, and French director Jean Renoir declared King a great artist.\n\nIn 2002, \"Warrendale\" was honoured as a \"MasterWork\" by the Audio-Visual Preservation Trust of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "25221366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25221366", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Morocco", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Morocco\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Morocco is provided by a wide array of utilities. They range from private companies in the largest city, Casablanca, the capital, Rabat, and two other cities, to public municipal utilities in 13 other cities, as well as a national electricity and water company (ONEE). The latter is in charge of bulk water supply to the aforementioned utilities, water distribution in about 500 small towns, as well as sewerage and wastewater treatment in 60 of these towns.\n\nThere have been substantial improvements in access to water supply, and to a lesser extent to sanitation, over the past fifteen years. Remaining challenges include a low level of wastewater treatment (only 13% of collected wastewater is being treated), lack of house connections in the poorest urban neighborhoods, and limited sustainability of rural systems (20 percent of rural systems are estimated not to function). In 2005 a National Sanitation Program was approved that aims at treating 60% of collected wastewater and connecting 80% of urban households to sewers by 2020. The issue of lack of water connections for some of the urban poor is being addressed as part of the National Human Development Initiative, under which residents of informal settlements have received land titles and have fees waived that are normally paid to utilities in order to connect to the water and sewer network.\n\nMorocco has about 22 billion cubic meter of conventional renewable water resources per year equivalent to 730 cubic meter/capita/year. Before taking into account drought years of the 1990s and 2000s total renewable water resources were estimated to be much higher at around 29 billion cubic meters However, only up to 20 billion cubic meter per year can be economically captured (\"ressources mobilisables\"), including 16 billion m3 of surface water and 4 billion m3 of groundwater. Morocco has about 100 dams of various sizes with a total storage capacity of 15 billion cubic meter. It was estimated that in 2004 about 13.5 billion m3 were withdrawn, or about 67% of available resources. 83% of withdrawals were for agriculture and 17% for municipal and industrial uses. However, water resources are not divided equally in space and time, with most of the water resources available in the North and rainfall limited to the winter. In addition, the quality of water resources is degraded through pollution, in particular in the Sebou basin.\nMorocco is divided in seven major river basins and a number of smaller basins. The seven major basins from North to South are the Loukkos River, the Moulouya River, the Sebou River, the Bou Regreg River, the Oum Er-Rbia River, the Tensift River and the Souss-Massa basin. Except for the Loukkos River, all these rivers originate in the Atlas Mountains.There are few inter-basin transfers in Morocco, the most important ones being the Rocade canal from the Oum Er-Rbia basin to the Tensift basin near Marrakesh, a transfer from near the mouth of the Oum er-Rbia to Casablanca and a transfer from the Bouregreg River also to Casablanca. There are tentative plans for a large north-south water transfer project with an average conveyance capacity of around 2.74 million cubic meter/day (0.75 billion m3/year) over 500–600 km from the Sebou River basin to the water-stressed Tensift basin.\n\nWater use for municipal and industrial uses was about 2.28 billion m3 in 2003, of which 0.7 billion m3 (31%) were from groundwater and 1.58 billion m3 (69%) from surface water. Groundwater resources are overexploited in parts of the country, in particular in the Sous-Massa area in the South where irrigation is the predominant water user.\n\nSo far there is limited planned reuse of reclaimed water in Morocco, given that only 21% of the collected wastewater undergoes any treatment. In 2009 there were more than 100 wastewater treatment plants in Morocco, mostly serving small and medium-sized towns located in the interior or the country. The first wastewater treatment plants in Morocco were built by small municipalities using a wide range of technologies. Because of the limited financial and technical capacities of those municipalities practically all of these 28 plants ceased functioning shortly after they were completed. This triggered a decision in 2000 to gradually transfer the responsibility for sanitation in small and medium-sized towns to the national utility ONEP. In 2009 the latter has built or was in the process of building 43 plants, mostly using the stabilization pond technology, but also one activated sludge plant and a few trickling filter plants. The track record of operating these plants is better than for the plants operated by municipalities, partly because the predominant technology - stabilization ponds - does not require electricity. Its lower operating costs make it less vulnerable to disruptions in the case of strained operating budgets. In larger cities, only very few municipal utilities (Régies) operate wastewater treatment plants. Their track record at operating them is mixed: A plant operated by the Agadir utility works well, while plants operated by the utilities of Beni Mellal and Nador do not function. These plants use the activated sludge technology which requires electricity. The Marakkech utility was constructing a large plant in 2009, and the Fes utility was in the process of bidding for a plant. This process experienced a setback when the French development agency AFD and the European Investment Bank withdrew their financing for the plant, citing non-respect of tender procedures as the reason.\n\nCompared to the overall water use in Morocco, reclaimed water can only provide a fraction of the country's increasing water needs. Furthermore, there is no regulatory framework for water reuse and no established system to recover the costs for reclaimed water from users. The country's largest reuse project is currently under construction in Marrakech, where reclaimed water from a 90,000 m3/day plant will be reused primarily to irrigate golf courses. The tertiary treatment and the network to distribute the reclaimed water will be financed by private investors. Redal, the utility serving Rabat, was carrying out a study in 2009 to assess the feasibility of wastewater reuse to irrigate green spaces in the city. Besides this there have been a few scattered small-scale pilot reuse projects since the 1980s, some of which have been abandoned. Among the sustainable projects is a project to irrigate golf courses in Ben Slimane that has been operating since 1997 with a capacity of 5,600 cubic meter/day. In 2009 a large reuse project was planned in Agadir to irrigate a golf course and municipal gardens with 50,000 cubic meters/day. In 2009 there were also two projects for direct, planned reuse in agriculture in Oujda and Beni Mellal. These projects are financed by the National Environmental Fund and would add a tertia2bb03c3e1; centralauth_Session=1reatment plants. In 2009 the water department of the State Secretariat for Water and Environment carried out a national study for water reuse.\n\nMorocco is increasingly looking towards seawater desalination as a source to supply its increasing water needs for drinking, industry and mining. The \"Secrétariat d'État chargé de l'Eau et de l'Environnement\" has commissioned a study on desalination due to be completed by the end of 2009. Among others, the study foresees a very large new desalination plant in the Casablanca region with a capacity of around 685,000 m3/day (250 million m3/year), or more than 10% of total municipal water use in Morocco.\n\nIn May 2014 the national utility ONEE signed a Build-Operate-Transfer contract for a 100,000 m/day reverse osmosis seawater desalination plant in Agadir with a consortium between the Spanish firm Abengoa Water and the investment fund InfraMaroc. The project had been under preparation for seven years. The payment is in local currency and the Abengoa-led consortium was the only one that submitted a bid for the project that other firms considered to be too risky.\n\nIn 2011 82% of the population of Morocco had access to an improved water source. Specifically, this means that 59% of Moroccans had access to piped water in their house or in the yard of their house. As of 2004, for 11% the main source of water supply was a public stand pipe, for 5.6% it was a protected well. 1.5% of Moroccans, essentially in rural areas, relied on rainwater harvesting as their principal water source. 7% collected water from springs. Half of these springs, supplying 3.5% of the population, were estimated to be protected. All the above sources are considered as improved water sources by the WHO, thus bringing the total to 82%.\n\n18% of the population did not have access to an improved water source. This share is split up as follows: 1%, both in urban and rural areas, used water from tankers as their main water source. 7% collected water from unprotected public wells and 4% from unprotected private wells inside their home or yard. 2.5% took their water directly from rivers and open reservoirs. Another 3.5% were estimated to use an unprotected spring as their main source of water supply, so that in total 18% of the population lacked access to an improved water source.\n\nSource: \"Enquête sur la Population et la Santé Familiale\" (Population and Family Health Survey) 2004.\n\nConcerning sanitation, 83% of the urban population and 52% of the rural population had access to an improved sanitation facility in 2011. 14% of the urban population used shared latrines, which do not count as improved sanitation. 6% of the rural population used shared latrines, and 38% were estimated to defecate in the open. It is the poorest who have no access to sanitation: A 2004 World Bank study noted that \"Sewerage service is completely lacking in the peri-urban areas of secondary urban centers. Slums scattered across the bigger metropolitan areas are also deprived of access to the sewerage collection network, reinforcing the health risks and poverty stigma in those neighborhoods.\"\n\nWater supply is continuous in almost all medium and large urban centers. In the city of Layoune, which is served by a seawater desalination plant that has insufficient capacity to supply the entire city, water supply was intermittent in 2010. Only about 21 percent of collected sewage is being treated before being discharged into the environment.\n\nDuring the French Protectorate, beginning in 1912, water supply and sanitation in many large cities in Morocco were managed under a concession to the private company \"Société Marocaine de Distribution d'eau, de gaz et d'electricité\" (SMD). SMD, a consortium led by Lyonnaise des Eaux, provided services in Casablanca, Rabat, Salé, Tangiers and Meknes. Since 1950 SMD also managed a vital bulk water transfer project: The supply of water from the Oum er-Rbia river to Casablanca. Bulk water supply to other cities that were not able to supply themselves from local water sources was a responsibility of a public company called \"Régie d'exploitation industrielle du protectorat\" (REIP) created in the early 1930s. The foundations for two important elements of today's water and sanitation sector - private concessions for water distribution in large cities and a national public company for bulk water supply - were thus already laid during the protectorate.\n\nAfter independence in 1956 water distribution systems were nationalized and handed over to public companies in the major cities, the so-called \"Régies\". The bulk water supply system from the Oum Er-Rbia River to Casablanca remained in the hands of the private concessionnaire SMD. Bulk water supply in the rest of the country was entrusted to a new national water company created in 1972, the \"Office National de l'Eau Potable\" (ONEP).\n\nIn 1995 a new, comprehensive Water Law (Loi 10-95) was passed. Aimed at changing the emphasis of water resources management from supply expansion to demand management it was considered a \"paradigm shift\" at the time. It foresees measures to promote water use efficiency, better allocation of water resources and the protection of water quality through the application of the user pays principle and the Polluter pays principle. The law also provided the legal basis for the establishment of river basin agencies for integrated water resources management, inspired by examples of such agencies in France and Spain, among other countries. In 1996 the Oum Er-Rbia agency was established as the first basin agency in Morocco. In 2000 agencies in the country's other six major basins were created. However, the basin agencies took many years and they still remain relatively weak entities. More than a decade after having been passed the law it is still not fully implemented.\nAlso in 1995, the government launched an ambitious Rural Water Supply Program (\"Programme d'approvisionnement groupé en eau potable des populations rurales\" - PAGER) to face the challenge of very low access to potable water in rural areas. The program is carried out by ONEP, whose responsibility was extended from urban to rural areas through the program (see also below under innovative approaches and international good practice).\n\nFor details see Water privatization in Morocco\n\nSince the \"Régie\" serving Casablanca had a poor service record the government decided in the mid-1990s to bring in a private company to manage the city's water, sewerage and power networks. A consortium called Lydec, led by Lyonnaise des Eaux (now SUEZ), was awarded the 30-year concession without a competitive tender in 1997. The Casablanca concession paved the way for subsequent concessions in Rabat, Tangiers and Tetouan. While the Rabat concession was awarded directly to Vivendi in 1998, the concessions in Tangiers and Tetouan were awarded in 2002 after competitive bidding to Amendis, a subsidiary of Vivendi.\n\nIn 2000 the initial 50-year concession of SMD, a subsidiary of Lyonnaise, for bulk water supply to Casablanca was renewed.\n\nIn 2000 the ONEP Law was amended to include sanitation (sewerage and wastewater treatment) in ONEP's mandate. At the same time wastewater tariffs (\"redevance d'assainissement\") were first introduced, albeit at a very low level of less than 1 Dirham/m3, and a modest subsidy program was set up. In 2005 this policy was reinforced by the more ambitious National Sanitation Program (\"Programme National d'Assainissement\" - PNA).\n\nDuring a cabinet reshuffle after elections in 2007 the Ministry of Environment and Water on the one hand, and the Ministry of Energy and Mining on the other hand, were merged into a single \"Super Ministry\". Within the Ministry a State Secretary remains in charge of water and environment. The Ministry of Environment and Water had been created in 2002, grouping together responsibilities that were previously scattered over several Ministries.\n\nIn 2009 the Cabinet approved a bill (\"Loi 40 09\") that foresees a strategic alliance (\"regroupement\") between ONEP and the national electric utility ONE. The objective is to extend economies of scale in billing and maintenance, which are already achieved in the concessions and the \"Regies\" in the larger cities, to other areas of the country. The bill is inspired by reform proposals that were put forward in various studies, including one by the management consulting firm McKinsey carried out for the Ministry of Interior in 2004. In September 2011 the bill was approved by Parliament and the new entity, the \"Office National de l'Electricité et de l'Eau Potable\" (ONEE), was created. The former ONEP became its \"water branch\".\n\nAmong the various activities in water and sanitation in Morocco initiated over the past two decades, the rural water and sanitation program PAGER has been recognized as international good practice by the United Nations. In addition, an innovative output-based aid project to expand access to water and sanitation has been initiated in 2007.\n\nIn 2004 the national rural water supply program PAGER received the United Nations Public Service Award in the category improvement of public service results. The project relies on two basic principles: the use of simple technologies and the participation of beneficiaries in all stages of the project from the needs assessment to design, implementation and evaluation. The US$1bn program initiated in 1995 aims to reach 12 million people until 2010. The program has relieved women and children from the burden of carrying water. A 2001 World Bank evaluation showed that school enrollment in beneficiary communities increased by 16%.\n\nAccording to official data and reports by the Moroccan media, PAGER increased access to water in rural areas from 14% in 1995 to 61% in 2004 and 77% in 2006. According to survey data, access to house connections in rural areas increased from 10% in 1995 to 20% in 2004. According to the same survey data access to an improved water source in rural areas remained constant between 1995 and 2004 at 58%. It remains unclear how the survey data and the data of PAGER can be reconciled.\n\nIn 2007, the private concessionaires in Casablanca, Tangiers and Tetouan, as well as the public water utility of Meknes began to implement water supply and sanitation pilot projects on the basis of an innovative output-based aid approach. The objective is to extend water and sewer connections to 11.300 households in poor, unzoned, periurban neighbourhoods. The pilot projects are part of the National Human Development Initiative and are funded through a US$7 million grant by the Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) administered by the World Bank. It is the first time that GPOBA, which promotes primarily the private sector, provided grants to a public water operator. The average subsidy level per connection amounts to USD 169 for water supply and to USD 606 for sanitation. The average subsidy level per connection is 35 percent. Operators also developed awareness raising campaigns to make people aware of the option to connect to sewers through teams that go to market places. Under the output-based aid approach investments are pre-financed by the concessionaires or the public utility that are being reimbursed by GPOBA only after a verification process certifies that the households have been connected and receive an adequate service. According to the World Bank, the output-based aid approach has helped to improve processes, overcome financing obstacles and mobilize stakeholder partnership.\n\nThe key actors at the policy level in the sector are the Ministry of Energy, Mining, Water and Environment in charge of water resources management and the Ministry of Interior in charge of water supply and sanitation. At the level of service provision, key actors are the national electric and water utility ONEE, 3 private operators and 13 municipally owned utilities. The country's largest city, Casablanca, is served by the private operator Lydec. In addition to the above institutions, seven basin agencies are in charge of water resources management. These institutions are, however, still relatively weak.\n\nOverall, the sector is characterized by a complex and fragmented institutional framework, which - according to a 2004 World Bank report - \"has hindered the formulation of a comprehensive sector-wide vision and the establishment of coherent policy objectives\".\n\nThe highest political authority in the Moroccan water sector rests with the Higher Council for Water and Climate (\"Conseil Supérieur de l'Eau et du Climat\") under the Prime Minister and the Honorary Presidency of the King. It was created in 1996, replacing an earlier Higher Council created in 1981. It includes representatives of all the Ministries involved in water, representatives of regional governments and water user associations, as well as academics, professional associations and trade associations. Although the council is supposed to meet once a year as per its founding decree, it last met in 2001. Its last previous meeting was held in 1994. According to the same decree the secretariat function for the Council is assured by the Ministry of Public Works. However, all water-related functions were moved from the Ministry of Public Works to the newly created Ministry of Water and Environment in 2002.\n\nWithin the government of Morocco responsibilities for water supply and sanitation are shared by various Ministries. The Ministry of Energy, Mining, Water and Environment (\"Ministère de l'Energie, des mines, de l'eau et de l'environnement\") is in charge of water resources management and bulk water supply, while the Ministry of Interior is in charge of supervising water distribution and sanitation carried out by municipal utilities. Within the Ministry of Interior the \"Direction de l'eau et de l'assainissement\" (DEA) assists local governments with water and sanitation issues, and plays an active role in planning, implementing, and supporting the operations of basic water and sewerage infrastructure. The Directorate of Public Utilities and Concessions (DRSC), also in the Ministry of the Interior, monitors the performance of \"Régies\" and concessions\n\nCertain sector responsibilities are within the realm of other Ministries. The Ministry of Public Health (Ministère de la santé publique, MSP) is the main water quality regulator in the sector, responsible for setting and enforcing public health drinking water standards. The Directorate of Public Corporations and Privatization of the Ministry of Finance oversees the fiscal aspects of public utility operations, and the contracting of concessions. Furthermore, an Interdepartmental Commission on Prices approves proposals for tariff increases.\n\nNine river basin agencies are responsible for the management of water resources in Morocco. River basin agencies have a number of important responsibilities. They authorize water abstractions and wastewater discharges for all users, based on a basin master plan (\"Plan directeur d'aménagement intégré des ressources en eau\", PDAIRE) that they prepare. They also collect charges for abstraction and effluent discharges. They are also supposed to provide financial help and technical assistance to service providers for the prevention of water pollution and the efficient use of water resources. They also monitor the quality and quantity of both surface and groundwater and are in charge of managing water-related emergencies. Finally, they should increase public awareness about water resources. The agencies cover the following basins ranked in the order of the available water resources in each basin: Sebou River, Moulouya River, Oum Er-Rbia River, Bou Regreg River, Tensift River, Loukkos River and the Souss-Massa basin, Ziz-Er Gheris et Sakia el Hamra-Oued Eddahab. The means available to the basin agencies are largely insufficient to carry out their functions.\n\nThere are four categories of urban service providers in Morocco: private concessionnaires (38% of urban water customers), municipal utilities (31%), the national public company ONEE (28%), and municipalities providing services directly (3%). De jure, according to the municipal code of 1976 (\"Charte Communale\"), amended in 2002 and 2008, public services such as water supply, sewerage and electricity distribution are the responsibility of municipalities (\"communes\"). There are 1,547 municipalities in Morocco, including 249 urban and 1,298 rural municipalities. As mentioned above, some municipalities have delegated service provision to private concessionnaires. In other municipalities the \"Régies\" provide these services, often not on the basis of a specific contract. In the smaller municipalities ONEE often provides services, either with or without a contract (\"contrat de gestion déléguée\") with the municipality. In the case of sewers, many smaller municipalities still provide this service directly, although there is a policy to gradually transfer sewer services to ONEE.\n\nThe 2008 amendment to the municipal code allowed for the creation of municipal associations (\"groupement d'agglomérations urbaines\").\n\nThree private multi-utility concessionaires provide drinking water, sewerage services and electricity in Casablanca, Rabat, Tangiers, and Tetouan. Lydec, the concession holder in Casablanca, is owned by SUEZ Environnement (51%), the Moroccan insurance company RMA Watanya (15%) and the Moroccan investment company FIPAR-Holding (19.75%). In addition, 14.25% of the shares are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange since 2005. Amendis, the concession holder in Tangiers and Tetouan, and Radel, the concession holder in Rabat, were subsidiaries of the French multi-national Veolia Environnement. In 2013 Veolia sold its Moroccan subsidiary Veolia Environnement Maroc that holds the concession to the British private equity group Actis Capital for €370 million after requests for tariff increases had been denied by the authorities. The company had also been criticized for failing to reach its investment targets, in particular concerning access to the poor.\n\nA fourth concessionnaire provides bulk water to Casablanca.\n\n12 specialized municipally owned public operators called \"Régies autonomes\" provide water in 12 medium to large cities. The same operators also provide sanitation in 11 cities and electricity distribution services in 7 cities. The largest of the cities served by \"Regies autonomes\" are Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes and Oujda. Regies also exist in Chaouia, El Jadida, Kenitra, Larache, Safi, Tadla and Taza. Many of these utilities are owned by several municipalities (\"Régies intercommunales\"). The \"Régie Autonome de Distribution de l'Eau et de l'Elecricité de Nador\" (RADEEN) was taken over by ONEP in about 2007 as a result of the utility's failure to properly to clean up the highly polluted lagoon of Nador.\n\nONEE (\"Office National de l'Electricité et de l'Eau Potable\") is an electric utility and a bulk water provider that produces 80 percent of the country's drinking water and sells much of it to the \"Regies\" and the private concessionnaires. It also distributes water directly to customers in about 500 medium to small towns. ONEE has also taken over sanitation services in more than 65 of the towns where it distributes drinking water by 2009, and it is expected to take over sanitation services in a total of 191 towns by 2017. Furthermore, ONEE provides water through standposts to one third of the rural population that has access to an improved source of water. ONEE («Office national d'électricité et d'eau potable») was created through as alliance of the power company ONE and ONEP.\n\n40 municipalities in small towns serve 3 percent of urban customers with water (\"Régies directes\") through \"non-professional and underfunded municipal departments\". They also provide sewerage services in 280 towns (2003).\n\nThe Moroccan Association for Water Supply and Sanitation (\"Association Marocaine de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement\" - AMEPA) is a trade association created in 1997 to \"address upcoming challenges and defend the sector's interests\". It has organized a number of national and international seminars and congresses in Morocco. It also participates in international conferences. In 2009 it had 120 members, including service providers, contractors, consulting firms and professional associations. Fassi Fihri, General Director of ONEP, was the President of AMEPA as of November 2009.\n\nMorocco has a complicated system of water and sanitation tariffs and fees that consists of a large array of tariffs at different stages of the water cycle: water abstraction, sale in bulk, retail sales, as well as the collection, treatment and discharge of wastewater. Urban tariffs are differentiated by locality, by the quantity consumed, and by the type of use (residential, public, commercial and industrial). Urban tariff review mechanisms vary furthermore depending on whether the service provider is private or public, the process for the latter being more complicated and cumbersome than for the former. In general, the level of urban water tariffs is high compared to other countries in the Middle East and North Africa, making it hard to afford to the urban poor connected to the piped network. On the other hand, it is insufficient to allow for full cost recovery. 11% of all users, including a large share of poor users in both urban and rural areas, receive water for free from standpipes.\n\nAbstraction fees. ONEE and the Régies have to pay fees (\"redevances\") for water abstraction and wastewater discharge to the basin agencies. These fees were introduced on the basis of the Water Law of 1995. Their level is low, not allowing the basin agencies to cover its own administrative costs, not to speak of contributing to the financing of investments by service providers as foreseen by the law. Since their introduction the level of the fees has not been adjusted, so that in inflation-adjusted terms the value of the already low fee has been further eroded.\n\nBulk water tariffs. ONEE charges tariffs for the supply of bulk water to the private operators and the Régies. These tariffs are reviewed by the government together with the tariffs for the Régies and ONEE's retail water and sewer tariffs. Bulk water tariffs differ from one city to the other taking into account production costs. For example, bulk water tariffs for Casabalanca, where the service provider is private, are twice as high as for the neighboring city Settat. There is a 5% special tax on bulk water sales in order to finance the rural water supply program PAGER as well as another more important surtax to finance water supply in small towns.\n\nRetail water tariffs. The same retail tariff \"structure\" applies to the entire country. Water and sewer tariffs in Morocco follow an increasing-block tariff structure, under which the tariff per cubic meter rises as consumption increases. The residential tariff has four blocks, the lowest applying to consumption of less than 6 m³ per month and the highest to consumption above 40 m³ per month. However, the \"level\" of retail tariffs varies from one locality to another. Standpipe services, which are common for the urban poor, are typically free. Utilities send bills to local governments. In a few cases, standpipe management has been entrusted to a \"gardien/gérant\", who operates the faucet and charges users. According to a World Bank report, free standpipe services are pro-poor. But they are also increasingly unsustainable for operators, both in terms of wasted water (up to 40 percent) and in terms of lack of revenues. Operators are in favor of promoting individual connections in order to strengthen their revenue base.\n\nWater and sewer retails tariffs were increased in 2006 throughout the country by reducing the size of the first block of the increasing-block tariff from 8 to 6 cubic meters per month and by increasing the fixed portion of the bill. The volumetric tariff for each tariff block remained unchanged. These modifications were equivalent to an 11% (check) tariff increase.\n\nAfter the increase the average water tariff varied between Dirham 3.20 per m3 (US$0.29) in Meknes and Dirham 7.18 per m3 (US$0.66) in Casablanca. The sewer tariff varied between Dirham 0.59 per m3 (US$0.05) in Oujda and Dirham 1.64 per m3 (US$0.15) in Marrakech. In 2002 it was decided that the sewer tariff in small towns served by ONEP should become uniform for all towns, using an increasing-block structure. The average ONEP sewer tariff was Dirham 1.50 per m3 in 2009. Although a decision has been taken in 2004 to increase the sewer tariff to Dirham 2.00 per m3. However, the application of this decision has been delayed and until 2009 only sewer tariffs were only increased in one town. Nevertheless, an increase to Dirham 2.20 per m3 has been envisaged for 2009.\n\nConnection fees. In urban areas one-time connection fees for water and sewer connections are paid to the respective service provider. The level of the fees is determined based on a formula that takes into account the length of the water and sewer network in the city, as well as the length of the facade of each property (for water connection fees charged by ONEP, called \"taxe riveraine\") or the area of the property (for all connection fees charged by the Régies and private operators, as well as for sewer connection fees charged by ONEP, all together called \"Participation au Premier Etablissement\" or PPE). These fees do not include the costs of actually establishing the connection from the service line in the street, which the beneficiary has to pay himself separately. As in other countries, it also does not cover the costs of plumbing installations inside the property. Connection fees to the water and sewer network are a major source of funding for service providers. At the same time their high level constitutes an obstacle to expand the network, despite a policy to allow poor customers to pay part of the connection fee in installments that are added to the monthly water bill over a period of up to 7 years (\"branchements sociaux\"). These difficulties are illustrated by the example of Casablanca where an initial annual target of 10,000 social connections had been set, but only 1,250 were implemented every year until 2006. The National Human Development Initiative waives connection fees for selected poor urban neighborhoods \n\nAverage connection fees ranged from an equivalent of US$220 to 500 for water and US$880 to 1,650 for sewerage in 2004.\nHowever, according to another source, in 2008 the connection fee for sewerage charged by ONEP was only 1,600 Dirham (about US$145).\n\nAffordability. Data from the National Household Living Standards Survey 1998/99 assessed total expenditures for water supply at MAD 84.8/person/year in urban areas and 147.4 MAD/person/year in rural areas, or 1.8 and 2.9 percent of average total per capita expenditure.\n\nCost recovery in the sector remains a challenge. ONEE is nominally financially autonomous through its tariff revenues, but it receives investment subsidies of Dirham 150 million per year for rural water supply and half its sanitation investments are financed by the government budget and municipalities. The Regies have to rely to a large extent on connection fees for their revenues.\n\nThe investments in the water and sanitation sector increased substantially between 2003 and 2005. In urban water distribution it increased from Dirham 0.9bn to 1.5bn, in rural water supply from Dirham 0.5bn to 0.8bn, in water production from 0.3bn to 0.6bn, and in sanitation from Dirham 1.1bn to 2.8bn. Overall investments doubled from Dirham 2.8bn (US$ 337m) to 5.7bn (US$ 687m). Per capita investment in water supply and sanitation thus stood at US$21 per capita and year, a relatively high level compared to other middle-income countries.\n\nInvestments are financed from tariff revenues, various subsidies and transfers (grants and soft loans) by external partners. However, there are also substantial cross-subsidies. For example, bulk water tariffs charged by ONEE to the private concessionnaires and the \"Régies\" are higher than production costs. The surplus is used to cross-subsidize ONEE's activities in rural water supply and in sanitation, where tariffs do not cover costs.\n\nFurthermore, according to a World Bank study of 2008, there is a cross-subsidy of about Dirham 1bn from electricity users who are charged distribution tariffs that are above costs. This allows the concessionnaires and the \"Régies\" to generate the revenue necessary to pay for the inflated tariffs for bulk water, which in turn allows ONEE to cross-subsidize rural water supply and sanitation at an amount that is also about Dirham 1bn.\n\nExternal cooperation plays a major role in the Moroccan water and sanitation sector. External partners provide investment finance and technical assistance. Beginning in 2002 the African Development Bank, the European Union and subsequently the World Bank also provided budget support linked to the fulfillment of certain policy conditions. The major external partners in the sector are, in addition to the three named above, France, Germany and Japan. Other external partners are Belgium, the Islamic Development Bank, Kuwait, Luxemburg, Spain and the United States.\n\nExternal partners work increasingly together to finance joint programs instead of financing specific projects. An example is the rural water supply program PAGER initiated in 1995 that was supported by Belgium, the European Union, France, Germany, Japan, Kuwait, Luxemburg and the World Bank. A more recent example is the support for the National Sanitation Program by the European Union, France and Germany.\n\nThe African Development Bank (AfDB) has financed nine drinking water projects in Morocco since 1978. The total amount of its funding in the sector has been USD180 million until 2006, benefiting 20 Moroccan towns, in particular Tangiers. On-going projects, all executed by ONEP, include the ninth drinking water and sanitation project, appraised in 2006, which benefits rural populations in four provinces and foresees wastewater treatment in three towns (Khouribga, Oued Zem and Boujaâd) and the tenth drinking water supply project approved in 2008 which supports drinking water supply in Khénifra, Taounate, Settat, Marrakech and Tamesna as well as neighbouring small towns. In 2003 the AfDB provided a loan for a water sector adjustment program. In 2012 the AfDB approved a $157 million USD loan to finance a Marrakech Region Water Supply Project together with AFD ($68.7 million USD), ONEE and the Office Chérifien des Phosphates (OCP), each providing $66.8 million USD. It will finance bulk water transmission from the Al Massira Dam for drinking water, tourism and mining. The project is expected to be completed in 2017.\n\nThe European Union supports the sector through grants, as well as through loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The EIB has supported water supply and sanitation projects in six cities (Marrakech, Settat, Meknes, Agadir, Oujda and Fes), as well as a number of small towns. Between 1997 and 2006 it provided 10 loans totaling Euro 283m. In 2006 it approved another loan of Euro 40m for sanitation in the Sebou basin, a highly polluted river where Fes and Meknes are located. In 2002 the European Union provided a Euro 120m grant to support the first water sector adjustment program to Morocco, which aimed at rationalizing water resources management. The program's specific objectives were to effectively implement the 1995 Water Framework Law, to reduce the costs for the state budget and to increase the effectiveness of the sector institutions.\n\nWater supply and sanitation is a focal area of French development cooperation with Morocco. In 2007 the French Development Agency (AFD) supported projects with a value of Euro 130m for urban and rural water supply and Euro 145m for sanitation. Geographically the projects are concentrated in the Sebou river basin, in Agadir and in Nador. In Nador French aid contributes through a loan approved in 2007 to clean up the highly polluted lagoon of Nador, the largest lagoon in the Mediterranean. The clean-up plan for the bay is inspired by similar experiences in France (\"Contrats de Baie\") under which different public players work together for the common goal to clean up a coastal bay.\n\nGermany has supported the Moroccan water sector since the early 1980s and was among the first donors to support the Moroccan government's efforts at expanding access to sanitation in small and medium-sized towns in the early 1990s. German aid projects are administered by KfW in charge of investment projects, GTZ in charge of technical cooperation and InWent in charge of training. In 2009 the total volume of approved and on-going investment projects supported by KfW was Euro 407m, all executed by ONEP in small and medium-sized towns and rural areas. GTZ supports the Ministry of Energy, Mining, Water and Environment and three basin agencies (Tensift, Souss-Massa, and Oum er-Rbia) in improving the integrated and sustainable management of water resources. The Euro 12m project was initiated in 2008 and is scheduled to be completed in 2017.\n\nIn 2006 the Islamic Development Bank provided two loans of Dirham 270 million (about Euro 27 million) for water supply. The projects are executed by ONEP.\n\nSince 1994 JBIC has provided loans of Dirham 3.6 billion to ONEP. In 2008 JICA granted a 13.6 billion Yen (about Euro 90 million) loan to Morocco to finance rural water supply projects in the Provinces Chefchaouen, Taounate et Khénifra. The project will benefit 408 villages (douars) with 241,335 inhabitants and will be implemented until 2013. It is the most important loan provided by JICA and its predecessor JBIC to ONEP.\n\nThe Spanish government supports a number of water and sanitation projects in Morocco. A Euro 15m rural water and sanitation project implemented by ONEP in the provinces Alhucemas, Nador, Taunat and Tazaand was approved in 2006. In the field of water resources management it supported the basin agency for the Loukkos River between 2003 and 2009, as well as the basin agency for the Molouya River in 2006/07.\n\nUSAID supported improved water resources management in the Souss-Masa basin between 1999 and 2005.\n\nIn 2009 the active portfolio of the World Bank included a US$60 million loan for a rural water supply and sanitation project approved in 2005 (implemented by ONEP) and a US$7 million grant from the Global Partnership for Output-based aid to increase urban access to water supply and sanitation (implemented by the Ministry of Interior). It also includes a US$100 million loan to support the National Human Development Initiative approved in 2006, of which water supply and sanitation is an element. \n\nBéatrice Allain-El Mansouri:La concession au privé de la gestion de l’eau potable et de l’assainissement liquide au Maroc ou La ville à l’épreuve de la bonne gouvernance, Centre Jacques Berque (Rabat), 2003\n\n"}
{"id": "1643601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643601", "title": "World Tuberculosis Day", "text": "World Tuberculosis Day\n\nWorld Tuberculosis Day, observed on 24 March each year, is designed to build public awareness about the global epidemic of tuberculosis (TB) and efforts to eliminate the disease. In 2012, 8.6 million people fell ill with TB, and 1.3 million died from the disease, mostly in the Third World.\n\nWorld TB Day is one of eight official global public health campaigns marked by the World Health Organization (WHO), along with World Health Day, World Blood Donor Day, World Immunization Week, World Malaria Day, World No Tobacco Day, World Hepatitis Day and World AIDS Day.\n\n24 March commemorates the day in 1882 when Dr Robert Koch astounded the scientific community by announcing to a small group of scientists at the University of Berlin's Institute of Hygiene that he had discovered the cause of tuberculosis, the TB bacillus. According to Koch’s colleague, Paul Ehrlich, “At this memorable session, Koch appeared before the public with an announcement which marked a turning-point in the story of a virulent human infectious disease. In clear, simple words Koch explained the aetiology of tuberculosis with convincing force, presenting many of his microscope slides and other pieces of evidence.” At the time of Koch's announcement in Berlin, TB was raging through Europe and the Americas, causing the death of one out of every seven people. Koch's discovery opened the way toward diagnosing and curing tuberculosis.\n\nIn 1982, on the one-hundredth anniversary of Robert Koch's presentation, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (IUATLD) proposed that 24 March be proclaimed an official World TB Day. This was part of a year-long centennial effort by the IUATLD and the World Health Organization under the theme “Defeat TB: Now and Forever.” World TB Day was not officially recognized as an annual occurrence by WHO's World Health Assembly and the United Nations until over a decade later.\n\nIn the fall of 1995, WHO and the Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Foundation (KNCV) hosted the first World TB Day advocacy planning meeting in Den Haag, Netherlands; an event they would continue co-sponsor over the next few years. In 1996, WHO, KNCV, the IUATLD and other concerned organizations joined to conduct a wide range of World TB Day activities.\n\nFor World TB Day 1997, WHO held a news conference in Berlin during which WHO Director-General Hiroshi Nakajima declared that “DOTS is the biggest health breakthrough of this decade, according to lives we will be able to save.” WHO's Global TB Programme Director, Dr. Arata Kochi, promised that, \"Today the situation of the global TB epidemic is about to change, because we have made a breakthrough. It is the breakthrough of health management systems that makes it possible to control TB not only in wealthy countries, but in all parts of the developing world, where 95 percent of all TB cases now exist.\"\n\nBy 1998, nearly 200 organizations conducted public outreach activities on World TB Day. During its World TB Day 1998 news conference in London, WHO for the first time identified the top twenty-two countries with the world’s highest TB burden. The next year, over 60 key TB advocates from 18 countries attended the three-day WHO/KNCV planning meeting for World TB Day 1999.\n\nU.S. President Bill Clinton marked World TB Day 2000 by administering the WHO-recommended Directly Observed Therapy, Short-Course (DOTS) treatment to patients at the Mahavir Hospital in Hyderabad, India. According to Clinton, \"These are human tragedies, economic calamities, and far more than crises for you, they are crises for the world. The spread of disease is the one global problem for which . . . no nation is immune.\"\n\nIn Canada, the National Collaborating Centre for Determinants of Health noted on World TB Day 2014 that 64% of TB cases reported nationally were among foreign-born individuals and 23% among Aboriginal people, highlighting TB as a key area of concern about health equity.\n\nToday the Stop TB Partnership, a network of organizations and countries fighting TB (the IUATLD is a member and WHO houses the Stop TB Partnership secretariat in Geneva), organizes the Day to highlight the scope of the disease and how to prevent and cure it.\n\nEach World TB Day addresses a different theme. The following is a list of annual themes:\n\n\n\nThe two-year World TB Day campaign \"I am stopping TB\", launched in 2008, highlighted the message that the campaign belonged to people everywhere doing their part to Stop TB.\n\nThe World TB Day 2010 recognized people and partners who had introduced a variety of innovations in a variety of settings to stop TB.\n\nOn the occasion of World TB Day 2010, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) declared that attempts to stem the spread of tuberculosis across the globe are likely to fall well short of what is needed unless authorities in affected countries significantly increase their efforts to stop the deadly disease from breeding inside prisons. As a result of overcrowding and poor nutrition, TB rates in many prisons are 10 to 40 times higher than in the general public. The ICRC had been fighting TB in prisons in the Caucasus region, Central Asia, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Africa for more than a decade, either directly or by supporting local programmes.\n\nFor the World TB Day 2011 campaign, the goal was to inspire innovation in TB research and care.\n\nFor World TB Day 2012, individuals were called upon to join the global fight to stop TB in their lifetime.\n\nThe World TB Day 2013 campaign provided an opportunity to mark progress towards global targets for reductions in TB cases and deaths: TB mortality fell over 40% worldwide since 1990, and incidence was declining. Further progress would depend on addressing critical funding gaps: an estimated 1.6 billion US dollars needed to implement existing TB interventions.\n\nOf the 9 million people a year who get sick with TB, 3 million of them are \"missed\" by health systems. The focus of World TB Day 2014 was for countries and partners to take forward innovative approaches to reach the 3 million and ensure that everyone suffering from TB has access to TB diagnosis, treatment and cure.\n\nWorld TB Day 2015 was seen as an opportunity to raise awareness about the burden of TB worldwide and the status of TB prevention and control efforts, highlighting WHO’s vision of a world free of TB with zero deaths and suffering.\n\nWorld TB 2017 focused on joining efforts to raise awareness and eliminate Tuberculosis.\n\nWorld TB 2018 day focused on building commitment to end TB, not only at the political level with Heads of State and Ministers of Health, but at all levels from Mayors, Governors, parliamentarians and community leaders, to people affected with TB, civil society advocates, health workers, doctors or nurses, NGOs and other partners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1621275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621275", "title": "Yasuko Namba", "text": "Yasuko Namba\n\nPrior to her involvement in the Everest disaster, Yasuko Namba had been employed by Federal Express as a personnel manager in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nShe was survived by her husband, Kenichi Namba, and her brother, both of whom later traveled to Nepal with the hope of retrieving her body from Everest.\n\nOn May 10, 1996, the 47-year-old Namba reached the summit of Everest, becoming the oldest woman to do so (her record was later broken by Anna Czerwińska of Poland who summitted Everest at age 50). She was still high on the mountain rather late into the afternoon, and was descending when a blizzard struck. Namba, fellow client Beck Weathers, and their guide Mike Groom from Adventure Consultants and clients from Scott Fischer's Mountain Madness were stuck on the South Col, while a whiteout prevented them from knowing where their camp was located. Groom later said that Namba insisted on putting her oxygen mask on despite the fact that she had run out of oxygen. Both Namba and Weathers were so weak that the two guides (Groom and Neal Beidleman from Mountain Madness) had to support them. Although the group tried to head to the camp, the guides soon realized it was pointless and dangerous, and waited for a break in the storm.\n\nOne of Fischer's guides, Anatoli Boukreev, set out from Camp IV into the night to find the cluster of trapped climbers. After assisting several other people, he came back one last time for Sandy Pittman and Tim Madsen. Madsen, who assumed that Namba was dead and Weathers was a \"lost cause,\" left the two alone. The following day, Stuart Hutchinson, one of the clients on Adventure Consultants, organized a search party to find both Namba and Weathers. Hutchinson found both in such bad shape that they were unlikely to live long enough to be carried down to Base Camp, and he decided to leave the two alone to save limited resources for the other climbers.\n\nWhile Weathers survived against all expectations, and walked back to camp, Namba died from exhaustion and exposure. Jon Krakauer's book, \"Into Thin Air\", describes the anguish of Neal Beidleman, who felt guilty that he was unable to do anything more to save Namba. Boukreev's book \"The Climb\" expressed profound regret at her lonely death, saying that she was just a little 90-pound woman, and that someone should have dragged her back to camp so she could at least die among her companions. On a later expedition to Everest with the Indonesian National Team, Boukreev found Namba's body on April 28, 1997. He constructed a cairn around her to protect her from scavenging birds, and a few days later apologized to her widower for failing to save Namba's life. Later in 1997, her husband funded an operation that brought her body down the mountain.\n\nIn 2008 materials created by the PBS program \"Frontline\" for David Breashears' film \"Storm Over Everest,\" John Taske described Namba, and presented his thoughts on factors which may have contributed to her death, saying \"She was a little lady; I've never met a girl more determined. About 100 pounds in weight, no more, but as far as determination goes, she was twice that weight in determination. However, nature being what it is, hypothermia, body mass -- she had a small body mass; she would have gotten desperately cold much more quickly than an average person twice her weight.\n\nWhen asked for her thoughts regarding Namba's Seven Summits achievement and subsequent death, Junko Tabei, the first woman from Japan to summit Everest, told a reporter from United Press International, Inc. in mid-May 1996: \"I jumped for joy when I heard she did it, but I feel like I have lost my sister and I am very sorry.\"\n\nAfter the 1996 disaster, two memorial chortens were built nearby Gorak Shep by the Sherpas: one for Rob Hall and the other for Rob Hall's teammates Doug Hansen, Andy Harris, and Yasuko Namba. The two chortens are connected by prayer flags.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50169700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50169700", "title": "Yaw Ansong Jr.", "text": "Yaw Ansong Jr.\n\nYaw Ansong Jr. is CEO and co-founder of LoveRealm, a Christian Social Network he co-founded with his triplet brother (Yaw Ansong Sr.). It is currently in open beta. He is a medical practitioner by profession.\n\nHe comes from a family of 8, made up of his parents, a first brother, two older siblings who are twins and the other two who are his triplet brother and sister.\n\nOn January 4, 2016, BBC published a story explaining that Ghana was to get a \"sin-free\" Facebook. Ansong Jnr responded by saying that whilst it was trying to build a holy social network experience, its aim was to build a platform where Christ was the primal focus and not to build \"a salem of righteous people\".\n"}
