{"id": "29363487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29363487", "title": "1937 mass execution of Belarusians", "text": "1937 mass execution of Belarusians\n\nIn October 1937 there was a mass extermination of Belarusian writers, artists and statespeople by Communist authorities. This event marks the peak of the Great Purge and repressions in the Soviet-controlled East Belarus.\n\nMore than 100 notable persons were executed, most of them on the night of 29-30 October 1937. Their innocence was later admitted by the Soviet Union after Joseph Stalin's death.\n\nOn 7 September 1937 Joseph Stalin signed a list of persons to be judged by a Soviet Military commission. The list was also signed by Vyacheslav Molotov, Lazar Kaganovich, Klim Voroshilov and Nikolay Yezhov. The results of the trials related to persons from the Belarusian SSR were formulated in a different list dated 15 September 1937 and signed by Stalin, Molotov and the senior state security official Vladimir Tsesarsky. The list of people from the Belarusian SSR sentenced to execution included 103 persons, six more persons were sentenced to ten and more years of concentration camps.\n\nThe initial list was extended by the NKVD of the Belarusian SSR. People added to the list by the NKVD of Belarus are marked with an asterisk (*) in the list below. The executions took place in the Minsk internal NKVD prison (known as the Amerikanka). Journalist Leanid Marakou alleged that between 3 March 1937 and 22 May 1938, over 100,000 people fell victims of repressions by the Soviet authorities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38817938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38817938", "title": "1999 Baltimore Orioles – Cuban national baseball team exhibition series", "text": "1999 Baltimore Orioles – Cuban national baseball team exhibition series\n\nThe 1999 Baltimore Orioles – Cuban national baseball team exhibition series consisted of two exhibition games played between the Baltimore Orioles of Major League Baseball (MLB) and the Cuban national baseball team on March 28 and May 3, 1999. The first game took place in Havana, while the second was held in Baltimore. This series marked the first time that the Cuban national team had faced a squad composed solely of major league players and the first time an MLB team played in Cuba since 1959.\n\nIn the 1990s, Orioles' owner Peter Angelos lobbied the United States Government to gain permission to hold this series for three years. Various politicians, including members of the United States House of Representatives, opposed the idea and attempted to block the series. Eventually, Angelos secured the approval in 1999, after a change in United States foreign policy to Cuba under President Bill Clinton, which eased travel restrictions and increased cultural exchange.\n\nThe Orioles won the first game, which was held in Havana, by a score of 3–2 in extra innings. The Cuban national team defeated the Orioles 12–6 in the second game, which was held in Baltimore. The series introduced José Contreras to the American baseball audience; Contreras defected from Cuba in 2002 to pitch in MLB. The United States and Cuba now compete with each other and other nations in the World Baseball Classic.\n\nThe Cuban Revolution led to the overthrow of Fulgencio Batista, an ally of the United States, in 1959. Fidel Castro severed Cuba's formerly strong ties with the United States. The United States soon instituted an embargo against Cuba, which has made it illegal for United States corporations to enter into business with Cuba. The Baltimore Orioles, who were slated to hold a 1960 exhibition series against the Cincinnati Reds in Havana, moved the games to Miami, Florida.\n\nNo Major League Baseball (MLB) team had played in Cuba since March 21, 1959. Castro made attempts to lure American baseball teams back to Cuba to no avail. In the 1970s, George McGovern, a United States Senator, pushed the idea of an exchange of MLB and college basketball teams as a way to bridge the impasse between the two governments, similar to the ping-pong diplomacy that aided US-China relations; however, this was blocked by the United States Department of State.\n\nIn the 1980s, Scott Armstrong attempted to convince Edward Bennett Williams, then the owner of the Baltimore Orioles, to play a game of Cuban All-Stars against his Orioles. Williams declined, as he had a position on an advisory board in the Reagan Administration, which opposed having any business with Cuba. Armstrong discussed the idea with MLB Commissioner Bart Giamatti and MLB Players Association (MLBPA) chair Donald Fehr. Though Giamatti was interested, he died before he could pursue the idea. Fehr visited Cuba during the 1994-95 MLB strike, but could not secure an antitrust exemption.\n\nIn 1996, Peter Angelos, the new owner of the Orioles, met with Armstrong and Saul Landau, who convinced him to pursue an exhibition series between his Orioles and the Cuban national baseball team. Angelos petitioned the United States Government to permit a series. United States Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen wrote to the State Department, asking that the series be prevented. The United States Department of the Treasury denied Angelos' request on the grounds that American money may not be spent in Cuba under the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917.\n\nIn January 1999, President Bill Clinton eased travel restrictions and increased cultural exchange between the United States and Cuba, leading Angelos to again seek permission to play an exhibition game in Cuba. Angelos met with Sandy Berger, Clinton's National Security Advisor, to discuss a potential exhibition. Bud Selig, the MLB Commissioner, allowed for the exploration of the series, though it still required the approval of MLB owners and the MLBPA. The MLBPA insisted on a second game to be held in the United States. A contingent of United States Representatives, including Ros-Lehtinen, Robert Menendez, Dan Burton, Lincoln Diaz-Balart, and Rick Lazio, lobbied Fehr to try to block the series.\n\nOngoing negotiations through March yielded an agreement on March 7, 1999, over the objections of the State Department. The proceeds of the series were a major sticking point in negotiations, as it violated the United States embargo against Cuba. Instead of going to the Cuban Government, it was agreed that proceeds would fund baseball programs in Cuba.\n\nThe series created a good deal of criticism, especially among the Cuban American community. MLB umpire Rich Garcia, who is of Cuban descent, opposed the series. MLB umpires filed a grievance against MLB attempting to block them from being sent to umpire the game in Cuba, and refused to officiate the game in Baltimore. The Cuban American National Foundation protested the series. Former US diplomat Otto Reich likened the baseball match in Havana to the notion of playing soccer at Auschwitz and also the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, dismissing it as a propaganda ploy by the Cuban government.\n\nGame one took place at Estadio Latinoamericano in Havana, Cuba, on March 28, 1999. Tickets were distributed by invitation only. Angelos, Selig, and Castro sat together in box seats. One hundred schoolchildren from the Baltimore and Washington, D.C. area also traveled to Cuba on a plane chartered by Angelos. Before the game, players and coaches on both teams engated in a flag ceremony. Castro greeted the Orioles on the field, and gave his Cuban team a pep talk. Cuban baseball legend Conrado Marrero threw out the first pitch.\n\nOrioles' starting pitcher Scott Erickson allowed one run on five hits in seven innings pitched. Cuban starter José Ibar allowed a home run to Charles Johnson and was relieved in the third inning by José Contreras. Contreras pitched eight innings without allowing a run. Orioles' manager Dave Miller brought in his closer, Mike Timlin, in the eighth inning. This backfired, as Omar Linares tied the game for Cuba with a run batted in single.\n\nTied after nine innings, the game went into extra innings. Cuba had two runners on base in the 10th inning, but Mike Fetters retired Cuba without allowing a run. The Orioles won the game when Harold Baines hit a single off of Pedro Luis Lazo that scored Will Clark with the go-ahead run in the top of the 11th inning. Jesse Orosco recorded the final three outs in the bottom of the 11th, as the Orioles won by a score of 3–2.\n\n\n\nThe second game was held at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore on May 3, 1999, in front of 47,940 fans. By May 3, the Orioles had a 7–17 win-loss record in the 1999 MLB season. The Cuban national team, meanwhile, was stronger than during the first game, as the 1998–99 Cuban National Series had concluded and players who were not available for the first game of the exhibition joined the Cuban team. A 300-person delegation accompanied the Cuban team, including members of the Cuban media, students, and retired players. MLB requested the Federal Aviation Administration clear the airspace above Camden Yards for the game, in response to an attempt by a Miami-based pilot and veteran of the Bay of Pigs invasion, to drop anti-Castro leaflets over Estadio Latinoamericano during the first game.\n\nThe start of the game was delayed by rain for 56 minutes. The game was further interrupted by protesters, one of whom ran onto the field during the fifth inning and had to be thrown to the ground by César Valdez, a Cuban umpire. Contreras started the game for Cuba, and he allowed a two-run double by Baines in the first inning. Orioles' starting pitcher Scott Kamieniecki, who was on the MLB disabled list at the time, allowed four runs in the second inning to give Cuba the lead.\n\nNorge Luis Vera entered the game for Cuba in the third inning and pitched innings in relief without allowing a hit, retiring 20 of the first 22 batters he faced. His hitless streak ended when he allowed a home run to Delino DeShields in the ninth inning. Gabe Molina, who had made his MLB debut on May 1, allowed Cuba to score five runs in the ninth inning, including a three-run home run hit by Andy Morales. The Cuban national team defeated the Orioles 12–6.\n\nDanel Castro batted 4-for-5 for Cuba, including a two run batted in (RBI) triple, and scored four runs. Calvin Pickering, a rookie first baseman for the Orioles who had been promoted from the minor leagues the day prior, committed three errors.\n\n\n\nRigoberto Herrera, a member of the Cuban national team who had retired and accompanied the team from Cuba as a guest, defected to the United States during the visit. Though six retired players overslept the day after the game in Baltimore and missed their flight back to Cuba, no other members of the delegation defected.\nTo discourage defections during the exhibition in Baltimore, Cuba maintained strict security around their young players, not allowing sports agents to speak with them. Though no active Cuban players defected during the trip to Baltimore, members of the Cuban national team did defect in the years following the series. Andy Morales defected in 2000. Contreras, who was considered Cuba's best pitcher, gained international fame after the series and defected from Cuba in 2002. Nelson Díaz, a Cuban umpire who officiated the game in Baltimore, defected from Cuba to the United States in 2009.\n\nMLB and the Major League Umpires Association engaged in a dispute regarding the amount of pay owed to umpires for officiating the game that took place in Baltimore. This was one factor that led to the mass resignation of MLB umpires that took place on September 2, 1999.\n\nIn 2000, Syd Thrift, the Orioles' general manager, told \"The Washington Times\" that the team had a practice of not signing players who had defected from Cuba, which he attributed to Angelos' desire to avoid doing \"anything that could be interpreted as being disrespectful or ... encouraging players to defect\". Investigations by Major League Baseball and the United States Department of Justice did not find evidence that the absence of Cuban players on the Orioles' roster or in its minor league system was due to discrimination.\n\nThe Cuban national team next played in the United States during the 2006 World Baseball Classic (WBC). President George W. Bush attempted to prevent the Cuban team from participating in the tournament, but other nations promised to withdraw if Cuba was barred. The next American team to travel to Cuba was the Tampa Bay Rays, which played an exhibition against the Cuban national team in March 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "497433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497433", "title": "Americentrism", "text": "Americentrism\n\nAmericentrism is the tendency among some Americans to assume the culture of the United States is more important than those of other countries or to judge foreign cultures based on the standards within their own. It refers to the practice of viewing the world from an overly US-focused perspective, with an implied belief, either consciously or subconsciously, in the preeminence of American culture.\n\nThe term is not to be confused with American exceptionalism, which is the assertion that the United States is qualitatively different from other nations and is often accompanied by the notion that the United States has superiority over every other nation. \n\nAmerican television networks have been perceived to contain an Americentric bias in the selection of their material. Some American celebrities have been accused of having Americentric views.\n\nAnother instance of Americentrism is in the high focus companies have on US markets in relation to others. Often, products produced and developed outside the US are still marketed as typically American.\n\nAccording to the European Commission, internet governance (in particular that related to the NSA) is too Americentric. It criticized the major role of American company ICANN in its administration.\n\nWikipedia has been criticized for having an Americentric systemic bias with regards to its occasional preference towards US English sources, language, and spelling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30231003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30231003", "title": "Artaman League", "text": "Artaman League\n\nThe Artaman League (German language: Artamanen-Gesellschaft) was a German agrarian and völkisch movement dedicated to a \"Blood and soil\"–inspired ruralism. Active during the inter-war period, the League became closely linked to, and eventually absorbed by, the Nazi Party.\n\nThe term \"Artamanen\" had been coined before the First World War by Dr. Willibald Hentschel, a believer in racial purity who had founded his own group, the Mittgart Society, in 1906. The term was a compound noun of \"art\" and \"manen\", Middle High German words meaning 'agriculture man', and indicating Hentschell's desire to see Germans retreat from the decadence of the city in order to return to an idyllic rural past.\n\nThe Artaman League had its roots in the overall Lebensreform movement in late 19th-century and early 20th-century Germany. This movement encompassed hundreds of groups throughout Germany that were involved in various experiments tied to ecology, health, fitness, vegetarianism, and naturism (\"Nacktkultur\"). These groups held positions across the political spectrum. The far-right groups ultimately gained a following among the Nazi Party members and their supporters. Publications by right wing Lebensreformists, which sold in the tens of thousands, argued that their practices were \"the means by which the German race would regenerate itself and ultimately prevail over its neighbours and the diabolical Jews who were intent on injecting putrefying agents into the nation's blood and soil\".\n\nAlthough Hentschel had developed his ideas before World War I, the Artaman League first formed in 1923. The Artamans formed part of the German Youth Movement, representing its more right-wing back-to-the-land elements. Under the leadership of Georg Kenstler they advocated blood-and-soil policies with a strong undercurrent of anti-Slavism. This völkisch movement believed that the decline of the Aryan race could only be halted by encouraging people to abandon city life in favour of settling in the rural areas in the east. Whilst members wished to perform agricultural labour as an alternative to military service, they also saw it as part of their duty to violently oppose Slavs and to drive them out of Germany. The concepts were combined in the figure of the Wehrbauer, or soldier-peasant. Accordingly, the League sent German youth to work on the land in Saxony and in East Prussia in an attempt to prevent these areas being settled by Poles. To this end 2000 settlers were sent to Saxony in 1924 - both to work on farms and to serve as an anti-Slav militia. They also gave classes on the importance of racial purity and the Nordic race, and on the corrupting influence of city living and of Jews.\n\nLike many similar right-wing youth movements in Germany the Artaman League lost impetus as the Nazi Party grew. By 1927, 80% of its membership had become Nazis.\nThe League had disappeared by the early 1930s, with most of its membership having switched to the Nazis.\n\nAs the situation deteriorated in the late 1920s, some of the Artamans were drawn deeper into politics, and engaged in a holy war against their enemies: liberals, democrats, Free-Masons and Jews. Eventually many members of the Artaman League turned to National Socialism. Heinrich Himmler was an early member and held the position of \"Gauführer\" in Bavaria. Whilst a member of the League Himmler met Richard Walther Darré and the two struck up a close friendship, based largely on Darré's highly developed ideological notions of blood and soil to which Himmler was attracted. The Artaman vision would continue to have a profound effect on Himmler who, throughout his time as Reichsführer-SS, retained his early dreams of a racially pure peasantry. Himmler was also close to his fellow member Rudolf Höss and would later advance him in the Schutzstaffel due in part to their history in the Artaman League. The small league was dismantled and incorporated into the Hitler Jugend in October 1934 as the Nazi youth movement gained strength.\n\nThe development of a number of environmentalist groups and projects in Germany with extreme right wing politics has recently gained media attention. Since the 1990s, far-right environmentalists have taken advantage of cheap farmland made available by the post-Cold War reunification of East and West Germany, establishing themselves in Mecklenburg, \"in an effort to reinvigorate the traditions of the Artman League\". The state government of Rhineland-Palatinate has published a booklet titled \"Nature Conservation vs Rightwing Extremism\" in an effort to assist organic farmers who may encounter rightwing extremists. Gudrun Heinrich of the University of Rostock has published a study, \"Brown Ecologists\", in reference to both the current movement and the Nazi Brownshirts. The politically extreme rightwing environmental magazine \"Umwelt und Aktiv\" (Environment and Active), is believed to receive support from Germany's far-right National Democratic party (NPD). \"Der Spiegel\" has covered the \"organic brown fellowship\" (\"Braune Bio-Kameradschaft\"), and \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" has published an article on and the “infiltration [\"Unterwanderung\"] of organic farming by rightwing extremists, noting the lineage to Nazi doctrines of Aryan supremacy and ecological harmony.\n"}
{"id": "8685353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8685353", "title": "Authorization to Transport", "text": "Authorization to Transport\n\nAn authorization to transport [ATT] is a permit issued under the Canadian Firearms Program allowing transportation of restricted and prohibited firearms in Canada. An ATT may be issued to a firearms licensee, or to a non-resident of Canada not possessing a firearms licence. Section 19 of the Firearms Act (FA) details the various reasons for transportation which may be approved by the chief provincial firearms officer (CFO). \nWhile not a specific requirement under the Firearms Act, ATTs issued for regular trips for up to five years are usually reserved for people who belong to an approved shooting range. Under the Firearms Act, section 67, a CFO considering a licence renewal must confirm whether a restricted firearm or prohibited handgun is being used by the licence holder for the legitimate reasons found in FA section 28. In order to prove one has a licence to permit target shooting, regular trips to the gun range or club must be made, and repeated one-time ATTs would be a waste of resources. In contrast, a gun collector under FA section 30 might transport firearms occasionally, thus a one-time ATT would make sense.\n\nIn theory, a CFO should issue an ATT to any authorized individual who provides one of the listed reasons, as long as the CFO is satisfied that the transport \"will not endanger public safety\". A CFO can impose a variety of conditions on an ATT, under section 58(1) of the Firearms Act. Exercise of this discretion has led to proposed litigation against the CFO in Ontario.\nIn order to transport a restricted or prohibited firearm it must be unloaded. It also must have a functional trigger lock and be kept in a locked opaque case. Ammunition may be carried with the firearm or separately stored, provided it is not loaded in the gun (i.e., magazines may contain ammo, but may not be loaded in the firearm).\n\nRestricted firearms include, but are not limited to, handguns. All handguns are, at a minimum, restricted in Canada. Many handguns (common in the United States) are prohibited firearms in Canada, as their barrel length is 105 mm or less, or they are a prohibited calibre (.25 and .32).\n\nBill C-42 amended the Firearms Act, which caused ATTs to become a condition of a licence. \"Authorizations to Transport become a condition of a licence for certain routine and lawful activities such as target shooting; taking a firearm home after a transfer; going to a gunsmith, gun show, a Canadian port of exit; or a peace officer or a Chief Firearms Officer (CFO) for verification, registration or disposal\". Effective September 2, 2015, these changes to the Firearms Act came into force meaning an ATT became a condition of a licence for the foregoing routine and lawful activities. In other words, an ATT is automatically included into any valid RPAL licence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33979117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33979117", "title": "BIGOT list", "text": "BIGOT list\n\nA BIGOT list (or bigot list) is a list of personnel possessing appropriate security clearance and who are cleared to know details of a particular operation, or other sensitive information.\n\nThere are two slightly differing, but related, etymologies for the origin of the term:\n\nOne common etymology is that BIGOT is a reversal of the codewords \"TO GIB\", meaning \"To Gibraltar\". The context of this etymology is the Allied invasion of North Africa in November 1942: \"TO GIB\" was stamped on the orders of military and intelligence staff travelling from Britain to North Africa to prepare for the operation. The majority of personnel made a dangerous journey by sea, through areas patrolled by German U-boats, however certain individuals whose contribution to the campaign or whose mission was vital were classified \"BIGOT\", and were flown to Africa on a safer route via Gibraltar.\n\nSeveral sources state that BIGOT was a codeword for Operation Overlord, the Western Allies' plan to invade German-occupied western Europe during World War II, and that the term was an acronym for \"British Invasion of German Occupied Territory\". However, the term \"BIGOT\", used to designate the highest level of military secrecy, appeared on amphibious operations planning documents prior to Operation Overlord. See, for example, the BIGOT map created for use in Operation Husky, the invasion of Sicily, which took place in 1943, preceding Operation Overlord, which occurred in 1944. This map is referenced on the British Imperial War Museum site It is possible that the term itself, supposedly suggested by Winston Churchill, was a \"backronym\"—a phrase created to fit an acronym such as the existing \"To Gibraltar\" code.\n\nThe list of personnel cleared to know details of Overlord was known as the BIGOT list, and the people on it were known as \"Bigots\". The details of the invasion plan were so secret, adherence to the list was rigidly enforced. U.S. military advisor George Elsey tells a story in his memoirs about how a junior officer turned away King George VI from the intelligence centre on the , because, as he explained to a superior officer \"...nobody told me he was a Bigot.\"\n\nAlthough both derivations are of British origin, the term is widely used in the United States intelligence agencies.\n\n\n10. Major,Ben; Montbertrand,Lois; Forward Gawne, Jonathan (2011).\"Unit Serial Numbers from the 'First U.S. Army Build-Up Priority Tables, List A (D+1 through D+14)', D-Day (Normandy), Top Secret--BIGOT NEPTUNE\", lulu.com, ISBN: 978-1-4476-7681-2\n"}
{"id": "53263726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53263726", "title": "Bob Mants", "text": "Bob Mants\n\nRobert C. \"Bob\" Mants, Jr. (April 25, 1943 – December 7, 2011) was an American civil rights activist, serving as a field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He helped lead the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery; he was standing in the second rank (with Albert Turner, behind Hosea Williams and John Lewis) on Bloody Sunday. After Selma, Mants moved to Lowndes County, working for civil rights for the remainder of his life. Lowndes County contained the majority of the distance covered by the Selma to Montgomery march, and was then notorious for its racist violence.\n\nMants was born in East Point, Georgia. He graduated in 1961 from East Point/South Fulton High School, a segregated black high school. While he was attending high school, Mants was a member of the Committee on Appeal for Human Rights (which would later develop into the Atlanta Student Movement) and volunteering for administrative tasks at the headquarters of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, two blocks from his home. He would go on to attend Morehouse College with the intention of majoring in medicine, but left without graduating, working in 1964 with SNCC in Americus, Georgia. Afterwards, he would move on to Lowndes County in early 1965.\n\nWhile in Americus, Mants reported over the Wide Area Telephone Service that \"negro and white\" mobs were forming on the evening of July 6, 1964, possibly in response to riots the evening before or the integration of two downtown restaurants earlier in the day, which had occurred without incident. Mants was working to calm and disperse the mobs. An hour later, Mants reported a drive-by shooting with no reported injuries or deaths.\n\nMants and Stokely Carmichael from the SNCC first arrived in Selma to participate in the 1965 Selma-to-Montgomery march; in photographs of Bloody Sunday taken by Spider Martin, Mants can be seen wearing a patterned cap, marching next to Albert Turner just behind John Lewis after crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge; earlier that morning, Mants had participated in a prayer at the Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church, where the march originated, with John Lewis, Hosea Williams, and Andrew Young. During the violent suppression on Bloody Sunday, Mants saved a woman from a possible beating and took her away from the tear gas cloud.\n\nWhile marching to Montgomery in late March 1965, Mants was passing out buttons and leaflets when a resident of Lowndes County, pleased the civil rights movement was coming to her, memorably quoted Revelation 7:9 to him. In 1964, Lowndes County had no registered black voters, even though the county's population was predominantly black. The county was known as \"Bloody Lowndes\" or the rusty buckle of the Black Belt of Alabama because of its long, violent history of whites retaliating against blacks who tried to register to vote. When Mants and other SNCC officials began to register black voters, the newly registered voters, many of which still lived on plantations, were made homeless by the predominantly white landowners. Many of the displaced black residents were housed in a temporary \"Tent City\" and subject to intimidation over the next two years as shots were regularly fired into the encampment. In response, SNCC set up the Alabama Poor People's Land Fund to purchase plots of land and building materials to help the displaced black residents to build new homes.\n\nSNCC also tried a new strategy in Lowndes County, setting up the Lowndes County Freedom Organization (LCFO) in 1966 as an independent Black political party, adopting a snarling black panther as its logo. LCFO would in turn inspire other leaders, such as Stokely Carmichael, who adopted the structure of LCFO for Black Power, and Bobby Seale and Huey P. Newton, who adopted the black panther logo for the Black Panther Party.\n\nMants remained in Lowndes County after the march, saying \"if there was any place I wanted to raise my kids, it would be here, because they could see black people moving forward, advancing ourselves as a race.\" Mants served as a farm management specialist at Tuskegee University. In 1984, Mants was elected to the Lowndes County Commission, unseating a white incumbent, and served one term.\n\nIn 2000, Mants opposed the creation of a landfill along U.S. Route 80, the highway taken by marchers in the third Selma to Montgomery march, calling it \"an insult.\" As head of Lowndes County Friends of the Trail, he noted \"you can't commemorate [the route of the march] on the one hand and desecrate it on the other.\"\n\nBob Mants died after a heart attack on December 7, 2011, while visiting Atlanta. A memorial service was held in Lowndes County on December 17, 2011, where several speakers praised him and his three children (Kadejah, Kumasi, and Katanga) expressed their appreciation for the honors bestowed to him. In addition to his three children, Mants is survived his wife, Joann Christian (also a noted civil rights activist) and seven grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "38024144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38024144", "title": "Caleb Foundation", "text": "Caleb Foundation\n\nThe Caleb Foundation, created in 1998, is one of the leading creationist pressure groups in Northern Ireland. It also lobbies on a range of social policy issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage from an evangelical Protestant perspective, and has been particularly influential with Democratic Unionist Party ministers in the Northern Ireland Executive. The Foundation describes its mission as \"promoting the fundamentals of the historic evangelical Protestant faith\".\n\nThe Foundation was launched at a meeting held in the Park Avenue Hotel, Belfast on 16 October 1998, following an initial meeting in Ballymoney in February 1998 attended by delegates from a number of small evangelical Protestant churches. It is not a membership organisation.\n\nThe Foundation is led by a \"Council of Reference\" including ministers, pastors and other activists from a variety of small Protestant sects. The largest single denomination represented is the Free Presbyterian Church founded by Rev. Ian Paisley, with others including the Congregational Union of Ireland, the Evangelical Presbyterian, Independent Methodist, Baptist, Reformed Presbyterian, Congregational Reformed and Elim Pentecostal churches, the Church of the Nazarene and the Evangelical Protestant Society. Prominent members of the Council (in 2012) include Ron Johnstone, who succeeded Paisley as leader of the Free Presbyterian Church; DUP MLA Mervyn Storey, also a Free Presbyterian; Philip Campbell, Convenor of the Public Morals Committee of the Congregational Union, and Free Presbyterian minister Alan Smylie, who conducted the funeral service for Shankill Butcher Robert Bates.\n\nIts first chairman, until his death in 2007, was George Dawson, an activist in Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and subsequently a DUP MLA. Dawson was Grand Master of the Independent Orange Order and Treasurer of the Evangelical Protestant Society. On his death, Rev. William Park became acting chairman. Its secretary for some time after the launch in 1998, David McConaghie acted until late 2012 as its press spokesman, and held other offices in the Foundation's Council of Reference. Wallace Thompson of the Evangelical Protestant Society, who had been the Foundation's treasurer since 1998, succeeded as chairman of the Foundation in September 2009, Park becoming vice-chairman. Thompson, who was a founding member of the DUP, is also an Orangeman, a former Northern Ireland Office civil servant, and a former ministerial adviser to Nigel Dodds. It was while employed in the last role, in 2008, that Thompson in a radio interview denounced the Pope as the Antichrist. Thompson is a member of the Public Morals Committee of the Evangelical Presbyterian Church. The secretary of the Foundation is Rev. Philip Campbell, Congregational minister in Coleraine. who replaced Rev Robert McEvoy in June 2013. This change formed part of an organisational re-structuring of the Foundation with the establishment of a steering committee which is empowered to make decisions and respond to events.\n\nDocumenting the influence of the Foundation within Northern Ireland unionist politics, and particularly the DUP, the \"Belfast Telegraph\" noted in 2012 that politicians close to it included Northern Ireland health minister Edwin Poots, Minister for Social Development Nelson McCausland, junior minister Jonathan Bell, Diane Dodds MEP, Gregory Campbell MP, David Simpson MP, Paul Givan MLA, Stephen Moutray MLA (and mayor of Craigavon), Jim Allister, leader of Traditional Unionist Voice and TUV press officer and East Antrim parliamentary candidate Sammy Morrison. A leading \"Belfast Telegraph\" journalist wrote on another occasion that \"Caleb plays a role within the DUP analogous to the old Militant tendency within the Labour party.\" Also in 2012, the \"Irish Daily Star\" noted that Caleb \"claims a support base of 200,000 evangelicals\" and asked whether it had \"overtaken the Orange Order as the most influential pressure group within Unionism\".\n\nThe Foundation's lobbying to have public bodies give at least equal coverage to creationist beliefs as to scientific evidence of evolution came to attention in 1999, when McConaghie wrote in the Belfast \"News Letter\" in response to the BBC television series \"Walking with Dinosaurs\", calling for \"equal prominence to be given to the Creation creed\".\n\nIn 2006 McConaghie met senior officers of the Police Service of Northern Ireland to discuss the Foundation's request that figures for 'gay-on-gay' violence in Northern Ireland be collated and published, and that police figures for 'cohabiting same-sex' domestic violence be made available to the Foundation \"for analysis\".\n\nIn 2008 the Foundation's spokesman called for the banning of the Belfast Gay Pride parade, complaining of the \"gratuitously offensive and deliberately provocative behaviour emanating from participants\". Also in 2008, the Foundation's website carried a photograph of a shop window display in Enniskillen and asked: \"Is one of Northern Ireland's leading clothes chains promoting homosexuality?\", pointing out \"a pair of female mannikins [sic.] in the window of their Enniskillen store, holding hands.\"\n\nThe Foundation lobbied the Ulster Museum in 2010 to feature creationist theories in its displays. The Foundation wrote to DUP minister Nelson McCausland and to National Museums Northern Ireland to express their concerns about the Museum's Nature Zone exhibits which described evolution as fact. McCausland subsequently wrote to the Museum trustees calling for alternative views of the origin of the universe to be accommodated in the museum's natural history displays.\n\nIn 2010 the British Centre for Science Education published an 11,000-word report which accused the Foundation of promoting Christian fascism and Dominionism, aiming to make Northern Ireland a \"fundamentalist Protestant theocracy\".\n\nIn 2011-12 the Foundation's press officer, David McConaghie, by then a full-time DUP official, lobbied two DUP ministers in the Northern Ireland Executive - McCausland and Arlene Foster - to have creationist theories included in displays at the new visitor centre at the Giant's Causeway. The lobbying involved other DUP members and evangelical churches. The National Trust included a \"younger Earth\" version of the origins of the Giant's Causeway at the visitor centre. In July 2012 McConaghie welcomed this as \"recognition of the view, held by scientists right across the spectrum, that the scientific evidence points to a much younger age of the universe and to the direct involvement of a Divine Creator.\" However, following widespread objections to the creationist content, the National Trust removed the display in October 2012.\n\nThe Foundation has also lobbied for more representation by evangelical churches on BBC Northern Ireland, and in opposition to the relaxation of Sunday trading laws, the extension of gay rights, Sunday sport, a Marie Stopes clinic in Belfast and same-sex marriage. McConaghie met senior personnel from education bodies to lobby for the inclusion of a creationist viewpoint in the Northern Ireland curriculum. Other issues on which the Caleb Foundation has lobbied include the reform of prostitution laws, raising the retail price of alcohol and limiting pub opening hours, opposing the review of the abortion laws to include rape and foetal abnormality, and banning of gay adoption. While it did not specifically lobby for a ban on blood donation by gay men, it \"approved of the position of the minister\" Edwin Poots in retaining the ban.\n\nIn November 2012 the Caleb Foundation announced that McConaghie had \"voluntarily stepped down\" from his role as its press officer, after he was arrested and charged with concealing a camera in a toilet cubicle for purposes of sexual gratification. In October 2015, McConaghie who used a secret camera to spy on women in toilet, was convicted of voyeurism.\n"}
{"id": "187092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187092", "title": "Ceremonial mace", "text": "Ceremonial mace\n\nA ceremonial mace is a highly ornamented staff of metal or wood, carried before a sovereign or other high official in civic ceremonies by a mace-bearer, intended to represent the official's authority. The mace, as used today, derives from the original mace used as a weapon. Processions often feature maces, as on parliamentary or formal academic occasions.\n\nThe earliest ceremonial maces were practical weapons intended to protect the king's person, borne by the Sergeants-at-Arms, a royal bodyguard established in France by Philip II, and in England probably by Richard I, (c. 1180). By the 14th century, these sergeants' maces had started to become increasingly decorative, encased in precious metals. As a weapon, the mace fell out of use with the disappearance of heavy armor.\n\nThe history of the civic mace (carried by the sergeants-at-arms) begins around the middle of the 13th century, though no examples from that period remain today. The oldest civic mace in England (still remaining today) is that of Hedon. It was granted (along with an important charter) in 1415. At the time, ornamented civic maces were considered an infringement of one of the privileges of the king's sergeants, who alone deserved to bear maces enriched with costly metals, according to a House of Commons petition of 1344. However, the sergeants of London later gained this privilege, as did later those of York (1396), Norwich (1403–1404), and Chester (1506). Records exist of maces covered with silver in use at Exeter in 1387–1388; Norwich bought two in 1435, and Launceston others in 1467 and 1468. Several other cities and towns subsequently acquired silver maces, and the 16th century saw almost universal use.\n\nEarly in the 15th century the flanged end of the mace (the head of the war mace) was carried uppermost, with the small button bearing the royal arms in the base. By the beginning of the Tudor period, however, the blade-like flanges, originally made for offence, degenerated into mere ornaments, while the increased importance of the end with the royal arms (afterwards enriched with a cresting) resulted in the reversal of the position. The custom of carrying the flanged end upward did not die out at once: a few maces, such as the Winchcombe silver maces, which date from the end of the 15th century, were made to be carried both ways. The Guildford mace provides one of the finest of the fifteen specimens of the 15th century.\n\nCraftsmen often pierced and decorated the flanged ends of the maces of this period beautifully. These flanges gradually became smaller, and by the 16th or early 17th century had developed into pretty projecting scroll-brackets and other ornaments, which remained in vogue until about 1640. The next development in the embellishment of the shaft was the reappearance of these small scroll-brackets on the top, immediately under the head of the mace. They disappear altogether from the foot in the last half of the 17th century, and remain only under the heads, or, in rarer instances, on a knob on the shaft. The silver mace-heads were mostly plain, with a cresting of leaves or flowers in the 15th and 16th centuries. In the reign of James I of England they began to be engraved and decorated with heraldic devices and similar ornamentation.\n\nAs the custom of having sergeants' maces began to die out about 1650, the large maces borne before the mayor or bailiffs came into general use. Thomas Maundy functioned as the chief maker of maces during the English Commonwealth. He made the mace for the House of Commons in 1649. This mace is still in use today, though without the original head. The original head, which was not engraved with regal symbols, was replaced by one with regal symbols at the time of the Restoration of the monarchy. Oliver Cromwell referred to the House of Commons mace as \"a fool's bauble\" when he dissolved the Rump Parliament in 1653.\n\nThe ceremonial maces of the Australian House of Representatives and the Australian Senate symbolise both the authority of each chamber and the royal authority of Australia's monarch.\n\nThe ceremonial mace of the Senate of Australia is the Black Rod. The ceremonial custodian of the Black Rod is the Usher of the Black Rod.\n\nThe Sergeant-at-Arms of the Australian House of Representatives is the ceremonial custodian of the Mace of the House. At the beginning and end of every day the House sits, the Speaker of the House enters and leaves the House preceded by the Sergeant-at-Arms carrying the mace on his or her right shoulder. The current Mace is made of gilded silver, and was a gift to the House from King George VI on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Federation in 1951. It was presented to the House by a delegation of members of the British House of Commons.\n\nIn May 1914, Labor MP William Higgs played a practical joke on the House by hiding the mace under one of the opposition frontbenches. It was not found for two hours, and police were called in as it was assumed to have been stolen. After initially denying his role in the incident, Higgs apologised to his colleagues the following week, stating he had acted in \"a spirit of frivolity\". His admission that he was \"entirely to blame\" was met with cheers.\n\nThe ceremonial maces in the Bahamas symbolise both the authority of each chamber and the Royal authority of Elizabeth II, the Queen of the Bahamas.\n\nOn 27 April 1965, a day known in the Bahamas as \"Black Tuesday\", Lynden Pindling, then Opposition Leader, threw the 165-year-old Speaker's Mace out of a House of Assembly window to protest against the unfair gerrymandering of constituency boundaries by the then ruling United Bahamian Party (UBP) government. The Speaker tried to restore order but he was reminded by Labour leader Randol Fawkes that the business of the House could not legally continue without the mace. The badly damaged mace was recovered by the Police and returned to the House.\n\nOn 3 December 2001, Cassius Stuart and Omar Smith, leader and deputy leader of the Bahamas Democratic Movement, a minor political party, charged from the public gallery onto the floor of the House of Assembly and handcuffed themselves to the Mace in protest against \"unfair gerrymandering\" of constituency boundaries by the Free National Movement (FNM) government. The Mace was unable to be separated from the men and the sitting of the House had to be suspended. The pair were jailed for almost two days but no charges were brought against them.\n\nThe ceremonial maces in the Canadian Senate and House of Commons embody the authority each chamber derives from the country's sovereign. \nThe current mace in the Commons is the Fourth mace, a replica of the Third one destroyed by fire at the Centre Block in 1916.\n\nA similar practice is employed in each of the provincial and territorial legislatures, with a mace representing the sovereign's authority and power in each of the respective legislatures.\n\nIn Canada, each of the legislatures follow a relatively standard protocol in relation to the ceremonial mace; the speaker of the house normally enters following a mace-bearer (normally the sergeant-at-arms), who subsequently sets the mace on the clerks' table to begin the sitting. When the sergeant-at-arms removes the mace from the table, the House has either adjourned, recessed, or been resolved into a committee of the whole. Before the reigning monarch or one of his or her representatives (the governor general or one of the lieutenant governors) may enter a legislative chamber, the mace must be completely hidden from view. This is done by draping the mace in a heavy velvet cloth, a procedure performed by the house pages. During the election of the speaker, the mace is removed from the table to show that the house is not fully constituted until the new speaker takes the chair and the mace is laid on the table.\n\nThe first mace was used by the Chamber of Upper Canada's first Parliament in 1792 at Newark (now Niagara-on-the-Lake) and then moved to York (now Toronto). This first mace was a primitive wooden implement, painted red and gilt and surmounted by a crown of thin brass strips. It was stolen by American troops as a prize of war during the Battle of York of the War of 1812 in 1813. The mace was stored at United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland and remained in the United States until 1934 when it was returned to Ontario when President Franklin Roosevelt sent an order to Congress to return the mace. It was stored at the Royal Ontario Museum for a time, and is now located in the Main Lobby of the Ontario Legislative Building.\n\nA second mace was introduced in 1813 and used until 1841.\n\nThe third mace was not purchased until 1845. In 1849, when the Parliament for the United Provinces of Canada was sitting in Montreal, it was stolen by a riotous mob, apparently intent upon destroying it in a public demonstration. It was rescued and returned to the Speaker, Sir Allan MacNab, the next day. Later, in 1854, the Mace was twice rescued when the Parliament Buildings in Quebec were ravaged by fire. The Mace continued to be used by the Union Parliament in Toronto and Quebec until Confederation in 1867, when it was taken to the Parliament of Canada in Ottawa, where it remained in the House of Commons until 1916. When the Parliament Buildings were gutted by fire during that year, the Mace could not be saved from Centre Block. All that remained was a tiny ball of silver and gold conglomerate.\n\nBeing a symbol of the power and authority of a legislative assembly, a precedent was set in 2002 as to the severity of acts of disrespect toward the mace in Canada and, by proxy, the monarch. After Keith Martin, federal Member of Parliament for Esquimalt—Juan de Fuca, seized the ceremonial mace of the House of Commons from the clerk's table on April 17, 2002, the speaker of that chamber ruled that a \"prima facie\" breach of the privileges of the house had occurred, and contempt of the house been committed. Martin was not permitted to resume his seat until he had issued a formal apology from the bar of the house, pursuant to a motion passed in response to the incident.\n\nThe ceremonial mace of the Parliament of Ontario is the fourth mace to be used in Upper Canada or Ontario.\n\nThe first, second and third maces used in Ontario, are mentioned above, and were used by the Parliament of Upper Canada and Union Parliament.\n\nAfter Confederation, where the third mace moved with the new Parliament of the Dominion of Canada to Ottawa. The current mace used in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario was acquired in 1867. It was provided by Charles E. Zollikofer of Ottawa for $200. The Four-foot mace is made of copper and richly gilded, a flattened ball at the butt end. Initially, the head of the mace bore the crown of Queen Victoria and in a cup with her monogram, V.R. When she was succeeded by Edward VII in 1901, her crown and cup were removed and a new one bearing Edward's initials on the cup was installed. Eventually, it was replaced with the current cup which is adorned in gleaming brass leaves.\n\nThrough some careful detective work on the part of Legislative Assembly staff, the original cup with Queen Victoria's monogram was recently found in the Royal Ontario Museum’s collection and returned to the Legislature. It is now on display in the Ontario Legislative Building.\n\nIn 2009, two diamonds were installed in the Mace. The diamonds were a gift to the people of Ontario from De Beers Canada to mark the opening of the Victor Mine near Attawapiskat in northern Ontario. Three diamonds were selected from the first run of the mine. Two stones, one rough and one polished, were set in platinum in the crown of the Mace while the third stone, also polished, was put on exhibit in the lobby of the Legislative Building as part of a display about the history of the Mace.\n\nThe National Assembly, the sole chamber of the Parliament of Guyana, has a ceremonial mace. In March 1991, Isahak Basir, a member of the People's Progressive Party (in opposition at the time), was expelled from parliament for removing the mace from its place on the table, and also for throwing his drinking glass at the Speaker.\n\nThe silver gilt mace of the old Irish House of Commons, which dates to 1765/1766 is now displayed in the old Irish House of Lords Chamber in the old Parliament House which since 1803 has been Bank of Ireland, College Green in Dublin. The silver gilt mace of the old Irish House of Lords is on permanent display at the National Museum, Collins Barracks.\n\nCity councils and universities in Ireland often possess a ceremonial mace.\n\nThe House of Representatives and the Senate of the Philippines each have a respective mace. The maces are almost identical.\n\nThe mace of the House of Representatives serves as a symbol of authority and in the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. It serves as a guarantee for the Sergeant-at-Arms in enforcing peace and order in the House upon the Speaker's instruction. Upon every session, the mace is placed at the foot of the Speaker's rostrum. The mace is topped by the official seal of the House of Representatives.\n\nThe mace of the Senate also serves as a symbol of authority. It is also displayed at the Senate President's rostrum every session. As with the House of Representatives, the Sergeant-at-Arms also serves as the custodian of the mace. When there is disorderly conduct in the Senate, the Sergeant-at-Arms brings the mace from its pedestal and presents it to the senators causing the disorder, a signal to stop such behavior. The official seal of the Senate also tops the mace.\n\nThe ceremonial jeweled mace, symbolizing the authority of the Parliament of Sri Lanka, is kept in the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms. The mace, when kept on its stand in the Chamber, signifies that the House is in session. At the commencement of a Session, the Serjeant-at-Arms bearing the mace accompanies the Speaker when entering and leaving the Chamber. The mace has to be legally brought into the House at the appointed time and removed at the end of the Session. Therefore, unauthorized removal of the mace cannot invalidate proceedings.\n\nThere are ten large silver-gilt maces of the sergeants-at-arms kept as part of the Crown Jewels in the Jewel House at the Tower of London. Two date from the reign of Charles II, two from the reign of James II, three from William III and Mary II's reign, and one from Queen Anne's reign (the royal cypher of George I has been added to the latter). All these are of a type almost universally adopted, with slight variations, at the Restoration. Each mace weighs an average of . In the Houses of Parliament, two ceremonial maces represent the monarch's authority. The monarch is referred to as the \"third part of Parliament\" and signs into law the Bills which are voted on and passed in Parliament. Parliament cannot lawfully meet without the Mace, representing the monarch's authority, being present in the chambers. The maces are carried into, and out of, the two chambers in procession at the beginning and end of each day. The House of Lords has two maces, one of which is carried by the Yeoman Usher of the Black Rod and placed behind the Lord Speaker on the Woolsack when the House is sitting. In the House of Commons, a mace, carried by the Serjeant-at-Arms, is placed on brackets at the end of the Table of the House in front of the Speaker. When the Commons sits as a Committee of the Whole House, or when Finance Bills are discussed, the Mace sits under the table. Two maces from the Jewel House are carried in the royal procession at State Openings of Parliament and at coronations.\n\nIn 1653, during the Rump Parliament, Oliver Cromwell derided the mace as a \"fools' bauble\" and ordered his troops to take it away.\n\nIn 1930, John Beckett, a member of the Labour Party, was suspended from the House of Commons for showing disrespect to the mace by trying to leave the chamber with it as a protest against the suspension of another member; it was wrestled from his grip at the door.\n\nIn 1976, Michael Heseltine, a member of the Conservative Party, seized the mace from the table and held it above his head after Labour MPs on the government side started to sing \"The Red Flag\", the traditional anthem of the Labour Party, during a heated debate on the controversial Aircraft and Shipbuilding Industries Bill, which nationalised large parts of the UK aerospace and shipbuilding industries.\n\nIn 1988, Ron Brown, Labour MP for Leith, Scotland, picked up the mace during a debate on the so-called poll tax and threw it to the floor in protest at the government's proposals. The mace was damaged, and Brown was ordered to pay £1,500 towards the cost of repairs.\n\nIn 2009, John McDonnell, Labour MP for Hayes and Harlington, in which Heathrow Airport is located, was suspended from the Commons after disrupting a debate on the proposed expansion of the airport. Following the Transport Secretary's announcement that the government had decided to approve a new runway without a vote in the Commons, McDonnell took the mace and dropped it on an empty bench. He was named by the Deputy Speaker and suspended from the Commons for five days for contempt of Parliament.\n\nThe Lord Mayor of London is preceded by both a Mace Bearer and a Sword Bearer. This is only for his status as head of the City of London Corporation: as an alderman he is also accompanied, as are the other 25 aldermen, by his ward beadle, carrying the ward mace. All are displayed and used on the City's eight grand ceremonial occasions of each year. There are many more maces in store than the current number in use, because each division of the wards and their parishes also had its own mace. The City also has a Crystal Sceptre, not strictly a mace, made of crystal and gold set with pearls; the head dates from the 15th century, while the mounts of the shaft are older, dating from the early Middle Ages. These various maces take many forms and are from different periods, but most are no earlier than the Restoration of King Charles II. A mace of a most unusual form from that period is that of the Tower Ward of London, whose head resembles the White Tower in the Tower of London, complete with tiny cannons.\n\nMayoral and aldermanic maces are carried in ceremonial processions in other boroughs and cities throughout England as symbols of the authority of the mayor or lord mayor and council, although the office of alderman has largely been abolished. A mace is commonly of silver gilt, the largest examples being the great maces of the cities of Oxford, Winchester, and Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nIn 1663, Charles II presented a silver-gilt mace to the Royal Society, which he founded in 1660. It is very similar to the maces used in the Houses of Parliament and has the royal cypher \"C.R.\". Most livery companies have their own mace, as do county councils throughout England.\n\nThe present Scottish Parliament has a silver mace, which was designed in 1999 and incorporates a gold wedding ring. The Scottish Parliament was presented with this mace by Queen Elizabeth II at the opening ceremony on 1 July 1999. It was designed and crafted by Michael Lloyd, a renowned silversmith who has a studio in south-west Scotland. The mace is constructed of Scottish silver with an inlaid band of gold panned from Scottish rivers. The gold band is intended to symbolise the marriage of the Parliament, the land, and the people. The words \"Wisdom, Justice, Compassion, Integrity\" are woven into thistles at the head of the mace to represent the aspirations of the Scottish people for the Members of their Parliament. The head of the mace bears the words: \"There shall be a Scottish Parliament – Scotland Act 1998\".\n\nThe Lord President's Mace (sometimes known as the Old Exchequer Mace) dates from 1667. It is made of gilt solid silver, measures 4 ft 8 inches and weighs 17 lb 5oz. In 1856, on the merging of the courts, it was transferred from the Court of Exchequer to the First Division of the Court of Session to be used by the Lord President. The mace remains in daily use in the court. The mace, and lesser ones used in the other courts, are borne by Macers, officers of the court who act as assistants to the judges. The Lord President's Mace is borne by the Falkland Macer. A new mace was presented to the Court in 2006.\n\nThe silver mace with crystal globe of the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland, at Holyrood Palace, was made about 1690 by Francis Garthorne.\n\nThe National Assembly for Wales has a gold, silver and brass mace which bears the Assembly's official symbol at its head. The mace was presented to the assembly by the Parliament of New South Wales at the ceremony to mark the official opening of the Assembly Building, the Senedd, in Cardiff on St David's Day in 2006. Melbourne goldsmith Fortunato Rocca was commissioned in 2002 to design it. The mace took 300 hours to craft and is made of gold, silver and brass. In 2006, it was worth around £10,500 (A$25,000) and was handed over to the National Assembly during the opening ceremony. Before then, the assembly used a glass, gold, iron and coal sculpture known as the \"Tlws\" as its mace. The Tlws was presented to the assembly by the Queen at the official opening of the First Assembly in 1999 and currently resides in the Siambr Hywel debating chamber in the Tŷ Hywel building adjoining the Senedd.\n\nSome district councils in Northern Ireland, e.g. Belfast, also meet with maces present.\n\nThe civic maces of the 18th century follow the British type, with some modifications in shape and ornamentation, but most (with the exception of Virginia and South Carolina) incorporate republican imagery as opposed to the monarchical imagery of the previous maces, although arguably imperial Roman imagery is what most influenced their form. Examples of English silver maces in North America include one dating to 1753 at Norfolk, Virginia, and the mace of the state of South Carolina, dating to 1756. The Maryland House of Delegates also has a very old ceremonial mace, although it is the plainest of all, having no ornamentation save some carved vegetation designs at its head. (In addition, there are two maces in Jamaica, made in 1753 and 1787; one belonging to the colony of Grenada, made in 1791, and the Speaker's Mace at Barbados, dating from 1812.)\n\nThe current Mace of the United States House of Representatives has been in use since December 1, 1842. It was created by William Adams at a cost of $400 to replace the first mace, which was destroyed on August 24, 1814 when the Capitol was destroyed in the burning of Washington by the British during the War of 1812. A simple wooden mace was used in the interim.\n\nThe current mace is nearly four feet tall and is composed of 13 ebony rods tied together with silver strands criss-crossed over the length of the staff. This design shows the staff with the appearance of a bundled fasces, sans ax, symbolizing unity, the rods representing the 13 original States. It is surmounted by a globus, symbolising dominion, and above that the American eagle with outstretched wings.\n\nWhen the House is in session, the mace stands in a cylindrical pedestal of green marble to the right of the chair of the Speaker of the House. When the House is meeting as the Committee of the Whole, the mace is moved to a pedestal next to the desk of the Sergeant at Arms. Thus Representatives entering the chamber know with a glance whether the House is in session or in committee.\n\nIn accordance with the Rules of the House, when a Member becomes unruly the Sergeant at Arms, on order of the Speaker, lifts the mace from its pedestal and presents it before the offenders, thereby restoring order. This occurs very rarely.\n\nAmong other maces (more correctly described as staves) in use today are those carried before ecclesiastical dignitaries and clergy in cathedrals and some parish churches. Other churches, particularly churches of the Anglican Communion, a verger ceremoniously precedes processions.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church maces used to be carried before Popes and Cardinals.\n\nCeremonial maces, symbols of the internal authority over members and the independence from external authority, are still used at many educational institutions, particularly universities. The University of St Andrews in Scotland has three maces dating from the 15th century. The university also has four other maces of a more recent origin. These are on permanent display at the Museum of the University of St Andrews. The University of Glasgow has one from the same period, which may be seen in its arms. University of Innsbruck and its sister Medical University are in possession of maces from 1572, 1588 and 1833, which were confiscated by the Habsburgs from the University of Olomouc in the 1850s. At the University of Oxford there are three dating from the second half of the 16th century and six from 1723 and 1724, while at the University of Cambridge there are three from 1626 and one from 1628. The latter was altered during the Cromwellian Commonwealth and again at the Stuart Restoration. The mace of the general council of the University of Edinburgh has a threesided head: one with the seal of the University; one with the university's coat of arms and the third with Edinburgh's coat of arms of the City of Edinburgh. The wood for the shaft of the mace is from Malabar and was presented by the Secretary of State for India (R. A. Cross) at the First International Forestry Exhibition (1884). The mace of the Open University reflects its modernist outlook, being made from titanium.\n\nIn the United States, almost all universities and free-standing colleges have a mace, used almost exclusively at commencement exercises and borne variously by the university or college president, chancellor, rector, provost, the marshal of the faculty, a dean or some other high official. In those universities that have a number of constituent colleges or faculties, each college, faculty or school often has a smaller mace, borne in procession by a dean, faculty member or sometimes a privileged student. In 1970, Cornell professor Morris Bishop was acting as marshal at a graduation ceremony when a radical student attempted to grab the microphone; Bishop fought him off with the mace.\nIn Canada, some universities have a mace that is used as part of the ceremonial process of conferring degrees during convocation and other special events. The mace is carried by a special university official like a beadle.\n\nIn South Korea, Pohang University of Science and Technology has a mace as a part of its ceremonial functions.\nIn the Philippines, the University of Santo Tomas has a pair of twin maces belonging to the Rector Magnificus. These symbolize his spiritual and temporal power as the highest authority of the university. Made of pure silver and measuring 95 centimeters by 15 centimeters in diameter, the maces have existed since the 17th century and have been used in academic processions ever since. Candidates for doctoral degrees were accompanied by the Rector in a parade called \"Paseo de los Doctores\" from Intramuros to Santo Domingo Church, where University commencement exercises were held until the 17th century. Today, faculty members hold processions at the opening of each academic year and during solemn investitures in academic gowns, following the style of Spanish academic regalia. The maces, carried by beadles or macebearers, were included in the parade for their academic symbolism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58186743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58186743", "title": "Chicago Milk Commission", "text": "Chicago Milk Commission\n\nThe Chicago Milk Commission (CMC) was formed in 1908 to combat the consumption of unpasteurized milk which was regarded as a leading cause of infant death in the Chicago area. It established \"milk stations\" throughout the city, which provided free pasteurized milk. The staff and volunteers of the CMC created the Infant Welfare Society of Chicago in 1911.\n\nIn 1916 the Milk Producers Association started a series of milk strikes, to increase the price paid by Chicago dealers. By 1917 the rising price of milk lead to much reduced consumption (25% that year alone) causing concerns about child welfare. The CMC set the price to 13 cents per quart, for home delivery, a cent less than the prevailing price.\n\n"}
{"id": "56180131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56180131", "title": "Conference of the Three Internationals", "text": "Conference of the Three Internationals\n\nThe Conference of the Three Internationals took place in Berlin between 2–6 April 1922. The three internationals were the Berne International, the International Working Union of Socialist Parties (also known as the Vienna International or the 2½ International) and the Communist International or 3rd International.\n\nThe Vienna International had been founded on February 27, 1921, uniting left-wing social democratic parties. Friedrich Adler of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ) was appointed secretary, something which reinforced the influence of Austromarxism amongst the adherents.\n\nThe Berne International agreed to attend on condition that three issues were added to the agenda: Georgia, socialist prisoners in Russia and the role of Communist cells in the social democratic trade unions.\n\nThe attendees sat around a T-shaped table with the 2½ International occupying the cross piece, with the 2nd and 3rd internationals facing one another.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41286935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41286935", "title": "Corruption in Portugal", "text": "Corruption in Portugal\n\nCorruption in Portugal is examined on this page.\n\nTransparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013 reveals that political parties, Parliament, the judiciary and the military are the most corrupt institutions in Portugal. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 29th place out of 180 countries.\n\nThe exposure of high-profile corruption cases in the media and the limited political engagement have contributed to poor public perception of political corruption in Portugal. Recurring corruption scandals involving high-level politicians, local administrators and businesses abusing public funds have revealed that safeguards to counter corruption and abuse of power have been relatively inefficient, according to the National Integrity System Assessment 2012 by the Portuguese chapter of Transparency International (TIAC).\n\nRegarding business and corruption, several sources indicate that corruption plays a limited role in Portugal's business culture. Foreign companies reportedly encounter limited corruption, but they do not consider corruption an obstacle for foreign direct investment. Access to financing and inefficient government bureaucracy are considered the most problematic factors for doing business, according to the surveyed business executives from World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014.\n\nThe EU report on corruption, revealed that the Portuguese perceive the a high level of corruption (with 90% answering that corruption is widespread, compared to an EU average of 76%). However, the same report reveals that, when asked if they had actually witness corruption, only 1% responded positively (with an EU average of 5%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45616910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45616910", "title": "Crusader Kings II: Sword of Islam", "text": "Crusader Kings II: Sword of Islam\n\nCrusader Kings II: Sword of Islam is a downloadable content pack developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive for the grand strategy wargame \"Crusader Kings II\". It allows the player to play as Muslim characters within the main game for the first time, and introduces a number of events and gameplay elements for those characters, such as decadence and polygamy.\n\nIn the original game, the player can play as any Christian dynasty. \"Sword of Islam\" expands that premise, to allow the gamer to play as any of the Islamic characters in the game, and introduces new events and actions only available to the characters of those related religions. The graphical interface was re-designed for use when playing an Islamic character. The new actions include celebrating Ramadan and sending their player-character on a pilgrimage to Mecca, known as the Hajj. The level of detail given in that action includes allowing the player to decide whether the character to proudly or humbly chant while walking around the Kaaba during the Tawaf.\n\nThe expansion introduced a new gameplay attribute for Islamic characters, known as decadence. It was intended to show stagnation in a dynasty, leading to lower troop morale and tax income from their held lands. The decadence levels are generated by the number of males who do not hold titles within the family, and can build up over time. This adds a level of family management to the game, as the player can choose whether to give them territory or attempt to have them killed in order to remove the increasing levels of decadence. Further to the family management side of the game, the expansion also introduced the ability to have multiple wives for the first time, but is only allowed for Islamic religions. Should the character not have sufficient wives to match the level of their station, then it will impact on their prestige.\n\nA non-Islamic related change in \"Sword of Islam\" was an update to the way in which the game approaches assassinations and plots. Whereas in the original game, it would display a percentage chance of having a character killed by the action, the updated mechanic has characters work together on those assassinations over time. For example, another character might suggest killing someone by using fertilizer as the basis for an explosive.\n\n\"Sword of Islam\" was the first major expansion to \"Crusader Kings II\". It was first announced in May 2012, to be released later that year in June. It was intended to allow players to play as Muslim characters and rulers, but also to introduce a new style of gameplay for those types of characters. The lead on the project, Henrik Fåhraeus, said that the decadence system was the hardest part of the expansion to balance correctly, but also the part that he felt proudest of.\n\n\"Crusader Kings II: Sword of Islam\" was released as downloadable content on June 26, 2012. The release of \"Sword of Islam\" coincided with a patch which changed some elements of the main game. These included an introduction of minor and major claims on land for characters, and a map extension, going further south west into Africa to add Mali and Ghana. Additional de jure empires were also introduced, such as a united British Isles forming the Britannia Empire and a united Scandinavian region forming the Empire of the same name.\n\nIn a preview piece for Kotaku, Luke Plunkett described the idea behind \"Sword of Islam\" as \"awesome\" due to the normal lack of opportunity to play realistic Islamic or Middle Eastern characters in video games whilst dismissing the \"fairy-tale\" and \"cliched ideal\" of \"Prince of Persia\". James Tanaleon reviewed the expansion for Wargamer.com, and called it a \"excellent and a much needed expansion\". He added that it was a waste not to have Muslim characters playable in the original game, and that the expansion was a \"positive step forward\" for Paradox Interactive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42784066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42784066", "title": "Defence Reform Act 2014", "text": "Defence Reform Act 2014\n\nThe Defence Reform Act 2014 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It has 51 sections and seven schedules, and is concerned with defence procurement and the UK Reserve Forces, particularly the Territorial Army.\n\nThe long title of an Act (see the infobox opposite) is of significance because it forms part of the Act, and is the 'first of the elements of an Act ... that can be used to find the meaning of the Act, and generally its scope.' in future legal decisions.\n\nThe Bill extends to the whole of the United Kingdom. Amendments to, and repeals of, other legislation made by Part 3 have the same extent as the provisions amended or repealed. Amendments made by this Act to the Reserve Forces Act 1980, the Reserve Forces Act 1996 and the Armed Forces Act 2006 can be extended to the Channel Islands and/or the Isle of Man by provisions that already exist in those Acts.\n\nThe Queen's Speech on the opening of the 2013-14 session of Parliament included a reference to 'Measures...to improve the way this country procures defence equipment, as well as strengthening the Reserve Forces.' In the background note to the speech, the Government said The Bill would enable the Ministry of Defence (MoD) to fundamentally change the way it procures and supports defence equipment by reforming the Defence Equipment and Support (DE&S) organisation and strengthening the arrangements for single source (non-competitive) procurement. The Bill would increase the size and role of our Reserve Forces.\n\nA White Paper, \"Better Defence Acquisition\" covering the procurement provisions referred to in the speech was published in June 2013. Chapter 1 of the paper addresses procurement carried out by the MOD's 'Defence Equipment and Support' (DE&S)function, and identifies three long standing significant problems (\"Root causes\") within procurement which the Government believes has contributed to poor performance:\n\n\nThe paper argued that the first two of these problems had been solved, by balancing the MOD's overall budget, but that if the overheated equipment programme was not to return, fundamental change would be required. The paper suggested two solutions. The first, preferred, proposal, would be the establishment of a 'Government-Owned, Contractor Operated' (GOCO) model for defence procurement, whereby a private sector consortium would effectively act as the MOD's procurement agent - requirements would still be specified and decided upon by the Department, but the procurement itself would be managed and delivered by the private sector. The second option, \"DE&S Plus\" (consisting of negotiating with the Treasury for increased management freedom for DE&S but keeping its staff in the public sector, was discussed, but only in terms of 'the public sector benchmark against which the GOCO option will ultimately be judged', rather than a proposal given equal weighting with the GOCO option.\n\nThe second chapter of the paper addressed 'single source procurement' - that is, 'procurement of equipmentand support...where the MOD is unable to source its requirements through open competition'. The proposal, which closely follows the recommendations of a report by Lord Currie\nwhich was published in 2011) was to create what would effectively be a regulatory body called the 'Single Source Regulations Office', (SSRO) to manage single-source procurement. The SSRO would replace the existing regulator, the 'Review Board for Government Contracts'.\n\nThe Act has four parts:\n\nThis Part has 12 sections, and invokes schedule 1 (by section 4) schedule 2 (by section 7) and schedule 3 (by section 10). \n\nThis Part comprises the majority of the Act in terms of number of sections and clauses: it consists of section 13-43. Schedule 4 is invoked by section 13, and schedule 5 by section 38. \n\nThis part contains 5 sections 44-47. Schedule 6 is invoked by section 45 and schedule 7 by section 46.\n\nThis Part contains sections 48-51, but has no actual provisions, and only contains sections that relate to the short title of the Act, procedures for commencement, and the Act's territorial extent.\n\nThe Act had its first reading in the House of Commons on 3 July 2013. Its backers were the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, Treasury Chief Secretary Danny Alexander, Business Secretary Vince Cable, Justice Secretary Chris Grayling, Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude, Dominic Grieve and the Bill Minister, Minister for Defence Equipment and Support, Philip Dunne.\n\nCommons Second Reading took place on 16 July 2013. \n\nAfter the debate, formal motions covering the programme resolution and the money resolutions for the Bill were also passed.\n\nSubsequent Parliamentary stages were as follows: \n\nThe Bill returned to the House of Commons on 29 April 2014, where a programme motion was passed, and Commons Consideration of Lords' Amendments took place. \n\nThe Bill was given Royal Assent (and thus became an Act) on 14 May 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "34200915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34200915", "title": "Easytrade", "text": "Easytrade\n\nEasyTrade (NemHandel in Danish) is a Danish e-invoicing infrastructure, developed by the National IT and Telecom Agency and launched in 2007. EasyTrade is based on open standards (including the Universal Business Language, Reliable Asynchronous Secure Profile (RASP), and UDDI), open source components, and digital certificates. It was launched as part of a Danish Government Globalisation initiative in 2005 under the auspices of Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen.\n\nThe public sector in Denmark receives more than 15 million electronic invoices every year from approximately 150,000 suppliers. Non-electronic invoices for a public sector institution will be rejected. There are more than 30,000 public sector e-invoicing end points. An end point can be everything from a municipality to a kindergarten or even a department within a public sector institution. End points are addressed via Global Location Numbers or via Company Registration Numbers (called CVR-numbers in Denmark).\n\nEasytrade was mandated by law in February 2005. The initial version was based on traditional Electronic data interchange (EDI) methods in combination with an early version of Universal Business Language.\nThe current version of Easytrade was launched in 2007 and is based on modern internet technologies.\n\nEasytrade is an example of the 4-Corner Model for interoperability between service providers. This model is best known from the telephony industry where Telco-operators interoperate by roaming traffic between each other. The advantage of this model is that any party in a transaction can switch provider seamlessly without having to notify the other parties with whom they exchange business documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "5575410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5575410", "title": "Emancipation", "text": "Emancipation\n\nEmancipation is any effort to procure economic and social rights, political rights or equality, often for a specifically disenfranchised group, or more generally, in discussion of such matters. Emancipation stems from \"ēx manus capere\" ('detach from the hand').\nAmong others, Karl Marx discussed political emancipation in his 1844 essay \"On the Jewish Question\", although often in addition to (or in contrast with) the term \"human emancipation\". Marx's views of political emancipation in this work were summarized by one writer as entailing \"equal status of individual citizens in relation to the state, equality before the law, regardless of religion, property, or other 'private' characteristics of individual people.\"\n\n\"Political emancipation\" as a phrase is less common in modern usage, especially outside academic, foreign or activist contexts. However, similar concepts may be referred to by other terms. For instance, in the United States the Civil Rights Movement culminated in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968 can be seen as further realization of events such as the Emancipation Proclamation and abolition of slavery a century earlier. In the current and former British West Indies islands the holiday Emancipation Day is celebrated to mark the end of the Atlantic slave trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1326222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326222", "title": "Emgann", "text": "Emgann\n\nEmgann is a left wing Breton nationalist movement in Brittany, France. Founded in 1982, it soon became one of the principal groups agitating for Breton independence. They describe themselves as a \"Left wing independentist movement\" which \"fights for the emancipation and the national liberation of the Breton people and their direct representation in European authorities\".\n\nEmgann emerges from the third Emsav, the revival of Breton nationalism as a leftist movement after the 1960s. It describes itself as anti-capitalist and anti-racist movement. It was formed in 1983 by radical militants within the Breton independence movement after the sudden shift in French politics caused by the 1981 election of a leftist government. Shortly after it was elected, the Mitterrand government granted an amnesty to the nineteen Breton militants still in prison at the time, removing one of the political demands of Breton nationalists. Between their release and the establishment of a left wing government in Paris, leftist nationalism began to dwindle in Brittany, and Emgann was established in large part in response to this change in the political climate.\n\nEmgann's 1988 manifesto also emphasises the importance of solidarity with other national liberation movements, citing Basque nationalists as an example.\n\nOne of Emgann's particularities is its refusal of all contact with established French political parties, and its atypical pattern of recruitment. At the end of the 1990s, it was largely absent from the universities - the traditional recruiting ground of French radical political movements - but instead tended to recruit new members in urban areas, especially among the young unemployed and under-employed. As a result, the movement's militancy tends to be proportionate to the weakness of the local economy.\n\nIn 1995, Emgann organised a celebration of the Breton nation called \"Devezh Ar Vro\". The movement also publishes a journal called \"Combat Breton\", currently edited by Yann Puillandre.\n\nEmgann's leaders are adamant that \"Emgann is not the legal mouthpeice of the ARB\" (\"Armée Révolutionnaire Bretonne\" - Breton Revolutionary Army). The ARB is the armed branch of the \"Front de Libération de la Bretagne\" (\"Breton Liberation Front\") - a banned organisation that French law considers to be a terrorist group. Despite Emgann's denials of any formal link between the two organisations, its official statements call the ARB a \"patriotic resistance organisation\" and their journal \"Combat Breton\" publishes the ARB's press releases. \n\nEmgann clams that it does not approve of the violent actions of the ARB, but it doesn't disapprove either, treating them instead as \"a logical consequence of the colonialist French state and the desperation of young Bretons.\" However, several members of Emgann were arrested and convicted by French courts as accomplices in the theft of several tonnes of explosives from a Breton company in Plévin (Côtes-d'Armor) in 1999. This theft was followed by a series of bombings attributed to the ARB, including a fatal explosion at a McDonald's in Quévert (Côtes-d'Armor). Ultimately, a former spokesman for Emgann was cleared of conspiracy to commit terrorist acts for the bombings in Quévert and elsewhere. However, since many of the accused were held in provisional detention for several years before their trials, many were released, having been imprisoned for longer than the time they were sentenced to before their trials even started. One has appealed his conviction to the European Court of Human Rights. These lengthy delays and other claimed irregularities in the trial have led to their condemnation by Emgann as a \"travesty\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24107773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24107773", "title": "Felix Ermacora Human Rights Award", "text": "Felix Ermacora Human Rights Award\n\nThe Felix Ermacora Human Rights Award () is an Austrian human rights award. It was established in 2005 by the Austrian People's Party, and is awarded each year by the \"Felix Ermacora Verein – Verein zur Wahrung und Förderung der Menschenrechte\". There are two awards, one of them is awarded to journalists.\n\nThe award is named after Felix Ermacora, Austria's leading human rights expert of the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3687242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687242", "title": "Gianfranco Sanguinetti", "text": "Gianfranco Sanguinetti\n\nGianfranco Sanguinetti (born July 16, 1948, Pully, Switzerland), was a writer and member of the Situationist International (SI), a political art movement. He is Teresa Mattei's son.\n\nSanguinetti was deported from France in 1971 and settled in Italy.\n\nBy 1972, Sanguinetti and Guy Debord were the only two remaining members of the SI. Together they wrote \"The Veritable Split In The International\" a book detailing the rise and fall of the SI.\n\nAgain working with Debord, in August 1975, Sanguinetti wrote a pamphlet titled \"Rapporto veridico sulle ultima opportunita di salvare il capitalismo in Italia\" (Eng: \"The Real Report on the Last Chance to Save Capitalism in Italy\"), which (inspired by Niccolò Machiavelli and Bruno Bauer) purported to be the cynical writing of \"Censor\", a powerful industrialist. The pamphlet was to show how the ruling class of Italy supported the Piazza Fontana bombing and other covert, false flag mass slaughter, for the higher goal of defending the capitalist status quo from the communist claims. The pamphlet was mailed to 520 of Italy's most powerful individuals. It was received as genuine, and powerful politicians, industrialists and journalist praised its content and guessed on the identity of its high-profile author. After reprinting the tract into a small book, Sanguinetti revealed himself to be the true author. Scandal raised after the revelation, as it successfully exposed the truth and hypocrisy on the mass slaughters, and under pressure from Italian authorities, Sanguinetti left Italy in February 1976, and was denied entry to France.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "56841519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56841519", "title": "Haryana Forestry scam case", "text": "Haryana Forestry scam case\n\nHaryana Forestry scam case is a multi-crore fake plantation scam allegedly involving Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kiran Chaudhary and others where government money was embezzled. In 2009, this scam was exposed by the whistleblower, Sanjiv Chaturvedi,Ramon Magsaysay Award-winner Indian Forest Service officer with then Government of Haryana, who filed a case in September 2012 to seek Supreme Court's instructions to CBI to investigate the case. Earlier, Haryana Government had suspended him in 2007 for acting against illegal felling of trees and poaching in Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary, but his suspension was revoked by the President in 2008 and the chargesheet was overturned in 2011 on an appeal against the decision of Haryana government. An inquiry committee of the Ministry of Environment & Forest (MoEF) found Chaturvedi's allegations against Haryana government true, preferred an inquiry by Central Vigilance Commission and by CBI into dubious role of certain highly-placed politicians and civil servants. CBI, in its reply to CVC, found Chaturvedi's allegations against then Haryana Government creditable enough for an independent inquiry. As per the rules, CBI can not undertake suo motu investigation, only state government, high court or supreme court can ask CBI for it.\n\nThere are a total of 6 CBI cases and several other vigilance department investigations against Hooda underway. Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating several scams, mostly related to illegal land grab, that took place during his rule in Haryana. These investigations include the Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam, Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam, Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab scam, Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case, Garhi Sampla Uddar Gagan land scam, Panchkula-HUDA Industrial plots allotment scam, AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam and Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam. He has been already chargesheeted in the Manesar-Gurugram land scam, while other cases are still under investigation (c. March 2018).\n\nWhile posted at Fatehbad, the Forests officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi accused the Congress MLA Prahlad Singh Gillakhera of corruption in a herbal park establishment project. He alleged that Gillakhera's relatives were buying rare trees for their personal gardens with the taxpayers' money.\n\nSoon after his suspension, the Haryana Forest Department had started prosecution against the contractors, based on earlier reports filed by him. However, after the NGO Ekta Parishad moved against the accused in the Supreme Court in April 2008, the Hooda Government protected the violators.\n\nHaryana government rejected MoEF's request in 2012 to initiate a CBI inquiry against the forestry scam. Instead Haryana Government issued another charge sheet against Chaturvedi in August 2012, which too was overturned by the President of India. Haryana administration filed a counter case in the High Court to seek cancellation of the presidential order favoring Chaturvedi and also against the formation of MoEF's earlier inquiry committee on this scam on the basis of ultra vires (beyond the powers of President and MoEF). Chaturvedi filed a case in the Supreme Court in September 2012 asking for the CBI inquiry against this scam, where it is still pending (c. March 2018).\n\nWhistle blower, Sanjiv Chaturvedi, harassed by the then UPA administration in several ways, which forced him to move the Uttarakhand High Court, and involve Prime Minister;s office.\n\nThe case is currently in the Supreme Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "4722002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722002", "title": "History of the Green Party of Canada", "text": "History of the Green Party of Canada\n\nThe Green Party of Canada was founded at a conference held at Carleton University in Ottawa in 1983. Under its first leader, Dr. Trevor Hancock, the party ran 60 candidates in the 1984 Canadian federal election. The BC Greens ran Canada's first Green candidate. Later that year, the founding conference of the Canadian Greens was held at Carleton University in Ottawa, Ontario. Close to 200 people from 55 communities attended, coming from every province except Newfoundland and Labrador and Prince Edward Island.\n\nThe birthing process was difficult, with deep divisions between those arguing for a national structure, and those in favour of a process that would build from the regions following the bioregional democracy structure.\n\nTrevor Hancock was the party's first registered leader. Party members chose a radically decentralized party structure, and for several years a kind of green anarchism prevailed. Eventually, an uneasy agreement was reached for a federation of regional parties, with strong support for building upwards from the bottom. The question arose: \"Is the priority to redefine politics from the ground up, or to play the electoral game according to the present rules? Or both?\"\n\nMany members saw the party as a way to protest Canada's political system, and not much more. Nonetheless it did run candidates.\n\nThe Green Party of Canada was registered in 1983 by Paul George, Ted Mousseau, William Marshall, Ed McDonough and Seymour Trieger in June - just preceding a byelection in Mission-Port Moody during which Betty Nickerson ran as a Green Party of Canada candidate. The party had not gained official status at that point so the party name did not appear on the ballot - though it did on all her communications. The first convention in Ontario later that fall elected the next set of party officers. The Green Party of Canada contested its first federal election in September 1984. Approximately 27,000 Canadians voted Green (0.2% of the votes cast). But ongoing discussions about the party's \"modus operandi\" became so exhausting that, at one point in the mid-1980s, there was a near collapse of the party. It survived — though not particularly active — for almost a decade under the stewardship of the BC Greens.\n\nIn the 1988 federal election, Greens concentrated on Quebec, where \"le Parti Vert\" (not the same as the current Parti Vert du Québec) ran 29 candidates, up from just 4 in the previous election. \"Les Verts\" received higher results than Green candidates anywhere else in Canada, polling an average of 2.4% of the vote. The Quebec wing hosted the 1990 Canadian Greens conference in Montreal. But soon after that, Canada's constitutional problems interfered, and many Quebec candidates abandoned the Greens in favour of a Quebec sovereigntist party, the Bloc Québécois. There were only six Green candidates from Quebec in the 1993 election.\n\nIn the summer of 1988, the BC Greens, under the \"de facto\" leadership of electoral-reform activist Steve Kisby, tried to get the Green Party of Canada onto its feet by hosting a conference — the first federal gathering since the founding meeting in 1983. The main accomplishment of that conference was the acceptance, after five years as a registered party, of a constitution. The party continued to field candidates at the federal level, and provincial parties were organized in a few other provinces, led by consistently strong efforts in British Columbia.\n\nIn 1988, however, despite minimal on-the-ground organization, Quebec produced the lion's share of Green candidates and votes thanks to the efforts of Quebec organizer and candidate Rolf Bramann. A year later, the provincial Greens in Quebec scored 2% of the popular vote, averaging 5% in the constituencies in which they ran under the leadership of Jean Ouimet. Montreal's municipal Ecology Party also scored very well in elections in this period under the leadership of publisher Dimitrios Roussopoulos.\n\nOuimet, a strong sovereigntist, maintained a party wholly independent of the federal Greens during his leadership; as a result Bramann created an organization called the Green Party of Canada in Quebec, a predominantly Anglophone entity that nominated federal candidates only. There was open antipathy between Ouimet and Bramann. Neither was affiliated with Écologie-Montreal.\n\nAt the same time as the Parti Vert began to collapse due to Ouimet's defection to the PQ in 1992, Bramann was removed from his position in the federal party due to anti-Semitic comments he and some of his candidates had made. This led to a precipitous decline in all Green Party organizations in Quebec despite a very promising start a mere four years previous.\n\nFrom 1988 onwards, a pattern developed whereby the federal party tended to function alternately as an appendage of the BC and Ontario provincial parties. Lacking sufficient funding and an administrative base of its own, control of the federal Greens was sometimes a prize (when the provincial affiliate and its leader wanted to demonstrate its success), and at others, a burden (when the provincial affiliate was forced to invest significant volunteer energy or money for its maintenance) for the Greens in BC and Ontario. Successful candidates for the positions of Leader and Chief Financial Officer were typically personal associates of either the BC or Ontario party's \"de facto\" or \"de jure\" leader, for whom the leader publicly mobilized and delivered votes.\n\nIn the spring of 1996, although the hopes of electing a representative to the BC legislature proved premature, Andy Shadrack in the interior of the province received over 11% of the vote. Overall, the party's proportion of the popular vote surged to a new high. Shadrack was also the most popular Green candidate in the 1997 federal election, scoring over 6% of the popular vote in West Kootenay-Okanagan.\n\nAt the party's sixth annual gathering in Castlegar, British Columbia, hosted by Shadrack's riding association, in August 1996, a complete overhaul of the party's constitution was made, spearheaded by Stuart Parker, leader of the provincial Greens in BC. The party's new constitutional framework both democratized and centralized the party which had been previously hobbled by an unworkably decentralized structure. These changes also ended de jure (it had ended de facto some three years earlier) the constitutional prohibition against the party's registered leader acting as its spokesperson or representative. Policy was also agreed to in a wide variety of areas. An important step forward was the structuring of a Shadow Cabinet, whose mandate was to create a platform for the next election in 1997.\n\nThe Castlegar gathering marked the beginning of a new era in Canadian Green history, and a somewhat uneasy one at that. In spite of a concern about the nature of leadership in a decentralized party, the Greens' first leadership campaign had been underway for the previous six months. Four candidates contested the leadership. A mail-in ballot was held: Wendy Priesnitz (from Ontario) beat Don Francis (Quebec), Jason Crummey (Newfoundland and Labrador), and Harry Garfinkle (Alberta) to become the Registered Leader of the Green Party of Canada.\n\nIn January 1997, although initially recruited by Ontario Green Party leader Frank de Jong, Wendy Priesnitz resigned over what she characterized as domination of the party by an \"old boys' network\" comprising the BC and Ontario provincial leaders and their male-dominated circles of organizers and advisors. Harry Garfinkle stepped in to be the interim Registered Leader of the Green Party of Canada, and a leadership convention by mail-in ballot was held.\n\nBritish Columbia's Joan Russow became leader of the Green Party of Canada on April 13, 1997. Russow won 52% of the ballots cast in the 1997 leadership race, surpassing Ontario's Jim Harris (39%) and Rachelle Small (8%). Immediately upon attaining the leadership, Russow was plunged into a federal general election. Russow's campaign in 1997 set a number of important precedents. The 1997 election was the first campaign in which the Greens conducted a national leader's tour, presented a national platform and a bilingual campaign (Russow is trilingual, speaking Spanish, French and English). Previous campaigns, due in part to the party's few resources and, in part, to the party's constitutional straitjacket, had been characterized by policy and spokespeople operating, at best, province-by-province and, at worst, riding-by-riding. In her own riding of Victoria, Russow received just shy of 3000 votes and 6% of the popular vote.\n\nIn the 2000 election, the party nominated 111 candidates, in nine out of ten provinces — all but Newfoundland and Labrador — and in one of three territories (Nunavut). These candidates collected 0.81% of the total popular vote.\n\nCandidates were not run in Newfoundland and Labrador, as a result of ongoing divisions over Joan Russow's refusal to endorse the Green candidate in an earlier St. John's West by-election. (The candidate in question supported the seal hunt and mining development, as most locals did.) This caused much uncertainty and friction between Newfoundland's Terra Nova Green Party Association and the Green Party leader as the party gradually adapted to the realities of functioning as a true national party rather than a disorganized federation of local activists.\n\nIn the 2001 Quebec City protest against the Free Trade Area of the Americas, Russow was the first person incarcerated in a jail built specially for protesters, for taking a photograph of it from outside. Russow promoted the Green Party as a leader in the anti-globalization movement, in particular the anti-corporatist and pro-peace movement, but felt undermined when the German Greens supported the bombing of Belgrade. As other members of her party had supported military intervention, Russow's leadership was called into question. She stepped down as party leader in 2001 and left the party to join the New Democratic Party (NDP). Because the NDP's federal and provincial wings are integrated, this also entailed joining the New Democratic Party of British Columbia.\n\nAnother factor in her resignation may have been ongoing conflicts within the party provincially and municipally in her home city of Victoria, where she had switched allegiance from the Parker faction to the Adriane Carr faction. Her late conversion left her on unsure footing with the powerful new provincial leader and in public conflict with City Councilor Art Vanden Berg and other members of the Parker-affiliated team that had backed her leadership during the 1997 and 1998 leadership contests.\n\nThe conflicts left Russow isolated and alienated from most members of the party. Volunteer efforts were substantially absorbed in provincial campaigns between 2001 and 2003, and the federal party became dormant between elections, as was typical in the past. Chris Bradshaw served the party as interim leader from 2001 to February 2003.\n\nIn February 2003, Jim Harris, in his second bid for the leadership, defeated John Grogan of Valemount, British Columbia, and Jason Crummey. Crummey was originally from Newfoundland and involved with Newfoundland and Labrador Terra Nova Greens. Harris, an author and public speaker, and GPC member since 1987 (though not active in several previous elections), had the support of all provincial Green Party leaders, breaking 15 years of precedent of the BC leader backing a BC candidate from their own political circle. His election was taken by many as reflecting a desire among the members to \"become serious\" in achieving electoral progress, and to steer away from any explicit anti-political ideas. However, his campaign also included a hard line against Red-Green (i.e., alliances with NDP members and organized labour) coalitions that Russow had supported at the municipal level in Victoria. While adopting the rhetoric of pragmatism, some argue, Harris eschewed the only strategy that has ever elected Greens under the first-past-the-post system. Harris announced on April 24, 2006, that he would stand down as leader at the party's convention in August.\n\nThe Green Party ran a fundraising campaign in 2003 to realize Harris' goal of running a full slate in the upcoming election. This party also had to borrow hundreds of thousands of dollars against the $1.75/vote expected to accrue to the party after the election. The party began organizing in all provinces with paid staff.\n\nIn the 2004 election, the party received a significant increase in media coverage on the strength of its 308 candidates, the platform, and a national leaders' tour. The party began to be included in almost all national political polls. Its popular support peaked at 7% during the campaign, and the party finished with 4.3% of the vote. The party's strongest candidate, Andrew Lewis in the riding of Saanich—Gulf Islands, won over 10,000 votes, the first Green Party candidate to do so. Lewis still finished fourth in the riding, however.\n\nIn August 2004 at the national convention near Calgary, Alberta, Jim Harris was re-elected, with a reduced majority of only 56%. Rival Tom Manley polled nearly 37%.\n\nMost conference debate centred on significant constitutional reform proposals, and the role of membership in ruling on matters of policy and the constitution. The conference ended with a re-affirmation of a hybrid that was developed during the campaign: a centralized executive with decentralized policy and constitutional development.\n\nPoliticians from different political backgrounds have expressed interest in the party. Former Deputy Prime Minister Sheila Copps on March 2, 2005, spoke publicly to a group of Greens in Toronto, advising the party on its electoral strategy. Former Progressive Conservative leadership candidate David Orchard not only attended but met with members of the GPC Council; however, Orchard's involvement with the Greens dates back to the mid-1990s when he worked with Russow on a variety of trade and international issues. (Ontario leader Frank de Jong and BC leader Stuart Parker were featured speakers at pro-Orchard rallies early in his first bid for the Tory leadership in 1998.) It was also rumoured in the media in 2004 that David Anderson, the former Minister of the Environment in Chrétien's government, was considering joining the party. Anderson, however, successfully ran for re-election as a Liberal.\n\nNone of the party's candidates were elected, but the party received 4.5% of the vote nationally (up from 4.3% in 2004) and 665,940 votes (an increase of about 80,000 votes from 2004). Its best performance was in Alberta, where it received 6.6%. Sean Maw won 10.84% of the vote in Wild Rose and finished a very distant second to Conservative Myron Thompson. Shane Jolley won 12.9% of the vote in Bruce—Grey—Owen Sound riding, the largest share of the vote won by any of its candidates. In the riding Ottawa Centre, the Green candidate David Chernushenko received 6,766 votes, the largest number of votes of any of the party's candidates. It had been hoped by Greens that the party's deputy leader, Andrew Lewis, would achieve a breakthrough in Saanich—Gulf Islands where he won 16.7% of the vote in the 2004 election and carried 17 of 238 polling divisions, making Lewis the first Green candidate to win even one polling division. However, running again in Saanich—Gulf Islands in 2006 he lost one-third of his 2004 vote share, winning only 9.6% of the ballots cast.\n\nThe party's 2006 election campaign was disrupted by allegations made by Matthew Pollesell, the party's former assistant national organizer, that Harris had not filed a proper accounting of money spent during his 2004 leadership campaign, as required by law. Pollesell issued a request that Elections Canada investigate. Pollesell and another former party member, Gretchen Schwarz, were subsequently warned by the party's legal counsel to retract allegations they had made or face a possible legal action. Dana Miller, who served in the party's shadow cabinet with responsibility for human-rights issues, made public her earlier complaints that the party has violated election law and its own constitution and has also asked for an Elections Canada investigation. Miller was expelled from the party after filing a complaint within the party in April.\n\nElizabeth May was elected leader of the Green Party of Canada in August 2006. She ran in the November 27, 2006 London North Centre by-election, finishing second with 26% of the votes. It was the Green Party's best-ever result in a federal election, easily eclipsing the previous mark of 16.7% achieved in 2004 in the B.C. riding of Saanich-Gulf Islands.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, the Green Party's vote was up again to 6.8% and 937,613 votes. On August 30, the former Liberal MP Blair Wilson announces he is joining the Green Party of Canada, becoming the party's first MP and He was defeated in the 2008 federal election, which was called before he had a chance to officially sit in the House of Commons as a Green MP. The best showing was in Elizabeth May's riding of Central Nova where May captured 32.2% of the vote against Conservative cabinet minister Peter MacKay. Part of the reason for May's strong showing is that she brokered a deal with Liberal leader Stéphane Dion in which he agreed not to run a Liberal candidate. In return, May agreed not to run a candidate in Dion's riding.\n\nBoth for the first time, the leader Elizabeth May became the first Member of Parliament elected to represent the party. She defeated Conservative Incumbent and cabinet minister Gary Lunn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "884065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884065", "title": "Hostosian National Congress", "text": "Hostosian National Congress\n\nThe National Hostosian Congress (, CNH) was a small left-wing and pro-independence organization in Puerto Rico. Led by Héctor L. Pesquera, many of its members were formerly involved in the Puerto Rican Socialist Party. In 2004, the CNH joined with the New Puerto Rican Independence Movement to form the Hostosian National Independence Movement (MINH).\n\n"}
{"id": "30874203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874203", "title": "Interim Government of Iran", "text": "Interim Government of Iran\n\nThe Interim Government of Iran () was the first government established in Iran after the Iranian Revolution, and the first nominal republic established in Iran after 2,500 years of Persian monarchy. The regime was headed by Mehdi Bazargan, one of the members of the Freedom Movement of Iran, and formed on the order of Ruhollah Khomeini (known as the Ayatollah Khomeini) on 4 February 1979. From 4 February to 11 February, Bazargan and Shapour Bakhtiar, the Shah's last Prime Minister, both claimed to be the legitimate prime minister; Bakhtiar fled on 11 February. Mehdi Bazargan was the prime minister of the interim government and introduced a seven-member cabinet on 14 February 1979. Ebrahim Yazdi was elected as the Foreign Minister.\n\nThe constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran was adopted by referendum on 24 October 1979. Before it could come into force on 3 December 1979, however, the government resigned on 6 November soon after the taking over of the American embassy, an act the government opposed but revolutionary leader Khomeini supported. The Council of the Islamic Revolution then served as the country's government until the formation of the first Islamic Consultative Assembly on 12 August 1980. Bazargan was elected to the first Islamic Consultative Assembly representing Tehran.\n\nWhen Ayatollah Khomeini, the leader of the Iranian revolution, came back to Iran after his 15-year exile, he appointed Mehdi Bazargan as the head of the interim government. On 4 February 1979, Ruhollah Khomeini issued a decree appointing Bazargan as the prime minister of \"The Provisional Islamic Revolutionary Government\".\n\nHis decree stated:\n\nElaborating further on his decree, Khomeini made it clear that Iranians were commanded to obey Bazargan and that this was a religious duty.\n\nAs a man who, though the guardianship [\"Velayat\"] that I have from the holy lawgiver [the Prophet], I hereby pronounce Bazargan as the Ruler, and since I have appointed him, he must be obeyed. The nation must obey him. This is not an ordinary government. It is a government based on the \"sharia\". Opposing this government means opposing the \"sharia\" of Islam ... Revolt against God's government is a revolt against God. Revolt against God is blasphemy.\n\nKhomeini's announcement came days before the army's official statement announcing the army's (Bakhtiar's last hope) neutrality in conflicts between Khomeini's and Bakhtiar's supporters. Bakhtiar fled on the same day, 11 February, the day that is officially named as \"Islamic Revolution's Victory Day\".\n\nThe PRG is often described as \"subordinate\" to the Revolutionary Council, and having had difficulties reigning in the numerous committees which were competing with its authority.\n\nAccording to Mohammad Ataie, the cabinet was made up of two main factions, moderates and radicals. Most of cabinet members were nationalist veterans from the Freedom Movement of Iran and the National Front.\n\nBazargan reshuffled his cabinet several times because of resignation of ministers that were unable to cope with parallel sources of power. In several cases a ministry was supervised by an acting minister or Bazargan himself.\n\nList of members of Bazargan's cabinet was as follows:\n\nThe Prime Minister and all members of his cabinet resigned en masse on 6 November 1979 after American Embassy officials were taken hostage two days earlier on 4 November 1979. In his letter to Khomeini, Bazargan stated that \"...repeated interferences, inconveniences, objections and disputes have made my colleagues and me unable to continue [meeting] our duties ...\".\n\nPower then passed into the hands of the Revolutionary Council. Bazargan had been a supporter of the original revolutionary draft constitution rather than theocracy by Islamic jurist, and his resignation was received by Khomeini without protest, saying \"Mr. Bazargan ... was a little tired and preferred to stay on the sidelines for a while.\" Khomeini later described his appointment of Bazargan as a \"mistake\". Bazargan, on the other hand, described the government as a \"knife without blade.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3098399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3098399", "title": "Isle of Flowers", "text": "Isle of Flowers\n\nIsle of Flowers () is a 1989 Brazilian short film by Jorge Furtado. It tracks the path of a tomato from grower to the child who collects it as food from a dump with the help of voiceover and a collection of illustrative images. The director stated the film was inspired by the works of Kurt Vonnegut and Alain Resnais, among others.\n\nThe film has been denounced as \"materialistic\" because one of its early credits displays the phrase \"God doesn't exist\". Nevertheless, critic Jean-Claude Bernardet defined \"Isle of Flowers\" \"a religious film\", and the Brazilian National Bishop Confederation awarded the film with the Margarida de Prata (Silver Daisy), calling it \"the best Brazilian film of the year\" in 1990. In 1995, \"Isle of Flowers\" was chosen by the European critics as one of the 100 most important short films of the century.\n\nA constant and verbose off-narrator guides the viewer through the life of a tomato. Beginning at Mr Suzuki's tomato field, the tomato is then sold to a supermarket, where it is acquired by Mrs Anete, a perfume salesperson, together with some pork. Each exchange requires the presence of money, which is, together with the tomato, the constant element in the story.\nMrs Anete intends to prepare a tomato sauce for the pork, but, having considered one of Mr Suzuki's tomatoes inadequate, she throws it in the garbage. Together with the rest of the garbage, the tomato is taken to Isle of Flowers (Ilha das Flores), Porto Alegre's landfill. There, the organic material considered adequate is selected as food for pigs. The rest, which is considered inadequate for the pigs, is given to poor women and children to eat.\n\n\nThe scene of the perfume factory was actually shot in a high school laboratory (Colégio Anchieta).\n\nSince its release, \"Isle of Flowers\" has become one of the most acclaimed pseudo-documentary short films of all time. For a number of years, users of the Internet Movie Database voted it the best Brazilian short film and documentary film ever made.\n\n\"Isle of Flowers\" was very well received by film festivals all over the world when first released. It won a Silver Bear for Best Short Feature at the 1990 Berlin Film Festival as well as nine awards at the 1989 Gramado Film Festival, including for Best Short Film.\n\n"}
{"id": "19736583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19736583", "title": "Justice for the Elderly", "text": "Justice for the Elderly\n\nJustice for the Elderly (, \"Tzedek LaZaken\") was a political faction in Israel between June and October 2008. It was led by Moshe Sharoni, and had three seats.\n\nThe faction was established on 2 June 2008 when three MKs from Gil (Moshe Sharoni, Elhanan Glazer and Sarah Marom) left the party. Glazer had initially decided not to quit Gil after being promised a Deputy Ministerial post (a decision which Sharoni claimed he would sue Glazer for NIS 2 million for), but eventually changed his mind again and left the party.\n\nThe faction was initially planned to be associated with the Social Justice party, with three MKs promised places in the top five on the Social Justice list in the next elections and Sharoni a senior cabinet post, as well as funding amounting to tens of thousands of shekels a month. Gil MK Yitzhak Galanti stated that the \"move could result in Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah or Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad also 'buying' a Knesset faction to represent their views\". However, the agreement was later cancelled. \n\nOn 15 October 2008 Sharoni announced that the faction was to merge back into Gil. The merger went ahead on 27 October, although Elhanan Glazer broke away to establish another new faction, The Right Way.\n\n"}
{"id": "23185952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23185952", "title": "Kampfgruppe gegen Unmenschlichkeit", "text": "Kampfgruppe gegen Unmenschlichkeit\n\nThe Kampfgruppe gegen Unmenschlichkeit (KgU) (German for \"Combat Group against Inhumanity\") was a German anti-communist resistance group based in West Berlin. It was founded in 1948 by Rainer Hildebrandt, Günther Birkenfeld and Ernst Benda and existed until 1959. Rainer Hildebrandt would a few years later establish the legendary Checkpoint Charlie Museum.\n\nThe KgU received significant financial support from several Western intelligence agencies as well as the government of West Germany and the Ford Foundation. The US Army's Counterintelligence Corps (CIC) provided funding from the group's creation in the late 1940s. By the early 1950s, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) gradually replaced the CIC as the KgU's most prominent American backer. According to CIA documents, the KgU ran approximately 500 agents in East Germany in the early 1950s, which, according to historian Enrico Heitzer, put it on par with the Gehlen Organization, the predecessor to the West German intelligence service Bundesnachrichtendienst. \n\nThe KgU's activities included sabotage, arson and poison attacks as well as aggressive economic warfare which intended to cause a \"breakdown in the whole [East German] administrative system\", such as Operation \"Osterhase\" (\"Easter Bunny\"), in which the group sent 150,000 fake letters to East German stores, ordering drastic price cuts in order to cause a run on already scarce consumer goods. Other activities included collecting data on individuals imprisoned in East Germany and passing it on to their relatives, as well as collecting names of informers to the East German government and passing it on to RIAS, which would then broadcast so-called \"snitch reports\" in order to silence informers and discourage others from engaging in similar activities.\n\nThe KgU also aided the CIA in building up a so-called stay-behind network to be used in the event of a hypothetical Soviet invasion. Infiltration of the KgU by Stasi operatives and the arrest of several of its agents in East Germany eventually caused the group to dissolve in 1959, with many of its records going to the CIA. \n\nAlthough some KgU members, such as Rainer Hildebrandt and Ernst Tillich, had served time in prison during the Third Reich for anti-Nazi activities, historian Enrico Heitzer points out that the group also used numerous activists with a Nazi past, of which many hadn't changed their political views.\n"}
{"id": "2383375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2383375", "title": "Liberal Laboratory (Norway)", "text": "Liberal Laboratory (Norway)\n\nLibLab (short for \"Liberalt Laboratorium\" - Liberal Laboratory) was a Norwegian liberal think-tank. The organization was founded in 2005, and was led by chairman Martin E. Sandbu, and vice-chairman Gard Lindseth. It ended its activities in 2011. \n\nTheir stated goals were to promote a more long-term oriented and value-based political debate in Norway, as well as to promote social liberal values.\n\nFrom the Liberal Laboratory Foundation’s statutes:\n\nLiberal Laboratory Foundation is a think tank, founded on the firm belief that ideas, principles and social visions are among the strongest forces in a society’s development. Liberal Laboratory has two aims:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54209472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54209472", "title": "Mak Hoi-wah", "text": "Mak Hoi-wah\n\nMak Hoi-wah (; born 9 April 1951) is a Hong Kong politician, social worker and social activist. He was the member of the Wong Tai Sin District Board and former vice-chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China. He is also a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nMak was born in China in 1951. He was educated at the University of Hong Kong. During his student life, he and other liberal-minded students formed a cabinet to run against the \"nationalist\" faction which was dominated the Hong Kong University Students' Union along with Albert Ho in 1974. He graduated in 1976 with a Bachelor of Arts, majoring in Philosophy and Political Science. He furthered his study in Social Work at the university and graduated with a master degree in 1978. In 1994 Mak received a Postgraduate Certificate in Laws from the City University of Hong Kong. In 1988, he became a lecturer at the Department of Applied Social Studies of the City University of Hong Kong. He had also been Council member of the City University of Hong Kong.\n\nMak was also involved in social activism in grassroots level during and after his student life. In 1975 he joined the Society for Community Organization (SoCO) and subsequently became its chairman from 1988 to 1992. From 1978 to 1982 he acted as the Centre Supervisor for the Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council and became its coordinator in 1982. He was responsible for the Community Development Project, serving the Diamond Hill squatters. In 1980, he helped founding the Hong Kong Social Workers' General Union and served as its President from 1980 to 1988. In 1993 he received a Badge of Honour for his contributions.\n\nMak first became an appointed member of the Wong Tai Sin District Board in 1982. In 1986, he served on the Hong Kong Basic Law Consultative Committee where he called for a democratic political system. In 1989, he was involved in the Tiananmen protests and became a founding member of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China and had served as its vice-chairman. In 1990, he and other pro-democrats founded the United Democrats of Hong Kong and became its central committee member and after it was transformed into the Democratic Party. \n\nHe ran several times in the Legislative Council elections, first time in 1985 through the Social Services functional constituency but was defeated by Hui Yin-fat; second time in 1995 in Kowloon Northeast constituency against Chan Yuen-han of the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB) but was again defeated. He ran again in 1998 as a third candidate on the Democratic Party's Kowloon East ticket and was not elected. From 2007, he has been member of the Election Committee through Social Welfare sub-sector.\n"}
{"id": "368736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368736", "title": "Misconceptions about HIV/AIDS", "text": "Misconceptions about HIV/AIDS\n\nThe spread of HIV/AIDS has affected millions of people worldwide; AIDS is considered a pandemic. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that in 2016 there were 36.7 million people worldwide living with HIV/AIDS, with 1.8 million new HIV infections per year and 1 million deaths due to AIDS. In 2016, UNAIDS estimated: 2.1 million children (<15 years) worldwide were living with HIV/ AIDS and 17.8 million women (15+ years) worldwide were living with HIV/ AIDS. In 2011, UNAIDS estimated: 1.8 million new HIV infections in sub-Saharan Africa compared to 2.4 million new infections in 2001 a 25% decline. Between 2005-2011, the number of deaths from AIDS-related causes in sub-Saharan Africa declined by 32%,1.8 million to 1.2 million. From 2009 and 2011, the number of children newly infected with HIV fell in sub-Saharan Africa fell by 24%\n\nMisconceptions about HIV and AIDS arise from several different sources, from simple ignorance and misunderstandings about scientific knowledge regarding HIV infections and the cause of AIDS to misinformation propagated by individuals and groups with ideological stances that deny a causative relationship between HIV infection and the development of AIDS. Below is a list and explanations of some common misconceptions and their rebuttals.\n\nHIV is an acronym for human immunodeficiency virus, which is the virus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). Contracting HIV can lead to the development of AIDS or stage 3 HIV, which causes serious damage to the immune system. While this virus is the underlying cause of AIDS, not all HIV-positive individuals have AIDS, as HIV can remain in a latent state for many years. Although usually AIDS is the late stage of an HIV infection. If undiagnosed or left untreated, HIV usually progresses to AIDS, defined as possessing a CD4+ lymphocyte count under 200 cells/μl or HIV infection plus co-infection with an AIDS-defining opportunistic infection. HIV cannot be cured, but it can be treated, and its transmission can be halted. Treating HIV can prevent new infections, which is the key to ultimately defeating AIDS.\n\nHighly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART) in many cases allows the stabilization of the patient's symptoms, partial recovery of CD4+ T-cell levels, and reduction in viremia (the level of virus in the blood) to low or near-undetectable levels. Disease-specific drugs can also alleviate symptoms of AIDS and even cure specific AIDS-defining conditions in some cases. Medical treatment can reduce HIV infection in many cases to a survivable chronic condition. However, these advances do not constitute a cure, since current treatment regimens cannot eradicate latent HIV from the body.\n\nHigh levels of HIV-1 (often HAART-resistant) develop if treatment is stopped, if compliance with treatment is inconsistent, or if the virus spontaneously develops resistance to an individual's regimen. Antiretroviral treatment known as post-exposure prophylaxis reduces the chance of acquiring an HIV infection when administered within 72 hours of exposure to HIV. These problems mean that while HIV-positive people with low viremia are less likely to infect others, the chance of transmission always exists. In addition, people on HAART may still become sick.\n\nThe myth that sex with a virgin will cure AIDS is prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa. Sex with an uninfected virgin does not cure an HIV-infected person, and such contact will expose the uninfected individual to HIV, potentially further spreading the disease. This myth has gained considerable notoriety as the perceived reason for certain sexual abuse and child molestation occurrences, including the rape of infants, in Africa.\n\nIn 2002, the National Council of Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) in Johannesburg, South Africa, recorded beliefs amongst youths that sex with animals is a means to avoid AIDS or cure it if infected. As with \"virgin cure\" beliefs, there is no scientific evidence suggesting a sexual act can actually cure AIDS, and no plausible mechanism by which it could do so has ever been proposed. The risk of contracting HIV via sex with animals is small, but the practice has its own health risks.\n\nDiagnosis of infection using antibody testing is a well-established technique in medicine. HIV antibody tests exceed the performance of most other infectious disease tests in both sensitivity (the ability of the screening test to give a positive finding when the person tested truly has the disease) and specificity (the ability of the test to give a negative finding when the subjects tested are free of the disease under study). Many current HIV antibody tests have sensitivity and specificity in excess of 96% and are therefore extremely reliable. While most patients with HIV show an antibody response after six weeks, window periods vary and may occasionally be as long as three months.\n\nProgress in testing methodology has enabled detection of viral genetic material, antigens, and the virus itself in bodily fluids and cells. While not widely used for routine testing due to high cost and requirements in laboratory equipment, these direct testing techniques have confirmed the validity of the antibody tests.\n\nPositive HIV antibody tests are usually followed up by retests and tests for antigens, viral genetic material and the virus itself, providing confirmation of actual infection.\n\nOne cannot become infected with HIV through normal contact in social settings, schools, or in the workplace. One cannot be infected by shaking someone's hand, by hugging or \"dry\" kissing someone, by using the same toilet or drinking from the same glass as an HIV-infected person, or by being exposed to coughing or sneezing by an infected person. Saliva carries a negligible viral load, so even open-mouthed kissing is considered a low risk. However, if the infected partner or both of the performers have blood in their mouth due to cuts, open sores, or gum disease, the risk is higher. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has only recorded one case of possible HIV transmission through kissing (involving an HIV-infected man with significant gum disease and a sexual partner also with significant gum disease), and the Terence Higgins Trust says that this is essentially a no-risk situation.\n\nOther interactions that could \"theoretically\" result in person-to-person transmission include caring for nose bleeds and home health care procedures, yet there are very few recorded incidents of transmission occurring in these ways. A handful of cases of transmission via biting have occurred, though this is extremely rare.\n\nDue to media images of the effects of AIDS, many people believe that individuals infected with HIV always appear a certain way, or at least appear different from an uninfected, healthy person. In fact, disease progression can occur over a long period of time before the onset of symptoms, and as such, HIV infections cannot be detected based on appearance.\n\nContracting HIV through oral sex is not impossible, but it is much lower than from anal sex and penile–vaginal intercourse.\n\nWhen mosquitoes bite a person, they do not inject the blood of a previous victim into the person they bite next. Mosquitoes do, however, inject their saliva into their victims, which may carry diseases such as dengue fever, malaria, yellow fever, or West Nile virus and can infect a bitten person with these diseases. HIV is not transmitted in this manner. On the other hand, a mosquito may have HIV-infected blood in its gut, and if swatted on the skin of a human who then scratches it, transmission is hypothetically possible, though this risk is extremely small, and no cases have yet been identified through this route.\n\nHIV can survive at room temperature outside the body for hours if dry (provided that initial concentrations are high), and for weeks if wet (in used syringes/needles). However, the amounts typically present in bodily fluids do not survive nearly as long outside the body—generally no more than a few minutes if dry. Again, the amount of time is longer if wet, especially in syringes/needles and related equipment.\n\nIrrespective to sexual orientation, HIV can transmit from one person to another if an engaging partner is HIV positive. In the United States, the main route of infection is via homosexual anal sex, while for women transmission is primarily through heterosexual contact. Nevertheless, HIV can infect anybody, regardless of age, sex, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. It is true that anal sex (regardless of the gender of the receptive partner) carries a higher risk of infection than most sex acts, but most penetrative sex acts between any individuals carry some risk. Properly used condoms can reduce this risk.\n\nHIV-infected women remain fertile, although in late stages of HIV disease a pregnant woman may have a higher risk of miscarriage. Normally, the risk of transmitting HIV to the unborn child is between 15 and 30%. However, this may be reduced to just 2–3% if patients carefully follow medical guidelines.\n\nThis reasoning ignores numerous examples of viruses other than HIV that can be pathogenic after evidence of immunity appears. Measles virus may persist for years in brain cells, eventually causing a chronic neurologic disease despite the presence of antibodies. Viruses such as \"Cytomegalovirus\", \"Herpes simplex\" virus, and \"Varicella zoster\" may be activated after years of latency even in the presence of abundant antibodies. In other animals, viral relatives of HIV with long and variable latency periods, such as visna virus in sheep, cause central nervous system damage even after the production of antibodies.\n\nHIV has a well-recognized capacity to mutate to evade the ongoing immune response of the host.\n\nAlthough the fraction of CD4+ T-cells that is infected with HIV at any given time is never high (only a small subset of activated cells serve as ideal targets of infection), several groups have shown that rapid cycles of death of infected cells and infection of new target cells occur throughout the course of the disease. Macrophages and other cell types are also infected with HIV and serve as reservoirs for the virus.\n\nFurthermore, like other viruses, HIV is able to suppress the immune system by secreting proteins that interfere with it. For example, HIV's coat protein, gp120, sheds from viral particles and binds to the CD4 receptors of otherwise healthy T-cells; this interferes with the normal function of these signalling receptors. Another HIV protein, Tat, has been demonstrated to suppress T cell activity.\n\nInfected lymphocytes express the Fas ligand, a cell-surface protein that triggers the death of neighboring uninfected T-cells expressing the Fas receptor. This \"bystander killing\" effect shows that great harm can be caused to the immune system even with a limited number of infected cells.\n\nThe current consensus is that HIV was introduced to North America by a Haitian immigrant who contracted it while working in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the early 1960s, or from another person who worked there during that time. In 1981 on June 5, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) publish a \"Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report\" (MMWR), describing cases of a rare lung infection, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), from five healthy, gay men in Los Angeles. This edition would later become \"MMWR's\" first official reporting of the AIDS epidemic in North America. By year-end, an cumulative total of 270 reported cases of severe immune deficiency was founded amid gay men, 121 out of the 270 reported cases had died. On September 24 in 1982, CDC started to use the term “AIDS” (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) for the first time, and released the first case definition of AIDS: “a disease at least moderately predictive of a defect in cell-mediated immunity, occurring in a person with no known case for diminished resistance to that disease.” Than an edition in March 4,1983 of the \"Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report\" (MMWR), notes that CDC founded most cases of AIDS have been reported among homosexual men with multiple sexual partners, injection drug users, Haitians, and hemophiliacs. The report suggests that AIDS may be caused by an infectious agent that is transmitted sexually or through exposure to blood or blood products and issues recommendations for preventing transmission. Although most cases founded of HIV/AIDS were founded in gay men on January 7, 1983 CDC reported cases of AIDS in female sexual partners of males with AIDS. In 1984 Scientists identified the virus that causes AIDS, which was first named after the T-cells affected by the strain and is now called HIV or human immunodeficiency virus. Afterwards, A Canadian flight attendant, dubbed \"Patient Zero,\" dies of AIDS-related complications. His sexual connection to several of the first victims of HIV is erroneously reported that he is responsible for introducing the virus into North America. By this time there were 8,000 confirmed cases in the U.S., resulting in an alarming 3,500 deaths.\n\nOn September 17,1985 President Ronald Reagan for the first time mentions AIDS and vows in a letter to Congress to make AIDS a priority. In 1987 the FDA approved AZT which is the first antiretroviral drug for treating AIDS. The Ad Council partners with AMFAR and the National AIDS Network in 1989 launched a national AIDS education campaign. This was the first ad campaign in the U.S. to use the word \"condom.\" One of the campaign's slogans were \"Using it won't kill you. Not using it might.\" Singer Paul Jabara starts the Red Ribbon Foundation in 1991, which begins distributing ribbons as a symbol of tolerance for those living with HIV/AIDS. At the 11th International AIDS Conference in Vancouver, combination antiretroviral treatment is presented for the first time. These drugs are shown to be effective against HIV. Media outlets in 1997 started to report that for the first time since the epidemic of AIDS/HIV began, the AIDS death rate had declined in the U.S. thanks to the success of drug therapies. Researchers from the University of Alabama at Birmingham reported a discovery in 1999 of HIV-1 in a subspecies of chimpanzee. They believed this to be the source of the virus and theorize that human hunters contracted it when exposed to infected blood. Later in 2003, The FDA approves the first of a new type of anti-HIV drug called Fuzeon (also known as enfuvirtide or T-20). This drug is designed to prevent the entry of HIV into human cells. George W. Bush launches PEPFAR in 2004, the U.S. President's Emergency Plan to combat AIDS worldwide. \"This historic commitment is the largest by any nation to combat a single disease internationally,\" according to the PEPFAR website. President Obama removes a travel ban in 2009 that prevented HIV-positive people from entering the U.S. This leads to the announcement that the International AIDS Conference will be held in the U.S. for the first time in more than 20 years. During 2012 UNAIDS announces that new HIV infections have dropped more than 50% in 25 low- and middle-income countries, and the number of people getting antiretroviral treatment has increased 63% in the past two years. More than 34 million people are still living with HIV, according to global estimates.\n\nOrigin of AIDS through human–monkey sexual intercourse\nWhile HIV is most likely a mutated form of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), a disease present only in chimpanzees and African monkeys, highly plausible explanations for the transfer of the disease between species (zoonosis) exist not involving sexual intercourse. In particular, the African chimpanzees and monkeys which carry SIV are often hunted for food, and epidemiologists theorize that the disease may have appeared in humans after hunters came into blood-contact with monkeys infected with SIV that they had killed. The first known instance of HIV in a human was found in a person who died in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1959, and a recent study dates the last common ancestor of HIV and SIV to between 1884 and 1914 by using a molecular clock approach.\n\nTennessee State Senator Stacey Campfield was the subject of controversy in 2012 after stating that AIDS was the result of a human having sexual intercourse with a monkey.\n\nThe diseases that have come to be associated with AIDS in Africa, such as cachexia, diarrheal diseases and tuberculosis have long been severe burdens there. However, high rates of mortality from these diseases, formerly confined to the elderly and malnourished, are now common among HIV-infected young and middle-aged people, including well-educated members of the middle class.\n\nFor example, in a study in Côte d'Ivoire, HIV-seropositive individuals with pulmonary tuberculosis were 17 times more likely to die within six months than HIV-seronegative individuals with pulmonary tuberculosis. In Malawi, mortality over three years among children who had received recommended childhood immunizations and who survived the first year of life was 9.5 times higher among HIV-seropositive children than among HIV-seronegative children. The leading causes of death were wasting and respiratory conditions. Elsewhere in Africa, findings are similar.\n\nThere is broad scientific consensus that HIV is the cause of AIDS, but some individuals reject this consensus, including biologist Peter Duesberg, biochemist David Rasnick, journalist/activist Celia Farber, conservative writer Tom Bethell, and intelligent design advocate Phillip E. Johnson. (Some one-time skeptics have since rejected AIDS denialism, including physiologist Robert Root-Bernstein, and physician and AIDS researcher Joseph Sonnabend.)\n\nA great deal is known about the pathogenesis of HIV disease, even though important details remain to be elucidated. However, a complete understanding of the pathogenesis of a disease is not a prerequisite to knowing its cause. Most infectious agents have been associated with the disease they cause long before their pathogenic mechanisms have been discovered. Because research in pathogenesis is difficult when precise animal models are unavailable, the disease-causing mechanisms in many diseases, including tuberculosis and hepatitis B, are poorly understood, but the pathogens responsible are very well established.\n\nThe vast majority of people with AIDS never received antiretroviral drugs, including those in developed countries prior to the licensure of AZT in 1987. Even today, very few individuals in developing countries have access to these medications.\n\nIn the 1980s, clinical trials enrolling patients with AIDS found that AZT given as single-drug therapy conferred a modest (and short-lived) survival advantage compared to placebo. Among HIV-infected patients who had not yet developed AIDS, placebo-controlled trials found that AZT given as a single-drug therapy delayed, for a year or two, the onset of AIDS-related illnesses. The lack of excess AIDS cases and death in the AZT arms of these placebo-controlled trials effectively counters the argument that AZT causes AIDS.\n\nSubsequent clinical trials found that patients receiving two-drug combinations had up to 50% increases in time to progression to AIDS and in survival when compared to people receiving single-drug therapy. In more recent years, three-drug combination therapies have produced another 50–80% improvements in progression to AIDS and in survival when compared to two-drug regimens in clinical trials. Use of potent anti-HIV combination therapies has contributed to dramatic reductions in the incidence of AIDS and AIDS-related deaths in populations where these drugs are widely available, an effect which would be unlikely if antiretroviral drugs \"caused\" AIDS.\n\nThe proposed behavioral causes of AIDS, such as multiple sexual partners and long-term recreational drug use, have existed for many years. The epidemic of AIDS, characterized by the occurrence of formerly rare opportunistic infections such as \"Pneumocystis carinii\" pneumonia (PCP), did not occur in the United States until a previously unknown human retrovirus—HIV—spread through certain communities.\n\nCompelling evidence against the hypothesis that behavioral factors cause AIDS comes from recent studies that have followed cohorts of homosexual men for long periods of time and found that only HIV-seropositive men develop AIDS. For example, in a prospectively studied cohort in Vancouver, British Columbia, 715 homosexual men were followed for a median of 8.6 years. Among 365 HIV-positive individuals, 136 developed AIDS. No AIDS-defining illnesses occurred among 350 seronegative men, despite the fact that these men reported appreciable use of nitrite inhalants (\"poppers\") and other recreational drugs, and frequent receptive anal intercourse (Schechter et al., 1993).\n\nOther studies show that among homosexual men and injection-drug users, the specific immune deficit that leads to AIDS—a progressive and sustained loss of CD4+ T-cells—is extremely rare in the absence of other immunosuppressive conditions. For example, in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, more than 22,000 T-cell determinations in 2,713 HIV-seronegative homosexual men revealed only one individual with a CD4+ T-cell count persistently lower than 300 cells/µl of blood, and this individual was receiving immunosuppressive therapy.\n\nIn a survey of 229 HIV-seronegative injection-drug users in New York City, mean CD4+ T-cell counts of the group were consistently more than 1000 cells/µl of blood. Only two individuals had two CD4+ T-cell measurements of less than 300/µl of blood, one of whom died with cardiac disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma listed as the cause of death.\n\nThis notion is contradicted by a report by the Transfusion Safety Study Group (TSSG), which compared HIV-negative and HIV-positive blood recipients who had been given blood transfusions for similar diseases. Approximately 3 years following blood transfusion, the mean CD4+ T-cell count in 64 HIV-negative recipients was 850/µl of blood, while 111 HIV-seropositive individuals had average CD4+ T-cell counts of 375/µl of blood. By 1993, there were 37 cases of AIDS in the HIV-infected group, but not a single AIDS-defining illness in the HIV-seronegative transfusion recipients.\n\nThis view is contradicted by many studies. For example, among HIV-seronegative patients with hemophilia A enrolled in the Transfusion Safety Study, no significant differences in CD4+ T-cell counts were noted between 79 patients with no or minimal factor treatment and 52 with the largest amount of lifetime treatments. Patients in both groups had CD4+ T-cell-counts within the normal range. In another report from the Transfusion Safety Study, no instances of AIDS-defining illnesses were seen among 402 HIV-seronegative hemophiliacs who had received factortherapy.\n\nIn a cohort in the United Kingdom, researchers matched 17 HIV-seropositive hemophiliacs with 17 HIV-seronegative hemophiliacs with regard to clotting factor concentrate usage over a ten-year period. During this time, 16 AIDS-defining clinical events occurred in 9 patients, all of whom were HIV-seropositive. No AIDS-defining illnesses occurred among the HIV-negative patients. In each pair, the mean CD4+ T-cell count during follow-up was, on average, 500 cells/µl lower in the HIV-seropositive patient.\n\nAmong HIV-infected hemophiliacs, Transfusion Safety Study investigators found that neither the purity nor the amount of factor VIII therapy had a deleterious effect on CD4+ T-cell counts. Similarly, the Multicenter Hemophilia Cohort Study found no association between the cumulative dose of plasma concentrate and incidence of AIDS among HIV-infected hemophiliacs.\n\nThe distribution of AIDS cases, whether in the United States or elsewhere in the world, invariably mirrors the prevalence of HIV in a population. In the United States, HIV first appeared in populations of injection-drug users (a majority of whom are male) and gay men. HIV is spread primarily through unprotected sex, the exchange of HIV-contaminated needles, or cross-contamination of the drug solution and infected blood during intravenous drug use. Because these behaviors show a gender skew—Western men are more likely to take illegal drugs intravenously than Western women, and men are more likely to report higher levels of the riskiest sexual behaviors, such as unprotected anal intercourse—it is not surprising that a majority of U.S. AIDS cases have occurred in men.\n\nWomen in the United States, however, are increasingly becoming HIV-infected, usually through the exchange of HIV-contaminated needles or sex with an HIV-infected male. The CDC estimates that 30 percent of new HIV infections in the United States in 1998 were in women. As the number of HIV-infected women has risen, so too has the number of female AIDS patients in the United States. Approximately 23% of U.S. adult/adolescent AIDS cases reported to the CDC in 1998 were among women. In 1998, AIDS was the fifth leading cause of death among women aged 25 to 44 in the United States, and the third leading cause of death among African-American women in that age group.\n\nIn Africa, HIV was first recognized in sexually active heterosexuals, and AIDS cases in Africa have occurred at least as frequently in women as in men. Overall, the worldwide distribution of HIV infection and AIDS between men and women is approximately 1 to 1. In sub-Saharan Africa, 57% of adults with HIV are women, and young women aged 15 to 24 are more than three times as likely to be infected as young men.\n\nHIV infections have a prolonged and variable course. The median period of time between infection with HIV and the onset of clinically apparent disease is approximately 10 years in industrialized countries, according to prospective studies of homosexual men in which dates of seroconversion are known. Similar estimates of asymptomatic periods have been made for HIV-infected blood-transfusion recipients, injection-drug users and adult hemophiliacs.\n\nAs with many diseases, a number of factors can influence the course of HIV disease. Factors such as age or genetic differences between individuals, the level of virulence of the individual strain of virus, as well as exogenous influences such as co-infection with other microbes may determine the rate and severity of HIV disease expression. Similarly, some people infected with hepatitis B, for example, show no symptoms or only jaundice and clear their infection, while others suffer disease ranging from chronic liver inflammation to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Co-factors probably also determine why some smokers develop lung cancer while others do not.\n\nMost AIDS symptoms result from the development of opportunistic infections and cancers associated with severe immunosuppression secondary to HIV.\n\nHowever, immunosuppression has many other potential causes. Individuals who take glucocorticoids or immunosuppressive drugs to prevent transplant rejection or to treat autoimmune diseases can have increased susceptibility to unusual infections, as do individuals with certain genetic conditions, severe malnutrition and certain kinds of cancers. There is no evidence suggesting that the numbers of such cases have risen, while abundant epidemiologic evidence shows a very large rise in cases of immunosuppression among individuals who share one characteristic: HIV infection.\n\nThe diseases associated with AIDS, such as Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) and Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), are not caused by HIV, but rather result from the immunosuppression caused by HIV disease. As the immune system of an HIV-infected individual weakens, he or she becomes susceptible to the particular viral, fungal, and bacterial infections common in the community. For example, HIV-infected people in the Midwestern United States are much more likely than people in New York City to develop histoplasmosis, which is caused by a fungus. A person in Africa is exposed to pathogens different from individuals in an American city. Children may be exposed to infectious agents different from adults.\n\nHIV is the underlying cause of the condition named AIDS, but the additional conditions that may affect an AIDS patient are dependent upon the endemic pathogens to which the patient may be exposed.\n\nMany HIV-infected people turn to complementary and alternative medicine, such as traditional medicine, especially in areas where conventional therapies are less widespread. However, the overwhelming majority of scientifically rigorous research indicates little or negative effect on patient outcomes such as HIV-symptom severity and disease duration, and mixed outcomes on psychological well-being. It is important that patients notify their healthcare provider prior to beginning any treatment, as certain alternative therapies may interfere with conventional treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56975243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56975243", "title": "Nick Fuentes", "text": "Nick Fuentes\n\nNicholas Joseph Fuentes (born August 18, 1998) is an American YouTube personality and political commentator. He regularly hosts the \"America First\" podcast and formerly hosted \"Nationalist Review\", with co-host James Allsup. He has been called far-right and alt-right, terms he rejects. He previously worked as a host on the Right Side Broadcasting Network, but was removed after calling for violence against journalists. He later left Boston University after allegedly receiving several death threats and stated he intends to transfer to Auburn University, though he has yet to confirm enrollment.\n\nFuentes graduated from Lyons Township High School, and was the school's student council president. He initially attended Boston University, but later dropped out to attend the Unite the Right rally rally in Charlottevile, Virginia. Fuentes has stated he intends to transfer to Auburn University, as it is within a staunch red state. Despite being admitted for the fall 2017 semester, he failed to confirm his enrollment and must apply for the spring semester by the deadline of October 1, 2018.\n\nHe is one-quarter Mexican, from which he derives his Hispanic surname. Fuentes identifies as white, not Latino.\n\nOn April 25, 2017, while a host on Right Side Broadcasting Network, Fuentes said he wanted \"the people that run CNN to be arrested, and deported or hanged\" for their \"malicious intent\" toward the American people. Fuentes had also stated, \"the First Amendment was not written for Muslims\". They later issued an apology claiming what he said had been \"in jest\". As a result of hidden video footage of him saying that interracial sex was \"degenerate\", Right Side Broadcasting removed Fuentes as a host on their network.\n\nOn August 12, 2017, Fuentes flew from Chicago to attend the second day of the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. \"The Boston Globe\" covered his appearance and quoted his denouncing of violence, as well as his claim that the \"vast majority\" of protestors were neither KKK members nor Nazis. Fuentes was quoted by \"The New York Times\" as saying that \"the rootless transnational elite knows that a tidal wave of white identity is coming and they know that once the word gets out, they will not be able to stop us. The fire rises!\".\n\nOn January 14, 2018 his \"Nationalist Review\" podcast co-host James Allsup said that the two had separated due to administrative disputes.\n\nOn April 11, 2018, Heavy.com reported that Fuentes's YouTube channel had 11,000 subscribers, referring to him as an \"America First nationalist\", while covering his public disavowing of Paul Nehlen. He ran a knife through one of Nehlen's campaign posters live on a podcast.\n\nFuentes has described himself as a paleoconservative. Fuentes attended Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in 2018, and also spoke at the 2018 American Renaissance conference, which was founded by white nationalist Jared Taylor. Fuentes also believes in the white genocide conspiracy theory. Fuentes has denied being a racist, and has rejected Nazism. Right Wing Watch have accused Fuentes of anti-Semitism. He is pro-concealed carry and has advocated the arming of teachers in the wake of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting.\n\nIn a leaked video from August 2017, Fuentes said he believed interracial relationships were \"degenerate\" and said that Jews harmed his daily existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3853361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3853361", "title": "Nomos (sociology)", "text": "Nomos (sociology)\n\nIn sociology, nomos refers to provisional codes (habits or customs) of social and political behavior, socially constructed and historically (even geographically) specific. The term derives from the Greek νόμος, and it refers not only to explicit laws but to all of the normal rules and forms people take for granted in their day-to-day activities. Nomos stands for order, valid and binding on those who fall under its jurisdiction; thus it is a social construct with ethical dimensions. It is a belief, opinion or point of view; it is a human invention.\n\nCarl Schmitt began using the term in his 1934 publication \"On the Three Types of Juristic Thought\" to denote the \"concrete order\" of a people, before extending its use into his 1950 book \"The Nomos of the Earth in the International Law of the Jus Publicum Europaeum\".\n\nAfter Schmitt, the next influential writer to use the term in a modern context is Peter L. Berger. Berger writes of human beings fashioning a world by their own activity (1967:5). Berger sees this taking place through a continual threefold cycle between individuals and society: externalisation, objectivation and internalization. The world thus fashioned has an order—a set of principles—which comes to be read onto society by individuals through externalisation and objectivation, and also internalised in each individual. This order thus comes to be assumed, spoken of, and placed into social discourse to be treated as common sense. This ordering of the world and experience, which is a corporate and social process as well as an individual one, is a nomos.\n\nBerger writes of 'The socially established nomos' being understood 'as a shield against terror. Put differently, the most important function of society is nomization.' (1967:22). We all need that structuring nomos; it provides us with stability, predictability, a frame of reference in which to live. The alternative is the chaos and terror of what Berger calls anomy.\n\nTo be most effective, the nomos must be taken for granted. The structure of the world created by human and social activity is treated not as contingent, but as self-evident. 'Whenever the socially established nomos attains the quality of being taken for granted, there occurs a merging of its meanings with what are considered to be the fundamental meanings inherent in the universe.' (1967:24-25). Berger sees this happening in all societies, and while the nomos is expressed in religious terms in 'archaic societies', 'In contemporary society, this archaic cosmization of the social world is likely to take the form of \"scientific\" propositions about the nature of men rather than the nature of the universe.' (1967:25).\n\nSo this process of world-construction is not necessarily religious, but its expression has most often been religious. Later Berger explores the part religious belief has played in nomoi: providing a connection with the cosmic—seeking to provide a completeness to that religious world-view.\n\n'Every human society is an edifice of externalized and objectivated meanings, always intending a meaningful totality. Every society is engaged in the never completed enterprise of building a humanly meaningful world. Cosmization implies the identification of this humanly meaningful world with the world as such, the former now being grounded in the latter, reflecting it or being derived from it in its fundamental structures. Such a cosmos, as the ultimate ground and validation of human nomoi, need not necessarily be sacred. Particularly in modern times there have been thoroughly secular attempts at cosmization, among which modern science is by far the most important. It is safe to say, however, that originally all cosmization had a sacred character.' (1967:27).\n\nThe next landmark in the use of the term is generally thought to be by Robert Cover, who argued in his influential 1982 paper Nomos and Narrative that while the mechanisms of law and social control are part of law, that students of the law, and legal actors, should instead focus on the normative universe, the whole of the means of social control. As with Berger, Cover rooted the nomos in \"narrative\", or what a post-structuralist would call meta-narrative. Cover argued that no set of legal institutions exists apart from the narratives that locate it and give it meaning.\n\nHe says this because he argues that our moral sense is composed of the narratives from which we draw conclusions, and by which we locate ourselves in relation to other people. He argues that because narrative is morality, the normative universe must rest on narrative. Since we also construct our view of the universe physically from narrative, he argues that the normative universe is as much a part of our existence as the physical universe.\n\nCover then makes an argument of incorporation: he states that just as we develop increasingly complex responses to the physical world, so too is our development of responses to \"otherness\" conditioned over time by interaction. From this he argues that societies that have great legal systems rest on more than formal and technical virtuosity, but in the richness of their understanding of the normative universe.\n\nCover argues that the explicit relationship between formal apparatus of a society, in this case a legal society, and the normative range of behavior is the fulcrum to understanding whether the society is functional or not.\n\nCover's use of the term is rooted in Berger's argument that nomos requires mythology and narrative, as pillars for the understanding of the meaning of each act within a particular nomos.\n\n"}
{"id": "54192700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54192700", "title": "Norfolk four-course system", "text": "Norfolk four-course system\n\nThe Norfolk four-course system is a method of agriculture that involves crop rotation. Unlike other methods such as the three-field system, the Norfolk system is marked by an absence of a fallow year. Instead, four different crops are grown in each year of a four-year cycle: wheat, turnips, barley, and clover or undergrass. It was developed in Norfolk, England in the 17th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "8494433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8494433", "title": "Oil embargo", "text": "Oil embargo\n\nAn oil embargo is an economic situation wherein entities engage in an embargo to limit the transport of petroleum to or from an area, in order to exact some desired outcome. One commentator states, \"[a]n oil embargo is not a common commercial practice; it is a tool of political blackmail, meant to force those at whom it is aimed, into some action they would otherwise not be willing to take\".\n\nNotable examples of international oil embargoes include:\n"}
{"id": "10111618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10111618", "title": "Palestinian National Unity Government of March 2007", "text": "Palestinian National Unity Government of March 2007\n\nThe Palestinian National Unity Government of March 2007 () was a Palestinian Authority unity government from March to June 2007, headed by Ismail Haniyeh, the Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority.\n\nThe Unity Government was formed on 17 March 2007 following negotiations in Mecca, but due to failing international support because it did not meet the Quartet conditions, it was short-living. Israel immediately rejected the Government and said it will deal with Abbas, but not with the new government unless it recognizes the Jewish state. Israeli officials said they would try to persuade the world not to deal with the government.\n\nAfter a Fatah–Hamas battle, the Government was dissolved by President Mahmoud Abbas on 14 June 2007.\n\nAfter the 2006 elections which Hamas won, Fatah developed a plan to replace the Hamas-government. According to the plan, a national unity government or a \"government of technocrats\" would be formed and prepare early presidential and legislative elections. If the establishment of a government meeting the Quartet conditions would fail, President Abbas would announce a state of emergency, dismiss the present cabinet and form an emergency government, or call for early elections. The plan was, for the time being, not carried out in full, as indeed a \"unity government\" was formed in March 2007.\n\nOn 25 January 2006, Hamas won the parliamentary elections. Israel, the United States, the European Union and several Western states then imposed sanctions suspending all foreign aid, upon which Palestinians depend.\n\nIn March 2006, the previous Government was installed.\n\nOn 8 February 2007, negotiations in Mecca brokered by Saudi Arabia produced the Fatah–Hamas Mecca Agreement, an agreement to form a Palestinian national unity government. The agreement was signed by Mahmoud Abbas on behalf of Fatah and by Khaled Mashal on behalf of Hamas. The agreement also contained a \"letter of commission\" from Abbas to Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas, calling on Haniyeh as premier of the next government to achieve Palestinian national goals as approved by the Palestine National Council, the clauses of the Basic Law and the National Reconciliation Document (the Prisoners' Document) as well as the decisions of the Arab summit.\n\nOn 17 March, Ismail Haniyeh presented his new national unity government before the Palestinian Legislative Council. The Parliament approved the government, with 83 representatives voting in favor and three against. The 25 ministers were sworn in by President Mahmoud Abbas at the ceremony, which was held simultaneously in Gaza and Ramallah. The program of the national unity government included ending the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and recognizing the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people, and the establishment of the independent Palestinian state with full sovereignty within the 1967 borders, with al-Quds as its capital, implementation of the Cairo Agreement pertaining to the PLO, and commitment to the Palestinian right of return. Israel rejected the new government, while Norway recognized it and other countries reacted with reserve. On that moment, 41 of 132 Members of Parliament, nearly a third of the PLC, were in Israeli detention.\n\nAfter fierce battles between Fatah and Hamas on 10 to 14 June 2007, Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip during the Battle of Gaza. On 14 June, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared the state of emergency by Presidential decree, and dismissed Haniyeh's 2007 National Unity Government. He appointed an emergency government and suspended articles of the Basic Law, to circumvent the needed parliamental approval.\n\nFollowing the takeover of the Gaza Strip, Egypt and Israel largely sealed their border crossings with Gaza, ostensibly because Fatah had fled and was no longer providing security on the Palestinian side. Egypt assisted in the blockade, allegedly because it feared a spill-over of Hamas-style militancy into their territory.\n\nMarch to June 2007 \n\n"}
{"id": "26250614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26250614", "title": "Patriot (Spanish American independence)", "text": "Patriot (Spanish American independence)\n\nPatriots () was the name that the people of the Spanish America who rebelled against Spanish control during the Spanish American wars of independence called themselves. They supported the principles of the Age of Enlightenment and sought to replace the existing governing structures with Juntas. At first they declared themselves loyal to Ferdinand VII, who was captive of Napoleon Bonaparte and who seemed a supporter of the new ideals because of his conflict with his father, the absolutist Charles IV. However, when Ferdinand VII was restored to power and began the Absolutist Restoration, most patriots in South America decided to support independence instead. \n\nSome of the most important war leaders of the patriotic movements are called Libertadores instead. The term \"patriot\" is used to refer to supporters of the revolution in general, or civil leaders without military activity, such as Mariano Moreno. The enemies of the patriots, who supported keeping the existing state of things, were called Royalists. Most patriots were Criollo peoples, whereas most royalists were Peninsulares; but there were both examples of royalist criollos (such as José Manuel de Goyeneche) and patriotic peninsulares (such as Domingo Matheu).\n\nLike with the case of the contemporary North American Patriots from the American Revolution, the word \"patriot\" was not used interchangeably with \"nationalist\", as it is today. Rather, the concept of patriotism was linked to enlightenment values concerning a common good, which transcended national and social boundaries. Patriotism, thus, did not require someone to stand behind his country at all costs, and there would not necessarily be a contradiction between being a patriot and revolting against king and country.\n\n"}
{"id": "28049183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28049183", "title": "Political killings in the Philippines (2001–10)", "text": "Political killings in the Philippines (2001–10)\n\nThe political killings in the Philippines are a series of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances of left-wing politicians and activists, journalists, human rights advocates, the political opposition, and outspoken clergy that have increased dramatically since 2001.\n\nNumerous actors are said to be responsible for these killings which include the New People's Army and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. Left-wing political groups, such as the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, meanwhile blame the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police, the Citizen Armed Force Geographical Unit, and government-backed militias. They state that it is part of the official government policy of eradicating the threat from the insurgency of the Communist Party of the Philippines and was officially sanctioned by the government of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo with the codename of Oplan Bantay Laya (Operation Plan Bantay Laya).\n\nThese series of events have placed the Philippines on the human rights watch lists of the United Nations and the United States Congress. Philip Alston, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial killings has criticized the Philippine government for not doing enough to stop the killings, many of which had been linked to government anti-insurgency operations.\n\nThe political killings in the Philippines, with an estimated death toll of over 1,200 in 2010, began during the administration of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in 2001. These include extrajudicial harassment, torture, disappearances and murder of civilian non-combatants by the military and police. The events are thought to be linked to the \"War on Terrorism\" in 2001 and includes more than 850 mainstream journalists and other public figures and the harassment, detention, or torture of untold more.\n\nMany commentators have criticized the killings, such as James Petras and Robin Eastman-Abaya, who have said that \"Human rights groups provide evidence that death squads operate under the protective umbrella of regional military commands, especially the U.S.-trained Special Forces\". The historian, E. San Juan, Jr., meanwhile, writes that the estimates of killings vary on the precise number, with the government estimating only 114. It has failed to gain any convictions, and had only arrested 3 suspects in the over 100 cases of assassination. He also alleges that the Arroyo government initially made no response to the dramatic increase in violence and killings writing that the \"Arroyo has been tellingly silent over the killing and abduction of countless members of opposition parties and popular organizations\". He later writes in February 2007, that the United Nations Special Rapporteur Philip Alston implicated the Philippine police and military are responsible for the crimes, and in his report, Alston charged Arroyo's propaganda and counter-insurgency strategy with the act that \"encourage or facilitate the extra-judicial killings of activists and other enemies\" of the state. and that \"the AFP remains in a state of almost total denial… of its need to respond effectively and authentically to the significant number of killings which have been convincingly attributed to them\"\n\nThe online publication Bulatlat states that \"[A]ccording to a recent international fact-finding mission of Dutch and Belgian judges and lawyers, [the government-created body] Task Force Usig 'has not proven to be an independent body…the PNP has a poor record as far as the effective investigation of the killings is concerned and is mistrusted by the Philippine people\". Task Force Usig dismissed nearly half of the 114 cases of assassination as \"cold\" and, of the 58 cases where charges were brought, has secured only convictions only twice.\n\nAs a result of the state of emergency in 2006, Presidential Proclamation 1017 was signed by Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which according to Cher S Jimenez writing in Asia Times Online,\n\ngrants exceptional unchecked powers to the executive branch, placing the country in a state of emergency and permitting the police and security forces to conduct warrantless arrests against enemies of the state, including...members of the political opposition and journalists from critical media outlets. With 185 dead, 2006 is so far (2007) the highest annual mark for extrajudicial government murders. Of the 2006 killings, the dead were \"mostly left-leaning activists, murdered without trial or punishment for the perpetrators\", the issuance of the proclamation conspicuously coincided with a dramatic increase in political violence and extrajudicial killings.\n\nCurrent Secretary of Justice and former Human Rights Commissioner Leila de Lima has stated that she seeks a resolution to the problem. \"The New York Times\" reported in 2010 that an estimated 1,200 civilians have died due to the campaign.\n\nOn August 2010, the Armed Forces of the Philippines announced that the counter-insurgency program would end by December 31, 2010.\nBagong Alyansang Makabayan condemned the extension.\n\nThe following are interim recommendations from the Alston Report of United Nations Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions Philip Alston published in 2007.\n\n\nOn August 21, 2006, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo created an investigating body headed by former Supreme Court Justice Jose Melo to probe the extrajudicial and political killings which had targeted militant activists and members of the press. The body, popularly known as the Melo Commission, rendered a report which concluded that most of the killings were instigated by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, but found no proof linking the murder of activists to a \"national policy\" as claimed by the left-wing groups. On the other hand, the report \"linked state security forces to the murder of militants and recommended that military officials, notably retired major general Jovito Palparan, be held liable under the principle of command responsibility for killings in their areas of assignment.\"\n\nThe government of the Philippines has denied any involvement in the killings, and said, in 2007, that a drop by 83% in the number of political killings that year \"underline the Arroyo government's strong commitment to human rights and its firm resolve to put an end to these unexplained killings and put their perpetrators behind bars.\" This was said to be the result in the creation of a task force was created in 2006 as the government's response to the extrajudicial killings. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo has publicly condemned political killings \"in the harshest possible terms\" and urged witnesses to come forward, although the sincerity of this condemnation is in doubt due to the continuation of these killings.\n\nThe Armed Forces of the Philippines, meanwhile, boasts the achievements of the counter-insurgency program stating that the said plan has reduced the number of militants from the Communist Party of the Philippines and the New People's Army in several provinces of the Philippines.\n\nLeft-wing politicians from the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, including Satur Ocampo, Liza Maza, Teddy Casiño, Rafael V. Mariano, and Luzviminda Ilagan, has stated in 2010 that the government of Benigno Aquino III should \"acknowledge the existence of extrajudicial executions of activists and scrap the operation plan behind these murders\" and that \"they are willing to sit down with Aquino to present their concerns and offer solutions if the President wants to\". They further said that \"Aquino's vow to uphold human rights should be measured by concrete political and military reforms he is ready to initiate in his government, starting with the scrapping of Oplan Bantay Laya and its criminal component of targeting activists and civilians\".\n\nA variety of human rights organizations have criticized the Philippine government for failing to act against the killings including Human Rights Watch, Freedom House, Amnesty International, the Committee to Protect Journalists, and Reporters Without Borders.\n\nReporters Without Borders states that:\n\nPolice officers, soldiers, or militiamen have been implicated in most of the hundred or so murders of journalists since democracy was restored in 1986. Employed by corrupt politicians or hired as contract killers, they usually target local radio presenters who have upset the people they are working for. The same modus operandi is nearly always used: two masked men on a motorcycle gun the journalist down as he is leaving his place of work. For a few thousand dollars, they eliminate the person who has been too outspoken. The cycle of violence has never ended because the culture of impunity is so strong, especially on Mindanao.\n\nAmnesty International states that ...\n\nWhile Human Rights Watch, in a 2008 report, reported\n\nHuman Rights Watch further writes that the murders and kidnappings are rarely investigated by the police or other government agencies; they often go unreported because of fears of reprisal against the victims or their families. The Philippine National Police blame investigative failures on this reluctance, but as Human Rights Watch writes:\n\nThe human rights watchdog, Karapatan, documented 169,530 human rights violations against individuals, 18,515 against families, 71 against communities, and 196 against households. One person is said to be killed every three days during the Arroyo regime or a total of 271 persons .\n\nThe European Union on laments the lack of court convictions in cases of political killings ... despite a marked decline in the incidents due to international pressure on the government. Alistair MacDonald, ambassador of the European Commission, said the drop in the number of extrajudicial killings in [ ... 2007] was a welcome development. But he noted that 'it is regrettable that as yet there have been no convictions in relation to the killings of political activists' and the attacks were continuing despite pronouncements by the Philippine government to address the issue.\n\nThe United States State Department report on human rights has criticized the government of the Philippines for failing to stop these killings saying that:\n\nArbitrary, unlawful, and extrajudicial killings by elements of the security services and political killings, including killings of journalists, by a variety of actors continued to be major problems. Concerns about impunity persisted. Members of the security services committed acts of physical and psychological abuse on suspects and detainees, and there were instances of torture... Disappearances occurred, and arbitrary or warrantless arrests and detentions were common... Leftist and human rights activists often were subject to harassment by local security forces.\n\nThe United States State Department designates the Communist Party of the Philippines as a Foreign Terrorist Organization.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "49268025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49268025", "title": "Praja Mandala movement", "text": "Praja Mandala movement\n\nThe Praja Mandala movement was a part of the Indian independence movement from the 1920s in which people living in the princely states, who were subject to the rule of local aristocrats rather than the British Raj, campaigned against those feudatory rulers, and sometimes also the British administration, in attempts to improve their civil rights.\n\nOne response to the Praja Mandal agitations was the foundation of the Central Reserve Police Force in 1939.\n\nWhen the province of Orissa was created by dividing the existing Bihar and Orissa Province in 1936, it became the first administrative region of British India to be defined on a linguistic basis. Although this satisfied some long-standing desires, it made little practical difference to many of the populace because the new province included 26 areas under independent feudal control, called garjats, where the peasantry in particular suffered the effects of misrule and autocratic powers. The remainder of the new province was controlled by the British Raj authorities.\n\nAlthough the people of Orissa had little involvement in the Gandhi-inspired Salt March protests of 1930, that campaign did lead to the First All Orissa States People's Conference being held at Cuttack in the following year, with Bhubanananda Das and Sena Adhaksya Senapati Nakula Samanta Sinhar of HindolPrincelyState acting as president. It had the aim of persuading the ruling garjat chiefs to agree to more representative government but achieved nothing more than to increase their repression. A second Conference held in 1937 had more effect. Its aim was to achieve more equitable government and it led to the establishment of Praja Mandals (People's Associations) in most of the garjat states, demanding changes to the feudal system. Their demands included an end to forced labour and illegal taxes, as well as rights relating to freedom of association, publication of newspapers and property.\n\nThe first sign of trouble involving a Praja Mandal arose in the princely state of Nilgiri, where peasant demands for fairer laws resulted in the ruler adopting repressive, even brutal, measures in response. Whilst a temporary truce was eventually achieved, problems then arose also in the states of Talcher and Dhenkanal. While the ruler of the latter state took such strong measures that several people were killed, the ruler of Talcher faced an unusual protest that attracted national attention: many of his peasantry moved out of the state to settle in temporary camps in the British-governed area of Orissa. Another unusual protest occurred in Nayagarh State when its ruler attempted to introduce a monopoly on the supply of betel: the population reacted by almost entirely stopping their consumption, which led to the arrest of some of its leaders.\n\nDiscontent was voiced in other states, such as Athgarh, Baramba, Narsinghpur, Nayagarh, Ranpur and Tigiria, sometimes resulting in violence and death. Following an organised \"All Orissa Garjat Day\" on 29 October 1938, when people attempted to voice their concerns in unity, the troubles continued into 1939.\n\nIn early January 1939, a British Political Agent, Major Bazelgette, was killed while trying to defuse tensions in Ranpur. The news of this dampened protests elsewhere, and notably so in Nayagarh, where Bazelgette had been summoned a few days earlier to assist the beleaguered raja in calming the Praja Mandal. Whilst the rajas might resort to violence, the Indian independence movement, as exemplified by Gandhi's Congress Party, believed in non-violent protest and civil disobedience; Congress leaders such as Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Subash Chandra Bose welcomed the political awakening of the people in Orissa but simultaneously condemned the killing. The British responded to the death by sending in troops, executing the ringleaders, and deposing the raja in favour of direct control.\n\nA 1939 report by the Orissa States Enquiry Committee, which had been formed in 1937 to investigate the garjat states, came to nothing because of the outbreak of World War II, during the period of which the British would not countenance any changes or agitation. The Praja Mandal movement came to the fore again when the war ended, spurred by the possibility of wide-ranging change should the British grant India its independence. The first cracks appeared when the ruler of Nilgiri attempted to put a wedge between the tribal and non-tribal communities of his state by fomenting attacks from one on the other. This decision, which he hoped would undermine the Praja Mandal, created a major problem in law and order that made it necessary for the Government of Orissa to intervene on instructions from the central government. The central government were particularly concerned to contain the problem, which had the potential to spread into neighbouring states, and which in part had also been engendered by the unwillingness of the newly-formed Eastern States Union, comprising numerous princely states, to submit to Praja Mandal demands for democratic representation in its governance. Thus, Nilgiri came under the aegis of the provincial government from November 1947 and within weeks all but two of the other garjat states - Saraikela and Kharsawan - had agreed to merge with the main Orissa province.\n\nProminent figures in the Orissa Praja Mandal movement included Sarangadhar Das, Baisnab Charan Patnaik, Pabitramohan Pradhan, Nabakrushna Choudhury and Kailas Chandra Mahonty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2870421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2870421", "title": "Principal Private Secretary", "text": "Principal Private Secretary\n\nIn the British Civil Service and Australian Public Service the Principal Private Secretary is the civil servant who runs a cabinet minister's private office. Persons holding this office in New Zealand go by the title Senior Private Secretary. The role can be a political appointment or a civil service position.\n\nIn India Principal Private Secretary is a Group A Gazetted Level officer that generally takes care of the office of an Additional Secretary to the Government of India.\n\nSenior Principal Private Secretary (Senior PPS) is a Senior Group A Gazetted Selection post one rank above Principal Private Secretary that takes care of the office of a Secretary to the Government of India India or the Equivalent Rank officer Member CBEC or Member Railway Board.\n\nP.S.O is Principal Staff Officer, a Senior Group A Gazetted Selection post one rank above Senior Principal Private Secretary that takes care of the office of a Secretary to the Government of India or an equivalently ranked Member of the Central Board for Excise and Customs, Member of the Railway Board, or the Chairman. Pay is equivalent to that of a Director to the Government of India.\nFor more information visit the official Government of India website.\n\nhttp://persmin.gov.in/dopt_csdivision_index.asp\n\nhttp://www.archive.india.gov.in/knowindia/profile.php?id=32\n\nA classic explanation is provided in the British sitcom \"Yes Minister\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2025055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025055", "title": "Quartet on the Middle East", "text": "Quartet on the Middle East\n\nThe Quartet on the Middle East or Middle East Quartet, sometimes called the Diplomatic Quartet or Madrid Quartet or simply the Quartet, is a foursome of nations and international and supranational entities involved in mediating the Israeli–Palestinian peace process. The Quartet comprises the United Nations, the United States, the European Union, and Russia. The group was established in Madrid in 2002, recalling Madrid Conference of 1991, as a result of the escalating conflict in the Middle East. The Quartet's current Special Envoy is Kito de Boer, who assumed the position after the resignation of Tony Blair in 2015.\n\nThe initiative to establish the Quartet evolved following the outbreak of the Second Intifada in September 2000 and the futile cease-fire attempts that followed. On October 25, 2001, representatives of the EU, UN and the US and Russian governments met Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and jointly expressed support for his policy of implementing cease-fire and security reforms in the Palestinian Authority. During the Israeli incursions into Palestinian areas in April 2002, the representatives of the same four entities met in Madrid and again called for implementation of cease-fire agreements brokered by the US government before. In the same meeting, they also agreed to transform their quadripartite cooperation into a permanent forum for follow-up of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.\n\nJames Wolfensohn, the former president of the World Bank, was appointed Special Envoy for Israel's disengagement from Gaza in April 2005. He stepped down the following year because of restrictions in dealing with the Islamic militant group Hamas and the withholding of money from the Palestinian Authority, risking its collapse.\n\nTony Blair announced that he had accepted the position of the official envoy of the Quartet, the same day he resigned as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and as a Member of Parliament on 27 June 2007. The approval came after initial objections by Russia. The United Nations were overseeing the finances and security of his mission, before his resignation on 27 May 2015.\n\nThe present special envoy from November 2015 is the Dutch national Kito de Boer. \n\nTony Blair periodically travelled to the Middle East following his appointment as Special Envoy. On a trip there in March 2008, he met with Israeli leaders to discuss recent violence. A planned meeting between Israeli and Palestinian businessmen was postponed due to recent fighting. In May 2008 Blair announced a new plan for peace and for Palestinian rights, based heavily on the ideas of the Peace Valley plan.\n\nIn an August 2009 interview, Blair said that he would like to see Hamas and Hezbollah included in peace talks but under the right conditions, that religious leaders should be more involved in the peace process, and that resolving the conflict could be easier than it was in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn a speech given in Israel on August 24, 2010, Blair sharply criticised the campaign of \"delegitimization\" being carried out by enemies of Israel and proponents of the Palestinians, which refuses to grant Israel its legitimate right to its own point of view and self-defense. \"Don't apply rules to the Government of Israel that you would never dream of applying to your own country,\" he said. He characterized such double standards and prejudice as being an \"affront to humanity\" which \"it is a democratic duty to counter.\"\n\n\nDespite the significance officially attached to the Quartet's part in promoting the peace process, many of its statements are merely repetition of previous statements and no significant changes in policy by either the Israeli government or the Palestinian Authority have occurred resulting from a Quartet meeting.\n\nThe Quartet has been fiercely criticized for its ineffectiveness. When Tony Blair held the function of Quartet representative, in December 2012, Palestinian officials said that \"Tony Blair shouldn't take it personally, but he should pack up his desk at the Office of the Quartet Representative in Jerusalem and go home. They said his job, and the body he represents, are ′useless, useless, useless′\".\n\nThe Center for Middle East Policy said in February 2012 that \"The Quartet has little to show for its decade-long involvement in the peace process. ... Having spent most of the last three years in a state of near paralysis, and having failed to dissuade the Palestinians from seeking UN membership and recognition in September 2011, the Quartet has finally reached the limits of its utility. ... The current mechanism is too outdated, dysfunctional, and discredited to be reformed. Instead of undertaking another vain attempt to 'reactivate' the Quartet, the United States, the European Union, United Nations, and Russia should simply allow the existing mechanism to go quietly into the night,\".\n\nThe Quartet's meetings have been held on the following dates:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1838510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838510", "title": "Rawalpindi conspiracy", "text": "Rawalpindi conspiracy\n\nThe Rawalpindi Conspiracy (also known as the Rawalpindi Conspiracy Case) was an attempted \"coup d'état\" against the government of Liaquat Ali Khan, the first Prime Minister of Pakistan, in 1951. The conspiracy was the first of many subsequent coup attempts against elected governments in the history of Pakistan. The coup was planned by Major-General Akbar Khan, a senior commander in the Pakistani army, in conjunction with other military officers and left-wing Pakistani politicians.\n\nMain causes of Rawaplindi conspiracy case (busted on 9 March 1951) were three. One, a general discontent of Army's Pakistani Officers with the performance of the Liaqat Ali Khan's Government, whom they thought of as corrupt and incompetent. Two, many of the high ranking Pakistani Generals viewed the continuing presence of British Army Officers in the army as a security threat, as well as an impediment to their speedy promotions. Third, and most immediate cause was their discontent with Liaqat regime's handling of the Kashmir war with India (1948). Army officers thought Government's acceptance of UN mediation and ceasefire, as a 'tame surrender' and 'flouting an opportunity to capture whole of Kashmir'. It is to be noted that several Pakistan Army officers who had fought the Kashmir war, were ethnic Kashmiris and owned land in the contested province. Maj. General Akbar Khan (who was the master mind behind the Rawalpindi Conspiracy) had communist leanings, which explains why he enlisted the support of communist/leftists intellectuals of Pakistan. e.g. Faiz Ahmed Faiz and Syed Sajjad Zaheer (Secretary General of Pakistan Communist Party). Whether USSR was actively involved in this conspiracy is not supported by any evidence. This conspiracy had no connection with Pakistan's joining SEATO or CENTO, as both these international bodies came into being much later (in 1954 and 1955, respectively).\n\nEleven military officers and four civilians were involved in the conspiracy. The main person responsible for planning the coup was Maj. Gen. Akbar Khan, the chief of general staff of the Pakistani army. During the 1947 war, Khan had led Pakistani forces under the pseudonym of \"General Tariq.\" He was based in the northern city of Rawalpindi, where the army headquarters were located, while the political capital of the state was in the southern city of Karachi at the time. The civilian conspirators included leading Pakistani poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz, who was notably active in left-wing politics and sympathetic to the Communist Party of Pakistan, and Sajjad Zaheer. Akbar Khan's wife, Naseem Shahnawaz Khan, was also believed to have motivated her husband to undertake this plot.\n\nThe conspiracy was foiled after the government was informed of the coup attempt by one of the confidantes of Akbar Khan. Government forces immediately arrested Maj. Gen. Akbar Khan and the other conspirators, including Faiz Ahmed Faiz. The army commander-in-chief, Gen. Muhammad Ayub Khan and the defence secretary Maj. Gen. Iskander Mirza had both remained loyal to the government. Ayub Khan immediately ordered the army troops to surround and take control of the army headquarters, where Maj. Gen. Akbar Khan was based. Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan announced the foiling of the coup on 9 March 1951. The government passed the Rawalpindi Conspiracy (Special Tribunal) Act to set up a special tribunal to investigate the conspiracy. A trial was held for the 15 individuals accused, namely – Maj. Gen. Akbar Khan, Air Commodore M. K. Janjua, Maj. Gen. Nazir Ahmed, Brigadier Sadiq Khan, Brigadier M. A. Latif Khan, Lt. Col. Zia-ud-Din, Lt. Col. Niaz Muhammad Arbab, Captain Khizar Hayat, Maj. Hassan Khan, Major Ishaq Muhammad, Captain Zafrullah Poshni, Mrs. Naseem Akbar Khan, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Syed Sajjad Zaheer and Muhammad Hussain Ata.\n\nAfter an 18-month trial conducted in secrecy, Maj. Gen. Khan and Faiz Ahmed Faiz were both convicted and sentenced to long terms of imprisonment. Their defence lawyer was the notable Bengali Muslim politician Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy. When Suhrawardy became the Prime Minister of Pakistan in 1957, he obtained a reprieve for most of the conspirators.\n\nMajor General Akbar Khan was soon rehabilitated in Pakistani political life, becoming an adviser to Pakistani politician Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Upon coming to power in 1971, Bhutto appointed Akbar Khan as the chief of national security. Faiz continued to publish many works of poetry, and was appointed to the National Council for Arts by the Bhutto government. Gen. Ayub Khan launched the first successful military coup against the government of President Iskander Mirza in 1958, assuming the reins of the presidency himself until 1969. Liaquat Ali Khan was assassinated later in 1951, in October, in an unrelated attack by an Afghan in Rawalpindi.\n"}
{"id": "23481965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23481965", "title": "Report about Case Srebrenica", "text": "Report about Case Srebrenica\n\nReport about Case Srebrenica (the first part) was a controversial official report on the July 1995 Srebrenica massacre in eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was prepared by Darko Trifunović and published by the Republika Srpska Government Bureau for Relations with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY).\n\nThe report denied that there had been a massacre at Srebrenica and accused the International Committee of the Red Cross of having \"fabricated\" its findings on the killings. Its claims were strongly criticised by the international community and the Bosniaks and were eventually disowned by the Republika Srpska government. In a judgment against Miroslav Deronjić, the Hague Tribunal judges described the report as \"one of the worst examples of revisionism.\" No \"second part\" has ever been published.\n\nIn July 1995, forces of the Army of the Republika Srpska (VRS) captured the town of Srebrenica in eastern Bosnia, which had been cut off and surrounded despite the presence of soldiers from the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). Thousands of refugees had crowded into the town to escape the Serb advance. Following the Serb takeover of Srebrenica, an estimated 8,000 Bosniak men and boys were systematically massacred by Serb forces between 11–15 July and another 25,000–30,000 were subjected to ethnic cleansing. It was the largest act of mass murder in Europe since World War II.\n\nSuccessive governments of Republika Srpska (and, for a while, Serbia) sought to deny the massacre and other war crimes committed by the VRS during the war. It was against this background that, as the former United Nations trial attorney Mark B. Harmon commented, \"the campaign of misinformation and deceit reached its apotheosis seven years after the crimes were committed with the publication of the \"Report About Case Srebrenica (the first part)\".\"\n\nThe report was promoted as an effort \"to present the whole truth about crimes committed in Srebrenica region regardless nationality of perpetrators of crimes and time when they were committed .\" It asserted that no more than 2,000 Bosniaks (Bosnian Muslims) had died at Srebrenica – all armed soldiers, not civilians – and that 1,600 of them had died in combat or while trying to escape the enclave. It consistently referred to the \"alleged massacre\", attributed the deaths of about 100 Bosniaks to \"exhaustion\" and concluded: \"the number of Muslim soldiers who were executed by Bosnian Serb forces for personal revenge or for simple ignorance of international law […] would probably stand less than 100.\" The report dismissed as \"mentally disturbed\" a Bosnian Serb soldier who had admitted participating in the killings, and claimed that the survivors' stories were a product of their imaginations: \"To walk for almost 20 days in an area that might be full of landmines, without any food and water, under the fear of being shot from any direction was such a trauma that soldiers sometimes mixed reality with illusions. Having looked at dead bodies under such psychological [pressure], some Muslim soldiers could have believed what they imagined.\" It asserted that \"this combat might have looked like a mass killing in the eyes of frightened Muslim soldiers, although they carried weapons and shot at Bosnian Serb soldiers randomly.\"\n\nThe report also asserted that the findings of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations had been \"manipulated\" and \"fabricated\". It characterised Serbs as the victims of Bosniak war crimes around Srebrenica, asserting that in 1992 and 1993 alone 1300 Serb civilians were killed. This figure has been shown to be inaccurate, and the true number \"three to nine times smaller\", by the Research and Documentation Center in Sarajevo, a non-partisan institution with a multi-ethnic staff, whose data have been collected, processed, checked, compared and evaluated by an international team of experts. The instigator of the massacre, General Ratko Mladić, was mentioned only in the context of demanding the surrender of the town and evacuating civilians; the report asserted that he had tried \"discouraging Serbs to take their wild revenge.\" The report claimed that \"the Muslims inflated the number [of deaths] in order to accomplish what they wanted from the very beginning – to involve the international community in the conflict with Serbs.\"\n\nAccording to Dejan Miletić, whom Paddy Ashdown, the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, removed in April 2004 from his post as Head of the Republika Srpska Secretariat for Relations with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague and Research of War Crimes, the report \"had based its conclusions on publications found on the Internet, reports from the United Nations and other sources.\" It was intended to be sent to lawyers defending Bosnian Serbs on trial for war crimes.\n\nThe ICTY reviewed the \"Report About Case Srebrenica\" and concluded the following:\n\nAfter the report was published on 3 September 2002, it was condemned by a wide variety of Bosnian and international figures. A spokesman for the ICTY told Radio Free Europe that \"any claim that the number of victims after the fall of the Srebrenica enclave was around the 2,000 mark, and most of those killed in battle, is an absolutely outrageous claim. It's utterly false, and it flies in the face of all of the evidence painstakingly collected in the investigation into the tragedy.\" He described the effort to minimise the number of victims as \"frankly, disgusting.\" Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of the ICTY, described the report's authors as \"totally blind, profoundly insensitive and clearly willing to obstruct all efforts to find reconciliation, truth and justice.\" Del Ponte's legal adviser, Jean-Jacques Joris, criticised the report as \"a saddening example of revisionism and an element which certainly stands in the way of reconciliation in the region.\" The ICTY prosecutors subsequently used the report as evidence in the trial in 2004 of Miroslav Deronjić; in their verdict, the judges called it \"one of the worst examples of revisionism in relation to [the massacre]\".\n\nPaddy Ashdown, the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, condemned it as \"tendentious, preposterous and inflammatory\" and \"so far from the truth as to be almost not worth dignifying with a response.\" His office issued a statement calling the report \"an irresponsible attempt to deceive voters and to abuse the trauma of massacre survivors\". Ashdown's spokesman, Julian Braithwaite, noted the report's publication just before elections in the Republika Srpska: \"The question for the RS government is why are they publishing this report now, at the time when it could be easily interpreted as irresponsible electioneering. If they are playing down the fact that civilians were massacred and that children are being exhumed from mass graves with their hands tied behind their backs, then that it is outrageous.\" The European Union issued a statement calling on \"all responsible people and institutions\" to reject the study. The International Commission on Missing Persons issued a strongly worded statement calling the report a gross distortion of the facts:\n\nThe British Foreign Office minister Denis MacShane condemned the report as \"an insult to the memory of those who died. The authors of this report belong in the same category as those who deny the Holocaust took place.\" The United States embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina urged the Republika Srpska government to withdraw the report, calling it \"an attempt to manipulate and divide the public in this country.\"\n\nBosnian media, political parties and Srebrenica survivors were likewise strongly critical. The Sarajevo-based newspaper \"Dnevni Avaz\" described the report as an attempt by the Bosnian Serb government to deny that genocide had taken place. The Srebrenica and Zepa Mothers Association condemned the report as \"false, shameful and utterly amoral.\" The Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina denounced it as \"yet another attempt by the Serb Republic authorities in an unscrupulous and brutal way to negate what probably is the worst crime in Europe after WW2.\"<ref name=\"OHR BiH 4/9/2002\"></ref> Alija Behmen, the Prime Minister of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, called it \"a surprising forgery which is trying to delude the public and especially the Serbs in BiH. I honestly believe that this is the last attempt to enliven the policy which marked the tragic past of BiH. Negating the genocide cannot be a part of the election campaign.\"\n\nOn the Bosnian Serb side, opinions of the report were initially favourable. The Bosnian Serb media largely supported the report, and Republika Srpska president Mirko Šarović (who in October 2002 became the Serb member of the collective presidency) said that the report \"should not be dismissed out of hand but merits careful study\". A number of Bosnian Serb political figures made public statements denying that war crimes had happened and a government spokesman called the report a bid to promote \"truth and reconciliation\". The Republika Srpska Socialist Party leader, Lazar Ristić, welcomed the report and accused the Bosniak side of having \"hitherto presented only false reports, in which names were listed of persons who are still alive today.\"\n\nNikola Špirić, the speaker of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, called it \"the worst election campaigning I have ever seen.\" Milorad Dodik, who was later to become prime minister of Republika Srpska, castigated the report as having been \"written by an amateur for the purpose of manipulating public opinion\" in advance of the elections and said:\n\nThe Republika Srpska government was, however, more equivocal. Its prime minister, Mladen Ivanić, accused the media in the Federation entity of having \"made [a] fuss over the report for their own purposes.\" Nonetheless, the outcry from the international community forced the government of Republika Srpska to distance itself from the report, saying that it had not been fully analysed and endorsed:\n\nThe Republika Srpska government subsequently disowned the report with Prime Minister Ivanić saying that it was an \"unfinished version\" and \"not an attitude of the government of Republika Srpska.\" Two years later, after further pressure from the international community, the Bosnian Serb government issued an official apology for the massacre and admitted that \"enormous crimes\" had been \"committed in the area of Srebrenica in July 1995.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2854906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854906", "title": "Secretariat of Economy (Mexico)", "text": "Secretariat of Economy (Mexico)\n\nIn Mexico, the Office for Economic Affairs (Spanish: \"Secretaría de Economía\"; abbreviated \"SE\") is the government department in charge of matters related to the economy. The Officer for Economic Affairs is a member of the federal executive cabinet appointed by the President of the Republic.\n\nUntil 2000 the name of the Office for Economic Affairs was the \"Office for Commerce and Industrial Development\" \"(SCFI)\" but that name was changed when Vicente Fox acceded to the Presidency. \n\nThe Director of Economic Affairs is Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal.\n\n"}
{"id": "274394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274394", "title": "Singing Revolution", "text": "Singing Revolution\n\nThe Singing Revolution is a commonly used name for events between 1987 and 1991 that led to the restoration of the independence of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The term was coined by an Estonian activist and artist, Heinz Valk, in an article published a week after the 10–11 June 1988, spontaneous mass evening singing demonstrations at the Tallinn Song Festival Grounds.\n\nAfter World War II, the Baltic states had been fully incorporated into the USSR after military occupation and annexation first in 1940 and then again in 1944. Mikhail Gorbachev introduced \"\"glasnost\" (openness) and \"perestroika\"\" (restructuring) in 1985, hoping to stimulate the failing Soviet economy and encourage productivity, particularly in the areas of consumer goods, the liberalisation of cooperative businesses and the service economy. Glasnost rescinded limitations on political freedoms in the Soviet Union which led to problems within the non-Russian nations occupied in the build-up to war in the 1940s.\n\nHitherto unrecognised issues previously kept secret by the Moscow government were admitted to in public, causing dissatisfaction within the Baltic states. Combined with the war in Afghanistan and the nuclear fallout in Chernobyl, grievances were aired in a publicly explosive and politically decisive manner. Estonians were concerned about the demographic threat to their national identity posed by the influx of individuals from foreign ethnic groups to work on such large Soviet development projects as phosphate mining.\n\nAccess to Western émigré communities abroad and, particularly in Estonia, informal relations with Finland and access to Finnish TV showing the Western lifestyle also contributed to widespread dissatisfaction with the Soviet system and provoked mass demonstrations as repression on dissidents, nationalists, religious communities and ordinary consumers eased substantially towards the end of the 1980s.\n\nMassive demonstrations against the Soviet regime began after widespread liberalisation of the regime failed to take into account national sensitivities. It was hoped by Moscow that the non-Russian nations would remain within the USSR despite the removal of restrictions on freedom of speech and national icons (such as the local pre-1940 flags). However, the situation deteriorated to such an extent that by 1989 there were campaigns aimed at freeing the nations from the Soviet Union altogether.\n\nThe Soviet government's plan to excavate phosphorite in the Lääne-Viru County with potentially catastrophic consequences for the environment and the society was revealed in February 1987. That started the Phosphorite War public environmental campaign. The MRP-AEG group held the Hirvepark meeting in the Old Town of Tallinn at the anniversary of Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact on 23 August 1987, demanding to disclose and condemn its secret protocol.\n\nThe \"Five Patriotic Songs\" series by Alo Mattiisen premiered at the Tartu Pop Festival in May 1988. In June the Old Town Festival was held in Tallinn, and after the official part of the festival, the participants moved to the Song Festival Grounds and started to sing patriotic songs together spontaneously. The Baltic Way, a human chain of two million people spanned from Tallinn to Vilnius on 23 August 1989. Mattiisen's \"Five Patriotic Songs\" were performed again at the Rock Summer festival in Tallinn held on 26–28 August 1988. The Song of Estonia festival was held at the Song Festival Grounds on 11 September. Trivimi Velliste, Chairman of the Estonian Heritage Society first voiced the public ambition to regain independence. The Supreme Soviet of Estonia issued the Estonian Sovereignty Declaration on 16 November.\n\nThe Singing Revolution lasted over four years, with various protests and acts of defiance. In 1991, as Soviet tanks attempted to stop the progress towards independence, the Supreme Soviet of Estonia together with the Congress of Estonia proclaimed the restoration of the independent state of Estonia and repudiated Soviet legislation. People acted as human shields to protect radio and TV stations from the Soviet tanks. Through these actions Estonia regained its independence without any bloodshed.\n\nIndependence was declared on the late evening of 20 August 1991, after an agreement between different political parties was reached. The next morning Soviet troops, according to Estonian TV, attempted to storm Tallinn TV Tower but were unsuccessful. The Communist hardliners' coup attempt failed amidst mass pro-democracy demonstrations in Moscow led by Boris Yeltsin.\n\nOn 22 August 1991, Iceland became the first nation to recognise the newly restored independence of Estonia. Today, a plaque commemorating this event is situated on the outside wall of the Foreign Ministry, which itself is situated on Islandi väljak 1, or \"Iceland Square 1\". The plaque reads; \"The Republic of Iceland was the first to recognise, on 22 August 1991, the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia\", in Estonian, Icelandic and English. Some other nations did not recognise the annexation of Estonia by the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring the second half of the 1980s as Mikhail Gorbachev introduced glasnost and perestroika in the USSR, which rolled back restrictions to freedom in the Soviet Union, aversion to the Soviet regime had grown into the third Latvian National Awakening, which reached its peak in mid-1988.\n\nIn 1986, it became widely known to the public that the USSR was planning to build another hydroelectric power plant on Latvia's largest river Daugava, and that a decision had been made to build a metro in Riga. Both of these projects planned by Moscow could have led to the destruction of Latvia's landscape and cultural and historical heritage. In the press journalists urged the public to protest against these decisions. The public reacted immediately, and in response the Environmental Protection Club was founded on 28 February 1987. During the second half of the 1980s the Environmental Protection Club became one of the most influential mass movements in the region and began to make demands for the restoration of Latvia's independence.\n\nOn 14 June 1987, the anniversary of the 1941 deportations, the human rights group \"Helsinki-86\", which had been founded a year earlier, organised people to place flowers at the Freedom Monument (Latvia's symbol of independence, which was erected in 1935). This is widely cited as the beginning of the National Awakening. However the Latvian Song and Dance Festival of 1985 also had been sometimes named for choirs requesting and performing the song \"Gaismas pils\" conducted by Haralds Mednis after the main event. The song, which speaks about the rebirth of a free Latvian nation, usually a staple of the festival, had been removed from the repertoire and the conductor, disliked by Soviet authorities, sidelined.\n\nOn 1 and 2 June 1988, the Writers' Union held a congress during which the democratisation of society, Latvia's economic sovereignty, the cessation of immigration from the USSR, the transformation of industry and the protection of Latvian language rights were discussed by delegates. Over the course of this conference, for the first time in post-war Latvia, the secret protocol of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which had determined Latvia's fate after 1939, was publicly acknowledged.\n\nThe congress of the Writers' Union stirred up public opinion and provided an additional stimulus for the general process of national revival.\n\nIn the summer of 1988, two of the most important organisations of the revival period began to assemble themselves—the Latvian People's Front and the Latvian National Independence Movement (LNIM). Soon afterwards the more radically inclined Citizens' Congress called for complete non-compliance with the representatives of the Soviet regime. All of these organisations had a common goal: the restoration of democracy and independence. On 7 October 1988, there was a mass public demonstration, calling for Latvia's independence and the establishment of regular judicial order. On 8 and 9 October the first congress of the Latvian People's Front was held. This organisation, which attracted 200,000 members, became the main representative of the return to independence.\n\nOn 23 August 1989, the fiftieth anniversary of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the People's Fronts of all three Baltic countries held a huge demonstration of unity—the \"Baltic Way\". A long human \"chain\" from Tallinn through Riga to Vilnius was assembled. This was a symbolic demonstration of the people's call for independence from the Soviet Union.\n\nNew elections to the Supreme Soviet took place on 18 March 1990, in which the supporters of independence gained a victory. On 4 May 1990, the new Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR adopted a motion, \"Declaration of Independence\", which called for the restoration of the inter-war Latvian state and the 1922 Constitution.\n\nIn January 1991, however, pro-communist political forces attempted to restore Soviet power. With the use of force, attempts were made to overthrow the new assembly. Latvian demonstrators managed to stop the Soviet troops from re-occupying strategic positions, and these events are known as the \"Days of the Barricades\".\n\nOn 19 August 1991, an unsuccessful attempt at a coup d'état took place in Moscow when a small group of prominent Soviet functionaries failed to regain power due to large pro-democracy demonstrations in Russia. This event resulted in Latvia swiftly moving toward independence. After the coup's failure the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian Republic announced on 21 August 1991, that the transition period to full independence declared on 4 May 1990 had come to an end. Therefore, Latvia was proclaimed a fully independent nation whose judicial foundation stemmed back to the statehood that existed before the occupation on 17 June 1940.\n\nThousands of people regularly gathered in public places across Lithuania and sang national songs and Roman Catholic hymns. The popularity of patriotic songs had risen significantly during this period. Many popular singers had followed this trend, often using the poetry of nationalist poets, such as Bernardas Brazdžionis or Justinas Marcinkevičius as the lyrics of their songs. Rock March also promoted awareness of the issue among the people.\n\nOn 3 June 1988, the Sąjūdis, a political and social movement to lead the independence and pro-democracy movement, was established.\n\nThe active nationalist opposition towards the regime culminated in the return of Vilnius Cathedral, formerly used as a museum of fine arts, to the Catholic community on 21 October 1988, followed by the gradual restoration of national symbols, which included the erection or restoration of independence monuments throughout the country. The national anthem of Lithuania and the traditional national Tricolore were legalised in Lithuania on 18 November 1988, officially replacing the flag and the anthem of the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nFive decades after Lithuania was occupied and incorporated into the Soviet Union, Lithuania became the first republic to declare its independence from the USSR on 11 March 1990, and was later followed by Latvia and Estonia. However, almost all nations in the international community, except Iceland, hesitated to recognise independence for Lithuania until August 1991.\n\nThe Soviet military responded harshly. On 13 January 1991, fourteen non-violent protesters in Vilnius died and hundreds were injured defending the Vilnius Television Tower and the Parliament from Soviet assault troops and tanks. Lithuanians referred to the event as Bloody Sunday. The discipline and courage of its citizens—linking arms and singing in the face of tanks and armour-piercing bullets—avoided a much greater loss of life and showed the world that Lithuania's citizens were prepared to defend national independence.\n\nThe international governments recognised Lithuanian independence after the failure of the coup d'état in August 1991.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3912675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3912675", "title": "Small Arms Working Group", "text": "Small Arms Working Group\n\nThe Small Arms Working Group(SAWG) is an alliance of US-based non-governmental groups working together to promote change in US and international policies on small arms. SAWG members believe that small arms proliferation must be countered by more responsible policies on legal sales and international co-operation to reduce illicit trafficking. Participation in SAWG is open to any organizations that support its objectives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54063128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54063128", "title": "Social construction of the body", "text": "Social construction of the body\n\nThe social construction of the body is a hypothesis that affirms that the relationship between the body and the socio-cultural context occurs in both senses, and that society and culture influence the formation of its members to some extent. The body has become a social construction, in whose delimitation have participated multiple disciplines. Thus, medicine and religion can be mentioned as the agents that have traditionally influenced, together with the rules of urbanity and educational institutions. These four agents have been building a model, which every individual has as reference. According to Bryan S. Turner, the social construction of the body is: \"The nearest and immediate feature of my social self, a necessary feature of my social situation and my personal identity, and at the same time an aspect of my personal alienation in the natural environment\"\n"}
{"id": "8717937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8717937", "title": "Socialist Lebanon", "text": "Socialist Lebanon\n\nSocialist Lebanon () was a small Arab nationalist group in Lebanon. The group was formed in 1965 by people like Ahmed Beydoun, Waddah Sharara and Fawwaz Trabulsi.\n\nIn 1970 the group merged with the Organization of Lebanese Socialists, and formed the Communist Action Organization in Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "20953176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20953176", "title": "Take Back the Land", "text": "Take Back the Land\n\nTake Back the Land is an American organisation based in Miami, Florida devoted to blocking evictions, and rehousing homeless people in foreclosed houses. Take Back the Land was formed in October 2006 to build the Umoja Village Shantytown on a plot of unoccupied land to protest gentrification and a lack of low-income housing in Miami. The group began opening houses in October 2007 and moved six homeless families into vacant homes in 2008. By April 2009, the group had moved 20 families into foreclosed houses. , the group had ten volunteers. Take Back the Land volunteers break into the houses, clean, paint and make repairs, change the locks, and help move the homeless families in. They provide supplies and furniture and help residents turn on electricity and water. Though the occupations are of contested legality, local police officers were not intervening, judging it to be the responsibility of house owners to protect their property or request assistance.\n\nThe group advocates for changes in governmental housing policy. Max Rameau, the homeless advocate running the program, called it \"morally indefensible to have vacant homes sitting there, potentially for years, while you have human beings on the street\". Rameau says that the group only moves families into government- or bank-owned properties, and argues that it is not fair for the banks to be receiving government bailouts while keeping these assets.\n\nRameau states that having people occupy the buildings helps the owners by preventing looting and property destruction that he says would likely happen to unoccupied buildings. He also says that the group requires that tenants get electricity and provides solar panels if the electricity does not work. Take Back the Land activists help maintain and clean the yards of the squatted houses, and they give the families cleaning supplies and furniture. The group gains access to unoccupied houses, paints and cleans them, changes the locks, and connects electricity and water. Rameau says each occupation costs the group $200. Take Back the Land instructs tenants of the houses to occupy the houses openly; they enter and leave through the front door, pay for utilities in their own names, and are honest with neighbors. The families live in the houses they occupy until they either save up enough money to afford to pay for housing or are forcibly evicted by police.\n\nThe group maintains a waiting list of families who would like to move into foreclosed homes. Rameau says tenants are carefully chosen in order to avoid creating crack houses; drug addicts are rejected, and participants are assessed for their \"urgency of need\".\n\nAccording to Rameau, he had approached banks in 2008 with the idea of buying them for a discount price and renting them to homeless people; they seemed interested at first but he says they stopped calling him back after the 2008 federal bailout was announced.\n\nTake Back the Land uses illegal tactics. The group commits trespassing and tenants could be charged with crimes such as vandalism. Rameau says, \"there's a disconnect between the need and the law. Being arrested is just one of the potential factors in doing this.\" The tenants are told that they may be arrested if caught. Take Back the Land has a pro-bono lawyer on standby. Kelly Penton, a spokeswoman for the city of Miami, said that the city was not taking action to stop Take Back the Land's activities stating that \"it is up to the property owner\". , police had not gotten involved.\n\nTake Back the Land was originally formed in 2006 as an anti-gentrification organization inspired by the Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil and the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign in South Africa. The group built the Umoja Village in Miami in 2006, a shantytown on an undeveloped lot in support of the \"black community's right to own land\". Fifty homeless people lived in the village. After the village burned down in April 2007, the group moved 14 of the ex-residents into a warehouse. Max Rameau released a book detailing the experience entitled \"Take Back the Land: Land, Gentrification and the Umoja Village Shantytown\".\n\nPartly due to overbuilding and speculation, Florida, and particularly Miami, have been affected by the housing crisis in the late 2000s recession. In September 2008, Florida had the second highest rate of foreclosures in the country.\n\nTake Back the Land moved the first family into an unoccupied house on October 22, 2007. By November 2008, it had opened up six houses, and by April 2009, the group had moved 20 families into foreclosed homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1624466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624466", "title": "Thorolf Rafto Memorial Prize", "text": "Thorolf Rafto Memorial Prize\n\nThe Professor Thorolf Rafto Memorial Prize (\"Raftoprisen\") is a human rights award established in the memory of the Norwegian human rights activist, Thorolf Rafto. \n\nThe prize is awarded annually by the Rafto Foundation for Human Rights (\"Raftostiftelsen\") which was founded in the humanistic tradition of the Helsinki Accords in order to promote the fundamental human rights of intellectual and political freedom. Today, the foundation is based at the Human Rights House in Bergen, Norway. The major work of the foundation, including the organization of the award ceremony is done by a small team of professional staff and volunteers. The award ceremony takes place at Den Nationale Scene in Bergen annually in November.\n\nThe initial idea of the Rafto Prize was to provide a basic informative platform for the laureates that would help to receive further attention from the international media and support from political and non-political organisations. By awarding the Rafto Prize, the Rafto Foundation for Human Rights seeks to bring attention to independent voices that due to oppressive and corruptive regimes are not always heard. For example, four Rafto Laureates have subsequently received further international assistance and were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Aung San Suu Kyi, José Ramos-Horta, Kim Dae-jung and Shirin Ebadi were awarded the Rafto Prize prior to the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nThorolf Rafto was a professor of Economic History at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration (NHH). He was also well known for his political activism in Eastern Europe, especially in Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland. During a visit to Prague in 1979 to hold a lecture for students excluded from universities for political reasons. Rafto was arrested and beaten by the communist security police which may have resulted in injuries which weakened his health. On 4 November 1986 Thorolf Rafto died.\n\nHis friends and colleagues agreed to establish a foundation that would continue Rafto's work such as promotion of freedom of speech and political expression in Eastern Europe. It was also decided to introduce a prize for human right activists. The fall of the Iron Curtain and consequential democratization of Eastern European states led to a reconsideration the mission of the foundation. Meanwhile it had opened new possibilities to work with other geographical regions in a promotion of human rights. Already in 1990, the Rafto Prize was awarded to a Burmese democratic leader, Aung San Suu Kyi who, in the following year 1991, received the Nobel Peace Prize for her non-violent struggle for democracy and human rights. For the first years, the foundation was based at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration. From 1997, the Rafto Foundation was relocated to the Human Rights House of Bergen, Norway.\n\nThe Rafto Prize is awarded annually on the first Sunday in November and since 1990, the official ceremony takes place at the National Theatre of Bergen. Among the invited guests are representatives from Bergen municipality and the Norwegian government, academics, supporters and partners of the Rafto Foundation and family members of the Rafto family.\n\nThe annual deadline for nominations is 1 April. Voluntary organisations, institutions and individuals worldwide, with knowledge or interest in human rights are allowed to nominate candidates for the Rafto Prize. Former recipients of the prize can also nominate candidates, although candidates who are nominated by themselves or by their staff or by honorary officers will not be taken into consideration. After the deadline, all applications are carefully considered by the prize committee and the final decision is usually released at the press conference at Rafto House in September.\n\n"}
{"id": "34067867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34067867", "title": "Young voter turnout in Canada", "text": "Young voter turnout in Canada\n\nVoter turnout in Canada is lowest for young voters. A general decline in electoral participation among the under-35 population has been observed in many democratic countries around the world, especially in Canada. \"The youngest age cohort did experience a bump upwards in estimated voter turnout from 37% in the 2004 federal general election to 43.8% for the election that followed, before descending to 37.4% for the 2008 federal general election.\" Participation in provincial elections for youth aged 18 to 24 was 28% in 2001. However, in the 2005 provincial election, the turnout in this age group increased to 35%. Evidently, low voter turnout of young Canadians has generated a great deal of concern.\n\n\"Detailed analyses of electoral participation since the 1968 federal election indicate that much of the decline has been driven by generational replacement.\"\n\nIndeed, the differences in electoral participation across age groups can be seen as a generation gap phenomenon. \"The rate of voter participation declines steadily as one moves from the oldest to the youngest age cohorts.\" The study by Jon H. Pammett and Lawrence LeDuc employed by Elections Canada reveals just how large the gap between the youngest and oldest voters has become. One explanation for this phenomenon is that one's age can affect one's view as to the relevance of the issues that typically dominate the political agenda. The trend analysis demonstrates that the generation gap applies to specific political issues. \"Views on school integration proved the exception to the rule, an exception that is explicable in terms of massive period effects and possibly life-cycle effects operating on the young.\"\n\nThe proportion of Canadians under 15 years of age dropped from 32.5% in 1941 to 17.6% in 2006. In 2015, a statistical milestone was reached, in which the proportion of Canadians over 64 (5.78 million) topped the proportion of those under 15 (5.75 million),as reported by the Star.\n\nYounger Canadians tend to be less interested in politics: Only one in 20 Canadians between 18 and 30 years of age (in 2000) had ever belonged to a political party, compared with one-third of those over age 60. There is concern whether a failure to engage younger Canadians early will have a detrimental effect on our democracy over time. \"There is no question that over the past two decades, we have seen youth voting rates declining at a precipitous rate to the point where clear majorities of the younger generations don't vote and may well never do so.\"\n\nWe might wonder why the youth are not very interested in more traditional types of political participation. Stephen P. Nicholson uses Ricker's suggestion that the outcome of a vote may depend on the agenda. What type of agenda settings are shaping young Canadians? What is the trend in youth civic and political engagement in Canada? To what degree do political activities influence young Canadian voters? How do social differences influence the structure of society? An analysis of basic theoretical reasons behind the low voter turnout of young Canadians was done based on quantitative and qualitative research. The analysis reported some factors that contributed to the unwillingness of youth to vote and to participate in democracy: 1. Social Factors, different implications of youth values from older generation. 2. Institutional Factor, differences in Political discourses. It will highlight demographic trends in Canada and have created this new fixation on age as a major determinant of political participation and public policy. Also, what is the role of newspaper to engage with the young voters? There is no particular reason to attribute low voter turnout to any one factor, though some factors may be more important than others.\n\nCanadian electoral participants attribute \"turnout decline to negative public attitudes toward the performance of the politicians and political institutions involved in federal politics.\" \"When it came to the question of asking whether politics is a way for the powerful to themselves or, instead, a way for the less powerful to compete on equal footing, more respondents in both countries chose the cynical view.\" A survey done across the nation shows a clear plurality: 49% disapprove of the way Stephen Harper, Prime Minister and leader of Conservative Party of Canada, is handling his job compared to Barack Obama, President of The United States, whose disapproval rate is 12%. Since voting is evidently central to citizens' politics in representative democracies, it is unsurprising that young participants' attitudes to politics were partly shaped by their perceptions of their position in relation to this most basic of political citizenship rights. Indeed, Synthesis Report by Canadian Policy Research Networks reports that youths do not tend to connect the role of government with the issues they think are important.\n\nThere are roughly four times as many votes registered by seniors than by younger voters. This effect is compounded by dramatic differences in political preferences with seniors being more than twice as likely to favour conservative choices than younger voters. \"In a decade or two, the younger voters will be in the prime of their lives and paying for the political choices of their now departed grandparents which are not likely to reflect the priorities or, one could speculate, the needs of next Canada.\" In other words, this phenomenon is age-related, as there are variations in the personal relevance of the issues that typically dominate the political discourse. Disengagement from the political agenda setting becomes significant as the age of our population rises, but their relative clout has been dramatically magnified by the declining voting rates of younger citizens. The commentary on youth disengagement suggests that \"young Canadians are turned off by electoral politics because party platforms and party leaders pay too little attention to the issues that really concerned younger citizens.\" Nanos Research conducted a survey for individuals aged 18 years or older between August 13 and September 30, 2011, to question, \"What is your most important PROVINCIAL issue of concern?\" And the research data identifies they mostly concern the health 26.4% from February 2010, 23.2%. And only 16% of those named job/economy as their second most important. The number one issue for young Canadians was health. Another survey was conducted by Elections Canada to pinpoint the most important issue in the election and Canadians aged 18 to over 60 were asked to select the issue that was most important to them personally. One of the common issues was health. Indeed, a striking finding from the survey data is how similar the priorities of Canadians are, regardless of their age. Evidently, Ekos Politics constructed a survey in October 2010 that asked which party you would vote for if a federal election were held tomorrow. The result of Ontario vote intention was Progressive Conservative Party 36.0% and Liberal 34.2% second. However, a year later, the new data justified an adjustment in Ontario 2011 Election from PC 34.0% to Liberal 38.6% since the 2010 elections.\nAccording to \"Ekos Politics\", they predicted, \"a Liberal majority government, though we observed a last-minute shift to the Progressive Conservative Party, and cautioned that the final outcome was far from certain.\" The end result of the Ontario election evaluates the notion that people's involvement in alternative political behaviour is central to assessing their level of political interest.\n\n\"Political knowledge is a democratic value. It is also an important ingredient in democratic citizenship, influencing public attitudes and opinions and, thus political behaviour.\" Young Canadians display a pattern of civic and political engagement that differentiates them from other aged groups. According to Henry Milner, the political knowledge centralizes to the young voter decline. Brenda O'Neil supports Milner's analysis by saying, \"counterintuitively, cynicism toward government and the political system is generally lower among young Canadians than among older ones, and have greater confidence in party leaders and candidates than older generations. Both Milner and O'Neil argue young voter participants have a strong engagement towards the effects on political knowledge. \"Voters' lack of political information raises important concerns about contemporary democratic practices.\" A non-voting or alternative activity \"can be a valuable source of political education [which develops] politically relevant knowledge, awareness, understanding and skills.\" This opens to investigate links with communication insights and the knowledge gap. \"First, respondents' knowledge of candidates' and parties' issue positions are key indicators of information gains registered during the course of a campaign.\" The role of Civic education class is a unique source to inform political parties and government. Taking an education class foreground the young Canadians to engage on an array of important public issues. The identification of political party defines as '\"the psychological feeling of attachment of a political party.\" The authors of the Sourcebook made it clear that party identification \"is to be distinguished from such behavior as party registration for primary elections or voting for candidates of a particular party.\" For instance, in Ontario in 2000 began to educate civic education to inform political backgrounds.\n\nAccordingly, \"Policy Horizons Canada\" presents today's young people's interest and statistics of priority in regards to their lives. \"Today's young people continue to place a high value on family and work and do not reject the political system in which they live, nor do they demonstrate a massive lack of interest in politics.\" They add, \"census research indicates that youths consider education to be of the utmost importance in opening doors for future employment and assisting them to integrate into society.\" \n\n\"Community involvement connected to political engagement.\"\n\nParticularly, Canadian society is structured based on shared values of family, education, work, the democratic system as well as bilingualism and multiculturalism. Significantly, young adults have differences in values due to educational differences. In addition to educational differences, the globalization in Canada has had a significant effect as well. Globalization traces with trade and cultural exchanges, which expanded to experience international adaptability and web engines to explore differences. \"These trends may potentially have an impact on what is valued by youth, such as bilingualism (and even multilingualism) multiculturalism.\" Perhaps, immigrants' population presents the possibility of changes in youth values as well. In terms of immigrants' population, Citizenship and Immigration Canada categorizes permanent immigrants in Canada by using statistical tables and charts. \"Three basic categories of permanent residents, which correspond to major program objectives: reuniting families, contributing to economic development and protecting refugees. Such number of ethnic groups was verified by the statistics of Canada. And age and source areas are categorized to permanent young immigrant residents.Statistically, a top rated ethnic group aged from 15 to 24 years was Asian young immigrants, 65,817 and Africa and the Middle East, 33,239 in second. Furthermore, economic immigrants, aged from 15 to 24 years are Asians, the highest, 62,825 among all aged groups from 0 to 65 years of age or more. Based on the statistics of young immigrants explain the value of multiculturalism is prominent in Canada. \"Since urbanization and ethnic diversification in Canadian society result in exposure to different cultures, they many also affect youth values.\" The result of multiethnic immigrants centralizes multicultural society.\n\n\"Nearly 7 in 10 university-educated young adults participate in non-voting political behaviour.\" \nThe other profile of youth value is constructed by status and socialization. As young generation socializes most of the time, it gradually constructs a self-identity. \"Policy Horizons Canada\" states \"the values of 14 to 19 year old, has formulated a theory that values are first structured at the beginning of adolescence, when there is an initial distancing from the family home, then a second period where the development of values is affected by educational success.\" Gradually, self-identity shapes in transition to adulthood. In terms of adulthood, young adults' value shift based on experience, a discrepancy between their values and those of society's institutions. Today's young adults are incentives for social and economic factors. CLC President Ken Geogetti was commenting in regards to the latest release from Statistics Canada of its Labour Force Survey for September 2011 that \"Too many of our young workers are unemployed, too many of them are stuck in part-time jobs and Ottawa should be paying particular attention to them.\" Because there were 1,334,200 unemployed Canadians in September and the unemployment rate was 7.1%. While the labour market created a significant number of jobs in September, the unemployment rate among workers aged 15 to 24 was 14.0%, and 48.2% of young workers are employed only part-time.\" As Frank Graves, reporter of \"Ekos Politic\"s adds, \"We have already seen a run-up in the stock market. Growth may come back later next year, while unemployment is likely to continue getting worse for some time after that.\" The factual information about economic status persists young adults to consider lower unemployment rates than voting. Personal reasons come first than voting as Gloria Galloway from \"The Globe And Mail\" comments, \"But many of the respondents also cited personal circumstances. They were too busy, they said, with work, school or family.\" Respondents from age 22 to 29 with household income of under $20,000 showed less voting behaviour than did those with household income of $60,000 or more. Results show that young voters hold a different set of priorities than their older cohorts. The young adults in low-income households had \"almost 50% lower odds of voting than those in high-income households.\" \"Low income was also a predictor of not voting.\" \"You might add the 22.9% (of non-voters) who claimed to be \"too busy\" to vote\"\n\nHow demographic of young voter turnouts emerging ethnic diversification factor? \"We know that youth are not a monolithic group and have, like older Canadians, multiple identities, but public policies do not adequately respond to their diverse realities and identities.\" The quotation shows that ethnic diversity strongly engages with unengaged young people from immigrant families who have their own identity. And the statistics of number of immigrants prove that social differences affect young voter declines. It also demonstrates the impact of differences of social class, gender and educational experiences in shaping young people's political orientations and knowledge.\n\nBased on the agenda-setting writing, Robert Hackett, \"The News Media and Civic Equality: Watch dogs Mad dogs or Lap Dogs: Democratic Equality: What went wrong?\" explains the media's agenda-setting role is a by-product of our collective dependence on mass media for information beyond our direct experience. In other words, political agenda setting in newspaper proposes a specific media's ideology, and characteristics of agenda settings. For that reason, it is prominent to examining a newspaper by understanding the idea of ritual communication that James Carey argues. The idea of ritual communication refers \"the transmission of signals or messages over distance for the purpose of control.\" He suggests that communication explicitly demonstrates culture. That is, the key role of political agenda-setting proposes that projection of community centralizes the role of culture and a ritual view of communication.\n\nIn the original Chapel Hill study and many of the studies that have followed, both the media agenda and the public agenda consisted of a set of objects, public issues. However, as Stephen P. Nicholson mentions in Voting The Agenda that McCombs and Shaw (1972) were the first to examine the agenda-setting effect of media on public sphere. Nicholson noted that McCombs and Shaw examined the 1968 US presidential campaign as their setting, and as a result, the authors found that the mass media, as measured by content analysis of media coverage, had a substantial impact on the public's agenda. Nicholson continually demonstrates examples of Lyengar and Kinder (1987), drawing on both experimental and quasi-experimental designs, and also found that media coverage of issues had a significant agenda-setting effect. In what terms are political agenda settings affecting the public through the Canadian newspapers? In the guise of contributing to political agenda settings, the newspapers conduct positive and negative arguments of specific national objects, such as politics, to create specific newspaper advocates. \"Newspapers everywhere were now engaged in the hunt for popularity. Contemporaries noted the declining importance of the editorial page in the typical newspaper.\" For instance, \"most major newspapers endorsed the Conservatives, and none solely endorsed the Liberals or Greens. However Canada's highest circulated newspaper, the Toronto Star, advised to vote against the Conservatives.\" Then it problematizes the range of newspapers covering stories.\n\nThe core vision of Toronto Star aims to engage \"in the full and frank dissemination of news and opinion, and to do so working within the highest standards of journalistic integrity. In reporting news and opinion, the Star seeks to inform the public of the significant and interesting events of the day, with particular emphasis on politics and public affairs.\" which the values established by Joseph E. Atkinson, according to Toronto Star Statement of Principles. In addition, Joseph E. Atkinson comments that the principles of The Star are: \"A strong and united Canada, civic engagement, individual and civil liberties, a necessary role for effective government and the rights of working people.\" Atkinson's principles emerge as critical of liberal endorsement in the Canadian context. For instance, The Star paper \"usually endorses the Liberal Party federally. The Star was the only major daily to do so in the 2006 and the 2008 federal elections while many of the other major papers endorsed the Conservatives. The Star endorsed the social democratic New Democratic Party (NDP) leader Ed Broadbent in 1979 and Progressive Conservative leader Robert Stanfield in 1972. The paper endorsed the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario in many of the provincial elections from the 1940s to the 1980s, and endorsed strategic voting to defeat Mike Harris in 1999.\" The Star traced the role of speaking civil rights of working people and individuals by endorsing the NDP for the 2011 federal election. The Star states, \"The platform the NDP offers voters is ambitious and puts people first. It focuses on seniors, health care and the environment…The NDP has never felt the discipline of power at the national level, and it shows.\" The Star criticized the Liberal Party's campaign under Michael Ignatieff has developed took everyone by surprise, which it was the biggest disappointment ever. Indeed, \"The Star\" concludes with \"voters who believe Canada should aspire to something greater than the crabbed, narrow vision offered by the Harper Conservatives should look to Jack Layton and the New Democrats on Monday.\" Results show that Jack Layton was covered much more positively than Conservative and Liberal. The findings also show that respondents linked in the hunt for popularity.\n\nA discourse of \"The Globe and Mail\" focuses exclusively on voice of the High Class elites agenda issues such as \"the Bay Street financial community of Toronto and the intellectuals of university and government institutions.\" \"The Globe\" prevails the range of offerings to attract elites, well educated, and comfortably well-off high-income audience, whom numbered among the nation's agenda setters. The Globe endorses Stephen Harper's Conservative administration since 2008 federal election and 2011 federal elections. \"The Globe and Mail\" viewed \"Mr. Harper has governed moderately and competently for nearly three years. He has not taken the country in dangerous new directions or significantly eroded the capacity of the government to act, when necessary, in the public interest.\" Globe also adds \"Indeed, the most important characteristic Mr. Harper has shown over 33 months in office is a capacity to grow. There is no reason to think he won't continue along the same trajectory if re-elected — a good thing, too, since there is much more for him to learn.\" The basis of right wing editorial by The Globe, they praises opinion makers support Conservatives' ambitious efforts to cover their campaigns on newspapers.\n\nThe corresponding of ideology in the Canadian newspapers and young Canadians are not relevantly sharing equal beliefs or information in terms of democracy society. In at least two aspects, the Canadian newspapers obstacle in their duty to foster Young Canadians of voting act: first, the numbers of young Canadian newspaper readerships are very low. Marshall McLuhan said, \"People don't actually read newspapers.\" Statistically, 68% of adults 18-34 read last weekday issue of their community newspapers, compared to only 34% read their last weekday daily newspaper based on Canada demographics conducted by ComBase. In addition to statistics of young adults readership, Tiffany Conroy from Canadian Community Newspapers Association adds,\"23% of adults 18-24 read any community newspaper last week, but did not read any daily newspaper.\" A result of not reading daily newspaper is very hard to retain exclusive issues. The issue of not reading daily newspaper has strong relations to less engaged to act of voting. \"The newspaper is the direct result of a national campaign by publishers, known as \"Newspapers in Education\" (NIE) according to Nola Kortner Aiex. As American Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation proposes \"The Newspaper as an Effective Teaching Tool\" (1981) explains the intent of the program and provides a variety of classroom activities using newspapers.\" The role of newspaper is significantly used for young adults as Aiex debates on Using Newspapers as Effective Teaching Tool. \nSecond, the newspapers allow political debate to be monopolized by ideologues who adhere dogmatically to their respective political catechisms. As Robert A. Hackett argues the notions like propaganda and indoctrination are implied to manipulate and persuade in news media. Based on the evidence of The Star and Globe political agenda-settings presented, it would be premature to talk of a crisis of representing election campaign. \"We cover the campaigns more than the election. We cover the narrative of the day-to-day event. We cover the news. The problem is there isn't actually whole a lot of news in the campaign.\" declared Andre Coyne, national editor, \"MacLean\"'s magazine who discussed newspaper coverage of the election campaign including narrative-setting, agendas, bias, and spin on September 27th 2011 at University of Toronto, St.Michael's College class with Dr. Gerald Caplan, political columnist at \"Globe and Mail.\" They also argued that a lot of coverage unfortunately is aimed at political gentlemen. Moreover, they talked about how well newspapers are focusing the issues of election campaigns. The fact is that young Canadians tend to be committed to their own structured democracy which differs from that of the parent generations. \"The differences can mainly be seen in the ways that today's youth engage in politics, which is primarily through non-electoral activities.\" Conceptual links between young Canadian values and Canadian newspapers are not contributed to social cohesion, depending on the degree of difference that separates groups in their fundamental values by perceiving Hackett's \"\"The News Media and Civic Equality: Watch Dogs, Mad Dogs, or Lap Dogs?\" In so doing, the media are reinforcing the political status quo by constraining oppositional mobilization, an impact consistent with the lap dog view.\n\nAndrew Powell states \"newspapers need to establish multi-platform strategies to engage readers that focus on the content rather than the format\" on Canadian Community Newspapers Association. He continues, \"Perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of the study results was that loyal newspaper readers were more engaged members of their community than non-readers, but at the same time, editorial content in newspapers was seen as irrelevant to youth interests. When editorials did discuss youth, it was also seen as generally negative.\" According to the Canadian Ethnic Studies Journal written by Karim H. Karim, \"younger Canada remains more committed to diversity and civil liberties than the older one.\" Studies show that current young adult voters turned out to be a political participation because the moral standards are different from parents' generation. \"Today's tuned-out young voters are likely to be tomorrow's tuned-out middle-aged voters. And while it is by no means exclusively a Canadian political phenomenon, the decline in electoral participation by young adults is more steel in Canada than in other advanced democracies.\" Can newspapers be independent from dominant values that Robert A. Hackett argues to influence young audiences? The more one does this, the harder it is to be a political mascot, for one cannot take note of the world's complexity without undermining one's faith in facile ideological solutions. As Orwell knew, the search for context is a step toward mental independence. The cultivation of newspapers has less chance to influence young voters because citizens are already aware of the directions of newspaper contents. Indeed, the contents of newspapers hardly influence the insights of young Canadians because they contribute to contradicted social values and differentiate the political agenda settings. Marc Mayrand, Canada's chief electoral officer says \"As a civil society, we need to come together and determine concrete action that could be taken in a co-ordinated matter to seek to engage and re-engage youth in their democracy,\" he said. Addressing issues of convenience alone will not do it, he said. And he continues, \"What is it that makes Canadians interested in politics?\" Mr. Mayrand asked. \"What is it that turns them off from time to time? And what is it that we can do about changing the culture around this?\"\n"}
{"id": "6862253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6862253", "title": "Yuzhnoukrainsk", "text": "Yuzhnoukrainsk\n\nYuzhnoukrainsk () is a city in Mykolaiv Oblast, Ukraine. It is incorporated as a city of oblast significance. Population: \n\nYuzhnoukrainsk NPP is located near the city of Yuzhnoukrainsk, approximately 350 kilometers (over 200 miles) south of the capital Kiev. This nuclear power station has three VVER-1000 reactors and a net achievement of 2,850 megawatts (MW). It is at present the second largest of the five nuclear power stations in the country.\n\nYuzhnoukrainsk was founded in 1976. It's one of youngest of Ukrainian towns.\n\n\n"}
