{"id": "3004250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004250", "title": "Agricultural Party", "text": "Agricultural Party\n\nThe Agricultural Party was a minor political party in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 1931 as the Norfolk Farmers' Party but changed its name one week after its formation. It initially had the support of the National Farmers Union, Lord Rothermere and Lord Beaverbrook.\n\nThe party called for Empire free trade, agricultural protection, and the introduction of duties on food imports. It stood candidates in the 1931 general election and again in the East Fife by-election in 1933, but without success, and it lost its high-profile supporters. It appears to have been disbanded in the late 1940s.\n"}
{"id": "1397314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397314", "title": "Akhil Bharatiya Jan Sangh", "text": "Akhil Bharatiya Jan Sangh\n\nAkhil Bharatiya Jan Sangh (अखिल भारतीय जनसंघ, All India Popular Union) is a Hindu nationalist political party in India. \n\nThe party claims to be the authentic Bharatiya Jan Sangh, which was the precursor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The ABJS was founded by Balraj Madhok, a founding secretary and 9th National President of BJS, who had been expelled from that party in 1973 after he left the Janata Party in 1979. Madhok remains a leading figure in the ABJS.\n\nThis time the National President is (Dr.) Acharya Bharat Bhushan Pandey and Secretary General of the ABJS is Sri Samir Singh Chandel.\n\nThe ABJS presses for the rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits and the scrapping of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution.\n\nIn the 2014 Indian General Election, the ABJS did not win a single seat in the National Parliament.\n"}
{"id": "401190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401190", "title": "Allan Octavian Hume", "text": "Allan Octavian Hume\n\nAllan Octavian Hume, CB ICS (6 June 1829 – 31 July 1912) was a member of the Imperial Civil Service (later the Indian Civil Service), a political reformer, ornithologist and botanist who worked in British India. He was one of the founders of the Indian National Congress, a political party that was later to lead in the Indian independence movement. A notable ornithologist, Hume has been called \"the Father of Indian Ornithology\" and, by those who found him dogmatic, \"the Pope of Indian ornithology\".\n\nAs an administrator of Etawah, he saw the Indian Rebellion of 1857 as a result of misgovernance and made great efforts to improve the lives of the common people. The district of Etawah was among the first to be returned to normality and over the next few years Hume's reforms led to the district being considered a model of development. Hume rose in the ranks of the Indian Civil Service but like his father Joseph Hume, the radical MP, he was bold and outspoken in questioning British policies in India. He rose in 1871 to the position of secretary to the Department of Revenue, Agriculture, and Commerce under Lord Mayo. His criticism of Lord Lytton however led to his removal from the Secretariat in 1879.\n\nHe founded the journal \"Stray Feathers\" in which he and his subscribers recorded notes on birds from across India. He built up a vast collection of bird specimens at his home in Shimla by making collection expeditions and obtaining specimens through his network of correspondents.\n\nFollowing the loss of manuscripts that he had long been maintaining in the hope of producing a magnum opus on the birds of India, he abandoned ornithology and gave his collection to the Natural History Museum in London, where it continues to be the single largest collection of Indian bird skins. He was briefly a follower of the theosophical movement founded by Madame Blavatsky. He left India in 1894 to live in London from where he continued to take an interest in the Indian National Congress, apart from taking an interest in botany and founding the South London Botanical Institute towards the end of his life.\n\nHume was born at St Mary Cray, Kent, a younger son (and the eighth child in a family of nine) of Joseph Hume, the Radical member of parliament, by his marriage to Maria Burnley. He was educated at University College Hospital, where he studied medicine and surgery and was then nominated to the Indian Civil Services which led him to study at the East India Company College, Haileybury. Early influences included his friend John Stuart Mill and Herbert Spencer.\n\nHume sailed to India in 1849 and the following year, joined the Bengal Civil Service at Etawah in the North-Western Provinces, in what is now Uttar Pradesh. His career in India included service as a district officer from 1849 to 1867, head of a central department from 1867 to 1870, and secretary to the Government from 1870 to 1879. He married Mary Anne Grindall (26 May 1824, Meerut - March 1890, Simla) in 1853.\n\nIt was only nine years after his entry to India that Hume faced the Indian Rebellion of 1857 during which time he was involved in several military actions for which he was created a Companion of the Bath in 1860. Initially it appeared that he was safe in Etawah, not far from Meerut where the rebellion began but this changed and Hume had to take refuge in Agra fort for six months. Nonetheless, all but one Indian official remained loyal and Hume resumed his position in Etawah in January 1858. He built up an irregular force of 650 loyal Indian troops and took part in engagements with them. Hume blamed British ineptitude for the uprising and pursued a policy of \"mercy and forbearance\". Only seven persons were executed at the gallows on his orders. The district of Etawah was restored to peace and order in a year, something that was not possible in most other parts.\n\nShortly after 1857, he set about in a range of reforms. As a District Officer in the Indian Civil Service, he began introducing free primary education and held public meetings for their support. He made changes in the functioning of the police department and the separation of the judicial role. Noting that there was very little reading material with educational content, he started, along with Koour Lutchman Singh, a Hindi language periodical, \"Lokmitra\" (\"The People's Friend\") in 1859. Originally meant only for Etawah, its fame spread.\n\nHe took up the cause of education and founded scholarships for higher education. He wrote, in 1859, that education played a key role in avoiding revolts like the one in 1857: \"... assert its supremacy as it may at the bayonet's point, a free and civilized government must look for its stability and permanence to the enlightenment of the people and their moral and intellectual capacity to appreciate its blessings.\"\n\nIn 1863 he moved for separate schools for juvenile delinquents rather than flogging and imprisonment which he saw as producing hardened criminals. His efforts led to a juvenile reformatory not far from Etawah. He also started free schools in Etawah and by 1857 he established 181 schools with 5186 students including two girls. The high school that he helped build with his own money is still in operation, now as a junior college, and it was said to have a floor plan resembling the letter \"H\". This, according to some was an indication of Hume's imperial ego. Hume found the idea of earning revenue earned through liquor traffic repulsive and described it as \"The wages of sin\". With his progressive ideas on social reform, he advocated women's education, was against infanticide and enforced widowhood. Hume laid out in Etawah, a neatly gridded commercial district that is now known as Humeganj but often pronounced \"Homeganj\".\n\nIn 1867 Hume became Commissioner of Customs for the North West Province, and in 1870 he became attached to the central government as Director-General of Agriculture. In 1879 he returned to provincial government at Allahabad.\n\nHume was very interested in the development of agriculture. He believed that there was too much focus on obtaining revenue and no effort had been spent on improving the efficiency of agriculture. He found an ally in Lord Mayo who supported the idea of developing a complete department of agriculture. Hume noted in his \"Agricultural reform in India\" that Lord Mayo had been the only Viceroy who had any experience of working in the fields.\n\nHume made a number of suggestions for the improvement of agriculture placing carefully gathered evidence for his ideas. He noted the poor yields of wheat, comparing the yields that he had estimated with the records of Emperor Akbar and the yield of farms in Norfolk. Lord Mayo supported his ideas but was unable to establish a dedicated agricultural bureau as the scheme did not find support in the Secretary of State for India, but they negotiated the setting up of a \"Department of Revenue, Agriculture and Commerce\" despite Hume's insistence that \"Agriculture\" be the first and foremost aim. Hume was made a secretary of this department in July 1871 leading to his move to Shimla.\n\nWith the murder of Lord Mayo in the Andamans in 1872, Hume lost patronage and support for his work. He however went about reforming the department of agriculture, streamlining the collection of meteorological data (the meteorological department was set up by order number 56 on 27 September 1875 signed by Hume) and statistics on cultivation and yield.\n\nHume proposed the idea of having experimental farms to demonstrate best practices to be set up in every district. He proposed to develop fuelwood plantations \"in every village in the drier portions of the country\" and thereby provide a substitute heating and cooking fuel so that manure (dried cattle dung was used as fuel by the poor) could be returned to the land. Such plantations, he wrote, were \"\"a thing that is entirely in accord with the traditions of the country – a thing that the people would understand, appreciate, and, with a little judicious pressure, cooperate in.\" He wanted model farms to be established in every district. He noted that rural indebtedness was caused mainly by the use of land as security, a practice that had been introduced by the British. Hume denounced it as another of \"the cruel blunders into which our narrow-minded, though wholly benevolent, desire to reproduce England in India has led us.\"\" Hume also wanted government-run banks, at least until cooperative banks could be established.\n\nThe department also supported the publication of several manuals on aspects of cultivation, a list of which Hume included as an appendix to his \"Agricultural Reform in India\". Hume supported the introduction of cinchona and the project managed by George King to produce quinine locally at low cost.\n\nHume was very outspoken and never feared to criticise when he thought the Government was in the wrong. Even in 1861, he objected to the concentration of police and judicial functions in the hands of police superintendents. In March 1861, he took a medical leave due to a breakdown from overwork and departed for Britain. Before leaving, he condemned the flogging and punitive measures initiated by the provincial government as 'barbarous … torture'. He was allowed to return to Etawah only after apologising for the tone of his criticism. He criticised the administration of Lord Lytton before 1879 which according to him, had cared little for the welfare and aspiration of the people of India.\n\nLord Lytton's foreign policy according to Hume had led to the waste of \"millions and millions of Indian money\". Hume was critical of the land revenue policy and suggested that it was the cause of poverty in India. His superiors were irritated and attempted to restrict his powers and this led him to publish a book on \"Agricultural Reform in India\" in 1879.\n\nHume noted that the free and honest expression was not only permitted but encouraged under Lord Mayo and that this freedom was curtailed under Lord Northbrook who succeeded Lord Mayo. When Lord Lytton succeeded Lord Northbrook, the situation worsened for Hume. In 1879 Hume went against the authorities. The Government of Lord Lytton dismissed him from his position in the Secretariat. No clear reason was given except that it \"\"was based entirely on the consideration of what was most desirable in the interests of the public service\".\n\nThe press declared that his main wrongdoing was that he was too honest and too independent. The \"Pioneer\" wrote that it was \"the grossest jobbery ever perpetrated\"\" ; the \"Indian Daily News\" wrote that it was a \"great wrong\" while \"The Statesman\" said that \"undoubtedly he has been treated shamefully and cruelly.\" \"The Englishman\" in an article dated 27 June 1879, commenting on the event stated, \"There is no security or safety now for officers in Government employment.\" Demoted, he left Simla and returned to the North-West Provinces in October, 1879, as a member of the Board of Revenue. It has pointed out that he was victimised as he was out of step with the policies of the Government, often intruding into aspects of administration with critical opinions.\n\nIn spite of the humiliation of demotion, he did not resign immediately from service and it has been suggested that this was because he needed his salary to support the publication of \"The Game Birds of India\" that he was working on. Hume retired from the civil service only in 1882. In 1883 he wrote an open letter to the graduates of Calcutta University, calling upon them to form their own national political movement. This led in 1885 to the first session of the Indian National Congress held in Bombay. In 1887 writing to the Public Commission of India he made what was then a statement unexpected from a civil servant — \"I look upon myself as a Native of India\".\n\nHume's wife Mary died on 30 March 1890 and news of her death reached him just as he reached London on 1 April 1890. Their only daughter Maria Jane Burnley (\"Minnie\") (1854 - 1927) had married Ross Scott at Shimla on 28 December 1881. Maria became a member of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, another occult movement, after moving to England. Ross Scott was the founding secretary of the Simla Eclectic Theosophical Society, who was sometime Judicial Commissioner of Oudh and died in 1908. Hume's grandson Allan Hume Scott served with the Royal Engineers in India.\n\nHume left India in 1894 and settled at The Chalet, 4 Kingswood Road, Upper Norwood in south London. He died at the age of eighty-three on 31 July 1912. His ashes were buried in Brookwood Cemetery. The bazaar in Etawah was closed on hearing of his death and the Collector, H. R. Neville, presided over a memorial meeting.\n\nThe Indian postal department issued a commemorative stamp with his portrait in 1973 and a special cover depicting Rothney Castle, his home in Shimla, was released in 2013.\n\nFrom early days, Hume had a special interest in science. Science, he wrote:\n\nand of natural history he wrote in 1867:\nDuring his career in Etawah, he built a personal collection of bird specimens, however it was destroyed during the 1857 rebellion. Subsequently, he started afresh with a systematic plan to survey and document the birds of the Indian Subcontinent and in the process he accumulated the largest collection of Asiatic birds in the world, which he housed in a museum and library at his home in Rothney Castle on Jakko Hill, Simla. Rothney Castle, originally Rothney House was built by Colonel Octavius Edward Rothney and later belonged to P. Mitchell, C.I.E from whom Hume bought it and converted it into a palatial house with some hope that it might be bought by the Government as a Viceregal residence since the Governor-General then occupied \"Peterhoff\", a building too small for large parties. Hume spent over two hundred thousand pounds on the grounds and buildings. He added enormous reception rooms suitable for large dinner parties and balls, as well as a magnificent conservatory and spacious hall with walls displaying his superb collection of Indian horns. He used a large room for his bird museum. He hired a European gardener, and made the grounds and conservatory a perpetual horticultural exhibition, to which he courteously admitted all visitors. Rothney Castle could only be reached by a steep road, and was never purchased by the British Government.\n\nHume made several expeditions to collect birds both on health leave and where work took him. He was Collector and Magistrate of Etawah from 1856 to 1867 during which time he studied the birds of that area. He later became Commissioner of Inland Customs which made him responsible for the control of of coast from near Peshawar in the northwest to Cuttack on the Bay of Bengal. He travelled on horseback and camel in areas of Rajasthan to negotiate treaties with various local maharajas to control the export of salt and during these travels he took note of the birdlife:\n\nHume appears to have planned a comprehensive work on the birds of India around 1870 and this \"forthcoming comprehensive work\" finds mention in the second edition of \"The Cyclopaedia of India\" (1871) by his cousin Edward Balfour. Hume made several expeditions solely to study ornithology the largest being an expedition to the Indus area in late November 1871 and continued until the end of February 1872. In March 1873, he visited the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal along with geologists Dr. Ferdinand Stoliczka and Dr. Dougall of the Geological Survey of India and James Wood-Mason of the Indian Museum in Calcutta. In 1875, he made an expedition to the Laccadive Islands aboard the marine survey vessel IGS \"Clyde\" under the command of Staff-Commander Ellis. The official purpose of the visit being to examine proposed sites for lighthouses. During this expedition Hume collected many bird specimens, apart from conducting a bathymetric survey to determine whether the island chain was separated from India by a deep canyon. And in 1881 he made his last ornithological expedition to Manipur, a visit in which he collected and described the Manipur bush quail (\"Perdicula manipurensis\"), a bird that has remained obscure with few reliable reports since. Hume spent an extra day with his assistants cutting down a large tract of grass so that he could obtain specimens of this species. This expedition was made on special leave following his demotion from the Central Government to a junior position on the Board of Revenue of the North Western Provinces. Apart from personal travel, he also sent out a trained bird-skinner to accompany officers travelling in areas of ornithological interest such as Afghanistan. Around 1878 he was spending about ₤ 1500 a year on his ornithological surveys.\n\nHume was a member of the Asiatic Society of Bengal from January 1870 to 1891 and admitted Fellow of the Linnean Society on November 3, 1904. After returning to England in 1890 he also became president of the Dulwich Liberal and Radical Association.\n\nHume used his vast bird collection to good use as editor of his journal \"Stray Feathers\". He also intended to produce a comprehensive publication on the birds of India. Hume employed William Ruxton Davison, who was brought to notice by Dr. George King, as a curator for his personal bird collection. Hume trained Davison and sent him out annually on collection trips to various parts of India as he himself was held up with official responsibilities. In 1883 Hume returned from a trip to find that many pages of the manuscripts that he had maintained over the years had been stolen and sold off as waste paper by a servant. Hume was completely devastated and he began to lose interest in ornithology due to this theft and a landslip, caused by heavy rains in Simla, which had damaged his museum and many of the specimens. He wrote to the British Museum wishing to donate his collection on certain conditions. One of the conditions was that the collection was to be examined by Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe and personally packed by him, apart from raising Dr. Sharpe's rank and salary due to the additional burden on his work caused by his collection. The British Museum was unable to heed his many conditions. It was only in 1885 after the destruction of nearly 20000 specimens, that alarm bells were raised by Dr. Sharpe and the museum authorities let him visit India to supervise the transfer of the specimens to the British Museum.\n\nSharpe wrote of Hume's impressive private ornithological museum:\nSharpe also noted:\nThe Hume collection of birds was packed into 47 cases made of deodar wood constructed on site without nails that could potentially damage specimens and each case weighing about half a ton was transported down the hill to a bullock cart to Kalka and finally the port in Bombay. The material that went to the British Museum in 1885 consisted of 82,000 specimens of which 75,577 were finally placed in the museum. A breakup of that collection is as follows (old names retained). Hume had destroyed 20,000 specimens prior to this as they had been damaged by dermestid beetles.\n\n\nThe Hume Collection contained 258 type specimens. In addition there were nearly 400 mammal specimens including new species such as \"Hadromys humei\".\n\nThe egg collection was made up of carefully authenticated contributions from knowledgeable contacts and on the authenticity and importance of the collection, E. W. Oates wrote in the 1901 \"Catalogue of the Collection of Birds' Eggs in the British Museum\" (Volume 1):\nHume and his collector Davison took an interest in plants as well. Specimens were collected even on the first expedition to the Lakshadweep in 1875 were studied by George King and later by David Prain. Hume's herbarium specimens were donated to the collection of the Botanical Survey of India at Calcutta.\n\nHume described many species, some of which are now considered as subspecies. A single genus name that he erected survives in use while others such as \"Heteroglaux\" Hume, 1873 have sunk into synonymy since. In his concept of species, Hume was an essentialist and held the idea that small but constant differences defined species. He appreciated the ideas of speciation and how it contradicted divine creation but preferred to maintain a position that did not reject a Creator.\n\n\nThe use of trinomials had not yet gone into regular usage during Hume's time. He used the term \"local race\". The following subspecies are current placements of taxa that were named as new species by Hume.\n\n\nAn additional species, the large-billed reed-warbler \"Acrocephalus orinus\" was known from just one specimen collected by him in 1869 but the name that he used, \"magnirostris\", was found to be preoccupied and replaced by the name \"orinus\" provided by Harry Oberholser in 1905. The status of the species was contested until DNA comparisons with similar species in 2002 suggested that it was a valid species. It was only in 2006 that the species was seen in the wild in Thailand, with a match to the specimens confirmed using DNA sequencing. Later searches in museums led to several other specimens that had been overlooked and based on the specimen localities, a breeding region was located in Tajikistan and documented in 2011.\n\nThis was Hume's first major work on birds. It had 422 pages and accounts of 81 species. It was dedicated to Edward Blyth and Dr. Thomas C. Jerdon who, he wrote \"[had] done more for Indian Ornithology than all other modern observers put together\" and he described himself as \"their friend and pupil\". He hoped that his book would form a \"nucleus round which future observation may crystallize\" and that others around the country could help him \"fill in many of the woeful blanks remaining in record\". In the preface he notes:\nHume started the quarterly journal \"Stray Feathers\" in 1872. At that time the only journal for the Indian region that published on ornithology was the \"Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal\". He had wondered if there was merit to start a new journal and in that idea was supported by Stoliczka, who was an editor for the Journal of the Asiatic Society:\nHe used the journal to publish descriptions of his new discoveries, such as Hume's owl, Hume's wheatear and Hume's whitethroat. He wrote extensively on his own observation as well as critical reviews of all the ornithological works of the time and earned himself the nickname of \"Pope of Indian ornithology\". He critiqued a monograph on parrots, \"Die Papageien\" by Friedrich Hermann Otto Finsch suggesting that name changes (by \"cabinet naturalists\") were aimed at claiming authority to species without the trouble of actually discovering them. He wrote:\n\nHume in turn was attacked, for instance by Viscount Walden, but Finsch became a friend and Hume named a species, \"Psittacula finschii\", after him.\n\nIn his younger days Hume had studied some geology from the likes of Gideon Mantell and he appreciated the synthesis of ideas from other fields in ornithology. Hume included in 1872, a detailed article on the osteology of birds in relation to their classification written by Richard Lydekker who was then in the Geological Survey of India. The early meteorological work in India was done within the department headed by Hume and he saw the value of meteorology in the study of bird distributions. In a work comparing the rainfall zones, he notes how the high rainfall zones indicated affinities to the Malayan fauna.\n\nHume sometimes mixed personal beliefs in notes that he published in \"Stray Feathers\". For instance he believed that vultures soared by altering the physics (\"altered polarity\") of their body and repelling the force of gravity. He further noted that this ability was normal in birds and could be acquired by humans by maintaining spiritual purity claiming that he knew of at least three Indian Yogis and numerous saints in the past with this ability of \"aethrobacy\".\n\nHume corresponded with a large number of ornithologists and sportsmen who helped him by reporting from various parts of India. More than 200 correspondents are listed in his \"Game Birds\" alone and they probably represent only a fraction of the subscribers of \"Stray Feathers\". This large network made it possible for Hume to cover a much larger geographic region in his ornithological work.\n\nDuring the lifetime of Hume, Blyth was considered the father of Indian ornithology. Hume's achievement which made use of a large network of correspondents was recognised even during his time:\nMany of Hume's correspondents were eminent naturalists and sportsmen of the time.\n\nHume exchanged skins with other collectors. A collection made principally by Hume that belonged to the Earl of Northbrook was gifted to Oxford University in 1877. One of his correspondents, Louis Mandelli from Darjeeling, stands out by claiming that he was swindled in these skin exchanges. He claimed that Hume took skins of rarer species in exchange for the skins of common birds but the credibility of the complaint has been doubted. Hume named \"Arborophila mandelli\" after Mandelli in 1874. The only other naturalist to question Hume's veracity was A.L. Butler who met a Nicobar islander whom Hume had described as diving nearly stark naked and capturing fish with his bare hands. Butler found the man in denial of such fishing techniques.\n\nHume corresponded and stayed up to date with the works of ornithologists outside India including R. Bowdler Sharpe, the Marquis of Tweeddale, Père David, Henry Eeles Dresser, Benedykt Dybowski, John Henry Gurney, J. H. Gurney, Jr., Johann Friedrich Naumann, Nikolai Severtzov and Dr. Aleksandr Middendorff. He helped George Ernest Shelley with specimens from India aiding the publication of a monograph on the sunbirds of the world (1876-1880).\n\nHume's vast collection from across India was possible because he began to correspond with coadjutors across India. He ensured that these contributors made accurate notes, and obtained and processed specimens carefully. The \"Vade Mecum\" was published to save him the trouble of sending notes to potential collaborators who sought advice. Materials for preservation are carefully tailored for India with the provision of the local names for ingredients and methods to prepare glues and preservatives with easy to find equipment. Apart from skinning and preservation, the book also covers matters of observation, keeping records, the use of natives to capture birds, obtain eggs and the care needed in obtaining other information apart from care in labelling.\n\nThis work was co-authored by C. H. T. Marshall. The three volume work on the game birds was made using contributions and notes from a network of 200 or more correspondents. Hume delegated the task of getting the plates made to Marshall. The chromolithographs of the birds were drawn by W. Foster, E. Neale, (Miss) M. Herbert, Stanley Wilson and others and the plates were produced by F. Waller in London. Hume had sent specific notes on colours of soft parts and instructions to the artists. He was unsatisfied with many of the plates and included additional notes on the plates in the book. This book was started at the point when the government demoted Hume and only the need to finance the publication of this book prevented him from retiring from service. He had estimated that it would cost ₤ 4000 to publish it and he retired from service on 1 January 1882 after the publication.\n\nIn the preface Hume wrote:\nwhile his co-author Marshall, wrote:\n\nThis was another major work by Hume and in it he covered descriptions of the nests, eggs and the breeding seasons of most Indian bird species. It makes use of notes from contributors to his journals as well as other correspondents and works of the time. Hume also makes insightful notes such as observations on caged females separated from males that would continue to lay fertile eggs through the possibility of sperm storage and the reduction in parental care by birds that laid eggs in warm locations (mynas in the Andamans, river terns on sand banks).\n\nA second edition of this book was made in 1889 which was edited by Eugene William Oates. This was published when he had himself given up all interest in ornithology. An event precipitated by the loss of his manuscripts through the actions of a servant. He wrote in the preface:\nEugene Oates wrote his own editorial note:\nThis nearly marked the end of Hume's interest in ornithology. Hume's last piece of ornithological writing was part of an \"Introduction to the Scientific Results of the Second Yarkand Mission\" in 1891, an official publication on the contributions of Dr. Ferdinand Stoliczka, who died during the return journey on this mission. Stoliczka in a dying request had asked that Hume edit the volume on ornithology.\n\nA number of birds are named after Hume, including:\n\n\nSpecimens of other animal groups collected by Hume on his expeditions and named after him include the Manipur bush rat, \"Hadromys humei\" (Thomas, 1886) while some others like \"Hylaeocarcinus humei\", a land crab from the Narcondam Island collected by Hume was described by James Wood-Mason, and Hume's argali, \"Ovis ammon humei\" Lydekker 1913 (now treated as \"Ovis ammon karelini\", Severtzov, 1873) are no longer considered valid.\n\nHume's interest in theosophy took root around 1879. An 1880 newspaper reports the initiation of his daughter and wife into the movement. Hume did not have great regard for institutional Christianity, but believed in the immortality of the soul and in the idea of a supreme ultimate. Hume wanted to become a \"chela\" (student) of the Tibetan spiritual gurus. During the few years of his connection with the Theosophical Society Hume wrote three articles on \"Fragments of Occult Truth\" under the pseudonym \"H. X.\" published in \"The Theosophist\". These were written in response to questions from Mr. Terry, an Australian Theosophist.\n\nHe also privately printed several Theosophical pamphlets titled \"Hints on Esoteric Theosophy\". The later numbers of the Fragments, in answer to the same enquirer, were written by A.P. Sinnett and signed by him, as authorized by Mahatma K. H., \"A Lay-Chela.\" Hume also wrote under the pseudonym of \"Aletheia\".\n\nMadame Blavatsky was a regular visitor at Hume's Rothney castle at Simla and an account of her visit may be found in \"Simla, Past and Present\" by Edward John Buck (who succeeded Mr. Hume in charge of the Agricultural Department).\n\nA long story about Hume and his wife appears in A.P. Sinnett's book \"The Occult World\", and the synopsis was published in a local paper of India. The story relates how at a dinner party, Madame Blavatsky asked Mrs Hume if there was anything she wanted. She replied that there was a brooch, her mother had given her, that had gone out of her possession some time ago. Blavatsky said she would try to recover it through occult means. After some interlude, later that evening, the brooch was found in a garden, where the party was directed by Blavatsky. According to John Murdoch (1894), the brooch had been given by Mrs. Hume to her daughter who had given it to a man she admired. Blavatsky had happened to meet the man in Bombay and obtained the brooch in return for money. Blavatsky allegedly planted it in the garden before directing people to the location through what she claimed as occult techniques.\n\nAfter the incident, Hume too had privately expressed grave doubts on the powers attributed to Madame Blavatsky. He subsequently held a meeting with some of the Indian members of the Theosophical Society and suggested that they join hands with him to force the resignation of Blavatsky and sixteen other members for their role as accomplices in fraud. Those present could however not agree to the idea of seeking the resignation of their founder. Hume also tried to write a book on the philosophical basis of Theosophy. His drafts were strongly disapproved by many of the key Theosophists. One (\"K.H\"=Koot Humi) wrote:\nHume soon fell out of favour with the Theosophists and lost all interest in the theosophical movement in 1883.\n\nHume's interest in spirituality brought him into contact with many independent Indian thinkers who also had nationalist ideas and this led to the idea of creating the Indian National Congress.\n\nHume's immersion into the theosophical movement led him to become a vegetarian and also to give up killing birds for their specimens.\n\nAfter retiring from the civil services and towards the end of Lord Lytton's rule, Hume observed that the people of India had a sense of hopelessness and wanted to do something, noting \"a sudden violent outbreak of sporadic crime, murders of obnoxious persons, robbery of bankers and looting of bazaars, acts really of lawlessness which by a due coalescence of forces might any day develop into a National Revolt.\" Concerning the British government, he stated that \"a studied and invariable disregard, if not actually contempt for the opinions and feelings of our subjects, is at the present day the leading characteristic of our government in every branch of the administration.\"\n\nThere were agrarian riots in the Deccan and Bombay, and Hume suggested that an Indian Union would be a good safety valve and outlet to avoid further unrest. On 1 March 1883 he wrote a letter to the graduates of the University of Calcutta:\nHis poem \"The Old Man's Hope\" published in Calcutta in 1886 also captures the sentiment:\n<poem>\nSons of Ind, why sit ye idle,\nWait ye for some Deva's aid?\nBuckle to, be up and doing!\nNations by themselves are made!\n\nAre ye Serfs or are ye Freemen,\nYe that grovel in the shade?\nIn your own hands rest the issues!\nBy themselves are nations made! ...\n</poem>\n\nThe idea of the Indian Union took shape and Hume initially had some support from Lord Dufferin for this, although the latter wished to have no official link to it. Dufferin's support was short-lived. It has been suggested that the idea was originally conceived in a private meeting of seventeen men after a Theosophical Convention held at Madras in December 1884. Hume took the initiative, and it was in March 1885, when the first notice was issued convening the first Indian National Union to meet at Poona the following December.\n\nHe attempted to increase the Congress base by bringing in more farmers, townspeople and Muslims between 1886 and 1887 and this created a backlash from the British, leading to backtracking by the Congress. Hume was disappointed when Congress opposed moves to raise the age of marriage for Indian girls and failed to focus on issues of poverty. Some Indian princes did not like the idea of democracy and some organizations like the United Indian Patriotic Association went about trying to undermine the Congress by showing it as an organization with a seditious character. In 1892, he tried to get them to act by warning of a violent agrarian revolution but this only outraged the British establishment and frightened the Congress leaders. Disappointed by the continued lack of Indian leaders willing to work for the cause of national emancipation, Hume left for Britain in 1894.\n\nMany Anglo-Indians were against the idea of the Indian National Congress. The press in India tended to look upon it negatively, so much so that Hume is said to have held a very low opinion of journalists even later in life. A satirical work published in 1888 included a character called \"A. O. Humebogue\".\n\nThe organizers of the 27th session of the Indian National Congress at Bankipur (26–28 December 1912) recorded their \"profound sorrow at the death of Allan Octavian Hume, C.B., father and founder of the Congress, to whose lifelong services, rendered at rare self-sacrifice, India feels deep and lasting gratitude, and in whose death the cause of Indian progress and reform sustained irreparable loss.\"\n\nAfter the loss of his manuscript containing his lifetime of ornithological notes. Hume took up a great interest in horticulture while at Shimla. ... He erected large conservatories in the grounds of Rothney Castle, filled them with the choicest flowers, and engaged English gardeners to help him in the work. From this, on returning to England, he went on to scientific botany. But this, as Kipling says, is another story, and must be left to another pen.\n\nHume took an interest in wild plants and especially on invasive species although his botanical publishing was sparse with only a few short notes in 1901 on a variety of \"Scirpus maritimus\" and another on the flowering of \"Impatiens roylei\". Hume contacted W.H. Griffin in 1901 to help develop a herbarium of botanical specimens. Hume would arrange his plants on herbarium sheets in artistic positions before pressing them. The two made many botanical trips including one to Down in Kent to seek some of the rare orchids that had been collected by Darwin. In 1910, Hume bought the premises of 323 Norwood Road, and modified it to have a herbarium and library. He called this establishment the South London Botanical Institute with the aim of \"promoting, encouraging, and facilitating, amongst the residents of South London, the study of the science of botany.\"\n\nOne of the aims of the institute was to help promote botany as a means for mental culture and relaxation, an idea that was not shared by Henry Groves, a trustee for the Institute. Hume objected to advertisement and refused to have any public ceremony to open the institute. The first curator was W.H. Griffin and Hume endowed the Institute with £10,000. Frederick Townsend, F.L.S., an eminent botanist, who died in 1905, had left instructions that his herbarium and collection was to be given to the institute, which was then only being contemplated. Hume left £15,000 in his will for the maintenance of the botanical institute.\n\nIn the years leading up to the establishment of the Institute, Hume built up links with many of the leading botanists of his day. He worked with F. H. Davey and in the \"Flora of Cornwall\" (1909), Davey thanks Hume as his companion on excursions in Cornwall and Devon, and for help in the compilation of the 'Flora', publication of which was financed by Hume. The SLBI has since grown to hold a herbarium of approximately 100,000 specimens mostly of flowering plants from Europe including many collected by Hume. The collection was later augmented by the addition of other herbaria over the years, and has significant collections of \"Rubus\" (bramble) species and of the Shetland flora.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3271893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271893", "title": "Australians Against Further Immigration", "text": "Australians Against Further Immigration\n\nAustralians Against Further Immigration (AAFI) was an Australian political party which described itself as \"eco-nationalist\" and was against positive net immigration. The party was founded in 1989 and registered in 1990. It ceased to exist in 2008. \n\nAAFI regularly stood candidates at both state and federal level, but never won a seat. The party said it was a mainstream organisation, and to distance itself from extremist organisations such as the Australian League of Rights and from the Citizens Electoral Council. The far-left \"Green Left Weekly \" called it racist. In 1994, Franca Arena, a member of the New South Wales Legislative Council, denounced them in the New South Wales parliament.\n\nThe party was deregistered by the Australian Electoral Commission in December 2005, as lacking the minimum required members in order to be registered as a political party. It contested the 2007 New South Wales state election, but was deregistered at the state level not long after.\n"}
{"id": "52547912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52547912", "title": "Brain/MINDS", "text": "Brain/MINDS\n\nThe Brain/MINDS (\"Brain Mapping by Integrated Neurotechnologies for Disease Studies\") is a Japanese project sponsored by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan (MEXT). The project was launched in June 2014.\n\nThe Brain/MINDS Project studies focuses on three areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "1650418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650418", "title": "Communal Council of Monaco", "text": "Communal Council of Monaco\n\nThe Communal Council is the body responsible for the civil administration of the four \"quartiers\" of the Principality of Monaco. Because Monaco is both a nation and a city, the council chooses the mayor of Monaco and his/her officers. It consists of fifteen members, elected by direct universal suffrage to four-year terms, and a mayor, selected by the members. It meets every three months. The main responsibilities of the City Council and the Mayor concern the social and cultural spheres. These responsibilities include support for daycares, home care for seniors, and the Academy of music, as well as organization of elections, granting of marriage licenses, and encouraging engagement in the life of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "25519704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25519704", "title": "Deutsche Hochschule für Politik", "text": "Deutsche Hochschule für Politik\n\nThe Deutsche Hochschule für Politik (DHfP), or \"German Academy for Politics\", was a private academy in Berlin, founded in October 1920. It was integrated into the Faculty for Foreign Studies (\"Auslandswissenschaftliche Fakultät\") of the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in 1940, was re-founded in 1948 and turned into the Otto-Suhr-Institut of the Freie Universität Berlin in 1959.\n\nThe DHfP was to establish the elementary principles of a democratic community in Germany in a liberal spirit and thus help to strengthen the young Weimar Republic against anti-democratic tendencies. Political science was at this time still understood as the study of democracy. The predecessor institution of the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik was the \"Staatsbürgerschule\" (Citizens' Academy) in Berlin, founded in 1918.\n\nSponsors or members of the founding board of trustees were amongst others Walter Simons, Ernst Jaeckh, Friedrich Naumann, Friedrich Meinecke, Max Weber, Hugo Preuß, Gertrud Bäumer and Otto Heinrich von der Gablentz. The Prussian education reformer (and scholar of Islamic studies) Carl Heinrich Becker played an important role in the successful founding of the new academy.\n\nLectures and seminars for the first 120 students at first took place only in the evening, mostly with volunteer lecturers. The core areas of teaching were at first: \n\nWith rising numbers of students, in the following years the proportion of paid teaching staff rose, as did the number of professorships. A degree could not be awarded by the Hochschule für Politik until the mid-1920s, due to the difficulties in making the education sufficiently academic.\n\nThe teaching staff included, amongst others, the women's rights activist Gertrud Bäumer, Carl Heinrich Becker, Rudolf Breitscheid, the constitutional lawyer Hermann Heller, the later Bundespräsident Theodor Heuss, Rudolf Hilferding, Wilhelm Heile, Hermann Luther, the politician and sociology professor Ernst Niekisch, the German-Jewish sociologist Albert Salomon, the historian Hans Delbrück, Hajo Holborn, Eckart Kehr, Veit Valentin, Ernst Jaeckh, the jurists Hermann Pünder, and Arnold Brecht, the economist Hans Staudinger and the government ministers Walther Rathenau, Bill Drews and Walter Simons. The latter's son Hans Simons was the head of the academy and also had teaching duties.\n\nMany of the teaching staff of the academy emigrated in 1933, in order to escape the Nazi repression of political opponents and those of Jewish descent. The political writer Peter Kleist then became the director.\n\nUnder the Nazi regime, the academy at first became directly subordinated to the government in 1937. The lecturers closest to National Socialism were the \"nationalist-revisionist\" and the \"völkisch-conservative\" ones, who came from the \"Politische Kolleg\". The latter had formed a working group with the academy in 1927. From this point on the teaching staff were divided, and no unified concept was agreed upon. Political science was then restricted to foreign policy and \"foreign studies\", and thus became part of the Nazi ideological apparatus and foreign policy.\n\nIn 1940 the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik was merged with the Institute for Oriental Languages, which had become the foreign studies school of the Universität Berlin in 1935. They were now integrated into the university as the Faculty of Foreign Studies (\"Auslandswissenschaftliche Fakultät\"). The dean was Franz Alfred Six, 30 years old. Six was an SS intellectual, who belonged to the elite of the NSDAP; he worked simultaneously on the extermination of the Jews as Adolf Eichmann's superior in the Reichssicherheitshauptamt. Another leading National Socialist at the Hochschule für Politik was the sociologist and geopolitics scholar Karl Heinz Pfeffer, who succeeded Six as dean. Anti-colonialist students (mostly Indian and Arab) also studied there until 1945.\n\nSome teachers in the Faculty of Foreign Studies were Albrecht Haushofer, Harro Schulze-Boysen and Mildred Harnack. Some of the students were: Eva-Maria Buch, Ursula Goetze, Horst Heilmann und Rainer Hildebrandt.\n\nThe number of Nazi Party members as a proportion of this Faculty was 65%, twice as much as other Berlin higher education institutions (Humboldt University of Berlin: 38%, Philosophy Faculty: 31%). It cooperated extensively with the government-run \"Deutsches Auslandswissenschaftliches Institut\" (DAWI; German Institute for Foreign Studies) of the Reich Ministry of Public Enlightenment. This institute was also run by Six, who also had a third function as head of the \"Kulturpolitische Abteilung\" of the German Foreign Office.\n\nIn 1948 the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik was re-founded by the Social Democrat Otto Suhr. It was integrated into the Freie Universität Berlin and moved to Berlin-Dahlem, as the newly founded Otto-Suhr-Institut in 1959. Its previous representative building in Schöneberg was used by the Fachhochschule für Wirtschaft Berlin from 1971.\n\nAn exhibition, by Siegfried Mielke and his colleagues, about the staff and students of the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik who were active in resistance groups during the time of the Nazi dictatorship, was opened on 14 June 2008 in the foyer of the Otto-Suhr-Institut by Wolfgang Thierse, the Vice President of the Bundestag. Since then, the exhibition has also been shown at other venues. The exhibition and accompanying materials give an overview of the development of the Hochschule. It is centred on several dozen biographies of students and members of staff, who fought against National Socialism in different groups either in the resistance or in exile. The biographies show a connection between the democratic orientation of the Hochschule and the political work of many of its teachers and students against the Nazi state. Although already at the start of 1933 staff and students at the German universities were starting to support the Nazis in droves, at the DHfP the majority of faculty and students stayed true to the democratic ideals it was founded on. According to the authors of these biographies, this was \"unique\" in the academic landscape. Just as unequalled was the large number of staff and students who joined resistance groups or fought the Nazi system in exile.\n"}
{"id": "32084710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32084710", "title": "E2D International", "text": "E2D International\n\nE2D International (E2D) is the political international of the Electronic Direct Democracy (E2D) Party movement. The E2D Manifesto describes the basic political principles of E2D International member parties.\n\nTo help create and promote parties with only one element in their program: Direct Democracy (\"a form of democracy in which sovereignty is lodged in the assembly of all citizens who choose to participate\").\n\nE2D parties are to be politically non-partisan and their agenda entirely based on people’s decision, determined by means of referendums and initiatives organized by party members and citizens. These organized systems will thus allow citizens to vote on propositions of laws submitted by elected members of parliament, but also to propose new laws.\n\nThe mission for Electronic Direct Democracy (E2D) International is:\n\"to help establish, to support and promote, and to maintain communication and co-operation between neutral electronic direct democracy parties around the world.\"\n\nThe E2D Manifesto, collaboratively drafted in February 2011 by representatives from Citizens for Direct Democracy, Online Party of Canada, Partido de Internet, Aktiv Demokrati, Demoex, Senator Online and Partidul Romania Online using Participedia.net, is a document which describes the basic political principles of E2D International. The E2D Manifesto was inspired by the ideas of Aki Orr, amongst others.\n\nE2D are active in several countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9339", "title": "Economy of Ecuador", "text": "Economy of Ecuador\n\nThe economy of Ecuador is based mostly on exports of oil, bananas, shrimp, gold, other primary agricultural products and money transfers from nearly a million Ecuadorian emigrants employed abroad. In 2002, oil accounted for about one-third of public-sector revenue and 40% of export earnings. Ecuador is the world's largest exporter of bananas ($936.5 million in 2002) and a major exporter of shrimp ($251 million in 2002). Exports of non-traditional products such as flowers ($291 million in 2002) and canned fish ($333 million in 2002) have grown in recent years. Industry is largely oriented to servicing the domestic market.\n\nDeteriorating economic performance in 1997–98 culminated in a severe financial crisis in 1999. The crisis was precipitated by a number of external shocks, including the El Niño weather phenomenon in 1997, a sharp drop in global oil prices in 1997–98, and international emerging market instability in 1997–98. These factors highlighted the Government of Ecuador's unsustainable economic policy mix of large fiscal deficits and expansionary money policy and resulted in a 7.3% contraction of GDP, annual year-on-year inflation of 52.2%, and a 65% devaluation of the national currency in 1999.\n\nOn January 9, 2000, the administration of President Jamil Mahuad announced its intention to adopt the U.S. dollar as the official currency of Ecuador to address the ongoing economic crisis. Subsequent protest led to the 2000 Ecuadorean coup d'état which saw Mahuad's removal from office and the elevation of Vice President Gustavo Noboa to the presidency.\n\nThe Noboa government confirmed its commitment to convert to the dollar as the centerpiece of its economic recovery strategy, successfully completing the transition from sucres to dollars in 2001. Following the completion of a one-year stand-by program with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in December 2001, Ecuador successfully negotiated a new $205 million stand-by agreement with the IMF in March 2003.\n\nBuoyed by higher oil prices, the Ecuadorian economy experienced a modest recovery in 2000–01, with GDP rising 2.3% in 2000 and 5.4% in 2001. GDP growth leveled off to 3.3% in 2002. Although final figures are not yet available, it is expected to fall further, to about 1.7%, for 2003. GDP growth is estimated to recover to over 4% in 2004, due largely to expanded oil exports. Inflation fell from an annual rate of 96.1% in 2000 to an annual rate of 37.7% in 2001; 12.6% for 2002. Despite recent gains, 40% of the population lives below the poverty line, more than double the rate five years ago.\n\nThe completion of the second Transandean Oil Pipeline (OCP in Spanish) in 2003 enabled Ecuador to expand oil exports. The OCP will double Ecuador's oil transport capacity.\n\nThe industrial sector has had enormous difficulty to emerge significantly. The industrial sector's main problem is the deficit of energy, which the current government has tackled with the improvement of performance on existing hydro plants, and the creation of new ones. Such projects included negotiation of the Coca-Codo hydroplant. Incentives of financing, tributary incentives, tariffs, and others will be implemented, that is intended to benefit areas of tourism, foods process, renewable and alternative energies, bioenergies, pharmaceutical and chemical products, biochemical and environmental biomedecine, services, automotive metallurgical industry, footwear, and automotive parts and pieces, among others. A 500 kV transmission line increases national grid strength and electricity trade with Peru and Colombia.\n\nEcuador's economy is the eighth largest in Latin America and experienced an average growth of 4.6% per year between 2000 and 2006. In January 2009, the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) put the 2010 growth forecast at 6.88%. GDP doubled between 1999 and 2007, reaching 65,490 million dollars according to BCE.\nInflation rate up to January 2008 was located about 1.14%, the highest recorded in the last year, according to Government. The monthly unemployment rate remained at about 6 and 8 percent from December 2007 until September 2008, however, it went up to about 9 percent in October and dropped again in November 2008 to 8 percent. An estimated 9 million Ecuadorians have an economic occupation and about 1.01 million inhabitants are in unemployment condition.\nIn 1998, 10% of the richest population had 42.5% of income, while 10% of the poor had only 0.6% of income. The rates of poverty were higher for populations of indigenous, afro-descendents, and rural sectors. During the same year, 7.6% of health spending went to the 20% of the poor, while 20% of the rich population received 38.1% of this expenditure. The extreme poverty rate has declined significantly between 1999 and 2010. In 2001 it was estimated at 40% of the population, while by 2011 the figure dropped to 17.4% of the total population. This is explained largely by emigration and economic stability achieved after adopting the U.S dollar as official means of transaction . \nPoverty rates were higher for indigenous peoples, Afro-descendants and rural areas, reaching 44% of the Native ancestry population.\n\nOil accounts for 40% of exports and contributes to maintaining a positive trade balance. Since the late '60s, the exploitation of oil increased production and reserves are estimated at 4.036 million barrels\n\nThe overall trade balance for August 2012 was a surplus of almost 390 million dollars for the first six months of 2012, a huge figure compared with that of 2007, which reached only $5.7 million; the surplus had risen by about 425 million compared to 2006. This circumstance was due to the fact that imports grew faster than exports. The oil trade balance positive had revenues of $3.295 million in 2008, while non-oil was negative amounting to 2.842 million dollars. The trade balance with the United States, Chile, the European Union, Bolivia, Peru, Brazil and Mexico is positive. The trade balance with Argentina, Colombia and Asia is negative.\n\nIn the agricultural sector, Ecuador is a major exporter of bananas (first place worldwide in production and export), flowers, and the eighth largest producer of cocoa. It is also significant the shrimp production, sugar cane, rice, cotton, corn, palm and coffee. The country's vast resources include large amounts of timber across the country, like eucalyptus and mangroves. Pines and cedars are planted in the region of the Sierra, walnuts and rosemary, and balsa wood, on Guayas River Basin.\n\nThe industry is concentrated mainly in Guayaquil, the largest industrial center, and in Quito where in recent years the industry has grown considerably, this city is also the largest business center of the country. Industrial production is directed primarily to domestic market. Despite this, there is limited export of products produced or processed industrially. These include canned foods, liquor, jewelry, furniture and more. A minor industrial activity is also concentrated in Cuenca.\n\nEcuador has negotiated bilateral treaties with other countries, besides belonging to the Andean Community of Nations, and an associate member of Mercosur. It also belongs to the World Trade Organization (WTO), in addition to the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF) and other multilateral agencies. In April 2007, Ecuador paid off its debt to the IMF thus ending an era of interventionism of the Agency in the country. The public finance of Ecuador consists of the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE), the National Development Bank (BNF), the State Bank, the National Finance Corporation, the Ecuadorian Housing Bank (BEV) and the Ecuadorian Educational Loans and Grants.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2009, the government increased social spending, on social welfare, and education from 2.6% to 5.2% of its GDP. Starting in 2007 with an economy surpassed by the economic crisis, Ecuador was subject to a number of economic policy reforms by Government that have helped steer the Ecuadorian economy to a sustained, substantial, and focused to achieve financial stability and social policy. Such policies were expansionary fiscal policies, of access to housing finance, stimulus packs, and limiting the amount of money reserves banks could keep abroad. Ecuadorian government has made huge investments in education and infrastructure throughout the nation, which have improved the lives of the poor.\n\nOn December 12, 2008 President Rafael Correa announced that Ecuador would not pay $30.6m in interest to lenders of a $510m loan, claiming that they were monsters. In addition it claimed that $3.8bn in foreign debt negotiated by previous administrations was illegitimate because it was authorised without executive decree. At the time of the announcement, the country had $5.65bn in cash reserves.\n\nThe following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017. Inflation below 5 % is in green.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8569916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8569916", "title": "English language", "text": "English language\n\nEnglish is a West Germanic language that was first spoken in early medieval England and eventually became a global \"lingua franca\". Named after the Angles, one of the Germanic tribes that migrated to the area of Britain that would later take their name, England, both names ultimately deriving from the Anglia peninsula in the Baltic Sea. It is closely related to the Frisian languages, but its vocabulary has been significantly influenced by other Germanic languages, particularly Norse (a North Germanic language), as well as by Latin and French.\n\nEnglish has developed over the course of more than 1,400 years. The earliest forms of English, a set of Anglo-Frisian dialects brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers in the 5th century, are called Old English. Middle English began in the late 11th century with the Norman conquest of England and was a period in which the language was influenced by French. Early Modern English began in the late 15th century with the introduction of the printing press to London, the printing of the King James Bible and the start of the Great Vowel Shift.\n\nThrough the worldwide influence of the British Empire, Modern English spread around the world from the 17th to mid-20th centuries. Through all types of printed and electronic media, and spurred by the emergence of the United States as a global superpower, English has become the leading language of international discourse and the \"lingua franca\" in many regions and professional contexts such as science, navigation and law.\n\nEnglish is the third most-spoken native language in the world, after Standard Chinese and Spanish. It is the most widely learned second language and is either the official language or one of the official languages in almost 60 sovereign states. There are more people who have learned it as a second language than there are native speakers. English is the most commonly spoken language in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, Ireland and New Zealand, and it is widely spoken in some areas of the Caribbean, Africa and South Asia. It is a co-official language of the United Nations, the European Union and many other world and regional international organisations. It is the most widely spoken Germanic language, accounting for at least 70% of speakers of this Indo-European branch. English has a vast vocabulary, though counting how many words any language has is impossible. English speakers are called \"Anglophones\".\n\nModern English grammar is the result of a gradual change from a typical Indo-European dependent marking pattern with a rich inflectional morphology and relatively free word order to a mostly analytic pattern with little inflection, a fairly fixed SVO word order and a complex syntax. Modern English relies more on auxiliary verbs and word order for the expression of complex tenses, aspect and mood, as well as passive constructions, interrogatives and some negation. Despite noticeable variation among the accents and dialects of English used in different countries and regions—in terms of phonetics and phonology, and sometimes also vocabulary, grammar and spelling—English-speakers from around the world are able to communicate with one another with relative ease.\n\nEnglish is an Indo-European language and belongs to the West Germanic group of the Germanic languages. Old English originated from a Germanic tribal and linguistic continuum along the coast of the North Sea, whose languages are now known as the Anglo-Frisian subgroup within West Germanic. As such, the modern Frisian languages are the closest living relatives of Modern English. Low German/Low Saxon is also closely related, and sometimes English, the Frisian languages, and Low German are grouped together as the Ingvaeonic (North Sea Germanic) languages, though this grouping remains debated. Old English evolved into Middle English, which in turn evolved into Modern English. Particular dialects of Old and Middle English also developed into a number of other Anglic languages, including Scots and the extinct Fingallian and Forth and Bargy (Yola) dialects of Ireland.\n\nLike Icelandic and Faroese, the development of English on the British Isles isolated it from the continental Germanic languages and influences, and has since undergone substantial evolution. English is thus not mutually intelligible with any continental Germanic language, differing in vocabulary, syntax, and phonology, although some, such as Dutch or Frisian, do show strong affinities with English, especially with its earlier stages.\n\nUnlike Icelandic or Faroese, the long history of invasions of the British Isles by other peoples and languages, particularly Old Norse and Norman French, left a profound mark of their own on the language, such that English shares substantial vocabulary and grammar similarities with many languages outside its linguistic clades, while also being unintelligible with any of those languages. Some scholars have even argued that English can be considered a mixed language or a creole—a theory called the Middle English creole hypothesis. Although the high degree of influence from these languages on the vocabulary and grammar of Modern English is widely acknowledged, most specialists in language contact do not consider English to be a true mixed language.\n\nEnglish is classified as a Germanic language because it shares innovations with other Germanic languages such as Dutch, German, and Swedish. These shared innovations show that the languages have descended from a single common ancestor called Proto-Germanic. Some shared features of Germanic languages include the use of modal verbs, the division of verbs into strong and weak classes, and the sound changes affecting Proto-Indo-European consonants, known as Grimm's and Verner's laws. English is classified as an Anglo-Frisian language because Frisian and English share other features, such as the palatalisation of consonants that were velar consonants in Proto-Germanic (see ).\n\nThe earliest form of English is called Old English or Anglo-Saxon (c. 550–1066 CE). Old English developed from a set of North Sea Germanic dialects originally spoken along the coasts of Frisia, Lower Saxony, Jutland, and Southern Sweden by Germanic tribes known as the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes. In the fifth century, the Anglo-Saxons settled Britain as the Roman economy and administration collapsed. By the seventh century, the Germanic language of the Anglo-Saxons became dominant in Britain, replacing the languages of Roman Britain (43–409 CE): Common Brittonic, a Celtic language, and Latin, brought to Britain by the Roman occupation. \"England\" and \"English\" (originally and ) are named after the Angles.\n\nOld English was divided into four dialects: the Anglian dialects, Mercian and Northumbrian, and the Saxon dialects, Kentish and West Saxon. Through the educational reforms of King Alfred in the ninth century and the influence of the kingdom of Wessex, the West Saxon dialect became the standard written variety. The epic poem \"Beowulf\" is written in West Saxon, and the earliest English poem, \"Cædmon's Hymn\", is written in Northumbrian. Modern English developed mainly from Mercian, but the Scots language developed from Northumbrian. A few short inscriptions from the early period of Old English were written using a runic script. By the sixth century, a Latin alphabet was adopted, written with half-uncial letterforms. It included the runic letters \"wynn\" and \"thorn\" , and the modified Latin letters \"eth\" , and \"ash\" .\n\nOld English is very different from Modern English and difficult for 21st-century English speakers to understand. Its grammar was similar to that of modern German, and its closest relative is Old Frisian. Nouns, adjectives, pronouns, and verbs had many more inflectional endings and forms, and word order was much freer than in Modern English. Modern English has case forms in pronouns (\"he\", \"him\", \"his\") and a few verb endings (\"I have\", \"he has\"), but Old English had case endings in nouns as well, and verbs had more person and number endings.\n\nThe translation of Matthew 8:20 from 1000 CE shows examples of case endings (nominative plural, accusative plural, genitive singular) and a verb ending (present plural):\n\nIn the period from the 8th to the 12th century, Old English gradually transformed through language contact into Middle English. Middle English is often arbitrarily defined as beginning with the conquest of England by William the Conqueror in 1066, but it developed further in the period from 1200–1450.\n\nFirst, the waves of Norse colonisation of northern parts of the British Isles in the 8th and 9th centuries put Old English into intense contact with Old Norse, a North Germanic language. Norse influence was strongest in the Northeastern varieties of Old English spoken in the Danelaw area around York, which was the centre of Norse colonisation; today these features are still particularly present in Scots and Northern English. However the centre of norsified English seems to have been in the Midlands around Lindsey, and after 920 CE when Lindsey was reincorporated into the Anglo-Saxon polity, Norse features spread from there into English varieties that had not been in intense contact with Norse speakers. Some elements of Norse influence that persist in all English varieties today are the pronouns beginning with \"th-\" (\"they, them, their\") which replaced the Anglo-Saxon pronouns with ().\n\nWith the Norman conquest of England in 1066, the now norsified Old English language was subject to contact with the Old Norman language, a Romance language closely related to Modern French. The Norman language in England eventually developed into Anglo-Norman. Because Norman was spoken primarily by the elites and nobles, while the lower classes continued speaking Anglo-Saxon, the influence of Norman consisted of introducing a wide range of loanwords related to politics, legislation and prestigious social domains. Middle English also greatly simplified the inflectional system, probably in order to reconcile Old Norse and Old English, which were inflectionally different but morphologically similar. The distinction between nominative and accusative case was lost except in personal pronouns, the instrumental case was dropped, and the use of the genitive case was limited to describing possession. The inflectional system regularised many irregular inflectional forms, and gradually simplified the system of agreement, making word order less flexible. By the Wycliffe Bible of the 1380s, the passage Matthew 8:20 was written\n\nHere the plural suffix on the verb \"have\" is still retained, but none of the case endings on the nouns are present.\n\nBy the 12th century Middle English was fully developed, integrating both Norse and Norman features; it continued to be spoken until the transition to early Modern English around 1500. Middle English literature includes Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\", and Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". In the Middle English period, the use of regional dialects in writing proliferated, and dialect traits were even used for effect by authors such as Chaucer.\n\nThe next period in the history of English was Early Modern English (1500–1700). Early Modern English was characterised by the Great Vowel Shift (1350–1700), inflectional simplification, and linguistic standardisation.\n\nThe Great Vowel Shift affected the stressed long vowels of Middle English. It was a chain shift, meaning that each shift triggered a subsequent shift in the vowel system. Mid and open vowels were raised, and close vowels were broken into diphthongs. For example, the word \"bite\" was originally pronounced as the word \"beet\" is today, and the second vowel in the word \"about\" was pronounced as the word \"boot\" is today. The Great Vowel Shift explains many irregularities in spelling since English retains many spellings from Middle English, and it also explains why English vowel letters have very different pronunciations from the same letters in other languages.\n\nEnglish began to rise in prestige, relative to Norman French, during the reign of Henry V. Around 1430, the Court of Chancery in Westminster began using English in its official documents, and a new standard form of Middle English, known as Chancery Standard, developed from the dialects of London and the East Midlands. In 1476, William Caxton introduced the printing press to England and began publishing the first printed books in London, expanding the influence of this form of English. Literature from the Early Modern period includes the works of William Shakespeare and the translation of the Bible commissioned by King James I. Even after the vowel shift the language still sounded different from Modern English: for example, the consonant clusters in \"knight\", \"gnat\", and \"sword\" were still pronounced. Many of the grammatical features that a modern reader of Shakespeare might find quaint or archaic represent the distinct characteristics of Early Modern English.\n\nIn the 1611 King James Version of the Bible, written in Early Modern English, Matthew 8:20 says:\n\nThis exemplifies the loss of case and its effects on sentence structure (replacement with Subject-Verb-Object word order, and the use of \"of\" instead of the non-possessive genitive), and the introduction of loanwords from French (\"ayre\") and word replacements (\"bird\" originally meaning \"nestling\" had replaced OE \"fugol\").\n\nBy the late 18th century, the British Empire had facilitated the spread of English through its colonies and geopolitical dominance. Commerce, science and technology, diplomacy, art, and formal education all contributed to English becoming the first truly global language. English also facilitated worldwide international communication. As England continued to form new colonies, these, in turn, became independent and developed their own norms for how to speak and write the language. English was adopted in North America, India, parts of Africa, Australasia, and many other regions. In the post-colonial period, some of the newly created nations that had multiple indigenous languages opted to continue using English as the official language to avoid the political difficulties inherent in promoting any one indigenous language above the others. In the 20th century the growing economic and cultural influence of the United States and its status as a superpower following the Second World War has, along with worldwide broadcasting in English by the BBC and other broadcasters, significantly accelerated the spread of the language across the planet. By the 21st century, English was more widely spoken and written than any language has ever been.\n\nA major feature in the early development of Modern English was the codification of explicit norms for standard usage, and their dissemination through official media such as public education and state-sponsored publications. In 1755 Samuel Johnson published his \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" which introduced a standard set of spelling conventions and usage norms. In 1828, Noah Webster published the \"American Dictionary of the English language\" in an effort to establish a norm for speaking and writing American English that was independent from the British standard. Within Britain, non-standard or lower class dialect features were increasingly stigmatised, leading to the quick spread of the prestige varieties among the middle classes.\n\nIn terms of grammatical evolution, Modern English has now reached a stage where the loss of case is almost complete (case is now only found in pronouns, such as \"he\" and \"him\", \"she\" and \"her\", \"who\" and \"whom\"), and where SVO word-order is mostly fixed. Some changes, such as the use of do-support have become universalised. (Earlier English did not use the word \"do\" as a general auxiliary as Modern English does; at first it was only used in question constructions where it was not obligatory. Now, do-support with the verb \"have\" is becoming increasingly standardised.) The use of progressive forms in \"-ing\", appears to be spreading to new constructions, and forms such as \"had been being built\" are becoming more common. Regularisation of irregular forms also slowly continues (e.g. \"dreamed\" instead of \"dreamt\"), and analytical alternatives to inflectional forms are becoming more common (e.g. \"more polite\" instead of \"politer\"). British English is also undergoing change under the influence of American English, fuelled by the strong presence of American English in the media and the prestige associated with the US as a world power. \n\n, 400 million people spoke English as their first language, and 1.1 billion spoke it as a secondary language. English is probably the third largest language by number of native speakers, after Mandarin and Spanish. However, when combining native and non-native speakers it may, depending on the estimate used, be the most commonly spoken language in the world. English is spoken by communities on every continent and on oceanic islands in all the major oceans.\n\nThe countries in which English is spoken can be grouped into different categories by how English is used in each country. The \"inner circle\" countries with many native speakers of English share an international standard of written English and jointly influence speech norms of English around the world. English does not belong to just one country, and it does not belong solely to descendants of English settlers. English is an official language of countries populated by few descendants of native speakers of English. It has also become by far the most important language of international communication when people who share no native language meet anywhere in the world.\n\nBraj Kachru distinguishes countries where English is spoken with a three circles model. In his model, the \"inner circle\" countries are countries with large communities of native speakers of English, \"outer circle\" countries have small communities of native speakers of English but widespread use of English as a second language in education or broadcasting or for local official purposes, and \"expanding circle\" countries are countries where many learners learn English as a foreign language. Kachru bases his model on the history of how English spread in different countries, how users acquire English, and the range of uses English has in each country. The three circles change membership over time.\nCountries with large communities of native speakers of English (the inner circle) include Britain, the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand, where the majority speaks English, and South Africa, where a significant minority speaks English. The countries with the most native English speakers are, in descending order, the United States (at least 231 million), the United Kingdom (60 million), Canada (19 million), Australia (at least 17 million), South Africa (4.8 million), Ireland (4.2 million), and New Zealand (3.7 million). In these countries, children of native speakers learn English from their parents, and local people who speak other languages or new immigrants learn English to communicate in their neighbourhoods and workplaces. The inner-circle countries provide the base from which English spreads to other countries in the world.\n\nEstimates of the number of English speakers who are second language and foreign-language speakers vary greatly from 470 million to more than 1,000 million depending on how proficiency is defined. Linguist David Crystal estimates that non-native speakers now outnumber native speakers by a ratio of 3 to 1. In Kachru's three-circles model, the \"outer circle\" countries are countries such as the Philippines, Jamaica, India, Pakistan, Singapore, and Nigeria with a much smaller proportion of native speakers of English but much use of English as a second language for education, government, or domestic business,\nand where English is routinely used for school instruction and official interactions with the government.\n\nThose countries have millions of native speakers of dialect continua ranging from an English-based creole to a more standard version of English. They have many more speakers of English who acquire English in the process of growing up through day by day use and listening to broadcasting, especially if they attend schools where English is the medium of instruction. Varieties of English learned by speakers who are not native speakers born to English-speaking parents may be influenced, especially in their grammar, by the other languages spoken by those learners. Most of those varieties of English include words little used by native speakers of English in the inner-circle countries, and they may have grammatical and phonological differences from inner-circle varieties as well. The standard English of the inner-circle countries is often taken as a norm for use of English in the outer-circle countries.\n\nIn the three-circles model, countries such as Poland, China, Brazil, Germany, Japan, Indonesia, Egypt, and other countries where English is taught as a foreign language make up the \"expanding circle\". The distinctions between English as a first language, as a second language, and as a foreign language are often debatable and may change in particular countries over time. For example, in the Netherlands and some other countries of Europe, knowledge of English as a second language is nearly universal, with over 80 percent of the population able to use it, and thus English is routinely used to communicate with foreigners and often in higher education. In these countries, although English is not used for government business, its widespread use puts them at the boundary between the \"outer circle\" and \"expanding circle\". English is unusual among world languages in how many of its users are not native speakers but speakers of English as a second or foreign language.\n\nMany users of English in the expanding circle use it to communicate with other people from the expanding circle, so that interaction with native speakers of English plays no part in their decision to use English. Non-native varieties of English are widely used for international communication, and speakers of one such variety often encounter features of other varieties. Very often today a conversation in English anywhere in the world may include no native speakers of English at all, even while including speakers from several different countries.\n\nEnglish is a pluricentric language, which means that no one national authority sets the standard for use of the language. But English is not a divided language, despite a long-standing joke originally attributed to George Bernard Shaw that the United Kingdom and the United States are \"two countries separated by a common language\". Spoken English, for example English used in broadcasting, generally follows national pronunciation standards that are also established by custom rather than by regulation. International broadcasters are usually identifiable as coming from one country rather than another through their accents, but newsreader scripts are also composed largely in international standard written English. The norms of standard written English are maintained purely by the consensus of educated English-speakers around the world, without any oversight by any government or international organisation.\n\nAmerican listeners generally readily understand most British broadcasting, and British listeners readily understand most American broadcasting. Most English speakers around the world can understand radio programmes, television programmes, and films from many parts of the English-speaking world. Both standard and non-standard varieties of English can include both formal or informal styles, distinguished by word choice and syntax and use both technical and non-technical registers.\n\nThe settlement history of the English-speaking inner circle countries outside Britain helped level dialect distinctions and produce koineised forms of English in South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. The majority of immigrants to the United States without British ancestry rapidly adopted English after arrival. Now the majority of the United States population are monolingual English speakers, although English has been given official status by only 30 of the 50 state governments of the US.\n\nEnglish has ceased to be an \"English language\" in the sense of belonging only to people who are ethnically English. Use of English is growing country-by-country internally and for international communication. Most people learn English for practical rather than ideological reasons. Many speakers of English in Africa have become part of an \"Afro-Saxon\" language community that unites Africans from different countries.\n\nAs decolonisation proceeded throughout the British Empire in the 1950s and 1960s, former colonies often did not reject English but rather continued to use it as independent countries setting their own language policies. For example, the view of the English language among many Indians has gone from associating it with colonialism to associating it with economic progress, and English continues to be an official language of India. English is also widely used in media and literature, and the number of English language books published annually in India is the third largest in the world after the US and UK. However English is rarely spoken as a first language, numbering only around a couple hundred-thousand people, and less than 5% of the population speak fluent English in India. David Crystal claimed in 2004 that, combining native and non-native speakers, India now has more people who speak or understand English than any other country in the world, but the number of English speakers in India is very uncertain, with most scholars concluding that the United States still has more speakers of English than India.\n\nModern English, sometimes described as the first global lingua franca, is also regarded as the first world language. English is the world's most widely used language in newspaper publishing, book publishing, international telecommunications, scientific publishing, international trade, mass entertainment, and diplomacy. English is, by international treaty, the basis for the required controlled natural languages Seaspeak and Airspeak, used as international languages of seafaring and aviation. English used to have parity with French and German in scientific research, but now it dominates that field. It achieved parity with French as a language of diplomacy at the Treaty of Versailles negotiations in 1919. By the time of the foundation of the United Nations at the end of World War II, English had become pre-eminent and is now the main worldwide language of diplomacy and international relations. It is one of six official languages of the United Nations. Many other worldwide international organisations, including the International Olympic Committee, specify English as a working language or official language of the organisation.\n\nMany regional international organisations such as the European Free Trade Association, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) set English as their organisation's sole working language even though most members are not countries with a majority of native English speakers. While the European Union (EU) allows member states to designate any of the national languages as an official language of the Union, in practice English is the main working language of EU organisations.\n\nAlthough in most countries English is not an official language, it is currently the language most often taught as a foreign language. In the countries of the EU, English is the most widely spoken foreign language in nineteen of the twenty-five member states where it is not an official language (that is, the countries other than the UK, Ireland and Malta). In a 2012 official Eurobarometer poll, 38 percent of the EU respondents outside the countries where English is an official language said they could speak English well enough to have a conversation in that language. The next most commonly mentioned foreign language, French (which is the most widely known foreign language in the UK and Ireland), could be used in conversation by 12 percent of respondents.\n\nA working knowledge of English has become a requirement in a number of occupations and professions such as medicine and computing. English has become so important in scientific publishing that more than 80 percent of all scientific journal articles indexed by \"Chemical Abstracts\" in 1998 were written in English, as were 90 percent of all articles in natural science publications by 1996 and 82 percent of articles in humanities publications by 1995.\n\nSpecialised subsets of English arise spontaneously in international communities, for example, among international business people, as an auxiliary language. This has led some scholars to develop the study of English as an auxiliary language. Globish uses a relatively small subset of English vocabulary (about 1500 words with highest use in international business English) in combination with the standard English grammar. Other examples include Simple English.\n\nThe increased use of the English language globally has had an effect on other languages, leading to some English words being assimilated into the vocabularies of other languages. This influence of English has led to concerns about language death, and to claims of linguistic imperialism, and has provoked resistance to the spread of English; however the number of speakers continues to increase because many people around the world think that English provides them with opportunities for better employment and improved lives.\n\nAlthough some scholars mention a possibility of future divergence of English dialects into mutually unintelligible languages, most think a more likely outcome is that English will continue to function as a koineised language in which the standard form unifies speakers from around the world. English is used as the language for wider communication in countries around the world. Thus English has grown in worldwide use much more than any constructed language proposed as an international auxiliary language, including Esperanto.\n\nThe phonetics and phonology of the English language differ from one dialect to another, usually without interfering with mutual communication. Phonological variation affects the inventory of phonemes (i.e. speech sounds that distinguish meaning), and phonetic variation consists in differences in pronunciation of the phonemes. This overview mainly describes the standard pronunciations of the United Kingdom and the United States: Received Pronunciation (RP) and General American (GA). (See , below.)\n\nThe phonetic symbols used below are from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).\n\nMost English dialects share the same 24consonant phonemes. The consonant inventory shown below is valid for Californian American English, and for RP.\n\nIn the table, when obstruents (stops, affricates, and fricatives) appear in pairs, such as , , and , the first is fortis (strong) and the second is lenis (weak). Fortis obstruents, such as are pronounced with more muscular tension and breath force than lenis consonants, such as , and are always voiceless. Lenis consonants are partly voiced at the beginning and end of utterances, and fully voiced between vowels. Fortis stops such as have additional articulatory or acoustic features in most dialects: they are aspirated when they occur alone at the beginning of a stressed syllable, often unaspirated in other cases, and often unreleased or pre-glottalised at the end of a syllable. In a single-syllable word, a vowel before a fortis stop is shortened: thus \"nip\" has a noticeably shorter vowel (phonetically, but not phonemically) than \"nib\" (see below).\n\nIn RP, the lateral approximant , has two main allophones (pronunciation variants): the clear or plain , as in \"light\", and the dark or velarised , as in \"full\". GA has dark \"l\" in most cases.\n\nAll sonorants (liquids and nasals ) devoice when following a voiceless obstruent, and they are syllabic when following a consonant at the end of a word.\n\nThe pronunciation of vowels varies a great deal between dialects and is one of the most detectable aspects of a speaker's accent. The table below lists the vowel phonemes in Received Pronunciation (RP) and General American (GA), with examples of words in which they occur from lexical sets compiled by linguists. The vowels are represented with symbols from the International Phonetic Alphabet; those given for RP are standard in British dictionaries and other publications.\n\nIn RP, vowel length is phonemic; long vowels are marked with a triangular colon in the table above, such as the vowel of \"need\" as opposed to \"bid\" . In GA, vowel length is non-distinctive.\n\nIn both RP and GA, vowels are phonetically shortened before fortis consonants in the same syllable, like , but not before lenis consonants like or in open syllables: thus, the vowels of \"rich\" , \"neat\" , and \"safe\" are noticeably shorter than the vowels of \"ridge\" , \"need\" , and \"save\" , and the vowel of \"light\" is shorter than that of \"lie\" . Because lenis consonants are frequently voiceless at the end of a syllable, vowel length is an important cue as to whether the following consonant is lenis or fortis.\n\nThe vowel only occurs in unstressed syllables and is more open in quality in stem-final positions. Some dialects do not contrast and in unstressed positions, so that \"rabbit\" and \"abbot\" rhyme and \"Lenin\" and \"Lennon\" are homophonous, a dialect feature called weak vowel merger. GA and are realised as an \"r\"-coloured vowel , as in \"further\" (phonemically ), which in RP is realised as (phonemically ).\n\nAn English syllable includes a syllable nucleus consisting of a vowel sound. Syllable onset and coda (start and end) are optional. A syllable can start with up to three consonant sounds, as in \"sprint\" , and end with up to four, as in \"texts\" . This gives an English syllable the following structure, (CCC)V(CCCC) where C represents a consonant and V a vowel; the word \"strengths\" is thus an example of the most complex syllable possible in English. The consonants that may appear together in onsets or codas are restricted, as is the order in which they may appear. Onsets can only have four types of consonant clusters: a stop and approximant, as in \"play\"; a voiceless fricative and approximant, as in \"fly\" or \"sly\"; \"s\" and a voiceless stop, as in \"stay\"; and \"s\", a voiceless stop, and an approximant, as in \"string\". Clusters of nasal and stop are only allowed in codas. Clusters of obstruents always agree invoicing, and clusters of sibilants and of plosives with the same point of articulation are prohibited. Furthermore, several consonants have limited distributions: can only occur in syllable-initial position, and only in syllable-final position.\n\nStress plays an important role in English. Certain syllables are stressed, while others are unstressed. Stress is a combination of duration, intensity, vowel quality, and sometimes changes in pitch. Stressed syllables are pronounced longer and louder than unstressed syllables, and vowels in unstressed syllables are frequently reduced while vowels in stressed syllables are not. Some words, primarily short function words but also some modal verbs such as \"can\", have weak and strong forms depending on whether they occur in stressed or non-stressed position within a sentence.\n\nStress in English is phonemic, and some pairs of words are distinguished by stress. For instance, the word \"contract\" is stressed on the first syllable ( ) when used as a noun, but on the last syllable ( ) for most meanings (for example, \"reduce in size\") when used as a verb. Here stress is connected to vowel reduction: in the noun \"contract\" the first syllable is stressed and has the unreduced vowel , but in the verb \"contract\" the first syllable is unstressed and its vowel is reduced to . Stress is also used to distinguish between words and phrases, so that a compound word receives a single stress unit, but the corresponding phrase has two: e.g. \"a burnout\" () versus \"to burn out\" (), and \"a hotdog\" () versus \"a hot dog\" ().\n\nIn terms of rhythm, English is generally described as a stress-timed language, meaning that the amount of time between stressed syllables tends to be equal. Stressed syllables are pronounced longer, but unstressed syllables (syllables between stresses) are shortened. Vowels in unstressed syllables are shortened as well, and vowel shortening causes changes in vowel quality: vowel reduction.\n\nVarieties of English vary the most in pronunciation of vowels. The best known national varieties used as standards for education in non English-speaking countries are British (BrE) and American (AmE). Countries such as Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand and South Africa have their own standard varieties which are less often used as standards for education internationally. Some differences between the various dialects are shown in the table \"Varieties of Standard English and their features\".\n\nEnglish has undergone many historical sound changes, some of them affecting all varieties, and others affecting only a few. Most standard varieties are affected by the Great Vowel Shift, which changed the pronunciation of long vowels, but a few dialects have slightly different results. In North America, a number of chain shifts such as the Northern Cities Vowel Shift and Canadian Shift have produced very different vowel landscapes in some regional accents.\n\nSome dialects have fewer or more consonant phonemes and phones than the standard varieties. Some conservative varieties like Scottish English have a voiceless sound in \"whine\" that contrasts with the voiced in \"wine\", but most other dialects pronounce both words with voiced , a dialect feature called \"wine\"–\"whine\" merger. The unvoiced velar fricative sound is found in Scottish English, which distinguishes \"loch\" from \"lock\" . Accents like Cockney with \"\"h\"-dropping\" lack the glottal fricative , and dialects with \"th\"-stopping and \"th\"-fronting like African American Vernacular and Estuary English do not have the dental fricatives , but replace them with dental or alveolar stops or labiodental fricatives . Other changes affecting the phonology of local varieties are processes such as \"yod\"-dropping, \"yod\"-coalescence, and reduction of consonant clusters.\n\nGeneral American and Received Pronunciation vary in their pronunciation of historical after a vowel at the end of a syllable (in the syllable coda). GA is a rhotic dialect, meaning that it pronounces at the end of a syllable, but RP is non-rhotic, meaning that it loses in that position. English dialects are classified as rhotic or non-rhotic depending on whether they elide like RP or keep it like GA.\n\nThere is complex dialectal variation in words with the open front and open back vowels . These four vowels are only distinguished in RP, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In GA, these vowels merge to three , and in Canadian English, they merge to two . In addition, the words that have each vowel vary by dialect. The table \"Dialects and open vowels\" shows this variation with lexical sets in which these sounds occur.\n\nAs is typical of an Indo-European language, English follows accusative morphosyntactic alignment. Unlike other Indo-European languages though, English has largely abandoned the inflectional case system in favor of analytic constructions. Only the personal pronouns retain morphological case more strongly than any other word class. English distinguishes at least seven major word classes: verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs, determiners (including articles), prepositions, and conjunctions. Some analyses add pronouns as a class separate from nouns, and subdivide conjunctions into subordinators and coordinators, and add the class of interjections. English also has a rich set of auxiliary verbs, such as \"have\" and \"do\", expressing the categories of mood and aspect. Questions are marked by do-support, wh-movement (fronting of question words beginning with \"wh\"-) and word order inversion with some verbs.\n\nSome traits typical of Germanic languages persist in English, such as the distinction between irregularly inflected strong stems inflected through ablaut (i.e. changing the vowel of the stem, as in the pairs \"speak/spoke\" and \"foot/feet\") and weak stems inflected through affixation (such as \"love/loved\", \"hand/hands\"). Vestiges of the case and gender system are found in the pronoun system (\"he/him, who/whom\") and in the inflection of the copula verb \"to be\".\n\nThe seven word classes are exemplified in this sample sentence:\n\nEnglish nouns are only inflected for number and possession. New nouns can be formed through derivation or compounding. They are semantically divided into proper nouns (names) and common nouns. Common nouns are in turn divided into concrete and abstract nouns, and grammatically into count nouns and mass nouns.\n\nMost count nouns are inflected for plural number through the use of the plural suffix -\"s\", but a few nouns have irregular plural forms. Mass nouns can only be pluralised through the use of a count noun classifier, e.g. \"one loaf of bread\", \"two loaves of bread\".\n\nRegular plural formation:\n\nIrregular plural formation:\n\nPossession can be expressed either by the possessive enclitic -\"s\" (also traditionally called a genitive suffix), or by the preposition \"of\". Historically the -s possessive has been used for animate nouns, whereas the \"of\" possessive has been reserved for inanimate nouns. Today this distinction is less clear, and many speakers use -\"s\" also with inanimates. Orthographically the possessive -s is separated from the noun root with an apostrophe.\n\nPossessive constructions:\n\nNouns can form noun phrases (NPs) where they are the syntactic head of the words that depend on them such as determiners, quantifiers, conjunctions or adjectives. Noun phrases can be short, such as \"the man\", composed only of a determiner and a noun. They can also include modifiers such as adjectives (e.g. \"red\", \"tall\", \"all\") and specifiers such as determiners (e.g. \"the\", \"that\"). But they can also tie together several nouns into a single long NP, using conjunctions such as \"and\", or prepositions such as \"with\", e.g. \"the tall man with the long red trousers and his skinny wife with the spectacles\" (this NP uses conjunctions, prepositions, specifiers, and modifiers). Regardless of length, an NP functions as a syntactic unit. For example, the possessive enclitic can, in cases which do not lead to ambiguity, follow the entire noun phrase, as in \"The President of India's wife\", where the enclitic follows \"India\" and not \"President\".\n\nThe class of determiners is used to specify the noun they precede in terms of definiteness, where \"the\" marks a definite noun and \"a\" or \"an\" an indefinite one. A definite noun is assumed by the speaker to be already known by the interlocutor, whereas an indefinite noun is not specified as being previously known. Quantifiers, which include \"one\", \"many\", \"some\" and \"all\", are used to specify the noun in terms of quantity or number. The noun must agree with the number of the determiner, e.g. \"one man\" (sg.) but \"all men\" (pl.). Determiners are the first constituents in a noun phrase.\n\nAdjectives modify a noun by providing additional information about their referents. In English, adjectives come before the nouns they modify and after determiners. In Modern English, adjectives are not inflected, and they do not agree in form with the noun they modify, as adjectives in most other Indo-European languages do. For example, in the phrases \"the slender boy\", and \"many slender girls\", the adjective \"slender\" does not change form to agree with either the number or gender of the noun.\n\nSome adjectives are inflected for degree of comparison, with the positive degree unmarked, the suffix \"-er\" marking the comparative, and \"-est\" marking the superlative: \"a small boy\", \"the boy is smaller than the girl\", \"that boy is the smallest\". Some adjectives have irregular comparative and superlative forms, such as \"good\", \"better\", and \"best\". Other adjectives have comparatives formed by periphrastic constructions, with the adverb \"more\" marking the comparative, and \"most\" marking the superlative: \"happier\" or \"more happy\", \"the happiest\" or \"most happy\". There is some variation among speakers regarding which adjectives use inflected or periphrastic comparison, and some studies have shown a tendency for the periphrastic forms to become more common at the expense of the inflected form.\n\nEnglish pronouns conserve many traits of case and gender inflection. The personal pronouns retain a difference between subjective and objective case in most persons (\"I/me, he/him, she/her, we/us, they/them\") as well as a gender and animateness distinction in the third person singular (distinguishing \"he/she/it\"). The subjective case corresponds to the Old English nominative case, and the objective case is used both in the sense of the previous accusative case (in the role of patient, or direct object of a transitive verb), and in the sense of the Old English dative case (in the role of a recipient or indirect object of a transitive verb). Subjective case is used when the pronoun is the subject of a finite clause, and otherwise, the objective case is used. While grammarians such as Henry Sweet and Otto Jespersen noted that the English cases did not correspond to the traditional Latin based system, some contemporary grammars, for example , retain traditional labels for the cases, calling them nominative and accusative cases respectively.\n\nPossessive pronouns exist in dependent and independent forms; the dependent form functions as a determiner specifying a noun (as in \"my chair\"), while the independent form can stand alone as if it were a noun (e.g. \"the chair is mine\"). The English system of grammatical person no longer has a distinction between formal and informal pronouns of address (the old 2nd person singular familiar pronoun \"thou\" acquired a pejorative or inferior tinge of meaning and was abandoned), and the forms for 2nd person plural and singular are identical except in the reflexive form. Some dialects have introduced innovative 2nd person plural pronouns such as \"y'all\" found in Southern American English and African American (Vernacular) English or \"youse\" and \"ye\" found in Irish English.\n\nPronouns are used to refer to entities deictically or anaphorically. A deictic pronoun points to some person or object by identifying it relative to the speech situation—for example, the pronoun \"I\" identifies the speaker, and the pronoun \"you\", the addressee. Anaphorical pronouns such as \"that\" refer back to an entity already mentioned or assumed by the speaker to be known by the audience, for example in the sentence \"I already told you that\". The reflexive pronouns are used when the oblique argument is identical to the subject of a phrase (e.g. \"he sent it to himself\" or \"she braced herself for impact\").\n\nPrepositional phrases (PP) are phrases composed of a preposition and one or more nouns, e.g. \"with the dog\", \"for my friend\", \"to school\", \"in England\". Prepositions have a wide range of uses in English. They are used to describe movement, place, and other relations between different entities, but they also have many syntactic uses such as introducing complement clauses and oblique arguments of verbs. For example, in the phrase \"I gave it to him\", the preposition \"to\" marks the recipient, or Indirect Object of the verb \"to give\". Traditionally words were only considered prepositions if they governed the case of the noun they preceded, for example causing the pronouns to use the objective rather than subjective form, \"with her\", \"to me\", \"for us\". But some contemporary grammars such as that of no longer consider government of case to be the defining feature of the class of prepositions, rather defining prepositions as words that can function as the heads of prepositional phrases.\n\nEnglish verbs are inflected for tense and aspect and marked for agreement with present-tense third-person singular subject. Only the copula verb \"to be\" is still inflected for agreement with the plural and first and second person subjects. Auxiliary verbs such as \"have\" and \"be\" are paired with verbs in the infinitive, past, or progressive forms. They form complex tenses, aspects, and moods. Auxiliary verbs differ from other verbs in that they can be followed by the negation, and in that they can occur as the first constituent in a question sentence.\n\nMost verbs have six inflectional forms. The primary forms are a plain present, a third-person singular present, and a preterite (past) form. The secondary forms are a plain form used for the infinitive, a gerund-participle and a past participle. The copula verb \"to be\" is the only verb to retain some of its original conjugation, and takes different inflectional forms depending on the subject. The first-person present-tense form is \"am\", the third person singular form \"is\" and the form \"are\" is used second-person singular and all three plurals. The only verb past participle is \"been\" and its gerund-participle is \"being\".\n\nEnglish has two primary tenses, past (preterit) and non-past. The preterit is inflected by using the preterit form of the verb, which for the regular verbs includes the suffix \"-ed\", and for the strong verbs either the suffix \"-t\" or a change in the stem vowel. The non-past form is unmarked except in the third person singular, which takes the suffix \"-s\".\n\nEnglish does not have a morphologised future tense. Futurity of action is expressed periphrastically with one of the auxiliary verbs \"will\" or \"shall\". Many varieties also use a near future constructed with the phrasal verb \"be going to\".\n\nFurther aspectual distinctions are encoded by the use of auxiliary verbs, primarily \"have\" and \"be\", which encode the contrast between a perfect and non-perfect past tense (\"I have run\" vs. \"I was running\"), and compound tenses such as preterite perfect (\"I had been running\") and present perfect (\"I have been running\").\n\nFor the expression of mood, English uses a number of modal auxiliaries, such as \"can\", \"may\", \"will\", \"shall\" and the past tense forms \"could\", \"might\", \"would\", \"should\". There is also a subjunctive and an imperative mood, both based on the plain form of the verb (i.e. without the third person singular \"-s\"), and which is used in subordinate clauses (e.g. subjunctive: \"It is important that he run every day\"; imperative \"Run!\").\n\nAn infinitive form, that uses the plain form of the verb and the preposition \"to\", is used for verbal clauses that are syntactically subordinate to a finite verbal clause. Finite verbal clauses are those that are formed around a verb in the present or preterit form. In clauses with auxiliary verbs, they are the finite verbs and the main verb is treated as a subordinate clause. For example, \"he has to go\" where only the auxiliary verb \"have\" is inflected for time and the main verb \"to go\" is in the infinitive, or in a complement clause such as \"I saw him leave\", where the main verb is \"to see\" which is in a preterite form, and \"leave\" is in the infinitive.\n\nEnglish also makes frequent use of constructions traditionally called phrasal verbs, verb phrases that are made up of a verb root and a preposition or particle which follows the verb. The phrase then functions as a single predicate. In terms of intonation the preposition is fused to the verb, but in writing it is written as a separate word. Examples of phrasal verbs are \"to get up\", \"to ask out\", \"to back up\", \"to give up\", \"to get together\", \"to hang out\", \"to put up with\", etc. The phrasal verb frequently has a highly idiomatic meaning that is more specialised and restricted than what can be simply extrapolated from the combination of verb and preposition complement (e.g. \"lay off\" meaning \"terminate someone's employment\"). In spite of the idiomatic meaning, some grammarians, including , do not consider this type of construction to form a syntactic constituent and hence refrain from using the term \"phrasal verb\". Instead, they consider the construction simply to be a verb with a prepositional phrase as its syntactic complement, i.e. \"he woke up in the morning\" and \"he ran up in the mountains\" are syntactically equivalent.\n\nThe function of adverbs is to modify the action or event described by the verb by providing additional information about the manner in which it occurs. Many adverbs are derived from adjectives with the suffix \"-ly\", but not all, and many speakers tend to omit the suffix in the most commonly used adverbs. For example, in the phrase \"the woman walked quickly\" the adverb \"quickly\" derived from the adjective \"quick\" describes the woman's way of walking. Some commonly used adjectives have irregular adverbial forms, such as \"good\" which has the adverbial form \"well\".\n\nModern English syntax language is moderately analytic. It has developed features such as modal verbs and word order as resources for conveying meaning. Auxiliary verbs mark constructions such as questions, negative polarity, the passive voice and progressive aspect.\n\nEnglish word order has moved from the Germanic verb-second (V2) word order to being almost exclusively subject–verb–object (SVO). The combination of SVO order and use of auxiliary verbs often creates clusters of two or more verbs at the centre of the sentence, such as \"he had hoped to try to open it\".\n\nIn most sentences, English only marks grammatical relations through word order. The subject constituent precedes the verb and the object constituent follows it. The example below demonstrates how the grammatical roles of each constituent is marked only by the position relative to the verb:\n\nAn exception is found in sentences where one of the constituents is a pronoun, in which case it is doubly marked, both by word order and by case inflection, where the subject pronoun precedes the verb and takes the subjective case form, and the object pronoun follows the verb and takes the objective case form. The example below demonstrates this double marking in a sentence where both object and subject is represented with a third person singular masculine pronoun:\n\nIndirect objects (IO) of ditransitive verbs can be placed either as the first object in a double object construction (S V IO O), such as \"I gave Jane the book\" or in a prepositional phrase, such as \"I gave the book to Jane\" \n\nIn English a sentence may be composed of one or more clauses, that may, in turn, be composed of one or more phrases (e.g. Noun Phrases, Verb Phrases, and Prepositional Phrases). A clause is built around a verb and includes its constituents, such as any NPs and PPs. Within a sentence, one clause is always the main clause (or matrix clause) whereas other clauses are subordinate to it. Subordinate clauses may function as arguments of the verb in the main clause. For example, in the phrase \"I think (that) you are lying\", the main clause is headed by the verb \"think\", the subject is \"I\", but the object of the phrase is the subordinate clause \"(that) you are lying\". The subordinating conjunction \"that\" shows that the clause that follows is a subordinate clause, but it is often omitted. Relative clauses are clauses that function as a modifier or specifier to some constituent in the main clause: For example, in the sentence \"I saw the letter that you received today\", the relative clause \"that you received today\" specifies the meaning of the word \"letter\", the object of the main clause. Relative clauses can be introduced by the pronouns \"who\", \"whose\", \"whom\" and \"which\" as well as by \"that\" (which can also be omitted.) In contrast to many other Germanic languages there is no major differences between word order in main and subordinate clauses.\n\nEnglish syntax relies on auxiliary verbs for many functions including the expression of tense, aspect, and mood. Auxiliary verbs form main clauses, and the main verbs function as heads of a subordinate clause of the auxiliary verb. For example, in the sentence \"the dog did not find its bone\", the clause \"find its bone\" is the complement of the negated verb \"did not\". Subject–auxiliary inversion is used in many constructions, including focus, negation, and interrogative constructions.\n\nThe verb \"do\" can be used as an auxiliary even in simple declarative sentences, where it usually serves to add emphasis, as in \"I \"did\" shut the fridge.\" However, in the negated and inverted clauses referred to above, it is used because the rules of English syntax permit these constructions only when an auxiliary is present. Modern English does not allow the addition of the negating adverb \"not\" to an ordinary finite lexical verb, as in \"*I know not\"—it can only be added to an auxiliary (or copular) verb, hence if there is no other auxiliary present when negation is required, the auxiliary \"do\" is used, to produce a form like \"I do not (don't) know.\" The same applies in clauses requiring inversion, including most questions—inversion must involve the subject and an auxiliary verb, so it is not possible to say \"*Know you him?\"; grammatical rules require \"Do you know him?\"\n\nNegation is done with the adverb \"not\", which precedes the main verb and follows an auxiliary verb. A contracted form of not \"-n't\" can be used as an enclitic attaching to auxiliary verbs and to the copula verb \"to be\". Just as with questions, many negative constructions require the negation to occur with do-support, thus in Modern English \"I don't know him\" is the correct answer to the question \"Do you know him?\", but not \"*I know him not\", although this construction may be found in older English.\n\nPassive constructions also use auxiliary verbs. A passive construction rephrases an active construction in such a way that the object of the active phrase becomes the subject of the passive phrase, and the subject of the active phrase is either omitted or demoted to a role as an oblique argument introduced in a prepositional phrase. They are formed by using the past participle either with the auxiliary verb \"to be\" or \"to get\", although not all varieties of English allow the use of passives with \"get\". For example, putting the sentence \"she sees him\" into the passive becomes \"he is seen (by her)\", or \"he gets seen (by her)\".\n\nBoth yes–no questions and \"wh\"-questions in English are mostly formed using subject–auxiliary inversion (\"Am I going tomorrow?\", \"Where can we eat?\"), which may require \"do\"-support (\"Do you like her?\", \"Where did he go?\"). In most cases, interrogative words (\"wh\"-words; e.g. \"what\", \"who\", \"where\", \"when\", \"why\", \"how\") appear in a fronted position. For example, in the question \"What did you see?\", the word \"what\" appears as the first constituent despite being the grammatical object of the sentence. (When the \"wh\"-word is the subject or forms part of the subject, no inversion occurs: \"Who saw the cat?\".) Prepositional phrases can also be fronted when they are the question's theme, e.g. \"To whose house did you go last night?\". The personal interrogative pronoun \"who\" is the only interrogative pronoun to still show inflection for case, with the variant \"whom\" serving as the objective case form, although this form may be going out of use in many contexts.\n\nWhile English is a subject-prominent language, at the discourse level it tends to use a topic-comment structure, where the known information (topic) precedes the new information (comment). Because of the strict SVO syntax, the topic of a sentence generally has to be the grammatical subject of the sentence. In cases where the topic is not the grammatical subject of the sentence, frequently the topic is promoted to subject position through syntactic means. One way of doing this is through a passive construction, \"the girl was stung by the bee\". Another way is through a cleft sentence where the main clause is demoted to be a complement clause of a copula sentence with a dummy subject such as \"it\" or \"there\", e.g. \"it was the girl that the bee stung\", \"there was a girl who was stung by a bee\". Dummy subjects are also used in constructions where there is no grammatical subject such as with impersonal verbs (e.g., \"it is raining\") or in existential clauses (\"there are many cars on the street\"). Through the use of these complex sentence constructions with informationally vacuous subjects, English is able to maintain both a topic-comment sentence structure and a SVO syntax.\n\nFocus constructions emphasise a particular piece of new or salient information within a sentence, generally through allocating the main sentence level stress on the focal constituent. For example, \"the girl was stung by a bee\" (emphasising it was a bee and not, for example, a wasp that stung her), or \"The girl was stung by a bee\" (contrasting with another possibility, for example that it was the boy). Topic and focus can also be established through syntactic dislocation, either preposing or postposing the item to be focused on relative to the main clause. For example, \"That girl over there, she was stung by a bee\", emphasises the girl by preposition, but a similar effect could be achieved by postposition, \"she was stung by a bee, that girl over there\", where reference to the girl is established as an \"afterthought\".\n\nCohesion between sentences is achieved through the use of deictic pronouns as anaphora (e.g. \"that is exactly what I mean\" where \"that\" refers to some fact known to both interlocutors, or \"then\" used to locate the time of a narrated event relative to the time of a previously narrated event). Discourse markers such as \"oh\", \"so\" or \"well\", also signal the progression of ideas between sentences and help to create cohesion. Discourse markers are often the first constituents in sentences. Discourse markers are also used for stance taking in which speakers position themselves in a specific attitude towards what is being said, for example, \"no way is that true!\" (the idiomatic marker \"no way!\" expressing disbelief), or \"boy! I'm hungry\" (the marker \"boy\" expressing emphasis). While discourse markers are particularly characteristic of informal and spoken registers of English, they are also used in written and formal registers.\n\nEnglish is a rich language in terms of vocabulary, containing more synonyms than any other language. There are words which appear on the surface to mean exactly the same thing but which, in fact, have slightly different shades of meaning and must be chosen appropriately if a speaker wants to convey precisely the message intended. It is generally stated that English has around 170,000 words, or 220,000 if obsolete words are counted; this estimate is based on the last full edition of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" from 1989. Over half of these words are nouns, a quarter adjectives, and a seventh verbs. There is one count that puts the English vocabulary at about 1 million words—but that count presumably includes words such as Latin species names, scientific terminology, botanical terms, prefixed and suffixed words, jargon, foreign words of extremely limited English use, and technical acronyms.\n\nDue to its status as an international language, English adopts foreign words quickly, and borrows vocabulary from many other sources. Early studies of English vocabulary by lexicographers, the scholars who formally study vocabulary, compile dictionaries, or both, were impeded by a lack of comprehensive data on actual vocabulary in use from good-quality linguistic corpora, collections of actual written texts and spoken passages. Many statements published before the end of the 20th century about the growth of English vocabulary over time, the dates of first use of various words in English, and the sources of English vocabulary will have to be corrected as new computerised analysis of linguistic corpus data becomes available.\n\nEnglish forms new words from existing words or roots in its vocabulary through a variety of processes. One of the most productive processes in English is conversion, using a word with a different grammatical role, for example using a noun as a verb or a verb as a noun. Another productive word-formation process is nominal compounding, producing compound words such as \"babysitter\" or \"ice cream\" or \"homesick\". A process more common in Old English than in Modern English, but still productive in Modern English, is the use of derivational suffixes (\"-hood\", \"-ness\", \"-ing\", \"-ility\") to derive new words from existing words (especially those of Germanic origin) or stems (especially for words of Latin or Greek origin).\n\nFormation of new words, called neologisms, based on Greek and/or Latin roots (for example \"television\" or \"optometry\") is a highly productive process in English and in most modern European languages, so much so that it is often difficult to determine in which language a neologism originated. For this reason, lexicographer Philip Gove attributed many such words to the \"international scientific vocabulary\" (ISV) when compiling \"Webster's Third New International Dictionary\" (1961). Another active word-formation process in English is acronyms, words formed by pronouncing as a single word abbreviations of longer phrases (e.g. \"NATO\", \"laser\").\n\nEnglish, besides forming new words from existing words and their roots, also borrows words from other languages. This adoption of words from other languages is commonplace in many world languages, but English has been especially open to borrowing of foreign words throughout the last 1,000 years. The most commonly used words in English are West Germanic. The words in English learned first by children as they learn to speak, particularly the grammatical words that dominate the word count of both spoken and written texts, are mainly the Germanic words inherited from the earliest periods of the development of Old English.\n\nBut one of the consequences of long language contact between French and English in all stages of their development is that the vocabulary of English has a very high percentage of \"Latinate\" words (derived from French, especially, and also from Latin and other Romance languages). French words from various periods of the development of French now make up one-third of the vocabulary of English. Words of Old Norse origin have entered the English language primarily from the contact between Old Norse and Old English during colonisation of eastern and northern England. Many of these words are part of English core vocabulary, such as \"egg\" and \"knife\".\n\nEnglish has also borrowed many words directly from Latin, the ancestor of the Romance languages, during all stages of its development. Many of these words had earlier been borrowed into Latin from Greek. Latin or Greek are still highly productive sources of stems used to form vocabulary of subjects learned in higher education such as the sciences, philosophy, and mathematics. English continues to gain new loanwords and calques (\"loan translations\") from languages all over the world, and words from languages other than the ancestral Anglo-Saxon language make up about 60% of the vocabulary of English.\n\nEnglish has formal and informal speech registers; informal registers, including child-directed speech, tend to be made up predominantly of words of Anglo-Saxon origin, while the percentage of vocabulary that is of Latinate origin is higher in legal, scientific, and academic texts.\n\nEnglish has a strong influence on the vocabulary of other languages. The influence of English comes from such factors as opinion leaders in other countries knowing the English language, the role of English as a world lingua franca, and the large number of books and films that are translated from English into other languages. That pervasive use of English leads to a conclusion in many places that English is an especially suitable language for expressing new ideas or describing new technologies. Among varieties of English, it is especially American English that influences other languages. Some languages, such as Chinese, write words borrowed from English mostly as calques, while others, such as Japanese, readily take in English loanwords written in sound-indicating script. Dubbed films and television programmes are an especially fruitful source of English influence on languages in Europe.\n\nSince the ninth century, English has been written in a Latin alphabet (also called Roman alphabet). Earlier Old English texts in Anglo-Saxon runes are only short inscriptions. The great majority of literary works in Old English that survive to today are written in the Roman alphabet. The modern English alphabet contains 26 letters of the Latin script: a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z (which also have capital forms: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z).\n\nThe spelling system, or orthography, of English is multi-layered, with elements of French, Latin, and Greek spelling on top of the native Germanic system. Further complications have arisen through sound changes with which the orthography has not kept pace. Compared to European languages for which official organisations have promoted spelling reforms, English has spelling that is a less consistent indicator of pronunciation, and standard spellings of words that are more difficult to guess from knowing how a word is pronounced. There are also systematic spelling differences between British and American English. These situations have prompted proposals for spelling reform in English.\n\nAlthough letters and speech sounds do not have a one-to-one correspondence in standard English spelling, spelling rules that take into account syllable structure, phonetic changes in derived words, and word accent are reliable for most English words. Moreover, standard English spelling shows etymological relationships between related words that would be obscured by a closer correspondence between pronunciation and spelling, for example the words \"photograph\", \"photography\", and \"photographic\", or the words \"electricity\" and \"electrical\". While few scholars agree with Chomsky and Halle (1968) that conventional English orthography is \"near-optimal\", there is a rationale for current English spelling patterns. The standard orthography of English is the most widely used writing system in the world. Standard English spelling is based on a graphomorphemic segmentation of words into written clues of what meaningful units make up each word.\n\nReaders of English can generally rely on the correspondence between spelling and pronunciation to be fairly regular for letters or digraphs used to spell consonant sounds. The letters \"b\", \"d\", \"f\", \"h\", \"j\", \"k\", \"l\", \"m\", \"n\", \"p\", \"r\", \"s\", \"t\", \"v\", \"w\", \"y\", \"z\" represent, respectively, the phonemes . The letters \"c\" and \"g\" normally represent and , but there is also a soft \"c\" pronounced , and a soft \"g\" pronounced . The differences in the pronunciations of the letters \"c\" and \"g\" are often signalled by the following letters in standard English spelling. Digraphs used to represent phonemes and phoneme sequences include \"ch\" for , \"sh\" for , \"th\" for or , \"ng\" for , \"qu\" for , and \"ph\" for in Greek-derived words. The single letter \"x\" is generally pronounced as in word-initial position and as otherwise. There are exceptions to these generalisations, often the result of loanwords being spelled according to the spelling patterns of their languages of origin or proposals by pedantic scholars in the early period of Modern English to mistakenly follow the spelling patterns of Latin for English words of Germanic origin.\n\nFor the vowel sounds of the English language, however, correspondences between spelling and pronunciation are more irregular. There are many more vowel phonemes in English than there are single vowel letters (\"a\", \"e\", \"i\", \"o\", \"u\", \"w\", \"y\"). As a result, some \"long vowels\" are often indicated by combinations of letters (like the \"oa\" in \"boat\", the \"ow\" in \"how\", and the \"ay\" in \"stay\"), or the historically based silent \"e\" (as in \"note\" and \"cake\").\n\nThe consequence of this complex orthographic history is that learning to read can be challenging in English. It can take longer for school pupils to become independently fluent readers of English than of many other languages, including Italian, Spanish, and German. Nonetheless, there is an advantage for learners of English reading in learning the specific sound-symbol regularities that occur in the standard English spellings of commonly used words. Such instruction greatly reduces the risk of children experiencing reading difficulties in English. Making primary school teachers more aware of the primacy of morpheme representation in English may help learners learn more efficiently to read and write English.\n\nEnglish writing also includes a system of punctuation marks that is similar to those used in most alphabetic languages around the world. The purpose of punctuation is to mark meaningful grammatical relationships in sentences to aid readers in understanding a text and to indicate features important for reading a text aloud.\n\nDialectologists identify many English dialects, which usually refer to regional varieties that differ from each other in terms of patterns of grammar, vocabulary, and pronunciation. The pronunciation of particular areas distinguishes dialects as separate regional accents. The major native dialects of English are often divided by linguists into the two extremely general categories of British English (BrE) and North American English (NAE). There also exists a third common major grouping of English varieties: Southern Hemisphere English, the most prominent being Australian and New Zealand English.\n\nAs the place where English first evolved, the British Isles, and particularly England, are home to the most diverse dialects. Within the United Kingdom, the Received Pronunciation (RP), an educated dialect of South East England, is traditionally used as the broadcast standard and is considered the most prestigious of the British dialects. The spread of RP (also known as BBC English) through the media has caused many traditional dialects of rural England to recede, as youths adopt the traits of the prestige variety instead of traits from local dialects. At the time of the Survey of English Dialects, grammar and vocabulary differed across the country, but a process of lexical attrition has led most of this variation to disappear.\n\nNonetheless this attrition has mostly affected dialectal variation in grammar and vocabulary, and in fact, only 3 percent of the English population actually speak RP, the remainder speaking regional accents and dialects with varying degrees of RP influence. There is also variability within RP, particularly along class lines between Upper and Middle-class RP speakers and between native RP speakers and speakers who adopt RP later in life. Within Britain, there is also considerable variation along lines of social class, and some traits though exceedingly common are considered \"non-standard\" and are associated with lower class speakers and identities. An example of this is H-dropping, which was historically a feature of lower-class London English, particularly Cockney, and can now be heard in the local accents of most parts of England—yet it remains largely absent in broadcasting and among the upper crust of British society.\n\nEnglish in England can be divided into four major dialect regions, Southwest English, South East English, Midlands English, and Northern English. Within each of these regions several local subdialects exist: Within the Northern region, there is a division between the Yorkshire dialects, and the Geordie dialect spoken in Northumbria around Newcastle, and the Lancashire dialects with local urban dialects in Liverpool (Scouse) and Manchester (Mancunian). Having been the centre of Danish occupation during the Viking Invasions, Northern English dialects, particularly the Yorkshire dialect, retain Norse features not found in other English varieties.\n\nSince the 15th century, southeastern England varieties centred around London, which has been the centre from which dialectal innovations have spread to other dialects. In London, the Cockney dialect was traditionally used by the lower classes, and it was long a socially stigmatised variety. The spread of Cockney features across the south-east led the media to talk of Estuary English as a new dialect, but the notion was criticised by many linguists on the grounds that London had influencing neighbouring regions throughout history. Traits that have spread from London in recent decades include the use of intrusive R (\"drawing\" is pronounced \"drawring\" ), \"t\"-glottalisation (\"Potter\" is pronounced with a glottal stop as \"Po'er\" ), and the pronunciation of \"th-\" as (\"thanks\" pronounced \"fanks\") or (\"bother\" pronounced \"bover\"). \n\nScots is today considered a separate language from English, but it has its origins in early Northern Middle English and developed and changed during its history with influence from other sources, particularly Scots Gaelic and Old Norse. Scots itself has a number of regional dialects. And in addition to Scots, Scottish English are the varieties of Standard English spoken in Scotland, most varieties are Northern English accents, with some influence from Scots.\n\nIn Ireland, various forms of English have been spoken since the Norman invasions of the 11th century. In County Wexford, in the area surrounding Dublin, two extinct dialects known as Forth and Bargy and Fingallian developed as offshoots from Early Middle English, and were spoken until the 19th century. Modern Irish English, however, has its roots in English colonisation in the 17th century. Today Irish English is divided into Ulster English, the Northern Ireland dialect with strong influence from Scots, as well as various dialects of the Republic of Ireland. Like Scottish and most North American accents, almost all Irish accents preserve the rhoticity which has been lost in the dialects influenced by RP.\n\nNorth American English is fairly homogeneous compared to British English. Today, American accent variation is often increasing at the regional level and decreasing at the very local level, though most Americans still speak within a phonological continuum of similar accents, known collectively as General American (GA), with differences hardly noticed even among Americans themselves (such as Midland and Western American English). In most American and Canadian English dialects, rhoticity (or \"r\"-fulness) is dominant, with non-rhoticity (\"r\"-dropping) becoming associated with lower prestige and social class especially after World War II; this contrasts with the situation in England, where non-rhoticity has become the standard.\n\nSeparate from GA are American dialects with clearly distinct sound systems, historically including Southern American English, English of the coastal Northeast (famously including Eastern New England English and New York City English), and African American Vernacular English, all of which are historically non-rhotic. Canadian English, except for the Atlantic provinces and perhaps Quebec, may be classified under GA as well, but it often shows the raising of the vowels and before voiceless consonants, as well as distinct norms for written and pronunciation standards.\n\nIn Southern American English, the most populous American \"accent group\" outside of GA, rhoticity now strongly prevails, replacing the region's historical non-rhotic prestige. Southern accents are colloquially described as a \"drawl\" or \"twang,\" being recognised most readily by the Southern Vowel Shift initiated by glide-deleting in the vowel (e.g. pronouncing \"spy\" almost like \"spa\"), the \"Southern breaking\" of several front pure vowels into a gliding vowel or even two syllables (e.g. pronouncing the word \"press\" almost like \"pray-us\"), the pin–pen merger, and other distinctive phonological, grammatical, and lexical features, many of which are actually recent developments of the 19th century or later.\n\nToday spoken primarily by working- and middle-class African Americans, African-American Vernacular English (AAVE) is also largely non-rhotic and likely originated among enslaved Africans and African Americans influenced primarily by the non-rhotic, non-standard older Southern dialects. A minority of linguists, contrarily, propose that AAVE mostly traces back to African languages spoken by the slaves who had to develop a pidgin or Creole English to communicate with slaves of other ethnic and linguistic origins. AAVE's important commonalities with Southern accents suggests it developed into a highly coherent and homogeneous variety in the 19th or early 20th century. AAVE is commonly stigmatised in North America as a form of \"broken\" or \"uneducated\" English, as are white Southern accents, but linguists today recognise both as fully developed varieties of English with their own norms shared by a large speech community.\n\nSince 1788, English has been spoken in Oceania, and Australian English has developed as a first language of the vast majority of the inhabitants of the Australian continent, its standard accent being General Australian. The English of neighbouring New Zealand has to a lesser degree become an influential standard variety of the language. Australian and New Zealand English are each other's closest relatives with few differentiating characteristics, followed by South African English and the English of southeastern England, all of which have similarly non-rhotic accents, aside from some accents in the South Island of New Zealand. Australian and New Zealand English stand out for their innovative vowels: many short vowels are fronted or raised, whereas many long vowels have diphthongised. Australian English also has a contrast between long and short vowels, not found in most other varieties. Australian English grammar aligns closely to British and American English; like American English, collective plural subjects take on a singular verb (as in \"the government is\" rather than \"are\"). New Zealand English uses front vowels that are often even higher than in Australian English.\n\nEnglish is spoken widely in South Africa and is an official or co-official language in several countries. In South Africa, English has been spoken since 1820, co-existing with Afrikaans and various African languages such as the Khoe and Bantu languages. Today about 9 percent of the South African population speak South African English (SAE) as a first language. SAE is a non-rhotic variety, which tends to follow RP as a norm. It is alone among non-rhotic varieties in lacking intrusive r. There are different L2 varieties that differ based on the native language of the speakers. Most phonological differences from RP are in the vowels. Consonant differences include the tendency to pronounce /p, t, t͡ʃ, k/ without aspiration (e.g. \"pin\" pronounced rather than as as in most other varieties), while r is often pronounced as a flap instead of as the more common fricative.\nNigerian English is a dialect of English spoken in Nigeria. It is based on British English, but in recent years, because of influence from the United States, some words of American English origin have made it into Nigerian English. Additionally, some new words and collocations have emerged from the language, which come from the need to express concepts specific to the culture of the nation (e.g. \"senior wife\"). Over 150 million population of Nigerians speak English.\n\nSeveral varieties of English are also spoken in the Caribbean Islands that were colonial possessions of Britain, including Jamaica, and the Leeward and Windward Islands and Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, the Cayman Islands, and Belize. Each of these areas are home both to a local variety of English and a local English based creole, combining English and African languages. The most prominent varieties are Jamaican English and Jamaican Creole. In Central America, English based creoles are spoken in on the Caribbean coasts of Nicaragua and Panama. Locals are often fluent both in the local English variety and the local creole languages and code-switching between them is frequent, indeed another way to conceptualise the relationship between Creole and Standard varieties is to see a spectrum of social registers with the Creole forms serving as \"basilect\" and the more RP-like forms serving as the \"acrolect\", the most formal register.\n\nMost Caribbean varieties are based on British English and consequently, most are non-rhotic, except for formal styles of Jamaican English which are often rhotic. Jamaican English differs from RP in its vowel inventory, which has a distinction between long and short vowels rather than tense and lax vowels as in Standard English. The diphthongs and are monophthongs and or even the reverse diphthongs and (e.g. \"bay\" and \"boat\" pronounced and ). Often word-final consonant clusters are simplified so that \"child\" is pronounced and \"wind\" .\nAs a historical legacy, Indian English tends to take RP as its ideal, and how well this ideal is realised in an individual's speech reflects class distinctions among Indian English speakers. Indian English accents are marked by the pronunciation of phonemes such as and (often pronounced with retroflex articulation as and ) and the replacement of and with dentals and . Sometimes Indian English speakers may also use spelling based pronunciations where the silent found in words such as \"ghost\" is pronounced as an Indian voiced aspirated stop .\n\n"}
{"id": "57903950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57903950", "title": "Esther Morris Leidolf", "text": "Esther Morris Leidolf\n\nEsther Morris Leidolf is a medical sociologist, an intersex activist, US-based writer, the founder of the MRKH Organization, and was the board secretary for the Intersex Society of North America. \n\nEsther Morris Leidolf is a US-based medical sociologist and health worker, writer, the founder of the MRKH Organization, and was the board secretary for the now-defunct Intersex Society of North America. In her roles with ISNA and MRKH Organization, Morris Leidorf spoke at conferences and events, including the LGBTI Health Summit. Her works include \"The Missing Vagina Monologue\". She has stated, \n\nAlongside other activists, Morris Leidolf was critical of a 2006 shift in clinical language from intersex to disorders of sex development. She also appears in the award-winning 2012 documentary Intersexion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5593347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593347", "title": "FAST – Fighting Antisemitism Together", "text": "FAST – Fighting Antisemitism Together\n\nFAST – Fighting Antisemitism Together, is a Canadian human rights activist group which opposes antisemitism and all intolerance. It was founded in 2005 and describes itself as \"a coalition of non-Jewish Canadian community and business leaders dedicated to speaking out against humanity's oldest hatred.\"\n\nFAST was founded by Elizabeth and Tony Comper, former CEO and President of BMO Financial. The organization is unique in that its leadership is largely non-Jewish. FAST is a national non-profit organization with Nicole Miller as Executive Director in Toronto and regional directors in Quebec, British Columbia, Saskatchewan/Manitoba region and Alberta.\n\nFAST sponsors two human rights educational programs, online at no cost to educators and the public: \n1. Choose Your Voice, a series of lesson plans and documentation for students in Grades 6, 7 and 8\n\n2. \"Voices into Action\" - a teaching resource, curriculum-based for grades 9 to 12 and also used for adult education\n\nBoth programs were developed by curriculum experts at OISE-UT and teach people to speak out and take action against racism, antisemitism, homophobia, islamophobia and all intolerance. FAST won the Award of Excellence from the Canadian Race Relations Foundation in 2010 for Choose Your Voice and in 2016 for Voices into Action. Since 2005, Choose Your Voice has been delivered to more than 2.4 million Canadian students and Voices into Action has reached at least 630,000 Canadian students (high school and continuing education) since 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "11612450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11612450", "title": "Financial incentives for photovoltaics", "text": "Financial incentives for photovoltaics\n\nFinancial incentives for photovoltaics are incentives offered to electricity consumers to install and operate solar-electric generating systems, also known as photovoltaics (PV). A government may offer incentives in order to encourage the PV industry to achieve the economies of scale needed to compete where the cost of PV-generated electricity is above the cost from the existing grid. Such policies are implemented to promote national or territorial energy independence, high tech job creation and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions which cause climate change.\n\nWhen, in a given country or territory, the cost of solar electricity falls to meet the rising cost of grid electricity, then 'grid parity' is reached, and in principle incentives are no longer needed. In some places, the price of electricity varies as a function of time and day (due to demand variations). In places where high demand (and high electricity prices) coincide with high sunshine (usually hot places with air conditioning) then grid parity is reached before the cost solar electricity meets the average price of grid electricity.\n\nFour incentive mechanisms are used (often in combination): \n\nInvestment subsidies\n\nWith investment subsidies, the financial burden falls upon the taxpayer, while with feed-in tariffs the extra cost is distributed across the utilities' customer bases. While the investment subsidy may be simpler to administer, the main argument in favour of feed-in tariffs is the encouragement of quality. Investment subsidies are paid out as a function of the nameplate capacity of the installed system and are independent of its actual power yield over time, so reward overstatement of power, and tolerate poor durability and maintenance.\n\nFeed-in Tariffs (FiT)\n\nWith feed-in tariffs, the initial financial burden falls upon the consumer. Feed-in tariffs reward the number of kilowatt-hours produced over a long period of time, but because the rate is set by the authorities may result in overpayment of the owner of the PV installation. The price paid per kWh under a feed-in tariff exceeds the price of grid electricity.\n\nNet metering\n\n\"Net metering\" refers to the case where the price paid by the utility is the same as the price charged, often achieved by having the electricity meter spin backwards as electricity produced by the PV installation in excess of the amount being used by the owner of the installation is fed back into the grid.\n\nSolar Renewable Energy Credits (SRECs)\n\nAlternatively, SRECs allow for a market mechanism to set the price of the solar generated electricity subsidy. In this mechanism, a renewable energy production or consumption target is set, and the utility (more technically the Load Serving Entity) is obliged to purchase renewable energy or face a fine (Alternative Compliance Payment or ACP). The producer is credited for an SREC for every 1,000 kWh of electricity produced. If the utility buys this SREC and retires it, they avoid paying the ACP. In principle this system delivers the cheapest renewable energy, since the all solar facilities are eligible and can be installed in the most economic locations. Uncertainties about the future value of SRECs has led to SREC contract markets long-term to give clarity to their prices and allow solar developers to pre-sell/hedge their SRECs.\n\n\"Quick overview\"\n\nSmart meters allow the retail price to vary as a function of time (\"time of use pricing\"). When demand is high the retail price is high and vice versa. With time-of-use pricing, when peak demand coincides with hot sunny days, the cost of solar electricity is closer to the price of grid electricity, and grid parity will be reached earlier than if one single price were used for grid electricity.\n\nThe Japanese government through its Ministry of International Trade and Industry ran a successful programme of subsidies from 1994 to 2003. By the end of 2004, Japan led the world in installed PV capacity with over 1.1 GW.\n\nIn 2004, the German government introduced the first large-scale feed-in tariff system, under a law known as the 'EEG' (see below) which resulted in explosive growth of PV installations in Germany. At the outset the Feed-in Tariff (FIT) was over 3x the retail price or 8x the industrial price. The principle behind the German system is a 20-year flat rate contract. The value of new contracts is programmed to decrease each year, in order to encourage the industry to pass on lower costs to the end users.\n\nIn October 2008, Spain, Italy, Greece and France introduced feed-in tariffs. None have replicated the programmed decrease of FIT in new contracts though, making the German incentive less attractive compared to other countries. The French FIT offers a uniquely high premium for building integrated systems.\n\nIn 2006 California approved the 'California Solar Initiative', offering a choice of investment subsidies or FIT for small and medium systems and a FIT for large systems. The small-system FIT of $0.39 per kWh (far less than EU countries) expires in just 5 years, and the residential investment incentive is overwhelmed by a newly required time-of-use tariff, with a net cost increase to new systems. All California incentives are scheduled to decrease in the future depending as a function of the amount of PV capacity installed.\n\nAt the end of 2006, the Ontario Power Authority (Canada) began its Standard Offer Program, the first in North America for small renewable projects (10MW or less). This guarantees a fixed price of $0.42 CDN per kWh for PV and $0.11 CDN per kWh for other sources (i.e., wind, biomass, hydro) over a period of twenty years. Unlike net metering, all the electricity produced is sold to the OPA at the SOP rate. The generator then purchases any needed electricity at the current prevailing rate (e.g., $0.055 per kWh). The difference should cover all the costs of installation and operation over the life of the contract.\n\nThe price per Kilowatt hour (kWh) or kW of the FIT or investment subsidies is only one of three factors that stimulate the installation of PV. The other two factors are insolation (the more sunshine, the less capital is needed for a given power output) and administrative ease of obtaining permits and contracts (Southern European countries are reputedly complex). For example, Greece, at the end of 2008, had 3GWp of permit requests unprocessed and halted new applications.\n\nThe most significant incentives programs are listed here.\n\nAustralia is a federation of states and territories. Each state has different laws regarding feed-in tariffs. The states have a range of policies from no feed-in tariffs to feed-in tariffs at more than double the normal consumer price of electricity. Some states are considering feed-in tariffs but have not yet enacted relevant legislation, or the legislation has not yet come into effect. Only a small proportion are Gross Feed-in tariffs (proposed NSW and ACT), most are on a net basis. In the Northern Territory at present only the Alice Springs Solar City is eligible for feed-in tariffs for solar PV.\n\n\nBulgarian regulator DKER\n\nRemuneration for 25-year contract, with possible next year changes set related to 2 components (electricity sales price previous year, RES component).\n\nOverview of Federal and provincial incentives at Canadian Solar Industry Association (CanSIA).\n\nIn 2006 the Ontario Power Authority introduced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program. This program was replaced with the 2009 Feed-In Tariff program for renewable energy (FIT). The FIT program is further divided into the MicroFIT program for projects less than 10 kW, designed to encourage individuals and households to generate renewable energy.\n\nThe program was launched in September 2009 and the tariffs were fixed then. The solar projects ≤10 kW received $0.802, however, as of 13 August 2010 ground mounted systems will receive a lower tariff than rooftop mounted systems.\n\nFeed-In tariff rates for the Ontario Power Authority (OPA) FIT and MicroFIT Programs, for renewable generation capacity of 10MW or less, connected at 50 kV:\n\nRooftop ≤10 kW $0.802/kWh CDN\nGround Mounted ≤10 kW $0.642/kWh CDN\nRooftop > 10 ≤ 250 kW $0.713/kWh CDN\nRooftop > 250 ≤ 500 kW $0.635/kWh CDN\nRooftop > 500 kW $0.539/kWh CDN\nGround Mounted2 > 10 kW $0.443/kWh CDN\n\n\nTariffs vary based on fuel type and size of installation. The contract duration with the OPA is 20 years, with a constant remuneration for solar, though biomass, biogas, hydro, and wind receive a 20% of Consumer Price Index price adder. Additionally, biomass, biogas, hydro receive a 35% peak demand adder during peak demand periods of the day and -10% off peak. Finally, all but solar may also qualify for a community and aboriginal price adder. All power produced is sold to the OPA. Generator then purchases back what is needed at prevailing rate (e.g., $0.055/kWh CDN). The intent of the Feed-In Tariff program is to provide an 11% return on investment.\n\nIn June 2013, Ontario Canceled Feed-in Tariffs for Large Projects.\n\nAs of March 2007\n\n\nContract duration 12 years\n\nPrice calculated in Croatian Kuna, exchange rate used for conversion of above rates 1 EUR = 7.48 HRK.\n\nAs of 2010 feed-in tariffs are 12.25 CZK/kWh for <=30 kW and 12.15 for >30 kW. Contract duration is 20 years with yearly increase linked to inflation (within range 2 - 4%). New contract prices are changed for 5% yearly, due to unexpected rise of number of installations in 2009 new bill is proposed allowing 25% change.\n\nAs of August 2011 a national feed-in tariff for solar projects was issued,\nand is about US$0.15 per kWh.\n\nBacked by the Chinese government’s total stimulus package of RMB 4 trillion ($585bn), Chinese businesses are now among the top producers of electric vehicles, wind turbines, solar panels and energy efficient appliances, according to a report released last month by London-based The Climate Group. In March 2009, the China government introduced the \"Solar Roofs Plan\" for promoting the application of solar PV building. The Ministry of Finance in July re-introduced the \"Golden Sun Project\" with more specific details of the related policy. The policy provides that the grid-connected photovoltaic power generation project, the state will in principle by photovoltaic power generation system and its supporting transmission and distribution projects to give 50% of the total investment subsidies. The subsidy will rise to 70% for solar power systems in remote areas that are not currently connected to the grid. Projects with a minimum capacity of 500MW would be eligible for the related incentive. All such financial incentive schemes boosts most of the new development in China solar market, such as the new thin film solar plant of Anwell Technologies and Tianwei, as well as the contract signed by LDK solar to install up to 500 MW of capacity of PV stations over the next five years in Jiangsu Province of China.\n\nHowever, there still is no clarity on Feed-in-Tariffs for domestic installations within China.\n\nFor current situation, consult the modified 2011 Feed in Tariff Arrêté.\n\nConditions expected to change on 1 September 2016.\n\nThe Renewable Energy Sources Act ( or EEG) came into effect in 2000 and has been adapted by many countries around the world. It was amended several times and triggered an unprecedented boom in solar electricity production. This success is largely due to the creation of favourable political framework conditions.\n\nGrid operators are legally obliged to pay producers of solar electricity a fixed remuneration (feed-in tariff or FIT) for solar generated electricity fed into the grid, depending on the size and type of the system, as well as the year of installation. The tariffs vary to account for the different costs of rooftop or ground-mounted systems in accordance with the size of the system and system cost reductions over time. Since the EEG guarantees the FIT payments for a duration of 20 years, it provides sustained planning security for investors in PV systems. Grid parity for large installation and small roof-top systems was already reached in 2011 and 2012, respectively.\n\nAs of July 2014, feed-in tariffs for photovoltaic systems range from 12.88¢/kWh for small roof-top system to 8.92¢/kWh for large utility scaled solar parks. Feed-in tariffs are restricted to a maximum system capacity of 10MW. The feed-in tariff for solar PV is declining at a faster rate than for any other renewable technology.\n\nOn 1 August 2014, a revised Renewable Energy Sources Act entered into force. Specific deployment corridors now stipulate the extent to which renewable energy is to be expanded in the future and the funding rates (feed-in tariffs) will no longer be fixed by the government, but will be determined by auction.\n\nSituation as of 2009.\nNew PV FIT law introduced 15 January 2009.\n\n\nContract duration 20 years, indexed to 25% of annual inflation.\nNew contract prices to reduce 1% per month starting 2010.\n\nSpecial program with higher FIT but no tax rebates planned to drive 750MW installations of BIPV.\n\nInvestment subsidies: Tax rebates and grants (40%) are available.\n\nThe Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) provides revolving fund to financing and leasing companies offering affordable credit for the purchase of PV systems in India.\n\nState Utilities are mandated to buy green energy via a Power Purchase Agreement from Solar Farms\n\nThe Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has launched a new scheme (Jan 2008) for installation of Solar Power Plants. For the producer, a Generation-based subsidy is available up to Rs. 12/kWh (€0.21/kWh) from the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, in addition to the price paid by the State Utility for 10 years. \n\nThe State Electricity Regulatory Commissions are setting up preferential tariffs for Solar Power\n\nRajasthan - Rs. 15.6 (€0.27) per kWh (proposed)\nWest Bengal - Rs. 12.5 (€0.22) per kWh (proposed)\nPunjab - Rs. 8.93 (€0.15) per kWh \n\n80% accelerated depreciation\nConcessional duties on import of raw materials\nExcise duty exemption on certain devices\n\nSolar PV has been excluded from the last three REFIT feed-in tariff programs (which are solely targeted at large scale producers). No commercial scale solar installations have been built in Ireland.\n\nResidential and Micro scale Solar receives no grant aid, no subsidy and no tax deductions are available. No Feed-In tariffs are available for these customers and net-metering is similarly unavailable. Co-operative and privately shared electricity between separate properties is illegal. A 9c/kWh Feed-In tariff was available from Electric Ireland until December 2014, when it was withdrawn without replacement. Income from this feed-in tariff was subject to income tax at up to 58%. No other Micro-scale Feed-In tariffs are available.\n\nHomeowners with grid connected PV systems are charged a €9.45 per billing cycle \"low-usage surcharge\" for importing less than 2kWh per day or being a net exporter of energy in a billing period.\n\nThe Ministry for Industry issued a decree on 5 August 2005 that provides the legal framework for the system known as \"\". The following incentive tariffs are from the decree of 19 Feb 2007.\n\nContract duration 20 years, constant remuneration.\n\nOn March 8, 2011, a government decree has cancelled this regime: new installations from June 1, 2011, will receive lower tariffs. The exact amounts will be decided during the month of April 2011.\n\nThe former incentive programme run by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry was stopped in 2005.\n\nAs of October 2009\n\n\nAs of July 2010\n\n\nAs of 2013\n\nContract duration 20 years\n\nAs of January 2010\n\n\nAs of January 2012\n\n\nContract duration 12 years\n\nAs of December 2010\n\n\nContract duration 15 years\n\n2016:\nOnly rooftop and below 30 kW. €0,088/kW (88,91 €/MWH). But all three DSO has \"Stop stav\" - they refuse connection.\n\nThere is only connection of PV without subsidy.\n\nSituation as of Oct 11 2006.\n\nFeed-in Tariffs:\n\nAdditional subsidies available.\n\nContract duration 15 years, constant remuneration\n\nSituation as of 2009\n\nNo change since September 2008: the legal framework is the Real Decreto (royal decree) 1578/2008 replacing 436/2004 modified by Real Decreto 1634/2006.\n\nFeed-in Tariff:\n\nBuilding mounted\nGround mounted\n\nThese feed in tariffs are capped at approximately 500 MW/y, of which 241 MW ground mounted, 233 MW building mounted >20 MW, 26.7 MW <20 MW building mounted.\n\nSituation as of 2009\n\nThe Bureau of Energy under Taiwan's Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) has announced the proposed feed-in tariff rates for photovoltaic (PV) and other types of renewable energy in September. A tentative rates of NT$8.1243-9.3279 (US$0.250-0.287) per kilowatt-hour (kwh) has been set for PV generated power, however, the proposed rates have fallen considerably short of local solar players' expectations. Public hearing will be held on 24 Sept to collect opinions from all parties concerned.\n\n\"Amending the Law on Utilization of Renewable Energy Resources in Electricity Generation\" (Law No: 6094) (enacted 29 December 2010, published in the Official Gazette dated 8 January 2011 and numbered 27809) (\"Amendment Law\")\n\nThe Amendment Law introduces significant amendments to improve the incentive mechanism under the Renewable Energy Law and encourage renewable energy investment opportunities in Turkey – the following are the main amendments and incentives:\n\nAccording to the Amendment Law, the applicable sale tariffs within the scope of the RES Support Mechanism are as follows (for solar):\nSolar power based production facility 13,3 dollar cent/kWh\n\nAs of November 2010, the UK Government has introduced a feed-in tariff for small scale (up to 5MW) renewables from 1 April 2010, with a review in 2012 for changes on 1 April 2013. Though limits on max MW installations will be announced in December to steer away from large solar utilities.\n\n43.3 p/kWh < 4 kW > 37.9 p/kWh < 10 kW > 32.8 p/kWh < 100 kW > 30.7 p/kWh\n\ni.e. 43.3 pence/kWh fed in from a less than (or equals?) 4 kW peak power installation\n\n37.9 p/kWh for >(or=?) 4 kW <(or=?) 10 kW\n\n32.8 p/kWh for >(or=?) 10 kW <(or=?) 100 kW\n\n30.7 p/kWh for >(or=?) 100 kW\n\nStand alone installation: 30.7 p/kWh\n\nFrom 1 August 2011, the tariff rate for > 50 KW will be 19.0 p/kwh.\n\nTypical domestic (< 4 kW peak?) installations registered (on or?) after December 12, 2011 will attract only (~)21 p/kWh.\n\nFederal tax Grant of 30%, which expires December 31, 2011, or a Federal tax credit of 30%, which expires December 31, 2016 are available for residential systems and businesses. Details of this and state incentives are summarized at DSIRE. \nLegislation currently under consideration in Congress:\n\"Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008\" This multifaceted energy bill would extend investment tax credit. By June 2008, it had passed the House but had not overcome opposition from Senate Republicans who had filibustered it over tax provisions that would finance the program. In September 2008, it passed in the Senate with amendments.\n\nStarting January 1, 2007\n\nAdministrative basis: California Public Utilities Commission (PUC) decision of August 24, 2006\n\nFeed-in Tariffs and Investment subsidies :\n\nContract duration 5 years, constant remuneration\n\nNet metering\n\nApproved equipment\n\nColorado became the first U.S. state to create a Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) under Amendment 37 in November 2004. amended in March 2007\n\nInvestor-owned utilities serving 40,000 or more customers to generate or purchase 10% of their retail electric sales from renewable-energy resources as well as a rebate program for customers \nUtilities must provide increasing proportions of renewable or recycled energy in their electricity sales in Colorado:\n3% in 2007; 5% in 2008-2010; 10% in 2011-2014; 15% in 2015-2019; and 20% in 2020 and thereafter.\nAt least 4% of the standard must be generated by solar-electric technologies, half of which must be generated at the customer.\nCooperatives and municipal utilities must follow a lower scale culminating in 10% in 2020.\nThe 2007 amendments directed the Colorado Public Utility Commission (PUC) to revise or clarify its existing RPS rules on or before October 1, 2007. The PUC's rules generally apply to investor-owned utilities.\n\nAccording to Green Power Network in 2006, U.S. tradable renewable energy credits (RECs) traded between ¢0.5 and 9.0/kWh. Many were at ¢2/kWh ($5–90/MWh)\n\nNet metering::\n\nMany states have counties and utilities which offer rebates of from $500 to $4/watt installed, as well as feed-in tariffs of up to $1.50/kWh. See reference for list. 40 states have net metering. See reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5761051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761051", "title": "Government off-the-shelf", "text": "Government off-the-shelf\n\nGovernment off-the-shelf (GOTS) is a term for software and hardware government products that are ready to use and which were created and are owned by a government agency.\n\nTypically GOTS are developed by the technical staff of the government agency for which it is created. It is sometimes developed by an external entity, but with funding and specification from the agency. Because agencies can directly control all aspects of GOTS products, these are sometimes preferred for government purposes.\n\nGOTS software solutions can normally be shared among government agencies without additional cost. GOTS hardware solutions are typically provided at cost (i.e., R&D costs not recouped).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56841459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56841459", "title": "Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam", "text": "Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam\n\nHaryana Raxil drug purchase scam case is a case under investigation by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Bhupinder Singh Hooda for the illegal purchase of Raxil fungicide which resulted in INR80 crore (800 million) loss to the government. This scam, initially exposed by Ashok Khemka, is also pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.\n\nThere are a total of 6 CBI cases and several other vigilance department investigations against Hooda underway. Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating several scams, mostly related to illegal land grab, that took place during his rule in Haryana. These investigations include the Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam, Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam, Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab scam, Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case, Garhi Sampla Uddar Gagan land scam, Panchkula-HUDA Industrial plots allotment scam, AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam and Haryana Forestry scam case. He has been already chargesheeted in the Manesar-Gurugram land scam, while other cases are still under investigation (c. March 2018).\n\nRaxil, manufactured by Bayer, is used to treat the seeds for Karnal bunt. Hooda government had purchased Raxil worth INR 100 crore for the treatment of seeds to be distributed to the farmers. Raxil, which is not registered with the Pesticide Management Bord and costs INR1350 per kg, was preferred over the generic brands which cost only INR300 per kg. In spite of this, Raxil was the sole drug recommended by the Hooda administration. As a result, there is a High Court case underway for causing the loss to government for preferring only one drug, that too an unregistered and expensive drug, over other drugs. Use of Raxil was discontinued by the new BJP govenrmnet, case was referred to Parliamentary Standing committee, CVC and High Court, as well as to CBI.\n\nAfter the initial inquiry by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), subsequently, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's BJP Government of Haryana referred the case to CBI to conduct further investigation against Hooda and others. Taking cognizance of the reference sent by Haryana government regarding the alleged multi-crore fungicide (RAXIL) purchase scam, the Union Government issued a notification on Thursday for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the case. Haryana asked for a CBI investigation into the alleged financial corruption as well as the into the reasons under which \"the then MD, HSDC, Ashok Khemka was prematurely transferred out of HSDC on April 4 and a junior departmental officer BS Duggal was posted as MD, HSDC\".\n"}
{"id": "450530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=450530", "title": "Helsinki Committee for Human Rights", "text": "Helsinki Committee for Human Rights\n\nThe Helsinki Committees for Human Rights exist in many European countries (the OSCE region) as volunteer, non-profit organizations devoted to human rights and presumably named after the Helsinki Accords. Formerly organized into the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights (IHF) based in Vienna.\n\nThe Helsinki Committees began as Helsinki Watch groups. The first one was founded in the Soviet Union in 1976, the second in 1977 in Czechoslovakia, the third in 1979 in Poland, etc.\n\nIn 1982, representatives of several of these committees held an International Citizens Helsinki Watch Conference and founded the IHF.\n\nIn 1992, a British Helsinki Human Rights Group was established in the UK, but this group has always been completely independent of the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights. The UK's official representative in the IHF is the British Helsinki Subcommittee of the Parliamentary Human Rights Group, established in 1976.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "252622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252622", "title": "Heterosexism", "text": "Heterosexism\n\nHeterosexism is a system of attitudes, bias, and discrimination in favor of opposite-sex sexuality and relationships. It can include the presumption that other people are heterosexual or that opposite-sex attractions and relationships are the only norm and therefore superior. Although heterosexism is defined in the online editions of the \"American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language\" and the \"Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary\" as anti-gay discrimination or prejudice \"by heterosexual people\" and \"by heterosexuals\", respectively, people of any sexual orientation can hold such attitudes and bias, and can form a part of internalised hatred of one's sexual orientation. Heterosexism as discrimination ranks gay men, lesbians, bisexuals and other sexual minorities as second-class citizens with regard to various legal and civil rights, economic opportunities, and social equality in many of the world's jurisdictions and societies. Heterosexism is often related to homophobia.\n\nWhile the \"Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary\" notes first use of the term heterosexism as having occurred in 1972, the term was first published in 1971 by gay rights activist, Craig Rodwell.\n\nSimilar terms include \"heterocentrism\" and \"heterosexualism\". Although the well-established term \"heterosexism\" is often explained as a coinage modeled on \"sexism\", the derivation of its meaning points more to (1.) \"heterosex(ual)\" + \"-ism\" than (2.) \"hetero-\" + \"sexism\". In fact, the word \"heterosexualism\" has been used as an equivalent to sexism and racism.\n\nGiven this lack of semantic transparency, researchers, outreach workers, critical theorists and LGBT activists have proposed and use terms such as \"institutionalized homophobia\", \"state(-sponsored) homophobia\", \"sexual prejudice\", \"anti-gay bigotry\", \"straight privilege\", \"The Straight Mind\" (a collection of essays by French writer Monique Wittig), \"heterosexual bias\", \"compulsory heterosexuality\" or the much lesser known terms \"heterocentrism\", \"homonegativity\", and from gender theory and queer theory, \"heteronormativity\". However, not all of these descriptors are synonymous to \"heterosexism\".\n\n\"Homophobia\", a form of heterosexism, refers both to \"unreasoning fear of or antipathy towards homosexuals and homosexuality\" and to \"behavior based on such a feeling\". \"Heterosexism\", however, more broadly denotes the \"system of ideological thought that makes heterosexuality the sole norm to follow for sexual practices\". As a bias favoring heterosexuals and heterosexuality, heterosexism has been described as being \"encoded into and characteristic of the major social, cultural, and economic institutions of our society\" and stems from the essentialist cultural notion that maleness-masculinity and femaleness-femininity are complementary.\n\nResearcher, author, and psychology professor Gregory M. Herek states that \"[Heterosexism] operates through a dual process of invisibility and attack. Homosexuality usually remains culturally invisible; when people who engage in homosexual behavior or who are identified as homosexual become visible, they are subject to attack by society.\" Furthermore, in interviews with perpetrators of anti-gay violence, forensic psychologist Karen Franklin points out that \"heterosexism is not just a personal value system, [rather] it is a tool in the maintenance of gender dichotomy.\" She continues by saying that \"assaults on homosexuals and other individuals who deviate from sex role norms are viewed as a learned form of social control of deviance rather than a defensive response to personal threat.\"\n\nIt has been argued that the concept of heterosexism is similar to the concept of racism in that both ideas promote privilege for dominant groups within a given society. For example, borrowing from the racial concept of white privilege, the concept of heterosexual privilege has been applied to benefits of (presumed) heterosexuality within society that heterosexuals take for granted. The analogy is that just as racism against non-white people places white people as superior to people of color, heterosexism places heterosexual people or relationships as superior to non-heterosexual ones. In trying to rebut this premise, some commentators point to differences between the categories of race and sexual orientation, claiming they are too complex to support any generalizations. For example, \"trainer on diversity\" and consultant Jamie Washington has commented, although heterosexism and racism are \"woven from the same fabric\" they are \"not the same thing\". Some American Conservative leaders such as Rev. Irene Monroe comment that those who suggest or state \"gay is the new black\", as in a cover story of \"The Advocate\" magazine, exploit black people's suffering and experiences to legitimize their own. Nonetheless, a study presented at the British Psychological Society's Division of Occupational Psychology 2009 Conference shows that heterosexist prejudice is more pervasive than racism.\n\nHeterosexism can also intersect with racism by further emphasizing differences among arbitrary groups of people. For example, heterosexism can compound the effects of racism by:\n\nLikewise, racism can allow LGBT people to be subjected to additional discrimination or violence if they belong to or are considered a part of a socially devalued racial category. Some of the privileges afforded to people falling into the categories of white people and (perceived) heterosexuals include, but are not limited to, social acceptance, prestige, freedom from negative stereotypes, and the comfort of being within the norm and thereby not being marginalized or viewed as different.\n\nHeterosexism as a set of beliefs and attitudes relies on a core tenet according to which homosexuality and bisexuality do not normally exist and, as such, constitute mental illnesses or deviant behaviors. Within a heterosexist ideology or mindset, the concept of sexual orientation is rejected or deemed irrelevant. A set of more nuanced heterosexist views, which some may consider faith, dogma, universal truths, natural law, appeals to authority, or popular beliefs, but others consider to be conventional wisdom or sociobiological knowledge can include, among others, the following:\n\nIn an attempt to bring awareness to people who exhibit heterosexist views but are possibly not aware of it, Mark Rochlin constructed a set of questions in 1977 which are questions that non-heterosexual people are often exposed to, but not heterosexuals, such as \"What do you think caused your sexuality?\" This heterosexuality questionnaire is often distributed around college campuses to bring awareness of heterosexist sexual prejudice against LGBT persons.\n\nAs well as comprising attitudes held by an individual or a social group, heterosexism can also exist as the expression of attitudes within an institution. As a result, schools, hospitals, and correctional facilities can act as a showcase for heterosexist attitudes in various ways. First, schools may implement these attitudes and ideas through unequal and inconsistent disciplinary actions. One such example is meting out harsher punishment to a same-sex couple violating the school ground rules while allowing a heterosexual couple to pass with an easier and more subtle disciplinary action for an equal or identical violation. Also, hospitals may limit patient visiting only to immediate family, i.e., relatives, and exclude same sex partners.\n\nHeterosexism affects the family in several ways. For example, in many countries around the world, same-sex marriage is not allowed, so non-heterosexual persons must remain unmarried or enter into heterosexual marriage. Many countries also deny rights and benefits to same-sex couples, including custodial and adoption rights for children, Social Security benefits, and automatic durable power of attorney and hospital spousal rights.\n\nPsychologists have aimed to measure heterosexism using various methods. One particular method involves the use of a Likert scale. However, since heterosexism is perceived as something that is unseen it is difficult to determine if someone is heterosexist based on a self-report method. Researchers, thus, have constructed implicit measurements of heterosexism. An example of this would be an Implicit Association Test. A popular implicit association test measuring heterosexism that is open to the public is a virtual laboratory called Project Implicit.\n\nOne limitation present in research on heterosexism is that there often isn’t a distinction between homophobia and heterosexism. Individuals are more likely to be aware of homophobic tendencies rather than heterosexist views, thus, researchers often measure homophobia instead of heterosexism.\n\nResearch on heterosexism has focused on variables that may affect views of heterosexism. For instance, in a study by psychologist, Gregory M. Herek, it was found that there was a gender difference between heterosexual attitudes toward lesbians and gay men. Specifically, the study reveals that heterosexual individuals all seem to have some heterosexist tendency, however, heterosexual males have a greater tendency than heterosexual females to exhibit negative attitudes towards non-heterosexual individuals (this includes gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals). Another notable finding of Herek's study was that heterosexual males showed a greater tendency to demonstrate hostility towards gay men rather than lesbians. Other factors that Herek acknowledges to contribute to heterosexism include individual differences, religiosity, conforming to social norms, right-wing authoritarianism, customs and beliefs regarding cultural tradition, and personal experience with non-heterosexual individuals. Research has also recognized the effects of level of education on views of heterosexism. Wright et al. revealed that higher levels of education, or having more years of education, is related to less homophobic tendencies.\n\nThis type of heterosexism includes anti-gay laws, policies, and institutional practices, harassment based on sexual orientation or perceived sexual orientation; stereotyping, discriminatory language and discourse, and other forms of discrimination against LGBT persons such as:\n\nThis form of heterosexism operates through invisibility, under-representation, and erasure. It includes:\n\nHeterosexism causes a range of effects on people of any sexual orientation. However, the main effects of heterosexism are marginalization, and anti-LGBT violence and abuse.\n\nThe main effect of heterosexism is the marginalization of gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals within society. Heterosexism has led to stigmatization and persecution of not only these people but also those of other sexual diversity such as transgender, and transsexual people. Along with homophobia, lesbophobia, and internalized homophobia, heterosexism continues to be a significant social reality that compels people to conceal their homosexual or bisexual orientation, or metaphorically, to remain in the closet in an effort to pass for heterosexual.\n\nMarginalization also occurs when marriage rights are heterosexist. More specifically, when marriage rights are exclusive to opposite-sex couples, all same-sex couples, be they gay, lesbian, straight or mixed, are prevented from enjoying marriage’s corresponding legal privileges, especially those regarding property rights, health benefits, and child custody. Moreover, such limitation prevents same-sex couples from receiving the inherent social respect of marriage and its cultural symbolism.\n\nYolanda Dreyer, professor of practical theology at University of Pretoria, has claimed that \"Heterosexism leads to prejudice, discrimination, harassment, and violence. It is driven by fear and hatred (Dreyer 5).\" Along the same lines, forensic psychologist Karen Franklin explains violence caused by heterosexism toward both men and women, regardless of their sexual orientations:\n\n[T]hrough heterosexism, any male who refuses to accept the dominant culture's assignment of appropriate masculine behavior is labeled early on as a \"sissy\" or \"fag\" and then subjected to bullying. Similarly, any woman who opposes male dominance and control can be labeled a lesbian and attacked. The potential of being ostracized as homosexual, regardless of actual sexual attractions and behaviors, puts pressure on all people to conform to a narrow standard of appropriate gender behavior, thereby maintaining and reinforcing our society's hierarchical gender structure.\n\nAnother form of heterosexist violence as social control that most often targets lesbian women is corrective rape: a gang rape of a lesbian to \"cure\" her of her same-sex attractions. A notorious example from South Africa is the corrective rape and murder of Eudy Simelane, LGBT-rights activist and member of the women's national football team.\n\nAccording to a Frontline article titled Inside the Mind of People Who Hate Gays, bias-related violence against homosexuals is believed to be widespread in the United States, with perpetrators typically described by victims as young men in groups who assault targets of convenience. Victims accounts suggest that assailants possess tremendous rage and hatred; indeed, documentation of horrific levels of brutality has led gay activists to characterize the violence as political terrorism aimed at all gay men and lesbians. Other motives for antigay violence suggested in the literature include male bonding, proving heterosexuality, and purging secret homosexual desires.\n\nOn singing duo Romanovsky and Phillips' album \"Be Political, Not Polite\", the song \"When Heterosexism Strikes\" discusses possible actions in response to example cases of heterosexism. (lyrics)\n\nAccording to an article in the Howard Journal of Communications, some LGBT individuals have responded to heterosexism through direct confrontation and communication, or through the removal of self from the hostile environment.\n"}
{"id": "3521575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3521575", "title": "Impact calculus", "text": "Impact calculus\n\nIn policy debate, impact calculus is a type of argumentation which seeks to compare the impacts presented by both teams.\n\nThere are three basic types of impact calculus that compare the impacts of the plan to the impacts of a disadvantage:\n\nSome other more sophisticated arguments are also considered impact calculus:\n\nFramework arguments can also be considered impact calculus. Arguments as to why the judge should adopt a utilitarian or consequentialist perspective or conversely a deontological perspective may change the way they compare impacts.\n\nBasic impact calculus arguments may be made at any time and are generally not considered \"new\" arguments, even if brought up for the first time in the 2NR or 2AR. More sophisticated forms of impact calculus should generally be brought up earlier in the debate and evidenced if possible.\n"}
{"id": "29199733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29199733", "title": "Inspectorates-General (Turkey)", "text": "Inspectorates-General (Turkey)\n\nInspectorates-General or General Inspectorates (Turkish: \"Umumi Müfettişlikler\") was a regional governorship whose authorities prevailed over civilian, military and judicial institutions under their domain of the direct command of Mustafa Kemal in order to establishing authoritarian rule and to consolidate the authority in the process of Turkification of religious and ethnic minorities.\n\nThe Turkish Grand National Assembly got the law numbered 1164 and dated June 25, 1927, passed. On January 1, 1928, the First Inspectorate-General (\"Birinci Umumi Müfettişlik\") including Diyarbakır, Elazığ, Urfa, Bitlis, Van, Hakkâri, Siirt ve Mardin provinces, was established with the center in Diyarbakır.\n\nBefore Thrace pogroms, on February 19, 1934, the Second Inspectorate-General (\"İkinci Umumi Müfettişlik\") including Kırklareli, Edirne, Tekirdağ and Çanakkale provinces, was established with the center in Edirne\n\nOn August 25, 1935, the Third Inspectorate-General (\"Üçüncü Umumi Müfettişlik\") including Ağrı, Kars, Artvin, Rize, Trabzon, Gümüşhne, Erzincan and Erzurum provinces, was established with the center in Erzurum.\n\nBefore Dersim Rebellion, on June 6, 1936, the Fourth Inspectorate-General (\"Dördüncü Umumi Müffetişlik\") was established in historical Dersim region that includes Tunceli, Elazığ and Bingöl provinces, with the center in Elazığ.\n"}
{"id": "28498721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28498721", "title": "International Publishers", "text": "International Publishers\n\nInternational Publishers is a book publishing company based in New York City specializing in Marxist works of economics, political science, and history.\n\nInternational Publishers Company, Inc., was founded in 1924 with funds given the project by A. A. Heller. Heller was the radical son of a wealthy jeweler doing business in Paris. He expanded his fortune as head of the International Oxygen Company, a welding supply company that operated a trade concession in Soviet Russia during the time of the New Economic Policy in the early 1920s. A lifelong socialist, Heller had previously been a heavy financial donor to the \"New York Call,\" the Socialist Party's New York daily newspaper. He had been instrumental in funding the purchase of the headquarters building for the Rand School of Social Science.\n\nThe company began with a capital stock of $50,000, paid in by Heller, with the stock subsequently split with Trachtenberg as compensation. Alexander Trachtenberg, a left wing member of the Socialist Party of America associated with the Rand School of Social Science and its publishing house, who joined the Communist movement at the end of 1921, served as manager of International Publishers from its inception through the 1940s.\n\nAccording to testimony before the U.S. Congress by Trachtenberg, in addition to his initial $50,000 investment, Heller continually made up losses incurred by International Publishers during its first 15 years. Over that period, his investment climbed to a total of some $115,000.\n\nThe idea of forming International Publishers seems to have come from Heller and Trachtenberg. Initial assistance came from the Communist Party (then the Workers Party of America), limited to supplying advice and addresses of radical bookstores around America. In a letter dated June 1924 from the party's head Literature Department, Nicholas Dozenberg, cautioned Trachtenberg that Charles H. Kerr & Co. of Chicago had already published many standard titles by Karl Marx, thus limiting the prospects of successful new editions of the same works. Instead, Dozenberg encouraged Trachtenberg to concentrate on \"books not yet published in English written by popular Russian writers like Lenin, Zinoviev, Radek, and others.\"\n\nIn the fall of 1935, International Publishers launched a new program called the \"Book Union.\" This was a radical book-buying circle, modeled on the Book of the Month Club. The Book Union first offered an anthology entitled \"Proletarian Literature in the United States\", nearly 400 pages long and edited by current or future editors of \"The New Masses\": Michael Gold, Granville Hicks, Joseph North, and others. The Book Union collected a $1 annual fee from its members, who then received a discounted volume in the mail each month. The Book Union obliged members to buy 2 of 12 selections during the year. Purchase of four books in a year entitled members to a bonus premium. Despite its aggressively low pricing, the Book Union proved less successful than the Left Book Club operated by Victor Gollancz Ltd in England and seems to have been terminated after just a few years.\n\nOn September 13, 1939, International Publishers Secretary and Treasurer Alexander Trachtenberg was called before the so-called Dies Committee of the US House of Representatives, the Special Committee to Investigate Un-American Activities. Committee members grilled Tractenberg on his own history, the sources of funding behind International Publishers, and the company's relationship to the Communist Party. Trachtenberg characterized the relationship of International Publishers to the Communist Party as merely one of \"buyer and seller.\"\n\nTrachtenberg indicated that International Publishers did not own presses but used the services of a company called Van Rees Press on a contract basis. The firm also exchanged printed sheets for publication with its British sister organization, Lawrence & Wishart, and bought sheets for binding from the forerunner of the official Foreign Languages Publishing House in Moscow. He estimated that some 10% of International Publishers' books had made use of such sources but that a lowering of duty rates on bound books had largely eliminated the economy of importing unbound sheets.\n\nTrachtenberg estimated annual sales by International Publishers at $75,000 to $80,000. He noted that the company had a staff of four.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, International expanded its publication of inexpensive trade paperback books under the title \"New World Paperbacks.\" A number of titles bore this as an alternative company logo.\n\nInternational Publishers has been party to the publication of a number of titles of lasting scholarly importance.\n\nDuring the 1920s, International Publishers produced the first English-language editions of important works on Marxist theory by Karl Kautsky (\"Foundations of Christianity,\" 1925; \"Are the Jews a Race?\" 1926; \"Thomas More and His Utopia,\" 1927), Leon Trotsky (\"Literature and Revolution,\" 1925; \"Wither England?\" 1925; \"Wither Russia?\" 1926), Nikolai Bukharin (\"Historical Materialism,\" 1925, \"The Economic Theory of the Leisure Class,\" 1927; \"Imperialism and World Economy,\" 1929); and Joseph Stalin (\"Leninism,\" 1928).\n\nInternational Publishers worked in conjunction with the Marx-Engels-Lenin Institute in Moscow on three separate publishing initiatives involving the works of V.I. Lenin: an aborted \"Collected Works\" project begun in 1927; a 12-volume \"Selected Works\" project issued 1934-1938 in green bindings; and a revised, 12-volume \"Selected Works\" edition published in blue bindings in 1943. International also joined with the Communist Party of Great Britain's publishing house, Lawrence and Wishart and Progress Publishers (Moscow) to publish the massive, 50-volume \"Collected Works\" of Karl Marx and Frederick Engels, a project launched in 1975 and completed only in 2004.\n\nInternational Publishers was an early reissuer of John Reed's legendary chronicle of the Russian Revolution, \"Ten Days That Shook the World.\" Originally published by Boni & Liveright in 1919, an International Publishers edition came out in 1926 and — except for a time during the reign of Joseph Stalin, when the book fell out of official favor — it has been a mainstay of the publishing house's catalog ever since.\n\nInternational Publishers has also published a considerable number of memoir accounts by leading Communist Party participants, including those of William \"Big Bill\" Haywood (1929), Nadezhda Krupskaya (1930), William Z. Foster (two volumes, 1937 and 1930), Ella Reeve Bloor (1940), Joseph North (1958), W.E.B. Du Bois (1968), Benjamin J. Davis (1969), John Williamson (1969), William L. Patterson (1971), Hosea Hudson (1972), Elizabeth Gurley Flynn (reissue, 1973), Art Shields (two volumes, 1983 and 1986), Gil Green (1984) and Angela Davis (paperback reissue, 1988).\n\nInternational Publishers was also a frequent publisher of prolific labor historian Philip S. Foner and published his landmark, 10-volume \"History of the Labor Movement in the United States\" (1947–1994) as well as his massive five-volume collection \"The Life and Writings of Frederick Douglass\" (1950–1975). The company also published the work of Herbert Aptheker, a historian specializing in African-American history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16006895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006895", "title": "Jackson Katz", "text": "Jackson Katz\n\nJackson T. Katz (born May 7, 1960) is an American educator, filmmaker, and author. He has created a gender violence prevention and education program entitled Mentors in Violence Prevention, which is used by U.S. military and various sporting organizations.\n\nKatz's work centers on violence, media, and masculinities, with an added focus on media literacy. He has made several documentaries on the representation of men and women in media.\n\nKatz is a former high school football player from Swampscott, Massachusetts. The first man to minor in women's studies at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, Katz holds a master's degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Education, and a Ph.D. in cultural studies and education from UCLA, where he studied with Douglas Kellner. He has collaborated with Jean Kilbourne, Sut Jhally, and Byron Hurt.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1998, Katz oversaw Real Men, a grass-roots organization against sexism in Boston.\n\nKatz co-founded Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP) in 1993 at Northeastern University's Center for the Study of Sport in Society. MVP has been implemented by college athletic programs, professional teams (including the New England Patriots and Boston Red Sox), NASCAR, and the United States Marine Corps. The related MVP Strategies 1997, distributes gender violence prevention training materials to U.S. school districts, municipalities, human service programs, corporations, law enforcement agencies, and military services. Katz has personally lectured at many such organizations as well, and has appeared on \"Good Morning America,\" \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"ABC News 20/20.\" His consultative role ranges has ranged from the World Health Organization to The Liz Claiborne Company. In March 2000, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen appointed him to the U.S. Secretary of Defense's Task Force on Domestic Violence in the Military, where he served from 2000-2003.\n\nKatz currently is a paid consultant to the U.S. Air Force bystander intervention training and also acts as Director of the first global gender violence prevention program in the U.S. Marine Corps. Katz and his colleagues have also conducted trainings for the U.S. Army in Iraq, and MVP has been piloted around the world by the U.S. Navy.\n\nKatz advocates the bystander approach to gender violence and bullying prevention. Instead of focusing on women as victims and men as perpetrators of harassment, abuse or violence, the bystander approach concentrates on the role of peers in schools, groups, teams, workplaces and other social units.\n\nIn 2009, after an alleged gang rape in Richmond, California where two dozen teenagers watched and did nothing, Newsweek online reported that, \"a small but growing group of educators is trying to bring what's called 'bystander education' to American schools. While sexual violence prevention programs have typically focused on the victim (discouraging women from walking alone at night, for example) or the perpetrator (reiterating the fact that no means no), the bystander approach emphasizes the role witnesses can play in either supporting or challenging violence.\"\n\nKatz and his colleagues developed one of the first bystander initiatives, the mixed-gender Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP) program, in 1993 at Northeastern University’s Center for the Study of Sport in Society. “Most people think they only have two choices for intervention,” says Katz. “One is to intervene physically right at the point of attack, and the other is to do nothing. And that’s a false set of choices.” As part of the MVP program, students sit in a classroom and talk about the menu of options—from getting a group of friends together to calling 911—available to them. At the heart of the program is a set of scenarios that allow students to imagine what they might do in a variety of situations. Each scenario comes with a list of viable interventions for bystanders.\n\nAccording to Newsweek, research is still needed to determine the effectiveness of bystander-awareness programs in schools, but the initial results are promising. One study found that after the Sioux City School District in Iowa implemented the MVP program, the number of freshman boys who said they could help prevent violence against women and girls increased by 50 percent.\n\nThe bystander programs that have proliferated in recent years on college and high school campuses and in the U.S. military involve both sexes and draw from various violence prevention theories and educational practices. The MVP model was influenced by basic tenets of social justice education. This approach is partly based on the premise that men’s silence in the face of other men’s abusive or violent behavior gives \"implicit consent\" to such behavior.\n\nThe MVP bystander approach frames men’s abuse of women as a societal problem whose roots lie in the institutional structures and cultural practices of a male-dominated society. [24] Thus, the MVP approach emphasizes changing social norms as the key to prevention. By challenging men to speak up and “[change] group dynamics in male peer culture,”this bystander model empowers men to step outside of the victim/perpetrator binary and gives men an opportunity to talk about some of the “dynamics of their interpersonal and group interaction in a safe space.”\n\nJackson Katz presented the Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP) model hoping to put the focus on men to discontinue trends of violent masculinity through creating a model that would invite men into the critical dialogue, instead of painting them as perpetrators or potential perpetrators. Katz realized that there was a frustrating lack of inclusion of men and boys in the gender violence discussion, prompting him to create an education model that was inclusive to men and boys.\n\nThe original MVP model was created as workshops for all-male student athletes; Katz hoped that by working with male student athletes, they could help to stop the spread of ‘rape-supportive’ and ‘battering-supportive’ attitudes by speaking out against the masculine binary that supports gender violence. (Recon, 166) Katz says his initial focus on working with student-athletes stems from the “apathy, defensiveness—and sometimes outright hostility—of male athletic directors, coaches, and student-athletes...men and young men in the…athletic subculture…typically occupy a privileged position in school culture, and particularly in male peer culture.” This is a step towards the bystander approach. By working with boys who typically represented the popular part of school culture, Katz was hoping that these boys would then influence the people around them and in their schools in similar manners. It was important for Katz to ensure that MVP considers male student-athletes as potential mentors for younger kids, able of providing male leadership necessary to stop gender abuse.\n\nKatz’s model generally revolves around simulation and role-playing, as well as large discussion-based group meetings both consisting same-sex and different-sex students. As a part of his college initiative, his MVP model involves “holding three 90-minute sessions each year with each participating college team. A fourth session is scheduled for those student-athletes who wish to be trained further for work with younger students in middle and high school.” These workshops are designed to provide spaces for boys to discuss with each other the concept of masculinity and its definition, as well as its relation to gender abuse and violence. Additionally, Katz recognizes the role of those in positions of authority in schools and athletic teams. As his program has grown and evolved, he has included training of selected male and professional staff working in all sectors of schools and colleges.) In this, he is hoping that the top-down approach will provide role models for young and impressionable students and athletes who are looking for good representation. If these school leaders are able to use their positions of authority as positions of good influence, it will perhaps encourage a change in paradigm that will affect all of those in the school or community.\n\nThe MVP model originally focused on just male student-athletes. Since, the MVP model has expanded its target audience and educational group to “boys and girls, men and women, working together and in single-sex formats…by the mid-1990’s MVP had moved from a near-exclusive focus on the athletic world to general populations of high school and college students, and other institutional settings.” This expansion means that the dialogue around gender abuse and gender binaries is spreading throughout schools across the nation. More frank and honest talk about gender abuse will not only remove many of the stigmas from those who are abused, but will also encourage students to act out and speak out in defense of themselves and each other.\n\nIn his writings, public lectures, and films, Katz argues that gendered understandings and behavior in every arena from interpersonal relationships to the workplace and even politics are influenced by media and popular culture. Focusing on normative portrayals of men in advertising, television, Hollywood films, the entertainment industries, sports, and politics, Katz calls for an examination of \"the poses we strike and the images of masculinity that proliferate in media culture\" as a way to \"illuminate... what's going on in individual men's lives, and in our culture as a whole.\"\n\nKatz further maintains that in spite of variability due to such categories as class, race and ethnicity, \"violence in America is overwhelmingly a gendered phenomenon,\" shaped by \"cultural codes and ideals of masculinity and manhood.\" He argues that \"masculinity\" and \"femininity\" are socially constructed categories, and thus the \"disturbing equation of masculinity with pathological control and violence\" that currently exists in America is not genetically predetermined and can be changed. In the \"Tough Guise\" study guide, co-written with the video producer Jeremy Earp of the Media Education Foundation, Katz underscores his motivation for promoting media literacy: \"By looking critically at how institutions – from media outlets to political institutions to our schools – often play a role in reinforcing constricted, regressive notions of manhood that maintain an unacceptably violent status quo, we might begin to clear some space for individuals, male and female, to live freer lives.\"\n\nKatz's work on images of masculinity in media extends to his examination of \"a crucial but barely explored topic of cultural studies analysis: the role of media culture in the construction of presidential masculinity.\" Katz posits that \"media have become the single most important source of political information and persuasion,\" and that \"education for democracy in this era requires citizens to be media literate.\"\n\nAccording to Katz, part of being politically media literate means understanding how gender functions as a sub-textual force in presidential politics. He asks questions such as \"how does the perceived 'manliness' or 'toughness' of political candidates affect their electoral success? To what degree is the gender gap in presidential politics affected by men's gendered identities and sense of themselves as men, which itself is reinforced by media discourses and portrayals? How does paid political advertising on television – by far the biggest expenditure of funds in presidential campaigns – shape voters' perceptions of the relative 'manliness' of candidates? What are the similarities and differences between how women and men ascertain whether male political figures measure up to the 'masculine ideal' that is circulating in media culture at a given historical moment? Which mediated (white) masculine styles or archetypes have been politically successful over the past fifty years, and why?\"\n\nIn an article about the Barack Obama-Hillary Clinton race for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, Katz responded to pundits and other political observers who decried the media focus on race and gender when other crucial issues loomed. \"Presidential elections are always about race and gender. The reason people are talking about them now is that a black man and a (white) woman are serious contenders for a major party nomination. Their success is making visible what historically has been hidden in plain sight.\"\n\n\"Campaigns for the U.S. presidency in the era of mass media,\" he wrote, \"always turn on the personality and style of candidates, their skills at televisual performance, their race and gender, and how all of these interact with questions of national identity at a given historical moment. The biggest difference this time is that the Democratic nominee will not embody and hence reinforce the dominant position of white masculinity in the race/gender system.\"\n\nKatz further maintained that, \"Presidential contests until now have been contests between men. Men were the gender that mattered. No matter how qualified by intelligence, leadership ability or experience, women were not seriously considered for the top job in government, and everyone knew it. Their gender prevented people from seeing them as 'presidential.' If there is one thing that truly represents 'change' in this historic election season it is the change in what it means to appear 'presidential.' In the past, whether a candidate was a Republican or Democrat, conservative, centrist or liberal, their race and gender were predetermined. They were inevitably – and invariably – white and a man.”\n\nFor Katz, violence also plays an important role in shaping political discourse and in the voters' choice of whom to support for president. \"How much of the white male vote is determined by impressions about the relative 'manliness' or 'toughness' of candidates or political parties hasn’t been quantified,\" Katz writes. \"But there is no doubt that for several decades violence—both our individual and collective vulnerability to it, and questions about when and how to use the violent power of the state to protect the 'national interest' — has been an ominous and omnipresent factor in numerous foreign policy and domestic political issues (e.g. the Cold War, Vietnam, the 'War on Terror,' and the invasion of Iraq, as well as gun control, and executive, legislative and judicial responses to violent crime).\"\n\nIn several articles, Katz analyzes and comments on \"the pervasive use of sports metaphors in presidential discourse and how the language of sport functions to construct a masculine ideal for leadership at the heights of political power.\" He points out that \"the two most 'metaphorically influential' sports in presidential campaign rhetoric are boxing and football... not coincidentally, both are violent sports that attract a disproportionate percentage of male participants and fans.\"\n\n\"The frequent use of boxing and football metaphors in political discourse did not cause violence to become an important force in our politics, but this usage is one measure of how presidential campaigns in the mass media era are less about policy differences and complex political agendas than they are about the selling of a certain kind of executive masculinity, embodied until the historic 2008 election in a particular white man whom the public comes to know largely through television and other technologies of mass communication.\"\n\nKatz also comments on implications for female candidates. He writes, \"One of 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin's most-quoted lines on the campaign trail in the fall of 2008 was 'The heels are on, the gloves are off,' which she typically delivered to wild cheers of approval. In coming years, when this historic campaign and those yet to come are analyzed, it will be particularly interesting to see how female and male voters respond to language where a woman throws the 'knockout punch.' Does this masculinize and thus help to make them more credible as potential commanders-in-chief? Or do women who are seen as 'too-aggressive' – even if only in a metaphorical sense – turn voters off? What are the differences between how the sexes view a woman 'throwing punches' if she's a conservative (like Palin) or a liberal feminist (like Hillary Clinton?).\"\n\nKatz is the creator of educational videos for high school and college students produced and distributed through the Media Education Foundation:\n\n\nHe is also featured in such documentaries as Byron Hurt's \"Hip Hop: Beyond Beats and Rhymes\" (2007), Thomas Keith's \"\" (2008), and Jennifer Siebel Newsom's \"Miss Representation\" (2011).\n\nKatz publishes articles in academic journals, anthologies, and text readers on topics such as the intersections of race and gender in the representation of masculinity, advertising, secondary educational leadership, right-wing talk radio, Mel Gibson, athletes and gender violence, media discourse about violence, masculinities and violence, presidential masculinities, and Jewish masculinity.\n\nHis book, \"The Macho Paradox: Why Some Men Hurt Women and How All Men Can Help\", (2006),\n\nMan Enough?: Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton, and the Politics of Presidential Masculinity Paperback – Mar 15 2016\n\nKatz currently blogs for the Huffington Post.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52642218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52642218", "title": "Jay Mala", "text": "Jay Mala\n\nJay Mala is an Indian journalist, politician, advocate and social activist. She is a contributing editor for the National Herald, a newspaper founded by the first Prime Minister of India. She was co-founder of the Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party, prior to which she was President of the Indian Student Congress. Jay Mala is a senior advocate of the Supreme Court of India, who in a 1985 landmark case sued the State of Jammu and Kashmir changing tort law in India.\n\nShe was born to a Goud Saraswat Brahmin family.\n\nJay Mala as the President of Indian Student Congress in 1979 led thousands of university students in protest against the Janata Party government at India Gate, New Delhi. Then minister of external affairs and future prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee attempted to address the angry crowd but was pelted with stones. While bleeding from the head he was protected by Jay Mala, who led him to escape into the neighbouring Parliament building. In the aftermath of the protests Vajpayee personally secured the release of Jay Mala from Parliament Street Police Station.\n\nIn 1982 she won a case against the Government of Jammu and Kashmir in the Supreme Court. Jay Mala, acting as a legal aid advocate, secured the release of Riaz Ahmed, proving he was still a minor when he was falsely imprisoned in Jammu and Kashmir. Chief justice P. N. Bhagwati quashed the detention stating the prisoner was a school boy protesting for student rights and not as the police had falsely accused him of being an adult threatening grievous bodily harm armed with a knife.\n\nThe case set precedent in India for determining the age of a minor detainee. The judges established that a two years margin of error be applied in judicial proceedings to radiological and orthopaedic test results used to determine age in favor of the accused. The case has been continuously quoted for three decades to secure the release of minors across India, and influenced legislation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000.\n\nShe co-founded the Panthers Party in 1982, that contested all seats in the 1983 Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly elections. Jay Mala stood in the Udhampur constituency as the only female candidate against sixteen other men. She came third with 3,768 votes (13.75%).\n\nShe polled the second most votes out of all women candidates in the general election. Only seven females had contested out of a total 512 candidates.\n\nIn 1984 her husband Bhim Singh, an elected opposition member, was illegally arrested and hidden by the police while en route from Jammu for a debate at the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly in Srinagar scheduled for 11 September, where his vote may have been crucial. Jay Mala filed a case against the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, including then Chief Minister Ghulam Mohammad Shah as a respondent in order to find her husband and set him free.\n\nAfter Bhim Singh's release she was his advocate in suing the government for compensation. In a 1985 landmark judgement O. Chinnappa Reddy awarded her husband 50,000 rupees. The order of the judgment as the first case for monetary compensation for false detainment, along with its high profile nature made it a quoted case in future litigations across India impacting law of tort.\n\nIn the case judge Reddy also ruled on the politicized nature of her husband's false imprisonment, stating that the two police officers who acted with \"mischievous or malicious intent\" were mere subordinates and that he did \"not have the slightest doubt that the responsibility lies elsewhere and with the higher echelons of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir.\"\n\nIn the 1987 Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly elections she was a candidate from the Jammu East constituency. She came fourth out of 19 candidates with 634 votes (2.25%).\n\nThere were just 13 females out of a total 528 candidates in the general election.\n\nShe is married to Bhim Singh, leader of the Panthers Party. Her son Ankit Love is the leader of the One Love Party of Great Britain. She named him Love, with hope he would bring peace to the Kashmir conflict.\n"}
{"id": "55655338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55655338", "title": "Jean Middleton", "text": "Jean Middleton\n\nJean Middleton (30 August 1928-14 December 2010) was an anti-apartheid activist in South Africa. She was born in Durban and trained as a teacher. She was married to Harold Strachan. Middleton moved to Johannesburg and became active in the Congress of Democrats and then the South African Communist Party. She helped Nelson Mandela by letting him use her flat. She was imprisoned, held in solitary confinement and then restricted from working or associating with others. Middleton moved to the United Kingdom and taught English in London. In 1991 she returned to South Africa where she edited \"Umsebenzi\". In 1998 her book, \"Convictions: a woman political prisoner remembers\" was published. Late in life she suffered from emphysema and returned to Britain.\n"}
{"id": "35016684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35016684", "title": "List of committees of the Senate of Pakistan", "text": "List of committees of the Senate of Pakistan\n\nThe Senate of Pakistan has a number of committees each of which handles a specific legislative area. The committee members usually have specialized knowledge or interest in the matters under their jurisdiction. The committees monitor government activities, identify issues suitable for legislative review, gather and evaluate information, and recommend courses of action to the Senate. The number of committees has gradually increased from six during Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's government (1973–77) to fifty-two, as of 2017. There are several types of committee, with the majority (thirty) called the \"standing committees\" and others called \"functional committee\". \n"}
{"id": "35968770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35968770", "title": "List of films dealing with anarchism", "text": "List of films dealing with anarchism\n\nThis article is for films both fictional and non-fictional which focus on anarchism, anarchist movements and/or anarchist characters as a theme.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "383413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383413", "title": "List of members of the Comintern", "text": "List of members of the Comintern\n\nThe Comintern had, at the first Congress, voting delegates from the following groups:\n\n\nSee also: List of Communist Parties\n"}
{"id": "24643792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24643792", "title": "Macquarie science reform movement", "text": "Macquarie science reform movement\n\nMacquarie science reform movement refers to the successful\ntransformation of the degree system at Macquarie University in 1979\nwhich followed an academic and political campaign initiated in 1977.\n\nMacquarie University, founded in 1964, adopted a degree structure\nmodeled after the Oxbridge tradition where all graduating students\nwere awarded a BA regardless of their field of study, with the\nexception of law students.\n\nMany science students saw this as a disadvantage\nand began to mobilize for reform of the degree structure. Thus, in\n1977 a student organization, known as \"Students for a Science Degree\"\n(SSD), was formed with physicist Frank Duarte as chairman. SSD enlisted the\nsupport of science students, student politicians, science\nacademics, and professional science institutions. \n\nAmong the senior science professors that openly supported the SSD led reform movement were\nRonald E. Aitchison (Electronics), Frederick Chong (Mathematics), Brian F. Gray (Chemistry), John G. Hawke (Chemistry),\nRichard E. B. Makinson (Physics), Ronald H. Vernon (Geophysics), and John C. Ward (Physics). Support was particularly strong at the former school of Mathematics and Physics.\n\nThe BSc campaign lasted almost two years, and most of it is documented in the Arena student newspaper. In 1977 a front page newspaper article read: \"A student revolt is underway at Macquarie University against an \"outmoded\" degree system.\" The campaign winded down only when the Academic Senate of Macquarie University approved, almost unanimously, a science degree (BSc) on 11 September 1979. \nA perspective on the science reform movement is given in the book \"Liberality of Opportunity\" which was co-authored by Bruce Mansfield, a former professor of history and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University. In this account it is subtly implied that the reform movement might have been under the tutelage of J. C. Ward: \"Ward was vocal in his denunciation of the trivia that filled up Senate agendas… suitably then, it was a close student associate of Ward’s, physics PhD student Frank Duarte, who began to mobilize student opinion in favor of a change.\" This suggestion of influence is not corroborated in any of the numerous contemporaneous articles on the subject. Besides, Ward’s own description of events states that: \"there arose quite spontaneously from the students themselves a demand that they be allowed to graduate as Bachelor of Science.\" His account gives no hints of tutelage, or influence, on the student leadership, when \"the sciences revolted.\" \n\nIn 1980, Greg Sheridan described the duel between the sciences and the Macquarie establishment as a \"nasty, bitter bureaucratic struggle\" won by the reformers and their allies. \n\nBack to the present: Macquarie University offers about ninety (90) named undergraduate degrees in addition to the original BSc introduced in 1979. \n"}
{"id": "3341244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3341244", "title": "Maltol", "text": "Maltol\n\nMaltol is a naturally occurring organic compound that is used primarily as a flavor enhancer. It is found in the bark of larch tree, in pine needles, and in roasted malt (from which it gets its name). It is a white crystalline powder that is soluble in hot water, chloroform, and other polar solvents. Because it has the odor of cotton candy and caramel, maltol is used to impart a sweet aroma to fragrances. Maltol's sweetness adds to the odor of freshly baked bread, and is used as a flavor enhancer (INS Number 636) in breads and cakes. It is not registered as a food additive in the EU and thus has no E-number. Instead, maltol is registered as a flavor component in the EU.\n\nMaltol, like related 3-hydroxy-4-pyrones such as kojic acid, binds to hard metal centers such as Fe, Ga, Al, and VO. Related to this property, maltol has been reported to greatly increase aluminum uptake in the body and to increase the oral bioavailability of gallium and iron.\n\nSome synthetic derivatives of maltol, developed at the University of Urbino, showed limited in vitro antiproliferative activity towards cancer cells lines, perhaps inducing apoptosis in these cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "25842102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25842102", "title": "Maritime power", "text": "Maritime power\n\nA Maritime power is a nation with a very strong navy, which often is also a great power, or at least a regional power. A Maritime power is able to easily control their coast, and exert influence upon both nearby and far countries. A nation that dominates the world navally is known as a maritime superpower.\n\nMany countries that become maritime powers, become strong in order to defend themselves from an extant threat, such as the USSR did during the Cold War, in order to defend themselves from the United States Navy. In this scenario, it is common for the emerging maritime power to focus largely upon area denial tactics, rather than power projection.\n\nMaritime powers are often much more involved in global politics and trade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103695", "title": "Master race", "text": "Master race\n\nThe master race (, also referred to as \"master people\") is a concept in Nazi ideology in which the putative Nordic or Aryan races, predominant among Germans and other northern European peoples, are deemed the highest in racial hierarchy. Members of this alleged master race were referred to as Herrenmenschen (\"master humans\").\n\nThe Nazi official Alfred Rosenberg believed that the Nordic race was descended from Proto-Aryans, who he believed had prehistorically dwelt on the North German Plain and who had ultimately originated from the lost continent of Atlantis. The Nazis declared that the Nordics (now referred to as the Germanic peoples), or Aryans as they sometimes called them, were superior to all other races. The Nazis believed they were entitled to expand territorially. This concept is known as Nordicism. The actual policy that was implemented by the Nazis resulted in the Aryan certificate, the one form of the official document that was required by the law for all citizens of the Reich was the \"Lesser Aryan certificate\" (\"Kleiner Ariernachweis\"), which could be obtained through an \"Ahnenpass\", which required the owner to trace her or his lineage through baptism, birth certificates or certified proof thereof that all grandparents were of \"Aryan descent\".\n\nThe Slavs (along with Gypsies and Jews) were defined as being racially inferior and non-Aryan \"Untermenschen\", and were thus considered to be a danger to the \"Aryan\" or Germanic master race. According to the Nazi secret Hunger Plan and \"Generalplan Ost\", the Slavic population was to be removed from Central Europe through expulsion, enslavement, starvation, and extermination, except for a small percentage who were deemed to be non-Slavic descendants of Germanic settlers, and thus suitable for Germanisation.\n\nThe \"Übermensch\" (German) (\"Overman\" or \"Superman\") is a concept in the philosophy of German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche—he posited the \"Übermensch\" as a goal for humanity to set for itself in his 1883 book \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" (). However, Nietzsche never developed the concept on racial grounds. Instead, the \"Übermensch\" \"seems to be the ideal aim of spiritual development more than a biological goal\". Nazism distorted the real meaning behind the concept to fit its 'master race' view.\n\nBy the late 19th and early 20th centuries, it was posited that the Indo-Europeans (then generally also referred to as Aryans) made up the highest branch of humanity because their civilization was the most technologically advanced. This reasoning simultaneously intertwined with Nordicism which proclaimed the \"Nordic race\" as the \"purest\" form of said Aryan race. Today, this view is regarded as scientific racism because it contradicts racial equality by positing that one race is superior to all other races.\n\nEugenics came to play a prominent role in this racial thought as a way to improve and maintain the purity of the Aryan master race. Eugenics was a concept adhered to by many thinkers in the 1910s, 1920s, and 1930s, such as Margaret Sanger, Marie Stopes, H. G. Wells, Woodrow Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt, Madison Grant, Émile Zola, George Bernard Shaw, John Maynard Keynes, John Harvey Kellogg, Linus Pauling, and Sidney Webb. Human \"dog and pony show\" type events (organized by advocates of eugenics), where men and women appeared on stage in swimsuits in eugenic competitions (only Nordic Aryans were allowed to enter) to be evaluated for their physical and mental qualities as marriage partners, were common throughout Europe and North America in the 1920s. The Nazis took this concept to a further extreme by establishing a program to systematically genetically enhance the Nordic Aryans themselves through a program of Nazi eugenics, based on the eugenics laws of the US state of California, to create a super race.\n\nThe modern concept of the \"master race\" in general derives from 19th-century racial theory, which posited a hierarchy of races based on darkness of skin color. This 19th-century concept was largely initially developed by Count Joseph Arthur De Gobineau. Gobineau's basic concept, as further refined and developed in Nazism, places the black Indigenous Australians and Equatorial Africans at the bottom of the hierarchy, while the white Northern and Western Europeans (consisting of Germans, Swedes, Icelanders, Norwegians, Danes, British, Irish, Dutch, Belgian and Northern French) were at the top; olive skinned white Southern Europeans (consisting of the Southern French, Portuguese, Spaniards, Italians, Romanians, and Greeks, i.e., those of what is called the Mediterranean race, which was regarded as another sub-race of the Caucasian race) in the upper middle ranks; and those of the Semitic race and Hamitic race (supposed sub-races of the Caucasian race) in the middle ranks (it was because the Jews, being Semites, were clever that they were so dangerous—they had their own plan for Jewish world domination, a conspiracy that had to be opposed by all thoughtful Aryans, declared the Nazis). Slavs such as Poles and Russians were not considered Aryans; and those of the Mongoloid race (including its offshoots the Malayan race, the American Indian race) and mixed-race people such as Eurasians, the bronze Mestizos, Mulattos, Afro-Asians, and Zambos in the lower middle ranks. However, the Japanese were considered honorary Aryans.\nIn attempting to scientifically prove the racial inferiority of Slavs, German (and Austrian) racial scientists were forced to gloss over their findings which consistently found that Early Slavs were dolicocephalic and fair haired, i.e., \"Nordic\", while the South Slavic \"Dinaric\" sub-race was often viewed favourable. Nazis used the term \"Slavic race\", and considered Slavs to be non-Aryan The concept of a Slavic \"Untermensch\" went alongside the political goals, and was particularly aimed at Poles and Russians. Germany's ultimate goal was to realize their \"Drang nach Osten\" to conquer in Europe, Ukraine's \"chernozem\" (black earth) soil being a particularly desirable zone for colonization by the \"Herrenvolk\" (master race).\n\nIn relation to the Nazis racial purity, author and historian Lucy Dawidowicz wrote:\n\nIn the United States, the concept of 'master race' arose within the context of master-slave race relations in the slavery-based society of historical America – particularly in the South in the mid-19th century. It was based upon both the experience of slavery and the , but also on the relations between whites in the South and North, particularly during the American Civil War.\n\nBenjamin W. Leigh, representing Virginia in the United States Senate, said in a speech of January 19, 1836:\nThere has been in Virginia as earnest a desire to abolish slavery as exists any where at this day. It commenced with the Revolution, and many of our ablest and most influential men were active in recommending it, and in devising plans for the accomplishment of it. The Legislature encouraged and facilitated emancipation by the owners, and many slaves were so emancipated. The leaning of the courts of justice was always \"in favorem libertatis\". This disposition continued until the impracticability of effecting a general emancipation, without incalculable mischief to the master race, and danger of utter destruction to the other, and the evils consequent on partial emancipations, became too obvious to the Legislature, and to the great majority of the people, to be longer disregarded.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary records that William J. Grayson used the phrase \"master race\" in his poem \"The Hireling and the Slave\" (1855):\n<poem>\nFor these great ends hath Heaven’s supreme command\nBrought the black savage from his native land,\nTrains for each purpose his barbarian mind,\nBy slavery tamed, enlightened, and refined;\nInstructs him, from a master-race, to draw\nWise modes of polity and forms of law,\nImbues his soul with faith, his heart with love,\nShapes all his life by dictates from above\n</poem>\n\nwhere the phrase denotes the relation between the white masters and negro slaves.\nBy 1860 Virginian author George Fitzhugh was using the \"challenging phrase \"master race\", which soon came to mean considerably more than the ordinary master-slave relationship\". Fitzhugh, along with a number of southern writers, used the term to differentiate Southerners from Northerners, based on the dichotomy that Southerners were supposedly descendents of Normans / Cavaliers whereas Northerners were descendents of Anglo-Saxons / Puritans.\n\nIn 1861, the Southern press bragged that Northern soldiers would \"encounter a master race\" and knowledge of this fact would cause Northern soldiers' \"knees to tremble\". The \"Richmond Whig\" in 1862 proclaimed that \"the master race of this continent is found in the southern states\", and in 1863 the \"Richmond Examiner\" stated that \"there are slave races born to serve, master races born to govern\".\n\nIn the works of John H. Van Evrie, a Northern supporter of the Confederacy, the term was interchangeable with white supremacy, notably in \"White Supremacy and Negro Subordination, Or, Negroes a Subordinate Race and (so-called) slavery its normal condition\" (1861). In \"Subgeneation: the theory of the normal relations of the races; an answer to miscegenation\" (1864) Van Evrie created the words \"subgen\" to describe what he considered to be the \"inferior races\" and \"subgeneation\" to describe the ‘normal’ relation of such inferior races to whites, something which he considered to be the \"very corner-stone of democracy\"; but these words never entered the dictionary.\n\nThe racial term \"Untermensch\" originates from the title of Klansman Lothrop Stoddard's 1922 book \"The Revolt Against Civilization: The Menace of the Under-man\". It was later adopted by the Nazis from that book's German version \"Der Kulturumsturz: Die Drohung des Untermenschen\" (1925). An advocate of the U.S. immigration laws that favored Northern Europeans, Stoddard wrote primarily on the alleged dangers posed by \"colored\" peoples to white civilization, with his most famous book \"The Rising Tide of Color Against White World-Supremacy\" in 1920. Alfred Rosenberg was the leading Nazi who attributed the concept of the East-European \"under man\" to Stoddard. As the Nazi Party's chief racial theorist, Rosenberg oversaw the construction of a human racial \"ladder\" that justified Hitler's racial and ethnic policies. Referring to Russian communists, Rosenbeg wrote in his \"Der Mythus des 20. Jahrhunderts\" (1930) that \"this is the kind of human being that Lothrop Stoddard has called the 'under man.'\" [\"...den Lothrop Stoddard als 'Untermenschen' bezeichnete.\"]\n\nThe origins of the Nazi version of the theory of the master race were in the 19th-century racial theories of Count Joseph Arthur De Gobineau, who argued that cultures degenerated when distinct races mixed. It was believed at this time that the peoples of Southern Europe were racially mixed with non-European Moors from across the Mediterranean Sea, while the peoples of Northern Europe and Western Europe remained pure. Proponents of the Nordic theory further argued that Nordic peoples had developed an innate toughness and determination due to the harsh, challenging climate in which they evolved.\n\nThe philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer was one of the earliest proponents of a theory presenting a hierarchical racial model of history, attributing civilisational primacy to the \"white races\" who gained their sensitivity and intelligence by refinement in the rigorous north.\n\nThe highest civilisation and culture, apart from the Ancient Indians and Egyptians, are found exclusively among the white races; and even with many dark peoples, the ruling caste or race is fairer in colour than the rest and has, therefore, evidently immigrated, for example, the Brahmins, the Incas, and the rulers of the South Sea Islands. All this is because necessity is the mother of invention because those tribes that emigrated early to the north and there gradually became white, had to develop all their intellectual powers and invent and perfect all the arts in their struggle with need, want and misery, which in their many forms were brought about by the climate. This they had to do in order to make up for the parsimony of nature and out of it all came their high civilisation.\n\nDespite this, he was adamantly against differing treatment of races, was fervently anti-slavery, and supported the abolitionist movement in the United States. He describes the treatment of \"[our] innocent black brothers whom force and injustice have delivered into [the slave-master's] devilish clutches\" as \"belonging to the blackest pages of mankind's criminal record\".\n\nHans Frank, Hitler's personal lawyer, stated that Hitler carried a copy of Schopenhauer's book \"The World as Will and Representation\" with him wherever he went throughout World War I.\nThe postulated superiority of these people was said to make them born leaders, or a \"master race\". Other authors included Guido von List, his associate Lanz von Liebenfels, and the British-born German racial theorist Houston Stewart Chamberlain, all of whom felt that the white race in general and Germanic peoples in particular were superior to others, and that given the purification of both the white race and the German people from the other races which were \"polluting\" them, a new millenarian age of Aryan god-men would arrive.\n\nNazi policy stressed the superiority of the Germanic \"Ubermenschen\" (superhuman) Nordic race, a sub-race of the European population defined by anthropometric models of racial difference. The Nordic race was said to comprise only the Germanic peoples: Scandinavians and the rest of the Nordic countries (Norwegians, Swedes, Danes, Icelanders, and Faroese), ethnic Germans (including Austrians, Banat Swabians, as well as Sudeten, Baltic and Volga Germans), Alemannic Swiss, Liechtensteiners, Luxembourgers, the Dutch, Flemings, Afrikaners, Frisians and the English.\n\nThe Nazi racial theorist Hans F. K. Günther first defined \"Nordic thought\" in his programmatic book \"Der Nordische Gedanke unter den Deutschen\". The fact that Germans were not purely Nordic was acknowledged by Günther in his book \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (1922) (\"Racial Science of the German People\"), in which he described the German people as being made up of all five of his European racial categories: Nordic, Mediterranean, Dinaric, Alpine, and East Baltic. Most official Nazi comments on the Nordic race were based on Günther's works, and Alfred Rosenberg presented Günther with a medal for his work in anthropology.\n\nAlthough the physical ideal of these racial theorists was typically the tall, fair-haired and light-eyed Nordic individual, such theorists accepted the fact that a considerable variety of hair and eye colour existed within the racial categories they recognised. For example, Adolf Hitler and many Nazi officials had dark hair and were still considered members of the Aryan race under Nazi racial doctrine, because the determination of an individual's racial type depended on a preponderance of many characteristics in an individual rather than on just one defining feature.\n\nHitler and Himmler planned to use the SS as the basis for the racial \"regeneration\" of Europe following the final victory of Nazism. The SS was to be a racial elite chosen on the basis of \"pure\" Nordic qualities.\n\nGiuseppe Sergi (1841–1936) was an Italian anthropologist of the early twentieth century, best known for his opposition to Nordicism in his books on the racial identity of ancient Mediterranean peoples. His concept of the Mediterranean race became important to the modelling of racial difference in the early twentieth century.\n\nThe term Aryan derives from the Sanskrit word (ā́rya), which derived from \"arya\", the original Indo-Iranian autonym. Also, the word \"Iran\" is the Persian word for land/place of the \"Aryan\" (see also Iranian peoples).\n\nFollowing the ideas of Gobineau and others, the Nazi theorist Alfred Rosenberg determined that these people, who, he claimed, were originally from Atlantis, were a dynamic warrior people who dwelt in northern climates on the North German Plain in prehistoric times, from which they migrated southeast by riding their chariots, eventually reaching Ukraine, Iran, and then India. They were supposed to be the ancestors of the ancient Germanic tribes, who shared their warrior values. Rosenberg claimed that Christianity was an alien Semitic slave-morality which was inappropriate for the warrior Aryan master race and he thus supported a melange of aspects of Hindu Vedic and Zoroastrian teachings (both of these religions having been organised by Aryans), along with pre-Christian European Odinistic paganism, which he also considered distinctively Aryan in character.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, the Nuremberg Race Laws of 1935 forbade sexual relations and marriage between an \"Aryan\" and a \"non-Aryan\" in order to maintain the purity of the Aryan race. Such relations became a punishable crime known as \"Rassenschande\" or \"racial shame\". The League of German Girls was particularly regarded as instructing girls to avoid \"Rassenschande\", which was treated with particular importance for young females. Aryans found guilty of this crime could face incarceration in a concentration camp, while non-Aryans could face the death penalty. The Nazis recognized the Germanic people as the master race, and several policies were implemented in order to improve and maintain the Germanic-Nordic ubermenschen Aryan \"master race\", including the practice of eugenics. In order to eliminate \"defective\" citizens, the T-4 Euthanasia Program was administered by Karl Brandt in order to rid the country of the intellectually disabled or those born with genetic deficiencies, as well as those deemed racially inferior. Additionally, a programme of compulsory sterilisation was undertaken which resulted in forced operations being performed on hundreds of thousands of individuals. Many of these policies are generally seen as being related to what eventually became known as the Holocaust.\n\nThe Nazis also undertook measures to increase the number of Nordics in Germany. The Lebensborn program was only open to German women who fit the Nordic profile. During the Nazi occupation of Poland, the Nazis took young Nordic-looking Polish children who were classified as being descended from ethnic German settlers in order to determine whether or not they were \"racially valuable\". If that were the case, the young children were taken back to these Lebensborn houses so they could be raised as Germans.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, there existed an official document which certified that its owner was Aryan, the so-called Aryan certificate that could also be obtained by citizens of other countries. It states in the section \"Racial Tenet\" (\"Rassegrundsatz\"):\n\nFor the \"Greater Aryan certificate\" people had to prove that reaching back to January 1, 1800 \"\"none of their paternal nor their maternal ancestors had Jewish or colored blood\" (SS officers had to prove this reaching back to 1750).\n\nThe fact that the Mediterranean race was responsible for the most important of ancient western civilisations was a problem for the promoters of Nordic superiority. According to Giuseppe Sergi, the Mediterranean race was the \"greatest race of the world\" and was singularly responsible for the most accomplished civilisations of ancient times, including those of Mesopotamia, Persia, Egypt, Greece, Phoenicia, Carthage, and Rome. The Mediterranean race was also a major influence to the outside world in the modern era: during the 16th century, Spain and Portugal established the first global empires in Western history, setting both nations in the highest level of political and economic powers in Europe.\n\nC. G. Seligman also stated that \"it must, I think, be recognised that the Mediterranean race has actually more achievements to its credit than any other race, since it is responsible for by far the greater part of Mediterranean civilisation, certainly before 1000 BC (and probably much later), and so shaped not only the Aegean cultures, but those of Western as well as the greater part of Eastern Mediterranean lands, while the culture of their near relatives, the Hamitic pre-dynastic Egyptians, formed the basis of that of Egypt.\"\n\nThe Nazis explained this by pointing out that the original Latins and Greeks were Indo-European Nordic tribes that had migrated into Italy and Greece, respectively. The Nazis also claimed that the Spanish and Portuguese empires were examples of Nordic power since, at the time, their governments were run by the descendants of the Germanic Visigoths that had invaded earlier.\nHowever, they did admit that the masses during these four civilizations were Mediterranean. And Germans of all European races were classified as Aryan.\n\nAryan master race ideology was common throughout the educated and literate strata of the Western world until after World War II. Such theories were commonplace in early-20th century fantasy literature.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, the original \"Buck Rogers\" stories and newspaper cartoons, Buck Rogers, in his adventures in the 25th century that take place on Earth, fights for \"Aryan-Americans\" from the liberated zone around Niagara, New York, against the \"Red Mongol Empire,\" a Chinese empire of the future which rules most of North America.\n\nIn the 1930s, both educational and storybooks for children in Germany taught their readers about the master race. In the \"Sun Koh\" science fiction series, the protagonist Koh says things like \"My forefathers were Aryan\", and in a story about Atlantis, he says, \"If our Atlantis once again rises out of the sea, then we will get from there the blond, steel-hard men with the pure blood and will create with them the master race, which will finally rule the earth.\" The German writer Michael Ende, who was born in 1929 and grew up reading such books, wrote his classic novel \"Jim Button and Luke the Engine Driver\" in the 1950s, as a way of opposing the Nazi propaganda he was taught. \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" writer Julia Voss wrote a book on Jim Button, uncovering Ende's many references to Nazi symbols in that book. Voss shows how Ende upends the Nazi belief that Atlantis was the original home of the Aryan race by creating his own submerged city and making it rise, but not to restore Aryan master-race rule over the earth, rather it becomes a multi-racial paradise with Jim Button, who is black and a descendant of the Magi Caspar, as its king.\n\nIn the 1948 film \"Rope\" by Alfred Hitchcock, one of the central characters, Brandon Shaw, is a firm believer in the master race ideology.\n\nIn \"Doctor Who,\" the Doctor's frequent enemies, the Daleks, consider themselves a master race who must purge the universe of all others; Terry Nation explicitly modeled them on the Nazis. In the 2009 special \"The End of Time\", when the Master transforms the entire human race into copies of himself, he claims that there is no human race, but only \"the Master race\".\n\nIn the Harry Potter series, while the parallels were not originally intentional, there is much similarity between Voldemort's pureblood ideology and the master race ideology of the Nazis, with wizards being \"pure\" and anyone with Muggle (non-wizard) blood being considered \"half-blood\" or \"mudblood\", a word treated the same way a racial slur would be treated in the real world (Neo-Nazis call non-white people \"mud people\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32553110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32553110", "title": "Mediterranean Interregional Commission", "text": "Mediterranean Interregional Commission\n\nThe Mediterranean Interregional Commission is one of the twelve Committees of the United Cities and Local Governments. \n\nWithin United Cities and Local Governments, the Interregional Mediterranean Commission is at the junction of three regional sections: Europe, Africa, and the Middle East/West Asia. The Mediterranean occupies a special place in UCLG due to the large amount of direct members in the three regions North, South, and East of the Mediterranean and because of the many cooperation initiatives that connect local authorities and the common policies for regional development. Following the Med Urbs program, a “network culture” of trans-Mediterranean local authorities was created in the Mediterranean, reinforced by the Euro-Mediterranean partnership: Medcities, the network of Euromed cities (previously the Euromed group of Eurocities), the Standing Committee for the Euro Mediterranean Partnership of Local and Regional Authorities (COPPEM), the Europe-MENA Urban Network, Latin Arch, the Inter-Mediterranean Commission of the Conference of Peripheral Maritime Regions (CPMR), and the European network of local authorities for peace in the Middle East (COEPPO) are some of the networks that intersect with a variety of networks of civil society, universities and initiatives of the private sector. It appeared that the three regional sections of UCLG together could reinforce exchanges and encourage taking into consideration the specific interests of local Mediterranean authorities, whether on matters related to Euro-Mediterranean relations or on strategic issues like decentralization, urban development, or the environment, particularly access to and water management.\n\nWithin the “Mediterranean” context, the Mediterranean Commission brings added value as vital support to a dynamic process that will make possible:\n\n- Providing visibility and legibility to the numerous initiatives of local authorities in the Mediterranean.\n- Creating the necessary conditions for the actors of these initiatives to meet in order to share know-how and experiences, to avoid scattered and compartmentalized actions, and by doing so, to optimize their impact in the field; encouraging particularly North-South and South-South dialogue and knowledge exchanges.\n- Gaining recognition of the importance of the local institutional sphere as designers, managers, and leaders of development policies that are the closest to the citizens, in a region where governance indicators show it is urgent to bring centers of power closer to the population.\n- Bridging the gap between elected representatives and local decision-makers in the Mediterranean who due to longstanding conflicts, economic difficulties and cultural stereotypes stifle the feeling of sharing a common Mediterranean or Euro-Mediterranean destiny.\n- Promoting adequate consideration of political Mediterranean issues from the perspective of local authorities: peace in the Middle East, conflict prevention (“Peace Keeping”), intercultural dialogue (North-North, North-South, and South-South) regional integration processes (Union of the Arab Maghreb), etc.\n\nThe creation of a Mediterranean Commission within UCLG is not a new idea.\n\nIt was suggested in 2001 during the joint meeting in Tunis of the World Federation of United Cities and the International Union of Local Authorities (FMCU/IULA), before the unification congress of Paris in May 2004. During the congress in Paris, the President of the French Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur (PACA) region, the mayors of Marseille, Rome, and Tunis and the founding and honorary presidents of UCLG relaunched the idea of a Commission suggesting it could have its headquarters in Marseille. The principle of a Mediterranean Commission was adopted by the Executive Council in São Paulo and the creation of the Commission was ratified during the World Council of Beijing in June 2005.\nOn May 18, 2005 a meeting was held in Marseille. Major local authorities of the Mediterranean and their national or international networks were invited to participate or to contribute in writing to the meeting during which a first definition of a “Mediterranean Commission” of UCLG was prepared, including its members, objectives, and a tentative agenda.\n\nMilestones of the Mediterranean Commission of UCLG:\n\n\"May 2006\": A technical secretariat is set up in Marseille, financed by the City of Marseille and the Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur Region, with the support of Cités Unies France and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\"November 2006\": Constitution of the political organs representing the three shores of the Mediterranean with a three-year mandate. Omar EL JAZOULI, Mayor of Marrakech, becomes the first President of the Mediterranean Commission\n\"October 2007\": The mandate of the Mediterranean Commission is renewed during the Second World Congress of UCLG in Jeju.\n\n\"February 2008\": Mercedes Bresso, President of the Piedmont Region, becomes the second President of the Mediterranean Commission.\n\"22 & 23 June 2008\": Forum of Local and Regional Authorities of the Mediterranean.\n\"June 2009\": Abdel Moumen ARISS, Mayor of Beirut, becomes the third President of the Mediterranean Commission.\n\n\"17 to 20 November 2010\": The third UCLG Congress, held in Mexico, sees the renewal of the mandate of the Mediterranean Commission for three years.\n\nThe political scope of the Mediterranean Commission establishes UCLG as the largest framework for direct political exchanges between local elected representatives in the Mediterranean respecting a North-South balance that undertakes to:\n- Promote local and regional autonomy and the institutional reinforcement of local authorities South and East of the Mediterranean, as well as their national networks or associations. To this end, the Commission favors structuring local authorities through its support to national associations of elected officials and local authorities of the South or by fostering their creation.\n- Assure direct exchanges between the many different actors on common issues at Mediterranean scale, for example, the organization of the Permanent Forum of Local and Regional Authorities of the Mediterranean, an opportunity for dialogue and a special occasion to amplify the voice of Mediterranean local authorities and to allow exchanges between Mediterranean and non-Mediterranean politicians and actors.\n- Develop decentralized cooperation and initiatives advocating common values that respect Mediterranean specificities.\n- Engage in dialogue with donors of State and multilateral funds (French Development Agency, Bretton Woods Institutions, United Nations agencies, investment bank funds), and to promote closer relations with the institutions of the European Union (EU Parliament, EU Commission, Committee of the Regions) based on the expertise and the results obtained by the networks or by encouraging new types of collaboration.\n\n- Defend the role and participation of local authorities in the Barcelona Process-Union for the Mediterranean, the new Neighborhood Policy and overall within the Mediterranean partnership.\n\n- Seek to identify and promote concrete initiatives in favor of peace in the Middle East, conflict prevention (“Peace Keeping”), intercultural dialogue, regional integration processes and development throughout the entire region, leading to long-term exchanges and partnerships between territories (North-South, South-South).\n\n- Engage in dialogue and take into consideration the work and proposals of civil society, in particular, economic actors, academics, and community associations.\n\n- Construct a more stable and prosperous Mediterranean space.\n\n\"Technical Committee\": The technical committee consists of the heads of the principal European networks working in the Mediterranean, trans-Mediterranean networks, national associations of local authorities South and East of the Mediterranean, and representatives of national, European, or international institutions working in the Mediterranean.\n\n\"Mediterranean Council\": It is made up of elected local officials in positions of responsibility in European networks active in the Mediterranean, in trans-Mediterranean networks or national associations of local authorities South and East of the Mediterranean. It includes representatives of local authorities from countries where there are no structured networks and may be open to actors of the civil society during its meetings.\n\n\"Bureau\": The first bureau of the Mediterranean Commission of UCLG was established in the Commission’s meeting during the World Council of UCLG held in Marrakech on Monday October 30, 2006. On the basis of a rotating tripartite presidency it was composed of elected members representing the three shores of the Mediterranean: for Europe: Mercedes Bresso, President of the Piedmont Region (Italy), for the Maghreb: Omar El Jazouli, Mayor of Marrakech (Morocco) and for the Middle East: Abdel Mounim Ariss, Mayor of Beirut (Lebanon). Mr Jean-Claude Gaudin, Mayor of Marseille and Mr Michel Vauzelle, President of the Provence Alpes Côte d’Azur Region, were the vice-presidents.\nFollowing the renewal of the mandate of the Mediterranean Commission of UCLG at the World Congress of Mexico in November 2010, a new bureau will be constituted soon.\n\nThe Commission’s Headquarters and the Technical Secretariat are located in Marseilles.\n\nThe Mediterranean Commission is open to members of UCLG and to thematic or general networks of Mediterranean local and regional authorities. Territorial authorities that are not members of UCLG and that wish to join the Commission may do so by sending a written request to the president of the Commission.\n\nIn its technical dimension, the Mediterranean Commission of UCLG does not seek to be an additional network nor an additional operator. By becoming a center of resources, on a Mediterranean scale, for projects, procedures, and mechanisms concerning territorial authorities, the Mediterranean Commission offers an overview of strategies and opportunities in the region. It brings closer the supply and the needs in the cooperation process by:\n- Capitalizing on and disseminating knowledge and expertise in local and territorial management, urban development and decentralized cooperation—in a multilateral framework—by relaying calls for proposals, projects, or ideas for the implementation of innovative forms of cooperation.\n\n- Providing technical assistance to Mediterranean project leaders (local authorities and their networks and associations): assistance with legal, administrative, and financial aspects of the implementation of projects of local authorities and their networks.\n\n- Carrying on the technical assistance over the long term through the implementation of tools that will contribute to the visibility and evaluation of activities of local authorities: website, database, technical data, newsletter.\n- Carrying out action research on Mediterranean issues and publication of work aimed at practical applications, particularly the creation of groups of experts who may work on specific problems and/or geographical areas.\n- Organizing technical workshops and training on topics chosen by local authorities and their networks.\n\nMEETINGS\n\n• November 20, 2008 : Debate on the involvement of local and regional authorities in Euro-Mediterranean policies, Marseille (France).\n\n• May 25 & 26, 2009 : Regional seminar for local authorities - Balkans : “Methods and tools for the development of territories”, in Sarajevo (Bosnia and Herzegovina).\n\n• October 9, 2009: Conference on territorial attractiveness in the Mediterranean, within the Mediterranean Economic Week, Marseille (France).\n\n• November 23 & 24, 2009 : International conference on the Contribution of local and regional authorities to the Water Strategy of the Union for the Mediterranean, Lyon (France).\n\n• 29 November - 4 December 2010 : Mediterranean Economic Week, Marseille (France)\n\n"}
{"id": "604223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604223", "title": "Motorcycle Emptiness", "text": "Motorcycle Emptiness\n\n\"Motorcycle Emptiness\" () is a single by Welsh alternative rock band Manic Street Preachers. It was released on 1 June 1992, through Columbia Records. It was the fifth single to be released from their debut album, \"Generation Terrorists\".\n\nThe track is slower paced than most others on the album. Its lyrics are inspired by S.E. Hinton's book \"Rumble Fish\", about biker gang culture. The lyrics have been interpreted by the band as an attack on the hollowness of the consumer lifestyle offered by capitalism, describing how society expects young people to conform.\n\nThe song was derived from the early Manic Street Preachers songs \"Go, Buzz Baby, Go\" (with which it shares the chord structure and the phrase \"Motorcycle Emptiness\" late in the song over the verse chords) and \"Behave Yourself Baby\", a rough demo with a similar structure, that has the lines \"All we want from you is the skin you live within\", similar to \"All we want from you are the kicks you've given us\" in this song.\n\nSome of the lyrics are taken from the poem \"Neon Loneliness\" (the first line of the chorus, \"Under neon loneliness\", is a direct lift) by Welsh poet Patrick Jones, the brother of Manics bass guitarist and lyricist Nicky Wire. \"Motorcycle Emptiness\" was also included on \"Forever Delayed\", the Manics' greatest hits album, in October 2002, and released as a reissued single from the compilation in February 2003.\n\n\"Motorcycle Emptiness\" was released on 1 June 1992 by record label Columbia. The song reached number 17 in the UK Singles Chart on 13 June 1992. It remained there for another week and spent a total of eight weeks in the top 75, two weeks longer than any other \"Generation Terrorists\" single, and a record not surpassed by the Manics until 1996's \"A Design for Life\".\n\nIn 2003, a re-issue CD containing the title track, \"4 Ever Delayed\" and \"Little Baby Nothing (Acoustic)\" was released in Europe as promotion for the band's \"Forever Delayed\" greatest hits compilation.\n\nThe video was filmed during a promotional visit to Japan in various locations, including the Shibuya Crossing and Cosmo Clock 21. It features the whole band, but with Bradfield appearing most, standing stationary and performing the song as crowds surge around him. The band appear in non-sequential shots, exploring the sites of Japan. At one point, Edwards appears trying to gain the attention of a tortoise.\n\nThe song was remixed by Apollo-440 under their alternative name Stealth Sonic Orchestra as a piece of classical-style music. This remix was available as a track on the single \"Australia\" (taken from their seminal 1996 album \"Everything Must Go\"), and was also used by T-Mobile for an advertising campaign in 2003.\n\nIn 2006, \"Q\" magazine readers voted the song as the 88th best song ever.\n\n"}
{"id": "4918410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4918410", "title": "Nelida Cabigayan", "text": "Nelida Cabigayan\n\nNelida Cabigayan (a.k.a. Commander Lina) was a member of the New People's Army who fought the dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos in the Philippines. She was active in NPA for two years in the early 1970s, and became regarded as folk hero. She surrendered in 1974, and act that was considered as a major coup of the Marcos' government.\n"}
{"id": "55329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55329", "title": "Neturei Karta", "text": "Neturei Karta\n\nNeturei Karta (Jewish Babylonian Aramaic: \"\", literally \"Guardians of the City\") is a religious group of Haredi Jews, formally created in Jerusalem, British Mandate of Palestine, in 1938, splitting off from Agudas Yisrael. Neturei Karta opposes secular Zionism and calls for a dismantling of the State of Israel, in the belief that Jews are forbidden to have their own state until the coming of the Jewish Messiah. While the Neturei Karta consider themselves true Jews, the US-based Jewish Anti-Defamation League has described them as \"the farthest fringes of Judaism\".\n\nIn Israel some members also pray at affiliated \"beit midrash\", in Jerusalem's Meah Shearim neighborhood and in Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet. Neturei Karta states that no official count of the number of members exists. The Jewish Virtual Library puts their numbers at 5,000, while the Anti-Defamation League estimates that fewer than 100 members of the community take part in anti-Israel activism. According to the Anti-Defamation League, members of Neturei Karta have a long history of extremist statements and support for notable anti-Zionists and Islamists.\n\nAccording to the US branch Neturei Karta:\n\n\"The name Neturei Karta is a name usually given to those people who regularly pray in the Neturei Karta synagogues (Torah Ve'Yirah Jerusalem, Torah U'Tefillah London, Torah U'Tefillah NY, Beis Yehudi Upstate NY, etc.), study in or send their children to educational institutions run by Neturei Karta, or actively participate in activities, assemblies or demonstrations called by the Neturei Karta\".\n\nOriginally the organization was called Chevrat HaChayim (Society of Life); however this name was quickly supplanted in favor of the name Neturei Karta.\n\nThe name \"Neturei Karta\" literally means \"Guardians of the City\" in Aramaic and is derived from a narrative on page 76c of Tractate Hagigah in the Jerusalem Talmud. There it is related that Rabbi Judah haNasi sent two rabbis on a tour of inspection:\nIn one town they asked to see the \"guardians of the city\" and the city guard was paraded before them. They said that these were not the guardians of the city but its destroyers, which prompted the citizens to ask who, then, could be considered the guardians. The rabbis answered, \"The scribes and the scholars,\" referring them to \"Tehillim\" (Psalms) Chapter 127.\nIt is this role that Neturei Karta see themselves as fulfilling by defending what they believe is \"the position of the Torah and authentic unadulterated Judaism.\"\n\nGenerally, members of Neturei Karta are descendants of Hungarian Jews who settled in Jerusalem's Old City in the early nineteenth century, and from Lithuanian Jews who were students of the Gaon of Vilna (known as \"Perushim\"), who had settled earlier. In the late nineteenth century, their ancestors participated in the creation of new neighborhoods outside the city walls to alleviate overcrowding in the Old City, and most are now concentrated in the neighborhood of Batei Ungarin and the larger Meah Shearim neighborhood.\n\nAt the time, they were vocal opponents to the new political ideology of Zionism that was attempting to assert Jewish sovereignty in Ottoman-controlled Palestine. They resented the new arrivals, who were predominantly non-religious, while they asserted that Jewish redemption could be brought about only by the Jewish messiah.\nNeturei Karta was founded by Rabbi Amram Blau and Rabbi Aharon Katzenelbogen. Rabbi Blau was a native of Meah Shearim in Jerusalem and was active in the Agudat Israel during the British Mandate era. However, by the 1930s, the Aguda began to adopt a more compromising and accommodationist approach to the Zionist movement. This caused Rabbi Blau to split with the Aguda in 1937 and alongside of Rabbi Katzenelbogen found Chevrat HaChayim, which was soon to be known thereafter as Neturei Karta.\n\nOther Orthodox Jewish movements, including some who oppose Zionism, have denounced the activities of the radical branch of Neturei Karta. According to \"The Guardian\", \"[e]ven among Haredi, or ultra-Orthodox circles, the Neturei Karta are regarded as a wild fringe\". Neturei Karta is sometimes confused with Satmar, due to both being anti-Zionist. They are separate groups and have had disagreements. Neturei Karta asserts that the mass media deliberately downplays their viewpoint and makes them out to be few in number. Their protests in America are usually attended by, at most, a few dozen people. In Israel, the group's protests typically attract several hundred participants, depending on the nature of the protest and its location.\n\nIn July 2013, the Shin Bet arrested a 46-year-old member of Neturei Karta for allegedly attempting to spy on Israel for Iran. As part of a plea deal, the man was sentenced to 4 years in prison. Neturei Karta has denied that he had ever been a member of their group.\n\nNeturei Karta's website states that its members \"frequently participate[s] in public burning of the Israeli flag.\" On the Jewish holiday of Purim, Neturei Karta members have routinely burned Israeli flags in celebrations in cities such as London, Brooklyn and Jerusalem.\n\nWhile many in Neturei Karta chose to simply ignore the State of Israel, this became more difficult. Some took steps to condemn Israel and bring about its eventual dismantling until the coming of the Messiah. Chief among these was Moshe Hirsch, leader of an activist branch of Neturei Karta, who served in Yasser Arafat's cabinet as Minister for Jewish Affairs.\n\nNeturei Karta stress what is said in the mussaf Shemona Esrei of Yom Tov, that because of their sins, the Jewish people went into exile from the Land of Israel (\"\"umipnei chatoeinu golinu meiartzeinu\"). Additionally, they maintain the view – based on the Babylonian Talmud – that any form of forceful recapture of the Land of Israel is a violation of divine will. They believe that the restoration of the Land of Israel to the Jews should happen only with the coming of the Messiah, not by self-determination.\n\nNeturei Karta believe that the exile of the Jews can end only with the arrival of the Messiah, and that human attempts to establish Jewish sovereignty over the Land of Israel are sinful. In Neturei Karta's view, Zionism is a presumptuous affront against God. Chief among their arguments against Zionism is the Talmudic concept of the so-called Three Oaths, extracted from the discussion of certain portions of the Bible. It states that a pact consisting of three oaths was made between God, the Jewish people, and the nations of the world, when the Jews were sent into exile. One provision of the pact was that the Jews would not rebel against the non-Jewish world that gave them sanctuary; a second was that they would not immigrate en masse to the Land of Israel. In return the gentile nations promised not to persecute the Jews. By rebelling against this pact, they argued, the Jewish people were engaging in rebellion against God.\n\nThe Neturei Karta synagogues follow the customs of the Gaon of Vilna, due to Neturei Karta's origin within the Lithuanian rather than Hasidic branch of ultra-Orthodox Judaism. Neturei Karta is not a Hasidic but a Litvish group; they are often mistaken for Hasidim because their style of dress (including a shtreimel on Shabbos) is very similar to that of Hasidim. This style of dress is not unique to Neturei Karta, but is also the style of other Jerusalem Litvaks, such as Rabbi Yosef Sholom Eliashiv and his followers. Furthermore, Shomer Emunim, a Hasidic group with a similar anti-Zionist ideology, is often bundled together with Neturei Karta. Typically, the Jerusalem Neturei Karta will keep the customs of the \"Old \"Yishuv\" of the city of Jerusalem even when living outside of Jerusalem or even when living abroad, as a demonstration of their love for and connection to the Holy Land.\n\nIn the United States, the Neturei Karta are led by Moshe Ber Beck of Monsey, New York. They affiliate with the radical branch led by Moshe Hirsch. Beck has courted controversy by meeting with Nation of Islam leader Minister Louis Farrakhan, who has been accused of inciting antisemitism and of describing Judaism as a \"gutter religion\" (although Farrakhan insists his words were misinterpreted ). In addition, after meeting with the representatives from Neturei Karta, Farrakhan indicated he would be more cautious in his choice of words in the future.\n\nAfter two men associated with the radical branch of Neturei Karta participated in a 2004 prayer vigil for Yasser Arafat outside the Percy Military Hospital in Paris, France, where he lay on his death bed, the radical branch of Neturei Karta was widely condemned by other Orthodox Jewish organizations, including many other anti-Zionist Haredi organizations both in New York and Jerusalem. Moshe Hirsch, and what Hirsch's faction described as an \"impressive contingent\" of other members, attended Arafat's funeral in Ramallah.\n\nAlmost a year after the Gaza War a group of Neturei Karta members crossed into Gaza as part of the Gaza Freedom March to celebrate Jewish \"Shabbos\" to show support for Palestinians in the Hamas ruled enclave.\n\nIn October 2005, Neturei Karta leader Rabbi Yisroel Dovid Weiss issued a statement criticising Jewish attacks on Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Weiss wrote that Ahmadinejad's statements were not \"indicative of anti-Jewish sentiments\", but rather, \"a yearning for a better, more peaceful world\", and \"re-stating the beliefs and statements of Ayatollah Khomeini, who always emphasized and practiced the respect and protection of Jews and Judaism.\"\n\nIn March 2006, several members of a Neturei Karta's faction visited Iran where they met with Iranian leaders, including the Vice-President, and praised Ahmadinejad for calling for the Zionist regime occupying Jerusalem to vanish from the pages of time. The spokesmen commented that they shared Ahmadinejad's aspiration for \"a disintegration of the Israeli government\". In an interview with Iranian television reporters, Rabbi Weiss remarked, \"The Zionists use the Holocaust issue to their benefit. We, Jews who perished in the Holocaust, do not use it to advance our interests. We stress that there are hundreds of thousands Jews around the world who identify with our opposition to the Zionist ideology and who feel that Zionism is not Jewish, but a political agenda. ... What we want is not a withdrawal to the '67 borders, but to everything included in it, so the country can go back to the Palestinians and we could live with them ...\"\n\nIn December 2006, members of Neturei Karta, including Yisroel Dovid Weiss, attended the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust, a controversial conference being held in Tehran, Iran that attracted a number of high-profile Holocaust-deniers.\n\nIn his speech Weiss explained that the occurrence of the Nazi Holocaust was irrefutable and spoke about the murder of his own grandparents at Auschwitz, but claimed that Zionists had \"collaborated with the Nazis\" and \"thwarted...efforts to save...Jews\" and expressed solidarity with the Iranian position of anti-Zionism. Rabbi Yonah Metzger, the chief Ashkenazi Rabbi of Israel, immediately called for those who went to Tehran to be put into 'cherem', a form of excommunication. Subsequently, the Satmar Hassidism court called on Jews \"to keep away from them and condemn their actions\". \n\nOn 21 December, the Edah HaChareidis rabbinical council of Jerusalem also released a statement calling on the public to distance itself from those who went to Iran. The Edah's statement followed, in major lines, the Satmar statement released a few days earlier. In January 2007, a group of protesters stood outside the radical Neturei Karta synagogue in Monsey, New York, demanding that they leave Monsey and move to Iran. Neturei Karta and their sympathisers from Monsey's Orthodox community responded with a counter protest.\n\nOne of the targets of the 2008 Mumbai attacks was the Nariman House, which was operated by the Jewish Chabad movement. Neturei Karta subsequently issued a leaflet criticising the Chabad movement for its relations with \"the filthy, deplorable traitors – the cursed Zionists that are your friends.\" It added that the Chabad movement has been imbued with \"false national sentiment\" and criticised the organisation for allowing all Jews to stay in its centres, without differentiating \"between good and evil, right and wrong, pure and impure, a Jew and a person who joins another religion, a believer and a heretic.\" The leaflet also criticised the invitation of Israeli state officials to the funerals of the victims, claiming that they \"uttered words of heresy and blasphemy.\" The leaflet concluded that \"the road [Chabad] have taken is the road of death and it leads to doom, assimilation and the uprooting of the Torah.\"\n\nA radical breakaway faction called \"Sikrikim\" is based in Israel, mainly in Jerusalem and Beit Shemesh. The group's engagement in acts of vandalism, \"mafia-like intimidation\" and violent protests caused several people, including authority figures, to push for officially labeling them as a terrorist group, along with Neturei Karta.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41096335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41096335", "title": "Nevada Health Link", "text": "Nevada Health Link\n\nNevada Health Link is the health insurance marketplace for the U.S. state of Nevada. The exchange enables individuals and small businesses to purchase health insurance at federally subsidized rates.\n\nHealth insurance exchanges were established as a part of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to enable individuals to purchase health insurance in state-run marketplaces. In this legislation, states could choose to establish their own health insurance exchanges; if they choose not to do so, the federal government would run the exchange for the state.\n"}
{"id": "48313641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48313641", "title": "Number Cruncher Politics", "text": "Number Cruncher Politics\n\nNumber Cruncher Politics is a political analysis and polling consultancy and blog site launched in 2014. The site is non-partisan and focusses on UK opinion polling, psephology, and statistical analysis. It is perhaps best known for correctly predicting the polling failure at the 2015 general election.\n\nOn the eve the 2015 UK election, the site published a lengthy analysis of opinion polling accuracy by its founder Matt Singh, based on decades of polling and election data. The report suggested that, contrary to the close race suggested by opinion polls and forecasts, the Conservative Party would win by more than six percentage points and could win an overall majority. In the event, the Conservative lead in the popular vote was 6.6 points, giving the party an overall majority of 12 seats. After the publication of the broadcasters' exit poll, the post containing the analysis attracted sufficient traffic to crash the website.\n\nAt the Scottish independence referendum, the site was credited by FiveThirtyEight with the most accurate regional prediction.\n\n"}
{"id": "49276905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49276905", "title": "Operation Anarchist", "text": "Operation Anarchist\n\nOperation Anarchist was a joint operation between the American National Security Agency and British Government Communications Headquarters to monitor advanced weapons systems in the Middle East, with a particular focus on Israel. Begun in 1998, it was publicly exposed in January 2016 as a result of documents released by Edward Snowden. It has been called the worst intelligence breach in Israel's history.\n\nThe operation was run out of GCHQ headquarters in Cheltenham, with most of the surveillance taken from RAF Troodos, a Royal Air Force highly advanced and sophisticated communications and intelligence installation in the Troodos Mountains of Cyprus, with RAF Menwith Hill, a joint US-British satellite surveillance base in Britain, also participating. The Israeli Air Force's UAV fleet was its primary target. Encrypted video transmissions between drones and their bases were intercepted from Troodos and analyzed using powerful advanced computing systems, as well as the open-source software tools ImageMagick and AntiSky, which allow users to patiently sort through the pixels in order to decrypt them. This was the preferred method over using the massive computing power it would have taken to unscramble the encrypted signals in near real time. Some images were clearer than others, as the success of the decryption varied. The intercepted images were largely low-resolution analog feeds used to check the condition of the drones, allowing the NSA and GCHQ to see the payloads the drones were carrying, but not the actual surveillance data. Surveillance feeds were, however, sometimes captured from small Israeli drones. GCHQ and NSA also successfully breached the security of Israeli military and communication satellites which were encrypted. \n\nCapturing these videos became very difficult as Israel shifted to using digital video feeds mixed with other data, with a 2010 GCHQ report noting that it lacked the systems to properly monitor the new Israeli technological capabilities. In addition to footage from drone cameras, the operation also tracked the movements of Israeli drones, using the transmissions drones sent off to update their bases on their location. Satellite surveillance systems at Menwith Hill were used to intercept transmissions between Israeli drones and satellites, capturing 20 separate videos in all. Training missions, as well as operations over the Golan Heights were monitored, with Israeli preparations for a possible strike on Iran watched extremely closely. One leaked report noted that Israeli drones were also being monitored due to Israeli UAV exports to many other countries, and \"Yedioth Ahronoth\" noted that this, along with the great interest shown in precisely what radar was mounted on the drones, indicated a commercial interest in the drones in addition to a security interest.\n\nWhile drones were the primary target, on January 3, 2008, computer technicians from Menwith Hill managed to capture 14 seconds of cockpit footage from an Israeli F-16 fighter jet on a bombing mission over Gaza, showing a target on the ground being closely tracked. A sub-operation of Operation Anarchist, code-named Operation Runway, tracked the Israeli Black Sparrow air-launched missiles, which were used as targeting missiles during tests of the Arrow missile.\n\nIn addition to Israel, advanced weapons systems used by Egypt, Turkey, Iran, Syria, and Hezbollah were also hacked into. In particular, the operation managed to obtain footage of Iranian-made drones operated by Hezbollah and Syrian Armed Forces.\n\nOn January 28, 2016, \"The Intercept\", \"Der Spiegel\", and \"Yedioth Ahronoth\" jointly broke the story, based on documents provided by NSA leaker Edward Snowden.\n\nIsrael announced that it was disappointed, but not surprised by the reports. An Israeli security official referred to Operation Anarchist as \"an earthquake… the worst leak in the history of Israeli intelligence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31910779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31910779", "title": "Pauline Dempers", "text": "Pauline Dempers\n\nPauline Frannzisca Dempers (born 28 April 1962 in Aranos, Hardap Region) is a Namibian human rights activist and politician. In 1996, Dempers became national coordinator for Breaking the Wall of Silence (BWS), a group which advocates for the rights of those detained by SWAPO during the Namibian War of Independence. Dempers was active with the Congress of Democrats.\n\nDempers was a prominent anti-apartheid activist in southern Namibia prior to fleeing into exile in 1983 to join SWAPO. She and hundreds of other Namibian exiles were arrested by SWAPO in 1986 while living near Lubango, Angola. She was tortured and held in the 'dungeons' of Lubango prior to being released and repatriated to Namibia following the moves towards independence which culminated in March 1990. Dempers became national coordinator for BWS in 1999, three years after its formation.\n\nIn 2007, Dempers was part of a controversy as a member of the Central Committee of the then-party of opposition Congress of Democrats. She and other committee members were expelled by a faction of the party led by Ben Ulenga. She joined up with the faction led by Ignatius Shixwameni and formed an 'interim national committee'.\n\nIn March 2008, close friend and fellow detainee Kalla Gertze died from an asthma attack. In eulogising Dempers, Gertze and called for members of the National Assembly members to open the debate on the Lubango detainees.\n\n"}
{"id": "24004485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24004485", "title": "Political views of Albert Einstein", "text": "Political views of Albert Einstein\n\nAlbert Einstein was widely known during his lifetime for his work with the theory of relativity and physics in general. He was also an important peace activist, a world federalist and a socialist. His political opinions were of public interest through the middle of the 20th century due to his fame and involvement in political, humanitarian and academic projects around the world. He was often called upon to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics. Einstein's visible position in society allowed him to speak and write frankly, even provocatively, at a time when many people were silenced due to the rise of the Nazi movement.\n\nEinstein participated in the 1927 congress of the League against Imperialism in Brussels. Einstein also met with many humanists and humanitarian luminaries including Rabindranath Tagore with whom he had extensive conversations in 1930 prior to leaving Germany.\n\nBorn in Ulm, Einstein was a German citizen from birth. As he grew older, Einstein's pacifism often clashed with the German Empire's militant views at the time. At the age of 17, Einstein renounced his German citizenship and moved to Switzerland to attend college. The loss of Einstein's citizenship allowed him to avoid service in the military, which suited his pacifist views. In response to a Manifesto of the Ninety-Three signed by 93 leading German intellectuals including Max Planck in support of the German war effort, Einstein and three others wrote a counter-manifesto.\nEinstein accepted a position at the University of Berlin in 1914, returning to Germany where he spent his time during the rest of World War I. Einstein also reacquired his German citizenship. In the years after the war, Einstein was very vocal in his support for Germany. In 1918, Einstein was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party. In 1921, Einstein refused to attend the third Solvay Congress in Belgium, as his German compatriots were excluded. In 1922, Einstein joined a committee sponsored by the League of Nations, but quickly left when the League refused to act on France's occupation of the Ruhr in 1923. As a member of the German League of Human Rights, Einstein worked hard to repair relations between Germany and France.\n\nEinstein moved to the United States in December 1932, where he worked at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California, and lectured at Abraham Flexner's newly founded Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. Einstein renounced his German citizenship in 1933 due to the rise of Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party.\n\nDuring the 1930s and into World War II, Einstein wrote affidavits recommending United States visas for European Jews who were trying to flee persecution and lobbied for looser immigration rules. He raised money for Zionist organizations and was, in part, responsible for the 1933 formation of the International Rescue Committee.\n\nIn Germany, \"Deutsche Physik\" activists published pamphlets and even textbooks denigrating Einstein. Nobel laureates Philipp Lenard and Johannes Stark led a campaign to eliminate Einstein's work from the German lexicon as unacceptable \"Jewish physics\" (\"Jüdische Physik\"). Instructors who taught his theories were blacklisted, including Nobel laureate Werner Heisenberg, who had debated quantum probability with Bohr and Einstein. Philipp Lenard claimed that the mass–energy equivalence formula needed to be credited to Friedrich Hasenöhrl to make it an Aryan creation. A man convicted of inciting others to kill Einstein was fined a mere six dollars.\n\nAfter World War II ended, and the Nazis were removed from power, Einstein refused to associate with Germany. Einstein refused several honors bestowed upon him by Germany, as he could not forgive the Germans for the Holocaust, where six million of his fellow Jews were killed. Einstein, however, re-visited Germany on a trip to Europe in 1952.\n\nEinstein was a prominent supporter of both Labor Zionism and efforts to encourage Jewish-Arab cooperation. He supported the creation of a Jewish national homeland in the British mandate of Palestine but was opposed to the idea of a Jewish state \"with borders, an army, and a measure of temporal power.\" According to Marc Elis, Einstein declared himself a human being, a Jew, an opponent of nationalism, and a Zionist.; he supported the idea of a Jewish homeland in Palestine but until summer 1947 conceived of this as a bi-national state with \"continuously functioning, mixed, administrative, economic, and social organizations.\"\n\nHis speeches and lectures about Zionism were published in 1931 by The Macmillan Company and eleven of these essays were collected in a 1933 book entitled \"Mein Weltbild\" and translated into English as \"The World as I See It\"; Einstein's foreword dedicates the collection \"to the Jews of Germany\". In the face of Germany's rising militarism, Einstein wrote and spoke for peace.\n\nEinstein publicly stated reservations about the proposal to partition the British mandate of Palestine into independent Arab and Jewish countries. In a 1938 speech, \"Our Debt to Zionism\", he said: \"I should much rather see reasonable agreement with the Arabs on the basis of living together in peace than the creation of a Jewish state. My awareness of the essential nature of Judaism resists the idea of a Jewish state with borders, an army, and a measure of temporal power, no matter how modest. I am afraid of the inner damage Judaism will sustain—especially from the development of a narrow nationalism within our own ranks, against which we have already had to fight strongly, even without a Jewish state. ... If external necessity should after all compel us to assume this burden, let us bear it with tact and patience.\". His attitudes were nuanced: In his testimony before the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry in January 1946 he stated that he was not in favour of the creation of a Jewish state, while in a 1947 letter to Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru intended to persuade India to support the establishment of a Jewish state, Einstein stated that the Balfour Declaration's proposal to establish a national home for Jews in Palestine \"redresses the balance\" of justice and history, claiming that \"at the end of the first world war, the Allies gave the Arabs 99% of the vast, underpopulated territories liberated from the Turks to satisfy their national aspirations and five independent Arab states were established. One per cent was reserved for the Jews in the land of their origin\". Einstein remained strongly supportive of unlimited Jewish immigration to Palestine.\n\nThe United Nations ultimately recommended division the mandate and the establishment of a Jewish State, and the 1948 Arab-Israeli war broke out as the mandate ended. Einstein was one of the authors of an open letter to the \"New York Times\" in 1948 deeply criticizing Menachem Begin's Herut (Freedom) Party for the Deir Yassin massacre likening it to \"the Nazi and Fascist parties\" and stated \"The Deir Yassin incident exemplifies the character and actions of the Freedom Party\". This letter has led some to believe Einstein to be anti-Zionist, although Einstein's motivation was a concern for the future of Israel if the Freedom Party continued to gain power. When President Harry Truman recognized Israel in May 1948, Einstein declared it \"the fulfillment of our (Jewish) dreams.\" Einstein also supported vice president Henry Wallace’s Progressive Party during the 1948 Presidential election which also advocated a pro-Soviet and pro-Israel foreign policy. \nEinstein served on the Board of Governors of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In his Will of 1950, Einstein bequeathed literary rights to his writings to The Hebrew University, where many of his original documents are held in the Albert Einstein Archives.\n\nWhen President Chaim Weizmann died in 1952, Einstein was asked to be Israel's second president, but he declined, stating that he had \"neither the natural ability nor the experience to deal with human beings.\" He wrote: \"I am deeply moved by the offer from our State of Israel, and at once saddened and ashamed that I cannot accept it.\"\n\nEinstein was a proponent of civil rights. When he arrived in America, he objected to the mistreatment of African Americans. Einstein, who had experienced heavy anti-Semitic discrimination in pre-World War II Germany, worked with a number of leading civil rights activists and civil rights organizations (such as the Princeton chapter of the NAACP) to demand equality and denounce racism and segregation. Wherever he saw injustice, Einstein spoke out. When African-American singer and civil rights supporter Marian Anderson was denied rooms at hotels and forbidden to eat at public restaurants, Einstein invited her to his home. After a bloody racial riot in 1946 in which 500 state troopers with submachine guns attacked and destroyed virtually every black-owned business in a four-square-block area in Tennessee and arrested 25 black men for attempted murder, Einstein joined Eleanor Roosevelt, Langston Hughes, and Thurgood Marshall to fight for justice for the men. Later, 24 of the 25 defendants were acquitted.\n\nIn 1946, the Nobel Prize-winning physicist traveled to Lincoln University in Pennsylvania, the alma mater of Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall and the first school in America to grant college degrees to blacks. At Lincoln, Einstein received an honorary degree and gave a lecture on relativity to Lincoln students.\n\nAlso, when two black couples were murdered in Monroe, Georgia, and justice was not served, Einstein was so outraged, he lent his prominence to actor and activist Paul Robeson’s American Crusade to End Lynching and wrote a letter to President Truman calling for prosecution of lynchers and passage of a federal anti-lynching law. He became good friends with Robeson and when Robeson was blacklisted because of his activism against racism, again it was Einstein who opened his home to his long-time friend of 20 years.\n\nFrom the Scottsboro Boys case to the numerous attempts to stop the execution of Willie McGee, a black Mississippi sharecropper accused of raping a white woman, and efforts to prevent New Jersey from extraditing Sam Buckhannon, a black Georgian who had escaped a chain gang after serving 18 years for stealing a pack of cigarettes, Einstein used his fame to condemn American racism.\nWritten between October 1922 and March 1923, the diaries of Einstein released in 2018 contains what has been called racist remarks. He notes how the “Chinese don’t sit on benches while eating but squat like Europeans do when they relieve themselves out in the leafy woods. All this occurs quietly and demurely. Even the children are spiritless and look obtuse.” After earlier writing of the “abundance of offspring” and the “fecundity” of the Chinese, he goes on to say: “It would be a pity if these Chinese supplant all other races. For the likes of us the mere thought is unspeakably dreary.” \n\nEinstein’s perceptions of the Japanese he meets are, in contrast, more positive: “Japanese unostentatious, decent, altogether very appealing,” he writes. “Pure souls as nowhere else among people. One has to love and admire this country.”\n\nEinstein was one of the thousands of signatories of Magnus Hirschfeld's petition against Paragraph 175 of the German penal code, which condemned homosexuality. The petition ran for more than thirty years in the intellectual circles thanks to the activity of Hirschfeld's \"Wissenschaftlich-humanitäres Komitee\" (Scientific-Humanitarian Committee), which collected many signatures from the Jewish intellectual elite.\n\nEinstein was opposed to violence against animals, so he thought that one should \"embrace all living creatures\". Also he sympathized with the idea of Vegetarianism. The latest indications, a letter written to Hans Mühsam, dated March 30, 1954, suggest that Einstein was a vegetarian for the last year of his life, though he appears to have supported the idea for many years before practicing it himself. In this letter Einstein states that he was feeling quite well without non-vegetarian food and that \"man was not born to be a carnivore\". But already a year before he wrote in another letter: \"I have always eaten animal flesh with a somewhat guilty conscience\".\n\nConcerned scientists, many of them refugees in the U.S. from German anti-Semitism, recognized the danger of German scientists' developing an atomic bomb based on the newly discovered phenomena of nuclear fission. In 1939, the Hungarian émigré Leó Szilárd, having failed to arouse U.S. government interest on his own, worked with Einstein to write a letter to U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, which Einstein signed, urging U.S. development of such a weapon. On 11 October 1939 Alexander Sachs, an adviser to Roosevelt on economic affairs, delivered the Einstein–Szilárd letter and persuaded the president of its importance. \"This requires action\", Roosevelt told an aide, and authorized secret research into the harnessing of nuclear fission for military purposes.\n\nBy 1942 this effort had become the Manhattan Project, the largest secret scientific endeavor undertaken up to that time. By late 1945, the U.S., with support from the United Kingdom and Canada, had developed operational nuclear weapons, and used them on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Einstein himself did not play a role in the development of the atomic bomb other than signing the letter although he did help the United States Navy with some unrelated theoretical questions it was working on during the war.\n\nAccording to Linus Pauling, Einstein later expressed regret about his letter to Roosevelt, adding that Einstein had originally justified his decision because of the greater danger that Nazi Germany would develop the bomb first. In 1947, Einstein told \"Newsweek\" magazine that \"had I known that the Germans would not succeed in developing an atomic bomb, I would have done nothing.\" In that same year, he wrote an article for \"The Atlantic Monthly\" arguing that the United States should not try to pursue an atomic monopoly, and instead should equip the United Nations with nuclear weapons for the sole purpose of maintaining deterrence.\n\nWhen he was a visible figure working against the rise of Nazism, Einstein had sought help and developed working relationships in both the West and what was to become the Soviet bloc. After World War II, enmity between the former allies became a very serious issue for people with international résumés. To make things worse, during the first days of McCarthyism, Einstein was writing about a single world government; it was at this time that he wrote, \"I do not know how the third World War will be fought, but I can tell you what they will use in the Fourth — sticks and stones.\" In a 1949 \"Monthly Review\" article entitled \"Why Socialism?\" Albert Einstein described a chaotic capitalist society, a source of evil to be overcome, as the \"predatory phase of human development\" . With Albert Schweitzer and Bertrand Russell, Einstein lobbied to stop nuclear testing and future bombs. Days before his death, Einstein signed the Russell-Einstein Manifesto, which led to the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs.\n\nEinstein was a member of several civil rights groups, including the Princeton chapter of the NAACP. When the aged W. E. B. Du Bois was accused of being a Communist spy, Einstein volunteered as a character witness, and the case was dismissed shortly afterward. Einstein's friendship with activist Paul Robeson, with whom he served as co-chair of the American Crusade to End Lynching, lasted twenty years.\n\nIn 1946, Einstein collaborated with Rabbi Israel Goldstein, Middlesex University heir C. Ruggles Smith, and activist attorney George Alpert on the Albert Einstein Foundation for Higher Learning, which was formed to create a Jewish-sponsored secular university, open to all students, on the grounds of the former Middlesex University in Waltham, Massachusetts. Middlesex was chosen in part because it was accessible from both Boston and New York City, Jewish cultural centers of the U.S. Their vision was a university \"deeply conscious both of the Hebraic tradition of Torah looking upon culture as a birthright, and of the American ideal of an educated democracy.\" The collaboration was stormy, however. Finally, when Einstein wanted to appoint British economist Harold Laski as the university's president, George Alpert wrote that Laski was \"a man utterly alien to American principles of democracy, tarred with the Communist brush.\" Einstein withdrew his support and barred the use of his name. The university opened in 1948 as Brandeis University. In 1953, Brandeis offered Einstein an honorary degree, but he declined.\n\nEinstein was in favour of socialism and in opposition to capitalism, as illustrated by the following quote:\n\n<br>\nEinstein thought highly of Vladimir Lenin, saying: \"I honor Lenin as a man who completely sacrificed himself and devoted all his energy to the realization of social justice. I do not consider his methods practical, but one thing is certain: men of his type are the guardians and restorers of humanity.\"\n\nEinstein held Georgism (named after the political economist Henry George) in high regard, writing: \"One cannot imagine a more beautiful combination of intellectual keenness, artistic form and fervent love of justice.\"\n\nGiven Einstein's links to Germany and Zionism, his socialist ideals, and his links to Communist figures, the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation kept a file on Einstein that grew to 1,427 pages.\n\nEinstein considered Joseph McCarthy, a U.S. senator involved in the anti-communist Red Scare, a danger to intellectual freedom. William Frauenglass, a New York city school teacher who, having been called to testify, refused, and facing dismissal from his position, wrote to Einstein for support. In his reply, Einstein stated: \"The reactionary politicians have managed to instill suspicion of all intellectual efforts into the public by dangling before their eyes a danger from without. Having succeeded so far they are now proceeding to suppress the freedom of teaching and to deprive of their positions all those who do not prove submissive, i.e. to starve them.\"\nHis advice: \"Every intellectual who is called before one of the committees ought to refuse to testify, i.e. he must be prepared for jail and economic ruin, in short, for the sacrifice of his personal welfare in the interest of the cultural welfare of his country.\"\n\nConcluding, Einstein said, \"If enough people are ready to take this grave step they will be successful. If not, then the intellectuals of this country deserve nothing better than the slavery which is intended for them.\"\n\nEinstein was a lifelong pacifist and believed that wars stood in the way of human progress. He believed that wars were the result of natural aggressive tendencies found within all organisms and that the aims and causes of war were simply justification for these tendencies. He advocated the creation of a supranational organization would make war as impossible in Europe as it was impossible between the former kingdoms that comprised the German Empire. Einstein was horrified by the destruction caused by World War I and promoted what he referred to as the \"two percent plan\". According to the plan, nations would be unable to wage war if one in 50 men refused to serve in the military.\n\nDespite these views, following the rise to power of Adolf Hitler, Einstein became a vocal advocate for preparedness, recognizing the dangers of Nazi Germany gaining an advantage over the Western Allies. Alarmed at Hitler’s territorial ambitions, Einstein actively encouraged Belgians to join the military to protect European civilization. He explained the change in his outlook in 1941:\n\nIn the twenties, when no dictatorships existed, I advocated that refusing to go to war would make war improper. But as soon as coercive conditions appeared in certain nations, I felt that it would weaken the less aggressive nations vis-à-vis the more aggressive ones.\n\nEinstein justified his letter to President Roosevelt recommending that an atomic bomb be produced by writing:\n\n...it seemed probable that the Germans might be working on the same problem with every prospect of success. I had no alternative but to act as I did, \"although I have always been a convinced pacifist.\" (emphasis in original)\n\nWhen questioned about this position, Einstein wrote:\n\nI did not say that I was an \"absolute\" pacifist, but rather that I has always been a \"convinced\" pacifist. While I am a convinced pacifist, there are circumstances in which I believe the use of force is appropriate – namely, in the face of an enemy unconditionally bent on destroying me and my people. ... I am a \"dedicated\" but not an \"absolute\" pacifist; this means that I am opposed to the use of force under any circumstances except when confronted by an enemy who pursues the destruction of life as an \"end in itself\". (emphasis in original)\n\nHe further explained:\n\nI have always been a pacifist, i.e. I have declined to recognize brute force as a means for the solution of international conflicts. Nevertheless, it is, in my opinion, not reasonable to cling to that principle unconditionally. An exception has necessarily to be made if a hostile power threatens wholesale destruction of one's own group.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of World War II, Einstein once again became a constant and vocal activist for world peace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2498438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498438", "title": "Republican Left of the Valencian Country", "text": "Republican Left of the Valencian Country\n\nRepublican Left of the Valencian Country (, ERPV) is a Valencian left nationalist and republican party.\n\nThe original ERPV was founded in 1933, then disbanded in 1935. In 2000 the vacant ERPV name was taken by the party resulting from the merge of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya's (ERC) Valencian section and the Front pel País Valencià (Front for the Valencian Country).\n\nERPV is currently the main explicit sponsor of the \"Països Catalans\" idea in the Valencian Country, where poor electoral results so far limit its participation to a marginal role.\n\nThe party was founded during the Spanish Second Republic and became established under the leadership of Gaietà Huguet, in Castellón. In 1935, he impelled a merging with the party Esquerra Valenciana (\"Valencian Left\", EV), founded in 1934 and led by Vicent Marco Miranda (ex-Mayor of Valencia), Josep Benedito, Miquel Duran de València and Manuel Sanchís-Guarner. After Vicent Marco obtained in 1936 the act of deputy in Valencia within the candidatures of the Popular Front both parties joint in a common parliamentary group in the Spanish Congress with the name of Catalan Left.\n\nIn 1935, ERPV disbanded and merged as a fraction in EV. The Spanish Civil War truncated many political projects in which Esquerra Valenciana participated, the most important of which was a project of a Valencian statute of autonomy with the official name of \"País Valencià\" (rendered in English by some as \"Valencian Country\", see names of the Valencian Community), which would have granted similar autonomous powers as with the other so-called historical nationalities in Spain (namely, Andalusia, Basque country, Catalonia and Galicia). In spite of it, Esquerra Valenciana, the main party in which ERPV had diluted, reached their maximum growth in that period, arriving to exceed 10,000 affiliated.\n\nUnder the regime of Francisco Franco, Esquerra Valenciana (the party which ERPV had merged with in 1935) was suppressed. Then, after Franco's death, the Spanish Transition and the advent of democracy in Spain, ERPV was not revived.\n\nIn 2000, a group of members of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya (ERC) in Valencia, decided to revive the ERPV vacant acronym and, led by Agustí Cerdà, claimed to have refounded the party as the Valencian branch of ERC.\n\nThen, 2003 saw ERPV's comeback to democratic elections in the Valencian Community, after more than 60 years of its last electoral contest. The party participated in elections to a number of Valencian city councils. It did not achieve representation elsewhere other than in Sueca.\n\nERPV run in the 2007 election to the Corts Valencianes under the \"Esquerra\" plain name, achieving 0.49% of the total votes which was far from the 5% threshold needed to achieve representation. Out of a total of 5,622 local councilors elected in the 542 Valencian municipalities, ERPV is currently represented by four local councilors in three municipalities, which limits its participation in Valencian politics to a marginal role.\n\nDespite its status in Valencia, at the Spanish general election, 2004 ERPV's leader Agustí Cerdà was elected as an MP himself at the Spanish Parliament. This was made possible by including him in the ERC electoral ticket in Catalonia instead of running for any given Valencian electoral constituency, where ERPV does not achieve any representation other than the few councilors aforementioned.\n\nThen, at the following Spanish general election, 2008, which saw ERC's results halved in Catalonia, Agustí Cerdà was one of the incumbents who lost his seat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463125", "title": "Respect Party", "text": "Respect Party\n\nThe Respect Party was a left-wing to far-left political party active in the United Kingdom between 2004 and 2016. At the height of its success in 2007, the party had one Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons and nineteen councillors in local government.\n\nThe Respect Party was established in London by Salma Yaqoob and George Monbiot in 2004. It grew out of the Stop the War Coalition, and from the start revolved largely around opposition to the United Kingdom's role in the Iraq War. Uniting a range of leftist and anti-war groups, it was unofficially allied to the far-left Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and Muslim Association of Britain (MAB). In 2005, Respect's candidate George Galloway was elected MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, while the party came second in three other constituencies. The party made further gains in the 2006 and 2007 local elections, at which point its support peaked. In 2007, a schism emerged in the party between SWP-supporters and the Respect Renewal group led by Galloway and Yaqoob; the former group left the party to form the Left List. Over the coming years, Respect gradually lost its council seats and it deregistered with the Electoral Commission in 2016.\n\nAvowedly socialist and opposed to capitalism, it called for the nationalisation of much of the UK economy, increased funding to public services, and further measures to tackle poverty and discrimination. It was Eurosceptic and promoted an anti-imperialist worldview. It was also Anti-Zionist, opposing the existence of Israel and endorsing the Palestinian solidarity movement. Several commentators claimed that Islamism was a component of its ideology and regarded it as part of a wider alliance between socialists and Islamists within Western Europe. Respect's voting base was primarily among the British Muslim communities in East London, Birmingham and Bradford, where it built upon opposition to the Iraq War and disenchantment among leftist voters with the governing Labour Party.\n\nThe political scientists Matthew Goodwin and Robert Ford characterised Respect as a \"broad coalition of left-wing interests\" which had arisen in opposition to the New Labour government and the UK's involvement in the invasion of Iraq. Other political scientists characterised the party as far-left. The socialist activist Tariq Ali characterised the party's programme as being social democratic in orientation.\nEran Benedek described the party as \"an amalgamation of radical international socialism and Islamism\", adding that its radical socialist position was informed by Marxism-Leninism and Trotskyism. Benedek characterised it as a manifestation of what Amir Taheri called the \"Marxist-Islamist coalition\" which united around opposition to the United States, a desire to destroy the state of Israel, and a wish to overthrow international capitalism. Similarly, Emmanuel Karagiannis characterised the party as \"the epitome\" of the \"convergence\" between radical left and Islamist groups in Western Europe.\n\nThe party's policies have been described as \"traditionally leftist and anti-capitalist\".\nRespect encouraged the nationalisation of many sectors of the economy, including the railways, water, gas, electricity, and the North Sea oil industry. It urged a substantial increase in corporation tax in order to increase funding to public services. It sought to overturn what it described as \"anti-trade union\" legislation, and to introduce policies to deal with issues of poverty and discrimination. Respect promoted revolutionary socialism and international socialism.\nThe party was largely hostile to Western capitalism and neoliberalism and interpreted many world events through the prism of anti-imperialism, calling for an end to what it characterised as imperialist wars like that in Iraq. Respect was anti-globalization, believing that it resulted in the exploitation of the working class. It also expressed a Eurosceptic approach to the European Union, deeming the Union to be lacking in democracy and exploitative toward the working class.\n\nRespect was anti-Zionist and rejected the state of Israel's right to exist. It rhetorically presented this position through the terminology of social justice and human rights. One of its core principles was stated support for the Palestinian people and opposition to what Respect described as \"the apartheid system that oppresses them\". It was constitutionally committed to supporting the Palestine Solidarity Campaign and the boycotting of Israel. It calls for Israel to withdraw from any land conquered in 1967, and for the right of return to be granted to all Palestinians forced to move on the formation of the state of Israel in 1948. On its website and published fliers, it included maps of the Levant in which the entirety of Israel was labelled \"Occupied Palestine\". In 2017, the party's website asserts: \"Respect supports the idea of a democratic bi-national solution of one state from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea in which all people, Jews, Muslims and Christians live equally; one man, one woman, one vote\" and says British foreign policy should recognise Britain's \"partial responsibility for the problem by their participation in the creation of the state of Israel\".\n\nAccording to the party's national council member Yvonne Ridley, speaking at London's Imperial College in February 2006, Respect \"is a Zionist-free party... if there was any Zionism in the Respect Party they would be hunted down and kicked out.\" This rejection of Israel's right to exist and characterisation of it as a garrison of American imperialism in the Middle East had a longer presence in Trotskyist thought, having been espoused by the SWP prior to the establishment of Respect.\n\nIn February 2013, Galloway walked out of a debate organised by Christ Church, Oxford because his opponent was an Israeli citizen. He explained his actions thus: \"The reason is simple: no recognition, no normalisation. Just boycott, divestment and sanctions, until the apartheid state is defeated. I never debate with Israelis nor speak to their media. If they want to speak about Palestine – the address is the PLO.\" The Zionist Federation called it a \"racist\" walkout displaying \"xenophobic\" tendencies.\n\nRespect were supportive of anti-Zionist Islamist militant groups like Hezbollah and Hamas. In July 2006, Respect official Lindsey German stated that \"whatever disagreements I have with Hamas and Hezbollah, I would rather be in their camp... they want democracy. Democracy in the Middle East \"is\" Hamas, \"is\" Hezbollah\". In September 2006 Galloway met with Hamas leader Khaled Mashal and in November 2006 the party's national-secretary John Rees attended the Beirut International Conference that was organised by Hezbollah.\n\nRespect emerged from the British anti-war movement which had developed from late 2001 onward. The Stop the War Coalition (StWC) had been established in September 2001, with a central role being played by the Socialist Workers Party (SWP), which was then the largest radical left group in the UK. The StWC's President was Tony Benn, a Labour Member of Parliament (MP) until 2001, while it also gained the support of several rebel Labour MPs, among them Katy Clark, Jeremy Corbyn, Tam Dalyell, Alice Mahon, and George Galloway. The StWC had also attracted significant support from within Britain's Muslim community, and the Muslim Association of Britain (MAB) officially affiliated itself with the coalition. The movement politicised a large number of young British Muslims, among them Salma Yaqoob, who became the head of the StWC branch in Birmingham.\n\nGalloway later revealed that, about a year before the UK and US launched the Iraq War, he had broached the subject of leaving Labour and establishing a new party with his friends Seumas Milne and Andrew Murray. At the time—he later stated—he was of the view that UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush had already committed to invading Iraq. Galloway was vocal in his opposition to Blair's calls for an invasion, and in May 2003 he was suspended from the Labour Party and then expelled in October, having been found to have brought it into disrepute. He then announced that he would stand against Labour in the 2004 European Parliament elections, and that he would \"seek to unify the red, green, anti-war, Muslim and other social constituencies radicalised by the war, in a referendum on Tony Blair\". \n\nThe two main instigators of the party were Yaqoob and \"The Guardian\" journalist George Monbiot. They had been part of a discussion surrounding the unification of a broad range of anti-war forces that were to the left of Labour, a successor to the Socialist Alliance electoral list that had contested the 2001 general election. They wanted to reach out beyond the far left's traditional support base and gain support from peace activists and religious groups, particularly the Muslim community. In November 2003, a number of public meetings were held under the title of \"British Politics at the Crossroads\", at which it was agreed that a new political party should be established. At a convention on 24 January 2004, the party, titled \"Respect – the Unity Coalition\", was officially declared. The name \"RESPECT\" was a contrived acronym for respect, equality, socialism, peace, environmentalism, community, and trade unionism. Galloway said in April 2004: \"Respect. It's a young word. It's a black word. It's the first postmodern name for an electoral political movement; most are one or other arrangement of the words The, Something, and Party. With respect, we're different.\"\nOpposition to the Iraq War was the party's primary issue, around which it galvanised much of its support.\n\nAt its foundation, the party also called for a halt to privatisation and the renationalisation of the British railways. Although it did not secure the full backing of any major trade unions, some local branches of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT)—which had disaffiliated from Labour in February 2004—voted to support Respect. Although containing members from both the SWP and MAB, Respect was not a formal coalition between the two groups. There remained tension between SWP members and Muslim leaders within the party from the beginnings of Respect. This alliance was also criticised by some observers; in June 2004, the political commentator Nick Cohen wrote that \"for the first time since the Enlightenment, a section of the left is allied with religious fanaticism and, for the first time since the Hitler-Stalin pact, a section of the left has gone soft on fascism.\"\n\nRespect initially tried to form an electoral pact with the Green Party of England and Wales but this proved unsuccessful. The Greens stated that they had selected their candidates for the 2004 European Parliamentary elections by postal ballot months previously and that they were also sceptical of the SWP's influence over Respect. After Respect decided to stand candidates against the Greens, in February 2004 Monbiot stepped down from the party, claiming that to compete against the Greens might threaten the positions of \"two of the best elected representatives in Britain\", the Green Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) Caroline Lucas and Jean Lambert.\n\nRespect fielded candidates for both the 2004 elections for the European Parliament (EP) and for the London Assembly, attempting to present these elections as a referendum on Blair's Labour government. The party claims that this support was achieved primarily as a result of the anti-war protests and by attracting votes from \"disillusioned\" Labour voters. The party was widely derided in the British media, which viewed Respect as a single-issue party that would soon disappear from British politics.\n\nRespect polled a quarter of a million votes in the EP election. Its proportion of the national vote was 1.7%, which grew to 5% in London, although it failed to win any seats. The strong showing of the Greens and the UK Independence Party had been part of the reason for this failure to secure a seat. In the London Assembly election, Respect secured 4.5% of the vote, meaning that they did not secure a seat on the Assembly. However, within both the London Borough of Newham and the London Borough of Tower Hamlets—both areas with large Muslim populations—Respect secured the largest number of votes, with over 20% in both. Respect mocked Ken Livingstone's Labour candidacy as the \"Blair Mayor Project\".\n\nRespect's first election victory was in the council by-election for the St Dunstan's and Stepney Green ward of Tower Hamlets, where its candidate, Oliur Rahman, secured 31% of the vote. The results at the Birmingham Hodge Hill and Leicester South by-elections, both held on 15 July 2004, were 6.3% and 12.7% of the vote respectively. At the time, Respect had a council seat in Nuneaton and Preston after defections from other parties.\nThe coalition put up candidates in 26 constituencies across England and Wales, just under half of them from the SWP. However, Britain's first past the post electoral system made it difficult for small parties to make gains unless they geographically concentrated their vote. Respect recognised that East London, an area with large numbers of Muslim British Bangladeshis, would be electorally lucrative, particularly as three of the area's four sitting Labour MPs had voted in favour of British participation in the invasion of Iraq. In the 2005 general election, Respect fielded candidates in this area: Lindsey German in West Ham, Abdul Khaliq Mian in East Ham, Rahman in Poplar and Canning Town, and Galloway in Bethnal Green and Bow.\n\nGalloway sought to unseat the sitting Labour MP, Oona King, and the ensuing campaign for the seat has been cited as \"one of the most acrimonious in recent history\". King accused Galloway of sexual impropriety, although was later forced to retract those allegations. She alleged that she had been the victim of Anti-Semitism from Respect supporters after having been pelted with eggs at a Jewish memorial service. She also claimed that Respect canvassers had urged Muslims not to vote for her because she is Jewish. Respect threatened legal action if King repeated the claim.\n\nRespect won 0.3% of the national vote, with an average of 6.8% of the vote in the constituencies it had contested; 17 of its candidates failed to have their deposits returned. However, Galloway won the seat of Bethnal Green and Bow by a narrow margin of 823 votes. Galloway's surprise victory provided much momentum for his party. His victory represented the first time that a party to the left of Labour had won a seat in the Houses of Parliament since 1951. Respect also did well in several other constituencies, coming second to Labour in both West Ham and East Ham and also securing second place in Birmingham Sparkbrook and Small Heath, where Yaqoob had been its candidate, securing 27.5% of the vote.\nRespect made \"rapid progress\", aided by growing finances and the existing campaign experience of the far left. By the end of 2005, in the London Borough of Newham, two Labour and one Liberal Democrat councillor had defected to Respect. By December 2005, it had an official membership of 5,674. Galloway, however, told Decca Aitkenhead in April 2012 for a \"Guardian\" profile that Respect, at its peak, only had about 3-4,000 members. By 2007 its university wing, Student Respect, claimed to have branches in over fifty campuses across England and Wales. Benedek suggested that this probably made it the fastest growing student political group in the UK. The SWP's student group, the Socialist Worker Student Society (SWSS), encouraged its members to join Respect and became largely dormant.\n\nIn 2006, Galloway appeared on Channel 4's reality television show \"Celebrity Big Brother\". His hope was to use it as a public relations exercise in which he could promote his views to a wider audience, however this backfired as Channel 4 producers censored most of his political discussions. Media attention instead focused on the fact that he had seemingly abandoned his constituents to appear in the show and on an episode in which he had impersonated a cat. This did little to damage Respect's electoral appeal.\n\nRespect stood about 150 candidates in the 2006 local elections, at which it secured 16 seats. At Respect's campaign launch, Galloway anticipated a \"referendum on new Labour\", and said the election \"will be the last blow that will knock out Tony Blair\". In Tower Hamlets, Respect took eleven new council seats, giving it a total of twelve and making it the borough's official opposition to Labour. In Newham, Respect gained 26% of the vote and returned its three councillors, although was disappointed not to gain further ones. In Birmingham, Respect gained 55% of the vote in the Sparkbrook ward and Yaqoob was elected as the city's first female Muslim councillor. None of the new Respect councillors were connected with the SWP. Galloway explained at the time that many Respect supporters \"are small business people and wouldn't describe themselves as socialists and are not bound to accept it.\"\n\nRespect stood 48 candidates in the 2007 local election, of which three were elected. The party had peaked, and following this would witness a decline. In July 2007, Galloway was suspended from the House of Commons for 18 days after the standards and privileges commit accused him of a lack of transparency in the financing of is charity, the Mariam Appeal. In August, a Respect councillor in Tower Hamlets resigned, triggering a by-election which Harun Miah narrowly secured for Respect.\n\nThe SWP had been members of Respect's \"Unity Coalition\" since its early years, although relations between them and Galloway had been strained. In August 2007 he wrote a letter to the party's national council stating that Respect had various internal weaknesses, with many deeming this a veiled criticism of the SWP. This generated rifts within the SWP itself as two of its members were expelled for refusing to step down as Galloway's parliamentary assistants. By October, SWP publications were claiming that there was a \"witch hunt\" against socialists within Respect, despite the presence of socialist groups other than the SWP. That month, disagreements between Rahman and Abjol Miah, leader of the Respect group in Tower Hamlets, resulted in four of the borough's councillors resigning the Respect Party whip.\n\nBy November 2007, Respect had split into two rival factions. The first consisted largely of members affiliated with the SWP and included the rebel councillors from Tower Hamlets. The second, which named itself Respect Renewal, was led by Galloway and Yaqoob and had the support of virtually all of the party's elected representatives and national council. According to political scientist Timothy Peace, these events were \"characteristic of the faction fighting that has always plagued the radical left.\" The SWP-allied faction controlled the party's website and claimed that Galloway had simply left the party, of which they were the rightful representatives. The Respect Renewal group changed the locks of the party's national office and barred access to SWP supporters. On 17 November, both groups held conferences at which they claimed to be the legitimate manifestation of Respect. The Electoral Commission subsequently ruled that control of the party's name rested with Fire Brigades Union activist Linda Smith, the nominating officer; she had sided with Galloway, meaning that the Respect Renewal group were able to continue using the name. The SWP faction split and began using the name Left List.\n\nThis opinion was shared by Hilary Wainwright, who saw a common pattern of \"leaderism\" in this and other leftist debacles, although she thought Galloway possessed positive qualities. The SWP attributed the split to a shift to the right by Galloway and his allies, motivated by electoralism (seeking to gain Muslim votes) and attacks on the left. SWP dominated branches of Respect were reportedly less active than those with far fewer members of that group. A narrow failure of John Rees in 2006 to gain election in the Tower Hamlets local elections, while the 12 candidates from the Bangladeshi community were all elected, was also alleged to have alienated the SWP from the project.\n\nIn December 2009, the party de-registered (removed) itself from the Register of Political Parties for Northern Ireland, but remains registered for England, Scotland and Wales.\n\nRespect went into gradual decline after 2008. By this point its primary unifying issue, anger at Labour over the Iraq War, had become less salient, with the political scientist Stephen Driver suggesting that for this reason Respect \"struggled to be anything more than a one-trick pony\". The party was in disarray following the schism and only forwarded one candidate for the 2008 London Assembly elections. This candidate, Hanif Abdulmuhit, stood for the City and East constituency and secured 15% of the vote but trailed behind their Labour and Conservative Party rivals. Overall Respect attained 2.4% of the London Assembly vote, below the 5% threshold needed to secure a seat. Galloway had headed the Respect (London-wide) top-up list. Respect had not fielded a candidate for London Mayor, instead endorsing Labour's Ken Livingstone, while Left List had fielded German, who secured significantly fewer votes than she had gained as a Respect candidate for Mayor in 2004. The outbreak of the 2008 Gaza War provided renewed impetus for Respect's campaigning. Throughout much of 2009, the party devoted much of its resources to raising funds for the Viva Palestina aid convoy to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip. The first convoy, which set off from Glasgow in February 2009, was led by Respect member Kevin Ovenden.\n\nRespect Renewal stood 10 candidates in the local council elections also taking place on 1 May across England and Wales. They returned one new councillor, Nahim Khan, in Birmingham Sparkbrook, who received 42.64% of the vote. \nThe party did not field any candidates for the 2009 European Parliament elections, instead urging supporters to vote for either the Green Party or the left-wing Eurosceptic alliance, No2EU. Instead, Arthur Scargill's Socialist Labour Party proved to be the most successful radical left party in the election, securing 1.1% of the national vote.\n\nRespect fielded ten candidates in the 2010 general election, with a particular focus on three that they considered winnable. The party's manifesto highlighted that a hung parliament would be likely, and that if there were three Respect MPs in the House of Commons then they would have a chance of forming a coalition with a minority government. Their three targeted seats were Birmingham Hall Green, which was being contested by Yaqoob—who was then party leader—Poplar and Limehouse, which was contested by Galloway, and Galloway's existing seat of Bethnal Green and Bow, which was being defended by Miah. The election however proved disastrous for Respect. Labour secured all three of the seats that Respect had targeted, with Galloway and Miah being pushed into third place with 17% of the vote. Nationwide it had secured 33,251 voted, less than half of that which it had attained in the 2005 general election. Local elections were held on the same day which also resulted in significant losses for Respect; in Tower Hamlets it went from having eight councillors to one, and in Newham is lost all its councillors.\n\nHowever the party had better results elsewhere. In Birmingham Hall Green constituency Respect candidate Salma Yaqoob performed better, receiving 12,240 votes, 25.1%, placing second after Labour candidate Roger Godsiff, who received 16,039 votes, 32.9%.\n\nRespect fielded eight more candidates in other constituencies, who together polled 4,319 votes. Arshad Ali received 1,245 votes, 3.1%, in Bradford West, and Kay Phillips received 996 votes, 2.9%, in Blackley and Broughton. In total, Respect candidates received 33,269 votes, which amounted to 6.8% of the total vote in the constituencies where they stood and 0.1% of the total UK vote.\n\nDuring the 2010 General Election the Green Party stood down in favour of Respect candidates in Birmingham Sparkbrook and Manchester, Blackley and Broughton indicating the beginning of a tentative co-operation. Galloway told Decca Aitkenhead in April 2012: \"When we lost the three parliamentary seats in 2010 that we'd hoped to win, we became almost minuscule\"; Respect he said then had about 8-900 members.\n\nAbjol Miah was elected as the National Chair of Respect in January 2011. After the introduction of directly elected mayors in Tower Hamlet—something that Respect had campaigned for locally—the party backed the successful independent candidate Luftur Rahman.\n\nIn 2011, Galloway tried to become a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP). On 5 May 2011, in the Scottish Parliament general election, 2011, the Respect Party, on whose list Galloway stood in the Glasgow electoral region, received 6,972 votes (3.3%). He campaigned under the banner of Coalition Against the Cuts, but the vote was insufficient to gain a seat in the Scottish proportional voting system. In the Birmingham City Council elections of 2011, Respect lost one of its three councillors to Labour. In July, Yaqoob then resigned due to health reasons, leaving the party with only one councillor in the city.\n\nGalloway successfully contested Bradford West in a by-election held on 29 March, following the resignation of Labour MP Marsha Singh due to ill health.\n\nGalloway and his supporters, such as the Muslim Public Affairs Committee (MPACUK), were active in a campaign against Imran Hussain, the Muslim deputy leader of Bradford City Council, whose commitment to his faith was queried because he is reported to drink alcohol. Meanwhile, one of Galloway's supporting speakers at a rally on the Sunday before the byelection was Abjol Miah, once group leader of the Respect councillors in Tower Hamlets, who is also active in the IFE.\n\nGalloway was elected with a majority of 10,140 with one of the largest swings in the polls against the defending political party in modern political history.\n\nYaqoob resigned as party leader in September following Galloway's remarks about rape with respect to the Julian Assange case. She told a reporter from \"The Guardian\" that she had had to make a choice between \"standing up for the rights of women\" and her admiration for Galloway's \"anti-imperialist stance\". In October 2012, party secretary Chris Chilvers said Respect had 2,000 members, while before the by-election it had 300. Arshad Ali, who succeeded Yaqoob as leader, resigned as national chair in December 2012 after it was discovered that he has a spent conviction for electoral fraud (dating from his time in the Labour Party), although at this point the Electoral Commission still had Yaqoob listed as the party's leader.\n\nKate Hudson had originally been selected for the Manchester Central by-election, but stood down in early September following Galloway's comments on rape, and left the party in October. In the same month, Respect announced that Catherine Higgins, a local \"community advocate\", would contest the by-election on 15 November 2012. Higgins finished 9th out of 12 candidates.\n\nIn November 2012, at a rally in Rotherham, Respect announced Yvonne Ridley had been chosen to contend the Rotherham by-election. The election took place on 29 November 2012; Ridley finished fourth with 8% of the vote, ahead of both the Conservative and Liberal Democrat candidates.\n\nRespect won five seats on Bradford Council in May 2012 following Galloway's success in the by-election at the end of March. Amid a fiercely fought campaign, there were claims and complaints of violence and harassment by the Respect Party and its opponents. The party came second in Oldham's Werneth ward and Tower Hamlets' Weavers ward.\n\nAfter several months of inconclusive reports in the media, on 10 August 2013, the Bradford \"Telegraph & Argus\" reported that Galloway might not be a candidate in Bradford at the 2015 general election and instead stand in the 2016 London Mayoral election. The five Respect councillors in Bradford elected the previous year resigned from the party whip on 15 August 2013 after coming into conflict with Galloway over his comments that he might run in the London mayoral election. They argued that the MP was needed in Bradford. Two of the councillors had said the MP should resign if he intended to stand in London; Galloway and his associates had immediately suspended them, although their three fellow council members were in agreement. One of the other three councillors, Alyas Karmani, then leader of the Respect group on Bradford City Council, said the party had not, in fact, been consulted about Galloway's plans.\n\nGalloway had also claimed that the councillors were working against him and the party with Aisha Ali Khan, his former aide, and her husband. (Both Ali Khan and her husband later received criminal convictions related to her former employment by Galloway.) After no retraction of the assertions made against them had been forthcoming, the five councillors entirely severed their connections with Respect towards the end of October and then intended to sit as independents for the remainder of their term of office. Claims that they had been \"conniving\" with Galloway's former aide were false, they said. A spokesman from Respect accused them of attempting to gain control of the party in Bradford.\n\nIn the 2014 local elections, Respect stood eight candidates in Bradford, but none of them won in their council wards. Two other Respect councillors lost their seats, leaving Respect without any representation on local authorities. In 2014, the party had only 630 members and assets of £1,947. By that point, the party was largely a vehicle for Galloway's personality.\n\nThis changed in March 2015 when 4 of the former Respect councillors rejoined and a Labour member of the council, Asama Javed, left the party and aligned herself with Respect. The remaining councillor of the five who resigned in August 2013, Mohammad Shabbir, announced he was joining the Labour group on the council in mid-April 2015 with immediate effect rather than rejoining Respect with his former colleagues. In July 2015, the four councillors who had rejoined reversed their decision and decided to continue under the Bradford Independent Group label, although rejoining Respect was still a possibility.\n\nAt the 2015 general election, Respect had four candidates, in Halifax and two Birmingham seats (Hall Green and Yardley) in addition to Bradford West. Where Respect was not standing in the election, Galloway had urged a vote for Labour in 2013, having met and been impressed with then Labour leader Ed Miliband. None of the Respect candidates were elected. In George Galloway's own seat, the 10,000 majority he had gained at the 2012 Bradford West by-election was reversed, and the Labour Party candidate Naz Shah became the constituency's MP with a majority of 11,420 votes.\n\nIn December 2015, it became known that former Respect Party leader Salma Yaqoob had applied to join the Labour Party in Hall Green following Jeremy Corbyn's election as leader. Her application was rejected by her local constituency Labour Party owing to her standing against Labour candidates.\n\nRobert Colvile reported in \"The Spectator\" at the beginning of January 2016:\n\nFollowing his defeat in the 2015 general election, Galloway announced that he would stand as Respect's candidate in the 2016 London Mayoral Election. During hustings, he praised newly elected Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, but condemned Labour Mayoral candidate Sadiq Khan as a \"flip-flop merchant\" and a \"product of the Blairite machine\". In the final result of the London Mayoral election held on 5 May 2016, Galloway came seventh with 37,007 (1.4%) first preference votes. After second preference were accounted for, Sadiq Khan became London mayor. Respect failed to hold any of their seats in Bradford in the 2016 local elections, leaving them without any representation at any level of government.\n\nThe Respect Party \"voluntarily deregistered\" from the Electoral Commission's Register of Political Parties on 18 August 2016, twelve years after it initially registered.\n\nSince its formation, Respect has presented itself as being \"genuinely left\" and has sought to appeal to leftist voters dissatisfied with the Labour Party's shift to the centre under the leadership of Blair and Gordon Brown. There has however been little electoral support for parties to the left of Labour in Britain, with the party having to seek out an alternative voting base.\n\nThe primary electoral support for Respect came from the British Muslim community. Traditionally, British Muslims voted for the Labour Party, but many had been disenchanted following the Labour government's decision to invade Iraq. Respect appealed in particular to those British Muslim who had been disenchanted by the war. According to Emmanuel Karagiannis, \"now that the old working class has assimilated into an expanded middle class, the radical Left is obviously looking for a new constituency, and Europe's deprived and alienated Muslim communities may well be the answer.\" The political scientist Stephen Driver suggested that this overreliance on dissatisfied Muslim voters left its electoral base \"fragile\", for when \"the source of the protest disappears, so do the protest votes\".\n\nAt no point did Respect position itself as a specifically Muslim party akin to the Islamic Party of Britain or the Muslim Party in Birmingham, however from its beginnings it did specifically target Muslims with its campaign material, characterising itself as \"the party for Muslims\" and focusing on issues of particular concern to British Muslim communities. A local election flyer printed in 2004 featured the slogan \"George Galloway – Fighting for Muslim Rights!\" It often fielded Muslim candidates to stand in largely Muslim areas, although this was not unusual in British politics, with Labour, the Conservatives, and the Liberal Democrats often doing the same.\n\nRespect's main electoral support base was in East London and Birmingham. However, there were other areas of Britain with large Islamic communities—such as Yorkshire, Lancashire, and Leicester—where the party did not do well. Peace suggested that Respect had been successful in East London and Birmingham and not other areas with Muslim communities because these two areas had established anti-war movements and that Respect candidates had already become well known within that movement.\n\nIt has also been suggested that Respect's connection to religious groups and mosques has been crucial to the party's success in many areas. It attracted some controversy for allegedly being tied to the Islamic Forum of Europe (IFE), a group based at the East London Mosque in Tower Hamlets. Both \"The Telegraph\" and \"Dispatches\" have alleged that Respect activist Miah is an IFE member, although he has denied this.\n\nRespect received little attention from scholars of politics. This may be due to the perception that it was a single-issue party that provided a protest vote among a particular community.\nAs with the Greens, Respect were recognised as having radical views but were nonetheless widely regarded as a legitimate part of politics in the UK. In this they contrasted with the pariah status accorded to contemporary far right groups like the British National Party.\nIn just over two years, it had gained the electoral success that it had taken the BNP twenty years to attain.\n\nRespect was controversial within Britain's far left movement. Far left criticisms of the party included that it was engaging in political opportunism, that it invited the petty bourgeoisie into the socialist workers' movement, and that it focused on the narrow sectarian interests of British Muslims rather than the socio-economic issues of the working-class and in doing so neglected feminism and LGBT rights.\nAccording to \"The Guardian\" journalist Dave Hill, Respect were \"a case study in the British far left's enduring gift for self-parodic, self-destructive splits\".\n\nRespect has been accused of abandoning some traditional liberal-social issues, including women's rights, abortion, gay rights and fighting homophobia to attract Muslim support. While Respect included opposition to discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation in its founding declaration, critics claim Galloway has tended to avoid Commons votes involving equal rights for gay people – although he did vote to lower the age of consent for gay people in England and Wales to sixteen in 2000, earning him an invitation to open a new Lesbian and Gay centre in Glasgow. He praised New Labour's record on improving gay rights, and says of his absence from one vote that \"there was never any doubt about the passage of the civil partnerships [bill], I wholly support it\".\n\nAccording to a resolution at that year's conference, Respect's 2005 manifesto omitted the \"defence of LGBT rights despite policy adopted at last year's AGM and contained in the founding statement\". A resolution was passed calling for the end to all discrimination against lesbians, gay men, bisexuals and transgender people and that this policy would be stated in all of its manifestos and principal election materials. Despite this commitment, Respect and parts of the LGBT community have clashed on several occasions. In November 2005, Respect's second largest single financial donor, Dr Mohammad Naseem, was accused in an article by Peter Tatchell of being homophobic due to his senior position in the Islamic Party of Britain, which Tatchell claimed advocated the \"banning of gay organisations\" and the \"execution of homosexuals\". Naseem, however, stated that the Islamic Party was now little more than a thinktank, and furthermore, disagreed with the statements on the Islamic Party website which Tatchell pointed to, stating his views on homosexuality as follows: \"These things are a matter of personal choice [...] I am not concerned with what people do in their bedrooms.\" Naseem was also present at Respect's 2005 conference, where the vote to reaffirm Respect's support of LGBT rights was passed unanimously.\n\nIn January 2006, an article attacking Tatchell's opposition to the party was written by Respect member and journalist Adam Yosef. Writing for \"Desi Xpress\", Yosef accused Tatchell of Islamophobia but was attacked by gay organisations for \"encouraging violence against Tatchell\" and for using \"xenophobic\" and \"homophobic\" language. Yosef also used other articles to attack same-sex unions, describing them as a front for \"tax fraud\". Tatchell called on Respect to expel Yosef but the party responded with the following statement: \"Adam Yosef has the right to voice his own opinions in his own column – they range from an ecstatic review of Birmingham's gay pride to venting his thoughts about Peter Tatchell.\" However, in October 2009, Yosef pledged his formal support to Tatchell's General Election parliamentary candidacy, calling for the left to \"embrace a mutual personal and political commitment towards equality and human rights\".\n\nAbul Hussain, a former member of Respect's national council, posted antisemitic comments on Facebook and was expelled for his comments in September 2010. The councillor joked about chopping off a Jewish person's sidelocks and confiscating their kippah. He also wrote about Jews, \"Here's a penny go put it in the bank and [you] just might get a pound after ten years interest!\". The Respect Party stated that \"such views are demonstrably incompatible with party membership\".\n\nIn 2011 Carole Swords, of Bow, the chairwoman of the Respect Party in Tower Hamlets, was convicted for a public order offence after an altercation with a Jewish counter-protester, Harvey Garfield, at a protest inside a Covent Garden Tesco Metro supermarket. She was alleged to have struck him in the face, smacking off his eyeglasses, while he was protecting Israeli goods from potentially being damaged. A subsequent appeal in December cleared her of the offence. Swords' defence team claimed Garfield had harassed and intimidated Swords inside the supermarket, and alleging he had called her a “Nazi”, a” fishwife” and a “terrorist”. The recorder determined that Garfield had followed Swords inside the Tesco and that she had demanded he desist. The recorder could not determine how Garfield's glasses had fallen based on the store footage, and allowed the appeal. Swords had earlier described Zionists as \"cockroaches ... bugs [which] need to be stomped out\" and at a different rally, Swords had told a Jewish protester to \"go back to Russia\".\n\nFollowing Naz Kahn's appointment as Respect's women's officer in Bradford in October 2012, it emerged that Kahn had recently commented on Facebook that \"history teachers in our school\" were and are \"the first to start brainwashing us and our children into thinking the bad guy was Hitler. What have the Jews done good in this world??\" David Aaronovitch in \"The Jewish Chronicle\" wrote: \"'What have the Jews done good in this world?' clearly means 'The Jews do only bad'. The Jews haven’t suffered as much as they say they have, but insofar as they have suffered it's their own fault and, in any case, they have gone on to inflict equal or more suffering on others. That's 'the Jews' as a group, not 'many Jews', 'some Jews' or 'a few Jews.'\" Ron McKay, Galloway's spokesman, said Kahn's comments had been written shortly before she joined Respect, on an \"unofficial site\" (the Respect Bradford Facebook page), and that she \"now deeply regrets and repudiates that posting.\"\n\nThe last formal leader of Respect, George Galloway, has been accused by \"The Guardian\" journalist Hadley Freeman of having \"said and done things that cross the line from anti-Israel to antisemitic\". He threatened to sue her for the comments made on Twitter in February 2015, although the tweet had already been deleted. Her tweet followed the \"Question Time\" George Galloway in Finchley controversy, an edition of the BBC's political debate series on which Freeman's \"Guardian\" colleague Jonathan Freedland had also appeared and made similar assertions about Galloway's conduct.\n\nGalloway's support for Hizbollah and Hamas, his refusal to debate with Israeli Jews; his endorsement of Gilad Atzmon, and his declaration of Bradford as being an \"Israeli-free zone\" are among the issues which have led to the attitudes of the politician being thought suspect.\n\n\n\nRespect publications\n"}
{"id": "759141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759141", "title": "Reverse Course", "text": "Reverse Course\n\nReverse Course was a change in US government and Allied Occupation policy toward Japan during the post-World War II reconstruction. Beginning roughly between 1947 and 1948, it lasted until the end of the occupation in 1952.\n\nThe impetus for the Reverse Course divides between global events and developments within Japan. On the one hand, it is linked to the escalation of the Cold War, the Chinese Communist Revolution and the looming Korean War. On the other hand, due to domestic inflation, the growth of poverty, and the expansion of leftist parties, Japan seemed ripe for communism to both the Japanese government and the leaders of the occupation—especially to the leader of the occupation, Douglas MacArthur. The Reverse Course resembled Europe’s Marshall Plan.\n\nThe occupation had begun with various moves toward democratization, including land reform, the purge of officials responsible for Japan's ultra-nationalism, and the suppression of both the zaibatsu and the yakuza. This extended to Japan's new constitution, which included an article that barred the government from maintaining a standing army. This constitution and related policies had been written by Rooseveltian New-Dealers. The Reverse Course changed such policies in favor of the containment policy.\n\nAs a result of the Reverse Course, public-sector workers lost the right to strike, private-sector unions lost a great deal of bargaining power. Furthermore, severe blows were dealt to ideological freedom, to the zaibatsu-busting process, and to the suppression of the yakuza. It also allowed for the creation of the postwar Japanese armed forces, such as the establishment of the National Police Reserve (NPR) in 1950 and the Coastal Safety Force (CSF) in 1952. They later became the ground and maritime branches of the Japan Self Defense Forces (JSDF) in 1954, respectively. It put conservative politicians back in power, who went on to spearhead the development of Japan's Liberal Democratic Party. Opposition to the Reverse Course contributed to the protest against the 1960 Anpo treaty.\n\nAccording to George F. Kennan's theory, Japan would serve as an industrial engine of East Asia; by extension, a strong Japanese economy would prevent communism from spreading in Asia. A remilitarized and strengthened Japan made Japan the cornerstone of US security policy in East Asia. As the US Dept. of State official history puts it \"In this 'Reverse Course,' Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers, General Douglas MacArthur, focused on strengthening, not punishing, what would become a key cold war ally\".\n"}
{"id": "40332531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40332531", "title": "The Christians (Norway)", "text": "The Christians (Norway)\n\nThe Christians Party (, PDK) is a conservative Christian political party in Norway founded in 2011. The party leader is Erik Selle.\n\nFounded as The Christians, the party was formed when the Christian Democratic Party abolished its requirement that its representatives profess the Christian faith. The party saw this as a major step in the \"de-Christianization\" of the party, along with a perceived wider de-Christianization of Norway during the years of the Red–Green government.\n\nThe party participated in its first election for the 2011 local elections limited to the municipal council in Bømlo. They won 6.5% of the votes there, earning them two seats. Bømlo was selected to test support for the new party, with defected local Christian Democratic politicians heading their list. Some saw the party's founding meeting on Moster in Bømlo as symbolic, as it was the original starting point of the Christianization of Norway by King Olaf Tryggvason a thousand years ago.\n\nFor the 2013 parliamentary election the party gained additional support from philosopher Nina Karin Monsen, veteran Christian Democratic politician Anita Apelthun Sæle, and Visjon Norge televangelist Jan Hanvold. It received 0.6% of the national vote (17,731 votes), winning no seats but becoming second largest of the extra-parliamentary parties.\n\nBefore the 2015 local elections the Christians drew numerous local politicians from the Christian Democrats as well as the Progress Party, and the party had a large number of new local chapters established. The party managed to secure lists for the elections in 70 municipalities, as well as all the counties of Norway. Among the speakers at the party's national congress in May was the Israeli Greek Orthodox priest Gabriel Naddaf. The party won three municipal representatives in the election, one each in Bømlo, Vennesla and Karmøy.\n\nThe party considers its ideology to be built on Christian and \"Judeo-Christian\" values. It profiles itself as pro-life, promotes the traditional family and opposition to same-sex marriage, maintains strong support for Israel, and supports economic liberalism. The party claims to follow the line of former Christian Democrat leader Kåre Kristiansen. Unlike the Christian Democrats the party supports cooperation with the Progress Party, and has stated that it aims for participation in a coalition government together with the Progress and Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "10372677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10372677", "title": "The Eyes of the Heart", "text": "The Eyes of the Heart\n\nThe Eyes of the Heart: Seeking a Path for the Poor in the Age of Globalization is a book written by Jean-Bertrand Aristide about the effects of globalization on Haiti. Aristide takes the position that globalization is not a positive factor in the world, and he cites the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as contributing to the economic downfall of Haiti. This book was co-written by Laura Flynn, and published in 2000 by Common Courage Press.\n"}
{"id": "342556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342556", "title": "They Live", "text": "They Live\n\nThey Live is a 1988 American science fiction horror film written and directed by John Carpenter. The film stars Roddy Piper, Keith David, and Meg Foster. It follows an unnamed drifter (referred to as \"John Nada\" in the film's credits) who discovers that the ruling class are aliens concealing their appearance and manipulating people to spend money, breed, and accept the status quo with subliminal messages in mass media. It is based on the 1963 short story \"Eight O'Clock in the Morning\" by Ray Nelson.\n\nAt release it was number one for a short time at the box office. It was nominated for two Saturn Awards and became a cult film. It had a lasting impact on street art, particularly that of Shepard Fairey; its quotations have entered the popular culture, and its near six-minute alley brawl between the protagonists makes appearances on all-time lists for best fight scenes.\n\nDrifter \"John Nada\" finds construction work in Los Angeles and befriends fellow construction worker Frank Armitage, who leads him to a shanty town soup kitchen. A disruptive television signal and a preacher both warn of conspiracies, and Nada discovers a nearby church is a front for scientific equipment. After the church is raided and the shantytown bulldozed, Nada retrieves a box of sunglasses from the church's wall, wearing one pair and hiding the rest in an alley dumpster. The sunglasses reveal a hidden reality: media and advertising hide omnipresent subliminal stimuli to obey, consume, reproduce, and conform, while many of the elite are actually grotesque aliens.\n\nWhen Nada confronts an alien woman, she alerts others via a wristwatch communicator. Two alien police confront Nada, but he kills them and goes on a shooting spree with their guns, killing aliens in a nearby bank while one uses its wristwatch to vanish; Nada spares a human police officer. Nada escapes, taking Cable 54 assistant director Holly Thompson hostage. She rejects his claims and knocks him through the window of her luxurious hill-top home before calling the police; Nada escapes, but loses his sunglasses in the fall.\n\nNow a fugitive, Nada returns to the alley and retrieves the box of sunglasses from a garbage truck. Frank meets Nada to give him his paycheck. Frank also disbelieves Nada, but Nada forces a pair of sunglasses onto his face after an extended street fight. Accepting what he has now seen, Frank goes into hiding with Nada. They learn of a secret meeting for anti-alien activists, where they are given contact lenses to replace the sunglasses. The aliens control Earth as they have other planets in the past; they deplete each planet's resources and destroy its environment before moving on to others. If the source of the aliens' broadcast signal can be destroyed, all of humanity will see the hidden reality. Holly arrives to join the cause, apologizing to Nada. The meeting is raided by police, who kill several anti-alien activists; Nada and Frank use a stolen alien wristwatch to escape through a portal, entering the aliens' secret command center.\n\nNada and Frank discover a banquet celebration of aliens and human collaborators, one of whom gives them a tour of the facility, assuming they are also collaborators. Nada and Frank exit into the basement of Cable 54, the source of the signal. They fight their way through the building to the roof where the alien transmitter is disguised as a satellite dish. They encounter Holly, who joins them but then murders Frank; she is a collaborator. Nada kills Holly and destroys the transmitter, but is fatally wounded by aliens in a helicopter. With the signal destroyed, humans all over the world discover the aliens in their midst.\n\nThe idea for \"They Live\" came from a short story called \"Eight O'Clock in the Morning\" by Ray Nelson, originally published in \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\" in November 1963, involving an alien invasion in the tradition of \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\", which Nelson, along with artist Bill Wray, adapted into a story called \"Nada\", published in the \"Alien Encounters\" comics anthology in April 1986. John Carpenter describes Nelson's story as \"... a \"D.O.A.\"-type of story, in which a man is put in a trance by a stage hypnotist. When he awakens, he realizes that the entire human race has been hypnotized, and that alien creatures are controlling humanity. He has only until eight o'clock in the morning to solve the problem.\" Carpenter acquired the film rights to both the comic book and short story and wrote the screenplay, using Nelson's story as a basis for the film's structure.\n\nThe more political elements of the film are derived from Carpenter's growing distaste with the ever-increasing commercialization of 1980s popular culture and politics, particularly the influence of Reaganomics, the economic policies promoted by U.S. President Ronald Reagan. He remarked, \"I began watching TV again. I quickly realized that everything we see is designed to sell us something... It's all about wanting us to buy something. The only thing they want to do is take our money.\" To this end, Carpenter thought of sunglasses as being the tool to seeing the truth, which \"is seen in black and white. It's as if the aliens have colorized us. That means, of course, that Ted Turner is really a monster from outer space.\" (Turner had received some bad press in the 1980s for colorizing classic black-and-white movies.) The director commented on the alien threat in an interview: \"They want to own all our businesses. A Universal executive asked me, 'Where's the threat in that? We all sell out every day.' I ended up using that line in the film.\" The aliens were deliberately made to look like ghouls, according to Carpenter, who said, \"The creatures are corrupting us, so they, themselves, are corruptions of human beings.\"\n\nBecause the screenplay was the product of so many sources—a short story, a comic book, and input from cast and crew—Carpenter decided to use the pseudonym \"Frank Armitage\", an allusion to one of the filmmaker's favorite writers, H. P. Lovecraft (Henry Armitage is a character in Lovecraft's \"The Dunwich Horror\"). Carpenter has always felt a close kinship with Lovecraft's worldview and according to the director, \"Lovecraft wrote about the hidden world, the 'world underneath'. His stories were about gods who are repressed, who were once on Earth and are now coming back. The world underneath has a great deal to do with \"They Live\".\"\n\nFor the crucial role of Nada the filmmaker cast professional wrestler Roddy Piper, whom he met at WrestleMania III earlier in 1987. For Carpenter it was an easy choice: \"Unlike most Hollywood actors, Roddy has life written all over him.\" Carpenter was impressed with Keith David's performance in \"The Thing\" and needed someone \"who wouldn't be a traditional sidekick, but could hold his own.\" To this end, Carpenter wrote the role of Frank specifically for Keith David.\n\n\"They Live\" was shot in eight weeks during March and April 1988, principally on location in downtown L.A., with a budget only slightly greater than $3 million. One of the highlights of the film is a five-and-a-half minute alley fight between David and Piper over a pair of the special sunglasses. Carpenter recalls that the fight took three weeks to rehearse: \"It was an incredibly brutal and funny fight, along the lines of the slugfest between John Wayne and Victor McLaglen in \"The Quiet Man\".\"\n\nThe film opened on November 4, 1988, and debuted at #1 at the North American box office grossing $4.8 million during its opening weekend. The film spent two weeks in the top ten. The film had a total domestic gross of $13,008,928. Carpenter is on record as attributing the film's initial commercial failure to the hypothesis that those \"who go to the movies in vast numbers these days don't want to be enlightened\". The film's original release date, advertised in promotional material as October 21, 1988, was pushed back two weeks to avoid direct competition with \"\".\n\nStudioCanal released a Blu-ray on March 2, 2012.\n\nOn November 6, 2012, Shout! Factory released a Collector's Edition of the film on both DVD and Blu-ray.\n\nIn 2014, Universal Studios released it on DVD along with \"The Thing\", \"Village of the Damned\", and \"Virus\" as part of the \"4 Movie Midnight Marathon Pack: Aliens\".\n\nRotten Tomatoes gave the film an approval rating of 85% based on 59 reviews; the average rating is 7.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"A politically subversive blend of horror and sci fi, \"They Live\" is an underrated genre film from John Carpenter.\" Metacritic gave the film a weighted average rating of 52 out of 100, based on 10 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nIn his review for the \"Chicago Reader\", Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote, \"Carpenter's wit and storytelling craft make this fun and watchable, although the script takes a number of unfortunate shortcuts, and the possibilities inherent in the movie's central conceit are explored only cursorily.\" Jay Carr, writing for \"The Boston Globe\", said \"[O]nce Carpenter delivers his throwback-to-the-'50s visuals, complete with plump little B-movie flying saucers, and makes his point that the rich are fascist fiends, \"They Live\" starts running low on imagination and inventiveness\", but felt that \"as sci-fi horror comedy, \"They Live\", with its wake-up call to the world, is in a class with \"Terminator\" and \"RoboCop\", even though its hero doesn't sport bionic biceps\". AllMovie contributor Paul Brenner gave the film three and a half out of five stars.\n\nIn her review for \"The New York Times\", Janet Maslin wrote, \"Since Mr. Carpenter seems to be trying to make a real point here, the flatness of \"They Live\" is doubly disappointing. So is its crazy inconsistency, since the film stops trying to abide even by its own game plan after a while.\" Richard Harrington wrote in \"The Washington Post\", \"it's just John Carpenter as usual, trying to dig deep with a toy shovel. The plot for \"They Live\" is full of black holes, the acting is wretched, the effects are second-rate. In fact, the whole thing is so preposterous it makes \"V\" look like \"Masterpiece Theatre\".\" Rick Groen, in \"The Globe and Mail\", wrote, \"the movie never gets beyond the pop Orwell premise. The social commentary wipes clean with a dry towelette – it's not intrusive and not pedantic, just lighter-than-air.\"\n\nThe 2012 documentary film \"The Pervert's Guide to Ideology\" presented by Slovene philosopher and psychoanalyst Slavoj Žižek starts with an analysis of the film \"They Live\": Žižek uses the main trope of the film, the wearing of the special sun-glasses reveals the truth of that which is perceived, to explain his definition of ideology. Žižek states:\n\nCarpenter has rejected neo-Nazi claims that the film \"is an allegory for Jewish control of the world,\" instead noting the film \"is about yuppies and unrestrained capitalism\".\n\nThe film was ranked #18 on \"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine's \"The Cult 25: The Essential Left-Field Movie Hits Since '83\" list.\n\nRotten Tomatoes ranked the fight scene between Roddy Piper's character, John Nada, and Keith David's character, Frank Armitage, seventh on their list of \"The 20 Greatest Fights Scenes Ever\". The fight scene influenced \"The Wrestler\", whose director, Darren Aronofsky, interpreted the scene as a spoof. Shepard Fairey credits the film as a major source of inspiration, sharing a similar logo to his \"Andre the Giant Has a Posse\" campaign. \"\"They Live\" was…the basis for my use of the word 'obey',\" Fairey said. \"The movie has a very strong message about the power of commercialism and the way that people are manipulated by advertising.\"\n\nJonathan Lethem called \"They Live\" one of his \"favorite movies of the eighties, hands down\". He said, \"It's a great movie...Look at what it does to people, look at how it emboldens and provokes...It's disturbing and ridiculous and outrageous and uncomfortable, but I think it's the kind of great movie that doesn't really need defense, it just needs to be given the air.\" Lethem wrote a book-length homage to the movie for the Soft Skull Press \"Deep Focus\" series.\n\nRock band Green Day paid homage to \"They Live\" in their music video for \"Back in the USA\", off of their album \"\". In July 2018, it was selected to be screened in the Venice Classics section at the 75th Venice International Film Festival.\n\nIn Fall 2010, there was development on a remake of Carpenter's 1988 film \"They Live\", with him in a producer role. In 2011, Matt Reeves signed on to direct and write the screenplay. Since then, there have been no new announcements, ending up in development hell.\n\n"}
{"id": "16195149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195149", "title": "UK Border Agency", "text": "UK Border Agency\n\nThe UK Border Agency (UKBA) was the border control agency of the Government of the United Kingdom and part of the Home Office that was superseded by UK Visas and Immigration, UK Border Force and Immigration Enforcement in April 2013. It was formed as an executive agency on 1 April 2008 by a merger of the Border and Immigration Agency (BIA), UKvisas and the Detection functions of HM Revenue and Customs. The decision to create a single border control organisation was taken following a Cabinet Office report.\n\nThe agency's head office was 2 Marsham Street, London. Rob Whiteman became Chief Executive in September 2011. Over 23,000 staff worked for the agency, in over 130 countries. It was divided into four main operations, each under the management of a senior director: operations, immigration and settlement, international operations and visas and law enforcement.\n\nThe agency came under formal criticism from the Parliamentary Ombudsman for consistently poor service, a backlog of hundreds of thousands of cases, and a large and increasing number of complaints. In the first nine months of 2009–10, 97% of investigations reported by the Ombudsman resulted in a complaint against the agency being upheld. The complainants were asylum, residence, or other immigration applicants.\n\nOn 26 March 2013, following a scathing report into the agency's incompetence by the Home Affairs Select Committee, it was announced by Home Secretary Theresa May that the UK Border Agency would be abolished and its work returned to the Home Office. Its executive agency status was removed as of 31 March 2013 and the agency was split into two new organisations; UK Visas and Immigration focusing on the visa system and Immigration Enforcement, focusing on immigration law enforcement. Prior to this in April 2012, the border control division of the UKBA was separated from the rest of the agency as the Border Force.\n\nThe agency attained full agency status on 1 April 2009. Immigration Officers and Customs Officers retained their own powers for the enforcement and administration of the UK's borders, although management of the new organisation was integrated and progressively officers were cross trained and empowered to deal with customs and immigration matters at the border. The Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 received Royal Assent on 21 July 2009. This allowed the concurrent exercise of customs powers by HMRC Commissioners and the Director of Border Revenue; it was the first step in overhauling immigration and customs legislation.\nThe UK Border Agency had a staff of 23,500 people located in over 130 countries. Overseas staff vetted visa applications and operated an intelligence and liaison network, acting as the first layer of border control for the UK. The organisation operated as the single force at the border for the UK. Local immigration teams worked within the regions of the United Kingdom, liaising with the police, HMRC, local authorities and the public. In August 2009 HM Revenue and Customs transferred several thousand customs detection officers to the agency, following Parliament agreeing to give it customs control powers. The agency then began to investigate smuggling. The agency was developing a single primary border control line at the UK border combining controls of people and goods entering the country.\n\nThe agency's E-borders programme checked travellers to and from the UK in advance of travel, using data provided by passengers via their airline or ferry operators. The organisation used automatic clearance gates at main international airports.\n\nThe agency managed the UK Government's limit on non-European economic migration to the UK. It was responsible for in-country enforcement operations, investigating organised immigration crime and to detecting immigration offenders including illegal entrants and overstayers. The body was also responsible for the deportation of foreign national criminals at the end of sentences.\n\nThe UK Border Agency's budget combined with that of the Border Force was £2.17 billion in 2011-12. Under the spending review the agency was required to cut costs by up to 23%. At its peak the agency employed around 25,000 staff, but 5,000 posts were due to be cut by 2015 against the 2011-12 levels.\n\nFounding Chief Executive Lin Homer left the agency in January 2011 to become the Permanent Secretary at the Department for Transport. Deputy Chief Executive Jonathan Sedgwick was acting chief until the new CEO, Rob Whiteman, took over on 26 September 2011. Sedgwick then became director of international operations and visas. In July 2011, the strategic policy functions of the agency moved to the Home Office.\n\nHome Secretary Theresa May announced to Parliament on 26 March 2013 that the agency would be abolished due to continuing poor performance, and replaced by two new smaller organisations which would focus on the visa system and immigration law enforcement respectively. The UKBA's performance was described as \"not good enough\", partly blamed on the size of the organisation. A report by MPs also criticised the agency, and described it as \"not fit for purpose\". It was also claimed that the agency had provided inaccurate reports to the Home Affairs Select Committee over a number of years. The agency was split internally on 1 April 2013, becoming a visa and immigration service and separate immigration law enforcement service.\n\nStaff held a mixture of powers granted to them by their status as immigration officers and customs officers.\n\nImmigration officers had the power of arrest and detention conferred on them by the Immigration Act 1971, when both at ports and inland. In practice, border force officers exercised powers under Schedule 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 and inland immigration officers under S28A-H of the Immigration Act 1971 and paragraph 17 of Schedule 2. This led to separate training for border and inland officers.\n\nThis act is applicable in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. \"Designated Immigration Officers\" are port immigration officers who have been trained in detention under PACE. UK Border Agency immigration officers wear a uniform with rank insignia. Enforcement immigration officers wear body armour and carry handcuffs and ASP batons.\n\nCustoms officers had wide-ranging powers of entry, search and detention. The main power was to detain anyone who had committed, or who the officer had reasonable grounds to suspect had committed, any offence under the Customs and Excise Acts.\n\nThe UK Border Agency occasionally removed foreign national criminals at the end of their prison terms. Over 5000 foreign national prisoners were deported each year. The agency also removed failed asylum seekers and others illegally in the UK. A 2009 report by the National Audit Office cited lack of detention space to support the asylum process. The agency had over 3000 detention spaces in removal centres run by private contractors or the Prison Service.\n\nImmigration control within the United Kingdom is managed within a wider Common Travel Area (CTA). The CTA is an intergovernmental agreement that allows freedom of movement within an area that encompasses the UK, Isle of Man, Channel Islands (Guernsey, Jersey, Sark and Alderney) and the Republic of Ireland. Authorised entry to any of the above essentially allows entry to all the others but it is the responsibility of the person entering to ensure that they are properly documented for entry to other parts of the CTA. Despite the CTA it is still possible to be deported from the UK to the Republic of Ireland and vice versa.\n\nEntry to the UK via the Channel Tunnel from France or Belgium or by ferry through selected ports in north-east France is controlled by juxtaposed immigration controls in Britain, France, and Belgium, i.e. travellers clear UK passport control in France or Belgium and those travelling to France or Belgium clear French controls while in the UK. Belgium does not maintain controls in the UK as the first Schengen country entered is France. UK Border Agency checkpoints in France are operated at Gare de Calais-Fréthun, Gare de Lille Europe, Marne la vallée Chessy TGV, Gare d'Avignon centre, Channel Tunnel, Calais ferry terminal, Dunkirk ferry terminal and Gare du Nord station, Paris. A checkpoint operated at Boulogne-sur-Mer until the port closed in August 2010. United States border preclearance is an equivalent system operated by that country's equivalent to the UKBA at some airports outside the US.\n\nThere have also been difficulties with the management of student visas under Tier 4 of the Points-Based System. The assessment of the Independent Chief Inspector, carried out between July and August 2010, found that there was an inconsistent response towards applications, with some cases given extra time to prepare and others dismissed for minor reasons.\n\nIn November 2011, the Home Affairs Select Committee issued a report that found that 124,000 deportation cases had been shelved by the UKBA. The report said the cases had been dumped in a \"controlled archive\", a term used to try to hide the fact from authorities and auditors that it was a list of lost applicants.\n\nFollowing allegations that staff were told to relax some identity checks, in November 2011 the UK Home Office suspended: Brodie Clark, the Head of the Border Force; Carole Upshall, director of the Border Force South and European Operation; Graham Kyle, director of operations at Heathrow Airport. The Home Office is presently investigating allegations that Clark had agreed to \"open up the borders\" at certain times in ways ministers would \"not have agreed with\". It is alleged that between July and the end of October 2011, queues at passport control were \"managed\" so as not to annoy holiday makers. The BBC reported that staff may have been told not to scan biometric passports at certain times, which contain a digital image of the holder's face, which can be used to compare with the printed version and check the passport has not been forged. It is also believed that \"warning index checks\" at Heathrow and Calais were also suspended, which would have applied strict security checks against official watchlists of terrorists, criminals, and deported illegal immigrants.\n\nAfter Clark refused the offer to take early retirement, he was suspended and the investigation began. A two-week inquiry led by former Metropolitan Police detective Dave Wood, currently head of the agency's enforcement and crime group, sought to discover to what extent checks were scaled down, and what the security implications might have been. A second investigation, led by former MI6 official Mike Anderson, the Director General of the Home Office's strategy, immigration and international group, sought to investigate wider issues relating to the performance of UKBA regarding racism.\n\nIt was then announced on 5 November by Theresa May that an independent inquiry would also be undertaken, led by the Chief Inspector of the UK Border Agency, John Vine. The Border Force became a separate organisation on 1 March 2012.\n\nIn October 2014, the trial of the Reverend Nathan Ntege - accused of conducting almost 500 sham marriages at a church in Thornton Heath, South London between 2007 and 2011 - collapsed after it became apparent that evidence had been tampered with, concealed, or even possibly destroyed. As immigration officers were questioned in the witness box of the Inner London Crown Court it became clear that not only had video footage gone missing but that an investigation log had been tampered with. The trial was halted by Judge Nic Madge, who said in court: \"I am satisfied that officers at the heart of this prosecution have deliberately concealed important evidence and lied on oath”. The Judge added: “The bad faith and misconduct started in 2011, when two of the principal defendants were arrested, and has continued throughout the course of this trial. In my judgment, it has tainted the whole case. It has tainted the prosecution against all seven defendants. It is a case in which the prosecution should not be allowed to benefit from the serious misbehaviour of the officer in the case or the disclosure officer”. The Reverend Ntege and six other defendants were formally acquitted of all 17 charges, which related to marriages of convenience in order to bypass immigration laws. UK TV station Channel 4 News later reported that three immigration officers had been suspended and that the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) would be conducting an investigation. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said that it accepted that the handling of the case had fallen below acceptable standards and that it would conduct a full review.\n\n\nThis link takes you to Visa & Immigration Service\n"}
{"id": "27627948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27627948", "title": "Union for the Liberation of Ukraine", "text": "Union for the Liberation of Ukraine\n\nThe Union for the Liberation of Ukraine (, СВУ; Soyuz vyzvolennia Ukrayiny, SVU) was a political organization that was established on 4 August 1914 in Lemberg, Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. The organization was established by Ukrainian emigrants from the Russia-held Dnieper Ukraine and who were socialist by their political views representing such political parties like Revolutionary Ukrainian Party (RUP), Ukrainian Social Democratic Workers Party (USDRP), \"Spilka\" Socialist-Democratic (\"Fellowship\"). The organization was headed by its presidium that consisted of Andriy Zhuk, Volodymyr Doroshenko, Oleksandr Skoropys-Yoltukhovskyi, and Markian Melenevskyi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5749445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5749445", "title": "World Disarmament Conference", "text": "World Disarmament Conference\n\nThe Conference for the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments of 1932–1934 (sometimes World Disarmament Conference or Geneva Disarmament Conference) was a failed effort by member states of the League of Nations, together with the United States, to actualize the ideology of disarmament. It took place in the Swiss city of Geneva, 1932 to 1934.\n\nThe first effort at international arms limitation was made at the Hague Conferences of 1901 and 1907, which had failed in their primary objective. Although many contemporary commentators (and Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles) had blamed the outbreak of the First World War on the war guilt of Germany, historians writing in the 1930s began to emphasize the quick arms race preceding 1914. Further, all the major powers except the US had committed themselves to disarmament in both the Treaty of Versailles and the Covenant of the League of Nations. A substantial international non-governmental campaign to promote disarmament also developed in the 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nA preparatory commission was initiated by the League in 1925; by 1931, there was sufficient support to hold a conference, which duly began under the chairmanship of former British Foreign Secretary Arthur Henderson. The motivation behind the talks can be summed up by an extract from the message President Franklin D. Roosevelt sent to the conference: \"If all nations will agree wholly to eliminate from possession and use the weapons which make possible a successful attack, defences automatically will become impregnable and the frontiers and independence of every nation will become secure.\"\n\nThe talks were beset by a number of difficulties from the outset. Germany immediately demanded to be allowed 'military equality' or it would leave. The French, for their part, were equally insistent that German military inferiority was their only insurance from future conflict as serious as they had endured in the First World War. Britain and the U.S. were unprepared to offer the additional security commitments that France requested in exchange for limitation of French armaments. After 10 months of negotiations, France, Britain and Italy announced, Germany and the other States disarmed by the Versailles Treaty should be insured equality in a system which gives security to all nations.\" The parties could not agree on what constituted \"offensive\" and \"defensive\" weapons. \n\nThe talks broke down and Hitler withdrew Germany from both the Conference and the League of Nations in October 1933. The 1930s had proved far too self-interested an international period to accommodate multilateral action in favour of pacifism.\n\n"}
