{"id": "5971097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971097", "title": "501(c)(3) organization", "text": "501(c)(3) organization\n\nA 501(c)(3) organization is a corporation, trust, unincorporated association, or other type of organization exempt from federal income tax under section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the United States Code. It is one of the 29 types of 501(c) nonprofit organizations in the US. \n\n501(c)(3) tax-exemptions apply to entities that are organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, for testing for public safety, to foster national or international amateur sports competition, for the prevention of cruelty to children, women, or animals. 501(c)(3) exemption applies also for any non-incorporated community chest, fund, cooperating association or foundation organized and operated exclusively for those purposes. There are also supporting organizations—often referred to in shorthand form as \"Friends of\" organizations.\n\nDue to the tax deductions associated with donations, loss of 501(c)(3) status can be highly challenging if not fatal to a charity's continued operation, as many foundations and corporate matching programs do not grant funds to a charity without such status, and individual donors often do not donate to such a charity due to the unavailability of the deduction.\n\nThe two exempt classifications of 501(c)(3) organizations are as follows:\n\nThe basic requirement of obtaining tax-exempt status is that the organization is specifically limited in powers to purposes that the IRS classifies as tax-exempt purposes. Unlike for-profit corporations that benefit from broad and general purposes, non-profit organizations need to be limited in powers to function with tax-exempt status, but a non-profit corporation is by default not limited in powers until it specifically limits itself in the articles of incorporation or nonprofit corporate bylaws. This limiting of the powers is crucial to obtaining tax exempt status with the IRS and then on the state level. Organizations acquire 501(c)(3) tax exemption by filing IRS Form 1023. the form must be accompanied by a $850 filing fee if the yearly gross receipts for the organization are expected to average $10,000 or more. If yearly gross receipts are expected to average less than $10,000, the filing fee is reduced to $400. There are some classes of organizations that automatically are treated as tax exempt under 501(c)(3), without the need to file Form 1023:\n\nThe IRS released a software tool called Cyber Assistant in 2013, which was succeeded by Form 1023-EZ in 2014.\n\nThere is an alternative way for an organization to obtain status if an organization has applied for a determination and either there is an actual controversy regarding a determination or the Internal Revenue Service has failed to make a determination. In these cases, the United States Tax Court, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, and the United States Court of Federal Claims have concurrent jurisdiction to issue a declaratory judgment of the organization's qualification if the organization has exhausted administrative remedies with the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nPrior to October 9, 1969, nonprofit organizations could declare themselves to be tax-exempt under Section 501(c)(3) without first obtaining Internal Revenue Service recognition by filing Form 1023 and receiving a determination letter. A nonprofit organization that did so prior to that date could still be subject to challenge of its status by the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nAn approved 501(c)(3) exemption allows donors to the organization to reduce their own taxable incomes by deducting the amounts of their donations given, and thus to reduce their personal income taxes, and it allows the 501(c)(3) organization to avoid federal income taxes on the difference between revenues (donations, grants, service fees) received vs. expenses (wages, supplies, state and local taxes paid, etc.) in its main operations. In a for-profit business, that difference would represent taxable income and be taxed at federal corporate tax rates of 15 to 39 percent. Organizations with 501(c)(3) status may also be exempt from state and local corporate income taxes, which generally range from 0 to 12 percent.\n\nTesting for public safety is described under section 509(a)(4) of the code, which makes the organization a public charity and not a private foundation, but contributions to 509(a)(4) organizations are not deductible by the donor for federal income, estate, or gift tax purposes. \n\nBefore donating to a 501(c)(3) organization, a donor may wish to consult the searchable online IRS list of charitable organizations as well as lists that may be maintained by a state on a portion of its web portal devoted to its \"department of justice\" or \"office of attorney general\".\n\nConsumers may file IRS Form 13909 with documentation to complain about inappropriate or fraudulent (i.e., fundraising, political campaigning, lobbying) activities by any 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. Think tanks are often incorporated as 501(c)(3) organizations, and such a level of political influencing is usually considered acceptable.\n\n501(c)(3) generally must disclose the identities of large donors to the IRS, but this information is not available for public disclosure unless the organization is a private foundation. Religious organizations such as churches are exempt from reporting at all, as are organizations with annual gross receipts of $50,000 or less.\n\nAll 501(c)(3) organizations must make available for public inspection its application for tax-exemption, including its Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ and any attachments, supporting documents, and follow-up correspondence with the Internal Revenue Service. The same public inspection requirement applies to the organization's annual return, namely its Form 990, Form 990-EZ, Form 990-PF, Form 990-T, and Form 1065, including any attachments, supporting documents, and follow-up correspondence with the Internal Revenue Service, with the exception of the names and addresses of donors on Schedule B. Annual returns must be made publicly available for a three-year period beginning with the due date of the return including any extension of time for filing. \n\nThe Internal Revenue Service provides information about specific 501(c)(3) organizations through its Tax Exempt Organization Search online.\n\nA private nonprofit organization, GuideStar, provides information on 501(c)(3) organizations. \n\nProPublica's Nonprofit Explorer provides copies of each organization's Form 990 and, for some organizations, audited financial statements. \n\nOpen990 is a searchable database of information about organizations over time.\n\nSection 501(c)(3) organizations are prohibited from supporting political candidates, as a result of the Johnson Amendment enacted in 1954. Section 501(c)(3) organizations are subject to limits on lobbying, having a choice between two sets of rules establishing an upper bound for their lobbying activities. Section 501(c)(3) organizations risk loss of their tax-exempt status if these rules are violated. An organization that loses its 501(c)(3) status due to being engaged in political activities cannot subsequently qualify for 501(c)(4) status. \n\nChurches must meet specific requirements in order to obtain and maintain tax-exempt status; these are outlined in \"IRS Publication 1828: Tax Guide for Churches and Religious Organizations\". This guide outlines activities allowed and not allowed by churches under the 501(c)(3) designation.\n\nIn 1980, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia recognized a 14-part test in determining whether a religious organization is considered a church for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nHaving an established congregation served by an organized ministry is of central importance. Points 4, 6, 8, 11, 12, and 13 are also especially important. Nevertheless, the 14-point list is a guideline, it is not intended to be all-encompassing, and other relevant facts and circumstances may be factors. Although there is no definitive definition of a church for Internal Revenue Code purposes, in 1986 the United States Tax Court said that \"A church is a coherent group of individuals and families that join together to accomplish the religious purposes of mutually held beliefs. In other words, a church's principal means of accomplishing its religious purposes must be to assemble regularly a group of individuals related by common worship and faith.\" The United States Tax Court has stated that, while a church can certainly broadcast its religious services by radio, radio broadcasts themselves do not constitute a congregation unless there is a group of people physically attending those religious services. A church can conduct worship services in various specific locations rather than in one official location. A church may have a significant number of people associate themselves with the church on a regular basis, even if the church does not have a traditional established list of individual members.\n\nIn order to qualify as a tax-exempt church, church activities must be a significant part of the organization's operations.\n\nAn organization whose operations include a substantial nonexempt commercial purposes, such as operating restaurants and grocery stores in a manner consistent with a particular religion's religious beliefs does not qualify as a tax-exempt church.\n\nOrganizations described in section 501(c)(3) are prohibited from conducting political campaign activities to intervene in elections to public office. The Internal Revenue Service website elaborates on this prohibition:\n\nSince section 501(c)(3)'s political-activity prohibition was enacted, \"commentators and litigants have challenged the provision on numerous constitutional grounds,\" such as freedom of speech, vagueness, and equal protection and selective prosecution. Historically, Supreme Court decisions, such as \"Regan v. Taxation with Representation of Washington\", suggested that the Court, if it were to squarely examine the political-activity prohibition of § 501(c)(3), would uphold it against a constitutional challenge. However, some have suggested that a successful challenge to the political activities prohibition of Section 501(c)(3) might be more plausible in light of \"Citizens United v. FEC\".\n\nIn contrast to the prohibition on political campaign interventions by all section 501(c)(3) organizations, public charities (but not private foundations) may conduct a limited amount of lobbying to influence legislation. Although the law states that \"No substantial part...\" of a public charity's activities can go to lobbying, charities with large budgets may lawfully expend a million dollars (under the \"expenditure\" test), or more (under the \"substantial part\" test) per year on lobbying.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service has never defined the term \"substantial part\" with respect to lobbying.\n\nIn order to establish a safe harbor for the \"substantial part\" test, the United States Congress enacted §501(h), called the Conable election after its author, Representative Barber Conable. The section establishes limits based on operating budget that a charity can use to determine if it meets the substantial test. This changes the prohibition against direct intervention in partisan contests only for lobbying. The organization is now presumed in compliance with the substantiality test if they work within the limits. The Conable election requires a charity to file a declaration with the IRS and file a functional distribution of funds spreadsheet with their Form 990. IRS form 5768 is required to make the Conable election.\n\nA 501(c)(3) organization is allowed to conduct some or all of its charitable activities outside the United States. A 501(c)(3) organization is allowed to award grants to foreign charitable organizations if the grants are intended for charitable purposes and the grant funds are subject to the 501(c)(3) organization's control. Additional procedures are required of 501(c)(3) organizations that are private foundations.\n\nDonors' contributions to a 501(c)(3) organization are tax-deductible only if the contribution is for the use of the 501(c)(3) organization, and that the 501(c)(3) organization is not merely serving as an agent or conduit of a foreign charitable organization. The 501(c)(3) organization's management should review the grant application from the foreign organization, decide whether to award the grant based on the intended use of the funds, and require continuous oversight based on the use of funds.\n\nIf the donor imposes a restriction or earmark that the contribution must be used for foreign activities, then the contribution is deemed to be for the foreign organization rather than the 501(c)(3) organization, and the contribution is not tax-deductible.\n\nThe purpose of the grant to the foreign organization cannot include endorsing or opposing political candidates for elected office in any country. \n\nIf a 501(c)(3) organization sets up and controls a foreign subsidiary in order to facilitate its charitable work in a foreign country, then donors' contributions to the 501(c)(3) organization are tax-deductible even if they are intended to fund the charitable activities in the foreign country. \n\nIf a foreign organization sets up a 501(c)(3) organization for the sole purpose of raising funds for the foreign organization, and the 501(c)(3) organization sends substantially all contributions to the foreign organization, then donors' contributions to the 501(c)(3) organization are not tax-deductible to the donors.\n\n"}
{"id": "43051025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051025", "title": "Al-Risalah al-Huquq", "text": "Al-Risalah al-Huquq\n\nThe Risalat al-Huquq (, ; \"Treatise of Rights\") is a work attributed to Ali ibn al-Husayn the fourth Imam of the Shia except for his relatively short sayings and letters. \"Risalah al-Huquq \" is narrated in Al-Khisal, Al-Amali, and Man la yahduruhu al-Faqih all by Shaykh al-Suduq and in Tuhaf al-Oqul by Hussayn ibn Shu'bah Harrani. This charter is narrated by Abu Hamza al-Thumali, a reliable and admired companion of Ali ibn al-Husayn for the first time. \"Risalah al-Huquq \" is prefaced in of the two versions by: \"This is the treatise of Ali ibn al-Husayn to one of his companions\", which shows to be written at the request of a pupil of him.\nBased on On 'Treatise of rights' that the word 'rights' is much better translated as duties, obligations or responsibilities.\n\nRisalah al-Huquq attributed to Imam Sajjad is mentioned in the following sources:\nThe author of Tuhaf al-Oqul mentioned it without a reference, while al-Suduq writes in his al-Khisal as such:\n\nThis hadith is Mursal in Man La Yahdhuruhu Al-Faqih:\n\nThe Risalatul Huquq begins with \"The greatest right of God...\" in Man La Yahdhuruhu Al-Faqih and it does not include the introduction section in which the rights are explained in brief. The mentioned introduction exists in Tuhaf al-Oqul. Number of the rights which are discussed in both introduction section, and the detailed section (rest of the hadith which describes the rights in detail) of the hadith are 50 in Tuhaf al-Oqul while the author al-Khisal and Man La Yahdhuruhu Al-Faqih mentions 51 rights in the detailed section and an additional right called \"right of Hajj\" is noticeable. But there's no mention of \"right of Hajj\" in the introduction of the hadith in al-Khisal.\n\n\"Huquq\" () is plural of \"Haq\" () and is best translated as \"rights\". However, other words such as justice, truth, obligations, duties, responsibilities have meanings closely related to \"Haq\". Based on On 'Treatise of rights' the word 'rights' is much better translated as duties, obligations or responsibilities.\n\n\"Risalah al-Huquq\" consists of two Introduction and detailed sections although these titles are not mentioned in the hadith.\n\nThe introduction section describes the rights briefly and begins with the following paragraph:\n\nMore in this section Imam Sajjad names the rights and briefly explains them.\n\nThe Greatest Right of God\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Treatise of Life\" is a documentary investigating the life style from the perspective of \"Risalatul Huquq\". It was made by Amir Farrokh Saber, an Iranian director, and was broadcast from IRIB, news channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31708998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31708998", "title": "American rule (property)", "text": "American rule (property)\n\nIn property law, the American rule of possession states that a landlord is obligated only to deliver legal possession, but not actual possession, of a leased premises to a tenant. Thus, if a tenant arrives at a leased premises only to discover that it is still inhabited by a previous tenant who is holding over, or by squatters, it is the tenant who has standing to sue for eviction and/or damages, and not the landlord. The tenant may not cancel the lease or refuse to pay rent due to the landlord for the time that the tenant is out of actual possession of the lease. The American rule survives in only a minority of jurisdictions.\n\nBy contrast, the English rule states that in such a scenario, the tenant may cancel the lease, obligating the landlord to deliver not only legal possession but also actual possession, and giving the landlord standing to sue the party in wrongful possession of the premises.\n\nThe nomenclature of the American rule runs contrary to the general tendency in property law, where American law evolved out of and in many instances diverged from English property law: the American rule is the original default rule, and the English rule, having been passed subsequently in England, began to be adopted by an increasing number of American jurisdictions following the ruling in \"Hannan v. Dusch\", 153 S.E. 824 (1930).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2894327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2894327", "title": "Amherst's Decree", "text": "Amherst's Decree\n\nAmherst's Decree was a general order given by General Jeffery Amherst, commander of British forces in North America, in February 1761. The order halted the longtime tradition of presenting visiting Native American chieftains with gifts, especially gunpowder and lead shot. While gift giving was generally acknowledged as a diplomatic gesture of goodwill, Amherst viewed it as \"excessive coddling\" which was financially costly to the British government. The decree initiated a period of increasing distrust between British and Native American tribes and is considered by historians as one of the factors leading to Pontiac's Rebellion.\n\nAmherst justified ending the tradition of giving goods and supplies to Indians in terms of defending His Majesty's interests. Indians would have to spend more time on supplying themselves, thus less time could be spent dissenting from British authority. By strictly limiting Native American's access to ammunition, Amherst was protecting the British Army from Indian attack.\n\nThe decree denied Native groups access to alcohol and limited the amount of gunpowder they could legally obtain. Amherst prohibited British traders from traveling to Native villages and prohibited them from charging excessive prices. Yet, this forced American Indians further out of their local communities due to the need to travel to British forts in order to conduct business necessary for their survival. Due to the lack of transport accessible to Indians, only the fortunate had the horses necessary to transport goods to the British forts. The size of the horses limited the amount of goods Indians could carry to trade and the traders were further compounded by the restrictions on goods they could receive from the British traders.\n\nIndian diplomacy prior to 1761 consisted of peace ceremonies were central to the foundation and consolidation of alliances were the values of reciprocity and generosity. In the second half of the seventeenth century, an Anglo-Indian alliance between British settlers and the Iroquois tribe was consolidated in the Covenant Chain where every word of a proposition was validated by the offering of a gift, during this period it was often wampum deemed highly sacred. This tradition upheld by the Indians' recently defeated allies, the French. Yet Amherst declared, \"It is not by intention… ever to attempt to gain the friendship of Indians by presents.\" Amherst had removed the grounds that Anglo- Indian forces had established peace.\n\nAmherst's policy of restricting the trading of ammunition to Indians made it increasingly difficult for Indians to obtain deerskins that were central to their trade, and thus their economy and livelihood. Tribesmen were forced to revert to bow and arrows, in which their skill of precision had been lost by many years of adaptation to European alternatives, particularly gunpowder. Famine spread, intensified by crop failures and smallpox epidemics throughout he pays d'en haut and the Ohio Country in 1762. Some survivors travelled to English forts in hope of food, some having already resorted to eating their children. Sir William Johnson, Northern Indian superintendent, complained that at Montreal tribes had received less winter gifts than the amount the French gave four families.\n\nWith tribesmen unable to provide for their families and the removal of alcohol that was so central to Indian social life, Amherst's policies managed to inadvertently create a band of sober enemies, united with a common grievance.\n\nOne of Amherst's most outspoken critics to his policies came from his contemporary, Sir William Johnson. Named Warraghiyagey (translated as \"A Man who undertakes great Things\") by the Mohawk tribe in 1742 and later esteemed with the title \"sachem,\" Johnson was both respected and experienced in Indian diplomacy. Having been appointed Commissary of Indian Affairs in 1746 after being noted for his close ties with the Six Nations, his success led him to being appointed as Superintendent of Indian Affairs in 1755. The Albany Congress in 1754 proved that Johnson was indispensable when dealing with Indian affairs.\n\nSir William Johnson's success was founded in his adoption and respect for Indian treaty traditions. In a conference in Albany in 1746, Johnson even wore the same apparel and paint as an Indian War-Captain. As the principal negotiator in Indian treaties and publicly esteemed as the leading individual in Indian relations, he vehemently warned Amherst of the dangers of removing the process of gift giving from negotiations. Johnson predicted that an Indian war would be inevitable; in 1763, Indian's in the Great Lakes Region were driven by their discontent with Amherst's post-war Indian policies to take part in Pontiac's Rebellion.\n\nFred Anderson argues that Amherst's principle aim behind the decree was to impose order on North America, thus a rational objective for any professional soldier rather than it being a capricious act of cruelty.\n\nSimilarly, Mark Danley identifies Amherst's lack of understanding of the culture and customs of Native Americans was a central cause of his order. However Danley also criticizes Amherst's arrogance in dismissing the warnings of his colleagues, who, experienced in the practices of Native diplomacy, warned that the decree would inevitably lead to war.\n\nLikewise, Francis Jennings identifies Amherst's decree as signaling the inverse relationship between his increasing glory from successes in the Seven Years' War with a decline in his use of logic and cautiousness. While trying to save money by forbidding the practice of giving peace offerings, Amherst aimed to make Indians subsist primarily on hunting, an illogical aim given the control he simultaneously placed on ammunition.\n\nElizabeth Dubrulle argues that rather than a mere oversight of the complexities of Indian relationships and traditions, Amherst was uninterested in who the Native Americans were; he was only interested in who they could become. To Dubrulle, Amherst's decree aimed at transforming American Indians into clones of the hardworking British public.\n\n"}
{"id": "5815406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5815406", "title": "Articles for the Government of the United States Navy", "text": "Articles for the Government of the United States Navy\n\nThe Articles for the Government of the United States Navy were the military laws of the United States Navy for much of its early history. The Articles were often referred to informally as \"Rocks and Shoals\", after the language of Article 4, Section 10:\n\nThe Articles were replaced by the Uniform Code of Military Justice in 1951.\n\nRocks and Shoals plays a major part in the first quarter of the Tom Clancy novel \"Clear and Present Danger\", when the captain of a U.S. Coast Guard cutter decides to try a pair of pirates under its rules for rape and murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "4873637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4873637", "title": "Artists Rights Society", "text": "Artists Rights Society\n\nArtists Rights Society (ARS) is a copyright, licensing, and monitoring organization for visual artists in the United States. Founded in 1987, ARS is a member of the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers and as such represents in the United States the intellectual property rights interests of over 60,000 visual artists and estates of visual artists from around the world (painters, sculptors, photographers, architects and others).\n\nThe long list of the artists represented by ARS includes such names as Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Georges Braque, Joseph Beuys, Pierre Bonnard, Constantin Brâncuși, Marc Chagall, Henry Darger, Jean Dubuffet, Marcel Duchamp, Max Ernst, Alberto Giacometti, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Le Corbusier, Fernand Léger, René Magritte, Joan Miró, Edvard Munch, Man Ray, Andy Warhol, Salvador Dalí, Mark Rothko, Jackson Pollock, Georgia O'Keeffe, Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, among many others. In addition to estates, ARS represents many living artists, including Damien Hirst, Judy Chicago, Jenny Holzer, Robert Morris, Richard Serra, Hans Haacke, Jim Dine, Robert Indiana, Robert Irwin, Brice Marden, Dorothea Rockburne, Mark Tobey, and Bruce Nauman, among others.\n\nIn 2002 and 2006, ARS asked Google to remove customised versions of its logo put up to commemorate artists Salvador Dalí and Joan Miró, alleging that portions of specific artworks under their protection had been used in the logos, and that they were utilized without permission. According to Theodore Feder, president of ARS, \"there are underlying copyrights to the works of Miró, and they are putting it up without having the rights.\" Google complied with the request, but denied that there was any violation of copyright. \n\nSince 2008, ARS and Google have worked together to produce customized versions of Google's logo to commemorate ARS member artists, Marc Chagall (2008), René Magritte (2008) and Jackson Pollock (2009). \n\nIn June 2008, ARS president Theodore Feder, with artist Frank Stella, wrote an Op-Ed for \"The Art Newspaper\" decrying a proposed U.S. orphan works law. \n\nIn July 2008, ARS worked with the Illustrator's Partnership of America (IPA) and the Advertising Photographers of America (APA) to submit to congress a document titled, \"Suggested Amendments to H.R. 5889: Orphan Works Act of 2008.\" The document outlined 12 amendments which the ARS, IPA and APA believe will decrease the potential negative impact of the Orphan Works Act and discourage \"wide-scale infringements of visual art while depriving creators of protections currently available under the Copyright Act.\" ARS has joined over 60 other art licensing businesses (including the Association of American Editorial Cartoonists, Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators and the Stock Artists Alliance, among others) in opposing both The Orphan Works Act of 2008 and The Shawn Bentley Orphan Works Act of 2008.\n"}
{"id": "220057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220057", "title": "Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale", "text": "Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale\n\nThe Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale (ALAI) was founded in 1878 in Paris. Victor Hugo was the honorary president and founder of the association. The group gave itself the objective of creating an international convention for the protection of writers' and artists' rights, which was achieved eight years later with the Berne Convention on September 9, 1886. It continues to exist today and it is considered one of the premiere international organizations that continues to suggest law reform in connection with the movement for international copyright law.\n\nV. On the history of ALAI and its role in the advent of international and national copyright including its role in Egypt : Yasser Omar Amine, \"La mémoire oubliée de l’histoire du droit d’auteur égyptien : Les juristes M. Linant de Bellefonds, M. Pupikofer et E. Piola Caselli\" (\"The Forgotten Memory of the History of the Egyptian Copyright Law : the jurist M. Linant de Bellefonds, M. Pupikofer and E. Piola Caselli\"), éd. Dar El Nahda El Arabia, Le Caire, 2014-2015, 602 p. (en Arabe et une partie en Français).\n\n"}
{"id": "37960049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37960049", "title": "California Court Case Management System", "text": "California Court Case Management System\n\nThe California Court Case Management System (CCMS) is the court case management system intended for use by the several courts of the judiciary of California, which includes the Supreme Court, 6 Courts of Appeal, and 58 Superior Courts.\n\nPursuant to California Rule of Court 2.506 and Government Code Section 68150(h), courts may impose fees for the costs of providing access to its electronic records.\n\nSeveral superior courts do so, including Alameda, Los Angeles, Riverside, Sacramento, and San Diego, and the fees have been criticized by Thomas Peele as exorbitant and extraordinarily high, with the Alameda County Superior Court fees being the subject of a MoveOn.org petition.\n\nFive Superior Courts—in Orange, Sacramento, San Diego, San Joaquin, and Ventura Counties—use CCMS version 3 to process civil cases. This represents approximately 25 percent of the civil case volume in California. Fresno is the only Superior Court still using version 2 of CCMS. In August 2013, the Judicial Council approved funding for a system that will replace CCMS version 2 in Fresno.\n\nIn 2002, the California Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) started the Second-Generation Electronic Filing Specification (2GEFS) project.\n\nAfter a $200,000 consultant's report declared the project ready for a final push, the Judicial Council of California scrapped the program in 2012 after $500 million in costs.\n\nThe 2GEFS Court Filing 2.0 specification was based on experiences with the Legal XML Court Filing 1.0 (before it became OASIS Legal XML).\n\nOn it was announced that the San Luis Obispo County Superior Court would use the Odyssey® court case management system from Tyler Technologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33797719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33797719", "title": "Caput lupinum", "text": "Caput lupinum\n\nCaput lupinum or caput gerat lupinum is a term used in the English legal system and its derivatives. The Latin term literally means \"wolf's head\" or \"wolfish head\", and refers to a person considered to be an outlaw, as in, \"e.g.\", the phrase \"caput gerat lupinum\" (\"may he wear a wolfish head\" / \"may his be a wolf's head\"). Black's Law Dictionary, 8th edition (2004: 225) reads \"an outlawed felon considered a pariah – a lone wolf – open to attack by anyone.\" A person designated a \"caput lupinum\" was a criminal whose rights had been waived. As such, he or she could be legally harmed by any citizen.\n"}
{"id": "3183084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183084", "title": "Consularization", "text": "Consularization\n\nIn international law, consularization is the act of authenticating any legal document by the consul office, by the consul signing and affixing a red ribbon to the document. International trade shipments often require consular invoices and other documents that may need to be consularized include travel documents (such as a parental consent letter for persons under 18 traveling without a parent), letters of credit, and powers of attorney.\n\nA consular invoice is a document, often in triplicate, submitted to the consul or embassy of a country to which goods are to be exported before the goods are sent abroad. The completed documents then travel with the goods and enable the customs officials in the destination country to verify the quantity, value and nature of the goods on arrival. A fee may be charged by the consulate for the checking and approval of the documents.\n\nAt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade round in 1952, it was proposed that consularization of commercial invoices be abolished. In 2005, the United States and Uganda submitted a proposal to the World Trade Organization to abolish consularization.\n\nAlternative terms include \"konsularfaktura\" (German), \"facture consulaire\" (French), \"factura consular\" (Spanish), \"fattura consolare\" (Italian) and \"fatura consular\" (Portuguese Br.).\n"}
{"id": "6888156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6888156", "title": "Contribution claim (legal)", "text": "Contribution claim (legal)\n\nA contribution claim is a claim brought by one or more defendants to a lawsuit for money damages brought by a plaintiff. A contribution claim asserts the party (usually a defendant) is entitled to \"contribution\" from a third party for any money damages awarded to the plaintiff.\n\nFor example, if a plaintiff sues a homeowner for damages caused by a garage door, the defendant homeowner could add a third party, the manufacturer of the garage door to contribute to any damages awarded to the plaintiff according to the proportionate share of responsibility, liability, or fault assigned to the homeowner and the manufacturer by the jury.\n\nIn most cases, contribution claims are brought like the original lawsuit itself. The claim must be personally served on the new, third party defendant, by the third party plaintiff (the defendant bringing the claim for contribution relief). In contrast, a counter-claim asserts that the party (usually a defendant) is entitled to offset the damages awarded to plaintiff by the proportionate share of any responsibility, liability, or fault assigned to the plaintiff by the jury. Finally, a cross-claim is the same as a counter-claim or contribution claim, except that it is asserted by a defendant against other defendants. Counter-claims and cross claims do not require personal service because no new parties are being added to the lawsuit.\n\nIn some state court systems, a contribution claim must be opened as a new case, and thus the defendant must pay for a filing fee, docket number, or index number. In other states, however, no additional fee is required.\n\n"}
{"id": "9962889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9962889", "title": "Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975", "text": "Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975\n\nThe Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975 was passed by the District of Columbia city council on September 24, 1976. The law banned residents from owning handguns, automatic firearms, or high-capacity semi-automatic firearms, as well as prohibited possession of unregistered firearms. Exceptions to the ban were allowed for police officers and guns registered before 1976. The law also required firearms kept in the home to be \"unloaded, disassembled, or bound by a trigger lock or similar device\"; this was deemed to be a prohibition on the use of firearms for self-defense in the home. On June 26, 2008, in the historic case of \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", the Supreme Court of the United States determined that the ban and trigger lock provisions violate the Second Amendment.\n\nWashington, D.C.'s gun laws are considered by many to be the strictest in the United States, and have been challenged as infringing on constitutional rights protected by the United States Constitution's Second Amendment. On March 9, 2007, portions of the law were declared unconstitutional by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals, in a 2-1 ruling in the case District of Columbia v. Heller. After the District's application for a rehearing en banc was denied, it appealed the decision to the Supreme Court of the United States. On June 26, 2008, the Court determined that the ban and trigger lock provision violate the Second Amendment. However, the ruling does not prohibit all forms of gun control; laws requiring firearm registration remain in place as does the city's assault weapon ban.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42294930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42294930", "title": "General Elections Commission", "text": "General Elections Commission\n\nThe General Elections Commission (, abbreviated as KPU) is the body that organises elections in Indonesia. Its responsibilities include deciding which parties can contest elections, organising the voting and announcing the results and seats won in the various branches of the government.\n\nFollowing the fall of President Suharto and the end of Indonesia's authoritarian New Order, as a result of public pressure, President Habibie brought forward the general elections planned for 2002 to 1999. On 1 February the People's Representative Council passed Law No.3/1999 on the General Election, which mandated the establishment of a \"free and independent General Elections Commission comprising members of political parties and the government\" to oversee the elections. The commission was then established with 53 members and former home affairs minister Rudini as chair. As a result of further public pressure, the government appointed five independent people as its representatives, including noted human rights lawyer Adnan Buyung Nasution. Other independent members included former Supreme Court judge Adi Andojo Soetjipto and political commentator Andi Mallarangeng. The 1999 elections were held on 7 June, and were a success thanks to the management of the KPU, although 27 of the 48 parties contesting the election (all but one of which won less than 0.7% of the vote) refused to sign the KPU document reporting the results. The KPU passed the problem on to President Habibie, who declared the results valid on 26 July.\n\nThe second incarnation of the KPU was established on 11 April 2001 to organise the 2004 elections, but this time was made up of individuals from academia and NGOs. In 2007 the People's Representative Council (DPR) passed Law No. 22/2007, which stipulated that members of the KPU serve a five-year term. It also stated that members of the KPU would be chosen by a selection committee that together with the president would put forward a list of names to the DPR, which would conduct a fit and proper test. As a result of this process, which lasted from 21 to 30 August 2007, the initial 45 candidates were whittled down to 21, and a vote was taken by the DPR to decide on the final membership. The seven people chosen for the 2007–2012 term KPU were members of regional KPUs, academics, researchers and bureaucrats:\nThese members, minus Syamsul Bahri, who was facing legal problems, were appointed on 23 October 2007. Andi Nurpati left the KPU in 2010 since her entry to the then-ruling Democratic Party, and was replaced by Saut Hamonangan Sirait.\n\nThe Indonesian General Elections Commission is located in a building at Jalan Imam Bonjol 29. The building, designed by architect A.W. Gmelig Meyling, was completed in 1955 and was among the first to be built in the post-war architecture style in Indonesia. It was described as \"impressive\" at its completion. The building was originally used for the Pusat Perkebunan Negara (Ministry of Agriculture) office.\n\nThe current members (commisioners) of the KPU are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51153674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51153674", "title": "German National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency", "text": "German National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency\n\nThe German National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency (NAPE) () is the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan (NEEAP) for Germany. The plan was commissioned under EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Union and released on 3 December 2014. Under the plan, the German government offers an average increase of 2.1%/year in macroeconomic energy productivity from 2008 to 2020. The exact reduction in primary energy use is therefore dependent on the rate of economic growth. The NAPE is part of the Climate Action Programme2020, also approved on 3December 2014.\n\nThe German government target under the National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency is specified in terms of energy productivity relative to gross domestic product (GDP). Under the plan, the German government offers an average annual increase of 2.1% in macroeconomic energy productivity from 2008 to 2020. Assuming an annual increase in GDP of 1.1%, this represents a reduction in the energy-related share of primary\nenergy consumption (in million tonnes crude oil equivalent) from in 2008 to in 2020. And corresponds to a reduction in final energy consumption from in 2008 to in 2020. These projections are covered by a caveat on economic and physical influences beyond the control of the government.\n\nThis macroeconomic target is concurrent with other official energy efficiency and consumption targets not included in the National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency, in particular that of reducing primary energy consumption from 2008 levels by 20% in 2020 and by 50% in 2050.\n\nThe areas covered are the energy efficiency of buildings, energy conservation for companies, consumer energy efficiency, and transport energy efficiency. The policy contains both immediate and forward-looking measures. The central short-term measures of NAPE include the introduction of competitive tendering for energy efficiency, the raising of funding for building renovation, the introduction of tax incentives for efficiency measures in the building sector, and the setting up energy efficiency networks together with business and industry. German industry is expected to make a sizeable contribution.\n\nThe government's \"Fourth Energy Transition Monitoring Report\", published in 2015, briefly reviews the National Action Plan on Energy Efficiency.\n\nGovernment progress on its energy efficiency targets under NAPE and elsewhere (and on the \"Energiewende\" more generally) is subject to external review. The 2015 review found energy efficiency developments in electricity and space heating were roughly on track, although developments in transport were not. But because the various instruments introduced specifically under NAPE were still in planning, testing, or early introduction, the review panel was unable to analyse their effectiveness. These instruments will be covered in future reviews.\n\nThe 2016 annual report on NAPE, submitted to the EU on 28 April 2016, presented the major legislative and non-legislative energy efficiency measures adopted in the previous year. These include the Energy Efficiency Network Initiative aimed at companies, new obligations on non-SMEs to carry out regular energy audits, increased funding for energy efficient commercial renovation and new-build, and a new Energy Efficiency Strategy for Buildings (ESG) that may result in an \"almost climate-neutral building stock\". In addition, the government is in the process of developing a scheme to promote heating optimization, an energy efficiency program for waste heat, programs to increase the energy efficiency in municipalities, and measures to improve the use of energy in rail transport. The report also noted that final energy consumption in the transport sector rose by 3.9PJ between 2013 and 2014, as a result of the increase in passenger-kilometres by around 2.0% and tonne-kilometres by around 1.3%, despite improvements in the final energy consumption per kilometre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088073", "title": "Gift (law)", "text": "Gift (law)\n\nA gift, in the law of property, is the voluntary transfer of property from one person (the donor or grantor) to another (the donee or grantee) without full valuable consideration. In order for a gift to be legally effective, three requirements must be met:\n\nThe donor of the gift must have a present intent to make a gift of the property to the donee. A promise to make a gift in the future is unenforceable, and legally meaningless, even if the promise is accompanied by a present transfer of the physical property in question.\n\nSuppose, for example, that a man gives a woman a ring and tells her that it is for her next birthday and to hold on to it until then. The man has not made a gift, and could legally demand the ring back at any time before the woman's birthday. In contrast, suppose a man gives a woman a deed and tells her it will be in her best interest if the deed stays in his safe-deposit box. The man has made a gift and would be unable to legally reclaim it.\n\nThe gift must be delivered to the donee. If the gift is of a type that cannot be delivered in the conventional sense - a house, or a bank account - the delivery can be effected by a \"constructive delivery\", wherein a tangible item allowing access to the gift - a deed or key to the house, a passbook for the bank account - is delivered instead. \"Symbolic delivery\" is also sometimes permissible where manual delivery is impractical, such as the delivery of a key that does not open anything, but is intended to symbolize the transfer of ownership.\n\nCertain forms of property must be transferred following particular formalities described by statute law. In England, real property must be transferred by a written deed. The transfer of equitable interests must be performed in writing by the owner or their agent.\n\nA gift is assumed when property owner deeds real estate as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. Regardless of contribution to purchase price, such a deed guaranteees each tenant equal shares upon sale or partition of the property.\n\nThe donee must accept the gift in order for the property transfer to take place. However, because people generally accept gifts, acceptance will be presumed, so long as the donee does not expressly reject the gift. A rejection of the gift destroys the gift, so that a donee cannot revive a once-rejected gift by later accepting it. In order for such an acceptance to be effective, the donor would have to extend the offer of the gift again.\n\nGifts can be either:\n\n\n\nGifts can also be:\n\nConditional gifts can be revoked based on (1) donee not fulfilling the conditions (2) breach of contract by donor such as an engagement ring and in this case, the donee keeps the gift.\n\nIn India, previously there was Gift Tax Act under which donor had to pay the gift tax on the amount of gift. However, the said Act has been abolished and from FY 2004-05, a new provision was inserted in the Income Tax Act (1961) under section 56 (2) which provides that if the gift is received by an individual or Hindu undivided family from any relatives or blood relatives or at the time of marriage or as inheritance or in contemplation of death, it will not be taxable. In all other cases if the aggregagte of gifts received exceeds Rs 50,000 in a year, the gift will be taxable as income from other source.\n\nGifts into a trust above a certain value (known as the nil rate band which is currently £325,000 but this limit may be reduced by certain gifts made in the last 7 years) are generally subject to inheritance tax in the United Kingdom though at the reduced rate of inheritance tax of 20% rather than the full rate of 40%. There are certain reliefs that may apply to reduce or eliminate the IHT due including business property relief and agricultural property relief. Gifts to individuals are generally not subject to inheritance tax unless the donor dies within 7 years of the date of the gift. There is anti-avoidance legislation to prevent assets being gifted but with the donor retaining a benefit from the asset (for example the gift of the main residence while continuing to live in it will be ineffective from an IHT perspective unless market value rent is charged). Gifts in life may be a way to circumvent inheritance tax on death.\n\n"}
{"id": "1551612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551612", "title": "Gold Reserve Act", "text": "Gold Reserve Act\n\nThe United States Gold Reserve Act of January 30, 1934 required that all gold and gold certificates held by the Federal Reserve be surrendered and vested in the sole title of the United States Department of the Treasury.\n\nThe Gold Reserve Act outlawed most private possession of gold, forcing individuals to sell it to the Treasury, after which it was stored in United States Bullion Depository at Fort Knox and other locations. The act also changed the nominal price of gold from $20.67 per troy ounce to $35. This price change incentivized foreign investors to export their gold to the United States, while simultaneously devaluing the U.S. dollar in an attempt to spark inflation. The increase in gold reserves due to the price change as well as the confiscation clause resulted in a large accumulation of gold in the Federal Reserve and U.S. Treasury. The increase in the money supply lowered real interest rates which increased investment in durable goods.\n\nA year earlier, in 1933, Executive Order 6102 had made it a criminal offense for U.S. citizens to own or trade gold anywhere in the world, with exceptions for some jewelry and collector's coins. These prohibitions were relaxed starting in 1964 – gold certificates were again allowed for private investors on April 24, 1964, although the obligation to pay the certificate holder on demand in gold specie would not be honored. By 1975 Americans could again freely own and trade gold.\n\nThe Gold Reserve Act authorized the Exchange Stabilization Fund to use such assets as were not needed for exchange market stabilization to deal in government securities.\n\nThe United States was still suffering the negative effects of the 1929 stock market crash in 1934 when the Gold Reserve Act was enacted. President Roosevelt was challenged with decreasing unemployment, raising wages and increasing the money supply, but was restricted by United States' strict adherence to the gold standard. The Gold Reserve Act, which banned the export of gold, restricted the ownership of gold and halted the convertibility of gold into paper money helped him overcome this obstacle. This act ratified the previous Executive Order 6102 which required almost all gold to be exchanged for paper currency.\n\nThe Gold Reserve Act also revalued the price of gold to $35 per troy ounce. As a result, the Gold Reserve Act, an act of monetary policy, drastically increased the growth rate of the Gross National Product (GNP) from 1933 to 1941. Between 1933 and 1937 the GNP in the United States grew at an average rate of over 8 percent. This growth in real output is due primarily to a growth in the money supply M1, which grew at an average rate of 10 percent per year between 1933 and 1937. Traditional beliefs about the recovery from the Great Depression hold that the growth was due to fiscal policy and the United States' participation in World War II. Friedman and Schwartz stated that the \"rapid rate [of growth of the money stock] in three successive years from June 1933 to June 1936 ... was a consequence of the gold inflow produced by the revaluation of gold plus the flight of capital to the United States\". Treasury holdings of gold in the US tripled from 6,358 in 1930 to 8,998 in 1935 (after the Act) then to 19,543 metric tonnes of fine gold by 1940.\n\nThe revaluation of gold referenced was an active policy decision made by the Roosevelt administration in order to devalue the dollar. The largest inflow of gold during this period was in direct response to the revaluation of gold. An increase in M1, which is a result of an inflow of gold, would also lower real interest rates, thus stimulating the purchases of durable consumer goods by reducing the opportunity cost of spending. If the Gold Reserve Act had not been enacted, and money supply had followed its historical trend, then real GNP would have been approximately 25 percent lower in 1937 and 50 percent lower in 1942.\n\nThe international community during the depression began to shift much of its gold reserves to the United States. Foreign investors clamored over the $15 increase in value from $20.67 to $35 per troy ounce, and exported their gold to the United States in record amounts causing U.S. treasury holdings to increase. This data shows two important aspects that involved gold in the early 20th century. The first was the massive expansion of gold as a currency across the globe. This data also demonstrates the rapid increase of gold reserves to the US. Even in 1900 the U.S. only held 602 tonnes of gold in reserve. This was 61 tonnes less than Russia and only 57 tonnes more than France.\n\nOver the next 20 years the countries' reserves grew as the amount of gold in the market increased and as normal trading occurred. However, in the 1930s there was a sudden shift up in reserves in the U.S. From 1930 to 1940, treasury holdings had tripled, mostly due to foreign investing. Another reason behind the shift of reserves to the US was the suspension of the gold standard in Britain on September 21, 1931. Gold reserves in the Bank of England also grew over ten times from 1930 to 1940, but it was still less than the amount the U.S. had. The Bank of France also saw over 200 tonnes of gold get transferred to New York following the raising of prices in America.\n\nAlthough hard to find and interpret the raw data, according to data collected by Goldsmith in their 1955 report, somewhere between 2 and 3.2 billion dollars' worth of imported gold stock was being held. At 20 dollars an ounce, that would represent between 100 and 160 million ounces of gold, which would be worth between 125 and 200 billion dollars today at $1250/ oz, which was about half of the gold held by the U.S. treasury at the time. When the price changed, it would take $35 instead of $20 for foreign countries to buy back their gold. This implies a loss of 41% of their invested gold stock. This would be between 41 and 65 billion dollars' worth of gold (in today's money) or 800+ million dollars in 1934 dollars. But, this change did incentivize transferring additional gold to the U.S., at the higher price.\n\nThere are multiple ways to illustrate how much the money was transferred by the Act compared to the GDP. The Real GDP in 1934 was $860 billion. (0.86 trillion in chained 2009 dollars inflation adjusted). The ratio of wealth taken by the price change of gold (125+ billion in today's dollars) to GDP of 1934 ($860 billion in 2009 dollars) is 14.5%. To compare that ratio to today's U.S. GDP of $15.7 trillion, 14.5% would be about 2.3 trillion dollars today. The nominal GDP of 1934 was $66.8 billion. The $800+ million of wealth (in 1934 dollars) transferred would only be 1.2% of the GDP, if we use 1934 dollars. 1.2% of 2012's GDP would be about $190 billion today.\n\nGove Griffith Johnson, an economist and author said: \"One may be skeptical of the wisdom with which monetary instruments will be used, but the possibility of abuse extends throughout the whole sphere of governmental activity and is a risk which must be assumed under a democratic or any other form of government.\"\n\nPrior to Gold Reserve Act 1934, the Federal Reserve System was in trouble as the Great Depression had swept over the country and people looked to the Fed for solutions. Some people claim that \"market failure\" was not the cause of this trouble. Instead, they place the blame for the years of the Great Contraction (from 1929 to 1933) on the mismanagement of the monetary policy by the central bank. That explains why Congress handed over the Federal Reserve's powers to the Treasury. Johnson explains that the Treasury's gold policy \"was an essential instrument for producing desired political aims\". In other words, the Federal Reserve System had served more as a \"technical instrument for effecting the Treasury’s policies\", according to Johnson.\n\nRoosevelt justified Gold Reserve Act 1934 by saying that \"Since there was not enough gold to pay all holders of gold obligations, ... the federal government should expropriate and keep all of the gold.\"\n\nSince the Central Banking Act of 1935, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to purchase and/or sell U.S. government securities in the open market in order to determine the stock of money in the U.S. The Fed Board also gained its power over member bank reserve requirements as a result. Since the FOMC was determining the quantity of money in circulation, the quantity of gold in the system did not affect the stock of money in the U.S. economy. Due to the Banking Act, the secretary of the Treasury was no longer the Fed's Board of Governors. However, being a chairman gave the secretary enough power to influence the Fed.\n\nTreasury managers wished to halt monetary expansion in 1936 by stagnating gold and increasing reserve requirements. For all intents and purposes, this led to a freeze of the monetary system and U.S. economy. The Treasury began its own gold sterilization policy in order to stop inflation from potentially increasing due to an increase in inflow of gold into the U.S. soon after the Fed enacted the same policy. Gold holdings more than doubled in the period of 1935 to 1940. This lasted for 16 months from 1936 to 1938. In more efforts, as of the end of 1936, the Treasury noted its gold purchases as part of \"inactive\" account. In other words, the Treasury met the price of gold through sales of government securities in financial markets in order to keep the pile of gold high but they would not be converted into currency in the Treasury.\n\nAfter the act of 1934, deflation, which would sometimes be a great as −10.5% in the bust of 1921 (which was preceded by over 14% inflation for 4 consecutive years immediately prior to 1921), would never again drop below −2.1%. Before 1934, from 1914 to 1934, inflation was a (geometric) average of 1.37% per year. After 1934, from 1934 until 2013, inflation was a (geometric) average of 3.67% per year. Inflation was more stabilized, but still higher than the previous period. This may be due to leaving the gold standard, over time.\n\nThe passage of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934 signified that the American people could no longer hold gold, with the exception of jewelry and collectors' coins. After the passage of the Gold Reserve Act several people were indicted for violating the clauses that restricted gold ownership and trade. Frederick Barber Campbell (who was actually convicted under the Gold Reserve Act's predecessor, Executive Order 6102), was convicted of hoarding gold when he tried to withdraw 5,000 troy ounces of gold he had at Chase National Bank. Gus Farber, a diamond and jewelry merchant was arrested with his father and 12 others for illegally selling $20 gold coins without a license. The Baraban family was arrested for operating a gold scrap business under a false license. Foreign companies even had their gold confiscated. The Uebersee Finanz-Korporation, a Swiss banking company, had $1,250,000 in gold coins that were being held in the United States.\n\nIn the Consolidated Gold Clause Cases (independently known as \"Perry v. U.S.\", \"U.S. v. Bankers Trust Co.\", \"Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.\", \"Nortz v. U.S.\"), the Gold Reserve Act was subject to scrutiny by the United States Supreme Court, which narrowly upheld Roosevelt's gold confiscation policy.\n\nThe 2008 decision \"216 Jamaica Avenue, LLC vs S&R Playhouse Realty Co.\" established that a gold clause in contracts signed before 1933 was only suspended, not erased, and under certain limited circumstances might be reactivated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12498737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12498737", "title": "Grenada 17", "text": "Grenada 17\n\nThe Grenada 17 are the seventeen political, military and civilian figures who were convicted of various crimes associated with the overthrow of the Maurice Bishop's government of Grenada in 1983 and his subsequent murder.\n\nIn October 1983, various officials of the people's revolutionary government (PRG) of Grenada under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Bernard Coard deposed and put under house arrest Prime Minister Maurice Bishop. Large public demonstrations followed all over the country. On 19 October 1983, a large demonstration at the Prime Minister's residence led to Bishop being freed. Bishop then went with a large group to army headquarters at Fort Rupert. Later in the day, an army unit arrived from Fort Frederick and a large number of civilians at the fort subsequently died. \n\nAfter the fighting, eight persons were lined up facing a courtyard wall at the fort. They were subsequently killed. The dead consisted of:\n\n\nAfter the overthrow of the Coard Government, eighteen people were put on trial for their responsibility in the death of Maurice Bishop. On 4 December 1986 the High Court returned death sentences against 14 individuals in the deaths of Bishop and the seven others:\n\n\nTwo men were found guilty of eight incidents of manslaughter and given 45-year prison sentences.\n\n\nAndy Michell was found guilty of manslaughter and given 30 years in prison.\n\nRaeburn Nelson was found not guilty and released.\n\nAll the death sentences have subsequently been commuted.\n\nOn 18 December 2008, Hudson Austin, Colville McBarnett and John Ventour were released. The seven remaining prisoners were due to be released by 2010. On Friday, 4 September 2009, the final seven prisoners held in connection with the Bishop coup were released from prison. Senator Chester Humphrey described the release as a milestone in the island's effort to heal wounds from the events of 1983. \"It's the end of one chapter, not the completion of the book, as Grenada tries to build a future by not living in the past,\" he said, according to Associated Press news agency reports on 26 January 2009.\n\nThe seventeen have always maintained that they cannot be held responsible in relation to the murders of Maurice Bishop and the seven others. Those of the seventeen in positions of authority in government and in the army claim to have given no orders for the execution of the men and women. Callistus Bernard, the private who admits to organizing the firing squad and having shot Bishop, states that he \"lost it\". Several senior army officers present at the fort claim to have been elsewhere in the fort at the time of the executions. \n\nColville McBarnette, while having admitted his role in a central committee meeting he claims ordered the execution of Bishop, says that he is innocent because of the minor degree of responsibility he had in the decision.\n\nEwart Layne signed a confession at the time of Bishop's murder accepting sole responsibility for issuing the orders that led to the executions. Layne subsequently said that he was beaten and forced to sign the statement.\n\nHudson Austin has never explained his actions nor attempted to defend them.\n\nBernard Coard, the head of the government at the time, has stated that he intended to leave the country after the protests concerning his arrest of Bishop broke out.\n\nSome have questioned the fairness of the defendants' trial. Several people have campaigned on their behalf worldwide and a pamphlet by Richard Hart, \"The Grenada Trial: A Travesty of Justice\" (Committee for Human Rights in Grenada, 1993), gives a critique of the trial process. In October 2003 Amnesty International issued a report stating that their arrest and trial had been a miscarriage of justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "41902060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41902060", "title": "Guillotine clause", "text": "Guillotine clause\n\nA guillotine clause is a stipulation that an adoption of a contract package depends on the adoption of all of the individual treaties or contracts included. Under the guillotine clause, if only one treaty or contract is either not accepted by an involved party or canceled later, all treaties or contracts are then deemed not accepted or terminated.\n\nThat prevents a party from cherry-picking the treaties of the contract package that it supports if the other party considers it to be essential for all of the contract package to be enforced.\n\nThe guillotine clause in treaties of the European Union with other countries is the most notable case of its use\n\nAn example of the guillotine clause is found in the body of bilateral treaties between the European Union to Switzerland. The treaties give Switzerland access to the internal market if Switzerland follow its rules. The clause states that if any of the seven treaties are to be terminated, all of the treaties are automatically terminated. Also, later changes in the underlying EU directives must be accepted by Switzerland.\n\nOne reason for the creation of this clause is that the more cumbersome decision-making processes of the European Union would make it difficult for it to respond to the termination of other contracts if Switzerland terminated them. \n\nIn 2009, Switzerland accepted a change to one of the treaties, the treaty on free movement, by extending it to the new EU countries. That was relatively controversial in Switzerland, but it was passed in a referendum and so the guillotine clause was not invoked.\n\nAfter the success of the 2014 Swiss referendum to limit EU immigration through quotas, the invocation of guillotine clause has been suggested to terminate all the other agreements signed since 1999.\nThe EU has claimed that the bilateral treaties already give Switzerland more cherry-picking in its relation to the EU than any other country of which Switzerland should be allowed no more than now.\n\nSwitzerland has a deadline in 2017 to achieve a negotiated solution.\n\nEU also has guillotine clauses in the EEA agreements with Norway (2001), Iceland (2001), and Liechtenstein (2008), which must directly accept both existing and added EU directives within several fields relating to trade (except food) free movement and the internal market. Refusing such directives would give the EU the right to terminate the entire EEA agreement and so the EEA countries have avoided doing so.\n"}
{"id": "36557298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36557298", "title": "Hydraform International", "text": "Hydraform International\n\nThe Hydraform Interlocking Soil Block (hydraform block) is an interlocking earth block used in many African countries for construction purposes. The hydraform block is made from soil cement which is a mixture of soil, cement and water, and is hydraulically compressed to form a high quality interlocking soil block. Soil from the building site can be used to manufacture building blocks. Sandcrete and landcrete are similar materials but are not compressed.\n\nThe Hydraform compressed earth block is very popular due to the cost savings that are involved during the construction process as only around 30% of the structure requires mortar between the blocks. Due to the interlocking nature of the stabilized soil block, unskilled labour can be utilised in construction thereby empowering rural communities and creating jobs.\n\nThe blocks interlock top to bottom and front to back. Blocks dimensions are wide, high and long. It weighs approximately . Once blocks are manufactured it is \"wet cured\" for a period of 14–21 days to reach desired strength.\n\nThe inventor of the current Hydraform concept which has been in use since the year 1988 Mr. Joachim Kofahl (https://www.google.com/patents/WO2001058654A1?cl=de ) There have been more than 5,000 Hydraform machines manufactured and sold worldwide between 1988 and 2017 [7]\n\n"}
{"id": "43371533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43371533", "title": "Indian Sale of Goods Act 1930", "text": "Indian Sale of Goods Act 1930\n\nIndian Sale of Goods Act 1930 is a Mercantile Law. The Sale of Goods Act is a kind of Indian Contract Act. It came into existence on 1 July 1930. It is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the title (ownership) in the goods to the buyer for consideration. It is applicable all over India, except Jammu and Kashmir.\nThe goods are sold from owner to buyer for a certain price and at a given period of time.The name Indian is removed from the act with effect from 23 September 1963 hence the act name is now Sale of Goods act 1930\n\n\" According to section 6 of the Indian sales of goods act, a contract of sales means such contract by which the seller transfer the title or ownership of the goods to the buyer or makes an agreement to transfer it against a fixed price \"\n\n1. Buyer\nA person who buys or agrees to buy goods.Section-2(1)\n2. Seller\nA person who sells or agrees to sell goods.section-2(13)\n\n3. Goods\nEvery kind of movable property other than actionable things and money,includes stocks and share, growing crops and grass and things attached to or forming to a part of land which is agreed to be severed before the sale or under the contract of sale.section-2(7)\n\n4. Existing goods\nGoods which are in existence at the time of contract of sale.section-6\n\n5. Future goods\nGoods which are to be manufactured /produced by seller after making contract of sale.section-2(6)\n\n6. Specific goods\nGoods which are identified & agreed upon at the time of contract of sale has been made..section-6(2)\n\n"}
{"id": "29504269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29504269", "title": "Japan–Korea Agreement of August 1904", "text": "Japan–Korea Agreement of August 1904\n\nThe Japan–Korea Protocol of August 1904 was made between representatives of the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire in 1904. Negotiations were concluded on August 22, 1904.\n\nThis treaty required Korea to engage financial and diplomatic advisers designated by Japan. Also, the treaty required Korea to consult with Japan before making treaties with foreign powers, and before granting concessions or making contracts with foreigners.\n\nThe treaty presumes that the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of His Majesty the Emperor of Japan and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs \"ad interim\" of His Majesty the Emperor of Korea were respectively authorized and empowered to negotiate and to agree upon the specific language of the proposed bilateral treaty:\n\n\nThe Korean Government shall engage as financial adviser to the Korean Government a Japanese subject recommended by the Japanese Government, and all matters concerning finance shall be dealt with after his counsel has been taken.\n\nThe Korean Government shall engage as a diplomatic adviser to the Department of Foreign Affairs a foreigner recommended by the Japanese Government, and all important matters concerning foreign relations shall be dealt with after his counsel has been taken.\n\nThe Korean Government shall consult the Japanese Government previous to concluding Treaties or Conventions with foreign Powers, and in dealing with other important diplomatic affairs such as granting of concessions to or contracts with foreigners.\n\nAn amplified explanation of the scope and purpose of Article III was mentioned in a 1904 letter from the Japanese Ambassador to the United States Takahira Kogorō to the American Secretary of State John Hay: \n\nThis \"alleged treaty\" was contrived in a coercive process; and Koreans sought to invalidate the unwanted consequences by presenting evidence to the international community. For example, \n\nThis treaty was confirmed to be \"\"already null and void\" by Treaty on Basic Relations between Japan and the Republic of Korea concluded in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5802889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802889", "title": "Joint venture broker", "text": "Joint venture broker\n\nJoint venture brokers are people who connect business joint venture partners together for profit making projects. The joint venture brokers will earn a pre-negotiated percentage of the profits earned from the joint venture that they helped put together.\n\nJoint venture brokers are skilled networkers that can find key people/businesses in different niches and connect them to other people/businesses in the same niche in order to share one businesses products/services with another businesses customers. A joint venture broker must tread lightly and be aware not to put direct competitors together as partners, but find indirect competitors that both market to the same target audiences with different and complementary products/services. In finding such suitable partners, great joint venture partnerships can be created.\n\nOften a joint venture broker will be hired by a business that has either a product, service, or a customer base that could be better monetized. The product/service owner will be seeking partners who have a customer base that is targeted to their product/service. Like-wise the person/business with a customer base (often ezine/newsletter publishers or high traffic webmasters) will be seeking products and services related to their customers' interests so they can market them to their customers.\n\nThe joint venture broker may be hired by either of these two partner types in order to connect them with each other to create successful and profitable joint ventures. The joint venture broker will often find multiple suitable partners for their clients to joint venture with, thus producing greater profits of which the broker is often paid a pre-negotiated percentage of sales.\n"}
{"id": "50758177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50758177", "title": "Kansas Women Attorneys Association", "text": "Kansas Women Attorneys Association\n\nThe Kansas Women Attorneys Association (KWAA) is a voluntary, statewide bar organization devoted to advancing women in the legal profession through networking, service, and continued education. The organization was formally founded in 1994, and currently has over 270 members.\n\nIn 1989, the Topeka Women Attorneys Association hosted the first Kansas state meeting for female attorneys, led by Justice Marla Luckert. From 1989 to 1994, the Wichita Women Attorneys Association and Topeka Women Attorneys Association (Now Women Attorneys Association of Topeka) shared responsibility for this annual meeting.\n\nIn 1993, conference attendees determined a need for a permanent, statewide organization for female attorneys. The Jennie Mitchell Kellogg Circle (later KWAA) was formed the following year around the purposes of:\nToday, KWAA continues to host the annual Lindsborg Conference, as well as encourage monthly meetings among its regional districts and their local women attorney groups.\n\nMembership to KWAA is open to all attorneys, judges, and law students, regardless of gender. This membership allows individuals to access a discounted price to the Lindsborg conference, receive legal updates and answers to questions through the Listserv, and network with fellow attorneys. The 365 members are formally organized into 12 location-based districts, but also have the option to join practice area groups in addition to these. Governance for the organization is run through 5 committees (Awards Committee, District Representatives, KWAA Council, Lindsborg Conference Committee, and Past Presidents Council) and 26 subcommittees. The membership year runs from August 1 to July 31 each year.\n\nThe annual KWAA conference has been held in Lindsborg, KS since 1989. Today, the conference spans three days in July and is held at Bethany College. Conference attendees have the opportunity to participate in Continuing Legal Education courses, as well as a number of networking and social activities. In past years, the conference has featured national speakers like Kathleen Sebelius, Molly Ivins, Deanell Reece Tacha, Nancy Kassebaum, Gail Collins, Wilma Mankiller, and Ellen Goodman.\n\nThe Jennie Mitchell Kellogg Achievement Award was first presented in 1999, and has been a yearly staple since. This award seeks to recognize a member who:\nThis award has been presented to notable women like Christel Marquardt, Marla Luckert, and Sally Pokorny.\n\nThe Kansas Women Attorneys Association works diligently to preserve and archive historical information pertaining to the female practice of law in Kansas. Research includes a complete list of female attorneys dating back to 1881. These research efforts are often aided by area law schools including, Washburn University School of Law, University of Kansas School of Law, and University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law.\n\nOne of the projects with sister organization, Women Attorneys Association of Topeka, was the production of the book \"Journeys on the Road Less Travelled: Kansas Women Attorneys.\" The entire book may be found online through the Washburn University School of Law Digital Collection.\n"}
{"id": "8383045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8383045", "title": "LabCorp v. Metabolite, Inc", "text": "LabCorp v. Metabolite, Inc\n\nLabCorp v. Metabolite, Inc. is a court case related to the patentability of scientific principles which the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear, and later dismissed, in 2006.\n\nIn 1999, Metabolite sued LabCorp for infringement of a patent covering a diagnostic test. The claims of Metabolite's patent include the correlation between levels of homocysteine and vitamins B and B. A jury ordered LabCorp to pay $4.7 million in damages and the decision was upheld by a federal court, which further stated that doctors were 'directly infringing' Metabolite's patents each time such a test is ordered and interpreted. LabCorp argued that the correlation is a principle of nature, and therefore the patent should never have been granted. The court dismissed the case, although Justice Breyer, Justice Stevens, and Justice Souter dissented from this decision. Breyer's dissenting opinion cited numerous cases in which scientific and mathematical principles had been held to be patent ineligible, including \"O'Reilly v. Morse\" and \"Gottschalk v. Benson\"..\n\nHad the case been heard, and had Metabolite's patent been invalidated, the case would have had broad implications for biotechnology companies, which may have extended far beyond patentability of correlations of biomarkers to disease states. Lori Andrews outlined various concerns regarding how routine academic practices might become actionable under the results of the case. Metabolite's brief to the court suggested that overturning the patent might lead to invalidation of all drug patents on the grounds that the inventors \"merely discovered that certain chemicals interact with the human body in ways directed by chemistry.\"\n\nIn \"Mayo v. Prometheus\" in 2012 the Supreme Court unanimously held what the dissenting Justices argued for in this case. That did not lead, however, to invalidation of all drug patents on the grounds that the inventors \"merely discovered that certain chemicals interact with the human body in ways directed by chemistry,\" at least not as of 2015.\n\nLITE LABORATORIES, INC., ET AL.</nowiki>]\n\n"}
{"id": "5744948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5744948", "title": "Legalism (Western philosophy)", "text": "Legalism (Western philosophy)\n\nLegalism, in the Western sense, is an approach to the analysis of legal questions characterized by abstract logical reasoning focusing on the applicable legal text, such as a constitution, legislation, or case law, rather than on the social, economic, or political context. Legalism has occurred both in civil and common law traditions.\n\nIn its narrower versions, legalism may endorse the notion that the pre-existing body of authoritative legal materials already contains a uniquely pre-determined right answer to any legal problem that may arise.\n\nLegalism typically also claims that the task of the judge is to ascertain the answer to a legal question by an essentially mechanical process.\n\n"}
{"id": "6051859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6051859", "title": "Lightwell", "text": "Lightwell\n\nIn architecture a lightwell, light well or air shaft is an unroofed external space provided within the volume of a large building to allow light and air to reach what would otherwise be a dark or unventilated area. Lightwells may be lined with glazed bricks to increase the reflection of sunlight within the space.\n\nLightwells serve to reduce the necessity for electric lighting, add a central space within the building, and provide an internal open space for windows to give an illusion of having a view outside.\n\nA subterranean lightwell at the front of a building to provide light to a basement is called an area (or areaway in North American usage).\n\nThe lightwell was used in ancient civilizations, such as the Egyptians and at the Palace of Knossos on Minoan Crete. There are also instances of light well use by the Romans.\n\n"}
{"id": "38499830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38499830", "title": "List of United States Supreme Court cases involving standing", "text": "List of United States Supreme Court cases involving standing\n\nA number of United States Supreme Court opinions have been important for their development of the doctrine of legal standing in the context of federal law in the United States. Some of those opinions include:\n"}
{"id": "31079903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31079903", "title": "List of legislation named for a person", "text": "List of legislation named for a person\n\nThis is a list of legislation with popular names (of people), often the member of Parliament/Congress responsible for it or a law named for a person of notoriety that prompted enactment of the legislation. Some of these Acts acquired their names because short titles were not used, and some now have different short titles. Popular names are generally informal (such as Megan's law) but may reflect the official short title of the legislation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4191328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4191328", "title": "Maternity Protection Convention, 2000", "text": "Maternity Protection Convention, 2000\n\nMaternity Protection Convention, 2000 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 2000, with the preamble stating:\n\"Noting the need to revise the Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952, and the Maternity Protection Recommendation, 1952, in order to further promote equality of all women in the workforce and the health and safety of the mother and child, and in order to recognize the diversity in economic and social development of Members, as well as the diversity of enterprises, and the development of the protection of maternity in national law and practice, and\n<br>\n<br>\n\"Noting the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (1979), the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (1995), the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Equality of Opportunity and Treatment for Women Workers (1975), the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its Follow-up (1998), as well as the international labour Conventions and Recommendations aimed at ensuring equality of opportunity and treatment for men and women workers, in particular the Convention concerning Workers with Family Responsibilities, 1981, and\n<br>\n<br>\n\"Taking into account the circumstances of women workers and the need to provide protection for pregnancy, which are the shared responsibility of government and society, and\n<br>\n<br>\n\"Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952, and Recommendation, 1952, which is the fourth item on the agenda of the session, and\n<br>\n<br>\n\"Having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international Convention;\n<br>\n<br>\n\"adopts this fifteenth day of June of the year two thousand the following Convention, which may be cited as the Maternity Protection Convention, 2000.\" \n\nThis Convention revised a 1952 ILO convention (C103), which in turn was a revision of the original 1919 ILO convention (C3). The revision was aimed at gaining more ratification by easing the requirements of the 1952 convention.\n\nThe convention addresses the following subjects:\n\nAs of the May 2016, the following 32 states have ratified this Convention:\n\n"}
{"id": "4190772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190772", "title": "Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969", "text": "Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969\n\nMedical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969 is an International Labour Organization Convention. It was established in 1969 revised Convention C24 Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927 and Convention C25 Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 15 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "14761765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14761765", "title": "OHADA", "text": "OHADA\n\nOHADA is a system of corporate law and implementing institutions adopted by seventeen West and Central African nations in 1993 in Port Louis, Mauritius. OHADA is the acronym for the French \"Organisation pour l'harmonisation en Afrique du droit des affaires\", which translates into English as \"Organisation for the Harmonization of Corporate Law in Africa\".\n\nThe OHADA Treaty is made up today of 17 African states. Initially fourteen African countries signed the treaty, with two countries (Comoros and Guinea) subsequently adhering to the treaty and a third (the Democratic Republic of Congo) due to adhere shortly. The Treaty is open to all states, whether or not they are members of the Organisation of African Unity. OHADA was created with the objective of fostering economic development in West and Central Africa by creating a better investment climate so as to attract investment in a 225 million-consumer market.\n\nAs a West and Central African initiative to harmonize business laws and implementing institutions, OHADA aims to find alternative solutions to the lack of economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa - a region which has challenged and puzzled development economists for several decades. The stated purpose of the initiative is to facilitate and encourage both domestic and foreign investment in the member states, and as most of the participating countries are former French colonies, they draw chiefly on a modernised French legal model to achieve their goals. The laws promulgated by OHADA are exclusively business-related. The OHADA treaty has created a supranational court (Common Court of Justice and Arbitration of the Organization for the Harmonization in Africa of Business Law ) to ensure uniformity and consistent legal interpretations across the member countries, and the French influence in court proceedings is apparent.\n\nThe most critical tool for legal integration is the Uniform Act. A uniform act is the recollection of all relevant legal norms needed to ease business in the Member States. As of today, OHADA includes nine validated Uniform Acts: General Commercial Law, Commercial Companies and Economic Interest Groups, Secured Transactions Law, Debt Resolution Law, Insolvency Law, Arbitration Law, Harmonization of Corporate Accounting, Contracts for the Carriage of Goods, Cooperatives Companies Law. Two Uniform Acts (Arbitration and Accounting) are currently being revised.\n\n"}
{"id": "13439818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13439818", "title": "Private foundation (United States)", "text": "Private foundation (United States)\n\nUntil 1969, the term \"private foundation\" was not defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code. Since then, every U.S. charity that qualifies under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Service Code as tax-exempt is a \"private foundation\" unless it demonstrates to the IRS that it falls into another category. Private foundations in the United States are generally subject to a 1% or 2% excise tax on net investment income. According to the Foundation Center, a private foundation is a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization, which has a principal fund managed by its own trustees or directors. Hopkins (2013) listed four characteristics that make up a private foundation:\n\nThe Tax Reform Act of 1969 created the private foundation as we know of it today where the tax code imposed the present day legal framework. These restrictions came about as a reform effort to remedy perceived abuses of private foundations such as the claim that this type of charitable organization more likely served the private interests of the rich rather than the intended charitable purpose. Such criticism asserted that private individuals created private foundations as a vehicle to protect their assets from taxation; meanwhile the descendants may assert control over these assets almost in perpetuity. This is the context from which the present day legal framework arose.\n\nIn 2007 \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that wealthy families are both increasing the number of foundations they close as well as increasing the number they establish. One trend is to put a time limit on the life of a foundation, under the assumption that heavy spending over a short period of time will do more good than slower spending over the long term. Some foundations are closed due to family disputes, concern about the effect of foundation wealth on descendants, and concern that future generations will not share the political beliefs that spurred the original establishment of the foundation. Sometimes one is closed, only to be reopened with a new purpose.\n\nA private foundation is a nonprofit organization having a principal fund managed by its own directors or trustees. Private foundations maintain or aid charitable, educational, religious, or other activities serving the public good, primarily through the making of grants to other nonprofit organizations. \n\nHowever, some scholars, such as, Silk and Lintott (2002) argue that even though private foundations offer a number of tax benefits, taxes are not a sufficient reason to create a private foundation. Given some charitable intent on the part of the founder, there are several substantial financial and personal benefits to creating a foundation. Using the Rockefeller Foundation and the Gates Foundation as example, Eckl (2014) discusses the fact that private foundations have the power to shape global social and health policy. He argues that adding monetary resources and supplementary goodwill to existing global efforts is not the only goal of private foundations, rather it is still likely that they pursue a partisan agenda. \n\nA private foundation is typically set up as a non-profit corporation that bears the name of its donors, but may alternatively be established as a trust. Donors specify the charitable purpose of the foundation (example: grants for cancer research, scholarships for the needy, support of religious goals) . During their lifetime, they may continue their charitable giving by making tax deductible contributions to the foundation. The foundation may also be funded with a bequest from the donors' will or trust or receive funds as the primary or secondary beneficiary of a qualified plan or IRA.The IRS reports that there were 115,340 private foundations in the U.S. in 2008, of which 110,099 were grantmaking (non-operating) and 5,241 were operating foundations. Approximately 75% of the private foundations file annually with the IRS.\n\nOnce a foundation has been classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a private foundation, there are ways to describe it based on how the foundation is funded and governed. There are three types of private foundations: Family foundations, Private Operating foundations, and Corporate Foundations.\n\nMany private foundations are family foundations. Family foundation is not a legal term, and therefore, it has no precise definition. Yet, approximately two-thirds of the estimated 44,000 private foundations in the United States are believed to be family managed. This standard type of private foundation will provide grants directly to other charitable organizations that will use those funds to carry out the charitable activities or programs. Moody, Knap, Corra (2011) discuss the different definitions of family foundation that organizations and researchers used. They argue that because family foundation make up a large proportion of total foundations, it is essential to have a better clarity of the definition. \n\nThe Council on Foundations defines a family foundation as a \"foundation whose funds are derived from members of a single family. At least one family member must continue to serve as an officer or board member of the foundation, they or their relatives play a significant role in governing and/or managing the foundation throughout its life. Most family foundations are run by family members who serve as trustees or directors on a voluntary basis, receiving no compensation; in many cases, second- and third-generation descendants of the original donors manage the foundation.\" The Rockefeller Foundation, and the Gates Foundation are two of the most renowned and influential family foundations in the United States.\n\nPrivate operating foundations are private foundations that use the bulk of their income to provide charitable services or to run charitable programs of their own. They make few, if any, grants to outside organizations. Thus, a private operating foundation sponsors and manages its own programs. A typical example of this would be a day camp for underprivileged children. Rather than providing grants to another organization to administer such a camp, which a standard private foundation would do, the private operating foundation will \"operate\" the camp. The private operating foundation will maintain a qualified staff as well as other personnel needed to carry out the program on a continuing basis. To qualify as a private operating foundation, specific rules, in addition to the applicable rules for private foundations, must be followed. \n\nA private foundation qualifies as a private operating foundation by satisfying two numerical tests. These tests ensure that the private operating foundation is conducting its exempt activities directly and not simply making grants to other organizations. The first of the two tests is an income test, which requires a specific amount of income to be spent on direct charitable activities. \n\nThe second test is actually made up of three different tests: an asset test, an endowment test and a support test. However, the private operating foundation only has to satisfy one of these three tests, in addition to the income test, to qualify. Similar to the income test, these other three tests help to ensure that the private operating foundation is using its funds to meet the requirement of conducting direct charitable activities. \n\nIn contrast, a private foundation that principally provides grants to other entities or to individuals for charitable or other exempt purposes would not qualify as an operating foundation, and instead would be called a \"nonoperating foundation\". The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Getty Trust are examples of operating foundations.\n\nA corporate (company-sponsored) foundation is \"a private foundation that derives its grant-making funds primarily from the contributions of a profit-making business. The company-sponsored foundation often maintains close ties with the donor company, but it is a separate, legal organization, sometimes with its own endowment, and is subject to the same rules and regulations as other private foundations.\" \n\nAccording to the Foundation Center, corporate foundation giving grew to an estimated $5.2 billion in 2011, up 6 percent from 2010. Education (22%) and human services (20%) were the top funding priorities of corporate foundations in 2009, followed by public affairs/society benefit (19%), health (15%), arts and culture (14&), international affairs (4%), environment and animals (4%), and science and technology (2%). The table below includes the five largest corporate foundations ranked by total giving. All figures are based on the most current audited financial data in the Foundation Center's database as of November 16, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "19550714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19550714", "title": "Public.Resource.Org", "text": "Public.Resource.Org\n\nPublic.Resource.Org is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation dedicated to publishing and sharing public domain materials in the United States and internationally. It was founded by Carl Malamud and is based in Sebastopol, California.\n\nPublic.Resource.Org takes particular interest in digitizing and making accessible the works of the United States Federal Government, which because of US government licensing rules for its own work are almost always in the public domain. Major projects conducted by the organization include the digitizing and sharing of large numbers of court records, US government-produced video, and laws of various places.\n\nThe organization often advertises its work by saying \"Yes We Scan\", a play on Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign slogan \"Yes We Can\". The Yes We Scan focus as of autumn 2013 is an effort to digitize and publish every available set of safety standards for every jurisdiction in the world.\n\nMalamud works on the premise that information in the public domain, and particularly government-generated information of this sort, ought to be as easy as possible for the public to access. In doing this, he identifies interesting collections of information held by organizations which have failed to grant free public access to it. Two typical circumstances are that the creator of the information has failed to make it available online in any form, or that the creator has provided the information to a private company which itself charges fees for access to the information. At this point, Malamud acquires the free information himself, publishes it in public.resource.org as a free communication channel, and then demonstrates publicly that he has made information free when otherwise it would not be and calls for pressure on the holder of the information to collaborate in developing the information release.\n\nIn 2013, Public.Resource.Org filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requesting copies of nine annual information reports (Form 990) for tax-exempt entities in MeF (modernized e-file) format. The IRS refused to provide the MeF files, claiming that the effort to edit them to conform to required privacy standards for the filers represented an unreasonable burden. On January 29, 2015, a U.S. District Court ruled against the IRS, requiring that the IRS provide the requested files within 60 days. Observers believe that this decision will result in the IRS moving more rapidly toward providing electronic versions of Form 990 to the public.\n\nIn 2007 Malamud began publishing the full text of United States legal opinions dating from 1880 in an effort to begin a process intended to create a free publicly accessible database intended to hold the entirety of US Case law. Goals of the project included the creation of \"an unencumbered full-text repository of the Federal Reporter, the Federal Supplement, and the Federal Appendix\" and \"an unencumbered full-text repository of all state and federal cases and codes.\" In describing this project, journalist Tim O'Reilly described this information to be \"clearly public data\" yet also \"the crown jewels of public data available for profit\", as companies including West had collected billions of dollars in fees for granting access to this data.\n\nMalamud called for increased awareness that Westlaw was a commercial broker of the United States Federal Reporter, Federal Supplement, and Federal Appendix. While Westlaw had been adding value to the content by indexing it with their proprietary West American Digest System and accompanying summaries, the purchase of their products was the only way to access much of the public domain material they hosted. Malamud began to distribute these materials for free while saying in an open letter to the company\n\nIn 2010 Google awarded the project 2 million USD in funding through their Project 10^100 challenge to submit ideas for changing the world.\n\nPublic.Resource.Org collects old and forgotten United States government video, digitizes it, and distributes it for free online in a project called FedFlix. Video is purchased or requested from government agencies such as the National Technical Information Service. These videos are digitized and uploaded with metadata to YouTube and Public.Resource.Org's servers. Most of these videos were produced with federal government funding and intended for educational purposes. There is also a collection of videos from FedFlix at the Internet Archive which contains over 8,700 items.\n\nYouTube's Content ID tool helps copyright holders make requests to remove their copyrighted videos from YouTube. Malamud has complained that large media organizations are using this tool to unfairly attack and call for the removal of Public.Resource.Org's upload of US federal government videos on the improper claim of their copyright over them, when in fact these works are purported by the US government to be public domain works.\n\n\"Yes We Scan\" is a phrase used as a name for various Public.Resource.Org projects which have the goal of digitizing and making available large collections of documents.\n\nIn 2009 when Carl Malamud petitioned to become the Public Printer of the United States the campaign slogan was \"Yes we scan!\"\n\nIn 2011 Public.Resource.org submitted a \"YesWeScan.org\" proposal to the United States federal government petitioning system We the People asking for the creation of a plan to scan all public federal government holdings. David Ferriero responded to the petition describing efforts to increase availability of government archives.\n\nIn 2013 Public.Resource.Org organized a fundraiser for a Yes We Scan project to collect, digitize, and make available all government safety standards in every country. In 2010 Public.Resource.Org managed a smaller project to free the public safety codes in California in the United States.\n\nIn 2007 Malamud petitioned for more open access to some C-SPAN recordings.\n\nC-SPAN is a private media company which records and broadcasts the discussions of the United States Congress.\nThe company's business model is to provide its recordings for fees to cable and satellite television broadcasters.\n\nIn February 2007, Nancy Pelosi was publishing on her blog as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and inserted video clips from C-SPAN into her messages. Persons representing her opposing political party claimed that she was violating copyright in using the videos. C-SPAN investigated the situation and found that in some cases she was and in other cases she was not, and they clarified their position in the media.\n\nC-SPAN confirmed that through more than 25 years of operating it had consistently asserted its copyright over all of the material which it created with its own cameras, which was 85-95% of its content. The rest of its content was produced on the House and Senate floors with government cameras, and this material was in fact public domain content as a work of the US federal government. A representative of C-SPAN said that \"It is perfectly understandable to me that people would be confused… (because the situation is that) when a congressman says something on the floor it is public domain, but (when) he walks down the street to a committee hearing or give a speech and (then) it is not public domain. The representative went on to say that \"I think a lot of people don't understand (that) C-SPAN is a business, just like CNN is, … (and) If we don't have a revenue stream, we wouldn't have six crews ready to cover Congressional hearings.\"\n\nIn 2007 Malamud petitioned for more open access to some C-SPAN recordings. Electronic Frontier Foundation credited Malamud's efforts and a letter to Brian Lamb of C-SPAN to their agreement in 2007 to make congressional recordings much more accessible.\n\nIn 2006 Malamud complained that private company Showtime Networks and the publicly owned Smithsonian Institution were entering a contract to establish Smithsonian Networks without sufficient public disclosure. Under the contract Showtime would be able to deny permission to other media producers wishing access to Smithsonian collections. Documentarian Ken Burns said of this deal \"I find this deal terrifying... It feels like the Smithsonian has essentially optioned America's attic to one company\".\n\nRalph Nader endorses the work of the organization.\n\nIn the case of \"American Society for Testing and Materials et al. v. Public.Resource.Org, Inc.\", Public.Resource.org was sued by the American Society for Testing and Materials, the National Fire Protection Association, and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers for scanning and making available building codes and fire codes which these organizations consider their copyrighted property. The case was heard in the District Court of the District of Columbia, with Judge Tanya S. Chutkan presiding. Chutkan ruled against Public.Resource.Org. Malamud was ordered to delete all the standards from the Internet. As of September 2017, the case is on appeal to the D.C. Circuit. A number of library and public interest associations have weighed in supporting the position of Public.Resource.Org.\n\n"}
{"id": "33186491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33186491", "title": "Recess (Holy Roman Empire)", "text": "Recess (Holy Roman Empire)\n\nA Recess () in the Holy Roman Empire was the document detailing all the decisions made by an Imperial Diet.\n\nUntil 1654, a Diet began, in addition to ceremonial rituals, with the reading of the Imperial Proposition—the agenda predetermined by the Emperor—and ended with the decisions being read by the Emperor and ratified, the Recess.\n\nThe last such Recess is called the Youngest Recess () and contains the resolutions of the 1653/54 Diet of Regensburg.\n\nSince the Perpetual Diet of Regensburg which began in 1663 was never formally concluded, its decisions could not be collected as a Recess. They were therefore issued in the form of so-called Imperial Conclusions (\"Reichsschlüsse\"). Ratification of these conclusions was usually carried out by the Emperor's representative in the Reichstag, the Principal Commissioner, in the form of an Imperial Commissioner's decree.\n"}
{"id": "12303440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12303440", "title": "Reduction in rank", "text": "Reduction in rank\n\nReduction in rank may refer to three separate concepts:\n\nReduction in rank (Latin \"gradus deiectio\" meaning position degradation) was a Roman military punishment.\n\nIn the United States, courts-martial may adjudge reduction to any enlisted member to the lowest or any intermediate pay grade. However, a summary court-martial may not sentence a person to reduction by more than one grade.\n\nArticle 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) authorizes commanding officers to \"in addition to or in lieu of admonition or reprimand\" impose \"reduction to the next inferior pay grade, if the grade from which demoted is within the promotion authority of the officer imposing the reduction or any officer subordinate to the one who imposes the reduction.\" Additionally, an officer of the grade of major, lieutenant commander, or above is authorized to impose \"reduction to the lowest or any intermediate pay grade, if the grade from which demoted is within the promotion authority of the officer imposing the reduction or any officer subordinate to the one who imposes the reduction, but an enlisted member in a pay grade above E-4 may not be reduced more than two pay grades.\"\n\nAdditionally, article 58a of the UCMJ provides that, unless otherwise provided in regulation, an enlisted member above the pay grade of E-1 sentenced by a court-martial to confinement, a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, or hard labor without confinement, shall be automatically reduced to the pay grade of E-1.\n\nIn other countries, there is such a punishment, which is sometimes much more severe than that in the US. It usually is assigned for serious crimes in peacetime and wartime.\n\nIn the Russian Empire and in the USSR, most often it was a demotion in rank to private. \nIn the Russian Empire to this punishment was added also other penalties such as beatings with whips, which were all the staff. Personnel lined up in formation, then each dealt one blow sentenced. Most often, this has led to the death of the convict from his injuries.\n\nLieutenant-General Marquis Philip Osipovich Paulucci, being quartermaster General of the Caucasus army, on 3 November 1810, wrote in his diary: \"the Tiflis infantry regiment non-commissioned officer Ermolaev, the former in the recruit depot when you split the party on the shelves, took the recruit 5 rubles brazenly. For any impermissible and intolerable service act, reducted thereof in the ordinary non-commissioned officer, require him to drive the rods through 500 people one time, and taken money from him to take away and give to a recruit. Flogging this very same to do tomorrow in 8 hours. This case put the body on view at the end of the Lord to the heads of regiments are strictly watched so that the lower ranks no one had injustices...\"\n\nDemoted in rank, with the exception only of occasions a great military feat, can get officer rank except by Highest permission about not reading an incurred penalty obstacle to the awards; to enter with the idea of this is permitted no sooner than after three years after a demotion (article 43). On the basis of article 60, 556, 634, and 727 kN. SV VII. military. post. demoted cannot be produced in the non-commissioned officers, not assigned to any trip, you don't leave and transferred to the reserve only with a special permission.\n\nIn the USSR, demotion in rank to private begin to see use as a punishment immediately after the creation of the red army. As a rule, it punished those who made unforgivable mistakes during combat, especially those who led to serious losses or tactical defeat. In addition, it also punished those who committed serious crimes while serving. In the second case, a demotion in rank was usually not the only punishment administered, and often accompanied an imprisonment or execution.\nDuring the second world war, those demoted in rank were not imprisoned away from the front lines but instead made to serve in the penal divisions.\nAfter the second world war, the punishment no longer meant execution or service in a penal unit, but did mean dismissal from service and forfeiture of all military awards. Most often it was imposed for serious crimes which entail criminal liability. In modern Russia this post-WW2 version of the punishment is still used.\n\nOn December 22, 2015, Konstantin Grishin (better known as Semen Semenchenko) was demoted in rank while serving as the commander of the voluntary Donbass battalion. While all of the other punishments he received. The reason for the demotion in rank was the fact that he does not have the appropriate training and education to carry the title of Lieutenant.\n\nFor example, during the Third Reich, the SS officer Helmut Knochen was demoted in rank because, during the coup attempt of 20 July 1944, he did not adequately resist the conspirators, and got himself arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "21829304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21829304", "title": "Richard Posner", "text": "Richard Posner\n\nRichard Allen Posner (; born January 11, 1939) is an American jurist and economist who was a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago from 1981 until 2017, and is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School. He is a leading figure in the field of law and economics, and was identified by \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" as the most cited legal scholar of the 20th century.\n\nPosner is known for his scholarly range and for writing on topics outside of his primary field, law. In his various writings and books, he has addressed animal rights, feminism, drug prohibition, same-sex marriage, Keynesian economics, and academic moral philosophy, among other subjects.\n\nPosner is the author of nearly 40 books on jurisprudence, economics, and several other topics, including \"Economic Analysis of Law\", \"The Economics of Justice\", \"The Problems of Jurisprudence\", \"Sex and Reason\", \"Law, Pragmatism and Democracy\", and \"The Crisis of Capitalist Democracy\". Posner has generally been identified as being politically conservative; however, in recent years he has distanced himself from the positions of the Republican party authoring more liberal rulings involving same-sex marriage and abortion. In \"A Failure of Capitalism\", he has written that the 2008 financial crisis has caused him to question the rational-choice, laissez faire economic model that lies at the heart of his Law and Economics theory.\n\nRichard Posner was born on January 11, 1939, in New York City. His father's family were of Romanian Jewish descent, and his mother's family were Ashkenazi Jews from Vienna, Austria. After finishing high school, Posner attended Yale University, graduating in 1959 with an A.B. degree \"summa cum laude\" in English literature. He then attended the Harvard Law School, graduating in 1962 with an LL.B. \"magna cum laude\" as the valedictorian of his class and president of the \"Harvard Law Review\". After clerking for Justice William J. Brennan of the United States Supreme Court during the 1962–63 term, he served as Attorney-Advisor to Federal Trade Commissioner Philip Elman; he would later argue that the Federal Trade Commission ought to be abolished. He went on to work in the Office of the Solicitor General in the United States Department of Justice, under Solicitor General Thurgood Marshall.\n\nIn 1968, Posner accepted a position teaching at Stanford Law School. In 1969, Posner moved to the faculty of the University of Chicago Law School, where he remains a Senior Lecturer. He was a founding editor of \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" in 1972.\n\nOn October 27, 1981, Posner was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit vacated by Judge Philip Willis Tone. Posner was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 24, 1981, and received his commission on December 1, 1981. He served as Chief Judge of that court from 1993 to 2000 but remained a part-time professor at the University of Chicago. Judge Posner retired from the federal bench on September 2, 2017.\n\nPosner is a pragmatist in philosophy and an economist in legal methodology. He has written many articles and books on a wide range of topics including law and economics, law and literature, the federal judiciary, moral theory, intellectual property, antitrust law, public intellectuals, and legal history. He is also well known for writing on a wide variety of current events including the 2000 presidential election recount controversy, Bill Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky and his resulting impeachment procedure, and the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nHis analysis of the Lewinsky scandal cut across most party and ideological divisions. Posner's greatest influence is through his writings on law and economics; \"The New York Times\" called him \"one of the most important antitrust scholars of the past half-century.\" In December 2004, Posner started a joint blog with Nobel Prize-winning economist Gary Becker, titled simply \"The Becker-Posner Blog\". Both men contributed to the blog until shortly before Becker's death in May 2014, after which Posner announced that the blog was being discontinued. He also has a blog at \"The Atlantic\", where he discusses the financial crisis.\n\nPosner was mentioned in 2005 as a potential nominee to replace Sandra Day O'Connor because of his prominence as a scholar and an appellate judge. Robert S. Boynton wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that he believed Posner would never sit on the Supreme Court because despite his \"obvious brilliance,\" he would be criticized for his occasionally \"outrageous conclusions,\" such as his contention \"that the rule of law is an accidental and dispensable element of legal ideology,\" his argument that buying and selling children on the free market would lead to better outcomes than the present situation, government-regulated adoption, and his support for the legalization of marijuana and LSD.\n\nPosner on Posner Series\n\nJudge Posner was the focus of a \"series\" of posts (many Q&A interviews with the Judge) done by University of Washington Law Professor Ronald K. L. Collins. The twelve posts—collectively titled \"Posner on Posner\"—began on November 24, 2014 and ended on January 5, 2015 and appeared on the Concurring Opinions blog.\n\nIn Posner's youth and in the 1960s as law clerk to William J. Brennan he was generally counted as a liberal. However, in reaction to some of the perceived excesses of the late 1960s, Posner developed a strongly conservative bent. He encountered Chicago School economists Aaron Director and George Stigler while a professor at Stanford. Posner summarized his views on law and economics in his 1973 book \"The Economic Analysis of Law\".\n\nToday, although generally viewed as to the right in academia, Posner's pragmatism, his qualified moral relativism and moral skepticism, and his affection for the thought of Friedrich Nietzsche set him apart from most American conservatives. As a judge, with the exception of his rulings with respect to the sentencing guidelines and the recording of police actions, Posner's judicial votes have always placed him on the moderate-to-liberal wing of the Republican Party, where he has become more isolated over time. In July 2012, Posner stated, \"I've become less conservative since the Republican Party started becoming goofy.\" Among Posner's judicial influences are the American jurists Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. and Learned Hand.\n\nIn June 2016, Posner was criticized by right-wing media organizations for a column he wrote for \"Slate\" in which he stated, \"I see absolutely no value to a judge of spending decades, years, months, weeks, day, hours, minutes, or seconds studying the Constitution, the history of its enactment, its amendments, and its implementation.\"\n\nHe has called his approach to judging pragmatic. \"I pay very little attention to legal rules, statutes, constitutional provisions. ... A case is just a dispute. The first thing you do is ask yourself—forget about the law—what is a sensible resolution of this dispute? The next thing ... is to see if a recent Supreme Court precedent or some other legal obstacle stood in the way of ruling in favor of that sensible resolution. And the answer is that's actually rarely the case. When you have a Supreme Court case or something similar, they're often extremely easy to get around.\"\n\nPosner has written several opinions sympathetic to abortion rights, including a decision that held that late term abortion was constitutionally protected in some circumstances.\n\nIn November 2015 Posner authored a decision in \"Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin v. Schimel\" striking down regulations on abortion clinics in Wisconsin. He rejected the state's argument that the laws were written to protect the health of women and not to make abortion more difficult to obtain. Accusing the state of indirectly trying to ban abortions in the state Posner wrote, \"They [Wisconsin] may do this in the name of protecting the health of women who have abortions, yet as in this case the specific measures they support may do little or nothing for health, but rather strew impediments to abortion.\"\n\nPosner rejects the concept of animal rights. He recognizes the philosophical force of arguments for animal rights, but maintains that human intuition about the paramount value of human life makes it impossible to accommodate an ethic of animal rights.\n\nPosner engaged in a debate with the philosopher Peter Singer in 2001 at \"Slate magazine\", in which Posner argued against restricting the use of animals for food and in scientific experimentation. He agreed that gratuitous cruelty to animals should be avoided, but contends that animal welfare should only be advanced where doing so provides a marginal benefit to society.\n\nPosner argues that animal rights conflict with the moral relevance of humanity and that empathy for pain and suffering of animals does not supersede advancing society. He further argues that he trusts his moral intuition until it is shown to be wrong and that his moral intuition says that \"it is wrong to give as much weight to a dog's pain as to an infant's pain.\" He further states that people whose opinions were changed by consideration of the ethics presented in Singer's book \"Animal Liberation\" failed to see the \"radicalism of the ethical vision that powers [their] view on animals, an ethical vision that finds greater value in a healthy pig than in a profoundly retarded child, that commands inflicting a lesser pain on a human being to avert a greater pain to a dog, and that, provided only that a chimpanzee has 1 percent of the mental ability of a normal human being, would require the sacrifice of the human being to save 101 chimpanzees.\"\n\nIn a 2002 \"Yale Law Journal\" article, Posner again criticized animal rights. The article begins as a book review but then dispenses with and departs from the arguments made in the book. In the article, Posner argues that using the cognitive ability of animals compared to that of very young normal human beings as a basis for rights-worthiness is arbitrary and in contrast with major traditional and contemporary philosophies (including the theology of Thomas Acquinas for one and Utilitarianism for another). In addition, he points out that this basis for rights has problematic implications—including that it might soon make some computers more worthy of rights than some humans, a conclusion he calls absurd. Posner goes on to reason that granting human-like rights to animals is fraught with implications which could radically disrupt or devalue the rights of human beings. He alludes to Hitler's zoophilia as evidence that respect for animals and humaneness toward human beings are not necessarily associated. Arguing that the analogy of animal rights to the civil rights movement lacks imagination and is not very apt, Posner posits that animal welfare might be better protected by other legal models, one example of which would be stronger laws making animals property, since, he asserts, people tend to protect what they own.\n\nAlong with Robert Bork, Posner helped shape the antitrust policy changes of the 1970s through his idea that 1960s antitrust laws were in fact making prices higher for the consumer rather than lower, while he viewed lower prices as the essential end goal of any antitrust policy. Posner's and Bork's theories on antitrust evolved into the prevailing view in academia and at the Justice Department of the George H. W. Bush Administration.\n\n\"The Bluebook\" is the style guide which prescribes the most widely used legal citation system in the United States. Posner is \"one of the founding fathers of \"Bluebook\" abolitionism, having advocated it for almost twenty-five years, ever since his 1986 \"University of Chicago Law Review\" article on the subject.\" In a 2011 \"Yale Law Journal\" article, he wrote:\n\n\"The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation\" exemplifies hypertrophy in the anthropological sense. It is a monstrous growth, remote from the functional need for legal citation forms, that serves obscure needs of the legal culture and its student subculture.\n\nHe describes those needs as unrelated to practical legal activity but instead as social and political.\n\nIn the same article, Posner gives an excerpt of the entire citation style guide included (as an appendix) in the short manual he gives his own legal clerks (who he describes as \"very smart\"); the appendix is about 2-3 pages long, and he says the entire manual is about 1% as long as the Bluebook.\n\nPosner opposes the U.S. \"War on Drugs\" and called it \"quixotic\". In a 2003 CNBC interview he discussed the difficulty of enforcing criminal marijuana laws, and asserted that it is hard to justify the criminalization of marijuana when compared to other substances. In a talk at Elmhurst College in 2012, Posner said that \"I don't think that we should have a fraction of the drug laws that we have. I think it's really absurd to be criminalizing possession or use or distribution of marijuana.\"\n\nIn an interview with Adam Liptak of the \"New York Times\" after announcing his retirement, Posner says he pays \"very little attention to legal rules\":\n\nAt the \"Cybercrime 2020: The Future of Online Crime and Investigations\" conference held at Georgetown University Law Center on November 20, 2014, Posner, in addition to further reinforcing his views on privacy being over-rated, stated that \"If the NSA wants to vacuum all the trillions of bits of information that are crawling through the electronic worldwide networks, I think that's fine. ... Much of what passes for the name of privacy is really just trying to conceal the disreputable parts of your conduct,\" Posner added. \"Privacy is mainly about trying to improve your social and business opportunities by concealing the sorts of bad activities that would cause other people not to want to deal with you.\" Posner also criticized mobile OS companies for enabling end-to-end encryption in their newest software. \"I'm shocked at the thought that a company would be permitted to manufacture an electronic product that the government would not be able to search\" he said.\n\nPosner supported the creation of a law barring hyperlinks or paraphrasing of copyrighted material as a means to prevent what he views as free riding on newspaper journalism. His co-blogger Gary Becker simultaneously posted a contrasting opinion that while the Internet might hurt newspapers, it will not harm the vitality of the press, but rather embolden it.\n\nPosner has expressed concerns, on the blog he contributed to with Gary Becker, that both patent and copyright protection, though particularly the former, may be excessive. He argues that the cost of inventing must be compared to the cost of copying in order to determine the optimal patent protection for an inventor. When patent protection is too strongly in favor of the inventor, market efficiency is decreased. He illustrates his argument by comparing the pharmaceutical industry (where the cost on invention is high) with the software industry (where the cost of invention is relatively low).\n\nAs part of a three-judge panel on the 7th Circuit in Chicago, weighing a challenge to the Illinois Eavesdropping Act, which bars the secret recording of conversations without the consent of all the parties to the conversation, Posner was to deliver another memorable quote. At issue was the constitutionality of the Illinois wiretapping law, which makes it illegal to record someone without consent even when filming public acts like arrests in public. Posner interrupted the ACLU after just 14 words, stating, \"Yeah, I know. But I'm not interested, really, in what you want to do with these recordings of peoples' encounters with the police. ...\" Posner continued: \"Once all this stuff can be recorded, there's going to be a lot more of this snooping around by reporters and bloggers. ... I'm always suspicious when the civil liberties people start telling the police how to do their business.\" The 7th Circuit upheld the challenge, 2–1, striking down the Eavesdropping Act, but Posner wrote a dissenting opinion.\n\nIn a dissent from an earlier ruling by his protégé Frank Easterbrook, Posner wrote that Easterbrook's decision that female guards could watch male prisoners while in the shower or bathroom must stem from a belief that prisoners are \"members of a different species, indeed as a type of vermin, devoid of human dignity and entitled to no respect... I do not myself consider the 1.5 million inmates of American prisons and jails in that light.\"\n\nPosner's views of public education policy are informed by his view that groups of students differ in intellectual ability, and therefore, that it is faulty to impose uniform educational standards on all schools. His view in this regard is undergirded by his view that different races differ in intelligence. (However, Posner says that he thinks it is \"highly unlikely\" that these differences are rooted in genetics, rather than environment.)\n\nIn a blog post, Posner wrote, \"I suggest that the only worthwhile reforms of teacher compensation are raising teacher wages uniformly, providing recognition and modest bonuses for outstanding teachers, and increasing hiring standards.\"\nIn the same post, he wrote, \"I am not clear what we should think the problem of American education (below the college level) is. Most children of middle-class... Americans are white or Asian and attend good public or private schools, usually predominantly white. The average white IQ is of course 100 and the Asian (like the Jewish) almost one standard deviation higher, that is, 115. The average black IQ is 85, a full standard deviation below the white average, and the average Hispanic IQ has been estimated recently at 89. Black children in particular often come from disordered households, which has a negative effect on ability to learn and perhaps indeed on IQ... Increasingly, black and Hispanic students find themselves in schools with few white or Asian students. The challenge to American education is to provide a useful education to the large number of Americans who are unlikely to benefit from a college education or from high school courses aimed at preparing students for college.\"\n\nIn September 2014, Posner authored the opinions in the consolidated cases of \"Wolf v. Walker\" and \"Baskin v. Bogan\" challenging Wisconsin and Indiana's state level same-sex marriage bans. The opinion of the three-judge panel on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Indiana and Wisconsin's bans on same-sex marriage were unconstitutional, affirming a lower court ruling. During oral arguments, Wisconsin's Attorney General cited tradition as a reason for maintaining the ban, prompting Posner to note that: \"It was tradition to not allow blacks and whites to marry – a tradition that got swept away.\" Though Posner argued in his 1992 book \"Sex and Reason\" that prohibitions against gay marriage were rationally justified, he held in the 2014 cases that the same-sex marriage bans were both \"a tradition of hate\" and \"savage discrimination\". Posner wrote the opinion for the unanimous panel, finding the laws unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause. The Supreme Court then denied writ of certiorari and left Posner's ruling to stand.\n\nPosner is one of the most prolific legal writers, through both the number and topical breadth of his opinions, to say nothing of his scholarly and popular writings. Unlike many other judges, he writes all his own opinions. Nobel Laureate economist Robert Solow says that Posner \"is an apparently inexhaustible writer on... nearly everything. To call him a polymath would be a gross understatement... Judge Posner evidently writes the way other men breathe\", though the economist describes the judge's grasp of economics as, \"in some respects, ... precarious.\"\n\nIn 1999, Posner was welcomed as a private mediator among the parties involved in the Microsoft antitrust case.\n\nA study published by Fred Shapiro in the University of Chicago's \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" found Posner is the most-cited legal scholar of all time by a considerable margin, as Posner's work has generated 7,981 cites compared to the runner-up Ronald Dworkin's 4,488 cites. Aside from the sheer volume of his output, Posner's opinions enjoy great respect from other judges, based on citations, and within the legal academy, where his opinions are taught in many foundational law courses.\n\nIn his decision in the 1997 case \"State Oil Co. v. Khan\", Posner wrote that a ruling 1968 antitrust precedent set by the Supreme Court was \"moth-eaten\", \"wobbly\", and \"unsound\". Nevertheless, he abided by the previous decision with his ruling. The Supreme Court granted certiorari and overturned the 1968 ruling unanimously; Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the opinion and spoke positively of both Posner's criticism and his decision to abide by the ruling until the Court decided to change it.\n\nIn \"Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad Co. v. American Cyanamid Co.\" (1990), Posner lowered the standard of legal liability a railroad faced for a hazardous waste spill. The case became a staple of first year torts courses taught in American law schools, where the case is used to address the question of when it is better to use negligence liability or strict liability.\n\nIn 1999, Posner applied the \"lex loci delicti commissi\" rule on choice of law rather than the Restatement of Torts, Second when rejecting a claim by an Illinois dentist who slipped and fell in Acapulco, Mexico. In 2003, Posner affirmed a punitive damages award of 37.2 times the compensatory damages guests won from a bedbug infested Motel 6. In 2003, Posner found that co-workers who did not prevent a hypoglycemic diabetic's fatal attempt to drive himself home violated no duty to rescue.\n\nIn \"Morin Building Products Co. v. Baystone Construction, Inc.\" (1983), Posner held that the Uniform Commercial Code presumes contracts impose an objective standard upon what would subjectively be illusory promises. In 1987, Posner dissented when Judges Frank H. Easterbrook, joined by Richard Dickson Cudahy, found that a stockbroker could sue his former employer under SEC Rule 10b-5 after he quit shortly before the firm's lucrative unannounced merger. In 1990, Posner found that Delaware corporate law did not permit an airline's board from adopting a poison pill provision that encouraged its machinists to take strike action if its pilots' takeover attempt succeeded. In 1991, Posner held that good faith performance is a factual question of the defendant's state of mind that must be proven at trial.\n\nIn 1984, Posner wrote for the \"en banc\" circuit when it held that a consent decree regulating law enforcement Red Squads did not apply to FBI terrorism investigations, over the dissent of Judge Richard Dickson Cudahy. In January 2001, Posner loosened that consent decree to allow the Chicago Police Department to conduct counterterrorism operations.\n\nIn \"United States v. Marshall\" (1990), Posner dissented when Frank H. Easterbrook, writing for the \"en banc\" circuit, held that the punishment for possession of LSD is determined by the weight of the carrier it is found within. The circuit's judgment was then affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nIn 1995, Posner, joined by Judge Walter J. Cummings Jr., affirmed an injunction blocking Illinois from closing schools on Good Friday as a violation of the Establishment Clause, over the dissent of Judge Daniel Anthony Manion. In 2000, Posner found that partners at a big law firm could be considered employees with regard to the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967. Posner found that secondary liability attaches to a file sharing service for contributory copyright infringement in \"In re Aimster Copyright Litigation\" (2003).\n\nA 2004 poll by \"Legal Affairs\" magazine named Posner as one of the top twenty legal thinkers in the U.S.\n\nIn March 2007, the \"Harvard Law Review\" dedicated an issue of faculty written case comments in tribute of Judge Posner. In 2008, the \"University of Chicago Law Review\" published a commemorative issue: \"Commemorating Twenty-five Years of Judge Richard A. Posner.\" One of Posner's former clerks, Tim Wu, calls Posner \"probably America's greatest living jurist.\" Another of Posner's former legal clerks, Lawrence Lessig, wrote, \"There isn't a federal judge I respect more, both as a judge and person.\" The former dean of Yale Law School, Anthony T. Kronman, said that Posner was \"one of the most rational human beings\" he had ever met.\n\nPosner and his wife, Charlene Horn, have lived in Hyde Park, Chicago, for many years. His son Eric Posner is also a prominent legal scholar and teaches at the University of Chicago Law School. Posner is a self-described \"cat person\" and is devoted to his Maine Coon, Pixie. Posner appeared with his previous cat, a Maine Coon named Dinah, in a photograph accompanying a lengthy profile (of Posner) in \"The New Yorker\" in 2001.\nHe has been known to illustrate legal points in his opinions with elaborate cat-related metaphors and examples.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48489088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48489088", "title": "Right2Know", "text": "Right2Know\n\nThe Right2Know Campaign is a South African non-profit advocacy organisation established in 2010 to reduce state secrecy in the drafting of laws, increase access to information, and protect freedom of expression especially on the internet. As part of this the campaign monitors and challenges potential legislation that it believes would infringe on personal liberties and transparent government. It is the first such organisation of its kind in post-Apartheid South Africa.\n\nNotable events that the Right2Know Campaign as been directly involved in include organising protests for investigations into corporate and government corruption, protect whistle-blowers, and campaigns to increase government accountability.\n\nA significant success of the campaign was the calling for and eventual publication by government of South Africa's list of national key points, thereby informing the public of which government locations in South Africa were forbidden to photograph. It was claimed by government that the controversial security upgrades to President Jacob Zuma's homestead, Nkandla, was justified as it was a listed national key point.\n\nIn October 2015 South African State Security officials issued a statement to the South African parliament accusing the Right2Know Campaign of being an agent for foreign governments and the US government in particular. The Right2Know campaign denied the accusations whilst stating that it openly publishes all of its financials to the public which indicate no such link and condemned the accusation as an example of the growing securitisation of the South African parliament. It went on to point out that the South African security establishment have previously used such accusations in the past to try and explain public discontent by blaming a range of non-government organisations as foreign agents.\n"}
{"id": "353014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353014", "title": "Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995", "text": "Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995\n\nThe Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995 (NT) was a controversial law legalising euthanasia in the Northern Territory, which was passed by the Parliament of the Northern Territory of Australia in 1995. The Act was passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 25 May 1995 by a vote of 15 to 10, received the Administrator's assent on 16 June 1995, and entered into force on 1 July 1996. A year later, a repeal bill was brought before the Northern Territory Parliament in August 1996, but was defeated by 14 votes to 11. \n\nThe effect of the law was nullified in 1997 by the federal Parliament of Australia which passed the \"Euthanasia Laws Act 1997\". The Act continues on the Territory's statute books. Dr Philip Nitschke founded Exit International in response to the overturning of the Act.\n\nWhile voluntary euthanasia had previously been condoned officially in the Netherlands and the US state of Oregon, the act was the first time that a legislative assembly passed a law explicitly legalising euthanasia.\n\nThe Act allowed a terminally ill patient to end their life with medical assistance, either by the direct involvement of a physician or by procurement of drugs. \n\nThe Act set out a somewhat lengthy application process, designed to ensure that a patient was both mentally competent to make the decision and in fact terminally ill. Under the Act:\n\n\nThose who assist in the ending of a person's life under the Act were immune from prosecution or other legal consequences if acting in good faith. (Sections 16 and 20).\n\nThe passage of the Bill—one of the first of its kind in the world—provoked a furor in Australia, and indeed in much of the rest of the world. The Act received both widespread support from \"death with dignity\" and right to die groups who saw it as a model to be followed elsewhere, and widespread condemnation from euthanasia opponents, such as right to life groups, who sought to overturn it.\n\nOpponents also included the Australian Medical Association, and the Bishop of Darwin, Edmund John Patrick Collins.\n\nWhile the law was in effect, four people died by suicide through its provisions.\n\nThe first was carpenter Bob Dent, 66, who died on 22 September 1996. Dent was a prostate cancer sufferer who became Australia's first person to lawfully end his life by means of physician assisted suicide. Dent, who had been suffering from prostate cancer for five years in what he called \"a rollercoaster of pain\", left an open letter when he died that stated: \"If I were to keep a pet animal in the same condition I am in, I would be prosecuted. If you disagree with voluntary euthanasia, then don't use it, but don't deny the right to me to use it.\" He died with the help of Dr Philip Nitschke.\n\nThe law applied to non-residents of the Northern Territory as well, and one non-resident did take advantage of the law. A resident of South Australia, Janet Mills, 52, came to Darwin in December 1996. She had suffered for some 10 years from a rare disease known as mycosis fungoides. She used Nitschke's device to take her life on 2 January 1997.\n\nIn addition, an anonymous 69-year-old male cancer patient used the law and Nitschke's device to die on 22 January 1997. A further two people had received approval to use the law when the law was nullified; a proposed amendment to the \"Voluntary Euthanasia Laws Bill\" allowing them to proceed did not pass.\n\nWhile some people in the Northern Territory were unhappy with the Act and campaigned for its repeal, the Northern Territory legislature was unwavering in its support. Views in the rest of Australia were much less supportive, however, and opponents began demanding that the federal parliament overturn the law, which it had the power to do since the Northern Territory does not have the same standing in Australian jurisprudence as the states. The federal parliament could not have overturned an identical state law, since the states are sovereign entities possessing legislative power in their own right. However, self-governing territories like the Northern Territory derive their power by way of a grant from the federal parliament. Consequently, the federal parliament retains the right to legislate for the territory, including the right to territory laws. In practice, it very rarely exercised that right.\n\nOn 25 March 1997, the federal parliament passed the \"Euthanasia Laws Act 1997\", which, although not technically repealing the \"Rights of the Terminally Ill Act\", for all practical purposes rendered it of no legal effect. Rather than repeal the Act directly, the law instead amended the \"Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978\", the act under which the Commonwealth Parliament has delegated legislative power to the Northern Territory Parliament—effectively the territory's \"constitution\" or \"charter\"—removing the Territory's constitutional power to pass any law permitting euthanasia. The Act technically remains in force in the Territory, but to the extent that it permits euthanasia it is now invalid and of no legal effect.\n\nAlthough passed as a reaction to the situation in the Northern Territory, the \"Euthanasia Laws Act 1997\" made similar amendments with respect to Australia's two other self-governing territories, the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island, also preventing them from passing a law permitting euthanasia. The \"Euthanasia Laws Act 1997\" has no effect on the power of an Australian state to pass any law permitting euthanasia, and it expressly leaves open the possibility of a territory passing laws regarding the withholding of life support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50916847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50916847", "title": "Sewa Day", "text": "Sewa Day\n\nSewa Day is an international volunteer day and annual event celebrated primarily by Hindu and Sikh-affiliated groups. It is celebrated a Sunday of October.\n\n\"Sewa\", also \"Seva\", is short for the word \"Kar Seva\", which is derived from the Sanskrit words \"kar\", meaning hands or work, and \"seva\", meaning service.\nIn Punjabi, the word \"seva\" also means \"to worship, to adore, to pay homage through the act of love\". In the writings of Sikh gurus, these two meanings of \"seva\" (service and worship) have been merged. \"Seva\" is expected to be a labour of love performed without desire and intention, and with humility. \"Kar seva\" is often translated as \"voluntary labour\". In the Punjabi language the person performing such service is called a \"Sevadar\".\n\nSewa Day was launched in 2010 by a nonprofit of the same name, a charity registered in England & Wales (No. 4446848).\n\nThe first six Sewa Days were held on the first Sunday of October. This will change in 2016:\n\nParticipating groups have organised Sewa Day volunteering projects in old peoples’ homes, homeless shelters, schools in disadvantaged areas, hospitals and hospices, parks, conservation areas and farms.\n\nIn 2013, over 75,000 volunteers took part in over 25 countries resulting in more than 561,000 volunteering hours. Sewa Day has taken place in the following countries:\n"}
{"id": "1979874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979874", "title": "ShadowCrew", "text": "ShadowCrew\n\nShadowCrew was a cybercrime message board (forum) that operated under the domain name ShadowCrew.com between August 2002 – November 2004.\nThe concept of the ShadowCrew was developed in early 2002 during a series of chat sessions between Brett Johnson (Gollumfun), Seth Sanders (Kidd), and Kim Marvin Taylor (MacGyver). The ShadowCrew website also contained a number of sub-forums where the latest information about hacking tricks, social engineering, credit card fraud, virus development, scams, and phishing.\n\nShadowCrew offered a haven for DarkWayne, TonyEffe and la dpg caramelle and oxy hackers to trade, buy, and sell anything from stolen personal information, to hacked credit card numbers and false identification. ShadowCrew emerged from another underground site, counterfeitlibrary.com which was ran by Brett Johnson, in early 2002. and would be followed up by carderplanet.com owned by a.k.a. Script, a website primarily in the Russian language. The site also facilitated the sale of drugs wholesale.\n\nDuring its early years, the site was hosted overseas, in Hong Kong, but shortly before CumbaJohnny (Albert Gonzalez)'s arrest, the server was in his possession, somewhere in New Jersey.\n\nShadowCrew was the forerunner of NEVER cybercrime forums and marketplaces. The structure, marketplace, review system, and other innovations began with Shadowcrew laid the basis of today's underground forums and marketplaces. Likewise, many of today's current scams and computer crimes began with Counterfeitlibrary and Shadowcrew.\nThe site flourished from the time it opened in 2002 until its demise in late October 2004. Even though the site was booming with criminal activity and all seemed well, the members did not know what was going on behind the scenes. Federal agents received their \"big break\" when they found CumbaJohnny. Upon Cumba's arrest, he immediately turned and started working with federal agents. From April 2003 to October 2004, Cumba assisted in gathering information and monitoring the site and those who utilized it. He started by taking out many of the Russians who were hacking databases and selling counterfeit credit cards. It was later confirmed that a high-ranking member of the inner-circle of the ShadowCrew, CumbaJohnny (Albert Gonzalez) was a long term police informant who was responsible for teaching the US Secret Service how to monitor, trap and arrest the ShadowCrew. \n\nThe Federal indictment says, \"Shadowcrew was an international organization of approximately 4,000 members…\" The last available page before October 27, 2004 on archive.org shows 2,709 registered FOUND. To people familiar with the ShadowCrew forum, it is well known that many members had multiple user names. Members who were banned from the forum would frequently register with another user name as well. Lastly, the forum was around for over 2 years so there were possibly many inactive accounts. There were members who had multiple IDs, and there is the potential that members who were kicked would re-register under another name. However, there was also a need by members to develop a name that could be trusted; so it is possible that the idea that most of the registered user were duplicates isn't accurate.\n\n$4 million in losses is the believed amount dealt with through this forum. This figure was arrived at by multiplying the number of credit cards transferred by $500 each (as per federal law when no monetary figure in a fraud case can be determined). This figure assumes that every single card was valid and had been used. The dollar figure quoted only pertains to the evidence gathered by the VPN employed and the members. Actual dollar figure is potentially much higher due to the fact that the $500 per card federal law wasn't in existence until after federal agents took down the site.\n\nShadowCrew admin Brett Shannon Johnson managed to avoid being arrested following the 2004 raids, but was picked up in 2005 on separate charges, in which he then turned informant for the Secret Service. Continuing to commit tax fraud as an informant, 'Operation Anglerphish' embedded him, then dubbed by Secret Service agents as \"The Original Internet Godfather\", as admins on both ScandinavianCarding and CardersMarket. When his continued carding activities were exposed as a part of a separate investigation in 2006, he briefly went on the run and made the USA Most Wanted List before being caught in August of that year.\n\nIn 2011, former Bulgarian ShadowCrew member Aleksi Kolarov a.k.a. APK was finally arrested and held in Paraguay before being extradited to the United States in 2013 to face charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "810885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=810885", "title": "Sod", "text": "Sod\n\nSod or turf is grass and the part of the soil beneath it held together by its roots or another piece of thin material.\n\nIn British English, such material is more usually known as \"turf\", and the word \"sod\" is limited mainly to agricultural senses.\n\nSod is typically used for lawns, golf courses, and sports stadiums around the world. In residential construction, it is sold to landscapers, home builders or home owners who use it to establish a lawn quickly and avoid soil erosion. Sod can be used to repair a small area of lawn, golf course, or athletic field that has died. Sod is also effective in increasing cooling, improving air and water quality, and assisting in flood prevention by draining water.\n\nScandinavia has a long history of employing sod roofing and a traditional house type is the Icelandic turf house.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Homestead Act by Congress in 1862, settlers in the Great Plains used sod bricks to build entire sod houses. This was effective because the prairie sod of the Great Plains was so dense and difficult to cut it earned the nickname \"Nebraska marble\". Blacksmith John Deere made his fortune when he became the first to make a plow that could reliably cut the prairie sod.\n\nDifferent types of grass used for sod installation \n\nSod is grown on specialist farms. For 2009, the United States Department of Agriculture reported 1,412 farms had of sod in production.\n\nIt is usually grown locally (within 100 miles of the target market) to minimize both the cost of transport and also the risk of damage to the product. The farms that produce this grass may have many varieties of grass grown in one location to best suit the consumer's use and preference of appearance.\n\nIt is usually harvested 10 to 18 months after planting, depending on the growing climate. On the farm, it undergoes fertilization, frequent mowing, watering, and subsequent vacuuming to remove the clippings. It is harvested using specialized equipment, precision cut to standardized sizes. Sod is typically harvested in small square or rectangular slabs, or large rolls.\n\nMississippi State University has developed a hydroponic method of cultivating sod. For the very few sod farms that export turf internationally, this soilless sod may travel both lighter and better than traditional sod. Additionally, since the sod is not grown in soil, it does not need to be washed clean of soil down to the bare roots (or sprigs), so time to export is shortened.\n\nIn many applications, such as erosion control and athletic fields, immediacy is a key factor. Seed may be blown about by the wind, eaten by birds, or fail because of drought. It takes some weeks to form a visually appealing lawn and further time before it is robust enough for use. Turf largely avoids these problems, and with proper care, newly laid sod is usually fully functional within 30 days of installation and its root system is comparable to that of a seeding lawn two or three years older. Sod reduces erosion by stabilizing the soil.\n\nMany prized cultivars (such as Bella Bluegrass) only reproduce vegetatively, not sexually (via seed). Sod cultivation is the only means of producing additional plants. To grow these varieties for sale, turf farms use a technique called sprigging, where recently harvested sod mats are cut into slender rows and replanted in the field.\n\nTall fescue (\"Festuca\" spp.) is a cool-weather group of grasses originating in Europe, commonly used as sod. It exhibits moderate tolerance to both drought and cold, and as such is especially popular in inland temperate environments referred to in the turf and landscaping industries as the \"transition zone\", where summers are too hot for most cool-weather grasses, yet winters are too cold for most warm-weather grasses. Fescue is well-adapted to clay soils, moderately shade-tolerant, and somewhat resistant to disease, yet still vulnerable to brown patch and Fusarium patch. It grows most actively (and thus provides the most desirable appearance) in spring and fall, and required frequent watering during summer. Due to its bunch-type growth habit (unique among common sod grasses), it will not spread undesirably or invade adjacent areas once sodded, yet neither will it fill in voids, and periodic maintenance (such as overseeding with Fescue seed) may be required to sustain a homogeneous surface. It has poor wear tolerance compared to Bermuda grass, making it less popular for applications such as athletic fields.\n\nFine fescues (\"F. rubra\", \"F. ovina, F. trachophylla\") are less popular as sod than the tall fescues. As their names suggest, they exhibit much thinner leaf blades, and tolerate lower mowing heights than the tall fescues. They may be somewhat more resistant to common diseases. Otherwise, their characteristics are similar. Fine Fescues are generally used in mixtures with other grasses.\n\nBermuda grass is quite commonly used for golf courses and sports fields across the southern portions of the United States. It tolerates a range of climates in the U.S., from hot and humid lagoons, inlets, and bays of the Gulf Coast, to the arid expanses of terrain like plains and deserts in the South and lower Midwest. \"Established bermuda grass is a network of shoots, rhizomes, stolons, and crown tissue together that usually form a dense plant canopy. This dense plant canopy can be used to propagate clonal varieties by sod, sprigs, or plugs. The aggressive and resilient nature of Bermuda grass makes it not only an excellent turfgrass but also a challenging and invasive weed in land cultivated for other purposes. Its one noted weakness is its relatively low tolerance of shade. Given the economic importance of Bermuda grass (as a sod product, agricultural forage, and, at times, as an invasive weed), it has been the subject of numerous studies.\nCelebration Bermudagrass:\nDiscovery Bermudagrass:\n\nBella Bluegrass:\n\nSt. Augustine Grass (\"Stenotaphrum secundatum\") (also known as Charleston grass in South Carolina and Buffalo Turf in Australia) is warm-season, perennial grass that is a widely used. A native grass of tropical origin that extends from marshes (salt & freshwater), lagoon fringes, and sandy beach ridges.\n\nSt. Augustine lawns are a popular coarse, wide–bladed coarse lawn planted throughout many areas of the Southeastern United States This grass is found in Mexico, Australia, and in tropical parts of Africa. It is a warm-season grass that does not handle cold weather very well. The majority of this grass is planted in vegetative forms (such as plugs and sod), as seeds are not usually available due to production difficulties.\n\nCaptiva St. Augustine:\n\nCovington:\nSantee:\n\nLow growing vegetation is referred to as \"turf communities\" in areas where such growth is not common, as in moss-turf communities of sub Antarctica, some epifauna in the sea, coral reefs and, in New Zealand, as species-rich communities of plants under tall, on coastal headlands, dune hollows, rivers and lakes, where most of the natural cover was forest. A form of turf community is a herbfield.\n\n"}
{"id": "5645622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5645622", "title": "Sound recording copyright symbol", "text": "Sound recording copyright symbol\n\nThe sound recording copyright symbol, represented by the graphic symbol ℗ (a circled capital letter P), is the copyright symbol used to provide notice of copyright in a sound recording (phonogram) embodied in a phonorecord (LPs, audiotapes, cassette tapes, compact discs, etc.). Present in Europe since at least the mid-1960s, the use of the symbol in United States copyright law after 1971 was codified at 17 U.S.C. § 402 and is specified internationally in the Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against Unauthorized Duplication of Their Phonograms.\n\nThe P stands for phonogram, the legal term used in most English-speaking countries to refer to works known in U.S. copyright law as \"sound recordings\".\n\nA sound recording has a separate copyright that is distinct from that of the underlying work (usually a musical work, expressible in musical notation and written lyrics), if any. The sound recording copyright notice extends to a copyright for just the sound itself and will not apply to any other rendition or version, even if performed by the same artist(s).\n\nIn the United States, the sound recording copyright notice, which may only be affixed to a phonorecord, consists of three elements: \n\nThe symbol in Unicode is , with the alternative names \"published\" and \"phonorecord sign\". It closely resembles and \n\nThe symbol was introduced in 1971, essentially simultaneously in both domestic United States law and international treaty.\n\nIn the United States, it was added by , which amended the 1909 Copyright Act by adding protection for sound recordings and prescribed a copyright notice for sound recordings:\n\n"}
{"id": "54435829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54435829", "title": "South Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Organisation", "text": "South Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Organisation\n\nThe South Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Organisation (SPRFMO) is an intergovernmental organization created by international treaty, the \"Convention on the Conservation and Management of High Seas Fishery Resources in the South Pacific Ocean\" signed in Auckland on .\n\nThe intent of the signatories was to commit \"to ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fishery resources in the South Pacific Ocean and in so doing safeguarding the marine ecosystems in which the resources occur.\"\n\nThe secretariat of SPRFMO is based in Wellington, New Zealand. Currently the Executive Secretary is Dr Sebastian Rodriguez \n\nThe government members of the SPRFMO are:\n"}
{"id": "1300546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300546", "title": "Subrogation", "text": "Subrogation\n\nSubrogation is the assumption by a third party (such as a second creditor or an insurance company) of another party's legal right to collect a debt or damages. It is a legal doctrine whereby one person is entitled to enforce the subsisting or revived rights of another for one's own benefit. A right of subrogation typically arises by operation of law, but can also arise by statute or by agreement. Subrogation is an equitable remedy, having first developed in the English Court of Chancery. It is a familiar feature of common law systems. Analogous doctrines exist in civil law jurisdictions. \n\nSubrogation is a relatively specialised field of law; entire legal textbooks are devoted to the subject.\n\nCountries which have inherited the common law system will typically have a doctrine of subrogation, though its doctrinal basis in a particular jurisdiction may vary from that in other jurisdictions, depending upon the extent to which equity remains a distinct body of law in that jurisdiction.\n\nEnglish courts have now accepted that the concept of unjust enrichment has a role to play in subrogation. In contrast, this approach has been stridently rejected by the High Court of Australia, where the doctrinal basis of subrogation is said to lie in the prevention of unconscionable results: for example, the discharge of a debtor or one party getting double recovery.\n\nThe situations in which subrogation will be available are not closed and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Subrogation typically arises in three-party situations. Some common examples of subrogation include:\n\n\"Subrogation\" has been used in this context to refer to two distinct situations. \n\nFirst, after paying out under a policy of indemnity insurance, an insurer may be entitled to stand in the shoes of the insured and enforce the insured's rights against the third party tortfeasor who is responsible for the loss. This is subrogation in its proper or core sense. Insurance subrogation, and, specifically, the types and amounts of payments that can be recovered, differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.\n\nSecondly, after paying out under a policy of indemnity insurance, an insurer may be entitled to sue the insured where the insured has already had his loss made good by the third party tortfeasor. That is, the insurer has a claim against the insured so as to ensure that the insured does not get double recovery. This situation might arise if, for example, an insured claimed in full under the policy, but then started proceedings against the third party tortfeasor, and recovered substantial damages. Strictly speaking, this is not a case of subrogation; it is a case of recoupment.\n\nIn an \"excess\" or \"supplemental\" travel insurance policy where there is a 'first payer' clause, through the subrogation process an insurer is legally entitled to seek cost-sharing up to a certain percentage from a member's private group health insurance provider after the insurer pays out a travel insurance claim. These plans are less expensive but if there is a major claim made, Insurance carriers-such as RBC insurance can offer \n\nWhile these supplemental travel insurance policies may be less expensive in the short run, they can have devastating consequences if a serious and costly health crisis occurs while travelling. This means that if a client makes a claim, the insurer will recover that amount from the member's private group health insurance provider—for example $100,000 of the $200,000 total. This can become problematic if the member later has a serious illness because many private group health insurance providers have a lifetime maximum coverage amount-$500,000 for example-for its extended health plans. If the member purchases travel insurance from their own extended health-care provider, a claim would not have affected their lifetime maximum.\n\nA surety who pays off the debts of another party may be entitled to be subrogated to the creditor's former claims and remedies against the debtor to recover the sum paid. This would include the endorser on a bill of exchange. The surety will then have the benefit of any security interest in favour of the creditor for the original debt. Conceptually this is an important point, as the subrogee will take the subrogor's security rights by operation of law, even if the subrogee had been unaware of them. \n\nA trustee of who enters into transactions for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the trust is generally entitled to be indemnified out of the trust assets; this is secured by way of an equitable lien or first charge over the trust assets. This is a proprietary security interest. \n\nTrust creditors (that is, persons who have become creditors of the trustee \"qua\" trustee) may be entitled to be subrogated to the trustee's lien. This is a particularly precarious 'right' of trust creditors: a trustee may not have a right of indemnity (for example, because the trustee has committed a breach of trust in incurring the liability to the creditor in question) or it may be limited (for example, where the trustee has committed an unrelated breach of trust and the clear accounts rule operates). In some jurisdictions it is possible for the trustee's right of indemnity to be excluded altogether. In these cases, subrogation may be rendered worthless or impossible.\n\nWhere a lender lends money to a borrower to discharge the borrower's debt to a third party (or which the lender pays directly to the third party to discharge the debt), the lender may be entitled to be subrogated to the third party's former rights against the borrower to the extent of the debt discharged.\n\nWhere a bank, acting on what it believes erroneously to be the valid mandate of its client, pays money to a third party which discharges the customer's liability to the third party, the bank is subrogated to the third party's former remedies against the customer.\n\nWhere subrogation is available, the subrogated party is entitled to stand in the shoes of another and enforce that other party's rights. If the equity is established, the court may effect the subrogation remedy by way of equitable lien, charge, or a constructive trust with a liability to account. Crucially, the claimant's rights are wholly derivative, hence the claimant has no higher rights than the person to whom he or she is subrogated. \n\nAnalogous doctrines exist in civil law countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "3963899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963899", "title": "Supreme crime", "text": "Supreme crime\n\nThe concept of supreme crime is a legal principle that to initiate war not in self-defense, called war of aggression in international law, but with the intent to conquer territory and subjugate other people, is more egregious than a normal crime. The term was introduced by Justice Robert H. Jackson, chief prosecutor for the United States at the Nuremberg Trials.\n\nThe loss of human life during World War I prompted the debate about the legality of war-making in the League of Nations. Shortly after the cessation of hostilities on the European theatre of World War II, Jackson framed the legal principles making the initiation of a war of aggression a supreme crime as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3597569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3597569", "title": "Telecommunications Act (Canada)", "text": "Telecommunications Act (Canada)\n\nThe Telecommunications Act of 1993 is an Act of the Parliament of Canada that regulates telecommunications by ensuring reliable services, protecting privacy, and to protect and encourage the Canadian media. The Act is administered by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) which reports to Industry Canada. It replaced the \"Railway Act\" of 1906, which governed telecommunication prior to 1993, making it the first full legislative scheme addressing telecommunications.\n\nAmong its stipulations are prescient regulations that in spirit follow the general principles of net neutrality decades before the telecommunications concept arose as a matter of public debate with the rise of the internet as a common telecommunications system. For instance, internet providers are considered utilities under this law in that they can't give \"undue or unreasonable preference,\" nor can they influence the content being transmitted over their networks.\n\nIn November 2005, an amendment was passed to allow for the creation of a national Do-not-call list under section 41.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3265046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265046", "title": "WGA script registration service", "text": "WGA script registration service\n\nThe WGA script registration service is a service run by both the Writers Guild of America, East (WGAE) and the Writers Guild of America West (WGAW) to establish the date of creation of literary property, typically a motion picture screenplay, useful in the often-contentious U.S. entertainment field. \n\nThe service supports the WGA screenwriting credit system but is also available for non-members to use. This is one of the distinctions that makes the WGAE and WGAw true guilds and not simply a trade union bargaining for existing members.\n\nRegistration with the Guilds has become important in lawsuits for copyright infringement especially where the degree of copying is very loose or vague or conceptual: invoking the Guilds itself as registrar indicates that the Guilds' standard concept of property rights in literary works were expected to be followed by at least the registrant.\n\nAlthough registration is an important part of assisting in protecting a writer's rights to his or her work and determining compensation, registration is not the same as a US Copyright. Although a registration may constitute evidence in a copyright dispute, registration is not proof of copyright registration or ownership. Additionally, an official Copyright registration with the U.S. Library of Congress is required to invoke the jurisdiction of U.S. Federal Courts, where most copyright infringement claims are adjudicated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13669215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13669215", "title": "Washington v. Harper", "text": "Washington v. Harper\n\nWashington v. Harper, 494 U.S. 210 (1990), was a United States Supreme Court case in which an incarcerated inmate sued the state of Washington over the issue of involuntary medication, specifically antipsychotic medication.\n\nRespondent Harper, an inmate in the Washington prison system since 1976, had a history of becoming violent when not on antipsychotic medication. Twice he was transferred to the Special Offender Center (SOC), a state institution for convicted offenders with serious psychiatric problems. While there, Harper was forced to take psychiatric medication against his will. The SOC followed its policies of institutional review for making a treatment decision to forcibly medicate an inmate. \n\nUpon his second hospitalization at the Center, Harper filed suit in state court under 42 U.S.C. 1983, alleging that the Center failed to provide a judicial hearing before involuntarily medicating him, thus violating the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The trial court rejected his claim but the State Supreme Court reversed the decision and remanded the case back to the trial court stating that the State could administer antipsychotic medication to a competent, nonconsenting inmate only if, in a judicial hearing, at which the inmate had full adversarial procedural protections, the State could prove by \"clear, cogent, and [494 U.S. 210, 211] convincing\" evidence that the forced medication was necessary and effective for furthering an important state interest, weighing the individuals interest against that of the state.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court granted a Writ of Certiorari.\nThe American Psychological Association submitted an amicus brief in support of the inmate's right to a due process hearing, stating forced medication of an incarcerated inmate violated the due process, equal protection, and free speech clauses of the Constitution of the United States.\n\nThe Court reversed, finding the use of an internal institutional review was adequate in making treatment decisions in this case under the lesser standard of review embodied in \"Turner v. Safley\", .\n\nThe United States Supreme court ruled that the Due Process Clause permits a state to treat an incarcerated inmate having a serious mental disorder with antipsychotic medication against his will, under the condition that he is dangerous to himself or others and the medication prescribed is in his best medical interest.\n\nAn issue in this case was the institutional policy of forming a treatment decision team made up of two mental health professionals and one associate superintendent. This three person committee evaluated issues such as the severity of the inmate's mental disorder and the risk to himself or others and then made the treatment decision.\nSix members of the Court disagreed with Harper's argument that he had a right to due process through the court. In this decision the United States Supreme Court weighs in on the side that it is preferable for medical professionals to make treatment decisions rather than have those decisions made through judicial proceedings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19761569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761569", "title": "Wildlife inspector", "text": "Wildlife inspector\n\nA wildlife inspector is a person empowered by law to protect wildlife.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a wildlife inspector is a person authorised in writing by the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs under S19ZA of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. An authorisation can be subject to any conditions or limitations specified in it.\n\nA wildlife inspector may, at any reasonable time and (if required to do so) upon producing evidence that he is authorised:\n\nBut in the case of the sections marked , an inspector cannot enter a dwelling except for purposes connected with:\n\nA wildlife inspector may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether an offence under section 6, 7, section 9(5), 13(2) or section 14 is being, or has been, committed in respect of any specimen, require any person who has the specimen in his possession or control to make it available for examination by the inspector.\n\nAny person who has in his possession or control any live bird or other animal shall give any wildlife inspector acting in the exercise of powers conferred by this section such assistance as the inspector may reasonably require for the purpose of examining the bird or other animal. It is an offence to fail without reasonable excuse to give any assistance reasonably required.\n\nAny person who intentionally obstructs a wildlife inspector acting in the exercise of powers of entry examination shall be guilty of an offence. Any person who, with intent to deceive, falsely pretends to be a wildlife inspector shall be guilty of an offence.\n\nIn the US, a wildlife inspector is a person employed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the defense against the illegal wildlife trade by ensuring that wildlife shipments comply with US and international wildlife protection laws. \n\nStationed at major international airports, ocean ports, and border crossings, wildlife inspectors monitor an annual trade worth more than $2.8 billion. They stop illegal shipments, intercept smuggled wildlife and wildlife products, and help the US fulfill its commitment to global wildlife conservation.\n\n\nBy law, most commercial wildlife shipments come through 17 'designated ports' - Anchorage, Alaska; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Honolulu, Hawaii; Houston, Texas; Los Angeles, California; Louisville, Kentucky; Memphis, Tennessee; Miami, Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana; New York, New York/Newark, New Jersey; Portland, Oregon; San Francisco, California; and Seattle, Washington. The Service operates wildlife inspection offices in these cities. Wildlife inspectors also staff 14 locations along the Mexican and Canadian borders and five additional ports that handle specific types of wildlife traffic. \n\nA Senior Wildlife Inspector is stationed at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Glynco, GA and coordinates training for Service Wildlife Inspector and Special Agents, Customs officers and other International, Federal, State and Local law enforcement agencies that deal with the import/ export of wildlife.\n\nThe US is one of the world's largest markets for wildlife and wildlife products. High-volume 'live' traffic includes exotic reptiles, tropical fish, and primates. Manufactured products (such as boots, shoes, purses, jewelry, caviar, and meats) and less 'processed' wildlife items (such as hunting trophies, feathers, furs, skins, raw coral, and shells) are also common. Wildlife inspectors enforce a range of US and international laws, regulations, and treaties that protect wildlife and limit commercial traffic in endangered animals and plants.\n\nWildlife inspectors clear legal imports and exports and seize shipments that violate the law. They make sure that wildlife imports and exports are accompanied by the required permits and licenses, and verify that the contents of shipments match the items listed on declaration forms. They pay special attention to live wildlife, checking to see that animals in transit are treated humanely.\n\nAlthough wildlife inspectors spend most of their time processing commercial cargo shipments, they also keep tabs on international passenger traffic. Unwary travelers all too often return from abroad with illegal wildlife souvenirs. Many smuggling rings use human couriers; inspectors find protected animals hidden in clothing and stuffed in suitcases and handbags.\n\nWildlife inspectors work closely with Service Special Agents and counterparts from Customs and Border Protection and other Federal agencies that police international trade. They staff special enforcement task forces that conduct inspection blitzes at international mail processing facilities, or target specific enforcement problems, such as the import and sale of medicinal products made from endangered species.\n\nOutreach is also an important part of the job. Wildlife inspectors meet with customs brokers, trade associations, international travelers, and hunters going abroad to explain wildlife import/export rules and regulations. They are popular guest speakers at schools, nature centers, community conservation programs, and environmental fairs. \n\nInspectors provided international training to our Canadian and Mexican counterparts, and have travel internationally to countries such as Nepal, China, Italy, Mongolian and Botswana to provide training to other wildlife law enforcement agencies in those countries.\n\n"}
