{"id": "52722579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722579", "title": "1981 Prague Skate", "text": "1981 Prague Skate\n\nThe 1981 Prague Skate was held in November 1981. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing.\n"}
{"id": "52908524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52908524", "title": "1984 Prize of Moscow News", "text": "1984 Prize of Moscow News\n\nThe 1984 Prize of Moscow News was the 19th edition of an international figure skating competition organized in Moscow, Soviet Union. It was held December 5–9, 1984. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating and ice dancing. The men's category was won by European champion Alexandre Fadeev, who would end his season with the world title. The ladies' gold medal went to Olympic medalist Kira Ivanova, winning her fourth Prize of Moscow News title. Olympic medalists Larisa Selezneva / Oleg Makarov took the pairs' title, earning their second win at the Prize of Moscow News. In the ice dancing category, Olympic bronze medalists Marina Klimova / Sergei Ponomarenko defeated the Olympic silver medalists Natalia Bestemianova / Andrei Bukin.\n"}
{"id": "41667394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41667394", "title": "2014 African Youth Games", "text": "2014 African Youth Games\n\nThe 2nd African Youth Games took place in Gaborone, Botswana's capital city from 22 to 31 May 2014. The Games featured approximately 2000 athletes from 51 African countries competing in 21 sports. Gambia, Eritrea and Mauritania were the only African countries absent from the Games.\n\nThe Botswana African Youth Games Organising Committee (BAYGOC) was charged with organising the Games and was headed by Regina Sikalesele Vaka as Chairman while Tuelo Serufho led the Secretariat as its Chief Executive Officer.\n\nTwenty one sports were contested in this edition of African Youth Games.\nVenues of the 2014 African Youth Games are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "28048830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28048830", "title": "Act of Vengeance", "text": "Act of Vengeance\n\nAct of Vengeance is a 1986 television movie starring Charles Bronson, Ellen Burstyn, and Keanu Reeves.\n\nThe movie is based on the book, \"Act of Vengeance\" by Trevor Armbrister, a fact-based story about the corruption that occurred during the United Mine Workers' presidential elections in 1969. The film also portrayed the murder of Joseph \"Jock\" Yablonski.\n\n\nIt premiered on April 21, 1986 on HBO under HBO Premiere Films. The film was released on VHS by HBO/Cannon Video under license from Home Box Office. But, this film was produced by Lorimar Productions and it belongs to Lorimar (subsequently later it owned by Warner Bros.) originally. However, it never released on DVD or Blu-ray by Warner Bros. Home Entertainment.\n"}
{"id": "20148645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20148645", "title": "Aditya-L1", "text": "Aditya-L1\n\nAditya ( ) or Aditya-L1 is a spacecraft whose mission is to study the Sun. It was conceptualised by the \"Advisory Committee for Space Research\" in January 2008. It has been designed and will be built in collaboration between Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and various Indian research organizations and will be launched by ISRO around 2021 (initially planned in 2019 or 2020). \n\nIt was initially envisaged as a small 400 kg, Low-Earth Orbiting Satellite with a coronagraph to study the solar corona and was approved by Government of India in 2008-09. The scope of the mission has since been expanded and it is now planned to be a comprehensive solar and space environment observatory to be placed at the Lagrangian point L1. An experimental budget of 3 Crore INR has been allocated for the financial year 2016-17.\n\nThe Aditya-L1 mission will be inserted in a halo orbit around the L1, which is about 1.5 million km from the Earth. The 1,500 kg class satellite carries a total of seven payloads with diverse objectives, including but not limited to, the coronal heating problem, solar wind acceleration, coronal magnetometry, origin and monitoring of near-UV solar radiation (which drives Earth's upper atmospheric dynamics and global climate), coupling of the solar photosphere to chromosphere and corona, in-situ characterizations of the space environment around Earth by measuring energetic particle fluxes and magnetic fields of the solar wind and solar magnetic storms that have adverse effects on space and ground-based technologies.\n\nAditya-L1 will be able to provide observations of Sun's photosphere, chromosphere and corona. In addition, particle payloads will study the particle flux emanating from the Sun and reaching the L1 orbit, and the magnetometer payload will measure the variation in magnetic field strength at the halo orbit around L1.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThus the enhanced Aditya-L1 project will enable a comprehensive understanding of the dynamical processes of the sun and address some of the outstanding problems in solar physics.\n"}
{"id": "3979295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979295", "title": "Age of the Sturlungs", "text": "Age of the Sturlungs\n\nThe Age of the Sturlungs or the Sturlung Era () was a 42–44 year period of internal strife in mid-13th century Iceland. It may have been the bloodiest and most violent period in Icelandic history. It is documented in the Sturlunga saga.\n\nThis period is marked by the conflicts of powerful chieftains, \"goðar\", who amassed followers and fought wars, and is named for the Sturlungs, the most powerful family clan in Iceland at the time. At the end of the era, the Icelandic Commonwealth ceased to exist and Iceland became a part of Norway.\n\nHistorians generally regard the year 1220 as the first year of the Age of the Sturlungs, although some wish to place its beginning at an earlier date because of the Battle of Víðines. Power in the country had consolidated within the grasp of a few family clans. They were:\n\n\nAt this time, Hákon the Old, King of Norway, was trying to extend his influence in Iceland. Many Icelandic chieftains became his vassals and were obliged to do his bidding—in exchange they received gifts, followers and a status of respect. Consequently, the greatest Icelandic chieftains were soon affiliated with the King of Norway in one way or the other.\n\nIn the Icelandic Commonwealth, power was mostly in the hands of the \"goðar\" (local chieftains). Iceland was effectively divided into farthings (quarters). Within each farthing were nine \"Goði\"-dominions (\"Goðorð\"). The North farthing had an additional three dominions due to its size. All in all they were 39.\n\nThe \"Goði\"-chieftains protected the farmers in their territory, and exacted compensation or vengeance if their followers' rights were violated. In exchange, the farmers pledged their support to the \"Goði\", both by voting in his favor in the \"Alþingi\" parliament and (if needed) by taking up arms against his enemies.\n\nThe powers of the \"Goði\"-chieftains, however, were neither permanent nor inherited. This status came about by a combination of respect, honour, influence and wealth. The chieftains constantly had to demonstrate their qualities as leaders, either by giving gifts to their followers or by holding great feasts. If the chieftain was seen as failing in any respect, his followers could simply choose another, more qualified \"Goði\" to support.\n\nThe greatest chieftains of the 12th and 13th century started amassing great wealth, and subsuming lesser dominions. This may be one of the causes of the civil war.\n\nThe Age of Sturlungs began in 1220, when Snorri Sturluson, chieftain of the Sturlung clan and one of the great Icelandic saga writers, became a vassal of King Hákon of Norway. The king insisted that Snorri help him bring Iceland under the sovereignty of Norway. Snorri returned home, and although he soon became the country's most powerful chieftain, he did little to enforce the king's will. According to one historian, \"we do not know whether [Snorri's] inactivity was due to lack of will or his conviction that the case was hopeless\".\n\nIn 1235, Snorri's nephew Sturla Sighvatsson also accepted vassalage under the king. Sturla was more aggressive: he sent his uncle back to Norway, and started warring on the chieftains who refused to accept the king's demands. However, Sturla and his father Sighvatur were soundly defeated by Gissur Þorvaldsson, the chief of the Haukdælir, and Kolbeinn the young, chief of the Ásbirnings, in Örlygsstaðir in Skagafjörður. The Battle of Örlygsstaðir was the largest armed conflict in the history of Iceland—the Sturlungs (Sturla Sighvatsson) had 1000 armed men and the Ásbirningar (Kolbeinn the young) had 1200 armed men. More than 50 people were killed. After this crushing defeat, Gissur and Kolbeinn became the most powerful chieftains in the country.\n\nSnorri Sturluson returned home to Iceland, having fallen out of favor with the king due to his support for Earl Skúli in an attempted coup. Gissur Þorvaldsson, also a vassal of the Norwegian king, received instructions that Snorri be killed. In 1241, Gissur went with many men to Snorri's home and murdered him. Snorri's last words are said to have been \"Eigi skal höggva!\" ().\n\nA year later, Þórður kakali Sighvatsson (the nickname \"kakali\" probably means \"The Stutterer\"), son of Sighvatur, Snorri's brother, returned home to Iceland from abroad. He had cause for vengeance, for his brothers and father had fallen in the Battle of Örlygsstaðir. He soon showed himself to be a formidable tactician and leader. Four years later, the rule of the Ásbirnings was effectively over, after fierce battles with Þórður. The battles Flóabardagi (1244 – the only naval battle in Icelandic history with Icelanders on both sides) and the Battle of Haugsnes (1246 – the bloodiest battle in Icelandic history with about 110 fatalities) both take place during this period.\n\nÞórður kakali and Gissur Þorvaldsson, however, did not fight each other. Both were vassals of the king of Norway, and they appealed to him as dispute mediator. The king decided in favor of Þórður and from 1247–1250 Þórður ruled Iceland almost alone. He died in Norway, six years later.\n\nIn 1252 the king sent Gissur to Iceland. The followers of Þórður kakali were displeased and tried to kill him by putting his residence in Flugumýri in Skagafjörður to the torch—this incident is known as \"Flugumýrarbrenna\" (\"The burning of Flugumýri\"). Despite his influence and power, Gissur was unable to find the leader of the arsonists, and was forced to return to Norway in 1254 to bear the censure of the king, who was displeased with his failure in bringing Iceland under the Norwegian throne.\n\nMinor conflicts continued throughout Iceland. Meanwhile, Gissur was given the title of Jarl and sent home to negotiate. Only when the king had sent his special emissary, Hallvarður gullskór (\"Goldenshoes\"), did the Icelanders agree on Norwegian kingship. The Commonwealth came to an end with the signing of the \"Gamli sáttmáli\" (\"Old Covenant\") agreement in 1264.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4854766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4854766", "title": "Alexander Akimov", "text": "Alexander Akimov\n\nAleksandr Fyodorovich Akimov (; 6 May 1953 – 11 May 1986) was the shift supervisor of the night crew that worked at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant Unit #4 on the night of the Chernobyl disaster, April 26, 1986.\n\nThe turbine was shut down as planned, and the power surged. Akimov pressed the AZ-5 (Class Five Emergency) to shut down the poisoned reactor. The control rods seized around 2-2.5 meters into the reactor (the reactor goes down to a depth of seven meters), but the boron bars had a graphite cover that caused an increase in power. The reactor then exploded, and the communications networks were suddenly flooded with calls and information - Akimov heard reports of massive reactor damage, but would not believe it and therefore relayed false information about the state of the reactor for a few hours. Once he knew the full extent of the accident, he worked with his crew in the reactor building until early morning, trying to pump water into the exposed reactor. None of the men who stayed behind to save the reactor wore any protective gear.\n\nAkimov died two weeks after the accident due to acute radiation syndrome, also known as radiation poisoning, at the age of 33. In the inquiry, he and his co-workers were blamed. Later the blame was put on the plant's director and manager. The crew and directors did not adhere to the plant's safety guidelines and ignored repeated warnings of the control system.\n\n"}
{"id": "45284661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45284661", "title": "Algerian Assembly election, 1951", "text": "Algerian Assembly election, 1951\n\nElections to the Algerian Assembly were held in Algeria in February 1951. Like other post-1948 elections in French Algeria, it was rigged by the authorities to ensure the defeat of Algerian nationalists.\n\nThe Assembly was elected by two colleges, each of which elected 60 seats; the First College consisted of Europeans and évolués, whilst the Second College was composed of the remainder of the Algerian population.\n"}
{"id": "8010671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8010671", "title": "Anne Frank tree", "text": "Anne Frank tree\n\nThe Anne Frank tree ( or, incorrectly, \"Anne Frank boom\") was a horse-chestnut tree (\"Aesculus hippocastanum\") in the city center of Amsterdam that was featured in Anne Frank's \"The Diary of a Young Girl\". Anne Frank described the tree from The Annexe, the building where she and her family were hiding from the Nazis during World War II.\n\nOver the years, the tree deteriorated significantly due to both a fungus and a moth infestation. The Borough Amsterdam Centrum declared that the tree had to be cut down on 20 November 2007 due to the risk that it could otherwise fall down. However, on 21 November 2007, a judge issued a temporary injunction stopping the removal. The Foundation and the neighbours developed an alternative plan to save the tree. The neighbours and supporters formed the Foundation Support Anne Frank Tree which carried out the suggested supporting construction and took over the maintenance of the tree.\n\nOn 23 August 2010, the tree was blown down by high winds during a storm, breaking off approximately above ground. It fell across a garden wall and damaged garden sheds but did not damage anything else. The tree was estimated to be between 150 and 170 years old.\n\nThe tree is mentioned three times in Anne Frank's diary \"The Diary of a Young Girl\". On 23 February 1944, she writes about the tree: \n\nOtto Frank, Anne's father, described his thoughts upon reading the diary for the first time in a 1968 speech. He described his surprise at learning of the tree's importance to Anne as follows: \n\nThe \"Anne Frank Tree\" is also the name of an interactive project started by the Anne Frank House in 2006, when it was opened by Emma Thompson. Visitors to the museum are able to leave their name and location on a \"leaf\" of the tree, showing their affinity with Anne Frank. Part of the intended audience of the on-line project are students of the more than 200 schools in the world named after Anne Frank.\n\nConcerns about the tree's health date back to at least 1993, when a soil analysis revealed that leakage from a nearby underground domestic fuel tank was endangering the tree's root system. The city of Amsterdam spent €160,000 on a soil sanitation program to save the tree. For the last several years, the tree was attacked by a particularly aggressive fungus (\"Ganoderma applanatum\", also called \"Artist's Conch\" or \"Artist's Bracket\") which rotted the wood and undermined the tree's stability. Additionally, horse-chestnut leaf miner moth caterpillars (\"Cameraria ohridella\") ate the tree's leaves, causing them to turn brown prematurely and fall off.\n\nOn 26 May 2005, the tree's crown was drastically trimmed after a six-month study by botanists concluded that this was the best way to ensure the tree's stability. However, the disease continued to thrive and a 2006 study estimated that 42% of the wood was rotten. Some botanists concluded that the tree's death was unavoidable and the owner of the property decided to ask for a permit to cut the tree down in order to eliminate the risk of the huge tree collapsing.\n\nIn September 2007, an appeals panel made two decisions: one upholding the right of the tree's owner to have it cut down any time in the next two years, and one granting a request by the country's Trees Institute to investigate the possibility of saving it. Property owner Henric Pomes of Keizersgracht 188, adjacent to the building that is now the Anne Frank Museum, agreed to wait for the institute's proposal, due before 1 January 2008.\n\nOn 2 October 2007, and later the Dutch Tree Foundation (), was involved in the discussions. On 15 November 2007, it claimed the tree was healthy enough to cause no danger, based upon second opinion analysis by Neville Fay (a famous English expert of ancient trees) and by Frits Gielissen (a Dutch expert from O.B.T.A. De Linde).\n\nOn 13 November 2007, the Borough Amsterdam-Centrum declared that it would cut down the tree on 21 November 2007. The next day, a pulling test was banned, but four days after that, this assessment of the strength of the tree was conducted. Boom-KCB, an engineering firm specialized in trees, determined that the tree was \"storm-proof\", and able to sustain itself, eliminating the need for outside interference as it did not pose a danger for the public. A court hearing involving the Tree Foundation was held the day before the scheduled removal.\nOn 21 November 2007, it was decided to stop the removal. On the same day, the Borough and the Anne Frank Foundation held a press conference during which they repeated their claim that there existed an “acute danger”. They urged the Mayor of Amsterdam, Job Cohen, to proceed with emergency cutting.\n\nOn 17 December 2007, the working committee Support Anne Frank Tree presented its alternative plan to preserve the tree (the report has English abstracts & conclusions) which included a construction to prevent the trunk from breaking down. Some weeks later, tree experts from both sides presented a joint evaluation of the tree. Their judgment was that the tree had a life expectancy of at least 5–15 years. To ensure safety, the supporting construction should be built.\n\nThe supporting structure, finished in May 2008, was designed to make it possible for the tree to survive at least five more years. On 23 August 2010, the tree was blown over in a rain-and-gale storm, breaking off about a meter above the ground.\nIt fell across a garden wall and damaged garden sheds but did not damage anything else. The next day, it was reported that a small side shoot was growing out of the stump below where it broke, and it is hoped that it will grow into a new tree. There are plans to keep large pieces of the fallen trunk and its large branches. The fallen tree is estimated to weigh about 27 metric tons. Some of the images in the Reuters report show, for most of the cross-section of the trunk, the characteristic fracture pattern of decayed wood across all the trunk cross-section except a thin rim of sapwood. The fallen wood has now been removed.\n\nEleven saplings from the tree have been distributed in the United States to museums, schools, parks and Holocaust remembrance centers through a project led by The Anne Frank Center USA. The first sapling was planted in April 2013 at The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Other saplings were sent to Liberty Park in New York City, honoring victims of September 11 attacks; a Little Rock, Arkansas school that was the center of a desegregation battle; the Clinton Presidential Center, also in Little Rock, in partnership with the city's Congregation B'nai Israel Sisterhood; and sites in Massachusetts, California, Idaho, Michigan and Washington, D.C.. On 25 February 2015, a sapling was planted in Lister Park, Bradford, UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "367158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367158", "title": "Breeding back", "text": "Breeding back\n\nBreeding back is a form of artificial selection by the deliberate selective breeding of domestic animals, in an attempt to achieve an animal breed with a phenotype that resembles a wildtype ancestor, usually one that is extinct in its wild form. Breeding back is not to be confused with dedomestication.\n\nIt must be kept in mind that a breeding-back breed may be very similar to the extinct wild type in phenotype, ecological niche, and to some extent genetics, but the initial gene pool of that wild type is lost forever with its extinction. It is not truly possible for a breeding back attempt to actually recreate an extinct wild type that is the breeding target, as an extinct wild type cannot be resurrected via selective breeding alone. Furthermore, even the outward authenticity of a bred-back type depends on the quality of the stock used as the foundation of the project. As a result, some breeds, like Heck cattle, are at best a vague look-alike of the extinct wildtype aurochs, according to the literature.\n\nIt is the target of breeding back to restore the wild traits that may have been preserved in domestic animals within one breeding lineage. Commonly, not only the phenotype but also the ecological capacity are considered in breeding back projects, because hardy breeding back results are used in certain conservation projects. In nature, usually only individuals suited to the natural circumstances can survive and reproduce, while humans select those with additional attractive, docile or productive characteristics. Therefore, selection criteria in nature versus those in domestic conditions are different and domesticated animals often differ significantly in phenotype, behaviour and genetics from their wild forerunners. It is the target of breeding back to re-create the wild traits that may have been preserved in domestic animals within one breeding lineage.\n\nIn many cases, the extinct wild type ancestors of a given species are known only through skeletons and, in some cases, historical descriptions, so their phenotype is not directly accessible. Therefore, there is no certainty of success with a breeding back attempt and the results must be reviewed with caution. In order to test genetic closeness, both mitochondrial DNA and nuclear DNA have to be accessible. However, success is possible: humans selected only for superficial characters and as a rule did not change inner mechanisms such as digestion. Further, since many domestic animals show a behaviour that is derived from their wild ancestors (such as the herding instinct of cattle or the social instincts of dogs), and are fit to survive under natural circumstances, as evidenced by the many feral populations of many domestic animals, it can be presumed that back-bred animals will function like their wild ancestors. For example, food choice should be the same in domestic and wild types. Natural selection could serve as an additional tool in creating authentic robustness, behaviour and maybe also phenotype. For large herbivores, a sufficient predator population would also be necessary to support such a process, but this predator population is largely not present in today's Europe, where many breeding back projects are conducted.\n\nThere is a difference between creating a look-alike breed from domestic animals and creating a look-alike via artificial selection of individuals of a different species or subspecies that may resemble the animal that is targeted. \n\nFor example, the Quagga Project is trying to breed animals which strongly resemble the original Quagga of South Africa. The quagga was a subspecies of the plains zebra and has no descendants. Accordingly, the Project is limited to selecting for the physical appearance of the original, as illustrated by twenty three mounted specimens, contemporary paintings and written accounts. \n\nHowever, the two most noticeable characteristics of the quagga, fewer stripes and darker pelage, are frequently observed to varying degrees in wild plains zebra populations. Animals with these characteristic are included in the Quagga Project breeding programme. \n\nAfter nearly thirty years of selective breeding, to concentrate these characteristics, recent foals show a marked resemblance to the original.\n\nBred-back breeds are interesting for conservation biology since they may fill an ecological gap that has been left due to the extinction of the wildtypes due to hunting by humans. As long as food choice, behaviour, robustness, defence against predators, hunting or foraging instincts and phenotype are the same as in the wild type, it will function like it in the wilderness. Releasing such animals into the wild would fill the previously empty niche and allows a natural dynamic between the species of the ecosystem to re-evolve. However, breeding-back attempts do not always result in an animal that is closer to the wild type than other domestic breeds. For example, Heck cattle bear less resemblance to the aurochs than many Iberian fighting cattle do.\n\nIdeas for creating an aurochs-like animal from domestic cattle have been around since 1835. In the 1920s, Heinz and Lutz Heck tried to breed a look-alike using central European dairy breeds and southern European cattle. The result, Heck cattle, are hardy, but differ from the aurochs in many respects, although a resemblance in colour and sometimes also horns has been achieved. From 1996 onwards, Heck cattle have been crossed with primitive Iberian breeds like Sayaguesa Cattle and Fighting cattle, and the very large Italian breed Chianina in a number of German reserves in order to enhance the resemblance to the aurochs. The results are called Taurus cattle, which are larger and more long-legged than Heck cattle and have a more aurochs-like horn shape. Another project to achieve a type of cattle that resembles the aurochs is TaurOs Project, using primitive and hardy southern European breeds and also Scottish Highland cattle. These Tauros cattle are planned to be established in various European natural reserves.\n\nThe Polish Konik horse is often erroneously considered the result of a breeding-back experiment to \"recreate\" the phenotype of the Tarpan, the European wild horse. The Konik is actually a hardy landrace breed originating in Poland which was called \"Panje horse\" before agriculturist Tadeusz Vetulani coined the name \"Konik\" in the 1920s. Vetulani did start an experiment trying to reconstruct the Tarpan using Koniks, but his stock only had a minor contribution to the modern Konik population.\n\nHowever, during World War II, the Heck brothers crossed Koniks with Przewalski's horses and also other ponies like Icelandic horses and Gotland ponies; the result is now called the Heck Horse. During the last decades, Heck horses have continuously been crossed with Koniks, so that their phenotype now is nearly indistinguishable, except that the Heck horse has a slenderer build on average.\n\nBesides the Konik-type horses, the Exmoor Pony that still lives in a semi-feral state in some parts of Southern England has also been claimed to be closer to the European wild horse as it carries pangare coloration and has a resemblance to the horses in Lascaux cave paintings.\n\nAlthough the wolf, the wild ancestor of domestic dogs, is not extinct, its phenotype is the target of several developmental breeds including the Northern Inuit Dog and the Tamaskan Dog. They are all crossbreeds of German Shepherds, Alaskan Malamutes and huskies, selected for phenotypic wolf characteristics. Therefore, these breeds are breeding-back attempts as well.\n\nAlthough extinct, Japanese wolf DNA survives in the modern domestic Shikoku Inu. It is thought that crossing this breed with some subspecies of Asian Wolf would result in a authentic analogue to fill the ecological niche left by the absence of the apex predator.\n\nThe Dire Wolf Project, started in 1988, concerns the dire wolf, an extinct prehistoric wolf, and aims to bring it back by breeding different dog breeds that resemble it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12541402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12541402", "title": "Changchun Film Festival", "text": "Changchun Film Festival\n\nThe Changchun Film Festival (中国长春电影节) is a biennial international film festival held in the Chinese city of Changchun. Ostensibly international, its award for best film, the Golden Deer has nevertheless primarily been awarded to Chinese and other East Asia-region films. It was first held in 1992 and was founded in part by the Changchun Film Studio (now the Changchun Film Studio Group Corporation). \n\nThe festival is funded in part by the Ministry of Radio, Cinema, and Television, the provincial government of Jilin, and the Changchun municipal government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873056", "title": "Children in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict", "text": "Children in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict\n\nChildren in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict refers to the impact of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict on minors in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Laurel Holliday, in her 1999 book \"Children of Israel/Palestine\", writes that two \"ethnically distinct peoples – both Palestinians and Israeli Jews – lay claim to the very same sand, stone, rivers, vegetation, seacoast, and mountains\" and that the stories she presents show that \"Israeli and Palestinian children grow up feeling that they are destined for conflict with their neighbors\".\n\nBoth the Israeli Defense Forces and militant Palestinian groups have been accused of violating the rights of children and causing injury and death. The media has been used manipulatively to create support for different sides. Children have been the victims of indoctrination, school closures, medical problems and post-traumatic stress as a result of the conflict. At the same time, various educational projects have been established to counter indoctrination and negative stereotypes. Joseph Massad has argued that the Western media are far more sensitive to the deaths of Jewish children than to child fatalities among Palestinians, while Sarah Honig argues the opposite position, that the international media tolerates murder of Jewish children and infants, particularly settler children.\n\nIn late April 2015 Human Rights Watch asked the UN to put both Israel and Hamas on its \"List of Shame\" regarding grave violations of children's rights in a conflict.\n\nYouth have been engaged in military action since before the creation of Israel. In the 1929 Hebron massacre, 67 Jews were killed, young children among them; Arab youths initiated the violence by hurling rocks at Jewish students as they walked by. In 1948, adolescent fighters from the Irgun and Lehi paramilitary groups participated in a massacre of 107 Palestinian residents of the village of Deir Yassin, a number of whom were children. Since the Six-Day War, when the West Bank and the Gaza Strip fell under Israeli military occupation, according to Anton Shammas, the idea of 'childhood' was abolished and dropped from Israeli military declarations, so that if a 10-year-old happened to be shot, he was referred to as 'a young man of ten'. With the outbreak of the First Intifada (1987–1993), stone-throwing was defined as a felony, children began to be arrested with bail set at %400, and if this was not paid, they could be held in administrative detention for 1 year. The continued Israeli occupation and the stalled Israeli–Palestinian peace process has led to Palestinian protests and political violence, building up to mass protests during the First Intifada. Many youth were involved in nonviolent demonstrations, sit-ins, walk-outs, boycotts, civil disobedience and strikes organized by popular committees. There also was rioting, grenade throwing, and suicide bombings. J. Kuttab refers to the First Intifada as the \"children's revolt\" because youth \"possessed a new spirit that challenged the occupation\" and inspired even adults to action. James L. Gelvin has written that the \"paradigmatic symbol\" of the First Intifada was \"unarmed Palestinian children throwing stones at Israeli tanks.\" Approximately 90 percent of young males and 80 percent of young females engaged in some form of activism. The much more violent Second Intifada (2000–2005) was led by adults in the Palestine Liberation Organization following the collapse of the 1993 Oslo Accords.\n\nA 2007 survey showed that 17 percent of the Palestinian population is made up of children under the age of five, and 46 percent under 15. In 2012, it was estimated that the densely populated Gaza Strip has a population of 1.7 million, over 800,000 of whom are children.\n\nRock throwing and firebomb attacks by Palestinians on Israeli residents have been described as regular occurrences in the West Bank, and in many cases they directly affect children. Israelis have recounted incidents in which Palestinians targeted children on school buses, and report that in Hebron they \"routinely throw stones at children in the playground\". According to the IDF, Arab snipers have fired at cars containing children, and rockets from Gaza have landed in locations that are typically frequented by large numbers of children.\n\nA UN draft report on children in armed conflict, scheduled for publication in mid-June 2015, and prepared by Leila Zerrougui for the Secretary General of the United Nations reportedly recommended adding both Israel and Hamas to the \"List of Shame\", due to repeated violations of children's rights. Human Rights Watch wrote to Ban Ki-Moon on the 27 April requesting that the names of Israel and Hamas remain on the list, in the context of reports that Israel had been lobbying to have its name removed. Israel denies it has lobbied the UN over this. Inclusion in the list requires that a pattern of multiple instances of repeated abuses of children be evidenced. Human Rights Watch noted that in its 2014 report on events in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict over the preceding year, nearly 12 dozen Palestinian children were said to have been killed by Israel and over 1,200 Palestinian children had been injured. In addition 41 incidents in which school facilities were damaged, classes interrupted and students injured by IDF forces were registered. Palestinian armed groups, the reports also noted, had launched in the same period some 63 rockets into Israel from Gaza, resulting in disruptions to their schooling of over 12,000 Israeli children.\n\nThough Israeli children were killed in the conflict during the decades prior, the first acts of Palestinian violence specifically targeting large numbers of Israeli children were committed in the 1970s.\n\nThe Avivim school bus massacre was a terrorist attack on an Israeli school bus on May 22, 1970 in which 12 Israeli civilians were killed, nine of them children, and 25 were wounded. The attack took place on the road to Moshav Avivim, near Israel's border with Lebanon. Two bazooka shells were fired at the bus. The attack was one of the first carried out by the PFLP-GC.\n\nThe Ma'alot massacre in May 1974 involved a two-day hostage-taking of 115 people which ended in the deaths of over 25 hostages. It began when three armed members of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) entered the Netiv Meir Elementary School, where they took more than 115 people (including 105 children) hostage on May 15, 1974, in Ma'alot. The hostage-takers soon issued demands for the release of 23 Palestinian militants from Israeli prisons, or else they would kill the students. On the second day of the standoff, a unit of the Golani Brigade stormed the building. During the takeover, the hostage-takers killed the children with grenades and automatic weapons. Ultimately, 25 hostages, including 22 children, were killed and 68 more were injured.\n\nThe Dolphinarium discotheque suicide bombing was a terrorist attack by on June 1, 2001 in which a suicide bomber Saeed Hotari, linked to the Palestinian group Hamas, blew himself up outside a discotheque on a beachfront in Tel Aviv, Israel, killing 21 Israeli teenagers and injuring 132.\n\nThe Mercaz HaRav massacre, also called the Mercaz HaRav shooting, was an attack that occurred on March 6, 2008, in which a lone Palestinian gunman shot multiple students at the Mercaz HaRav yeshiva, a school in Jerusalem. Eight students and the perpetrator were killed. Eleven more were wounded, five of them placed in serious to critical condition.\n\nOther terrorist attacks targeting children included the Itamar attack in which six children and their parents were murdered in their beds, including a three-month-old infant, and the 2011 Shaar HaNegev school bus attack in which Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip fired a Kornet laser-guided anti-tank missile over the border at an Israeli school bus, killing one child.\n\nIn 2010 Palestinian National Authority issued a \"Report on the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Occupied Palestinian Territory\", i.e., the West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza and noted the Authority's lack of jurisdiction over these areas and the Israel \"closure regime\", the \"Israeli Wall of Annexation and Expansion\" and the many checkpoints Israel has set up within the occupied territories. All make it difficult for Palestinians to stop Israeli violations of the rights of Palestinian children. \n\nAccording to the Israeli military and prison service, at the end of February 2018 there were 356 Palestinian minors (defined as before 18th birthday) held as Israeli security detainees and prisoners.\n\nApplicable to Israelis and Palestinians is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, a human rights treaty setting out the civil, political, economic, social, health and cultural rights of children. The Convention defines a child as any human being under the age of eighteen, unless the state itself defines the age of majority as an earlier age. Israel ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991. Although Palestine did not have the status of a state, in 1995 Yassir Arafat, as the representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization, signed the Convention. The internationally accepted definition of children, codified in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), defines children as individuals under the age of 18. Since 1991 Israel has signed and ratified the CRC and applies the definition to Israeli children. However, in the Occupied Territories Israel defines as minors only Palestinians who are under the age of 16. Some leaders of the major Palestinian armed groups also state they consider children of 16 to be adults. According to the 1971 Israeli Youth Law, criminal responsibility is set at 12 years of age and over. The law states that children under that age may not be arrested, and that children older than that age must not be interrogated unless their parents and their lawyer is present. The Israeli human rights monitoring group B'Tselem states that the law does not officially apply to Palestinian children in the Occupied Territories, who are subject to Israeli military law, but that the military court has recommended the provisions should be taken into consideration. According to Gideon Levy, these provisions are ignored in practice. A UNICEF report has stated that, \"Ill-treatment of Palestinian children in the Israeli military detention system appears to be widespread, systematic and institutionalized,\" and that, \"In no other country are children systematically tried by juvenile military courts.\"\n\nThe Code of Conduct of the Israeli Defense Forces explicitly prohibits targeting non-combatants and dictates proportional force, stating, in part, that \"The soldier shall make use of his weaponry and power only for the fulfillment of the mission and solely to the extent required; he will maintain his humanity even in combat. The soldier shall not employ his weaponry and power in order to harm non-combatants or prisoners of war, and shall do all he can to avoid harming their lives, body, honor and property.\" However, Philip E. Veerman in an academic study found that the reaction of Israeli police and military against Palestinian violence was so strong that it \"practically eliminates the chances of effective training directed at the protection of children.\"\n\nSince the Second Intifada, UNICEF (The United Nations Children's Fund), Amnesty International, B'Tselem and individuals such as the British writer Derek Summerfield, have called for Israel to protect children from violence in accordance with the Geneva conventions. The European Union has linked the suspension of Israel/Europe trade agreement talks to human rights issues, especially in regards to children.\n\nIn 2012, Breaking the Silence, an organization founded by former Israeli soldiers whose purpose is to expose alleged abuses committed by the Israeli Defense Forces released a booklet of witness reports written by more than 30 former Israeli soldiers. These reports document of Palestinian children being beaten, intimidated, humiliated, verbally abused and injured by Israeli soldiers. Eran Efrati, a former IDF commander on the West Bank has said that ill-treatment of arrested children is routine. He himself admits to having arrested children aged 11 and over as though they were adults, with handcuffs and blindfolds:\n'When the kid is sitting there in the base, I didn't do it, but nobody is thinking of him as a kid, you know—if there is someone blindfolded and handcuffed, he's probably done something really bad. It's OK to slap him, it's OK to spit on him, it's OK to kick him sometimes. It doesn't really matter.'\n700 of the 9,000 Palestinians arrested in 2013 were children. An Israeli Defense Forces spokesperson said the Breaking the Silence group had declined to provide the IDF with testimonies for verification, and Danny Lamm, president of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, said these types of testimonies are \"anonymous ... devoid of critical detail and untested by any kind of cross-questioning.\"\n\nThe non-governmental organization, Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor, Accuse the Israeli forces of orchestring \"their actions\" to \"humiliate and terrorize Palestinian children\".\n\nIn September 2009, after documentation emerged showing Palestinians children as young as 12 were prosecuted in adult military courts, Israel established a juvenile military court, 'the first and only juvenile military court in operation in the world.' Military Order 1651 establishes a maximum 6 months sentence for children aged 12–13, and 12 months for juniors aged 14–15, unless the offence involves throwing stones at persons or property with the intent to damage, in which case 10 years imprisonment is the maximum penalty.\n\nIn one case a 5-year-old child has been detailed on allegations he threw stones in Hebron. The IDF said that the boy had endangered passers-by and that soldiers only accompanied him to his parents. It stated that the child was not arrested and no charges were filed.\n\nA separate study, conducted from 2005 until 2010 was released in mid-2011 by the Jerusalem-based non-profit B'Tselem, found that the actions of the IDF potentially violated the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nWhen researching a story based on this study, The Guardian obtained a statement from Amir Ofek, the press attache for the Embassy of Israel in London. Ofek challenged these statements, writing, \"When a minor involved in terrorist activity is arrested, the law is clear: no torture or humiliation is permitted, nor is solitary confinement in order to induce a confession.\" He further said that the DCI statement \"[omits] the horrific nature of the atrocities that minors, some as young as 12, can be arrested for.\"\n\nAccording to a March 2013 report by the United Nations Children's Fund (\"UNICEF\"), Israel has arrested some 7,000 Palestinian children; 18 of 27 arrested in Hebron in March 2013 were below the age of 12. The report was based on 400 cases documented since 2009. It stated that the Palestinian children who are detained by the Israeli military are subjected to \"widespread, systematic and institutionalized\" ill treatment in violation of international law. UNICEF estimated that in the West Bank IDF and Israeli security services annually arrest around 700 youths between 12 and 17 years old. The report supported claims that the arrests were often made, without notice, in private homes at night. It reports that children are blindfolded, painfully restrained, and subjected to physical and verbal abuse while being detained, sometimes in solitary confinement.\n\nThe report further claims that, once in detention, they are interrogated and coerced into confession, without immediate access to a legal counsel or family members. Signed confessions are typically typed in Hebrew, which few Palestinian minors can read. As of January 2013 Israeli military prisons held 233 males under 18, 31 under the age of 16. Additionally children are shackled during court appearances and made to serve sentences in Israel. UNICEF stated these findings \"amount to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention against Torture\".\n\nAbout 60 percent of arrested minors are charged with throwing rocks at soldiers or passing cars, which the IDF regards as a form of terrorism as it has led to the death and injury of Israelis, including of children.\n\nThe UNICEF report noted that Israel had made some positive changes over recent years, such as hand tying measures that do not cause pain or injury. It urged Israel to refrain from blindfolding minors and holding them in solitary confinement, to permit an attorney or family member to attend interrogations, and to record interrogations to document any false claims of abuse. Israel's Foreign Ministry said Israel's military was already making changes to cooperate with the United Nations, including reducing holding time before seeing a judge to 48 hours, telling parents about arrest of children, and informing children of their right to consult a lawyer. UNICEF replied that the changes were insufficiently specific. Israeli Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor stated that \"Israel will study the conclusions and will work to implement them through ongoing cooperation with UNICEF, whose work we value and respect\". In October,2013 UNICEF reported that the IDF was introducing changes in its arrest of minors in a pilot-test programme, but according to \"Haaretz\" the policy had not at that date been implemented and was still under study.\n\nJanuary 2015, Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor has issued a press release about Israeli detention of a Palestinian girl. The monitor said that Malak Al-Khatib, 14 year old-Palestinian girl, has been imprisoned by Israeli authorities for 22 consecutive days without contact with her parents, and has just been sentenced to serve another month along with a stiff fine on her parents. In addition, the monitor said that another four children as young as 11 were recently held for four hours under threat of detention and death. The Euro-Med Monitor has condemned Israel's policy of detaining children and subjecting them to abusive and inhumane treatment.\n\nAmnesty International's report into the 2008 Gaza War stated that they had found instances in which the IDF endangered the lives of civilians, including children, by using them as human shields. The report discussed examples such as \"forcing them to remain in or near houses which they took over and used as military positions. Some were forced to carry out dangerous tasks such as inspecting properties or objects suspected of being booby-trapped.\" The Israeli military denied the allegations saying \"The IDF operated in accordance with the rules of war and did the utmost to minimize harm to civilians uninvolved in combat. The IDF's use of weapons conforms to international law.\" Israel's Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center and the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs likewise accused Hamas and other militant groups of using children human shields during the Gaza war.\n\nIn 2010, two IDF soldiers were convicted of 'excess authority' and 'conduct unbecoming' for using a 9-year-old Palestinian child as a human shield to open packages they suspected of being booby trapped during the Gaza War. Both soldiers received three months probation and a demotion in rank. The Israeli Deputy Military Advocate for Operational Affairs commented that \"the defendants did not seek to humiliate or degrade the boy.\"\n\nIt has been reported that adult settlers harass and attack Palestinian families and even children. According to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers Israeli settlers often use children to violently harass Palestinian civilians, including through looting mosques and shops. The Palestinian National Authority accuses the Israeli government of condoning attacks and the IDF of protecting the culpable settlers\nand foreign observers repeatedly have called for more government action against them. In October 2011 Richard A. Falk, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on \"the situation of human rights in the Palestinian Territories occupied since 1967\", said that \"The failure to prevent and punish settler violence remains a serious and ongoing violation of Israel's fundamental legal obligation to protect the civilian population.\"\n\nAccording to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers' \"2004 Global Report on the Use of Child Soldiers\" there was \"no evidence of systematic recruitment of children by Palestinian armed groups.\" However, there were incidents where children were involved in suicide attacks or other militant operations. According to Human Rights Watch, in 2004, the major Palestinian armed groups, including Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Islamic Jihad, and Hamas \"have publicly disavowed the use of children in military operations, but those stated policies have not always been implemented.\" In part this is because some leaders state they consider children of 16 to be adults. In 2005 Amnesty International condemned the use of children by Palestinian militant groups saying: \"Palestinian armed groups have repeatedly shown total disregard for the most fundamental human rights, notably the right to life, by deliberately targeting Israeli civilians and by using Palestinian children in armed attacks.\"\n\nDuring the Second Intifada (2000–2005) \"Haaretz\" reported that Palestinian militant gunmen used civilians and children as human shields by surrounding themselves with children while shooting at IDF forces.\n\nIn a 2006 incident the Israeli Air Force warned Mohammed Weil Baroud, a Palestinian leader accused by Israel of firing Qassam rockets at Israel, to evacuate his home in Beit Lahia in the Gaza Strip in advance of an Israeli airstrike. Instead, hundreds of Palestinians, including many women and children, gathered outside Baroud's house. Israel suspended the airstrike out of fear that the civilians would be killed or injured. A senior Hamas official said the new tactic was taken because in previous months Israel has destroyed 58 houses and more than 240 people had been left homeless. After Israel called off the strike, another Palestinian leader said: \"We have won. From now on we will form human chains around every house that is threatened with demolition.\"\n\nIn October 2009, local Palestinians confirmed that Hamas had fired at Israeli troops from adjacent a UN school for girls where hundreds of Palestinians had sought refuge, leading to civilian casualties.\n\nDuring the November 2012 Operation Pillar of Defense, Hamas was accused of launching rockets from hospitals, schools, mosques and playgrounds. This practice was condemned by Human Rights Watch, the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), and the IDF.\n\nAccording to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers \"2004 Global Report on the Use of Child Soldiers\", there were at least nine documented suicide attacks involving Palestinian minors between October 2000 and March 2004.\n\nIn 2004, the Guardian reported that the Israeli military \"accused a faction of Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement of using an 11-year-old boy as an unwitting human bomb after the child was discovered carrying explosive through an army checkpoint in Nablus. In 2009, a 14-year-old was captured by Israeli soldiers and told of being given $23 and a suicide bomber's vest. His family said he was gullible and easily manipulated.\n\nShafiq Masalha, a clinical psychologist who teaches at Tel Aviv University, wrote in 2004 that 15 percent of Palestinian children dreamt of becoming suicide bombers. According to Eyad Sarraj, Palestinian psychiatrist and director of the Gaza Community Mental Health Program, a survey by his program found that 36 percent of Palestinians over 12 aspired to die \"a martyr's death\" fighting Israel.\n\nFormer UN Under-Secretary General Olara Otunnu stated in 2003: \"We have witnessed both ends of these acts: children have been used as suicide bombers and children have been killed by suicide bombings. I call on the Palestinian authorities to do everything within their powers to stop all participation by children in this conflict.\"\n\nAccording to some sources, Hamas uses children to transport weaponry and to perpetrate acts of violence against Israeli soldiers and civilians. This includes grenade throwing, rock throwing, and stabbing attacks. In 2004, the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers wrote that \"children are used as messengers and couriers, and in some cases as fighters and suicide bombers in attacks on Israeli soldiers and civilians. All the main political groups involve children in this way, including Fatah, Hamas, Islamic Jihad, and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.\"\n\nAn Israeli army report accused Palestinian groups of exploiting children by using them for \"smuggling, digging tunnels, spying and intelligence-gathering\" and by inciting them to violence, as their youthful appearance allows them to more easily approach soldiers and get through check points. The report also noted that much of Palestinian society disapproves of these methods, but accused the Palestinian Authority of not taking appropriate measures to prevent their occurrence.\n\nBelow is a summary of tables of child fatalities from 1987 to 2012 presented by B'Tselem. It provides an overview of killings of Israeli children by Palestinian militants and of Palestinian children, largely by Israeli security forces. Per the below, the Israeli government disputes some of these numbers, especially regarding the Gaza War.\n\nThe First Intifada of mass protests and rioting by Palestinians in the occupied West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza started in 1987, and children frequently participated. In an article in the London Review of Books, American professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt claimed that the Israel Defense Forces (\"IDF\") encouraged troops to break protesters' bones. The Swedish branch of Save the Children estimated that during the first two years of the intifada, between 23,600 and 29,900 children required medical treatment for such beating injuries and that nearly a third were under the age of ten. The Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs lists 24 Israeli child fatalities between 1993 and 1999.\n\nAs the B'Tselem summaries show, from the outbreak of the Second Intifada starting in 2000, through the 2008–2009 Gaza War, to September 2012 there were a greater number of child fatalities. A study by the International Institute for Counter-Terrorism covering September 2001 to January 2005 found that 46 Israelis and 88 Palestinians were below the age of 12 at the time of their deaths. The youngest victim of violence during the Second Intifada was an Israeli infant who was nine hours old at the time of his death. Other Israelis, children among them, were killed abroad in attacks related to the conflict. During the 2004–2009 period there were reports of 30 or more Palestinian children and infants dying, including as a result of miscarriage, at Israeli checkpoints where they were held for long periods of time and denied medical care. Additionally, suicide bombings and other attacks have caused Israeli women to suffer miscarriages, and numerous pregnant women have been killed.\n\nCasualties after the three-week Gaza War during the winter of 2008–2009 were disputed. B'Tselem put out a report stating that 320 Palestinian minors under the age of 18 who did not take part in hostilities had been killed by Israeli forces. It was unknown if six other dead children took part, but 19 children between the ages of 16 and 18 who did so also were killed. Defence for Children International reported that 352 children had died as a direct result of Israeli military action. The Palestinian Centre for Human Rights found that 318 Palestinian children been killed. Al Mezan Center for Human Rights found that 355 Gazan children were killed by Israeli forces. According to Amnesty international the Palestinian fatalities included \"some 300\" children. The Israeli military later released its own figures, stating only 89 children under the age of 16 died. According to Elihu D. Richter and Yael Stein of Hebrew University B'Tselem data showed that the overwhelming majority of Palestinian child deaths were male teenagers, suggesting many could have had some role in combat or support for combat.\n\nStudies conducted by Israel's International Institute for Counter-Terrorism indicate that 96 percent of Palestinian fatalities during the Second Intifada were male and that the vast majority of child casualties were teenagers. Israeli fatalities do not show any great inclination in regards to gender or age. B'Tselem statistics indicate that of the Palestinian child fatalities, 75.47 percent were killed in the Gaza Strip, 24.31 percent were killed in the West Bank, and three were killed within Israel while participating in the hostilities. Of the Israeli child fatalities, 65.89 percent were killed within the Israel, 31.01 percent were killed in the West Bank, and 3.10 percent were killed in the Gaza Strip.\n\nThe United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reported that during \"Operation Pillar of Defense\", the November 2012 Gaza-Israel clashes, 30 Palestinian children were killed.\n\nAbout 70 percent of the Israeli children hit were killed in Palestinian suicide bombings. Others were killed in shootings and attacks on cars and buses. In addition, several rapes, kidnappings, and individual murders of Israeli children and teenagers have occurred. Other Israeli children were killed in home invasions, some of them in their own beds or their parents' beds.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, between 2000 and 2004 during the First Intifada \"more than 100 Israeli children... [were] killed and hundreds of others injured in suicide bombings, shootings and other attacks carried out by Palestinian armed groups in Israel and in the Occupied Territories.\"\n\nExamples include:\n\nIsrael Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports that 8,341 Israelis were injured as a direct result of the conflict between 2001 and 2007 but does not specify how many were minors. Frequent rocket fire has also caused many injuries in the post-Intifada period. Permanent disability among children has resulted, including blindness, paralysis, brain damage, and loss of limbs. A 2003 study by Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel concluded, \"Analysis of the injuries sustained by the 160 children hospitalized after these events indicates that most were caused by blasts and penetration by foreign objects. Sixty-five percent of the children had multiple injuries, and the proportion of critical to fatal injuries was high (18%).\"\n\nThe rate of Israeli casualties in total declined following the construction of the West Bank Barrier; suicide bombing rates fell as potential bombers were thwarted before entering into Israeli territory.\n\nThe first recorded incident of Israel Defense Forces killing Palestinian children was in November 1950 when three Palestinian children from the village of Yalo aged 8, 10 and 12, were shot near Dayr Ayyub in the Latrun salient. According to adult witnesses, \"only one man fired at them with a sten-gun but none of the detachment attempted to interfere.\" In February 1953, one of five Arab shepherds shot in al-Burj was 13 years old. During the 1952 Beit Jala raid, 4 children ranging in age from 6 to 14 were killed by machine gun fire.\n\nAccording to Amira Hass, 54 minors were brought to UNRWA clinics with head wounds from August 1989 to August 1993. The Association of Israeli and Palestinian Physicians for Human Rights (PHR-Israel) estimates that a child under the age of six was shot in the head every two weeks during the First Intifada.\n\nAccording to the Defence for Children International (DCI), of the \"595 children killed [29 September 2000 to 30 June 2004] during the Second Intifada, 383, or 64.4%, died as a result of Israeli air and ground attacks, during assassination attempts, or when Israeli soldiers opened fire randomly\" and \"212 children, or 35.6%, died as a result of injuries sustained during clashes with Israeli military forces\". The DCI estimates that from January 1, 2001 until May 1, 2003, at least 4,816 Palestinian children were injured, with the majority of injuries resulting from Israeli army activity while the children were going about their normal activities.\n\nAmnesty International accused Israeli forces of inadequately investigating killings of children during the Second Intifada Intifada, while also condemning the killings of Israeli children by suicide bombings and other attacks by Palestinians.\n\nDuring Gaza War, a three-week armed conflict in the Gaza Strip between Israel and Palestinian militants during the winter of 2008–2009, an \"unprecedented\" number of children were killed or injured, according to the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights which listed 313 killed. The Israel Defense Forces said that 89 \"non-combatants\" under the age of 18 died. B'Tselem reported that 318 minors below the age of 18 were killed. B'Tselem's numbers were disputed. When the United Nations attempted an investigation of high civilian deaths as a possible war crime, Israelis refused to co-operate.\n\nDuring the November 2012 Israel-Gaza clashes, 30 children reportedly were killed.\n\nOther examples of casualties include:\n\n\nA comprehensive three-year study (2009–2012) of Israeli and Palestinian textbooks, regarded by its researchers as \"the most definitive and balanced study to date on the topic,\" found that incitement, demonization or negative depictions of the other in children's education was \"extremely rare\" in both Israeli and Palestinian school texts, with only 6 instances discovered in over 9,964 pages of Palestinian textbooks, none of which consisted of \"general dehumanising characterisations of personal traits of Jews or Israelis\". Israeli officials rejected the study as biased, while Palestinian Authority officials claimed it vindicated their view that their textbooks are as fair and balanced as Israel's.\n\nThe study, published in 2013 by the Council for Religious Institutions in the Holy Land, an interfaith association of Jewish, Christian, and Muslim leaders in Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza, produced different results. The study was supervised by a psychiatrist, Prof. emeritus Bruce Wexler of Yale University and his NGO, \"A Different Future\", and a joint Palestinian-Israeli research team, headed by Professors Daniel Bar-Tal (Tel Aviv University) and Sami Adwan (Bethlehem University), was commissioned. Six Israeli and four Palestinian bilingual research assistants were employed to analyze the texts of 370 Israeli and 102 Palestinian books from grades 1 to 12. The study found that, while most schoolbooks on either side were factually accurate, both Israel and the Palestinians failed to adequately and positively represent each other, and presented \"exclusive unilateral national narratives\". It was found that 40 percent of Israeli and 15 percent of Palestinian textbooks were judged to contain neutral depictions of the other, whereas negative characterizations were discerned in 26 percent of Israeli state school books and 50 percent of the Palestinian ones. Israeli schoolbooks were deemed superior to Palestinian ones with regard to preparing children for peace, but the study praised both Israel and the Palestinian Authority for producing textbooks almost completely unblemished by \"dehumanizing and demonizing characterizations of the other\".\n\nIn 2006 the Anti-Defamation League wrote that Hamas' four-year-old bi-weekly on-line magazine for children, al-Fatah (Arabic for \"the conqueror\"), featured stories and columns praising suicide bombers and attacks against the \"Jewish enemy.\" In 2009 Hamas refused to allow Palestinian children to learn about the Holocaust, which it called \"a lie invented by the Zionists\" and referred to Holocaust education as a \"war crime.\"\n\nMore than 37,000 Palestinian boys, aged 15–17, took part in a Hamas youth training program during the 2012–13 academic year, which has become part of the official state educational curriculum since September 2012. Its purpose is to \"initiate a new generation of Palestinian men in the struggle against Israel\" and included fighting skills, firing a rifle and first aid. The program includes contributions by the al-Qassam Brigades.\n\nIn early 2013 more than 3,000 Palestinian teenagers graduated from Hamas's first high school military training program in the Gaza Strip. Hamas officials said the program, which is an elective course, is aimed at creating a new generation of leaders to struggle against Israel. According to Abu Hozifa, a 29-year-old national security officer who teaches in the program, children are taught to \"honor the national flag and anthem, to strengthen their affinity with the homeland and Jerusalem, the spirit of resistance and the principles of steadfastness. We also prepare them in terms of faith and physical fitness to serve as resistance fighters if they want to be in the future.\"\n\nHamas also runs a two-week camp for 5,000 boys at a Hamas military base. The boys are dressed in military-style uniforms and trained by members of the Hamas National Guard and militants from Hamas' armed wing, the al-Qassam Brigades. They learn karate, street-fighting, and how to throw a hand grenade.\n\nIn 2000, 25,000 Palestinian teenagers learned \"kidnapping, ambushing and using assault weapons\" at a summer camp run by Yassir Arafat's staff who deal with psychological warfare. Lt. General Shaul Mofaz, the IDF's Chief of the General Staff, regarded the camps as \"evidence of the risks of a new Palestinian upheaval\". The Arafat aide who oversees the camps compared the camps to the Israeli Gadna corps for teenagers and said \"We hope that we will achieve our rights through negotiations, so that summer camps like these will cease to exist. ... There is nothing we want more than a full and genuine peace, including Jerusalem, which would allow us to end the weapons-training and concentrate instead on teaching our young people about computers, and swimming and other recreations.\"\n\nIn 2015, a children performed a song at a kindergarten graduation ceremony in the West Bank which included these lyrics: \"If you stretch your hand, it will be chopped off. If you just look with your eye, it will be gouged out. ... We come for you before, and woe betide you if we come back again. You come to this land alive, but you will leave it as body part.\" Yasser Arafat's image accompanied the children on stage as they carried toy guns and wore uniforms. A woman's charity sponsored the ceremony.\n\nIsrael education has presented military service as the primary goal of boys and girls from elementary school to high school. As an example of the Army's central role, Israeli children are encouraged to write letters to Israeli soldiers. In 2010 the IDF announced that as a result of recruitment problems it would introduce \"Mobile Draft Offices\" to visit 700 schools a year to making Israeli teenagers enthusiastic about military service; it also has started text messaging, online chats and other means to contact youth before they are conscripted. In 1999 a member of the Israeli anti-draft group New Profile said about Israel's \"military values\" that \"Children are indoctrinated throughout their whole lives and they're not given a chance to choose.\" The group promotes Profile 21 disability exemptions or explicit conscientious objection as means to avoid service. Israel does prosecute and jail conscientious objectors.\n\nDr. Nurit Peled-Elhanan, of the Tel Aviv University School of Education has said the Gadna military program for high school students \"makes it clear, in no uncertain terms, at the supreme value is the state, and that the norms are established by the state and the army, whatever they may be ... there is no room for hesitation, for criticism or any signs of these. All, including the parents, must contribute to the effort of conscription.\" Hebrew University Professor Matanya Ben Artzi, whose son was arrested for resisting conscription, said \"This is a takeover by the army of the high school, that is meant to be the foundation for a civil society.\" Education Minister Yuli Tamir said \"We educate the pupils to civil and social commitment to the state, which includes military service. If the IDF is helping us encourage this outlook of commitment, then I will support the program.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Kaplan and Gideon Levy, during a weapons display held on Israel's 66th Independence Day in Efrat, numerous photos showed Israeli children dressed in military attire and holding weapons. According to Kaplan, this indicates that not only Palestinian, but groups of Israeli children 'learn to glory violence and aspire towards violence'.\n\nIsraeli Professor Edward Kaufman has written that Israel's faith in military superiority, its use of \"extra-judicial executions\" or \"targeted elimination\" of suspects that often result in deaths of innocents, has exacerbated the conflict. He writes it has resulted in the fact that \"Israeli schoolchildren are among the most violent in the world, a phenomenon believed to be the result of force being an accepted societal means of dispute resolution. An astonishing 43 percent of Israeli children have admitted to bullying others, while one in four Israeli boys admitted to carrying a knife to school for protection. It is only to be expected that Israel's use of overwhelming force to deal with the Palestinians has had a trickle-down effect on society. The culture of violence prevalent in Israel has had a dramatic impact on the most impressionable members of the community: children.\"\n\nIn 2012, a joint study of Palestinian, Jewish-Israeli and Arab-Israeli children found that exposure to political conflict and violence contributed to an increase in aggressive behavior. According to the study, \"Palestinian children were at the greatest risk for exposure to violence across settings as well as at the highest level of aggressive behavior in comparison to the two other groups. Males were uniformly at greater risk than were females for all forms of exposure to violence as well as more aggressive.\"\n\nGadna is an Israeli pre-army military program to prepare high school students for their mandatory service. Gadna was created before the Israeli declaration of independence. During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, trainees served as combatants. Until 1990, Gadna focused on instilling patriotic values in Israeli youth and encouraging immigration of youth to Israel. Nowadays, the program concentrates on increasing motivation to serve in the Army. As of 2007, an estimated minority of 16,000 to 19,000 11th grade pupils annually engage in squad-sized operations, night treks and shooting, with the promise of rewards for excellence when the youth join the Israel Defense Forces. Educators have criticized the program as \"overly militaristic\". The one-week-long program was revised in 2007 to include lessons in combat doctrine, the purity of arms and ethics in combat.\n\nSchooling has been disrupted for both Israeli and Palestinian children. Israeli children at or on the way to school have been killed by Palestinian militants, as in the 1970 Avivim school bus massacre that killed 9 children and injured 25, the 1974 Ma'alot massacre which resulted in the death of 22 elementary school children, the 1992 murder of Helena Rapp, the 1997 Island of Peace massacre where 7 school girls on a class field trip were shot and killed, the 2002 killing of 3 teenagers at the Hitzim yeshiva high school in Itamar, and the 2008 Mercaz HaRav massacre resulting in 8 children killed and 11 injured.\n\nSchools throughout southern Israel are closed when rocket fire from Gaza becomes intense, including those in major cities such as Beersheba and Ashdod. Israeli authorities have reported incidents in which schools were damaged and school buses destroyed by Qassam rockets and mortars.\n\nIsrael has closed schools in the West Bank for months during periods of conflict. In 1989 200,000 students were kept out of class from January to July. During Israeli curfews imposed during 2002 teachers and students created makeshift schools in halls, living rooms and alleys so students would not have to travel by car or bus to get to schools. Israel's separation barrier has separated some students from their schools, leading to long waits at checkpoints. In 2008 Israel closed two charity schools for needy children because Israel suspected they were tied to Hamas. Schools in Gaza also close during clashes, as during the November 2012 Operation Pillar of Defense.\n\nIsraeli weapon strikes in Gaza have destroyed or damaged Palestinian schools. Ninety-three schools were shelled in 2000–2001. During the three-week Gaza War Israeli airstrikes destroyed 18 schools and damaged 280, including United Nations Relief and Works Agency schools. Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip prohibited import of school supplies and school construction materials into Gaza. In 2011, after months of negotiations, Israel allowed in enough material to build 18 new schools.\n\nSettlers also have disrupted schooling of children. In 2002 there was one attempted and two actual bombings of Palestinian schools by Jewish vigilante groups. In 2011 United Nations Special Rapporteur Richard A. Falk said that many Palestinian children have stopped attending school because of frequent settler harassment.\n\nIsrael has maintained a system of socialized health care for all Israelis since its establishment in 1948. A National Health Insurance law was passed in 1995. Coverage includes medical diagnosis and treatment, preventive medicine, hospitalization, surgery and transplants, preventive dental care for children, and other benefits.\n\nThe Israeli-Palestinian conflict, however, has been found to have negative impacts on children's health and medical care. A 2007 study found that stress from the violence in years prior has led to sharply increased levels of alcohol consumption, smoking, and substance abuse among Israeli adolescents. It stated, in part, that \"Close physical exposure to acts of terrorism was positively associated with higher levels of alcohol consumption, binge drinking, and cannabis that were significant before and after we controlled for PTSS and depression.\" The study concluded that there is a high risk of future health complications as a result of these behaviors.\nThe Unit of Emergency Medicine from Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel performed a two-year research and review surrounding the medical care of child terror victims. The results, which were published in 2003, stated, \"During the study period, 41 mass-casualty events (MCEs) were managed by Magen David Adom. Each event involved on average, 32 regular and nine mobile intensive care unit ambulances with 93 medics, 19 paramedics, and four physicians. Evacuation time was 5–10 minutes in urban areas and 15–20 minutes in rural areas. In most cases, victims were evacuated to multiple facilities. To improve efficiency and speed, the Magen David Adom introduced the use of well-trained 'first-responders' and volunteer, off-duty professionals, in addition to 'scoop and run' on-the-scene management.\" It added that, \"Compared to children with non-terrorism-related injuries, the terrorism-related group had a higher rate of surgical interventions, longer hospital stays, and greater needs for rehabilitation services.\"\n\nHospitals in southern Israel have been damaged by Qassam rockets from Gaza, and ambulances have been delayed by Palestinians pelting them with rocks. In 2012, a Palestinian man admitted to poisoning a Jewish family, causing two adults and two children to be hospitalized.\n\nSince the 1990s, and especially since the violence associated with the Second Intifada, Israel has created hundreds of permanent roadblocks and checkpoints staffed by Israeli military or border police. While some are between Israel and the West Bank to prevent possible terrorist attacks, as of September 2011 most were within the West Bank, with 522 such permanent and an average of 495 temporary \"flying checkpoints\". A 2009 United Nations reported stated that the checkpoints were evolving into \"a more permanent system of control\" reducing the space available for Palestinian growth and movement for the benefit of the increasing Israeli settler population. A 2002 incident of a bomb found in a Red Crescent ambulance increased vigilance regarding those vehicles.\n\nIn 2004 psychiatrist Derek Summerfield wrote in an opinion piece in the \"British Medical Journal\" that the then-recent Israeli military reoccupation of the West Bank and Gaza divided communities by \"checkpoints\", put up massive walls like the Israeli West Bank barrier and the Gaza Strip barrier and demolished 60,000 homes. The World Bank estimated that due to these actions Palestinian poverty had tripled in three years with 60% of the population subsisting at poverty level and over half of households eating just one meal daily. The barrier was isolating 97 primary health clinics and 11 hospitals from Palestinian patients. During that time there were 87 cases in which denial of access to medical treatment caused death, including to 30 children, some babies born while women in labor were kept at checkpoints. Summerfield said that Physicians for Human Rights-Israel has criticized the Israel Medical Association for its silence on these issues.\n\nA 2009 The Lancet medical journal report, authored by Dr. Awad Mataria and Dr. Hanan Abdul Rahim, described the healthcare system in the Palestinian territories as \"fragmented and incoherent\". Dr. Rahim said there were gaps in care, a low level of post-natal care, and little decline infant mortality rates compared with other Arab countries that had been able to bring them down. The report cited a United Nations' report that stated more than 60 Palestinian women had given birth at Israeli checkpoints and 36 of their babies died as a result. The physicians blamed conditions of military occupation, Palestinian political instability, inconsistent and fragmented foreign aid donor policies and a focus on emergency aid, as opposed to long-term development inside the Palestinian territories. The World Health Organization reports regularly on health care in the \"occupied Palestinian territory.\"\n\nIn response to the Summerfield opinion piece, Irwin Mansdorf, a member of \"Task Force on Medical and Public Health Issues, Scholars for Peace in the Middle East\" wrote an opinion piece about routine care that Palestinians continue to receive in Israeli hospitals and from Israeli physicians, saying that \"Palestinians receive care in Israel that they could not receive in any neighboring Arab country. In the last few months alone nearly 200 Palestinian children who were referred under a joint Israeli-Palestinian programme to treat children with serious medical conditions have already undergone major surgery at Israeli hospitals at no cost to the families. Another 350–400 Palestinian children have undergone free diagnostic testing.\" Simon M Fellerman also wrote one noting that \"Saving Children\", established by the Peres Center for Peace, enables hundreds of Palestinian children to receive free medical care, in particular cardiac surgery, from Israeli surgeons. In response to the Lancet report, an Israeli government spokesperson said that Palestinians in the territories could receive medical care in Israel itself, noting that 28,000 Palestinians from Gaza had been treated in Israel during the two years covered by the Lancet report.\n\nIn 2011, the Israeli Civil Administration's Health Coordinator, Dalia Bassa and the Commander of the IDF's Alpine unit jointly organized a ski trip to Mt. Hermon in northern Israel for Palestinian children diagnosed with cancer. The children, who were accompanied by parents, family members, and Israeli soldiers from the Alpine Unit, are undergoing treatment at the Augusta Victoria hospital in Jerusalem.\n\nAccidents from children playing with Unexploded ordnance is a low-level but recurrent threat to children's health. The majority of incidents involving unexploded ordnance occurred in the Gaza Strip.\n\n\"Save A Child's Heart\" is a program in which any child with heart problems can receive free medical attention and surgery from select doctors and hospitals within Israel. As of 2009 it had operated on 1000 Palestinian children.\n\nHadassah Medical Center has reported that organ donations in which the recipient is a Palestinian and the donor an Israeli, or vice versa, are not unusual. In one case a Palestinian from Bethlehem received the kidney of an Israeli. The families of Yoni Jesner, a Jewish teenager, and Ahmed Khatib, a Palestinian boy, donated their organs to children from the opposite sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Yoni Jesner died in a suicide bombing in 2002, while Ahmed Khatib was killed by IDF gunfire in 2005. In 2002, 16-year-old Israeli Rachel Thaler was killed along with two other teenagers in a suicide bombing. After her death, Thaler's family chose to have her organs donated.\n\nIn a 2003 United Nations report, Special Rapporteur Jean Ziegler reported that over 22 per cent of children under 5 in the Palestinian territories were suffering from malnutrition and 15.6 per cent from acute anaemia.\" According to the World Bank, food consumption in the Palestinian Territories fell by more than 25 per cent per capita, and food shortages particularly of proteins, were reported. A 2007 Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics poll of Palestinian children in the West Bank and Gaza found that as a result of poverty about 10 percent of Palestinian children suffer \"permanent effects from malnutrition\", including especially stunted growth. In 2010 the Danish government sponsored a survey that found that 10 percent of children in Gaza are malnourished.\n\nIn April 2011, the Israel Defense Forces spokesperson's office made available to the media comments by the deputy director of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the Gaza Strip, who the IDF reported had said that there is \"no humanitarian crisis in Gaza. If you go to the supermarket, there are products. There are restaurants and a nice beach.\" She further said that problems caused by the blockade were \"mainly in maintenance of infrastructure and in access to goods, concrete for example.\"\n\nChristian Science Monitor staff writer Dan Murphy interviewed the spokeswoman for the Red Cross, Cecilia Goin, who said the comments were not provided in full context and thus gave the inaccurate impression \"that everything was OK\" when in fact the situation was still \"dire.\" Murphy, who has been to Gaza, wrote that products in supermarkets and restaurants were \"out of reach\" for most Gazans. He wrote: \"In this context the \"no humanitarian crisis\" means that people in Gaza aren't starving, which is certainly true. The United Nation's Relief and Works Agency provides aid to most of Gaza's 1.5 million people, and has been allowed to bring in food and medical supplies. The Red Cross and other aid groups are active as well.\" He also noted that a 2008 United States diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks stated that \"Israeli officials have confirmed to Embassy officials on multiple occasions that they intend to keep the Gazan economy functioning at the lowest level possible consistent with avoiding a humanitarian crisis\".\n\nA 2012 report jointly issued by aid organizations Save the Children and Britain's Medical Aid for Palestinians found that 10 percent of Gaza children under five had stunted growth due to malnutrition and that 68 percent of pre-school children and 58 percent of children of school age suffered from anaemia. The report stated that the five-year blockade of Gaza Strip, which has prevented importation of necessary supplies and materials, as well as Israel's Gaza War bombing of infrastructure, has led to water being severely contaminated by fertilizer and human waste. Diseases like typhoid and diarrhea, spread by contaminated water, have doubled in children under the age of 3, which has long-term health implications. Open sewage is a problem and in 2012 three children drowned in pools of it.\n\nIn October 2012 an Israeli human rights group forced Israel to disclose a 2008 document that calculated that Gaza's 1.5 million inhabitants needed 2,279 calories per person a day to avoid malnutrition and widespread starvation. The Israeli military disputes critics' claims it used the guidelines during its blockade of Gaza to restrict food shipments to Gaza in order to put pressure on Hamas.\n\nResearchers are finding high levels of post-traumatic stress disorder among Palestinian children. According to some researchers, the average rate of post-traumatic stress disorder among children from both sides of the Green Line is about 70 per cent. Gaza Community Health Programs carried out a study and found that Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) rate for children in Gaza was that 54% suffered from severe PTSD, 33.5% from moderate and 11% from mild and doubtful levels of PTSD. In a report, published in the Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, it was estimated that the rate of psychological morbidity in the southern region of Bethlehem in the West Bank, to be 42.3% among Palestinian children. The rate was 46.3% for boys and 37.8% for girls. These rates, the study reported, were twice the rate of psychological morbidity in the Gaza strip.\n\nAccording to some reports, more than 370,000 Palestinian children have been left shell-shocked by 2014 Israeli war on Gaza.\n\nIsraeli professor Edward Kaufman has written that widespread PTSD among Israeli children is caused by \"the environment of fear resulting from indiscriminate acts of terror.\" According to an Israeli child psychiatrist, about half of the children in Jerusalem, the city hit hardest by Palestinian violence, experience symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, two to three times higher than the rate of children suffering from other causes of trauma. A recent study by Herzog's trauma centre found that 33 per cent of Israeli youth have been affected personally by terrorism, either by being at the scene of an attack or by knowing someone injured or killed by terrorists. Seventy per cent of those surveyed reported increased subjective fear or hopelessness. Studies have found high levels of PTSD in southern Israel which is frequently attacked by rockets and mortars from the Gaza Strip. In particular, frequent air-raid sirens and explosions of incoming projectiles have caused severe psychological trauma in the city of Sderot.\n\nSome images of children in the conflict have been shown to be false, digitally altered, or outdated, and are used to manipulate public sentiment.\n\nDuring the March 2012 Gaza–Israel clashes, Khulood Badawi, an Information and Media Coordinator for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, tweeted a picture of a Palestinian child covered in blood. She was criticized because the child was 5-year-old Raja Abu Shaban, who was killed in 2006 when she fell from a swing, and not in an Israeli attack. Badawi later tweeted that she mistakenly had tweeted an old photo. Ma'an News Agency reported the hospital medical report on the dead girl stated she died \"due to falling from a high area during the Israeli strike on Gaza\". Interviews with relatives, news reports and investigations by human rights organizations also suggest that her death indirectly was caused by an Israeli air strike as little as 100 meters away, though accounts differ on how this occurred. Israeli officials have said that the girl's death had nothing to do with Israel.\n\nOne day later, Ofir Gendelman, a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, tweeted a photo of an Israeli woman and her two children ducking a Gaza rocket describing it as \"when a rocket fired by terrorists from Gaza is about to hit their home.\" When it was proved the photo was from 2009 he said, \"I never stated that the photo was current. It illustrates the fear that people in southern Israel live in.\"\n\nIn early November 2012, Israeli activists reported that several journalists with cameras followed a Palestinian girl as she repeatedly tried without success to provoke a violent reaction from Israeli soldiers. On November 18, Alarab Net, an Arab news site, released a photo of three bloodied children and their mother with the caption \"martyred massacred family in Gaza\". This image turned out to be of Syrian children. Pro-Palestinian activists published a photograph on Twitter of an injured infant held by a rescue worker, writing \"even this young injured Palestinian child doesn't seem surprised or scared, used to Israeli terrorism.\" The baby in the picture was quickly identified as an Israeli injured in a Hamas rocket attack, which also killed her mother. The Washington Post reported at the time on the tendency of both sides in the conflict to politicize photos of injured and dead children.\n\nMany Arab–Israeli peace projects actively involve children and teenagers. For example, Seeds of Peace was founded in 1993 with the goal of creating new generations of leaders in conflict regions that will no longer accept outdated and harmful stereotypes about each other. This would occur by bringing together youth from both sides of conflict regions to literally put a human face on those who were previously perceived as an enemy. The organization, which began with Israeli, Palestinian, and Egyptian teenagers, has expanded to reach Jordan, Morocco, Qatar, Tunisia, Afghanistan, Yemen, India, Pakistan, Maine, Cyprus (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus/Republic of Cyprus), and the Balkans.\n\nChildren of Peace, a charity based in the United Kingdom, is self-described as focused \"upon building alliances with like-minded organisations in the Gaza, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and the West Bank [establishing] projects and programmes in the arts, education, health and sports for Israeli and Palestinian children, aged 4 – 17.\" Richard Martin, who founded the organization in 2005, has stated that he refuses to take sides because \"all children suffer in conflict.\"\n\nMiddle East Education Through Technology (MEET), the Institute for Circlework, TEC-the Center for Teachnologystrives, and focus on educational efforts. Hand in Hand is a network of bilingual (Hebrew-Arabic) schools in which Jewish and Arab children study together. It was founded in 1997 by two Israelis, one Arab and one Jewish, with the philosophy of breaking negative stereotypes, cultivating mutual respect and understanding, and providing a dynamic example that Jews and Arabs can study, work and live together in peace.\n\nHand in Hand has also hosted basketball games organized by PeacePlayers International (PPI) between Israeli and Palestinian teenagers, describing them as \"baby steps\" towards peace. Ala Khatib, a co-principal, said that \"Never mind what is going on outside, whether it's bombing in Gaza or if it's suicide bombing in Tel Aviv, you can't stop school. You have to go to school, you have to face the other side, you have to say good morning, and you have to talk.\"\n\nIn 2005, the United States-based Kabbalah Center and the Palestinian Abu Assukar Center for Peace and Dialogue organized a children's camp for 115 Israeli children and 115 Palestinian children aged 8 to 12 to take place near Tel Aviv at the Ramat Gan Safari Park. The camp, which lasted for four days, involved children from Bethlehem, Ramallah, East Jerusalem, Tulkarem, Jericho, and Jenin. The Israeli children involved were mostly those who came from severe poverty and violent backgrounds. Joint-organizer Osnat Youdkevitch remarked that, \"Our message is that of dignity for all human beings. It's harder for adults to fully understand, since so much has already been built up around us, but kids have the chance to grow up thinking in a healthier way. If you play, eat and sweat for four days with a group of other kids who are supposed to be the 'enemy', it will stay in your heart forever.\"\n\nMifalot is an organization founded by the owners of Hapoel Tel Aviv Football Club to promote peaceful coexistence through football. In 2013, a football match was held in Holon, bringing together Palestinian and Israeli teenagers. However, Fatah activists posted threatening messages on the Internet against the Palestinian boys and girls who participated in the tournament, and Fatah leaders in Ramallah condemned their participation in such events.\n\n"}
{"id": "51240997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51240997", "title": "Cold Fire (Wildfire)", "text": "Cold Fire (Wildfire)\n\nThe Cold Fire was a wildfire that started on August 2, 2016 in the Vaca Mountains, near Lake Berryessa and just west of the city of Winters, in Yolo County, northern California. The fire was contained by 6 PM on August 11 after burning a total of , including two buildings, causing an estimated $100,000 in damage.\n\nThe fire was first reported at 4:36 pm on August 2 near Highway 128 west of Pleasants Valley Road. By sundown mandatory evacuations were ordered for Canyon Creek Campground and Golden Bear Estates. The following day, less than 24 hours after the fire was first reported, it had grown to over . \n\nA Red Cross shelter was briefly setup in Winters but was closed due to lack of use. \n\nBy August 4, the third day, the fire had grown to , with 903 fire personnel members on the ground and the evacuation order for Golden Bear Estates had been lifted. \n\nBy August 6, the fourth day, the fire had grown to with 1,625 fire personnel members on the ground and Highway 128 was re-opened to traffic and Thompson Valley Road at Highway 128 being closed. \n\nThe fire was contained by 6 PM on August 11. The Cold Fire caused an estimated $100,000 in damaged. In total, acres had been burned and two buildings, hunting cabins, had been destroyed. The cause of the fire remains under investigation.\n"}
{"id": "7679992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7679992", "title": "Eta Carinids", "text": "Eta Carinids\n\nThe Eta Carinids are a meteor shower lasting from January 14 to 27 each year, peaking on January 21. C. S. Nilsson of the Adelaide Observatory discovered them in 1961 in Australia. Roughly two to three meteors occur per hour at its maximum. It gets its name from the radiant which is close to the nebulous star Eta Carinae.\n"}
{"id": "41185116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41185116", "title": "Eternal oblivion", "text": "Eternal oblivion\n\nIn philosophy, eternal oblivion (also referred to as non-existence or nothingness) is the permanent cessation of one's consciousness upon death. This concept is often associated with religious skepticism and atheism, and may be based in part on the lack of objective evidence for an afterlife and identifying fallacies in the arguments for an afterlife such as Occam's razor.\n\nAccording to contemporary theories of consciousness, the brain is the basis of subjective experience, agency, self-awareness, and awareness of the surrounding natural world. When brain death occurs, all brain function permanently ceases. Many people who believe that death is a permanent cessation of consciousness also believe that consciousness is dependent upon the functioning of the brain. Scientific research has discovered that some areas of the brain, like the reticular activating system or the thalamus, appear to be necessary for consciousness, because damage to these structures or their lack of function causes a loss of consciousness.\n\nThrough a naturalist analysis of the mind (an approach adopted by many philosophers of mind and neuroscientists), it is regarded as being dependent on the brain, as shown from the various effects of brain damage.\n\nThe English word \"oblivion\" (late 14c.) comes from the Old French \"oblivion\" (13c.) and directly from the Latin \"oblivionem\", meaning \"forgetfulness; a being forgotten\", which also comes from the word \"oblivisci\" (\"to forget\"). Oblivion itself means \"state of being forgotten\".\n\nThomas W. Clark, founder of Center for Naturalism, wrote a paper titled \"Death, Nothingness, and Subjectivity\". He critiqued what he saw as a flawed description of eternal oblivion as a \"plunge into darkness\". When some imagine their deaths (including the non-religious), they project themselves into a future self which experiences an eternal silent darkness. This is wrong, because without consciousness, there is no awareness of space and no basis for time. For Clark, in oblivion there isn't even an absence of experience, as we can only speak of experience when a subjective self exists.\n\nAccording to neuroscientist Giulio Tononi, consciousness is \"all we are and all we have: lose consciousness and, as far as you are concerned, your own self and the entire world dissolve into nothingness.\"\n\nSteven Pinker explains the following in the seminar Is Science Killing the Soul, a discussion with Richard Dawkins presenting evidence against the existence of souls. He elaborates;\n\nIn his book \"The Big Picture\", physicist Sean Carroll asserts that through physics we can demonstrate that death is equivalent to eternal oblivion. He writes;\n\nIn the \"Apology of Socrates\" (written by Plato), after Socrates is sentenced to death, he addresses the court. He ponders the nature of death, and summarizes that there are basically two opinions about it. The first is that it is a migration of the soul or consciousness from this existence into another, and that the souls of all previously deceased people will also be there. This excites Socrates, because he will be able to conduct his dialectic inquiries with all of the great Greek heroes and thinkers of the past. The other opinion about death is that it is oblivion, the complete cessation of consciousness, not only unable to feel but a complete lack of awareness, like a person in a deep, dreamless sleep. Socrates says that even this oblivion does not frighten him very much, because while he would be unaware, he would correspondingly be free from any pain or suffering. Indeed, Socrates says, not even the great King of Persia could say that he ever rested so soundly and peacefully as he did in a dreamless sleep.\n\nCicero, writing three centuries later in his treatise \"On Old Age\", in the voice of Cato the Elder, similarly discussed the prospects of death, frequently referring to the works of earlier Greek writers. Cicero also concluded that death was either a continuation of consciousness or cessation of it, and that if consciousness continues in some form, there is no reason to fear death; while if it is in fact eternal oblivion, he will be free of all worldly miseries, in which case he should also not be deeply troubled by death.\n\nSimilar thoughts about death were expressed by the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius in his first-century BC didactic poem \"De rerum natura\" and by the ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus in his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", in which he writes;\n\nParaphrasing philosopher Paul Edwards, Keith Augustine and Yonatan I. Fishman note that \"the greater the damage to the brain, the greater the corresponding damage to the mind. The natural extrapolation from this pattern is all too clear — obliterate brain functioning altogether, and mental functioning too will cease\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210182", "title": "European Universities Debating Championship", "text": "European Universities Debating Championship\n\nThe European Universities Debating Championship (EUDC) is an annual debating tournament for teams from universities in Europe. The competition uses the British Parliamentary Debate format (the same debate format used at the World Universities Debating Championship).\n\nThe championships as they are known today were first held in Rotterdam, Netherlands at Erasmus University from 8–11 April 1999. Subsequent tournaments were held at a similar time of year until Koc EUDC in 2007 when the tournament shifted to the late summer in order to accommodate all university examination periods across the continent. The competition has also become longer to accommodate the growth of the event.\n\nThe competition in 1999 involved 32 teams of two speakers, but has now grown to involve up to 200 teams each year. Institutions can enter more than one team based on the ability of the organisers to accommodate them. Some institutions also enter teams from more than one separate debating societies within their institution.\n\nParticipating teams are drawn principally from European tertiary education institutions, although teams from the Middle East and central Asian institutions are eligible pending the formation of similar competitions in their regions. Students at the Inns of Court are also eligible subject to some conditions.\n\nThe current European Champions in the Open category are Noam Dahan and Tom Manor from Tel Aviv University, Israel.\n\nThe 'English as a Second Language' category was won by Ido Kotler and Amichay Even Chen from Tel Aviv University.\n\nThese are the institutions (universities or debating bodies) that have hosted or will host the European Universities Debating Championships.\n\nIn 1999, the EUDC Council was formed as the highest decision making organ. Every competing nation has one vote. The council sits during the tournament. It decides on the constitution, criteria regarding eligibility issues, and about the hosts of future championships.\n\nThe EUDC Committee consist of a president, who also chairs the council, a secretary, a registrar, the hosts of the current tournament and the past tournament and regional representatives for central and eastern Europe, for Northern and Western Europe, South-East Europe, the middle east and the Islands of the North Atlantic.\n\nMinutes of EUDC Council and the Constitution are published on the EUDC Council Website\n\nThe current chair of council and president of the committee is Jan-Gunther Gosselke from the Debattierclub St Gallen from Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38077550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38077550", "title": "Exploits Valley Salmon Festival", "text": "Exploits Valley Salmon Festival\n\nThe Exploits Valley Salmon Festival is an annual festival held in Grand Falls-Windsor of the Exploits Valley, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada that dates back to 1985. Events that are part of the festival include a dance in a stadium and a dinner of salmon. There is also a concert, although the concert in 2007 was so poorly attended that the organisers lost $200,000 on it. The organisers continued to lose money on the festival in 2008, 2009, and 2010. Businessman Boyd Cohen was the patron of the 2009 festival. The main festival concert in 2010 featured Matthew Hornell and the Diamond Minds. There was also a gospel concert that was attended by hundreds of people. Kellie Loder, Starfield, and Reverend Roy Martin performed at this concert. In 2012, \"The Daily Telegraph\" named the festival one of the top ten attractions for British foodies vacationing in Canada. In 2011, The town signed a deal with concert promoters RFO. As a result, the festival experienced a resurgence attracting larger crowds, The shows were headlined by popular groups such as Kiss, Smash Mouth and Down with Webster in 2011, Aerosmith & Flo Rida in 2012, The Eagles and The Tragically Hip in 2013, Maroon 5 in 2014 and John Fogerty, Tom Cochrane, America and The Fables (making their first public performance in 12 years) in 2015.\n\nThe 2013 concert headlined by The Eagles was panned by critics for the poor planning. The temperature rose to approximately 30 degrees Celsius and many concert goers complained in regards to lack of available water as patrons were not permitted to bring their own. (concession stands reportedly ran out twice). according to reports more than 100 people had to be treated for dehydration. VIP ticket holders complained too many tickets were sold for the private section on the field and made the concert unenjoyable. Such complainants had told media outlets they were considering a class action lawsuit but it never materialized.\n\nThe 2014 concert achieved controversy during the planning stages. The town frequently delayed making an official announcement in regards to who would headline the show. Mayor Al Hawkins appeared on local radio commenting that the date would not be changed from a planned July 9th date. But despite this only a week later the concert was officially announced to take place on July 16th and would be headlined by Maroon 5. Many complained about the date change and were unimpressed with the lineup, expecting a more \"legendary\" act as in the past 3 years and cited lack of variety of types of music. as a result attendance was only 8,500 (less than 1/3 of the previous year) and the town reported a near $500,000 loss. the town denied any belief the date change lead to a low turnout instead blaming it on the media backlash from the previous year. \n\nIn 2015, The town opted to buy out of their contract with RFO in response to the previous year's disappointment. The salmon festival success was threatened however, when the city of St. John's announced the date of their Confederation concert headlined by the legendary Rod Stewart would take place on the same date as the salmon festival concert. The own attempted to compete by announcing the salmon festival would headlined by John Fogerty and would feature Tom Cochrane, America and The Fables. Also, organizers allowed patrons to leave the grounds and return later (via a bracelet system) until 7pm. Despite rave reviews the concert was attended by only 5,500 people and a $667,000 loss. Later reports revealed promoters had advised the town to cancel the concert beforehand due to early tickets sales being poor but the decision to go ahead was narrowly passed by town council. reports also said John Fogerty had been paid $655,000 to perform at the show while Tom Cochrane and The Fables were paid a meager (by comparison) $52,000 and $10,000 respectively. \n\nThe over $1 million in losses collectively over the previous 2 years lead to questions over the future of the yearly event. however, council announced the 2016 concert would go ahead but that it would be the end of the \"mega concert\". They would later announce a lineup consisting of headliner Trooper as well as The Stampeders and Newfoundland favorite Buddy Wasisname and the Other Fellers. the rest of the lineup consisting of local bands. \n"}
{"id": "55136242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55136242", "title": "Faith Hedgepeth homicide", "text": "Faith Hedgepeth homicide\n\nThe body of Faith Hedgepeth (born September 26, 1992), an undergraduate student in her third year at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNCCH), was found in her apartment by a friend on the morning of September 7, 2012. She had been beaten over the head with a blunt instrument, later found to be an empty liquor bottle, and very likely raped. The last time she was known for certain to be alive was much earlier that morning, when she went to bed after returning from a local nightclub with her roommate.\n\nPolice have recovered considerable forensic evidence in the case, but so far it has served to eliminate one likely suspect, a former boyfriend of her roommate who reportedly expressed anger and resentment toward Hedgepeth, even supposedly threatening to kill her if he could not reunite with her roommate. His DNA, however, did not match that left at the scene. A note left at the scene, suggesting the writer was jealous, is also believed to have been written by the killer; it was among a large group of documents released by police two years after the crime, following a court action brought by several local media outlets.\n\nFour years after the killing, a Virginia DNA testing company prepared and released, at police's behest, an image showing what the suspect might look like based on his genetic phenotype. A voicemail possibly accidentally recorded by Hedgepeth may also capture some of the events that led to her death. The Chapel Hill police continue to investigate.\n\nA member of the Haliwa-Saponi Native American tribe recognized by the state of North Carolina, Faith Hedgepeth was born in 1992 in Warren County, part of the tribe's traditional territory. Her parents divorced within a year of her birth, and she was raised by her mother, with help from an older sister, in Hollister and Warrenton. Connie Hedgepeth named her third daughter Faith because she believed that was what she needed to raise a fourth child when she already had two sons and a daughter and a husband with a drug problem.\n\nIn high school, Hedgepeth was an honor student, a cheerleader and a member of many extracurricular clubs and organizations. She did well enough academically to earn a Gates Millennium Scholarship to attend the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Her father had attended UNCCH as well, but dropped out; she hoped to be the first in her family to graduate from college. After that, she was considering further studies to become either a pediatrician or teacher.\n\nHer first two years at the university went well for her; although she took the spring 2012 semester off. She remained in the Chapel Hill area over the summer, living in an off-campus apartment at the Hawthorne at the View complex between Chapel Hill and Durham, on the line between Durham and Orange counties, during the month of August; she planned to move to another apartment after her financial aid for the fall semester was made available to her. She shared the apartment with Karena Rosario, whom she had been friends with since freshman year, and Rosario's boyfriend, Eriq Takoy Jones.\n\nThe relationship between Jones and Rosario had been marked by domestic violence, and eventually she ended it and he moved out. However, he had in early July 2012 twice attempted to break into the apartment, even after Rosario changed the locks. Hedgepeth drove her roommate to court to get a protective order that required Jones to stay away from the apartment. Jones reportedly resented Hedgepeth's influence over his former girlfriend, and at one point reportedly threatened during a phone conversation with Hedgepeth to kill her if he could not get back together with Rosario.\n\nThe evening of September 6, 2012, a Thursday, began at 5:45 p.m. with Hedgepeth attending a rush event for the campus chapter of Alpha Pi Omega, a historically Native American sorority she hoped to join. At 7:15 she left, saying she had to work on a paper she was writing about the history of her tribe. She and Rosario went to the university's Davis Library to study together at 8 p.m. Between 8:30 and 9 she exchanged texts with her father about her hopes to join the sorority. \n\nHedgepeth left Rosario there briefly and returned around 11:30, after which they returned to their apartment together, arriving there around midnight. A half-hour later they left again, heading for Thrill, a nightclub in downtown Chapel Hill which admitted customers under the legal drinking age of 21 to dance. The two young women arrived at Thrill around 12:40 a.m. After almost an hour and a half of dancing, Rosario told police later that she was having an upset stomach and wanted to leave. Security cameras at the club show she and Hedgepeth leaving at 2:06 a.m.; it is the last visual record of her presence anywhere before the killing.\n\nBy 3 a.m. Hedgepeth and Rosario had returned to their apartment. A woman who lived below the two and was awake watching television said that she heard three thumping noises, which she described as similar to a heavy bag being dropped or furniture being overturned, shortly afterward. Hedgepeth's Facebook page was also accessed around the same time.\n\nAt 3:40 a.m., a text was sent from Hedgepeth's phone to that of Brandon Edwards, a former boyfriend of hers, saying \"Hey b. Can you come over here please. Rosario needs you more aha. You know. Please let her know you care.\" Three minutes later, another text was sent from Hedgepeth's phone to Edwards' with the single word \"than\", believed to be a correction for the \"aha\" in the previous text. That was the last evidence of activity from her phone; at 4:16 Edwards sent a return text asking who the previous text was from.\n\nRosario's phone records show she was also trying to call Edwards around the same time. He did not answer, and when he did not she tried to call Jordan McCrary, a UNCCH soccer player she knew. At 4:25 a.m., she left the apartment to get in McCrary's car. At that time, Rosario said later, she believed Hedgepeth was asleep in her room, and left the apartment's door unlocked.\n\nMcCrary drove Rosario to the home of another acquaintance on West Longview Street in Chapel Hill. She put the time of her arrival there at around 4:30 a.m. After spending the rest of the night and the early morning there, a short time after 10:30 she began trying to arrange a ride home. After attempting to reach Hedgepeth, who did not answer, Rosario instead called another friend, Marisol Rangel, who came and took her back to her apartment.\n\nWhen they arrived there, shortly before 11 a.m., they entered and called for Hedgepeth, who did not respond. In her bedroom, they found her bloodied body, wrapped in a quilt, partially nude. They immediately dialed 9-1-1 and informed police.\n\nDetails of the investigation were not discussed publicly at first, a deviation from the Chapel Hill police's usual practice; the town obtained a court order sealing all records as they were collected. Police collected semen from the scene and used it to develop a DNA profile; it reportedly was consistent with male DNA found elsewhere in the apartment. The autopsy determined that Hedgepeth had died from blunt force trauma to the head, likely a result of being hit by an empty rum bottle in the apartment.\n\nJones seemed to be a very strong suspect from the beginning. Police learned of his history of domestic violence and his threat against Hedgepeth. They also found that the night before, around 6 p.m., he had texted an acquaintance asking for forgiveness \"for what I am about to do\" and then posted the same message on his Twitter feed. Three days later, he changed the banner on his Facebook page to read \"Dear Lord, Forgive me for all of my sins and the sins I may commit today. Protect me from the girls who don't deserve me and the ones who wish me dead today.\"\n\nPolice sought a DNA sample from Jones, who they considered a person of interest; after some initial resistance, he complied. It did not match the one from the apartment, and they excluded him as a suspect. DNA from Edwards and many other men who police found had been at Thrill during the same time as Rosario and Hedgepeth was also tested, with the same result.\n\nWithin days the university's board of trustees, the local Crime Stoppers chapter, the Haliwa-Saponi tribe and the apartment complex had offered a combined $29,000 in reward money for information leading to an arrest. Police hoped the reward money would lead to a quick resolution of the case, as their resources were limited. In the 2008 murder of Eve Carson, at the time UNCCH's undergraduate student body president, a $25,000 reward had led to the killers' arrest. Two months later the office of governor Bev Perdue added another $10,000 to the reward for Hedgepeth's killer.\n\nIn November, \"The Daily Tar Heel\", UNCCH's student newspaper, petitioned the judge who had ordered the investigation records sealed to release an early search warrant in the case. Instead the judge ordered it resealed for another 45 days. At that time the Chapel Hill police had not even released Hedgepeth's cause of death, although her parents told the media that their daughter's death certificate said she had been beaten.\n\nPolice announced in January that the DNA from the scene had come back as belonging to a male. From the crime scene and other evidence the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had developed a profile of the man. They said it was likely that he had lived near Hedgepeth in the past, had expressed an interest in her and his behavior may have changed since the crime, including showing an unusual interest in the case. Notwithstanding this release of information, the town successfully petitioned the court to keep the warrants under seal, saying that phase of the investigation was still not complete; in May 2013 the court extended the seal another 60 days.\n\nIn September 2013, a year after the killing, Chapel Hill police formally requested the assistance of the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, which had provided some help earlier in the investigation, with the case. \"We're working the case hard, and we've used all the possible resources\", said Chief Chris Blue. However, he would not share any more information about the case.\n\nTwo months later, the \"Tar Heel\" noted that the Hedgepeth case remained open, along with the death of David Shannon, a UNCCH freshman whose body had been found on the grounds of a Carrboro cement plant the previous October 27 (while he had died from a fall, the autopsy found he was severely intoxicated, and the Carrboro police suspected hazing and believed there might be other students who could tell them more about the circumstances of Shannon's death). In Hedgepeth's case, there had been no new information about a possible suspect since January. Yet the case records remained under court-ordered seal.\n\nIn March 2014 the \"Tar Heel\" was joined by the Raleigh \"News & Observer\" and Capitol Broadcasting Company, which owns three television and radio stations in the Research Triangle area, in opposing the district attorney's motion to extend the seal another 60 days. They argued that the order was not justified by a compelling interest on the state's part, and that some of the orders had been issued before the records covered by them had been created, meaning the argument for sealing them was speculative. During a hearing on the motion, the district attorney filed a more specific accounting of what investigative work had been done, allowing the media to report for the first time on what police had searched in the immediate aftermath of the crime. \"Eighteen months goes by and no one's been charged and no one's been arrested\" said a lawyer for the \"Tar Heel\". \"The public has the right to assume the trail has gone cold, or it's not being investigated in a diligent manner.\" In response the district attorney's office argued that releasing the detailed records at that point would definitely hinder the investigation, and the records remained under seal.\n\nThe following month, Chelsea Dulaney, a reporter who had originally covered the case at the \"Tar Heel\", wrote an article on the \"Atavist\" platform taking a skeptical look at the sealing. She speculated that the seal's real purpose was to conceal early missteps by the Chapel Hill police, who might also not have been competent enough to handle the investigation all by themselves. The town's court filings, she noted, revealed that after the first two months of the investigation no new search warrants had been sought. \"We have to ask, how hot is it?\" asked one of the lawyers representing the media.\n\nDulaney talked to the residents of the apartments at Hawthorne at the View who lived near Hedgepeth and Rosario. They told her that during the preceding summer, they strongly suspected the domestic violence later reported between Rosario and Jones; they thought the police presence on the day the body was found was related to that until they learned otherwise.\n\nTwo of the neighbors told Dulaney that while the police sealed off the four-unit block where Hedgepeth and Rosario lived with crime scene tape, they only searched the women's apartment and not any of the others in it. Nor did they search the woods behind the apartments, and they only returned later to search one other apartment in the complex. They did not seem to canvass the area, either, never knocking on doors and asking residents what they might have seen. The police also left Hedgepeth's car unsecured while they searched the apartments.\n\nWhen the State Bureau of Investigation officers began investigating the case late in 2013, they also interviewed residents of Hawthorne at the View. One resident who spoke to Dulaney said it was clear to her that the SBI investigators were better trained than their Chapel Hill counterparts had been. The agent who interviewed her asked questions that elicited more useful information from her, she recalled.\n\nIn downtown Chapel Hill, Dulaney talked to the owner of a towing service who had the contract for the Thrill's parking lot. He had set up a system of security cameras to monitor activity in the club's parking lot that might have possibly recorded anything that happened outside of the club involving Hedgepeth and Rosario while they were there that morning, or after they left. The police did not ask to see it until shortly before Dulaney wrote the article, almost 19 months after the crime. By that time, he told her, any footage from that night had been long since recorded over.\n\nThe court ordered the records unsealed in July 2014. The media organizations were able to review and report on the search warrant applications and the investigative notes that had supported them, with most names redacted, for not only the residences and cars but Hedgepeth's phone, computer, Facebook records and bank account. Also released was the transcript of Rosario's 9-1-1 call, and the content of the early-morning text messages as well as the timeline of Rosario and Hedgepeth's actions the night before the body was found.\n\nIn September 2014, almost two years after Hedgepeth's death, the autopsy report was released. It confirmed what was on her death certificate, that she had died of blunt force trauma to the head. She had numerous cuts and bruises as well as blood under her fingernails, suggesting she had struggled with her killer. The DNA taken from the semen was matched to DNA elsewhere at the scene.\n\nThe released records included the recording of Rosario's 9-1-1 call and two pieces of evidence that were seen as potentially helpful in narrowing down the killer's identity. The DNA profile was also used later to generate an image of the potential suspect. \"Investigators have excellent evidence in this case,\" Chief Blue said when the documents were released. \"This is not a cold case. It has been and remains an active investigation.\"\n\n\"News & Observer\" reporter Tom Gasparoli, who covered the case extensively for his newspaper, has also devoted most of his own blog to pondering the evidence and keeping the case alive. To him, Rosario's call raised many questions. \"To me, the whole call reeks of unusual,\" he wrote in 2017 on the case's fifth anniversary.\n\nGasparoli raised the possibility that Rosario's friend Marisol Rangel, whose voice sounds to him more like the constantly sobbing caller, was the real caller, only later identifying herself as Rosario after repeated requests from the dispatcher for her name. And if it was Rosario, she never mentions that Rangel accompanied her to the apartment. The caller also does not mention Hedgepeth's name in a call that lasts nearly eight minutes, only describing the body she has come upon as \"her friend.\"\n\nAnd why, Gasparoli asked, does the caller seem reluctant to touch Hedgepeth's body despite repeated pleas from the dispatcher to at least see if she is still breathing? If Rosario was not able to bring herself to do so, could she not have asked Rangel to do so? \"I have often thought,\" Gaparoli wrote,\"[that] if it was [Rosario], that she didn't call 9-1-1 the moment she first saw [Hedgepeth].\"\n\nAmong the evidence collected was a note left near Hedgepeth's body with the text:\n\nIt was sloppily written in ballpoint pen on what was determined to be the torn-off bottom of a white paper bag of the type commonly used for carry-out food. Police believe the bag may have come from Time-Out, a popular 24-hour restaurant in Chapel Hill that would have been the only place open at the time Hedgepeth and Rosario left Thrill. It uses such bags and is a short distance away from the nightclub.\n\nInvestigators have not said whether they have had the handwriting analyzed. The website \"Crime Watch Daily\" had an expert, Peggy Walla, look at photos of the note. She noted that it was clean of the blood reportedly found splattered all over the room, suggesting it was written either away from the crime scene or beforehand. The writer may have been using their non-dominant hand in an attempt to disguise their handwriting. Walla believes the writer was particularly agitated, likely to the point of homicidal rage, by being called \"stupid\".\n\nIn his fifth-anniversary post, Gasparoli said a law enforcement source he talked to about the case refused to comment on whether the note was \"odd\" even as the source answered other questions. He elaborates that the words may have been intended to be read in a different order, producing wording that makes more sense (\"I'm not jealous ... stupid bitch\", for instance). In addition he theorizes that more than one writer may have been involved, or that not all of it may have been written at the same time.\n\n\"Stupid\", especially, looks to Gasparoli as if it might have been written separately from the other words, as it is written much more clearly and off to the side. The swash extending leftward from the counter on the \"P\" in \"STUPID\", struck him as unusually distinctive. \"[It] looks quite different, much more precise than any other letter in the note,\" he says. It seems to Gasparoli to suggest a female writer, or at least one calmer and more intelligent than the lettering elsewhere on the note.\n\nGasparoli questioned in fact what purpose would be served by leaving it there. As a message to Hedgepeth it made no sense to leave it next to her body if she was dead; if it was written by the killer or killers it could have been particularly incriminating evidence and they had to be aware of that possibility. It looked to him, in fact, \"[a]lmost as if it were a red herring ... left for some other reason than to reflect the real feelings of the killer(s). Left ... to confuse.\"\n\nA friend of Hedgepeth's shared with police a long conversation, perhaps inadvertently recorded, when Hedgepeth's phone pocket-dialed them on the night before the murder, that may have some bearing on the case. It consists of a three-way conversation, three minutes long, between what appears to be Hedgepeth and a male and female, with music in the background. It was timestamped at 1:23 a.m., when the timeline of that night has her at the Thrill.\n\nIt was seen as mostly inaudible and of minimal evidentiary value until \"Crime Watch Daily\" hired audio expert Arlo West, who specializes in enhancing such recordings. He claimed he heard Hedgepeth crying for help while the male says \"I think she's dying\" and the female says \"Do it anyhow\" after a long discussion in which the female seems to get angrier. The male and female use the name \"Eric\" and \"Rosie\" respectively. Hedgepeth's father is convinced what was recorded was of his daughter's death; West agrees.\n\nThe website informed the Chapel Hill police of West's findings, and they agreed to consider West's enhanced version and evaluate it. However, due to the time of the message they do not believe it to be a recording of the killing; the music in the background further suggests it was recorded at Thrill. Several months later they added that the metadata associated with the call reinforces this belief. \n\nWest, for his part, cites a known software issue with phones like Hedgepeth's that resulted in inaccurate timestamps. He discounts the background sound as being music, since his analysis did not produce any sounds like percussion, a heavy bass or synthesizers. Further, he adds, there are none of the background sounds, like glasses clinking and others talking, that one would associate with a nightclub.\n\nOn a September 23, 2016, episode of the ABC News program \"20/20\", Chapel Hill police released an image generated by Parabon NanoLabs, a genetic testing company in Reston, Virginia, of what the suspect who left the semen might look like based purely on the phenotype in his DNA profile. Parabon's president told ABC that Snapshot, the program his company used to create the image, \"predicts eye color, hair color, skin color, freckling, face morphology and ancestry.\" The image included a chart listing the probability that the suspect had the traits he was assigned.\n\nAccording to the image, the suspect was \"very strongly Native American and European mixed ancestry or Latino\". Most of his genetic markers pointed to Mexican, Colombian and Iberian ancestry, with some other South American and African countries making up the balance. Parabon believed with over 80% confidence that the suspect would have a skin tone in the olive range, with very few freckles or none at all and black hair. It did not make any predictions as to his height and weight.\n\nChapel Hill police have not named any suspects or even persons of interest in the case, but have stated that they do not believe the killing was a mere crime of opportunity by a stranger, that instead it was committed by someone in her social group, likely someone who knew her through UNCCH. They are certain the killer or killers knew Hedgepeth, and have interviewed 2,000 people, with DNA tests done on 750 of those. They have mapped the relations of many those interviewees with Hedgepeth and each other, and have reportedly narrowed a pool of a thousand possible suspects down to ten. \"This is not a cold case. It's never been a cold case\", Chief Blue told Gasparoli in 2016. \n\nA year later Gasparoli said that he believed that the killer was \"just outside\" Hedgepeth's closest friends and acquaintances. \"Good chance this person didn't know [Hedgepeth] or investigators would know who it was,\" he wrote. They may, however, have been acting out of anger at some grievance she caused to someone closer to her.\n\nBlue declined to answer Gasparoli's question at that time as to whether investigators believed more than one person had been involved. \"It's a piece of the puzzle we do not have if we connect the direct physical evidence,\" Celisa Lehew, who took over the case as the department's new chief investigator in 2016, told the reporter regarding that theory. \"There was some knowledge that two people lived there.\"\n\nSpeculation has sometimes focused on Rosario, Hedgepeth's roommate at the time, due to her 9-1-1 call, the last texts sent from Hedgepeth's phone to her former boyfriend suggesting \"[Rosario] needs you more than you know\", the woman addressed as \"Rosie\" on the voicemail conversation and her decision to leave the apartment unlocked with, she claims, a sleeping Hedgepeth inside, to go sleep somewhere else at 4:30 the morning of the killing. Although she has left North Carolina and said very little about the case since then, Gasparoli wrote in 2017 that he learned from his police sources that they still regularly speak with her, and she cooperates. \"They do believe there is more Rosario can tell them,\" he says. \"[It] sounds to me like [Rosario] has been in the crosshairs ... as a key figure who knows more than she says she knows.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21599029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21599029", "title": "Four-State Tornado Swarm", "text": "Four-State Tornado Swarm\n\nThe Four-State Tornado Swarm was a destructive outbreak of tornadoes in New England on August 15, 1787. At least five separate tornadoes caused major damage in the states of Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. Two people were killed by a tornado in Wethersfield, Connecticut, and many were injured throughout New England. This event is considered to be the first true tornado outbreak on record.\n\nThe first storm damage occurred in Litchfield, Connecticut, where a strong northwest wind and hail stones weighing more than damaged crops and broke windows. Four men were struck by lightning, but survived.\n\nThe first tornado touched down near New Britain, Connecticut, between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m., moving east-northeast. A barn roof was blown away. The tornado then passed through Newington on its way to Wethersfield. The tornado there was described as \"[whirling] with amazing velocity and a most tremendous roar.\" It passed through a mostly-uninhabited part of the town; if the path were more than further north or south, the tornado \"would have been fatal to a large number of families.\" The tornado traveled slightly north of east, and struck just one home. The inhabitants fled the house upon the sight of the tornado: two young boys, a laborer, and a mother and baby were overtaken by the tornado in a nearby field. The two boys were found amid some rubble, one dead and one was \"feared mortally wounded.\" The mother was killed as well, but the baby who was in her arms survived with only minor injuries. The laborer was thrown over a fence but only slightly injured. Their house was unroofed, and several outbuildings were \"leveled with the ground\". Clothes from the house were found three miles away, and trees and boards were carried or more.\n\nThe tornado continued east-northeast from Wethersfield, leveling almost all trees in its path, until it reached Glastonbury. There it damaged several homes and barns, including an unroofing of a large brick home, but only injured two people slightly. The damage continued into at least Bolton and Coventry, where more damage was done, but any specific damage done or human casualties are unknown.\n\nThe second tornado was spotted west of East Windsor. It moved northeast away from the center of town, but did damage to a home and a barn. Trees in diameter were twisted down, and even sod and stones \"of a considerable size\" were torn up. No injuries were reported, however.\n\nThe third tornado of the outbreak was a long-tracked tornado, first spotted in Killingly, Connecticut. It moved northeast into Rhode Island to near Glocester. Orchards were destroyed there, and a house and barn were \"torn to pieces\" while the family took shelter in the cellar. Several other homes were unroofed, and a woman was carried some distance, but only suffered minor injuries. The tornado continued northeast into Massachusetts as far as Mendon, from where it touched down.\n\nThe fourth known tornado was first spotted near Northborough, Massachusetts. The tornado caused more severe damage along the border between Marlborough and Southborough. In Marlborough, a barn was thrown from its foundation. A house's roof was destroyed, with pieces scattered away. In Southborough and Framingham, many structures were damaged. A house in Framingham was destroyed while two women were inside, but they suffered only bruises. The tornado dissipated east of Framingham. Many crops were destroyed by winds and floods.\n\nObservers reported seeing pieces of buildings, furniture, and trees thrown about in the air. Severe tree damage was reported all along the tornado's path. Along the tornado's route, the damage was not more than wide, and in some places was much narrower, though the damage was greatest in these areas.\n\nThe final tornado of the day occurred much further north in the town of Rochester, New Hampshire. A house was lifted from its foundation with eight people inside, but only two were injured. Pieces of the house were found distant. A barn was \"taken and entirely carried off\" by the tornado, and was not found. Trees, fences, and crops were leveled along the tornado's path, which was around wide. Considerable damage also occurred in Dunbarton, New Hampshire and Concord, New Hampshire, but it is not known if this was not directly connected to the tornado.\n\nThis day was the most extensive tornado event on record at the time, and was the most severe tornado outbreak in early New England history, on par only with the September 1821 New England tornado outbreak. Very few buildings were struck by the tornadoes (though the tornadoes passed close to many highly populated towns) which accounts for the low death toll. However, the destructive potential was high, as indicated by the incredible tree damage in places.\n\nA document was published in the \"Connecticut Courant\" (now the \"Hartford Courant\") a few days later, detailing the appearance of \"a black column from the earth to the cloud\" near Wethersfield. This was the most complete description of a tornado on record until the 1830s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44724007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44724007", "title": "Great Escape Tour", "text": "Great Escape Tour\n\nThe Great Escape Tour was the scheduled second headlining concert tour by Australian recording artist Iggy Azalea in support of her debut album, \"The New Classic\" (2014), its reissue, \"Reclassified\" (2014) and then-upcoming second studio album. The tour was scheduled to visit twenty-one cities across North America over the span of two months, beginning on 18 September 2015 in San Diego, California and concluding on 27 October 2015 in Glendale, Arizona. It was announced on 29 May 2015 that the entire tour was cancelled, with a new tour to be announced with her then-upcoming, later cancelled album in 2016. It was the first of Azalea's tours to be cancelled, with her 2018 Bad Girls Tour also later cancelled.\n\nOn 10 December 2014, when reflecting on the year she has had and the struggles she faced in the years before, Azalea announced plans of an arena tour and a second studio album via her Twitter account. The same day, Azalea revealed the title of the tour and the concept behind it, which is Azalea picturing herself as \"a musical escape artist for people.\" Azalea also revealed that the name of the tour goes along with the title of her upcoming second studio album, which will also be promoted on the tour.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, the North American leg of the tour was officially announced. Presented by AEG, the first leg of tour, which was set to commence on 14 April 2015 in Fresno, California, and was scheduled to visit twenty-four cities across North America during the spring of 2015 before ending on 24 May 2015 in Austin, Texas. Also revealed in the North American leg announcement was that Nick Jonas and Tinashe would be the special guests supporting Azalea on the first leg of the tour promoting their latest individual efforts, \"Nick Jonas\" (2014) and \"Aquarius\" (2014). Azalea's disc jockey, DJ Wizz Kidd, would also support Azalea throughout the tour.\n\nBeginning on 15 December 2014, pre-sale tickets were available to all American Express cardholders through 18 December 2014. The public on-sale followed immediately after with tickets becoming available on 19 December 2014. Platinum and VIP Packages also became available for purchase on AEG's website, in which the packages included premium seating and exclusive autographed merchandise.\n\nIn an interview with \"GQ\", Azalea began to reveal details about the tour's stage, visuals, and concept. When speaking about her main focus of the tour, Azalea stated \"I want everything to be right—everything, from the tour book to what someone wears. Even the right faces for the dancers, and their attitude. Everything is equally important.\" While discussing stage layout, Azalea revealed that she's \"trying to work on the initial stage design\" and that she's \"making a stage that [she can] engage with many people in an arena that big.\" She also noted that she was working with Jamie King, who has also worked with Madonna on her Confessions Tour (2006), which Azalea has stated is a major influence for the tour. Other influences for the tour that she's mentioned include the films \"Xanadu\" (1980) and \"Fantasia\" (1940). In regards to the visuals, Azalea has stated that the tour will include \"color blocking—loud, just obnoxious-type visual things\", that she also characterized as \"Trippy, cool, [and] colorful.\" Azalea also commented on the nature of the show by saying \"The traditional hip-hop arena show is more focused on a DJ. I don't think it has as many props and spectacles as perhaps a pop show, which is also what I would say my show is visually like.\" Overall, Azalea has stated her desire for the show is \"not to be too wacky\" and to be \"a great experience [in which fans feel] really immersed in the whole thing.\"\n\n\"The whole point was to make no compromises, but nothing's changed in terms of my creative vision,\" Azalea told the Associated Press on 18 March 2014, backstage at a show for Samsung Galaxy during SXSW. \"It's very kind of like Patrick Nagel, powerful 80s androgynous women vibe.\" Azalea admitted not wanting to wait until September to launch the tour, \"but because the arenas are so far in advanced booked, it was kind of their next slot.\" She also mentioned taking advantage of the free time to finish recording her second album, \"I didn't anticipate having any time to completely finish it, but now that I have kind of the time, I'd love to have an album at the end of 2015.\"\n\nOn 29 March 2015, Azalea told \"Billboard\" at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, the tour was now under the creative guidance of a new production designer, Baz Halpin, who'd been seasoning the show with a post-apocalyptic vibe, \"It's going to be maybe a bit like Blade Runner, full of dark and '80s ridiculous fare but not in a cliché way,\" also revealing she had parted ways with former tour producer AEG Live over creative differences earlier that month. \"It's been great working with a new person who really understands my vision,\" Azalea said of Halpin, who had also fashioned the set for her performance of \"Trouble\" with Jennifer Hudson both at the iHeartRadio Awards and Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards on the previous day. \"It's taken some of the workload off me that he's able to understand what I'm trying to achieve instead of battling it, or it being lost in translation,\" Azalea continued. \"Some things just work. With Baz, I really don't have to say it; he's thinking what I'm thinking, and it's great. I'm super-excited about the tour,\" she said.\n\nOn 10 March 2015, it was announced the tour was being rescheduled \"due to tour production delays\", according to a statement from Def Jam Recordings. After reports surfaced that the tour was to be cancelled due to lack of promotion and conflict between her and management, Def Jam announced the decision \"to accommodate for creative team availability and tour productions, it was determined that the tour will not be ready this spring.\" They continued, \"It's important to Iggy that she delivers the show she envisaged to share with her fans and that requires more time in development.\" The spring tour was rescheduled to the fall, kicking off on September 18 in San Diego, California. A rep for Azalea also added that \"there's no truth to the rumor that there's any conflict between her and her management.\" The press release issued by AEG Live also noted tickets for dates on the tour would be valid for the new dates in the fall, with the exception of the Baltimore, Las Vegas and Sacramento shows being canceled altogether, also indicating that the opening acts for the spring tour, Nick Jonas and Tinashe, would be replaced. Shortly after the announcement, a message was also posted from Azalea's official Twitter account: \"The tour getting pushed back only means that it'll be way more amazing than it would've been in April. Good things take time.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2015, it was announced that the entire tour had been cancelled, with ticket holders receiving an email that stated \"The Iggy Azalea Great Escape Tour scheduled for this fall has been cancelled and refunds are available at point of purchase. There will be a new tour planned around Iggy's new record to be released in 2016 and we apologize for any inconvenience.\" Azalea stated, \"I'm sad and sorry to let my fans down,\" confirming plans to \"be back on the road when the next album is done.\" She later issued a statement clarifying the cancellation saying she \"had a different creative change of heart,\" in addition to being unable to find new opening acts available for the new dates she thought that would be a good fit for the tour and announcing she would also be taking a break to figure out the progression she wanted for her sound and visuals.\n\nThe tour promoter, AEG Live's senior VP Debra Rathwell, stated they never put its full marketing support behind the tour, explaining, \"As we were not able to fill the support slots on the tour in the fall, due to so many artists already having commitments and working this summer, we had not advertised or promoted the new shows since last winter.\" She added, \"The dates were selling well and were going to do fine,” standing by Azalea’s creative decision to take a break and not exploring a move to smaller venues by clarifying, \"there was no reason to do so. AEG LIVE is committed to her and will be working with her on her new tour.\" Azalea’s booking agency, CAA, also issued a statement, \"The lines of communication between Iggy, myself, and her [Turn First] managers Sarah [Stennett] and Nadia [Khan] have always been open. Iggy is an incredibly talented and creative artist with a clear vision, which she continuously shares with myself and her management team.\"\n\nAfter the tickets for the tour became available to the public for purchase on 19 December 2014, \"Forbes\" reported positive news for ticket sales on the primary and secondary markets. On 7 January 2015, a list compiled by TiqIQ revealed that tickets for Azalea's tour were ranked fourteenth for most expensive concert tickets of the year as of that month. On the secondary market, the average ticket price for Azalea's tour totals in about $167, therefore making the tickets some of the most expensive tickets available on the secondary market. Ticket prices for the tour managed to top artists such as the Foo Fighters, but paled in comparison to artists such as Fleetwood Mac, Maroon 5, and Taylor Swift.\n"}
{"id": "33416204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416204", "title": "Her Majesty's Theatre, Montreal", "text": "Her Majesty's Theatre, Montreal\n\nHer Majesty's Theatre (also known as His Majesty's Theatre) was a theatre located on Guy Street in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. For nearly 65 years it was one of the most important venues for orchestral concerts, recitals, plays, operas, and ballets in that city.\n\nBuilt in 1897-1898 during the reign of Queen Victoria, the theatre was in continual operation until it was demolished in 1963. As the name of the theatre changed with the sex of the monarch of Canada, the theatre was known as His Majesty's Theatre from 1901 to 1952, and then reverted to the title of Her Majesty's Theatre upon the accession of Elizabeth II in 1952.\n\nIt was the home of the Montreal Opera Company (1910-1913), the National Opera Company of Canada (1914), the Montreal Orchestra (1930-1941), and the Opera Guild of Montreal (1942-1963). The theatre was the main venue for the Montreal Festivals from 1940-1946.\n"}
{"id": "53876662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53876662", "title": "Infierno en el Ring (2016)", "text": "Infierno en el Ring (2016)\n\n\"Infierno en el Ring\" (2016) (Spanish for \"Inferno in the Ring\") was a major professional wrestling event produced and scripted by the Mexican \"lucha libre\" promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) that took place on Friday December 25, 2016 in Arena México, Mexico City, Mexico. The show replaced CMLL's regularly scheduled \"CMLL Super Viernes\" show as is tradition with most of CMLL's signature events. The 2016 event marked the eight time CMLL has held a show under that name with previous shows in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Each of the shows has featured a main event, multi-man steel cage match, contested under \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or bet match rules referred to as \"Infierno el el Ring\". According to the rules the loser of the match, the last person to remain in the cage, would be forced to have his hair shaved off per \"Lucha Libre\" traditions.\n\nThe 2016 \"Infierno en el Ring\" event was the second time that female competitors were in the steel cage as La Jarochita, Sanely, Princesa Sugehit, La Vaquerita, Metálica and Zeuxis put their mask on the line while Marcela, Estellita, Dalys and La Amapola risked their hair on the outcome of the match. After eight women escaped the ring Zeuxis pinned La Vaquerita, forcing her to unmask and reveal her real name, Isabel Ordóñez Martínez, per \"lucha libre\" traditions. The show featured four additional matches and was shown live on CMLL's YouTube channel.\n\nThe Mexican wrestling company \"Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre\" (Spanish for \"World Wrestling Council\"; CMLL) has held a number of major shows over the years using the moniker \"Infierno en el Ring\" (\"Inferno in the Ring\"), all of which were main evented by a multi-man steel cage match, the eponymous \"Infierno en el Ring\" match. CMLL has use the \"Infierno en el Ring\" match on other shows, but will intermittently hold a show billed specifically as \"Infierno en el Ring\", with the first such show held in 2008. The show has been an annual feature since 2012, with 2016 being the fifth year in a row CMLL held an \"Infierno en el Ring\" show. In 2012 and 2013 it was a summer show, but since 2014 it has been held in December.\n\nAll \"Infierno en el Ring\" shows have been held in Arena México in Mexico City, Mexico which is CMLL's main venue, its promotional \"home\". In 2016 the show was held on December 25 as part of CMLL's Christmas/New Year's celebrations that also included \"Sin Piedad\" on January 1, 2017. A few days after the press conference it was announced that the show would be streamed live on CMLL's YouTube channel, something CMLL normally did not do for their Sunday shows.\n\nThe event featured five professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n"}
{"id": "643887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643887", "title": "James Dallas Egbert III", "text": "James Dallas Egbert III\n\nJames Dallas Egbert III (October 29, 1962 – August 16, 1980) was a student at Michigan State University who disappeared from his dormitory room on August 15, 1979. The disappearance was widely reported in the press, and his participation in the fantasy role-playing game \"Dungeons & Dragons\" was seized upon by press and investigators alike as being potentially related to his disappearance, propelling the previously obscure game to nationwide attention.\n\nEgbert was born in Dayton, Ohio and grew up in Huber Heights, a Dayton suburb, attending Wayne High School. He was a child prodigy, and entered Michigan State University at age 16, where he majored in computer science. Personal problems cited in the reports of his suicide attempt and disappearance include depression, loneliness, parental pressure, drug addiction, and (according to detective William Dear) difficulty in coming to terms with his homosexuality.\n\nOn August 15, 1979, after writing a suicide note, Egbert left his dormitory room at Case Hall and entered the university's steam tunnels. He consumed some methaqualone, intending to commit suicide, but the attempt proved unsuccessful. After waking up the next day, he went into hiding at a friend's house.\n\nA police search for Egbert began. The story was followed widely in the news media after Michael Stuart, a journalist for the university's newspaper, \"The State News\", published details. Egbert's parents hired a private investigator, William Dear, to find their son. Knowing little about fantasy role-playing games, Dear theorized that Egbert's disappearance was related to his involvement with the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" game, a possibility further promoted in subsequent news media. Students were reported to play live-action sessions of the game in the steam tunnels below the school, and it was speculated that Egbert was injured or otherwise disappeared during such a session.\n\nThe search for Egbert continued unsuccessfully for several weeks, during which Egbert moved to two other houses in East Lansing before finally leaving the city via bus for New Orleans.\n\nEgbert made a second suicide attempt in New Orleans by consuming a cyanide compound, which also failed. He then moved to Morgan City, Louisiana and was employed as an oil field laborer. After four days on the job, Egbert called Dear and revealed his location. Dear traveled to Louisiana (others reported Texas) and recovered Egbert. Upon their meeting, Egbert asked the investigator to conceal the truth of his story. Dear agreed and released Egbert to the custody of his uncle, Marvin Gross, on September 13, 1979.\n\nEgbert died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound on August 16, 1980. In 1984, Dear revealed Egbert's story in \"The Dungeon Master\".\n\nThe idea of \"Dungeons & Dragons\" players acting out real-life sessions in dangerous locations like the steam tunnels and losing touch with reality became ingrained into the cultural consciousness, inspiring movies such as \"Mazes and Monsters\". The perceived link between Egbert's disappearance and \"Dungeons & Dragons\" was one of several controversies linked to the game during the 1980s.\n\nIn 1988, during an investigation into his stepfather's murder, Christopher Wayne Pritchard told the police that he and his friends had mapped the steam tunnels of North Carolina State University for the purposes of incorporating them into their \"Dungeons & Dragons\" role-playing.\n\n\nhttps://www.findagrave.com/memorial/67279730/james-dallas-egbert/photo\n\n"}
{"id": "15847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15847", "title": "January 11", "text": "January 11\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1493436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493436", "title": "Kenneth Feinberg", "text": "Kenneth Feinberg\n\nKenneth Roy Feinberg (born October 23, 1945) is an American attorney, specializing in mediation and alternative dispute resolution. Feinberg was appointed Special Master of the U.S. government's September 11th Victim Compensation Fund and served as the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation. Additionally, Feinberg served as the government-appointed administrator of the BP Deepwater Horizon Disaster Victim Compensation Fund. Feinberg was appointed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to administer the One Fund—the victim assistance fund established in the wake of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. Feinberg was also retained by General Motors to assist in their recall response and by Volkswagen to oversee their U.S. compensation of VW diesel owners affected by the Volkswagen emissions scandal. Kenneth Feinberg is also an adjunct professor at the Columbia University School of Law, University of Pennsylvania Law School, Georgetown University Law Center, New York University School of Law, the University of Virginia School of Law and at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law.\n\nFeinberg was born in Brockton, Massachusetts. He received a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Massachusetts-Amherst in 1967 and a law degree from the New York University School of Law in 1970. He worked for five years as an administrative assistant and chief of staff for U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy and as a prosecutor for the U.S. Attorney General. Before founding his own firm The Feinberg Group (now the Law Offices of Kenneth Feinberg) in 1993, he was a founding partner at the Washington office of Kaye Scholer LLP.\n\nFeinberg has served as Court-Appointed Special Settlement Master in cases including Agent Orange product liability litigation, Asbestos Personal Injury Litigation and DES Cases. Feinberg was also one of three arbitrators who determined the fair market value of the Zapruder film of the Kennedy assassination and was one of two arbitrators who determined the allocation of legal fees in the Holocaust slave labor litigation. He is a former Lecturer-in-Law at a number of U.S. law schools.\n\nFeinberg was the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.\n\nFeinberg and his wife, Diane (\"Dede\") Shaff, have three children and three grandchildren.\n\nAppointed by Attorney General John Ashcroft to be Special Master of the fund, Feinberg worked for 33 months entirely pro bono. He developed the regulations governing the administration of the fund and administered all aspects of the program, including evaluating applications, determining appropriate compensation and disseminating awards.\n\nIn his book titled \"What is Life Worth?\", Feinberg described the eight-part plan which was applied to approaching the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. (i) Identifying someone with sufficient and exceptionally broad experience is mass tort action mediation, litigation, and settlement, which Feinberg possessed through his previous personal experience as a political activist and his work in the Agent Orange compensation settlement. (ii) To support and follow the unprecedented law of Congress for the proportional compensation of victims based on estimated loss from future earnings as a key legislated criterion. Hire a full staff of accountants and attorneys to track and service each claim individually. (iii) Accumulate all the reports and applications, along with counter-claims to gauge and initiate the direct compensation process. How the compensation fund worked was in detail substantially different than the Agent Orange mass tort litigation case. (iv) The place of informed discretion in compensating claimants under the formula of keeping the domain of compensation (p47 of Feinberg's book) under the rule of thumb that 85% of the money should not go to 15% of the 'richest' claimant families, under the principle of \"narrow the gap\" between the largest and the smallest compensations paid to claimants. (v) With a mind to the future, the process of the program should be maintained and serviced as a precedent for future courts to defend in future compensation cases as needed. The actions taken should be uniform in their approach. (vi) There would be \"no substitute for hard work and legal craftsmanship\" of rigorous intellectual honesty. (vii) The support of Edward Kennedy would be recognized throughout the process whom Feinberg knew since 1975 (p7-8). (viii) Law suits were to be discouraged as contrary to the spirit of an enacted Law of Congress legislated to expedite the claim process of victims of September 11.\n\nEarly in the process he was described as aloof and arrogant. Feinberg was subjected to some very public criticism at meetings, in the media and on Web sites. \"I underestimated the emotion of this at the beginning\", Feinberg has said. \"I didn't fully appreciate how soon this program had been established after 9/11, so there was a certain degree of unanticipated anger directed at me that I should have been more attuned to.\"\n\nIt was up to Feinberg to make the decisions on how much each family of a 9/11 victim would receive. Feinberg had to estimate how much each victim would have earned in a full lifetime. If a family accepted the offer, it was not possible to appeal. Families unhappy with the offer were able to appeal in a nonadversarial, informal hearing to present their case however they wanted. Feinberg personally presided over more than 900 of the 1,600 hearings. At the end of the process, $7 billion was awarded to 97 percent of the families.\n\n\"It's a brutal, sort of cold, thing to do. Anybody who looks at this program and expects that by cutting a U.S. Treasury check, you are going to make 9/11 families happy, is vastly misunderstanding what's going on with this program,\" said Feinberg. \"There is not one family member I've met who wouldn't gladly give back the check, or, in many cases, their own lives to have that loved one back. 'Happy' never enters into this equation.\"\n\nFeinberg was able to change the mind of some of his harshest critics. Charles Wolf, whose wife died in the north tower, renamed his highly critical Web site called \"Fix the Fund\" to \"The Fund is Fixed!\". At first he called Feinberg \"patronizing, manipulative and at times, even cruel.\" He later remarked, \"To have one of your sharpest critics follow through on a promise and not only join the program he was criticizing, but promote it to his peers, says a lot about you and the way you have adjusted both the program and your attitude...Today, I have complete faith in you.\"\n\nIn 2005 his book, titled \"What is Life Worth?: The Unprecedented Effort to Compensate the Victims of 9/11\" was published.\n\nFeinberg wrote that a widow of one firefighter cursed him \"I spit on you, and your children.\" for being unfair in his compensation awards .\n\nOn July 5, 2007, it was announced that Feinberg would work pro bono as the chief administrator to the Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund (HSMF). The HSMF was set up by the Virginia Tech Foundation in the aftermath of the April 16, 2007, shooting attacks on the Virginia Tech campus. Feinberg and the university plan to disseminate a set of proposals for comment about distributions to the families in mid-July. The victims or families will have options on the ultimate uses of the funds. Payments would be completed sometime during the fall.<ref name=\"Administrator of 9/11 fund\"></ref>\n\nOn June 10, 2009, Feinberg was appointed by the U.S. Treasury Department to oversee the compensation of top executives at companies which have received federal bailout assistance. As part of his policies, he has suggested to many bank executives that they emphasize long-term stock compensation rather than cash payments.\n\nTreasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, in a statement about Feinberg's rulings on executive pay, said, \"We all share an interest in seeing these companies return taxpayer dollars as soon as possible, and Ken today has helped bring that day a little bit closer.\"\n\nOn June 16, 2010, it was reported that Feinberg was to run a $20 billion fund to pay claims for the BP oil spill. President Obama said that the $20 billion from BP \"will not be controlled by either BP or by the government. It will be put in an escrow account administered by an impartial, independent third party.\" Obama said he and BP's chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, agreed on having Feinberg administer the fund. Feinberg was also selected by Obama to oversee the compensation of top executives at bailed out banks.\n\nBP is agreed to pay Feinberg's six-lawyer Washington, D.C., firm, Feinberg Rozen, a flat fee of $1,250,000 a month for labor and overhead costs, but the full details of compensation are unknown. Feinberg has come under harsh criticism from public interest groups for refusing to disclose the amount of his compensation or the details of his arrangement with the company.\n\nOn December 6, 2010, the Center for Justice & Democracy (CJ&D) sent a letter to Robert Dudley, the CEO of BP, concerning \"serious new issues raised about the lack of transparency and potential conflicts of interest related to the administration of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility.\" In the letter, CJ&D pointed out actions taken by Feinberg in the administration of the compensation fund that point to serious conflicts of interest:\n\nMr. Feinberg, employed by BP, has decided on his own authority that all claims recipients must release all companies who caused this disaster from any and all legal responsibility, no matter how grossly negligent they were. This sweeping release, which assigns victims' claims to BP, benefits only one actor: BP – the company that happens to pay Mr. Feinberg's salary.\n\nIn January 2011, Judge Barbier, the federal judge over the oil spill litigation, after hearing evidence and arguments of the attorneys, ruled that Kenneth Feinberg was not independent of BP and could no longer claim to be so. Feinberg had been telling victims he was their lawyer and did not answer to BP.\n\nThe letter also criticized Feinberg's lack of transparency in the matter of compensation:\n\nDespite repeated calls for the release of documents establishing the formal relationship between BP and Feinberg Rozen, as well as its subcontractors who are reviewing and adjudicating claims, almost nothing has been publicly released. And now we learn, as reported by Reuters on November 22, 2010, that BP and Feinberg Rozen consider their arrangement 'verbal,' i.e., they have not committed to writing the firm's compensation arrangement so there can be no public examination of it. Is the public to believe that there is no paper evidence at all documenting a $10 million per year financial arrangement between BP and Feinberg Rozen? What about the contracts between BP, Feinberg Rozen and the subcontractors who are advising and adjudicating claims and also being paid directly by BP? Surely these contracts must be in writing and released. This failure to release the terms of all these financial arrangements under circumstances of tremendous historic and public significance is simply unacceptable.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, Feinberg was hired by Penn State University to aid in the settlement of dozens of personal injury claims against the institution stemming from the sex abuse scandal involving Jerry Sandusky. Four months later, Feinberg said that he expected settlement discussions with 28 people to yield results within a matter of weeks.\n\nFeinberg oversaw the disbursement of donations to the injured victims and families of the deceased in the 2012 Aurora, Colorado, movie theater shooting that left 12 people dead and 70 others wounded.\n\nIn June 2013, Newtown-Sandy Hook Community Foundation was given permission from the Connecticut Attorney General to hand out $7.7 million of the fund. A committee of three, headed by a retired U.S. District Court, was being advised by Kenneth Feinberg.\n\nOn April 1, 2014, General Motors announced it had retained Feinberg to handle part of its response to a widely reported product safety recall. GM said Feinberg would serve as a consultant \"to explore and evaluate options in its response to families of accident victims whose vehicles are being recalled for possible ignition switch defects.\"\n\nThe U.S. Department of the Treasury released proposed and temporary regulations to implement the Kline-Miller Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014, as required by Congress. In Kline-Miller, Congress established a new process for multiemployer pension plans to propose a temporary or permanent reduction of pension benefits if the plan is projected to run out of money. As part of Treasury's commitment to ensuring an open and fair process, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew appointed Kenneth Feinberg as a Special Master to help provide a dedicated, impartial and informed review of applications proposing to reduce pension benefits. Feinberg will oversee Treasury's implementation of Kline-Miller, including the review of applications to determine whether they meet the requirements set by Congress. He will also ensure that affected stakeholders have a single point of contact dedicated to this process.\n\nIn February 2016, it was announced that Feinberg would be heading up the compensation fund for Volkswagen. This fund will be established to compensate the roughly 600,000 U.S. owners of diesel vehicles whose emissions are over the legal limit.\n\nIn March 2016, the United States Department of Justice appointed Feinberg to oversee the Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism Fund.\n\nAs a mediator, Kenneth Feinberg served as a mediator to help resolve price-fixing antitrust claims brought against a group of financial institutions. Working as the agreed-upon neutral, he helped secure comprehensive settlements in the billions of dollars, and thereafter helped to design and administer a compensation program to distribute settlement proceeds to eligible claimants.\n\nIn 2016, the Archdiocese of New York established the Independent Reconciliation and Compensation Program run by Kenneth Feinberg. This Independent Reconciliation and Compensation Program (the \"IRCP\") follows in the wake of initiatives already implemented by the Archdiocese of New York (the \"Archdiocese\") to address the problem of sexual abuse of minors alleged against clergy of the Archdiocese The IRCP is a new program designed to compensate eligible victims of abuse. During past years, the Archdiocese has received various individual complaints alleging sexual abuse by clergy of the Archdiocese. This Protocol outlines the eligibility criteria requirements and the process for these individuals to submit and resolve claims alleging such sexual abuse. This Protocol governs only those individual claims previously submitted to the Archdiocese and will be considered Phase I of a two-phase Program.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46602141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46602141", "title": "Levitation (festival)", "text": "Levitation (festival)\n\nLevitation (formerly Austin Psych Fest) is an annual 3-day music festival developed and produced by The Reverberation Appreciation Society. Since its sixth year in 2013 it has been held at Carson Creek Ranch in Austin, Texas. Inspired by the creative explosion of the 1960s, as well as by festivals such as ATP and Primavera Sound, they set out to create their vision of a music festival.\n\nOver the years, this independent festival has grown to an internationally acclaimed, full weekend event that attracts attendees from all over the world. In 2015 Austin Psych Fest was renamed LEVITATION in honor of Austin's legendary psychedelic rock godfathers The 13th Floor Elevators.\n\nThe Reverberation Appreciation Society is a creative collective composed of Rob Fitzpatrick, Oswald James, and Christian Bland and Alex Maas of The Black Angels. In addition to the festival in Austin, the group has branched out into other cities beginning in 2013 with Levitation France and in 2015 with Levitation Vancouver and Levitation Chicago. The group also runs The Reverberation Appreciation Society record label and has curated events at Austin's SXSW, The Netherlands' Le Guess Who?, NYC's CMJ and NRMAL in Mexico City.\n\nThe first annual Austin Psych Fest was held on Saturday March 8, 2008 at The Red Barn in north Austin, featuring performances by The Black Angels and Ringo Deathstarr among others.\n\nIn 2009, the festival was extended to three days and was held from March 13–15 at the Radio Room, a short lived venue on Sixth Street. The Seeds' Sky Saxon performed with Shapes Have Fangs as his backing band and Austin psychedelic legends The Golden Dawn performed their 1968 album \"Power Plant\" in its entirety. The lineup included modern psychedelic heavies Dead Meadow, A Place to Bury Strangers, Wooden Shjips, The Warlocks, and The Black Angels.\n\nThe third Austin Psych Fest was held April 23–25, 2010 at The Mohawk, a multi-stage venue on Red River. 41 acts performed, among them, The Raveonettes, Warpaint, The Gaslamp Killer, The Black Angels and 1960s legends Silver Apples.\n\nThe 2011 festival was held on April 29-May 1 at the 1950s art deco Seaholm Power Plant, a decommissioned steam power plant on the bands of Lady Bird Lake in downtown Austin that had been made temporarily available for events. Due to changes in city ordinances and construction plans, the festival changed venues 3 times before landing back at its originally intended location, The Seaholm Power Plant, and the festival would be the last concert held within the plant's walls. The 63 band bill was topped by Roky Erickson of The 13th Floor Elevators, Spacemen 3 offshoot Spectrum, Omar A Rodriguez group playing as The Mars Volta lineup, Crystal Stilts, the first performance from Black Moth Super Rainbow in several years, and The Black Angels.\n\nAustin Psych Fest 2012 was held April 27–29 at the east-side location of legendary music venue Emo's in conjunction with the Beauty Ballroom. The 5th annual festival featured a 61 band lineup including The Brian Jonestown Massacre, The Black Angels, and the Black Lips along with Meat Puppets, The Olivia Tremor Control, Thee Oh Sees, and Bombino, among others.\n\nThe 2013 and 2014 festivals were held at Carson Creek Ranch in Austin, Texas, located on the Colorado River. The 2013 festival, the 6th annual festival, held April 26–28, was the first year for the festival to be held at a completely outdoor venue, as well as the first year to have 3 stages of music, camping, and a poster series featuring US and international artists. The seventh annual festival, held May 2–4, 2014, included 1960s legends The Zombies, as well as Panda Bear, The Horrors, Loop, The Brian Jonestown Massacre, of Montreal, The Dandy Warhols, The Black Angels and many more.\n\nIn late 2014 The Reverberation Appreciation Society changed the festival's name from Austin Psych Fest to Levitation, titled after a track by Austin psychedelic legends The 13th Floor Elevators.\n\nThe 2015 festival was held May 8–10 at Carson Creek Ranch. The lineup included The Flaming Lips, The Jesus and Mary Chain, Primal Scream, Spiritualized, Tame Impala as well as a reunion performance by The 13th Floor Elevators, the band's first performance in 45 years.\n\nThe dates for the 2016 festival were April 29 - May 1, 2016, and the lineup featured Brian Wilson performing Pet Sounds, Ween, Animal Collective, Caribou, Flying Lotus, Slowdive, Courtney Barnett, Sleep, The Arcs, Brian Jonestown Massacre and many more.\n\nThe 2016 festival at Carson Creek Ranch was cancelled due to severe weather, resulting in significant damage to the festival grounds and infrastructure. In response over 20 concerts were organized in downtown Austin hosting the lineup and attendees.\n\nIn November 2016, festival organizers announced that the festival would not be held in 2017, but would return in 2018.\n\nCreated in 2013, Levitation France is held annually at Le Chabada in Angers, France. The first Levitation France was held on September 20–21, 2013, hosting a 17-band lineup including The Black Angels, Dead Meadow, Night Beats, Wall of Death, and The UFO Club. The second Levitation France festival was held September 19–20, 2014 and included Loop, Moon Duo, Woods, Allah-Las, La Femme, and Al Lover. Levitation France 2015 is scheduled to take place September 19–20, 2015.\n\nThe Reverberation Appreciation Society has released a number of concert films. \"Austin Psych Fest: Beyond the Third Sound\" features footage from Austin Psych Fest 2013 and includes performances and interviews with The Black Angels, Roky Erickson, Clinic, White Fence, Acid Mothers Temple, and Tinariwen, among others. Other concert films released include APF 2012, APF 2011 \"Live at the Power Plant,\" and APF 3, which features footage from Austin Psych Fest 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35804370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35804370", "title": "Levofenfluramine", "text": "Levofenfluramine\n\nLevofenfluramine (INN), or (−)-3-trifluoromethyl-\"N\"-ethylamphetamine, also known as (−)-fenfluramine or (\"R\")-fenfluramine, is a drug of the amphetamine family that, itself (i.e., in enantiopure form), was never marketed. It is the levorotatory enantiomer of fenfluramine, the racemic form of the compound, whereas the dextrorotatory enantiomer is dexfenfluramine. Both fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine are anorectic agents that have been used clinically in the treatment of obesity (and hence, levofenfluramine has been as well since it is a component of fenfluramine). However, they have since been discontinued due to reports of causing cardiovascular conditions such as valvular heart disease and pulmonary hypertension, adverse effects that are likely to be caused by excessive stimulation of 5-HT receptors expressed on heart valves.\n\nDexfenfluramine is believed to be solely responsible for the appetite suppressant properties of fenfluramine, of which it has been demonstrated to mediate predominantly via activation of postsynaptic 5-HT and 5-HT receptors through a combination of indirect serotonin releasing agent and direct serotonin receptor agonist activities (the latter of which are mediated fully by its active metabolite dexnorfenfluramine). Contrarily, levofenfluramine is thought to contribute only to unwanted side effects. Paradoxically, however, it has been shown that levofenfluramine too acts as a relatively potent releaser of serotonin, though with approximately 1/3rd of the efficacy of dexfenfluramine, As such, it would be expected to possess some degree of appetite suppressant properties as well, yet it does not. A potential explanation as to why levofenfluramine is not similarly an effective anorectic is that it has also been found to behave as a dopamine receptor antagonist, which, as dopamine antagonists like atypical antipsychotics are associated with causing increased appetite and weight gain—effects that their actions on dopamine receptors have been implicated in playing a role in the development of, is an action that could in theory cancel out the hypothetical serotonergically-mediated appetite suppressant effects of the compound. However, this is speculation and has not been proven.\n\nLevonorfenfluramine, an active metabolite of levofenfluramine, is also a fairly potent serotonin releasing agent (with a potency of approximately 1/2 that of norfenfluramine and 1/6th that of dexfenfluramine) and, similarly to dexnorfenfluramine, is a 5-HT and 5-HT receptor agonist, as well as a somewhat less potent norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (about 1/2 that of its efficacy as a serotonin releaser). As such, likely contributes significantly to the biological activity—though not necessarily appetite suppressant effects—of not only levofenfluramine but of racemic fenfluramine as well. In contrast to levonorfenfluramine, levofenfluramine is virtually inactive as a reuptake inhibitor or releaser of norepinephrine, and neither compound has any effect on dopamine reuptake or release.\n\n"}
{"id": "58443791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58443791", "title": "List of Katy Perry live performances", "text": "List of Katy Perry live performances\n\nAmerican singer Katy Perry has released five studio albums as well as an acoustic album and two live albums since her debut in 2001. This has resulted in four concert tours (all of them worldwide), and a lot of TV and award shows performances. In 2001 she released her first studio album \"Katy Hudson\" under the stage name Katy Hudson; her first and only Christian music album. Since adopting the stage name Katy Perry, she has been promoting all of her albums, starting with her second album \"One of the Boys\" in 2008 and 2009, through performances at several festivals including the Jingle Ball and the MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nIn 2009 she embarked on her debut headlining concert tour, Hello Katy Tour, which visited North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania and grossed over $1.5 million from 89 shows. In November 2009, Perry released her first extended play/live album: \"MTV Unplugged\" in collaboration with MTV. She embarked on her second world tour California Dreams Tour in 2011 to promote her third studio album \"Teenage Dream\". The tour visited Europe, Oceania, Asia, North America and South America. The tour became an international success, with tickets selling out and ranking 16th in Pollstar's \"2011 Top 25 Worldwide Tours\", earning over $59.5 million. At the end of 2011, \"Billboard\" ranked it #13 on its annual \"Top 25 Tours\", earning nearly $48.9 million and won the Favorite Headliner Tour Award at the 38th People's Choice Awards. In July 2012 she released her first documentary theatre movie \"\" which included footage from the California Dreams Tour.\n\nPerry's next tour was named the Prismatic World Tour which began in May 2014 and ended in October 2015 visiting Europe, North America, Oceania, Asia and South America. The tour supported her fourth studio album \"Prism\" which was released in October 2013. The tour grossed more than $204.3 million from 151 shows with a total attendance of 1,984,503 between 2014 and 2015 becoming Perry's longest, most attended, highest grossing and most successful tour to date. The Sydney November 28th concert was recorded for her second live album: The Prismatic World Tour Live which was released in October 2015, two weeks after the tour anded in Costa Rica.\n\nIn July 2016, the singer released \"Rise\" the official song for the 2016 Summer Olympic Games. A year later she released her fifth studio album \"Witness\" (2017), which's homonymous track got leaked in May 2016. The album was released in June 2017. To accompany the album's release, the singer broadcast herself for four days on YouTube with a four-day live-stream titled . Three months later, began in Montreal after some dates were either cancelled or reshudeled \"due to production issues\". At the end of 2017, the tour placed at number 77 on \"Pollstar\"'s \"2017 Year-End Top 100 Worldwide Tours\" list, estimating that it grossed $28.1 million and that 266,300 people attended throughout the year. In July 2018, \"Pollstar\" ranked the tour on #14 at the Mid Year Top 100 Worldwide Tours 2018 with $48.8 million and 577,617 of tickets sold in 54 shows. The tour grossed more than $76.9 million and it became Perry's second most successful tour to date.\n"}
{"id": "58450346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58450346", "title": "List of live performances by Justin Bieber", "text": "List of live performances by Justin Bieber\n\nCanadian singer Justin Bieber has released three studio albums, an extended play, two acoustic albums, a remix album, two compilation albums as well as two documentary movies since his debut in 2009. This has resulted in three concert tours (all of them worldwide), and a lot of TV and award shows performances. He first released an extended play named \"My World\" in November 2009. The EP got promoted through 2009, through performances at several award ceremonies and television shows, including the Summer Rush and the Jingle Ball as well through his first promotional tour Urban Behavior Tour. In 2009 Bieber served as the opening act on selected dates of Taylor Swift's Fearless Tour. In March 2010 he released his first studio album My World 2.0 which included his smash hit \"\"Baby\"\". A tour in support of the album began in June 2010 and ended in October 2011 after 127 stops. It was named My World Tour. In February 2011 he released his first documentary theatre movie \"\". The soundtrack to the album was released the same day as the movie. Nine months later he released Under the Mistletoe, his first Christmas album.\n\nIn June 2012 he released his second studio album \"Believe\". The album got promoted through several performances including the iHeartRadio MuchMusic Video Awards and the Summertime Ball. The tour in support of the album began in the United States in September 2012 and ended in December 2013 in Australia after 155 concerts. In January 2013 the acoustic version of the album was released. In December 2013 he released his second compilation album \"Journals\". No tour in support of Journals was booked. No promotion was either done.\n\nAfter three and a half years since the release of Bieber's second studio album, he released his third, \"Purpose\" in November 2015. The album got promoted through several award show performances including the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards and the American Music Awards. The Purpose World Tour began in Seattle in March 2016. Bieber began to perform in stadiums since the Latin American leg in February 2017. The tour was set to end in Singapore in October 2017 but ended in July instead due to mental and physical exhaustion. According to \"Pollstar\", Purpose World Tour grossed $163.3 million and sold 1,761,642 tickets in 2016 and the 29 shows in 2017 grossed $93.7 million with 1,043,839 tickets sold. Overall, the tour had a total gross of $257 million and 2,805,481 in attendance in 141 shows. In November 2017 it was reported that a 17 year old British boy planned a terror attack on Justin Bieber concert in Cardiff, in name of Islamic State weeks after the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing after an Ariana Grande concert. Luckily nothing fatal happened.\n"}
{"id": "13484708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13484708", "title": "List of years in philosophy", "text": "List of years in philosophy\n\nThe following entries cover events related to the study of philosophy which occurred in the listed year or century.\n\n\n1623 1658 \n1700 1748 1751 1776 1781 1798\n\n1800\n1801 1809 1828 1838 1844 1845 1847 1848 1854 1855 1859 1860 1889 1890 1899\n\n1900 1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909<BR>\n1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919<BR>\n1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929<BR>\n1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939<BR>\n1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949<BR>\n1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959<BR>\n1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969<BR>\n1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979<BR>\n1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989<BR>\n1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999<BR>\n2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005\n2006 2007 2008 2009<BR>\n2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019\n\n\nPlease see the page for formatting standards.\n"}
{"id": "28580625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28580625", "title": "Machangulo affair", "text": "Machangulo affair\n\nThe Machangulo Affair was a social and (eventually) political controversy that took place in the Netherlands in 2009. It involved a decision in 2007 by Dutch crown prince Willem-Alexander and his wife princess Máxima to invest in a land development project in Machangulo (in Mozambique). It ended on November 20, 2009 with the decision to sell the property.\n\nOn 10 July 2008, the Prince and Princess announced that they had – in the second half of 2007 – invested in a development project on the Mozambican peninsula of Machangulo. The development project in question was aimed at building an ecologically responsible vacation resort, including a hotel and several luxury vacation houses for investors. In addition the project was to invest heavily in the local economy of the peninsula (building schools, wells and housing for the local populace) with an eye both towards \"responsible sustainability\" and maintaining a local staff.\n\nThe royal couple stated that they had been attracted to the project since it seemed to be a perfect match for their desires and interests: on the one hand a vacation resort far away, where they might take holidays without too many prying eyes; and on the other ecologically and sustainably responsible, investing in the local economy and ecology (which the Prince and Princess both have a personal interest in). Plus located in Africa, a continent that has been dear to several generations of the royal family. So, after contacting Mozambican president Armando Guebuza to verify that the Mozambican government had no objections, the couple decided to invest.\n\nThe announcement of the investment was initially not considered anything special in the Netherlands and was generally considered to be \"information\". However, in the course of 2009 there was quite a bit of controversy surrounding the project and the Prince's position in relation to it. There were reports in the press of corruption involving a contractor in the project, who turned out to have embezzled money from a number of investors (not the Prince, however). A local police chief was arrested for having murdered a local who was protesting the project. And shortly after that a report was published stating that there had been serious delays in building facilities for the local population (those facilities have been completed since). Also, there were questions about some of the investors (particularly members of the Flick family) and whether it was such a wonderful idea for the Prince to be neighbors with them. \n\nTowards November 2009 the rumors and speculation intensified, although there were also opinions issued in favor of the purchase. On top of corruption charges and project delays, there were rumors about the local population losing fishing grounds due to the closing of a 20 kilometer stretch of beach for private use of the resort and a protest by the local population being put down by the army, using gunfire (both rumors were later denied, the latter one by Dutch prime minister Jan Peter Balkenende). \n\nIn the course of 2009 there were several scandals and semi-scandals involving the royal couple (including a lawsuit against the Associated Press), as well as other members of the royal house. Several of these involved family finances (general expenses of the royal house, tax shelters being run from the Palace, travel expenses, use of a naval shipyard for the work on the Queen's personal yacht). These rumors came at a time in which the Netherlands was starting to feel the effects of the late-2000s recession and negatively impacted the royal families popularity. This general downturn in popular support for the royals may have fed the political criticism that followed.\n\nIn November 2009 politicians such as Alexander Pechtold had started simply questioning the morality of building a luxury resort in a poor country such as Mozambique. And there were questions about the Prince's behavior on rumors that he had \"wined until he had gotten his way\" and that he had \"pushed ahead on the project without consulting the prime minister\". These rumors were always attributed to an \"anonymous source near the government\", so their reliability is unclear; however, the unquestioning way they were accepted by a relatively large section of the public says something about the mood in the Netherlands towards the end of 2009. \n\nFinally, in November, there were a number of parliamentary debates on the issue and prime minister Balkenende was even called to answer questions. In these questions he explained that the project was a private affair of the Prince, but that extra distance had been created between the Prince and the business of the project to avoid entanglements. The extra distance came in the form of a foundation that managed the Prince's investment. The press called the independence of that foundation into question however, because it was run by a personal friend of the Prince's.\n\nFinally, on November 20, the prime minister returned to parliament to announce that the Prince and Princess had decided, due to the public and parliamentary controversy, to sell the property in Machangulo once their house was completed. To this end he read a letter in parliament written by the Prince personally (an unusual event, since ministerial responsibility dictates that royals are usually not quoted directly in parliament).\n\nIn January 2012, it was confirmed that the villa had been sold back to Machangulo SA. Prime Minister Mark Rutte stated that the Crown Prince and Princess have no further involvement with the project.\n"}
{"id": "43066451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43066451", "title": "Midburn", "text": "Midburn\n\nMidburn (Hebrew: מידברן; Arabic: ميدبيرن) is a 6-day event held in the Negev Desert in southern Israel. The first annual event was held in June, 2014, and was attended by 3,000 people. The second event was held in May 20-24, 2015, and was attended by 6,500 people. The name itself is a portmanteau of the Hebrew word for \"desert\" (מידבר \"midbar\") and the English word \"burn\" in reference to the annual Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert. \n\nThe festival is held near Sde Boker, and the themes of the event are creativity, art and personal expression. \n\nThe burn is held every year in May or June, around the Hebrew holiday of \"Shavuot\" (Pentecost), and culminates in a bonfire of wooden sculptures. The third Midburn event, in 2016, had an attendance of 8,000 participants, making it the 2nd biggest regional event outside the US, after AfrikaBurn. As of 2018, it is the only Burning Man regional event in the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "805130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=805130", "title": "Miss Match", "text": "Miss Match\n\nMiss Match is an American comedy-drama television series created by Jeff Rake and Darren Star and produced by 20th Century Fox Television, Darren Star Productions, and Imagine Television. It aired in the United States on NBC, Australia on Seven Network, Arena, and Fox8, and in the United Kingdom on Living, Channel 4, and is on E4. Seventeen episodes of the series were filmed, with eleven aired in the United States. The entire series aired in both the UK and Canada.\n\nStarring Alicia Silverstone and Ryan O'Neal, the show garnered poor ratings, which could have been due to its inability to compete in the Friday 8 pm ET timeslot (the \"Friday night death slot\"). It was based on the real-life story of Samantha Daniels.\n\nA Los Angeles matrimonial attorney, Kate Fox (Alicia Silverstone), doubles as a high-end matchmaker even though her own love life is far from perfect.\n\n\n\nNBC had a cross promotion where Deanna Wright, Galen Gering and McKenzie Westmore, who starred on NBC's soap opera \"Passions\", appeared in an episode of the series.\n\nThe series was executive produced by Darren Star, who also directed the pilot, and Jeff Rake, who wrote the pilot, as well as David Nevins and Brian Grazer. After Alicia Silverstone, the first actors cast in \"Miss Match\" were David Conrad, Lake Bell and James Roday in February 2003. This was followed by the casting of Ryan O'Neill, as the divorce attorney father of Silverstone's character, and Jodi Long, in early March 2003.\n\nNBC ordered \"Miss Match\" (then titled \"Miss/Match\") to series in May 2003. In December 2003 NBC added four episodes to the order for \"Miss Match\", bringing the total number of produced episodes to 17.\n\n"}
{"id": "2752995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2752995", "title": "Modell Performing Arts Center", "text": "Modell Performing Arts Center\n\nThe Modell Performing Arts Center (originally The Music Hall and formerly the Lyric Opera House) is a music venue in Baltimore, Maryland, United States, located close to the University of Baltimore. The building was modeled after the Concertgebouw concert hall in Amsterdam, and it was inaugurated on 31 October 1894 with a performance by the Boston Symphony Orchestra and Australian opera singer Nellie Melba as the featured soloist. Beginning 1904, it was also used for touring performances by the Metropolitan Opera, and from 1950, it was the home of the Baltimore Opera Company until the company's liquidation in 2009.\n\nThe Lyric has been the home of the Lyric Opera Baltimore company since 2011. It was founded after the demise of Baltimore Lyric Opera.\n\nPrior to the 1909 purchase of the building on behalf of the Metropolitan Opera by Otto Kahn, Oscar Hammerstein I presented an opera season and began to make plans to remodel it by enlarging the stage area. However Kahn's purchase caused the venue's name to be changed to the Lyric Theatre. and firmed up the continuity of the Metropolitan Opera's annual visits. In the early 20th century, the Lyric Opera featured opera tenor Enrico Caruso who appeared there with the Metropolitan Opera in a performance of Flotow's \"Martha\".\n\nIn 1950, building on earlier amateur efforts, the Baltimore Opera was formally established as the Baltimore Civic Opera Company, with the famous American soprano Rosa Ponselle as its first artistic director. She brought Beverly Sills to Baltimore for a production of \"Manon\" in 1952. By 1970, the name was changed to Baltimore Opera Company and had become firmly established at the Lyric.\n\nHaving been modeled on the Concertgebouw, the Lyric was primarily used as a concert hall. 1916 saw the founding of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra which presented performances there until 1982, while the building was purchased from Kahn in 1920 and a significant renovation created an enlarged balcony with seating capacity reaching 2,800. In March 1974, the Lyric's 75th anniversary featured the return of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and throughout these years, the Philadelphia Orchestra made regular appearances in Baltimore until April 1980. A highlight was the 1934 premiere of Rachmaninoff's \"Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini\", with the composer at the piano.\n\nMany different kinds of events were presented at the Lyric, including sporting events such as the 1905 lightweight boxing fight between Joe Gans, the lightweight champion, and Mike Sullivan and the 1906 wrestling bout between Gus Schoenlein and the world champion, George Hackenschmidt, the world champion of the time. The first public showing of electric cooking in Baltimore took place, as well as hosting speakers like Aimee Semple McPherson, Will Rogers, Richard Byrd, Clarence Darrow, Amelia Earhart, Charles Lindbergh and William Jennings Bryan.\n\nPerformers appearing at the Lyric included in April/May 1984 Yul Brynner who starred in \"The King and I\" which over 70,000 people attended in four weeks. That same year, Patti Labelle's performances sold out five performances while, in 1987, \"Cats\" played to over 75,000 people.\n\nMajor renovations from 1980-1982 completed its transformation into an opera house. \n"}
{"id": "1510409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1510409", "title": "Moscopole", "text": "Moscopole\n\nMoscopole (; ; ; ) is a village in Korçë County in southeastern Albania. During the 18th century, it was the cultural and commercial center of the Aromanians. At its peak, in the mid 18th century, it hosted the first printing press in the Ottoman Balkans outside Istanbul, educational institutions and numerous churches and became a leading center of Greek culture.\n\nHistorians have attributed the decline of the city to a series of raids by Muslim Albanian bandits. Moscopole was initially attacked and almost destroyed by those groups in 1769 following the participation of the residents in the preparations for a Greek revolt supported by the Russian Empire. Its destruction culminated with the abandoning and destruction of 1788. Moscopole, once a prosperous city, was reduced to a small village by Ali Pasha. According to another opinion, the city's decline was mainly due to the relocation of the trade routes in central and eastern Europe following these raids. Today Moscopole, known as Voskopojë, is a small mountain village, and along with a few other local settlements is considered a holy place by local Orthodox Christians. It was one of the original homelands of the Aromanian diaspora.\n\nModern Voskopojë is located 21 km from Korçë, in the mountains of southeastern Albania, at an altitude of 1160 meters, and is a subdivision of Korçë municipality; its population in 2011 was 1,058. The municipality of Voskopojë consists of the villages of Voskopojë, Shipskë, Krushovë, Gjonomadh and Lavdar. In 2005, the municipality had a population of 2,218, whereas the settlement itself has a population of around 500.\n\nAlthough located in a rather isolated place in the mountains of southern Albania, the city rose to become the most important center of the Aromanians. It was a small settlement until the end of the 17th century, but afterwards showed a remarkable financial and cultural development. Some writers have claimed that Moscopole in its glory days (1730–1760) had as many as 70,000 inhabitants; other estimates placed its population closer to 35,000; but a more realistic number may be closer to 3500: \"...The truth may be closer to this number [sc. 3500] than to 70,000. Moschopolis was certainly not among the largest Balkan cities of the 18th century\".\n\nAccording to the Swedish historian Johann Thunmann, who visited Moscopole and wrote a history of the Aromanians in 1774, everyone in the city spoke Aromanian; many also spoke Greek, which was used for writing contracts, in fact the city is said to have been mainly populated by Vlachs/Aromanians. The fact was confirmed by a 1935 analysis of the family names shows that the majority of the population were indeed Vlachs, but there were also Greeks and Albanians present in the city.\n\nHistorically the main economic activity of the city was the livestock farming. The alternative name \"Voskopolis\" means \"City of shepherds\". This activity led to the establishment of wool processing and carpet manufacturing units and the development of tanneries, while other locals became metal workers, silver and copper smiths. During the middle of the 18th century, the city became an important economic center whose influence spread over the boundaries of the Archbishopric of Ohrid, and reached further the Ottoman ruled Eastern-Orthodox world: the trade involved as far as the Archduchy of Austria, the Kingdom of Hungary, and the Upper Saxony. Until 1769, the town traded on a large scale with renowned European commercial centres of that time, such as Venice, Vienna and Leipzig.\n\nA printing press was also operating in Moscopole which was the second one in Ottoman Europe (in ,) after that of Constantinople. This establishment produced a total of nineteen books, mainly Services to the Saints but also the \"Introduction of Grammar\" by the local scholar Theodore Kavalliotis. The later became director of the city's prestigious educational institution, which from 1744 was known as New Academy or \"Hellenikon Frontistirion\", sponsored by the wealthy merchants of the diaspora. Moreover, the city hosted an orphanage, known as \"Orphanodioiketerion\", probably the first in the post-Byzantine Orthodox world, a hospital and a total of 24 churches.\n\nA cultural effervescence arose in Moscopole, and many authors published their works in both the Greek language (which was the language of culture of the Balkans at the time) and Aromanian, written in the Greek alphabet. In 1770, the first dictionary of four modern Balkan languages (Greek, Albanian, Vlach/Aromanian and Bulgarian) was published here. Daniel Moscopolites a Vlach-speaking native priest of Moscopole, compiled a quadrilingual lexicon of Greek, Vlach, Bulgarian and Albanian, that aimed at the hellenization of the non-Greek-speaking Christian communities in the Balkans. Due to the high level of intellectual activity and Greek education Moscopole was nicknamed as \"New Athens\" or \"New Mystra\". As such the city became an important 18th century center of the modern Greek Enlightenment.\n\nThe 1769 sacking and pillaging by Muslim Albanian troops was just the first of a series of attacks. Moscopole was attacked due to the participation of the residents in the preparations for a Greek revolt supported by the Russian Empire (known as Orlov revolt). Its destruction culminated with the razing of 1788 by the troops of Ali Pasha. Moscopole was practically destroyed by this attack, while some of its commerce shifted to nearby Korçë and Berat.\nThe survivors were thus forced to flee, most of them emigrating mainly to Thessaly and Macedonia. Some of the commercial elite moved to the Archduchy of Austria, and the Kingdom of Hungary especially to the respective capitals of Vienna and Budapest, but also to Transylvania, where they had an important role in the early National awakening of Romania. The city never rose back to its earlier status. However, a new school was established at the end of the 18th century whose headmaster in 1802 was Daniel Moscopolites. This school functioned the following decades, thanks to donations and bequests by baron Simon Sinas, a member of the diaspora.\n\nIn 1900, a report by the Greek consul Betsos gave details of the demographic composition of Moscopole. It noted that the 18th century destruction of the settlement resulted in the dispersal of its Aromanian speaking population and the some old remaining families moved to other places, in particular Korçë. Around 30 old families remained, however the socio-political crisis that engulfed the nearby Opar region resulted in Albanian speaking Christians leaving their previous homes and resettling in Moscopole. Aromanians from two nearby settlements also resettled in Moscopole. Moscopole in 1900 was populated by a total of 200 families, consisting of 120 Albanian speaking and 80 Aromanian speaking families. Most of the older Aromanian speaking families had a Greek national consciousness while 3 families along with some the newer residents were pro-Romanian (a total of 20 families), led by an unfrocked priest named Kosmas. \n\nIn 1914 Moscopole was part of the Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus. It was destroyed again in 1916 during World War I by the marauding Albanian bands of Sali Butka.\n\nDuring the Greco-Italian War, on November 30, 1940, the town was controlled by the advancing Greek forces. In April 1941, after the capitulation of Greece, Moscopole returned to Axis control. The remaining buildings were razed three times during the partisan warfare of World War II: once by Italian troops and twice by the Albanian nationalist Balli Kombëtar organization. Of the old city, six Orthodox churches (one in a very ruined state), a bridge and a monastery survive. In 1996, the church of St. Michael was vandalized by three adolescent Albanians under the influence of a foreign Muslim fundamentalist. In 2002, the five standing churches were put on the World Monuments Fund's Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites\n\nToday, Moscopole is just a small mountain village and ski resort. Nonetheless, memories of glory days of Moscopole remain an important part of the culture of the Aromanians.\n\nDuring recent years, a Greek language institution, a joint Greek-Albanian initiative, has operated in Moscopole.\n\nMoscopole, known in Albania as being a traditionally Christian settlement is neighbours with various Muslim and Christian Albanian villages that surround it, although the latter have become \"demographically depressed\", due to migration. During the communist period some Muslim Albanians from surrounding villages settled in Moscopole making locals view the village population as mixed (\"i përzier\") and lamenting the decline of the Christian element.\n\nThe remaining churches in the region are among the most representative of 18th century ecclesiastical art in the Balkans. Characteristically, their murals are comparable to that in the large monastic centres at Mount Athos and Meteora in Greece. The architectural design is in general specific and identical: a large three-aisled basilica with a\ngable roof. The churches are single-apsed, with a wide altar apse and internal niches that serve as prothesis and diaconicon. Most churches also have one niche, each on the northern and southern walls, next to the prothesis and the diakonicon. Along the southern side there is an arched porch.\n\nOf the ca. 24-30 churches of Moscopole, besides the St. John the Baptist Monastery (, ) in the vicinity of the town, only five have survived into modern times: \n\nSome of the ruined churches include the following:\n\nThere is a combination of mild valley climate in the lower parts and true Alpine climate in the higher regions. Favorable climate conditions make this center ideal for winter, summer, sport, recreation tourism, so there are tourists during the whole year, not only from areas of Albania, but also foreigners.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50448977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50448977", "title": "Murder of Jamiel Shaw II", "text": "Murder of Jamiel Shaw II\n\nThe murder of Jamiel Shaw II occurred on March 2, 2008, in Arlington Heights, Los Angeles, California. Shaw, a 17-year-old Los Angeles High School football player, was shot by two Hispanic men while returning home from the Beverly Center. Shaw was taken to a hospital, where he later died.\n\nA gang member, Pedro Espinoza, was later apprehended and convicted of the murder. Because Espinoza was an illegal immigrant who had just been released from jail, the shooting sparked controversy and political debate over Los Angeles' status as a sanctuary city, and over Special Order 40.\n\nJamiel \"Jas\" Andre Shaw, II (December 22, 1990 – March 2, 2008) was a junior at Los Angeles High School. He played football, basketball, baseball, the piano, and ran track. On the morning of his murder, he had participated in a weekend football training program, that prepares top high school football players for college football and for a possible career in the National Football League. Shaw was also being prospected by several colleges, including Rutgers University and Stanford University. Shaw's mother Anita was serving her second tour in Iraq at the time of his death.\n\nPedro Espinoza (born 1989) was a member of the 18th Street Gang and was residing in the U.S. illegally. He had previously been arrested in November 2007 on gun charges and assault on a police officer. He was given a four-month early release from jail on March 1, 2008. A day after Shaw's murder, Espinoza reported to his probation officer.\n\nIn the early evening of March 2, 2008, Shaw was returning home from the Beverly Center. He was walking from the bus stop when his father, Jamiel Sr., called him on his phone. Shaw answered the phone and told him he was nearby. He was three blocks away from his home when he was killed.\n\nAt about 8:40 p.m., two Hispanic men jumped out of a white car, confronted Shaw, and asked him what gang he belonged to. When he did not answer quickly enough, they shot him. Shaw's father heard the gunshots, ran outside, and stayed by his son until medical personnel arrived. Shaw was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 9:55 p.m.\n\nShaw was first shot in the stomach, causing him to fall to the ground. While he was on the ground with his hands over his head, he was shot through his hands, with the bullet then traveling into his face.\n\nWithin an hour of Shaw's murder, Espinoza was found in a park by a Culver City police officer who was not aware of the shooting. Because the park was closed, he was told to leave. The officer wrote down the license plate number of his vehicle and later shared it with the Los Angeles Police Department. Espinoza was later arrested.\n\nEspinoza was formally charged with first-degree murder. He was convicted on May 9, 2012. The guilty verdict also included special circumstances, which made Espinoza eligible for the death penalty. On May 23, 2012, the jury sentenced Espinoza to death.\n\nIn 2009, the Shaw family filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Los Angeles County and Sheriff Lee Baca. The suit also alleged negligence, violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and deprivation of civil rights. In 2010, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Charles F. Palmer determined that the defendants were legally immune from the action, and dismissed the lawsuit.\n\nShaw's funeral was held on March 11, 2008, at the West Angeles Church of God in Christ.\n\nShaw's murder sparked criticism and political debate over Los Angeles' sanctuary city policy and Special Order 40, which aimed to strengthen community safety by disallowing local officials from questioning a resident's immigration status, thus enabling local victims of crime to file reports without fear of deportation.\n\nIn rapper Ice Cube's music video \"Why Me?\", the Jamiel Shaw case is prominently featured.\n\nIn response to the controversy, the Shaw family is supporting \"Jamiel's Law\", which would rescind Special Order 40. Mayoral candidate Walter Moore campaigned as a supporter of this initiative. An attempt to get this proposal onto the May 2009 election ballot failed, when supporters did not gather enough signatures.\n\nShaw's parents became supporters of Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Shaw Sr. was featured in a Trump television advertisement, and spoke at several Trump rallies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24281286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281286", "title": "No-show job", "text": "No-show job\n\nA no-show job is a paid position that ostensibly requires the holder to perform duties, but for which no work, or even attendance, is actually expected. The awarding of no-show jobs is a form of political or corporate corruption.\n\n\"The New York Times\" has written: \"The no-show job has long played a central role in the annals of crime and corruption in New York, offering an efficient way for crooked politicians, union officials, mobsters and all manner of miscreants to funnel kickbacks and bribes to friends, family members, business associates and even themselves.\" Philip Carlo, in his biography of Anthony \"Gaspipe\" Casso, writes that no-show jobs are \"a classic Mafia setup\" and that such positions were highly prized among mobsters. A 2012 report of the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor found that \"no-show jobs held by relatives of mobsters and other well-connected people continue to vex government officials trying to make the ports more efficient and more competitive.\"\n\nIn the past, no-show jobs were also an aspect of corruption in Boston and Chicago.\n\nIn the corporate world, \"no-show\" employees—also called ghost employees—usually have some family or personal relationship to a supervisor. In the corporate world, this is considered a type of payroll fraud. Fraud audits seek to detect such practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "1504192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504192", "title": "Nowhere (event)", "text": "Nowhere (event)\n\nNowhere is a Burning Man regional Event in Spain. It is the biggest regional gathering in Europe. It is held annually in July in the Monegros Desert, located in Aragon in north-eastern Spain.\n\nNowhere, like any Burning Man event, differs drastically from a common music festival. Participation is the key element of the event and every attendant is expected to be involved in some way. Everyone is regarded as a participant. Every task ranging from setup over maintaining the gate and perimeter up to first aid are volunteer based. There is no hired workforce aside from transport and logistics. Further, there are no scheduled performers or stages. Every participant is expected to contribute something to the event. Participants pay everything they contribute out of their own pocket as there is a strict rule of non commerce during the whole event.\n\nAs an official regional Event Nowhere embraces the Burning Man principles.\n\nNowhere's size, cultural background and geographical location produces quite a different event from Burning Man. Given it is Europes biggest burn event it attracts a very international crowd including people from overseas.\n\nUnlike Burning Man, Nowhere doesn't include fire as a key feature of the event. Due to the dry area, which is on wildfire alert during the summer, it is strictly forbidden to have any kind open fire, therefore no Art is set on fire. Fire spinning is restricted to a controlled area with fire marshals on duty. The burning of an effigy happened only once in 2016 after coming to an agreement with the local authorities. Nowhere uses a Lighthouse as their effigy and a Compass as its logo.\n\nLike Burning Man Nowhere is created solely by the participants and driven by theme camps which are called \"Barrios\". During the last incarnations Nowhere used a layout that reassembled a compass. This leads to an arrangement of the Barrios in a circle like shape, in opposition to Burning Mans half round layout. Nowhere further divides the camps in three distinct sound zones reading from the \"green zone\" which has a no sound policy to the \"red zone\" which hosts the dance camps. The same goes for the free camping areas. There is no open space or \"deep playa\" at Nowhere.\n\nArt is the core of any burn event and Nowhere do not differ from this. Despite this large scale artworks in the dimension of Burning Man are rare at Nowhere. This is in part due to the strict non burning policy. The logistics of transport, setup, takedown and removal are more challenging to the participants because of this. Nowhere gives art grants for artists up to €3000. Artworks that are meant to be build on the playa require a prior registration.\n\nThe event has a central shade structure known as \"Middle of Nowhere (MoN)\". As the name suggests she is placed prominently in the middle of the playa. It is a public space for relaxing, dancing, workshops and socializing. In difference to Burning Man there is no coffee sold there and commerce is limited to ice only. Other public infrastructure includes: \"NoInfo\" which serves as the general point of information, \"La Cantina\" which offers volunteers a free meal and \"Werkhaus\", which sets up and keeps the public infrastructure intact.\n\nUntil 2017 Nowhere provided a special setup to avoid or limit the use of chemical toilets called \"Long Drops\". These were deep drilled holes which were covered by an open air toilet seat. Participants covered their feces down in the hole with some loose soil after using the Long Drops. These units were serviced by volunteers known as \"Shit Ninjas\". As the event has grown the use of the Long Drops was declined. Nowhere has since experimented with other alternative ways of human waste management. The Shit Ninjas have taken over the servicing of the chemical toilets and provide a very clean toilet setup compared to most other events.\n\nThe landscape in the region of Monegros near Zaragoza is very dry and has a desert-like feel. Some canyons around Nowhere resemble the desert in Nevada. There is a lot of agriculture close to the Nowhere location, but it depends heavily on a well-developed irrigation system with water from the Pyrenees.\n\nThe roots of Nowhere track back 2002, when UK burners started to organize a decompression party in London. Nowhere began in 2004, in Bardenas Reales, and has roughly doubled in size each year, to the current size of around 4000 participants in 2018. Nowhere has been held in several different locations in the Navarra and Aragon regions of Spain. The current location is near Sariñena in the Province of Huesca.\n\nIn 2004, at the first Nowhere event, there was a public board to suggest names for the event. Out of it came the formalization of the name Nowhere. According to Bongo Pedro, the first mention of the name Nowhere occurred in a thread discussing names for the event. Armand wrote that he couldn't wait to meet us all in the \"middle of nowhere\". Three people liked the idea of Nowhere as a name and none of the other ideas got more than one vote each.\n\nIt was suggested the name came from a sign showing \"Welcome to Nowhere\" outside the only store and gas station in Empire, Nevada, the second-to-last town on the way to Burning Man; it consists only of a few houses and is literally in the middle of Nowhere, the Nevada desert.\n\nNowhere is built on the following key principles, they are inspired by Burning Man, however they have been adapted and re-edited in an inverted order:\n\n\nA Barrio is a group of people who camp together, have a common infrastructure (kitchen, shade structure etc.) and typically provide a certain service or attraction for the other participants. Barrios have to register with the event and get a placement regarding their size and sound zone preferences.\n\nBarrios are a vital part of Nowhere and in 2018 the event hosted about 50 Barrios ranging from large sound camps to meditation camps. There are special Barrios like Werkhaus, which houses core event volunteers. They range widely in size from less than ten to over a hundred members. Due to the international nature of the event, Barrios can take on a national character, with a majority of members from a certain country. Other Barrios are very international in their demography. Some Barrios have a history of 10 or more years of contributing to the event.\n\nEach year, Norg - Nowhere board of organizers - awards the Prize of \"Best Barrio of the Playa\", based on various criteria as general look, respect of the principles, animations, communication with the other Barrios and installations provided. In 2017 and 2018, Ran'Dome, a Belgian-French camp with food, drinks and loud sound as main themes (as well as a certain fetishism around randomness and dices), received the prize, after a heavily disputed contest with their all-time challengers, Übertown.\n\nAside from the Barrios there are many zones for independent campers that are not affiliated with a Barrio called free camps. Most participants of Nowhere stay in there. They are often referenced as \"Freecampers\". Some Freecampers build shade structures and artworks all on their own in these zones. Others organize public spaces within the free camping areas. One of the most famous is \"Middle of Frickin Freecamp\" (MOFF). MOFF offers the possibility to hold gatherings and workshops and has become a stable at Nowhere during the last years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6851363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6851363", "title": "OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises", "text": "OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises\n\nThe OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises are an annex to the OECD Declaration on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises. They are recommendations providing principles and standards for responsible business conduct for multinational corporations operating in or from countries adhering to the Declaration. The Guidelines are legally nonbinding, but the OECD Investment Committee and its Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct encourage implementation among adherents. Originally, the Declaration and the Guidelines were adopted by the OECD in 1976. The Guidelines were subsequently revised in 1979, 1982, 1984, 1991, 2000 and 2011.\n\nThe Guidelines cover business ethics on a range of issues, including:\nIn addition, the OECD has developed specific guidance in a number of sectors to help enterprises implement the Guidelines and proactively identify risks of adverse impacts. These sectors include extractives, mineral supply chains, agricultural supply chains, garment supply chains, and the financial sector. The work of the National Contact Points in support of this is called the \"proactive agenda.\"\n\nAccording to the OECD Council decision each adhering country has to set up a National Contact Point (NCP), an entity responsible for the promotion of the Guidelines on a national level. It handles all enquiries and matters related to the Guidelines in that specific country, including investigating complaints (referred to as \"specific instances\") about a company operating in, or headquartered in that country. Some are based in a relevant government department; some are independent structures comprising government officials, trade unions, employers unions and sometimes non-governmental organisations. In order to improve their functioning and coherence across adherent countries, the NCPs established a peer review schedule in 2016 that plans 4-6 reviews annually.\n\nThe OECD Investment Committee is the primary body responsible for overseeing the functioning of the Guidelines and implementation of all OECD investment instruments. The Committee consists of member states' senior officials from treasuries, economics, trade and industry, and foreign affairs ministries and central banks. All OECD member states are members of the Investment Committee. Argentina and Brazil are observers and the 13 non-Members that have subscribed to the Declaration participate in the work of the Committee on issues related to the Guidelines. A Working Party on Responsible Business Conduct was established in 2013 as a subsidiary body of the Investment Committee to help implement the Guidelines and strengthen the system of National Contact Points. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8812611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8812611", "title": "Operation Enduring Freedom – Horn of Africa", "text": "Operation Enduring Freedom – Horn of Africa\n\nOperation Enduring Freedom – Horn of Africa (OEF-HOA) is the United States military operation to combat militant Islamism and piracy in the Horn of Africa. It is one component of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), which includes eight African states stretching from the far northeast of the continent to the oil-rich Gulf of Guinea in the west. The other OEF mission in Africa is known as Operation Enduring Freedom – Trans Sahara (OEF-TS), which, until the creation of the new United States Africa Command, was run from the United States European Command.\n\nThe Combined Joint Task Force – Horn of Africa (CJTF-HOA) is the primary (but not sole) military component assigned to accomplish the objectives of the mission. The naval component is the multinational Combined Task Force 150 (CTF-150) which operates under the direction of the United States Fifth Fleet. Both of these organizations have been historically part of United States Central Command. In February 2007, United States President George W. Bush announced the establishment of the United States Africa Command which took over all of the area of operations of CJTF-HOA in October 2008.\n\nCJTF-HOA consists of about 2,000 servicemen and women from the United States military and allied countries. The official area of responsibility comprises Sudan, Somalia, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Seychelles and Kenya. Outside this Combined Joint Operating Area, the CJTF-HOA has operations in Mauritius, Comoros, Liberia, Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania. The American contribution to the operation, aside from advisers, supplies, and other forms of non-combat support, consists mainly of drone strikes targeted at Al-Shabaab. These are estimated to have killed roughly 400 militants as well as 3 to 10 civilians. Other American combat operations include manned airstrikes, cruise missile strikes, and special forces raids.\n\nOn 9 December 2002 Spanish frigate SPS \"Navarra\" (F85) intercepted the unflagged freighter \"So San\" several hundred miles southeast of Yemen at the request of the United States government. The frigate fired across \"So San\"s bow after the freighter ignored hails and attempted to evade the frigate. The freighter's crew was North Korean; 23 containers containing 15 complete Scud ballistic missiles, 15 high-explosive warheads, and 23 nitric acid (used as an oxidizer for fueling Scud missiles) containers were found on board. Yemen claimed ownership of the shipment and protested the interception and U.S. officials released the vessel after receiving assurances that the missiles would not be transferred to a third party.\n\nPirates are rampant along the coast of Somalia and present a hazard to all shipping there; as such, anti-piracy operations are a routine part of Operation Enduring Freedom: Horn of Africa. This is done primarily by the Combined Task Force 150 and in parallel to other independent anti-piracy operations conducted off the coast of Somalia by other countries such as China, India and Russia.\n\nThe U.S. Coast Guard Cutter USCGC \"Munro\" (WHEC-724), working with carrier and the destroyer in the Gulf of Aden, intercepted a hijacked vessel at around noon on 17 March. The interception was ordered after Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Central Command (COMUSNAVCENT) received telephone reports from the International Maritime Bureau's Piracy Reporting Center in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, concerning the hijacking of the Thai-flagged fishing boat \"Sirichai Nava 12\" by three Somalis on the evening of 16 March, as well as a fax indicating that the hijackers demanded U.S. $800,000 in ransom for the vessel's crew.\n\nCommander, Combined Task Force (CTF) 150 tasked \"Invincible\", \"Nottingham\" and \"Munro\" to investigate the situation. A Visit, Board, Search and Seizure (VBSS) team from \"Munro\" boarded \"Sirichai Nava\", while a boarding team from \"Nottingham\" went on to a second fishing vessel, \"Ekhwat Patana\", which was with the Thai vessel. \"Munro\"s boarding team detained the Somalis without incident.\n\nOne of the crew members of the Thai vessel had a minor flesh wound, which was treated by the \"Munro\" boarding team. The Coast Guardsmen also discovered four automatic weapons in the pilothouse, expended ammunition shells on the deck of the vessel, as well as ammunition on the detained suspects. The three suspects were transferred to \"Munro\". The \"Munro\" was assigned to CTF 150, which is the Coalition maritime task force conducting Maritime Security Operations (MSO) in the vicinity of the Horn of Africa, Gulf of Aden, Red Sea, North Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman.\n\nOn 21 January 2006, , an \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer, captured a vessel operating off the Somali coast whose crew were suspected of piracy.\n\nOn 18 March 2006, , a \"Ticonderoga\"-class cruiser and , an \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer, engaged pirate vessels after receiving fire from them.\n\nOn 3 June 2007, , a landing ship dock, engaged pirates attacking a freighter, but failed to repel them.\n\nOn 28 October 2007, the destroyer , opened fire on pirates who had captured a freighter and with other vessels blockaded a port the pirates attempted to take refuge in.\n\nOn 20 January, a 14 Royal Malaysian Navy PASKAL assault teams engaging seven Somali pirates on board the Japanese-Malaysian chemical freighter MT \"Bunga Laurel\", about east of Oman, near Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea, resulting in 3 pirates wounded, 4 remaining pirates captured, and the freeing of 23 Filipino hostages after gunfighting aboard the vessel.\n\nIn the early morning of 22 January, 15 ROKN UDT/SEAL members boarded the 11,000-ton chemical freighter \"Samho Jewelry\" which was taken by 13 pirates six days prior; killed 8 pirates and captured 5 without taking any casualties after three hours of intense firefighting. All 21 hostages were secured, with one hostage suffering a non-fatal gunshot wound to the abdomen.\n\nOn 12 April, intercepted a pirate vessel, capturing 34 pirates and freeing 34 hostages. Later that day, opened fire on another pirate vessel, killing 2 pirates.\n\nA hijacked dhow was hailed by on 10 May, after which 7 pirates on board immediately surrendered. The ship's 15 crew members claimed they were hijacked 6 months prior and their ship was used as a mothership for the pirates.\n\nOn 16 May, exchanged fire with \"Jih Chun Tsai 68\", a known pirate mothership. When a boarding team arrived, they found 3 pirates dead and captured 2 pirates.\n\nThe Danish Navy vessel, HDMS \"Esbern Snare\" exchanged fire with a hijacked boat, killing 4 pirates on 17 May. A boarding team subsequently captured 24 injured pirates and freed 16 hostages.\n\nOn 11 September, a Spanish Navy patrol boat engaged Somali pirates, freeing a French hostage after sinking the pirate skiff and capturing 7 pirates. The woman was taken hostage after pirates killed her husband and left her catamaran off the coast of Yemen.\n\nOn 11 October, Royal Marines embarked on board freed 23 crew members of a hijacked Italian cargo ship after it had been captured by pirates 5 days earlier. USS \"DeWert\" was the first vessel to arrive on scene after gathering intelligence on the whereabouts of the vessel and deploying counter intelligence surveillance units in the area.\n\nOn 3 October, the Tanzania navy freed a hijacked vessel and apprehended seven pirates, They are handed over to civilian police for further action.\n\nOn 31 October, the Kenyan military announced that they had captured 2 pirate skiffs, sunk 3, and killed 18 pirates.\n\nActing on intelligence from other counter-piracy forces, boarded the Indian-flagged dhow, \"Al Qashmi\" on 6 January. By the time the search team boarded, all evidence of potential piracy had been disposed of, though the crew said they were hijacked by the 9 pirates on board from a different vessel. The 9 suspected pirates were disarmed and given sufficient fuel and provisions to return to Somalia.\n\nThe next day, the Danish warship intercepted an Iranian-flagged dhow after identifying it as a potential pirate mother ship. Warning shots had to be fired before a search team boarded. In addition to the crew of 5 Iranian and 9 Pakistani nationals, the team seized 25 pirates. The captured pirates were then taken aboard \"Absalon\" to determine whether they should be prosecuted.\n\nA third pirate vessel was intercepted on 13 January. RFA \"Fort Victoria\" fired off warning shots to stop the vessel and then launched a boarding party. The pirates surrendered without incident and search uncovered several RPGs and automatic weapons. Royal Marines held the pirates for further investigation.\n\nHDMS \"Absalon\" had been observing a pirate mother ship for several days when it attempted to leave the coast of Somalia on 28 February. Danish forces fired on the ship, forcing it to stop. On board were 17 pirates and 18 hostages, though two of the hostages later died from wounds sustained. NATO said that an investigation would be held regarding the hostages' deaths.\n\nOn October 11, pirates attacked Hong Kong registered tanker \"Island Splendor\" and attacked a Spanish fishing vessel 3 days later. Suspected to have been carried out by the same group of pirates, they were tracked down by RFA \"Fort Victoria\", supported by , , European Union flagship , and a Seychelles-based maritime patrol aircraft from Luxembourg. The pirate skiffs were tracked by \"Melbourne\"s Seahawk helicopter, a boarding team from \"Melbourne\" searched the skiffs, they successfully apprehended nine pirates and later destroyed two skiffs and their equipment.\n\nBy December 2013, the US Office of Naval Intelligence reported that only 9 vessels had been attacked during the year by the pirates, with no successful hijackings. Control Risks attributed this 90% decline in pirate activity from the corresponding period in 2012 to the adoption of best management practices by vessel owners and crews, armed private security onboard ships, a significant naval presence, and the development of onshore security forces.\n\nOn 1 July 2006, a web-posted message purportedly written by Osama bin Laden urged Somalis to build an Islamic state in the country and warned western states that his al-Qaeda network would fight against them if they intervened there.\n\nOn 11 July 2006, the Islamic Courts Union (ICU) took control of the Somali capital Mogadishu, and by the beginning of December had firm control of most of the south of Somalia. In November 2006, a United States Marine detachment was in the town of Garissa in Kenya's North Eastern Province, adjoining Somalia. Officially, the Marines were an engineering detachment conducting a humanitarian mission of drilling bore holes in conjunction with the Kenya military to support flood relief. However, locals speculated that the Marines were performing a reconnaissance mission close to the Somali border. On 26 November 2006, the U.S. Embassy in Kenya issued a travel alert to U.S. citizens regarding travel to Kenya or Ethiopia after letters allegedly written by the Somalian leader of the Islamic Courts Union (ICU), Sheik Hassan Dahir Aweys, encouraged suicide attacks on U.S. citizens in those two countries.\n\nOn 14 December 2006, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Jendayi Frazer warned that al-Qaeda cell operatives were controlling the Islamic Courts Union, the Islamist faction of Somalia rapidly taking control of the southern area of the country. The next day, ICU Information Secretary Abdirahim Ali Mudey denied the allegation as baseless. Frazer later announced that the United States has no intention of committing troops to Somalia to root out al-Qaeda.\n\nOn 27 December 2006, \"The New York Times\" reported analysts in Nairobi, Kenya claimed U.S. surveillance aircraft were funneling information to Ethiopian forces. Major Kelley Thibode, a spokeswoman for the task force of American military personnel based in Djibouti, said she was \"not at liberty to discuss\" the matter. Somali Prime Minister Ali Mohammed Ghedi declared one of the key objectives of the offensive on Kismayo was the capture of three alleged al-Qaeda members, suspects wanted for the 1998 United States embassy bombings in East Africa: Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan and Abu Taha al-Sudani. At the time, the United States Fifth Fleet's maritime task force (Combined Task Force 150) based out of Bahrain, was patrolling off the Somali coast to prevent terrorists launching an \"attack or to transport personnel, weapons or other material,\" said Commander Kevin Aandahl. The announcement did not say what particular ships comprised the cordon, but the task force includes vessels from Canada, France, Germany, Pakistan, the United Kingdom and the U.S. American ships of Combined Task Force 150 include the \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer and the \"Ticonderoga\"-class cruiser . The aim of the patrols shifted on 2 January 2007, according to diplomats, to \"... stop SICC leaders or foreign militant supporters escaping\".\n\nOn 2 January 2006, U.S. Marines operating out of Lamu, Kenya, were said to be assisting Kenyan forces patrolling the border with Somalia with the interception of Islamists. On 8 January it was reported that an AC-130 gunship belonging to the United States military had attacked suspected al-Qaeda operatives in southern Somalia. It was also reported that the aircraft carrier had been moved into striking distance. The aircraft flew out of its base in Djibouti. Many bodies were spotted on the ground, but the identity of the dead or wounded was not yet established. The targeted leaders were tracked by the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) as they headed south from Mogadishu starting on 28 December. It was reported that the leader of al-Qaeda in East Africa, Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, was killed in the attack, but later officials confirmed that he survived and also that none of the al-Qaeda operatives were killed. However, at least 8 militants of the ICU and at least 2 civilians were killed. On 9 January it was reported U.S. special forces and CIA operatives were working with Ethiopian troops on the ground in operations inside Somalia from a base in Galkayo, in Puntland, and from Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti. On 12 January, a small team of U.S. forces investigated the site of the U.S. gunship attack to search for information about the identity and fate of the targeted individuals.\n\nOn 17 January 2006, the Assistant Deputy Secretary of Defense for African affairs, Theresa Whelan, clarifed the airstrike conducted on 8 January was not the work of the CJTF-HOA, but of another force which she did not specify. The target of the strike was confirmed to be Aden Hashi Farah Ayro, who was believed wounded or possibly dead, while eight members of his group were killed in the attack. Likewise, many airstrikes which resulted in civilian casualties around Afmadow conducted by Ethiopian aircraft were mis-attributed to the United States. On 21 January the capture of U.S. troops was reported by the ICU's Qaadisiya.com site, as well as the death of one due to malaria, but this assertion was denied as \"utterly bogus\" by Michael Ranneberger, U.S. Envoy to Kenya and Somalia. On 24 January, the U.S. admitted to have made a second airstrike, but did not confirm the exact date or location of the strike. On 1 February 2007, the captured ICU leader Sharif Ahmed was released from Kenyan police authorities. He also was reported to have met with Michael Ranneberger allegedly to arrange for the release of the captured U.S. troops. By 8 February, Sheikh Sharif Sheik Ahmed had gone to Yemen where other ICU members are also thought to have gone. On that day, reports in the Yememi Arabic newspaper \"Al-nedaa\" stated Sharif Ahmed's release was the first conditional step to arrange the release of varying reports of 11 or 15 United States Marines allegedly captured during fighting in southern Somalia at the Battle of Ras Kamboni. Four Marines were also alleged to have been wounded in the fighting. However, while these stories of captured American soldiers were prevalent in Somali media, they received little or no attention in the Western media. United States involvement in the conflict continued through 2008 with airstrikes targeting suspected Al Qaeda affiliated militants including a strike of dubious success conducted on 2 March 2008 where at least one U.S. naval vessel launched cruise missiles against an Al Qaeda target in a strike on the village of Dobley and a successful strike on Dhusamareb which killed several militant leaders\n\nOn 6 May 2005, a United States Marine Corps unit reportedly landed in Somaliland, the autonomous and self-declared state in northern Somalia. The landings were purportedly conducted to carry out searches, as well as to question locals regarding the whereabouts of terrorist suspects. United States military officials denied the allegations and said operations were not being conducted in Somaliland.\n\nOperations against al-Qaeda linked terrorists continued in 2009 when on 14 September several U.S. Navy helicopters launched a raid in Baraawe against Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, killing him as well as five other militants. Also in 2009, Operators from the SAS and the SRR were deployed to Djibouti as part of Combined Joint Task Force – Horn of Africa to conducting operations against Islamist terrorists in Somalia; carrying out missions focusing on surveillance and targeting of terrorists, alongside their US counterparts, they have also been carrying out this role in Yemen. On 25 January 2012, two U.S. Navy Seal teams raided a compound 12 miles north of Adow, Somalia, freeing two hostages while killing nine pirates and capturing five others. On 5 October 2013, American commandos from DEVGRU launched an amphibous raid on the town of Baraawe engaging with al-Shabaab militants and inflicting some casualties on them before withdrawing. On 5 March 2016, U.S. airstrikes carried out by aircraft and unmanned drones killed more than 150 Al-Shabaab terrorists at a terrorist training camp called \"Camp Raso\", located about 120 miles north of Mogadishu as they were completing \"training for a large-scale attack\" according to a Pentagon spokesman. The camp had been under surveillance for some time before the strike. In the early hours of 9 March 2016, U.S. special forces and Somali national army special forces killed between 1 and 15 Al-Shabaab terrorists in a heliborne-attack on the Al-Shabaab-controlled town of Awdhegele, as well as capturing an undisclosed number of high-value Al-Shabaab figures the mililtants were training for a major operation against coalition forces. On 11/12 April 2016, two U.S. airstrikes on Al-Shabaab targets in the town of Kismayo killed about a dozen suspected militants who posed a \"imminent threat\" to American troops in the country. As of May 2016, roughly 50 U.S. special operations troops operate at undisclosed locations across southern Somalia, with their headquarters at the airport in Mogadishu; advising and assisting, Kenyan, Somali and Ugandan forces in their fight against Al-Shabaab. Also in that month, U.S. personnel helped those forces plan an operation against illegal checkpoints. On May 13, a U.S. strike targeted nine al-Shabab militants, three of them were allegedly killed. On June 1, 2016, the Pentagon announced that it had conducted an airstrike that killed a senior Al-Shabaab leader in Somalia on May 27. On August 3, 2016, a contingent of elite American troops acting as military advisers assisted Somali commandos in an assault on an al-Shabaab checkpoint in Saakow, as the Somali-led force approached the checkpoint the militants opened fire, a gun battle ensued that resulted in 3 militants killed. On September 29, 2016, the \"Military Times\" reported that on September 26 a bomb-manufacturing network linked al-Shabaab attacked a small team of U.S. and Somali troops, who were conducting an operation near Kismayo, with small-arms fire. A Pentagon spokesman said the U.S. military \"conducted a self-defense strike to neutralize the threat and in doing so killed nine enemy fighters.\" Also on September 28, near the town of Galkayo, a Somali army unit conducting counterterrorism operations nearby, when the Somali soldiers came under fire from al-Shabab militants. The Somali soldiers engaged them, then broke contact and rejoined with their nearby American advisers and soon afterwards the militants \"began to maneuver in an offensive manner\" so the U.S. conducted a self-defense airstrike, killing 4 militants.\n\n\n26 U.S. servicemen have been killed in non-hostile incidents in Djibouti since the start of operations in the Horn of Africa.\n\nThree U.S. soldiers were killed in accidents in Kenya.\n\nTwo U.S. soldiers were killed in a vehicle accident in Ethiopia.\n\nTwo U.S. servicemen were killed in the Republic of Seychelles and in the Gulf of Oman, respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57023481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57023481", "title": "Sarajevo Youth Film Festival", "text": "Sarajevo Youth Film Festival\n\nThe Sarajevo Youth Film Festival () is an annual film festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is held in September and showcases an extensive variety of feature, animated and short films from around the world. The main focus of the festival is on promoting young film directors and producers, student films and youth-themed films. It is the premium student film festival in the Balkans. \n\nThe festival was established by film professionals from Bosnia and Herzegovina with the goal of giving younger filmmakers from the Former Yugoslavia a wider platform to promote their work. It was quickly internationalized even further, bringing in authors from all of Europe, North America and Asia. The first edition of the festival was organized from 9 to 13 September 2008. The festival is held in numerous venues with the main stage being the House of the Military in downtown Sarajevo. Most of the venues are open-air. On average 30 authors from 11 different countries are programmed per edition, with over 50,000 visitors each year. The average age of festival employees is 22, while the management is headed by Kenan Musić. The main feature film competition program is called \"Made for Open Air\". \n\nMAIN PROGRAM: Short meter, short feature film \n\nMain program is the selection of a short feature film. Within this selection are young film professionals with their short films created in their own production or production of their film schools. The \"Short Meter\" Selection at the 10th edition of Youth Film Festival Sarajevo will present a 15 shorts.\n\nCOMPETITION PROGRAM: Creative, art and experimental film\n\nOne of the competition selections of the festival is the selection of a short experimental, art and creative film. This selection in 2018 wil presents 5 films.\n\nCOMPETITION PROGRAM: OFF Generation\n\n\"OFF Generation\" is the old program of the Festival but with a new name. As in previous years, this program will present 5 films that are designed for the young generation of 15-26 years old and directed by former or recent film academy students.\n\nSPECIAL SCREENINGS: Family movies\n\nOne of the goals of the Youth Film Festival Sarajevo, from the outset, was to create unique cinema locations and special atmosphere during sreenings at open-air cinemas. For this reason, OFF continues with projections of 5 family, feature films that will be screened as part of the Open Cinema at Žuto tabija, OS BiH and as part of the new open air venue of the festival in the center of Sarajevo - OFF Drive in cinema.\n\nBest short: FABIJAN - Croatia, Director: Lovro Mrđen, Award: 1.000,00, TV Premiere, Best Documentary Film: WEDDING PACKAGE - Director: Omer Mirac Turc, Award: 1.000,00, TV Premiere, Best Male Role: FILIP KRIŽAR, Film \"Fabijan\" - Croatia, Prize: 500,00 KM, Best Female Role: CATHRINE SALEE - Film \"Marlon\" - France ,Prize: 500,00 KM \n\n"}
{"id": "3252248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252248", "title": "Spirit West Coast", "text": "Spirit West Coast\n\nSpirit West Coast (SWC) is a Christian music festival that features Christian artists from several different genres. It also features lectures, workshops in tents, kids' shows, petting zoos, and comedians.\n\nSpirit West Coast was founded by five families in 1995. It began in 1997 as a yearly festival in Monterey, California. Later, an additional festival in Del Mar, California was added. These two festivals are held every summer. The festivals are members of the Christian Festival Association.\n\nMany of the most popular Christian acts play concerts for the attendees. These include Michael W. Smith, Audio Adrenaline, Newsboys, Delirious?, Chris Tomlin, Tree63, Jeremy Camp, Armour Under Fire, Rebecca St. James, Skillet, The Kry, Toby Mac, Jars of Clay, and many others.\n\nSome of the top Christian speakers and authors give lectures/sermons at Spirit West Coast festivals. Past speakers include Charles Stanley, Greg Laurie, Luis Palau, Tony Campolo, Frank Peretti, Miles McPherson, Ron Luce, and Louie Giglio.\n\nCompassion International is one of the focuses of SWC. Compassion has a tent where they encourage people to sponsor hungry and needy children in other countries. SWC keeps track of the number of sponsorships and announces the growing number over their loudspeaker.\n\nThe layout of Spirit West Coast consists of a main stage with large screens for those that have to stand or sit far away. In addition, it features side stages (some inside tents), several merchandise tents, and various other tents (e.g. first aid, lost and found, etc.). There are also numerous food vendors on site.\n\nSWC offers camping to those that don't live nearby and to those that don't want to stay in hotels. Buses run from the campgrounds to the main stage, so people don't have to walk too far. These buses generally run until about midnight.\n\nMany church groups attend Spirit West Coast. They pack their youth groups into buses and drive to Monterey or Del Mar. SWC offers a special rate for groups. One group calling themselves the \"Traveling Circus\" has made particularly visible appearances at the concert every year, starting large dance pits at performances. The group is made of a dozen or so Christian punks, goths and hippies.\n\nThese festivals last between 3–4 days. They start around 9am and end around midnight each night. People of all faiths (and no faith) can and do attend. There are invitational messages to repent and trust in Jesus, presented both by the event staff and the individual musicians, and there are also baptisms held at the Monterey festival.\n\nSpirit West Coast is run almost entirely by volunteers. Volunteers typically work four- or nine-hour shifts. Some, namely IT, electrical, construction, kitchen crews, operations, navigators, and a few others, work MANY more hours. For these individuals, SWC is an adventure and family reunion that they look forward to year after year. For these departments, and many others, onsite work often begins a week prior to the festival start date and doesn't end for days after when the last items are packed up and stored for the following year. There is much to be done to convert the Del Mar Fairgrounds into a festival site, and even more to be done to convert the dust bowl of Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca.\n\n"}
{"id": "28943715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28943715", "title": "Teatro San Samuele", "text": "Teatro San Samuele\n\nTeatro San Samuele was an opera house and theatre located at the Rio del Duca, between Campo San Samuele and Campo Santo Stefano, in Venice. One of several important theatres built in that city by the Grimani family, the theatre opened in 1656 and operated continuously until a fire destroyed the theatre in 1747. A new structure was built and opened in 1748, but financial difficulties forced the theatre to close and be sold in 1770. The theatre remained active until 1807 when it was shut down by Napoleonic decree. It reopened in 1815 and was later acquired by impresario Giuseppe Camploy in 1819. In 1853 the theatre was renamed the Teatro Camploy. Upon Camploy's death in 1889, the theatre was bequeathed to the City of Verona. The Venice City Council in turn bought the theatre and demolished it in 1894.\n\nOne of the most important Venetian theatres of the 17th and 18th centuries, the Teatro San Samuele was constructed in 1656 through a commission made by the Grimani family a year earlier. Initially the theatre was used primarily for plays but in the 18th century the house became more closely associated with opera and ballet. The famous playwright and librettist Carlo Goldoni notably served as the theatre's director from 1737–1741, and many of his works were premiered at the theatre during his career. \n\nThe original Teatro San Samuele was destroyed by fire on the last night of September 1747. A new theatre was built in almost identical design and opened in May 1748 as opulent competition for the Teatro San Giovanni Grisostomo. The new theatre became associated with the opera buffa repertoire, as the Grimani family preferred to stage opera seria and other more dramatic works at their other theatre, the Teatro San Benedetto (built 1755). \n\nAt the end of the 18th century the Teatro San Samuele lost much of its former prestige. In 1770 the Grimani family had been forced to sell the theatre due to the economic crisis that hit the Venetian aristocracy. The theatre continued to operate until 6 April 1807 when it was ordered closed by a Napoleonic decree which also shut down the Teatro San Cassiano, the Teatro San Angelo, and the Teatro San Luca. The San Samuele and the San Luca were re-opened after a 21 April 1815 Austrian decree.\n\nIn 1819 the Teatro San Samuele was acquired by impresario Giuseppe Camploy. With the exception of the 1840s when performances were sporadic, the theatre remained continuously active until Camploy's death in 1889. In 1853 the theatre was renamed as the Teatro Camploy. In the third edition of Murray's \"Hand-book for travellers in northern Italy\" (1847) Sir Francis Palgrave reported \"It is a pretty theatre well adapted for hearing. Opera buffas are performed here\" In his will, Camploy bequeathed the theatre to the City of Verona. The Venice City Council bought it and, after demolishing the theatre in 1894, built the A. Scarsellini elementary school on the former site of the theatre.\n\n\nOpera houses and theatres of Venice\n"}
{"id": "20908059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20908059", "title": "Teatro de la Zarzuela", "text": "Teatro de la Zarzuela\n\nThe Teatro de la Zarzuela is a theatre in Madrid, Spain. The theatre is today mainly devoted to zarzuela (the Spanish traditional musical theatre genre), as well as operetta and recitals.\n\nThe theatre was designed by architect Jerónimo de la Gándara and built by José María Sánchez Guallart on the initiative of the Spanish Lyrical Company to provide a space for performances of operettas in the Spanish capital. It was modelled on the La Scala theatre in Milan with its three-level horseshoe form and opened to the public on 10 October 1856, the birthday of Queen Isabella II. The name refers to zarzuela, a theatre form that alternates spoken and sung scenes. Its promoters were established masters of the genre such as Francisco Asenjo Barbieri, Rafael Calleja Gómez, Joaquín Gaztambide, Rafael Hernando, José Inzenga, baritono Francisco de Salas, librettist Luis de Olona and composer Cristóbal Oudrid, under Francisco de las Rivas, an important banker.\n\nIn the second half of the nineteenth century, Teatro de la Zarzuela became Madrid's leading opera house, staging many of the great masterworks. On November 9, 1909 the building was virtually destroyed by fire. The rebuild by Cesareo Iradier reduced the amount of wood and metal, and in 1914 Maestro Luna raised the curtain with his orchestra to reopen the theatre. With the Teatro Real opera house closed from 1925 to 1997, Teatro de la Zarzuela remained Madrid's leading venue throughout the period and hosted most major opera events. The theatre's resident ensemble is the Community of Madrid Orchestra.\n\nThe ceiling originally featured magnificent works by the painters Francisco Hernández Tomé and Manuel Castellanos, but these were destroyed in renovations and structural changes that were made in 1956. The theatre then was acquired by the Sociedad General de Autores de España, although much of the facade and interior ornamentation was lost. Later it became the property of the state. In 1984 the Ministry of Culture, with Madrid still lacking an opera house, expanded the range of activities beyond zarzuela and opera to encompass flamenco and other dance. The building was given heritage status in 1994, and in 1998 was again remodelled, restoring much of the original structure and form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54078674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54078674", "title": "Usinternetworking Inc", "text": "Usinternetworking Inc\n\nUSinternetworking, Inc. (USi) was an application service provider. It offered outsourced business applications delivered over the Internet or a private network connection for an installation charge and a flat monthly fee. In October 2006, it was acquired by AT&T.\n\nThe company was founded in January 1998 by Christopher R. McCleary, Chris Poelma and Stephen McManus\n\nEarly investors included Grotech and US West.\n\nIn February 1998, the company pursued a merger with PSINet but was rejected.\n\nIn May 1998, the company signed a lease for its 24,000 square foot office.\n\nOn April 9, 1999, during the dot-com bubble, the company became a public company via an initial public offering. Shares rose 174% on the first day of trading, ending the day at $57.50 per share.\n\nOn April 26, 1999, the company was named the first certified Broadvision application service provider.\n\nIn November 1999, the company announced an agreement to develop Microsoft Office 2000 as an online service.\n\nIn July 2000, founder Christopher R. McCleary resigned as chief executive officer of the company and was replaced with Andrew Stern.\n\nIn August 2000, the company acquired EnableVision.\n\nBy July 2001, after the bursting of the dot-com bubble, shares were trading for $1 each.\n\nIn January 2002, the company filed bankruptcy. It emerged in May 2002 with financing from Bain Capital and a merger with Interpath.\n\nIn September 2003, Stephen A. Mucchetti was named chief operating officer of the company.\n\nIn June 2004, the company acquired Appshop for between $40 million and $50 million.\n\nIn October 2006, AT&T acquired the company for $300 million.\n"}
{"id": "26419593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26419593", "title": "Web 2.0 Summit", "text": "Web 2.0 Summit\n\nThe Web 2.0 Summit (originally known as the Web 2.0 Conference) was an annual event, held in San Francisco, California from 2004 to 2011, that featured discussions about the World Wide Web. The event was started by Tim O'Reilly, who is also widely credited with popularizing the term \"Web 2.0\". It was organized by O'Reilly's company, O'Reilly Media, with O'Reilly and journalist/entrepreneur John Battelle serving as co-moderators. The Web 2.0 Summit was an invitation-only event and featured many of the most prominent entrepreneurs and thinkers of the web community.\n\nSpin-off events included the Web 2.0 Expo, which lasted from 2007 to 2011, and the Gov 2.0 Summit, which occurred in 2009 and 2010.\n\nThe first Web 2.0 conference was held October 5–7, 2004 at the Hotel Nikko in San Francisco. It is believed to be the point at which the term Web 2.0 came into popular usage. Speakers at the conference included Jeff Bezos, Mark Cuban, John Doerr, Mary Meeker, Craig Newmark, Marc Andreessen, Cory Doctorow, Bill Gross, Lawrence Lessig, Halsey Minor, Louis Monier and Jerry Yang.\n\nThe 2005 Web 2.0 Conference was held October 5–7, 2005 at the Argent Hotel in San Francisco. Speakers included Stewart Butterfield, Mark Cuban, Bram Cohen, Mena Trott, Joe Kraus, Vinod Khosla, Barry Diller, Mary Meeker, Ray Ozzie, Terry Semel and Evan Williams.\n\nIn 2006, the event was renamed \"Web 2.0 Summit\". The 2006 event's theme was \"Disruption & Opportunity\". It was held November 7–9, 2006 at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. Speakers included Jeff Bezos, Barry Diller, Joi Ito, Roger McNamee, Ray Ozzie, Eric Schmidt, Arthur Sulzberger, Jr. and Ben Trott.\n\nThe 2007 Web 2.0 Summit was held November 5–7, 2007 at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. The theme was \"Discovering the Web's Edge\". Speakers included Steve Ballmer, Steve Case, John Doerr, Craig Venter and Mark Zuckerberg.\n\nThe 2008 Web 2.0 Summit was held November 5–7, 2008 at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. The theme was \"Web Meets World\". Speakers included Edgar Bronfman, Jr., Al Gore, Arianna Huffington, Vinod Khosla, Max Levchin, Gavin Newsom, Evan Williams, Jerry Yang and Mark Zuckerberg.\n\nThe 2009 Web 2.0 Summit was held October 20–22, 2009 at the Westin Hotel in San Francisco. Speakers included Tim Armstrong, Carol Bartz, Tim Berners-Lee, Carly Fiorina, Peter Guber, Jeffrey Immelt, Sheryl Sandberg and Evan Williams.\n\nThe 2010 Web 2.0 Summit was held November 15–17, 2010 at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. The theme was \"Points of Control\". Speakers included Carol Bartz, Tony Hsieh, Marc Benioff, Eric Schmidt, Jeff Weiner, Evan Williams and Mark Zuckerberg.\n\nThe 2011 Web 2.0 Summit was held October 17–19, 2011 at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. The theme was \"The Data Frame\". Speakers included Steve Ballmer, Marc Benioff, Dennis Crowley, Michael Dell, Reid Hoffman, MC Hammer, Sean Parker and Christopher \"moot\" Poole.\n\nThe Web 2.0 Summit conference was not held in 2012 because co-organizer John Battelle lacked the time to help organize it while working on the book he was writing. Battelle stated that the conference might continue in subsequent years.\n\nThere has not been a subsequent Web 2.0 Summit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5140022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140022", "title": "World Heritage Rock Art Centre - Alta Museum", "text": "World Heritage Rock Art Centre - Alta Museum\n\nThe World Heritage Rock Art Centre - Alta Museum (\"Verdensarvsenter for bergkunst – Alta Museum\") is located at Alta in Finnmark, Norway. Norway.\n\nWorld Heritage Rock Art - Alta Museum is situated in Hjemmeluft, a small bay on Altafjord near the Arctic Circle. Alta Museum is northern Norway's most-visited summer museum, with more than 1,000 visitors each day. It presents exhibitions on local culture and historic industries including the nearby prehistoric rock carvings that form a UNESCO World Heritage Site. \n\nAlta Museum is situated at the site of early settlement of Finnmark dating from around 11,000 years ago. In 1973, the first rock carvings in Hjemmeluft were found. To date over 3,000 figures have been registered here. The museum opened in June 1991 and won the European Museum of the Year Award in 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "54003520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54003520", "title": "World Wide Day of Genital Autonomy", "text": "World Wide Day of Genital Autonomy\n\nThe World Wide Day of Genital Autonomy (WWDOGA) is a campaign day to oppose circumcision of infants initiated by the German \"Facharbeitskreis Beschneidungsbetroffener im MOGiS e.V.\". Since 2013, it is celebrated on each 7 May in many countries and regarded by the press. This date has been chosen because on May 7, 2012, the District Court of Cologne (Germany) has judged for the first time in Germany, that the circumcision of male children is an assault.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6726312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6726312", "title": "Youth Internet Safety Survey", "text": "Youth Internet Safety Survey\n\nThe Youth Internet Safety Survey was a series of two surveys conducted in the United States in 1999 and 2004. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC) provided funding to Dr. David Finkelhor, Director of the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire, to conduct a research survey in 1999 on Internet victimization of youth. His research was cited by the United States Department of Justice as \"the best profile of this problem to date\".\n\nCrimes Against Children Research Center staff interviewed a nationally representative sample youth, aged 10 to 17, who used the Internet regularly. There were 1501 subjects in the first survey in 1999, and 1500 in the second survey in 2005.\n\nResults from the surveys have been quoted in support of the Deleting Online Predators Act of 2006, saying that \"one in five children had received an unwanted online solicitation of a sexual nature\". This is a reference to the 19% found in the first survey (see \"First Survey\" below). This is potentially misleading, since some have interpreted this as implying adults soliciting offline sexual contact from children. The 19% includes solicitation from minors to minors, and are not generally requests for physical/\"offline\" contact. The same survey found that none of the solicitations led to an actual sexual contact or assault.\n\nThe more complete results and recommendations are included below.\n\nInternet user: using the Internet at least once a month for the past six months at home, school, a library, or some other place.\n\nSexual solicitations and approaches: Requests to engage in sexual activities or sexual talk or give personal sexual information that were unwanted or, whether wanted or not, made by an adult. Note that this includes solicitation from other minors, so unwanted advances by a 13-year-old on a 14-year-old are included in this.\n\nAggressive sexual solicitation: Sexual solicitations involving offline contact with the perpetrator through regular mail, by telephone, or in person or attempts or requests for offline contact.\n\nUnwanted exposure to sexual material: Without seeking or expecting sexual material, being exposed to pictures of naked people or people having sex when doing online searches, surfing the web, opening E-mail or instant messages, or opening links in E-mail or instant messages.\n\nHarassment: Threats or other offensive behavior (not sexual solicitation), sent online to the youth or posted online about the youth for others to see.\n\nNot all such incidents were distressing to the youth who experienced them. Distressing incidents were episodes where youth rated themselves as very or extremely upset or afraid as a result of the incident.\n\nKnown as YISS-1. This was conducted between August 1999 and February 2000. It interviewed 1501 youth Internet users, ages 10 through 17.\n\nRegarding \"Sexual Solicitations and Approaches\", the survey found:\n\nOne-third of the surveyed youth who had received a solicitation were male; two-thirds were female. The great majority (77 percent) of the victims were 14 to 17 years old; however, almost one quarter were ages 10 to 13. The younger group reported 37 percent of the distressing solicitations.\n\nRegarding \"Unwanted Exposure to Sexual Material\", the survey found:\n\nA slightly higher percentage of boys than girls reported exposures (57 percent vs. 42 percent) or distressing exposures (55 percent vs. 45 percent). Almost two-thirds of exposures were to youth ages 15 to 17. Less than one-tenth were to 11- and 12-year-olds, and none to 10-year-olds.\n\nRegarding harassment, the survey found:\n\nKnown as YISS-2. This was conducted between March and June 2005. It interviewed 1500 youth Internet users, ages 10 through 17.\n\nRegarding \"Sexual Solicitations and Approaches\", the survey found:\nRegarding \"Unwanted Exposure to Sexual Material\", the survey found:\n\nRegarding harassment, the survey found:\n\n"}
