{"id": "52230377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52230377", "title": "2nd Congress of the Communist Party of India", "text": "2nd Congress of the Communist Party of India\n\nThe 2nd Congress of the Communist Party of India was held in Calcutta, West Bengal from February 28 to March 6, 1948. At the Second Party Congress, the party line shifted dramatically under the new General Secretary B.T. Ranadive and subsequently the party engaged in revolutionary insurrections across the country.\n\nThe party had seen a rapid growth in membership in the years preceding the Second Party Congress, reaching around 89,000. In 1935 there had been only around 1,000 CPI members, and by 1943 the number had increased to around 16,000.\n\nWhilst the CPI constitution stipulated that an All India Party Conference be held yearly under normal conditions, the last one had been held in 1943. By the time the Second Party Congress finally convened, P.C. Joshi had served a 13-year term as Party General Secretary. \n\nWhen the Second Party Congress convened, CPI stood at a crossroads. Either they would work within the constitutional framework of the newly independent Indian state or it would engage in insurrectional revolutionary struggles. The incumbent CPI General Secretary, P.C. Joshi, represented the former position, B.T. Ranadive (BTR) the latter. At the time of independence of India and Pakistan in 1947 CPI adhered to a moderate line of 'responsive cooperation' with the Indian National Congress and the Muslim League. But as of December 1947 the leftist group around BTR had won control over the Central Committee of the party. A key factor in the ascent of BTR and the defeat of the incumbent P. C. Joshi clique was post-Partition dissatisfaction with the past policy of alliance with the Muslim League. The group around BTR began to purge the followers of P.C. Joshi. The December meeting of the Central Committee sent out instruction to party branches to hastily elect delegates to the Second Party Congress.\n\n919 delegates were elected by the party branches, but only 632 were able to attend. For example, only a handful of the 75 delegates elected from Telangana were able to reach Calcutta. Out of the 632, 565 were party whole-timers.\n\nThree delegates represented party branches in West Pakistan: Eric Cyprian from Punjab, Jamaluddin Bokhari from Sind and Mohammad Hussein Ata from the North-West Frontier Province. Estimates on the number of delegates from East Pakistan vary, party documents suggested that 60 delegates participated, an intelligence estimate put the figure at 32. Delegates from East Pakistan included Kalpana Datta (P.C. Joshi's wife) and Khokar Roy. Moni Singh claimed that there had been 125 delegates from East Pakistan, representing 12,000 party members, as well as five delegates from West Pakistan.\n\nFrom French India, the local Communist Party leader and member of the French Senate V. Subbiah participated in the Second Party Congress. On February 24, 1948 he had made a visit to the French colony of Chandernagore together with the French delegate to the Calcutta Youth Conference (see below).\n\nThe congress was held under a big tarpaulin in Mohammad Ali Park. BTR held the opening speech of the conference, outlining the new party line. His speech lasted four and a half hours, and presented detailed criticism on the performance of the party leadership.\n\nSo far we have been taking a reformist path. We dovetailed with bourgeois interests. We could not take an independent stance in the movement on the issue of freedom. As a result, the reactionary forces of Congress and Muslim League through a forged alliance ushered in a so-called Independence. This is not real independence, it is false! Just as in a postwar situation, there is still grounds for revolution. That is why we must continue our struggle against the bourgeoisie. Strikes, mass rallies, demonstrations, and armed struggles must be used to challenge this false sense of freedom.\n\nBTR echoed the notion that the world was divided in two camps, and in the struggle between the Anglo-American imperialist camp and the Soviet-led democratic camp the Indian state had aligned itself with the imperialists. The second speech was held by Bhowani Sen who presented an overview of tactical questions. Sen presented criticism of the performance of the party 1942–1948, including the support to Sheikh Abdullah's movement in Jammu and Kashmir. The Telangana struggle was presented as the model to be replicated throughout the subcontinent.\n\nBTR and Bhowani's speeches were followed by a long presentation by the now isolated P.C. Joshi. P.C. Joshi expressed self-criticism, stating that he had 'confused and corrupted' the party during his tenure as General Secretary.\n\nThe main document debated by the Second Party Congress was its Political Thesis. Many amendments to the document were suggested by delegates, and the Central Committee was tasked with amending it later. The party constitution was amended at the Second Party Congress.\n\nBTR was elected as new General Secretary of the party. In the election to the new Central Committee all of the candidates proposed by the outgoing leadership were elected, with the exception of P.C. Joshi, who was left out of the new Central Committee.\n\nThe line adopted at the Second Party Congress became popularly known as the 'Ranadive thesis', the 'Ranadive line' or 'Calcutta thesis'. The Second Party Congress raised the slogan that the independence achieved in 1947 was 'sham independence'. The Indian National Congress was denounced as a party of the bourgeoisie. The People's Democratic Revolution was outlined as a one-stage revolution, to be achieved through a united front of workers, peasants and revolutionary intellectuals. Thus the Second Party Congress implied a drastic shift in CPI policy, gearing towards armed insurrection against the nascent Indian state. The new line found inspiration in the Zhdanov Doctrine of the All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks), which saw the world divided in an imperialist camp and a camp of people's democracies. It also drew upon the experiences of Bengali communists in the post-Partition chaos in Calcutta and the resistance against the Nizam regime in the Hyderabad State.\n\nAnother meeting held in the city around just a few days before the Second Party Congress was the Conference of Youth and Students of Southeast Asia Fighting for Freedom and Independence, which has been credited with disseminating the Zhdanov insurrectional line throughout the continent.\n\nBhowani Sen presented a 'Report on Pakistan' to the Second Party Congress. He argued that both India and Pakistan were dominated by similar reactionary elites in alliance with imperialist forces. Thus the task of communists in both countries would be the same, to struggle for people's democratic revolution. The Second Party Congress deliberated on the Pakistan question for some time, and eventually agreed that a separate Communist Party should be built in Pakistan. Sen's 'Report on Pakistan' was adopted with some amendments. After the vote the delegates from West Pakistan held a separate meeting at the sidelines of the CPI congress on March 6, 1948 and constituted the Communist Party of Pakistan. Sajjad Zaheer, founder of the All India Progressive Writers Association and a CPI Central Committee member, was named general secretary of the Communist Party of Pakistan. The other eight Central Committee members were Mohammad Hussain Ata, Jamaluddin Bokhari, Ibrahim (a labour leader), Khoka Roy, Nepal Nag, Krishna Binod Roy, Syed Abul Mansur Habibullah (from West Bengal, but moved to East Pakistan after the foundation of CPP) and Moni Singh.\n\nAfter the congress Zaheer travelled to West Pakistan to build the party there. He was no longer considered a CPI Central Committee member.\n\nNotably, the party structure in East Pakistan would remain under the supervision of the West Bengal committee of CPI for some time afterwards.\n\nFour foreign delegations attend the Second Party Congress: the League of Communists of Yugoslavia (Vladimir Dedijer and Radovan Zogović), the Communist Party of Australia (Lance Sharkey), the Communist Party of Burma (Thakin Than Tun, Thakin Ba Thein Tin, \"yebaw\" Aung Gyi, Bo Yan Aung, Khin Kyi and Hla Myaing) and the Communist Party of Ceylon. \n\nDedijer's speech detailed the struggle of Yugoslav Partisans and was met with heavy applause from the assembled delegates. Acting as \"de facto\" representatives of Cominform, the Yugoslav delegates provided important symbolic support to legitimize B.T. Ranadive's coming to power in the party. The Burmese communist leader Thakin Than Tun also aroused the revolutionary fervour in his speech, highlighting that armed struggle alone would provide a path towards liberation.\n\nAlong with the Asian Youth Conference, the CPI Calcutta Congress is credited to have influenced the Burmese communists to initiate armed rebellion at home. Nevertheless, Bertil Lintner argues that the impact of the Calcutta meetings on CPB line is a myth, and that H.N. Goshal (who is credited with the 'Goshal thesis' of armed insurrection in Burma) never attended neither of the two Calcutta conferences.\n\nFollowing the Second Party Congress and under the leadership of BTR, the party embarked on an 18-month campaign of armed uprisings in Telangana, West Bengal (Kakdwip), Tripura and Travancore-Cochin between October 1948 and March 1950. In Malabar, the party raised the slogan \"Telangana's way is our way\" and \"Land to the tiller and Power to the People\" in a campaign April–May 1948. Paddy crops were seized by the party and sold at fair prices. The Malabar revolt was crushed by police forces.\n\nAfter the Second Party Congress CPI suffered a number of set-backs and repression, and party membership dropped to around 25,000 in early 1950. Likewise the membership of the communist-led All India Trade Union Congress dropped from 700,000 to a mere 100,000. On March 26 1950 CPI was banned by the West Bengal state government. The West Bengal ban would later be followed by prohibitions of the party in Amritsar, Malabar (1949–1951), Madras, Manipur, Ahmednagar, Hyderabad, Travancore-Cochin, Indore and Bhopal. On April 2, 1948 S.A. Dange and other key party leaders in Bombay were jailed. By 1949 2,500 party members were imprisoned across the country.\n\nIn January 1950 the Cominform instructed the party to abandon the insurrectional line, through an article in \"For a Lasting Peace, for a Peoples Democracy!\". BTR was demoted in June 1950, denounced as a 'left adventurist' and replaced by C. Rajeshwar Rao as General Secretary. In April 1951 Ajoy Ghosh became the new General Secretary and the Chinese-inspired guerrilla warfare line was condemned by the new CPI leadership. The Telangana rebellion did however, in spite of Cominform instructions, continue until late 1951. In 1951 CPI contested the first parliamentary elections and emerged as the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha.\n\nThe Madurai Party Congress, held in 1954, and the Palghat Party Congress of 1956 marked the definitive break with the 1948 line and fully embraced parliamentarian orientation of the party.\n"}
{"id": "358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358", "title": "Algeria", "text": "Algeria\n\nAlgeria (; ', Algerian Arabic '; ), officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, is a country in the Maghreb (Northwest Africa) on the Mediterranean coast. The capital and most populous city is Algiers, located in the far north of the country. With an area of , Algeria is the tenth-largest country in the world, and the largest in Africa. Algeria is bordered to the northeast by Tunisia, to the east by Libya, to the west by Morocco, to the southwest by the Western Saharan territory, Mauritania, and Mali, to the southeast by Niger, and to the north by the Mediterranean Sea. The country is a semi-presidential republic consisting of 48 provinces and 1,541 communes (counties).\n\nAncient Algeria has known many empires and dynasties, including ancient Numidians, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals, Byzantines, Umayyads, Abbasids, Idrisid, Aghlabid, Rustamid, Fatimids, Zirid, Hammadids, Almoravids, Almohads, Spaniards, Ottomans and the French colonial empire. Berbers are the indigenous inhabitants of Algeria.\n\nAlgeria is a regional and middle power. The North African country supplies large amounts of natural gas to Europe, and energy exports are the backbone of the economy. According to OPEC Algeria has the 16th largest oil reserves in the world and the second largest in Africa, while it has the 9th largest reserves of natural gas. Sonatrach, the national oil company, is the largest company in Africa. Algeria has one of the largest militaries in Africa and the largest defence budget on the continent; most of Algeria's weapons are imported from Russia, with whom they are a close ally. Algeria is a member of the African Union, the Arab League, OPEC, the United Nations and is a founding member of the Arab Maghreb Union.\n\nThe country's name derives from the city of Algiers. The city's name in turn derives from the Arabic ' (, \"The Islands\"), a truncated form of the older ' (, \"Islands of the Mazghanna Tribe\"), employed by medieval geographers such as al-Idrisi.\n\nIn the region of Ain Hanech (Saïda Province), early remnants (200,000 BC) of hominid occupation in North Africa were found. Neanderthal tool makers produced hand axes in the Levalloisian and Mousterian styles (43,000 BC) similar to those in the Levant. Algeria was the site of the highest state of development of Middle Paleolithic Flake tool techniques. Tools of this era, starting about 30,000 BC, are called Aterian (after the archeological site of Bir el Ater, south of Tebessa).\n\nThe earliest blade industries in North Africa are called Iberomaurusian (located mainly in the Oran region). This industry appears to have spread throughout the coastal regions of the Maghreb between 15,000 and 10,000 BC. Neolithic civilization (animal domestication and agriculture) developed in the Saharan and Mediterranean Maghreb perhaps as early as 11,000 BC or as late as between 6000 and 2000 BC. This life, richly depicted in the Tassili n'Ajjer paintings, predominated in Algeria until the classical period. The mixture of peoples of North Africa coalesced eventually into a distinct native population that came to be called Berbers, who are the indigenous peoples of northern Africa.\n\nFrom their principal center of power at Carthage, the Carthaginians expanded and established small settlements along the North African coast; by 600 BC, a Phoenician presence existed at Tipasa, east of Cherchell, Hippo Regius (modern Annaba) and Rusicade (modern Skikda). These settlements served as market towns as well as anchorages.\n\nAs Carthaginian power grew, its impact on the indigenous population increased dramatically. Berber civilization was already at a stage in which agriculture, manufacturing, trade, and political organization supported several states. Trade links between Carthage and the Berbers in the interior grew, but territorial expansion also resulted in the enslavement or military recruitment of some Berbers and in the extraction of tribute from others.\n\nBy the early 4th century BC, Berbers formed the single largest element of the Carthaginian army. In the Revolt of the Mercenaries, Berber soldiers rebelled from 241 to 238 BC after being unpaid following the defeat of Carthage in the First Punic War. They succeeded in obtaining control of much of Carthage's North African territory, and they minted coins bearing the name Libyan, used in Greek to describe natives of North Africa. The Carthaginian state declined because of successive defeats by the Romans in the Punic Wars.\n\nIn 146 BC the city of Carthage was destroyed. As Carthaginian power waned, the influence of Berber leaders in the hinterland grew. By the 2nd century BC, several large but loosely administered Berber kingdoms had emerged. Two of them were established in Numidia, behind the coastal areas controlled by Carthage. West of Numidia lay Mauretania, which extended across the Moulouya River in modern-day Morocco to the Atlantic Ocean. The high point of Berber civilization, unequaled until the coming of the Almohads and Almoravids more than a millennium later, was reached during the reign of Masinissa in the 2nd century BC.\n\nAfter Masinissa's death in 148 BC, the Berber kingdoms were divided and reunited several times. Masinissa's line survived until 24 AD, when the remaining Berber territory was annexed to the Roman Empire.\n\nFor several centuries Algeria was ruled by the Romans, who founded many colonies in the region. Like the rest of North Africa, Algeria was one of the breadbaskets of the empire, exporting cereals and other agricultural products. Saint Augustine was the bishop of Hippo Regius (modern-day Algeria), located in the Roman province of Africa. The Germanic Vandals of Geiseric moved into North Africa in 429, and by 435 controlled coastal Numidia. They did not make any significant settlement on the land, as they were harassed by local tribes. In fact, by the time the Byzantines arrived Lepcis Magna was abandoned and the Msellata region was occupied by the indigenous Laguatan who had been busy facilitating an Amazigh political, military and cultural revival.\n\nAfter negligible resistance from the locals, Muslim Arabs of the Umayyad Caliphate conquered Algeria in the mid-7th century and a large number of the indigenous people converted to the newly founded faith of Islam. After the fall of the Umayyad Caliphate, numerous local dynasties emerged, including the Aghlabids, Almohads, Abdalwadid, Zirids, Rustamids, Hammadids, Almoravids and the Fatimids.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, North Africa was home to many great scholars, saints and sovereigns including Judah Ibn Quraysh, the first grammarian to suggest the Afroasiatic language family, the great Sufi masters Sidi Boumediene (Abu Madyan) and Sidi El Houari, and the Emirs Abd Al Mu'min and Yāghmūrasen. It was during this time that the Fatimids or children of Fatima, daughter of Muhammad, came to the Maghreb. These \"Fatimids\" went on to found a long lasting dynasty stretching across the Maghreb, Hejaz and the Levant, boasting a secular inner government, as well as a powerful army and navy, made up primarily of Arabs and Levantines extending from Algeria to their capital state of Cairo. The Fatimid caliphate began to collapse when its governors the Zirids seceded. In order to punish them the Fatimids sent the Arab Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym against them. The resultant war is recounted in the epic Tāghribāt. In Al-Tāghrībāt the Amazigh Zirid Hero Khālīfā Al-Zānatī asks daily, for duels, to defeat the Hilalan hero Ābu Zayd al-Hilalī and many other Arab knights in a string of victories. The Zirids, however, were ultimately defeated ushering in an adoption of Arab customs and culture. The indigenous Amazigh tribes, however, remained largely independent, and depending on tribe, location and time controlled varying parts of the Maghreb, at times unifying it (as under the Fatimids). The Fatimid Islamic state, also known as Fatimid Caliphate made an Islamic empire that included North Africa, Sicily, Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, the Red Sea coast of Africa, Tihamah, Hejaz and Yemen. Caliphates from Northern Africa traded with the other empires of their time, as well as forming part of a confederated support and trade network with other Islamic states during the Islamic Era.\n\nThe Amazighs historically consisted of several tribes. The two main branches were the Botr and Barnès tribes, who were divided into tribes, and again into sub-tribes. Each region of the Maghreb contained several tribes (for example, Sanhadja, Houara, Zenata, Masmouda, Kutama, Awarba, and Berghwata). All these tribes made independent territorial decisions.\n\nSeveral Amazigh dynasties emerged during the Middle Ages in the Maghreb and other nearby lands. Ibn Khaldun provides a table summarising the Amazigh dynasties of the Maghreb region, the Zirid, Banu Ifran, Maghrawa, Almoravid, Hammadid, Almohad, Merinid, Abdalwadid, Wattasid, Meknassa and Hafsid dynasties.\n\nIn the early 16th century, Spain constructed fortified outposts (presidios) on or near the Algerian coast. Spain took control of few coastal towns like Mers el Kebir in 1505; Oran in 1509; and Tlemcen, Mostaganem and Ténès in 1510. In the same year, a few merchants of Algiers ceded one of the rocky islets in their harbour to Spain, which built a fort on it. The presidios in North Africa turned out to be a costly and largely ineffective military endeavour that did not guarantee access for Spain's merchant fleet.\n\nThere reigned in Ifriqiya, current Tunisia, a Berber family, Zirid, somehow recognising the suzerainty of the Fatimid caliph of Cairo. Probably in 1048, the Zirid ruler or viceroy, el-Mu'izz, decided to end this suzerainty. The Fatimid state was too weak to attempt a punitive expedition; The Viceroy, el-Mu'izz, also found another means of revenge.\n\nBetween the Nile and the Red Sea were living Bedouin tribes expelled from Arabia for their disruption and turbulent influence, both Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym among others, whose presence disrupted farmers in the Nile Valley since the nomads would often loot. The then Fatimid vizier devised to relinquish control of the Maghreb and obtained the agreement of his sovereign. This not only prompted the Bedouins to leave, but the Fatimid treasury even gave them a light expatriation cash allowance.\n\nWhole tribes set off with women, children, ancestors, animals and camping equipment. Some stopped on the way, especially in Cyrenaica, where they are still one of the essential elements of the settlement but most arrived in Ifriqiya by the Gabes region. The Zirid ruler tried to stop this rising tide, but each meeting, the last under the walls of Kairouan, his troops were defeated and Arabs remained masters of the field.\n\nThe flood was still rising, and in 1057 the Arabs spread on the high plains of Constantine where they gradually choked Qalaa of Banu Hammad, as they had done Kairouan few decades ago. From there they gradually gained the upper Algiers and Oran plains. Some were forcibly taken by the Almohads in the second half of the 12th century. We can say that in the 13th century there were in all of North Africa, with the exception of the main mountain ranges and certain coastal regions remained entirely Berber.\n\nThe region of Algeria was partially ruled by Ottomans for three centuries from 1516 to 1830. In 1516 the Turkish privateer brothers Aruj and Hayreddin Barbarossa, who operated successfully under the Hafsids, moved their base of operations to Algiers. They succeeded in conquering Jijel and Algiers from the Spaniards but eventually assumed control over the city and the surrounding region, forcing the previous ruler, Abu Hamo Musa III of the \"Bani Ziyad\" dynasty, to flee. When Aruj was killed in 1518 during his invasion of Tlemcen, Hayreddin succeeded him as military commander of Algiers. The Ottoman sultan gave him the title of beylerbey and a contingent of some 2,000 janissaries. With the aid of this force, Hayreddin conquered the whole area between Constantine and Oran (although the city of Oran remained in Spanish hands until 1791).\n\nThe next beylerbey was Hayreddin's son Hasan, who assumed the position in 1544. Until 1587 the area was governed by officers who served terms with no fixed limits. Subsequently, with the institution of a regular Ottoman administration, governors with the title of pasha ruled for three-year terms. The pasha was assisted by janissaries, known in Algeria as the ojaq and led by an agha. Discontent among the ojaq rose in the mid-1600s because they were not paid regularly, and they repeatedly revolted against the pasha. As a result, the agha charged the pasha with corruption and incompetence and seized power in 1659.\n\nPlague had repeatedly struck the cities of North Africa. Algiers lost from 30,000 to 50,000 inhabitants to the plague in 1620–21, and suffered high fatalities in 1654–57, 1665, 1691 and 1740–42.\n\nIn 1671, the taifa rebelled, killed the agha, and placed one of its own in power. The new leader received the title of dey. After 1689, the right to select the dey passed to the divan, a council of some sixty nobles. It was at first dominated by the \"ojaq\"; but by the 18th century, it had become the dey's instrument. In 1710, the dey persuaded the sultan to recognise him and his successors as regent, replacing the pasha in that role, although Algiers remained a part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe dey was in effect a constitutional autocrat. The dey was elected for a life term, but in the 159 years (1671–1830) that the system survived, fourteen of the twenty-nine deys were assassinated. Despite usurpation, military coups and occasional mob rule, the day-to-day operation of Ottoman government was remarkably orderly. Although the regency patronised the tribal chieftains, it never had the unanimous allegiance of the countryside, where heavy taxation frequently provoked unrest. Autonomous tribal states were tolerated, and the regency's authority was seldom applied in the Kabylie.\n\nThe Barbary pirates preyed on Christian and other non-Islamic shipping in the western Mediterranean Sea. The pirates often took the passengers and crew on the ships and sold them or used them as slaves. They also did a brisk business in ransoming some of the captives. According to Robert Davis, from the 16th to 19th century, pirates captured 1 million to 1.25 million Europeans as slaves. They often made raids, called Razzias, on European coastal towns to capture Christian slaves to sell at slave markets in North Africa and the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn 1544, Hayreddin captured the island of Ischia, taking 4,000 prisoners, and enslaved some 9,000 inhabitants of Lipari, almost the entire population. In 1551, Turgut Reis enslaved the entire population of the Maltese island of Gozo, between 5,000 and 6,000, sending the captives to Libya. In 1554, pirates sacked Vieste in southern Italy and took an estimated 7,000 captives as slaves.\n\nIn 1558, Barbary corsairs captured the town of Ciutadella (Minorca), destroyed it, slaughtered the inhabitants and took 3,000 survivors as slaves to Istanbul. Barbary pirates often attacked the Balearic Islands, and in response, the residents built many coastal watchtowers and fortified churches. The threat was so severe that residents abandoned the island of Formentera. Between 1609 and 1616, England lost 466 merchant ships to Barbary pirates.\n\nIn July 1627 two pirate ships from Algiers sailed as far as Iceland, raiding and capturing slaves. Two weeks earlier another pirate ship from Salé in Morocco had also raided in Iceland. Some of the slaves brought to Algiers were later ransomed back to Iceland, but some chose to stay in Algeria. In 1629 pirate ships from Algeria raided the Faroe Islands.\n\nBarbary raids in the Mediterranean continued to attack Spanish merchant shipping, and as a result, the Spanish navy bombarded Algiers in 1783 and 1784. In 1792, Spain abandoned Oran, selling it to the Ottoman Empire, and it became the site for a new bey in Algiers, though French influence in the region increased over the 19th century.\n\nIn the 19th century, the pirates forged affiliations with Caribbean powers, paying a \"licence tax\" in exchange for safe harbour of their vessels. One American slave reported that the Algerians had enslaved 130 American seamen in the Mediterranean and Atlantic from 1785 to 1793.\n\nPiracy on American vessels in the Mediterranean resulted in the United States initiating the First (1801–1805) and Second Barbary Wars (1815). Following those wars, Algeria was weaker and Europeans, with an Anglo-Dutch fleet commanded by the British Lord Exmouth, attacked Algiers. After a nine-hour bombardment, they obtained a treaty from the Dey that reaffirmed the conditions imposed by Captain (later Commodore) Stephen Decatur (U.S. Navy) concerning the demands of tributes. In addition, the Dey agreed to end the practice of enslaving Christians.\n\nDespite being removed from Algeria in the 19th century, Spain retained a presence in Morocco. Algeria consistently opposed Spanish fortresses and control in nearby Morocco through the 20th century.\n\nUnder the pretext of a slight to their consul, the French invaded and captured Algiers in 1830. Algerian slave trade and piracy ceased when the French conquered Algiers. The conquest of Algeria by the French took some time and resulted in considerable bloodshed. A combination of violence and disease epidemics caused the indigenous Algerian population to decline by nearly one-third from 1830 to 1872. Historian Ben Kiernan wrote on the French conquest of Algeria: \"By 1875, the French conquest was complete. The war had killed approximately 825,000 indigenous Algerians since 1830.\" French losses from 1831–51 were 3,336 killed in action and 92,329 dead in the hospital. The population of Algeria, which stood at about 2.9 million in 1872, reached nearly 11 million in 1960. French policy was predicated on \"civilising\" the country. During this period, a small but influential French-speaking indigenous elite was formed, made up of Berbers, mostly Kabyles.\nAs a consequence, French government favored the Kabyles. About 80% of Indigenous schools were constructed for Kabyles.\n\nFrom 1848 until independence, France administered the whole Mediterranean region of Algeria as an integral part and \"département\" of the nation. One of France's longest-held overseas territories, Algeria became a destination for hundreds of thousands of European immigrants, who became known as \"colons\" and later, as \"Pied-Noirs.\" Between 1825 and 1847, 50,000 French people emigrated to Algeria. These settlers benefited from the French government's confiscation of communal land from tribal peoples, and the application of modern agricultural techniques that increased the amount of arable land. Many Europeans settled in Oran and Algiers, and by the early 20th century they formed a majority of the population in both cities.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th century; the European share was almost a fifth of the population. The French government aimed at making Algeria an assimilated part of France, and this included substantial educational investments especially after 1900. The indigenous cultural and religious resistance heavily opposed this tendency, but in contrast to the other colonised countries' path in central Asia and Caucasus, Algeria kept its individual skills and a relatively human-capital intensive agriculture.\n\nGradually, dissatisfaction among the Muslim population, which lacked political and economic status in the colonial system, gave rise to demands for greater political autonomy and eventually independence from France. In May 1945, the uprising against the occupying French forces was suppressed through what is now known as the Sétif and Guelma massacre. Tensions between the two population groups came to a head in 1954, when the first violent events of what was later called the Algerian War began. Historians have estimated that between 30,000 and 150,000 Harkis and their dependents were killed by the Front de Libération Nationale (FLN) or by lynch mobs in Algeria. The FLN used hit and run attacks in Algeria and France as part of its war, and the French conducted severe reprisals.\n\nThe war led to the death of hundreds of thousands of Algerians and hundreds of thousands of injuries. Historians, like Alistair Horne and Raymond Aron, state that the actual number of Algerian Muslim war dead was far greater than the original FLN and official French estimates but was less than the 1 million deaths claimed by the Algerian government after independence. Horne estimated Algerian casualties during the span of eight years to be around 700,000. The war uprooted more than 2 million Algerians.\n\nThe war against French rule concluded in 1962, when Algeria gained complete independence following the March 1962 Evian agreements and the July 1962 self-determination referendum.\n\nThe number of European \"Pied-Noirs\" who fled Algeria totaled more than 900,000 between 1962 and 1964. The exodus to mainland France accelerated after the Oran massacre of 1962, in which hundreds of militants entered European sections of the city, and began attacking civilians.\n\nAlgeria's first president was the Front de Libération Nationale (FLN) leader Ahmed Ben Bella. Morocco's claim to portions of western Algeria led to the Sand War in 1963. Ben Bella was overthrown in 1965 by Houari Boumédiène, his former ally and defence minister. Under Ben Bella, the government had become increasingly socialist and authoritarian; Boumédienne continued this trend. But, he relied much more on the army for his support, and reduced the sole legal party to a symbolic role. He collectivised agriculture and launched a massive industrialization drive. Oil extraction facilities were nationalised. This was especially beneficial to the leadership after the international 1973 oil crisis.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s under President Houari Boumediene, Algeria pursued a program of industrialization within a state-controlled socialist economy. Boumediene's successor, Chadli Bendjedid, introduced some liberal economic reforms. He promoted a policy of Arabisation in Algerian society and public life. Teachers of Arabic, brought in from other Muslim countries, spread conventional Islamic thought in schools and sowed the seeds of a return to Orthodox Islam.\n\nThe Algerian economy became increasingly dependent on oil, leading to hardship when the price collapsed during the 1980s oil glut. Economic recession caused by the crash in world oil prices resulted in Algerian social unrest during the 1980s; by the end of the decade, Bendjedid introduced a multi-party system. Political parties developed, such as the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), a broad coalition of Muslim groups.\n\nIn December 1991 the Islamic Salvation Front dominated the first of two rounds of legislative elections. Fearing the election of an Islamist government, the authorities intervened on 11 January 1992, cancelling the elections. Bendjedid resigned and a High Council of State was installed to act as Presidency. It banned the FIS, triggering a civil insurgency between the Front's armed wing, the Armed Islamic Group, and the national armed forces, in which more than 100,000 people are thought to have died. The Islamist militants conducted a violent campaign of civilian massacres. At several points in the conflict, the situation in Algeria became a point of international concern, most notably during the crisis surrounding Air France Flight 8969, a hijacking perpetrated by the Armed Islamic Group. The Armed Islamic Group declared a ceasefire in October 1997.\n\nAlgeria held elections in 1999, considered biased by international observers and most opposition groups which were won by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika. He worked to restore political stability to the country and announced a \"Civil Concord\" initiative, approved in a referendum, under which many political prisoners were pardoned, and several thousand members of armed groups were granted exemption from prosecution under a limited amnesty, in force until 13 January 2000. The AIS disbanded and levels of insurgent violence fell rapidly. The Groupe Salafiste pour la Prédication et le Combat (GSPC), a splinter group of the Group Islamic Army, continued a terrorist campaign against the Government.\n\nBouteflika was re-elected in the April 2004 presidential election after campaigning on a programme of national reconciliation. The programme comprised economic, institutional, political and social reform to modernise the country, raise living standards, and tackle the causes of alienation. It also included a second amnesty initiative, the Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation, which was approved in a referendum in September 2005. It offered amnesty to most guerrillas and Government security forces.\n\nIn November 2008, the Algerian Constitution was amended following a vote in Parliament, removing the two-term limit on Presidential incumbents. This change enabled Bouteflika to stand for re-election in the 2009 presidential elections, and he was re-elected in April 2009. During his election campaign and following his re-election, Bouteflika promised to extend the programme of national reconciliation and a $150-billion spending programme to create three million new jobs, the construction of one million new housing units, and to continue public sector and infrastructure modernisation programmes.\n\nA continuing series of protests throughout the country started on 28 December 2010, inspired by similar protests across the Middle East and North Africa. On 24 February 2011, the government lifted Algeria's 19-year-old state of emergency. The government enacted legislation dealing with political parties, the electoral code, and the representation of women in elected bodies. In April 2011, Bouteflika promised further constitutional and political reform. However, elections are routinely criticized by opposition groups as unfair and international human rights groups say that media censorship and harassment of political opponents continue.\n\nAlgeria is the largest country in Africa, and the Mediterranean Basin. Its southern part includes a significant portion of the Sahara. To the north, the Tell Atlas form with the Saharan Atlas, further south, two parallel sets of reliefs in approaching eastbound, and between which are inserted vast plains and highlands. Both Atlas tend to merge in eastern Algeria. The vast mountain ranges of Aures and Nememcha occupy the entire northeastern Algeria and are delineated by the Tunisian border. The highest point is Mount Tahat ( m).\n\nAlgeria lies mostly between latitudes 19° and 37°N (a small area is north of 37°N and south of 19°N), and longitudes 9°W and 12°E. Most of the coastal area is hilly, sometimes even mountainous, and there are a few natural harbours. The area from the coast to the Tell Atlas is fertile. South of the Tell Atlas is a steppe landscape ending with the Saharan Atlas; farther south, there is the Sahara desert.\n\nThe Hoggar Mountains (), also known as the Hoggar, are a highland region in central Sahara, southern Algeria. They are located about south of the capital, Algiers, and just east of Tamanghasset. Algiers, Oran, Constantine, and Annaba are Algeria's main cities.\n\nIn this region, midday desert temperatures can be hot year round. After sunset, however, the clear, dry air permits rapid loss of heat, and the nights are cool to chilly. Enormous daily ranges in temperature are recorded.\n\nRainfall is fairly plentiful along the coastal part of the Tell Atlas, ranging from annually, the amount of precipitation increasing from west to east. Precipitation is heaviest in the northern part of eastern Algeria, where it reaches as much as in some years.\n\nFarther inland, the rainfall is less plentiful. Algeria also has ergs, or sand dunes, between mountains. Among these, in the summer time when winds are heavy and gusty, temperatures can get up to .\n\nThe varied vegetation of Algeria includes coastal, mountainous and grassy desert-like regions which all support a wide range of wildlife. Many of the creatures comprising the Algerian wildlife live in close proximity to civilization. The most commonly seen animals include the wild boars, jackals, and gazelles, although it is not uncommon to spot fennecs (foxes), and jerboas. Algeria also has a small African leopard and Saharan cheetah population, but these are seldom seen. A species of deer, the Barbary stag, inhabits the dense humid forests in the north-eastern areas.\n\nA variety of bird species makes the country an attraction for bird watchers. The forests are inhabited by boars and jackals. Barbary macaques are the sole native monkey. Snakes, monitor lizards, and numerous other reptiles can be found living among an array of rodents throughout the semi arid regions of Algeria. Many animals are now extinct, including the Barbary lions, Atlas bears and crocodiles.\n\nIn the north, some of the native flora includes Macchia scrub, olive trees, oaks, cedars and other conifers. The mountain regions contain large forests of evergreens (Aleppo pine, juniper, and evergreen oak) and some deciduous trees. Fig, eucalyptus, agave, and various palm trees grow in the warmer areas. The grape vine is indigenous to the coast. In the Sahara region, some oases have palm trees. Acacias with wild olives are the predominant flora in the remainder of the Sahara.\n\nCamels are used extensively; the desert also abounds with venomous and nonvenomous snakes, scorpions, and numerous insects.\n\nElected politicians are considered to have relatively little sway over Algeria. Instead, a group of unelected civilian and military \"décideurs\", known as \"le pouvoir\" (\"the power\"), actually rule the country, even deciding who should be president. The most powerful man may be Mohamed Mediène, head of the military intelligence. In recent years, many of these generals have died or retired. After the death of General Larbi Belkheir, Bouteflika put loyalists in key posts, notably at Sonatrach, and secured constitutional amendments that make him re-electable indefinitely.\n\nThe head of state is the president of Algeria, who is elected for a five-year term. The president was formerly limited to two five-year terms, but a constitutional amendment passed by the Parliament on 11 November 2008 removed this limitation. Algeria has universal suffrage at 18 years of age. The President is the head of the army, the Council of Ministers and the High Security Council. He appoints the Prime Minister who is also the head of government.\n\nThe Algerian parliament is bicameral; the lower house, the People's National Assembly, has 462 members who are directly elected for five-year terms, while the upper house, the Council of the Nation, has 144 members serving six-year terms, of which 96 members are chosen by local assemblies and 48 are appointed by the president. According to the constitution, no political association may be formed if it is \"based on differences in religion, language, race, gender, profession, or region\". In addition, political campaigns must be exempt from the aforementioned subjects.\n\nParliamentary elections were last held in May 2012, and were judged to be largely free by international monitors, though local groups alleged fraud and irregularities. In the elections, the FLN won 221 seats, the military-backed National Rally for Democracy won 70, and the Islamist Green Algeria Alliance won 47.\n\nAlgeria is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer.\nGiving incentives and rewarding best performers, as well as offering funds in a faster and more flexible manner, are the two main principles underlying the European Neighbourhood Instrument (ENI) that came into force in 2014. It has a budget of €15.4 billion and provides the bulk of funding through a number of programmes.\n\nIn 2009, the French government agreed to compensate victims of nuclear tests in Algeria. Defense Minister Herve Morin stated that \"It's time for our country to be at peace with itself, at peace thanks to a system of compensation and reparations,\" when presenting the draft law on the payouts. Algerian officials and activists believe that this is a good first step and hope that this move would encourage broader reparation.\n\nTensions between Algeria and Morocco in relation to the Western Sahara have been an obstacle to tightening the Arab Maghreb Union, nominally established in 1989, but which has carried little practical weight.\n\nThe military of Algeria consists of the People's National Army (ANP), the Algerian National Navy (MRA), and the Algerian Air Force (QJJ), plus the Territorial Air Defence Forces. It is the direct successor of the National Liberation Army (Armée de Libération Nationale or ALN), the armed wing of the nationalist National Liberation Front which fought French colonial occupation during the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62).\n\nTotal military personnel include 147,000 active, 150,000 reserve, and 187,000 paramilitary staff (2008 estimate). Service in the military is compulsory for men aged 19–30, for a total of 12 months. The military expenditure was 4.3% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2012. Algeria has the second largest military in North Africa with the largest defence budget in Africa ($10 billion).\n\nIn 2007, the Algerian Air Force signed a deal with Russia to purchase 49 MiG-29SMT and 6 MiG-29UBT at an estimated cost of $1.9 billion. Russia is also building two 636-type diesel submarines for Algeria.\n\nAlgeria has been categorized by Freedom House as \"not free\" since it began publishing such ratings in 1972, with the exception of 1989, 1990, and 1991, when the country was labeled \"partly free.\" In December 2016, the \"Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor\" issued a report regarding violation of media freedom in Algeria. It clarified that the Algerian government imposed restriction on freedom of the press; expression; and right to peaceful demonstration, protest and assembly as well as intensified censorship of the media and websites. Due to the fact that the journalists and activists criticize the ruling government, some media organizations' licenses are canceled.\n\nIndependent and autonomous trade unions face routine harassment from the government, with many leaders imprisoned and protests suppressed. In 2016 a number of unions, many of which were involved in the 2010–2012 Algerian Protests, have been deregistered by the government.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal in Algeria. Public homosexual behavior is punishable by up to two years in prison.\n\nAlgeria is divided into 48 provinces (\"wilayas\"), 553 districts (\"daïras\") and 1,541 municipalities (\"baladiyahs\"). Each province, district, and municipality is named after its seat, which is usually the largest city.\n\nThe administrative divisions have changed several times since independence. When introducing new provinces, the numbers of old provinces are kept, hence the non-alphabetical order. With their official numbers, currently (since 1983) they are\n\nAlgeria is classified as an upper middle income country by the World Bank. Algeria's currency is the dinar (DZD). The economy remains dominated by the state, a legacy of the country's socialist post-independence development model. In recent years, the Algerian government has halted the privatization of state-owned industries and imposed restrictions on imports and foreign involvement in its economy. These restrictions are just started to be lifted off recently although questions about Algeria's slow diversifying economy remains.\n\nAlgeria has struggled to develop industries outside hydrocarbons in part because of high costs and an inert state bureaucracy. The government's efforts to diversify the economy by attracting foreign and domestic investment outside the energy sector have done little to reduce high youth unemployment rates or to address housing shortages. The country is facing a number of short-term and medium-term problems, including the need to diversify the economy, strengthen political, economic and financial reforms, improve the business climate and reduce inequalities amongst regions.\n\nA wave of economic protests in February and March 2011 prompted the Algerian government to offer more than $23 billion in public grants and retroactive salary and benefit increases. Public spending has increased by 27% annually during the past 5 years. The 2010–14 public-investment programme will cost US$286 billion, 40% of which will go to human development.\n\nThe Algerian economy grew by 2.6% in 2011, driven by public spending, in particular in the construction and public-works sector, and by growing internal demand. If hydrocarbons are excluded, growth has been estimated at 4.8%. Growth of 3% is expected in 2012, rising to 4.2% in 2013. The rate of inflation was 4% and the budget deficit 3% of GDP. The current-account surplus is estimated at 9.3% of GDP and at the end of December 2011, official reserves were put at US$182 billion. Inflation, the lowest in the region, has remained stable at 4% on average between 2003 and 2007.\n\nIn 2011 Algeria announced a budgetary surplus of $26.9 billion, 62% increase in comparison to 2010 surplus. In general, the country exported $73 billion worth of commodities while it imported $46 billion.\n\nThanks to strong hydrocarbon revenues, Algeria has a cushion of $173 billion in foreign currency reserves and a large hydrocarbon stabilization fund. In addition, Algeria's external debt is extremely low at about 2% of GDP. The economy remains very dependent on hydrocarbon wealth, and, despite high foreign exchange reserves (US$178 billion, equivalent to three years of imports), current expenditure growth makes Algeria's budget more vulnerable to the risk of prolonged lower hydrocarbon revenues.\n\nIn 2011, the agricultural sector and services recorded growth of 10% and 5.3%, respectively. About 14% of the labor force are employed in the agricultural sector. Fiscal policy in 2011 remained expansionist and made it possible to maintain the pace of public investment and to contain the strong demand for jobs and housing.\n\nAlgeria has not joined the WTO, despite several years of negotiations.\n\nIn March 2006, Russia agreed to erase $4.74 billion of Algeria's Soviet-era debt during a visit by Russian President Vladimir Putin to the country, the first by a Russian leader in half a century. In return, Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika agreed to buy $7.5 billion worth of combat planes, air-defence systems and other arms from Russia, according to the head of Russia's state arms exporter Rosoboronexport.\n\nDubai-based conglomerate Emarat Dzayer Group said it had signed a joint venture agreement to develop a $1.6 billion steel factory in Algeria.\n\nAlgeria, whose economy is reliant on petroleum, has been an OPEC member since 1969. Its crude oil production stands at around 1.1 million barrels/day, but it is also a major gas producer and exporter, with important links to Europe. Hydrocarbons have long been the backbone of the economy, accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and over 95% of export earnings. Algeria has the 10th-largest reserves of natural gas in the world and is the sixth-largest gas exporter. The U.S. Energy Information Administration reported that in 2005, Algeria had of proven natural-gas reserves. It also ranks 16th in oil reserves.\n\nNon-hydrocarbon growth for 2011 was projected at 5%. To cope with social demands, the authorities raised expenditure, especially on basic food support, employment creation, support for SMEs, and higher salaries. High hydrocarbon prices have improved the current account and the already large international reserves position.\n\nIncome from oil and gas rose in 2011 as a result of continuing high oil prices, though the trend in production volume is downwards. Production from the oil and gas sector in terms of volume, continues to decline, dropping from 43.2 million tonnes to 32 million tonnes between 2007 and 2011. Nevertheless, the sector accounted for 98% of the total volume of exports in 2011, against 48% in 1962, and 70% of budgetary receipts, or USD 71.4 billion.\n\nThe Algerian national oil company is Sonatrach, which plays a key role in all aspects of the oil and natural gas sectors in Algeria. All foreign operators must work in partnership with Sonatrach, which usually has majority ownership in production-sharing agreements.\n\nAlgeria has invested an estimated 100 billion dinars towards developing research facilities and paying researchers. This development program is meant to advance alternative energy production, especially solar and wind power. Algeria is estimated to have the largest solar energy potential in the Mediterranean, so the government has funded the creation of a solar science park in Hassi R'Mel. Currently, Algeria has 20,000 research professors at various universities and over 780 research labs, with state-set goals to expand to 1,000. Besides solar energy, areas of research in Algeria include space and satellite telecommunications, nuclear power and medical research.\n\nDespite a decline in total unemployment, youth and women unemployment is high. Unemployment particularly affects the young, with a jobless rate of 21.5% among the 15–24 age group.\n\nThe overall rate of unemployment was 10% in 2011, but remained higher among young people, with a rate of 21.5% for those aged between 15 and 24. The government strengthened in 2011 the job programmes introduced in 1988, in particular in the framework of the programme to aid those seeking work (Dispositif d'Aide à l'Insertion Professionnelle).\n\nThe development of the tourism sector in Algeria had previously been hampered by a lack of facilities, but since 2004 a broad tourism development strategy has been implemented resulting in many hotels of a high modern standard being built.\n\nThere are several UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Algeria including Al Qal'a of Beni Hammad, the first capital of the Hammadid empire; Tipasa, a Phoenician and later Roman town; and Djémila and Timgad, both Roman ruins; M'Zab Valley, a limestone valley containing a large urbanized oasis; and the Casbah of Algiers, an important citadel. The only natural World Heritage Site is the Tassili n'Ajjer, a mountain range.\n\nThe Algerian road network is the densest in Africa; its length is estimated at 180,000 km of highways, with more than 3,756 structures and a paving rate of 85%. This network will be complemented by the East-West Highway, a major infrastructure project currently under construction. It is a 3-way, highway, linking Annaba in the extreme east to the Tlemcen in the far west. Algeria is also crossed by the Trans-Sahara Highway, which is now completely paved. This road is supported by the Algerian government to increase trade between the six countries crossed: Algeria, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Chad and Tunisia.\n\nIn January 2016 Algeria's population was an estimated 40.4 million, who are mainly Arab-Berber ethnically. At the outset of the 20th century, its population was approximately four million. About 90% of Algerians live in the northern, coastal area; the inhabitants of the Sahara desert are mainly concentrated in oases, although some 1.5 million remain nomadic or partly nomadic. 28.1% of Algerians are under the age of 15.\n\nWomen make up 70% of the country's lawyers and 60% of its judges and also dominate the field of medicine. Increasingly, women are contributing more to household income than men. 60% of university students are women, according to university researchers.\n\nBetween 90,000 and 165,000 Sahrawis from Western Sahara live in the Sahrawi refugee camps, in the western Algerian Sahara desert. There are also more than 4,000 Palestinian refugees, who are well integrated and have not asked for assistance from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). In 2009, 35,000 Chinese migrant workers lived in Algeria.\n\nThe largest concentration of Algerian migrants outside Algeria is in France, which has reportedly over 1.7 million Algerians of up to the second generation.\n\nIndigenous Berbers as well as Phoenicians, Romans, Byzantines, Arabs, Turks, various Sub-Saharan Africans, and French have contributed to the history of Algeria. Descendants of Andalusian refugees are also present in the population of Algiers and other cities. Moreover, Spanish was spoken by these Aragonese and Castillian Morisco descendants deep into the 18th century, and even Catalan was spoken at the same time by Catalan Morisco descendants in the small town of Grish El-Oued.\n\nDespite the dominance of the Berber culture and ethnicity in Algeria, the majority of Algerians identify with an Arabic-based identity, especially after the Arab nationalism rising in the 20th century. Berbers and Berber-speaking Algerians are divided into many groups with varying languages. The largest of these are the Kabyles, who live in the Kabylie region east of Algiers, the Chaoui of Northeast Algeria, the Tuaregs in the southern desert and the Shenwa people of North Algeria.\n\nDuring the colonial period, there was a large (10% in 1960) European population who became known as \"Pied-Noirs\". They were primarily of French, Spanish and Italian origin. Almost all of this population left during the war of independence or immediately after its end.\n\nBerber and Modern Standard Arabic are the official languages. Algerian Arabic (Darja) is the language used by the majority of the population. Colloquial Algerian Arabic is heavily infused with borrowings from French and Berber.\n\nBerber has been recognized as a \"national language\" by the constitutional amendment of 8 May 2002. Kabyle, the predominant Berber language, is taught and is partially co-official (with a few restrictions) in parts of Kabylie. In February 2016, the Algerian constitution passed a resolution that would make Berber an official language alongside Arabic.\n\nAlthough French has no official status, Algeria is the second-largest Francophone country in the world in terms of speakers, and French is widely used in government, media (newspapers, radio, local television), and both the education system (from primary school onwards) and academia due to Algeria's colonial history. It can be regarded as a lingua franca of Algeria. In 2008, 11.2 million Algerians could read and write in French. An Abassa Institute study in April 2000 found that 60% of households could speak and understand French or 18 million in a population of 30 million then. After an earlier period during which the Algerian government tried to phase out French (which is why it has no official status), in recent decades the government has backtracked and reinforced the study of French and TV programs have reinforced use of the language.\n\nAlgeria emerged as a bilingual state after 1962. Colloquial Algerian Arabic is spoken by about 72% of the population and Berber by 27–30%.\n\nIslam is the predominant religion in Algeria, with its adherents, mostly Sunnis, accounting for 99% of the population according to a 2012 CIA World Factbook estimate, and 97.9% according to Pew Research in 2010. There are about 150,000 Ibadis in the M'zab Valley in the region of Ghardaia.\n\nAlgeria has given the Muslim world a number of prominent thinkers, including Emir Abdelkader, Abdelhamid Ben Badis, Mouloud Kacem Naît Belkacem, Malek Bennabi and Mohamed Arkoun.\n\nBelow is a list of the most important Algerian cities:\n\nModern Algerian literature, split between Arabic, Tamazight and French, has been strongly influenced by the country's recent history. Famous novelists of the 20th century include Mohammed Dib, Albert Camus, Kateb Yacine and Ahlam Mosteghanemi while Assia Djebar is widely translated. Among the important novelists of the 1980s were Rachid Mimouni, later vice-president of Amnesty International, and Tahar Djaout, murdered by an Islamist group in 1993 for his secularist views.\n\nMalek Bennabi and Frantz Fanon are noted for their thoughts on decolonization; Augustine of Hippo was born in Tagaste (modern-day Souk Ahras); and Ibn Khaldun, though born in Tunis, wrote the Muqaddima while staying in Algeria. The works of the Sanusi family in pre-colonial times, and of Emir Abdelkader and Sheikh Ben Badis in colonial times, are widely noted. The Latin author Apuleius was born in Madaurus (Mdaourouch), in what later became Algeria.\n\nContemporary Algerian cinema is various in terms of genre, exploring a wider range of themes and issues. There has been a transition from cinema which focused on the war of independence to films more concerned with the everyday lives of Algerians.\n\nAlgerian painters, like or Baya, attempted to revive the prestigious Algerian past prior to French colonization, at the same time that they have contributed to the preservation of the authentic values of Algeria. In this line, Mohamed Temam, Abdelkhader Houamel have also returned through this art, scenes from the history of the country, the habits and customs of the past and the country life. Other new artistic currents including the one of M'hamed Issiakhem, Mohammed Khadda and Bachir Yelles, appeared on the scene of Algerian painting, abandoning figurative classical painting to find new pictorial ways, in order to adapt Algerian paintings to the new realities of the country through its struggle and its aspirations. Mohammed Khadda and M'hamed Issiakhem have been notable in recent years.\n\nThe historic roots of Algerian literature go back to the Numidian and Roman African era, when Apuleius wrote \"The Golden Ass\", the only Latin novel to survive in its entirety. This period had also known Augustine of Hippo, Nonius Marcellus and Martianus Capella, among many others. The Middle Ages have known many Arabic writers who revolutionized the Arab world literature, with authors like Ahmad al-Buni, Ibn Manzur and Ibn Khaldoun, who wrote the Muqaddimah while staying in Algeria, and many others.\n\nAlbert Camus was an Algerian-born French Pied-Noir author. In 1957 he was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature.\n\nToday Algeria contains, in its literary landscape, big names having not only marked the Algerian literature, but also the universal literary heritage in Arabic and French.\n\nAs a first step, Algerian literature was marked by works whose main concern was the assertion of the Algerian national entity, there is the publication of novels as the \"Algerian trilogy\" of Mohammed Dib, or even \"Nedjma\" of Kateb Yacine novel which is often regarded as a monumental and major work. Other known writers will contribute to the emergence of Algerian literature whom include Mouloud Feraoun, Malek Bennabi, Malek Haddad, Moufdi Zakaria, Abdelhamid Ben Badis, Mohamed Laïd Al-Khalifa, Mouloud Mammeri, Frantz Fanon, and Assia Djebar.\n\nIn the aftermath of the independence, several new authors emerged on the Algerian literary scene, they will attempt through their works to expose a number of social problems, among them there are Rachid Boudjedra, Rachid Mimouni, Leila Sebbar, Tahar Djaout and Tahir Wattar.\n\nCurrently, a part of Algerian writers tends to be defined in a literature of shocking expression, due to the terrorism that occurred during the 1990s, the other party is defined in a different style of literature who staged an individualistic conception of the human adventure. Among the most noted recent works, there is the writer, \"the swallows of Kabul\" and \"the attack\" of Yasmina Khadra, \"the oath of barbarians\" of Boualem Sansal, \"memory of the flesh\" of Ahlam Mosteghanemi and the last novel by Assia Djebar \"nowhere in my father's House\".\n\nChaâbi music is a typically Algerian musical genre characterized by specific rhythms and of Qacidate (Popular poems) in Arabic dialect. The undisputed master of this music is El Hadj M'Hamed El Anka. The Constantinois Malouf style is saved by musician from whom Mohamed Tahar Fergani is a performer.\n\nFolk music styles include Bedouin music, characterized by the poetic songs based on long kacida (poems); Kabyle music, based on a rich repertoire that is poetry and old tales passed through generations; Shawiya music, a folklore from diverse areas of the Aurès Mountains. Rahaba music style is unique to the Aures. Souad Massi is a rising Algerian folk singer. Other Algerian singers of the diaspora include Manel Filali in Germany and Kenza Farah in France. Tergui music is sung in Tuareg languages generally, Tinariwen had a worldwide success. Finally, the staïfi music is born in Sétif and remains a unique style of its kind.\n\nModern music is available in several facets, Raï music is a style typical of Western Algeria. Rap, relatively recent style in Algeria, is experiencing significant growth.\n\nThe Algerian state's interest in film-industry activities can be seen in the annual budget of DZD 200 million (EUR 1.8) allocated to production, specific measures and an ambitious programme plan implemented by the Ministry of Culture in order to promote national production, renovate the cinema stock and remedy the weak links in distribution and exploitation.\n\nThe financial support provided by the state, through the Fund for the Development of the Arts, Techniques and the Film Industry (FDATIC) and the Algerian Agency for Cultural Influence (AARC), plays a key role in the promotion of national production. Between 2007 and 2013, FDATIC subsidised 98 films (feature films, documentaries and short films). In mid-2013, AARC had already supported a total of 78 films, including 42 feature films, 6 short films and 30 documentaries.\n\nAccording to the European Audiovisual Observatory's LUMIERE database, 41 Algerian films were distributed in Europe between 1996 and 2013; 21 films in this repertoire were Algerian-French co-productions. \"Days of Glory\" (2006) and \"Outside the Law\" (2010) recorded the highest number of admissions in the European Union, 3,172,612 and 474,722, respectively.\n\nAlgeria won the Palme d'Or for \"Chronicle of the Years of Fire\" (1975), two Oscars for \"Z\" (1969), and other awards for \"The Battle of Algiers\".\n\nVarious games have existed in Algeria since antiquity. In the Aures, people played several games such as El Kherba or El khergueba (chess variant). Playing cards, checkers and chess games are part of Algerian culture. Racing (fantasia) and rifle shooting are part of cultural recreation of the Algerians.\n\nThe first Algerian and African gold medalist is Boughera El Ouafi in 1928 Olympics of Amsterdam in the Marathon. The second Algerian Medalist was Alain Mimoun in 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. Several men and women were champions in athletics in the 1990s including Noureddine Morceli, Hassiba Boulmerka, Nouria Merah-Benida, and Taoufik Makhloufi, all specialized in middle-distance running.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Algeria. Several names are engraved in the history of the sport, including Lakhdar Belloumi, Rachid Mekhloufi, Hassen Lalmas, Rabah Madjer, Salah Assad and Djamel Zidane. The Algeria national football team qualified for the 1982 FIFA World Cup, 1986 FIFA World Cup, 2010 FIFA World Cup and 2014 FIFA World Cup. In addition, several football clubs have won continental and international trophies as the club ES Sétif or JS Kabylia. The Algerian Football Federation is an association of Algeria football clubs organizing national competitions and international matches of the selection of Algeria national football team.\n\nAlgerian cuisine is rich and diverse. The country was considered as the \"granary of Rome\". It offers a component of dishes and varied dishes, depending on the region and according to the seasons. The cuisine uses cereals as the main products, since they are always produced with abundance in the country. There is not a dish where cereals are not present.\n\nAlgerian cuisine varies from one region to another, according to seasonal vegetables. It can be prepared using meat, fish and vegetables. Among the dishes known, couscous, chorba, Couscous, Rechta, Chakhchoukha, Berkoukes, Shakshouka, Mthewem, Chtitha, Mderbel, Dolma, Brik or Bourek, Garantita, Lham'hlou, etc. Merguez sausage is widely used in Algeria, but it differs, depending on the region and on the added spices.\n\nCakes are marketed and can be found in cities either in Algeria, in Europe or North America. However, traditional cakes are also made at home, following the habits and customs of each family. Among these cakes, there are Tamina, Baklawa, Chrik, Garn logzelles, Griouech, Kalb el-louz, Makroud, Mbardja, Mchewek, Samsa, Tcharak, Baghrir, Khfaf, Zlabia, Aarayech, Ghroubiya and Mghergchette. Algerian pastry also contains Tunisian or French cakes. Marketed and home-made bread products include varieties such as Kessra or Khmira or Harchaya, chopsticks and so-called washers Khoubz dar or Matloue.\nOther traditional meals sold often as street food include Mhadjeb, Karantika, Doubara.(Chakhchokha-Hassoua-T'chicha-Mahjouba and Doubara)are famous in Biskra.\n\nIn 2002, Algeria had inadequate numbers of physicians (1.13 per 1,000 people), nurses (2.23 per 1,000 people), and dentists (0.31 per 1,000 people). Access to \"improved water sources\" was limited to 92% of the population in urban areas and 80% of the population in the rural areas. Some 99% of Algerians living in urban areas, but only 82% of those living in rural areas, had access to \"improved sanitation\". According to the World Bank, Algeria is making progress toward its goal of \"reducing by half the number of people without sustainable access to improved drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015\". Given Algeria's young population, policy favors preventive health care and clinics over hospitals. In keeping with this policy, the government maintains an immunization program. However, poor sanitation and unclean water still cause tuberculosis, hepatitis, measles, typhoid fever, cholera and dysentery. The poor generally receive health care free of charge.\n\nHealth records have been maintained in Algeria since 1882 and began adding Muslims living in the South to their Vital record database in 1905 during French rule.\n\nSince the 1970s, in a centralized system that was designed to significantly reduce the rate of illiteracy, the Algerian government introduced a decree by which school attendance became compulsory for all children aged between 6 and 15 years who have the ability to track their learning through the 20 facilities built since independence, now the literacy rate is around 78.7%.\n\nSince 1972, Arabic is used as the language of instruction during the first nine years of schooling. From the third year, French is taught and it is also the language of instruction for science classes. The students can also learn English, Italian, Spanish and German. In 2008, new programs at the elementary appeared, therefore the compulsory schooling does not start at the age of six anymore, but at the age of five.\nApart from the 122 private schools, the Universities of the State are free of charge. After nine years of primary school, students can go to the high school or to an educational institution. The school offers two programs: general or technical. At the end of the third year of secondary school, students pass the exam of the baccalaureate, which allows once it is successful to pursue graduate studies in universities and institutes.\n\nEducation is officially compulsory for children between the ages of six and 15. In 2008, the illiteracy rate for people over 10 was 22.3%, 15.6% for men and 29.0% for women. The province with the lowest rate of illiteracy was Algiers Province at 11.6%, while the province with the highest rate was Djelfa Province at 35.5%.\n\nAlgeria has 26 universities and 67 institutions of higher education, which must accommodate a million Algerians and 80,000 foreign students in 2008. The University of Algiers, founded in 1879, is the oldest, it offers education in various disciplines (law, medicine, science and letters). 25 of these universities and almost all of the institutions of higher education were founded after the independence of the country.\n\nEven if some of them offer instruction in Arabic like areas of law and the economy, most of the other sectors as science and medicine continue to be provided in French and English. Among the most important universities, there are the University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene, the University of Mentouri Constantine, and University of Oran Es-Senia. The University of Abou Bekr Belkaïd in Tlemcen and University of Batna Hadj Lakhdar occupy the 26th and 45th row in Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "662856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662856", "title": "Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party", "text": "Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party\n\nAotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party (ALCP; also known as the Cannabis Party) is a political party in New Zealand. It is dedicated to removing or reducing restrictions on the use of cannabis and similar substances.\n\nUnder New Zealand's Misuse of Drugs Act 1975, cannabis is currently classed (depending on product / substance) as either a Class B drug (\"Very high risk of harm\") or a Class C drug (\"moderate risk of harm\").\n\nThe Aotearoa Legalise Cannabis Party was founded in 1996, Dunedin. Michael Appleby led the party from 1996 until standing down in 2013. Jeff Lye is the current leader of the ALCP after being elected to replace previous leader Alistair Gregory at the party's 2017 general meeting. It has contested every general election since its founding as well as six by-elections and intends to contest the 2017 election. The party has never won representation in Parliament.\n\nThe Cannabis Party's policies all relate to cannabis, hemp, or drug education. These include legalising possession, growing and use of cannabis for those over 18, creating a 'medpot' card, taxing companies involved in the cannabis industry, removing the need for a licence to grow hemp, and funding drug education and research.\n\nIn 2008, the party invited Dunedin South MP David Benson-Pope to join the Cannabis Party, but he declined, saying, \"Their judgement has obviously been impaired by their recreational habits\".\n\nTwo Cannabis Party candidates went on to become Members of Parliament for the Green Party. Nándor Tánczos and Metiria Turei were both ALCP candidates in 1996; Tánczos became a Green MP in 1999 and Turei became a Green MP in 2002. Another candidate in 1996, Tim Shadbolt, became the mayor of Invercargill from 1998 and still holds the role. Shadbolt had previously been mayor of Invercargill from 1993 to 1995, and mayor of Waitemata from 1983 to 1989.\n\nThe Cannabis Party's best general election result was in first election in 1996 where it won 1.66% of the party vote. It won 1.10% of the party vote in 1999, but since then has not received more than 1% of the party vote in any election. The Cannabis Party has nominated candidates for electorate seats in each election. No ALCP candidate has ever won a seat. In the last ten years (the 2008-2014 general elections), the most successful ALCP candidate was Emma-Jane Mihaere Kingi, who won 1,005 votes in the Te Tai Tonga electorate (5% of electorate votes cast).\n\nThe Cannabis Party mounted an aggressive campaign for the 2008 general election, with several high profile candidates including Steven Wilkinson (West Coast-Tasman) and Julian Crawford (Dunedin North). In the 2011 New Zealand general election, there was a minor resurgence in the ALCP voter share, which rose to 0.52% (11,738 votes in all), making them the 10th most popular party. In the 2014 New Zealand general election, the ALCP's voter share was 10,961 votes, or 0.46% of votes cast. In the 2017 election, the party ran six electoral candidates and eight list candidates. During the 2017 election, the Cannabis Party gained on 0.1% of the party vote (8,075) and failed to win any seats in the New Zealand House of Representatives.\n\nThe Cannabis Party has also contested all by-elections held since its founding. Its most successful result was in the 2004 Te Tai Hauauru by-election. Only the Māori Party, the ALCP, and independents contested this by-election. The ALCP candidate, Dun Mihaka, finished second behind Māori Party leader Tariana Turia, receiving 197 votes (2.52%) to Turia's 7,256 (92.74%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "956499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956499", "title": "Application firewall", "text": "Application firewall\n\nAn application firewall is a form of firewall that controls input, output, and/or access from, to, or by an application or service. It operates by monitoring and potentially blocking the input, output, or system service calls that do not meet the configured policy of the firewall. The application firewall is typically built to control all network traffic on any OSI layer up to the . It is able to control applications or services specifically, unlike a stateful network firewall, which is - without additional software - unable to control network traffic regarding a specific application. There are two primary categories of application firewalls, \"network-based application firewalls\" and \"host-based application firewalls\".\n\nA network-based application layer firewall is a computer networking firewall operating at the application layer of a protocol stack, and is also known as a proxy-based or reverse-proxy firewall. Application firewalls specific to a particular kind of network traffic may be titled with the service name, such as a web application firewall. They may be implemented through software running on a host or a stand-alone piece of network hardware. Often, it is a host using various forms of proxy servers to proxy traffic before passing it on to the client or server. Because it acts on the application layer, it may inspect the contents of traffic, blocking specified content, such as certain websites, viruses, or attempts to exploit known logical flaws in client software.\n\nModern application firewalls may also offload encryption from servers, block application input/output from detected intrusions or malformed communication, manage or consolidate authentication, or block content that violates policies.\n\nGene Spafford of Purdue University, Bill Cheswick at AT&T Laboratories, and Marcus Ranum described a third generation firewall known as an application layer firewall. Marcus Ranum's work, based on the firewall created by Paul Vixie, Brian Reed and Jeff Mogul, spearheaded the creation of the first commercial product. The product was released by DEC, named the DEC SEAL by Geoff Mulligan - Secure External Access Link. DEC’s first major sale was on June 13, 1991 to a chemical company based on the East Coast of the USA.\n\nUnder a broader DARPA contract at TIS, Marcus Ranum, Wei Xu, and Peter Churchyard developed the Firewall Toolkit (FWTK), and made it freely available under license on October 1, 1993. The purposes for releasing the freely available, not for commercial use, FWTK were: to demonstrate, via the software, documentation, and methods used, how a company with (at the time) 11 years' experience in formal security methods, and individuals with firewall experience, developed firewall software; to create a common base of very good firewall software for others to build on (so people did not have to continue to \"roll their own\" from scratch); and to \"raise the bar\" of firewall software being used. However, FWTK was a basic application proxy requiring the user interactions.\n\nIn 1994, Wei Xu extended the FWTK with the Kernel enhancement of IP stateful filter and socket transparent. This was the first transparent firewall, known as the inception of , beyond a traditional application proxy (), released as the commercial product known as Gauntlet firewall. Gauntlet firewall was rated one of the top application firewalls from 1995 until 1998, the year it was acquired by Network Associates Inc, (NAI). Network Associates continued to claim that Gauntlet was the \"worlds most secure firewall\" but in May of 2000, security researcher Jim Stickley discovered a large vulnerability in the firewall, allowing remote access to the operating system and bypassing the security controls. Stickley discovered a second vulnerability a year later, effectively ending Gauntlet firewalls security dominance. \n\nThe key benefit of application layer filtering is that it can \"understand\" certain applications and protocols (such as File Transfer Protocol, DNS, or web browsing), and it can detect whether an unwanted protocol is being sneaked through on a non-standard port or whether a protocol is being abused in any harmful way.\n\nA host-based application firewall can monitor any application input, output, and/or system service calls made from, to, or by an application. This is done by examining information passed through system calls instead of or in addition to a network stack. A host-based application firewall can only provide protection to the applications running on the same host.\n\nApplication firewalls function by determining whether a process should accept any given connection. Application firewalls accomplish their function by hooking into socket calls to filter the connections between the application layer and the lower layers of the OSI model. Application firewalls that hook into socket calls are also referred to as socket filters. Application firewalls work much like a packet filter but application filters apply filtering rules (allow/block) on a per process basis instead of filtering connections on a per port basis. Generally, prompts are used to define rules for processes that have not yet received a connection. It is rare to find application firewalls not combined or used in conjunction with a packet filter.\n\nAlso, application firewalls further filter connections by examining the process ID of data packets against a ruleset for the local process involved in the data transmission. The extent of the filtering that occurs is defined by the provided ruleset. Given the variety of software that exists, application firewalls only have more complex rulesets for the standard services, such as sharing services. These per process rulesets have limited efficacy in filtering every possible association that may occur with other processes. Also, these per process ruleset cannot defend against modification of the process via exploitation, such as memory corruption exploits. Because of these limitations, application firewalls are beginning to be supplanted by a new generation of application firewalls that rely on mandatory access control (MAC), also referred to as sandboxing, to protect vulnerable services. Examples of next generation host-based application firewalls that control system service calls by an application are AppArmor and the TrustedBSD MAC framework (sandboxing) in Mac OS X.\n\nHost-based application firewalls may also provide network-based application firewalling.\n\nSandboxing systems can also control file and process accesses as well as network access. Commercial sandboxing systems are available for both Windows and Unix type OSes.\n\nThere are various application firewalls available, including both free and open source software and commercial products.\n\nMac OS X, as of Leopard, includes an implementation of the TrustedBSD MAC framework, which is taken from FreeBSD. The TrustedBSD MAC framework is used to sandbox some services, such as mDNSresponder, much like AppArmor is used to sandbox services in some Linux distributions. The TrustedBSD MAC framework provides a default layer of firewalling given the default configuration of the sharing services in Mac OS X Leopard and Snow Leopard.\n\nThe Application firewall located in the security preferences of Mac OS X starting with Leopard provides the functionality of this type of firewall to a limited degree via the use of code signing apps added to the firewall list. For the most part, this Application firewall only manages network connections by checking to see if incoming connections are directed toward an app in the firewall list and applies the rule (block/allow) specified for those apps.\n\nThis is a list of security software packages for Linux, allowing filtering of application to OS communication, possibly on a by-user basis:\n\n\nThese devices are sold as hardware network appliances and in some instances as virtual images that run on basic server hardware.\n\nNextGeneration Firewalls:\n\nWebApplication Firewalls/LoadBalancers:\n\nOthers:\n\nSpecialized application firewalls offer a rich feature-set in protecting and controlling a specific application. Most specialized network appliance application firewalls are for web applications.\n\nLarge-scale web server hacker attacks, such as the 1996 PHF CGI exploit, lead to the investigation into security models to protect web applications. This was the beginning of what is currently referred to as the web application firewall (WAF) technology family. Early entrants in the market started appearing in 1999, such as Perfecto Technologies’s AppShield, (who later changed their name to Sanctum and in 2004 was acquired by Watchfire (acquired by IBM in 2007), which focused primarily on the ecommerce market and protected against illegal web page character entries. NetContinuum (acquired by Barracuda Networks in 2007) approached the issue by providing pre-configured ‘security servers’. Such pioneers faced proprietary rule-set issues, business case obstacles and cost barriers to wide adoption, however, the need for such solutions was taking root.\n\nIn 2002, the open source project ModSecurity, run by Thinking Stone and later acquired by Breach Security in 2006, was formed with a mission to solve these obstacles and make WAF technology accessible for every company. With the release of the core rule set, a unique open source rule set for protecting Web applications, based on the OASIS Web Application Security Technical Committee’s (WAS TC) vulnerability work, the market had a stable, well documented and standardized model to follow.\n\nIn 2003, the WAS TC’s work was expanded and standardized across the industry through the work of the Open Web Application Security Project’s (OWASP) Top 10 List. This annual ranking is a classification scheme for web security vulnerabilities, a model to provide guidance for initial threat, impact, and a way to describe conditions that can be used by both assessment and protection tools, such as a WAF. This list would go on to become the industry benchmark for many compliance schemes.\n\nIn 2004, large traffic management and security vendors, primarily in the network layer space, entered the WAF market through a flurry of mergers and acquisitions. Key among these was the mid-year move by F5 to acquire Magnifire WebSystems, and the integration of the latter’s TrafficShield software solution with the former’s Big-IP traffic management system. This same year, F5 acquired AppShield and discontinued the technology. Further consolidation occurred in 2006 with the acquisition of Kavado by Protegrity, and Citrix Systems’ buying of Teros.\n\nUntil this point, the WAF market was dominated by niche providers who focused on web application layer security. Now the market was firmly directed at integrating WAF products with the large network technologies – load balancing, application servers, network firewalls, etc. – and began a rush of rebranding, renaming and repositioning the WAF. Options were confusing, expensive and still hardly understood by the larger market.\n\nIn 2006, the Web Application Security Consortium was formed to help make sense of the now widely divergent WAF market. Dubbed the Web Application Firewall Evaluation Criteria project (WAFEC), this open community of users, vendors, academia and independent analysts and researchers created a common evaluation criterion for WAF adoption that is still maintained today.\n\nWide-scale interest in the WAF began in earnest, tied to the 2006 PCI Security Standards Council formation and compliance mandate. Major payment card brands (AMEX, Visa, MasterCard, etc.) formed PCI as a way to regulate security practices across the industry and curtail the rampant credit card fraud taking place. In particular, this standard mandated that all web applications must be secure, either through secure development or use of a WAF (requirement 6.6). The OWASP Top 10 forms the backbone of this requirement.\n\nWith the increased focus on virtualization and Cloud computing to maximize existing resources, scaling of WAF technology has become the most recent milestone.\n\nBy 2010, the WAF market had matured to a market exceeding $200M in size according to Forrester. In a February 2010 report, Web Application Firewall: 2010 And Beyond, Forrester analyst Chenxi Wang wrote, \"Forrester estimates the 2009 market revenue of the WAF+ market to be nearly $200 million, and the market will grow by a solid 20% in 2010. Security and risk managers can expect two WAF trends in 2010: 1) midmarket-friendly WAFs will become available, and 2) larger enterprises will gravitate toward the increasingly prevalent WAF+ solutions.\" She also wrote that \"Imperva is the stand alone WAF leader.\"\n\nDistributed Web Application Firewall (also called a dWAF) is a member of the web application firewall (WAF) and Web applications security family of technologies. Purely software-based, the dWAF architecture is designed as separate components able to physically exist in different areas of the network. This advance in architecture allows the resource consumption of the dWAF to be spread across a network rather than depend on one appliance, while allowing complete freedom to scale as needed. In particular, it allows the addition / subtraction of any number of components independently of each other for better resource management. This approach is ideal for large and distributed virtualized infrastructures such as private, public or hybrid cloud models.\n\nCloud-based web application firewall is also member of the web application firewall (WAF) and web applications security family of technologies. This technology is unique due to the fact that it is platform agnostic and does not require any hardware or software changes on the host. All providers but one require a DNS change, wherein all web traffic is routed through the WAF where it is inspected and threats are thwarted. Cloud-based WAFs are typically centrally orchestrated, which means that threat detection information is shared among all the tenants of the service. This collaboration results in improved detection rates and lower false positives. Like other cloud-based solutions, this technology is elastic, scalable and is typically offered as a pay-as-you grow service. This approach is ideal for cloud-based web applications and small or medium-sized websites that require web application security but are not willing or able to make software or hardware changes to their systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1156289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156289", "title": "Artificial turf", "text": "Artificial turf\n\nArtificial turf is a surface of synthetic fibers made to look like natural grass. It is most often used in arenas for sports that were originally or are normally played on grass. However, it is now being used on residential lawns and commercial applications as well. The main reason is maintenance—artificial turf stands up to heavy use, such as in sports, and requires no irrigation or trimming. Domed, covered, and partially covered stadiums may require artificial turf because of the difficulty of getting grass enough sunlight to stay healthy. Artificial turf does have its downside, however: limited life, periodic cleaning requirements, petroleum use, toxic chemicals from infill, and heightened health and safety concerns.\n\nArtificial turf first gained substantial attention in 1966, when it was installed in the year-old Astrodome. The specific product used was \"ChemGrass,\" developed by Monsanto and rebranded as AstroTurf; this term since then became a generic trademark for any artificial turf throughout the late 20th century. AstroTurf remains a registered trademark but is no longer owned by Monsanto.\n\nThe first generation turf systems (i.e., short-pile fibers without infill) of the 1960s have been largely replaced by the second generation and third generation turf systems. Second generation synthetic turf systems feature longer fibers and sand infills, and third generation systems, which are most widely used today, offer infills that are mixtures of sand and granules of recycled rubber aka \"rubber crumb\".\n\nDavid Chany, who moved to Raleigh, North Carolina, in 1960 and later served as Dean of the North Carolina State University College of Textiles, headed the team of Research Triangle Park researchers who created the first notable artificial turf. That accomplishment led \"Sports Illustrated\" to declare Chaney as the man \"responsible for indoor major league baseball and millions of welcome mats.\"\n\nArtificial turf was first installed in 1964 on a recreation area at the Moses Brown School in Providence, Rhode Island. The material came to public prominence in 1966, when AstroTurf was installed in the Astrodome in Houston, Texas. The state-of-the-art indoor stadium had attempted to use natural grass during its initial season in 1965, but this failed miserably and the field conditions were grossly inadequate during the second half of the season, with the dead grass painted green. Due to a limited supply of the new artificial grass, only the infield was installed before the Houston Astros' home opener in April 1966; the outfield was installed in early summer during an extended Astros road trip and first used after the All-Star Break in July.\n\nThe use of AstroTurf and similar surfaces became widespread in the U.S. and Canada in the early 1970s, installed in both indoor and outdoor stadiums used for baseball and football. More than 11,000 artificial turf playing fields have been installed nationally. More than 1,200 were installed in the U.S. in 2013 alone, according to the industry group the Synthetic Turf Council.\n\nMaintaining a grass playing surface indoors, while technically possible, is prohibitively expensive. Teams who chose to play on artificial surfaces outdoors did so because of the reduced maintenance cost, especially in colder climates with urban multi-purpose \"cookie cutter\" stadiums such as Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium, Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Stadium and Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium.\n\nArtificial turf was first used in Major League Baseball in the Houston Astrodome in 1966, replacing the grass field used when the stadium opened a year earlier. Even though the grass was specifically bred for indoor use, the dome's semi-transparent Lucite ceiling panels, which had been painted white to cut down on glare that bothered the players, did not pass enough sunlight to support the grass. For most of the 1965 season, the Astros played on green-painted dirt and dead grass.\n\nThe solution was to install a new type of artificial grass on the field, ChemGrass, which became known as AstroTurf. Because the supply of AstroTurf was still low, only a limited amount was available for the first home game. There was not enough for the entire outfield, but there was enough to cover the traditional grass portion of the infield. The outfield remained painted dirt until after the All-Star Break. The team was sent on an extended road trip before the break, and on July 19, 1966, the installation of the outfield portion of AstroTurf was completed.\n\nThe Chicago White Sox became the first team to install artificial turf in an outdoor stadium, as they used it in the infield and adjacent foul territory at Comiskey Park from 1969 through 1975. Artificial turf was later installed in other new multi-purpose stadiums such as Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Stadium, Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium, and Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium. Early AstroTurf baseball fields used the traditional all-dirt path, but in the early 1970s, teams began using the \"base cutout\" layout on the diamond, with the only dirt being on the pitcher's mound, batter's circle, and in a \"sliding box\" around each base. With this layout, a painted arc would indicate where the edge of the outfield grass would normally be, to assist fielders in positioning themselves properly. The last stadium in MLB to use this configuration was Rogers Centre in Toronto, when they switched to an all-dirt infield (but keeping the artificial turf) after the 2015 season. The Arizona Diamondbacks plan to convert Chase Field to artificial turf for the 2019 season. The stadium has had grass since its opening in 1998, but the difficulty of maintaining of grass in the stadium, which has a retractable roof and is located in a desert city, has been cited as the reason for the switch.\nThe biggest difference in play on artificial turf was that the ball bounced higher than on real grass and also traveled faster, causing infielders to play farther back than they would normally so that they would have sufficient time to react. The ball also had a truer bounce than on grass so that on long throws fielders could deliberately bounce the ball in front of the player they were throwing to, with the certainty that it would travel in a straight line and not be deflected to the right or left. However, the biggest impact on the game of \"turf\", as it came to be called, was on the bodies of the players. The artificial surface, which was generally placed over a concrete base, had much less give to it than a traditional dirt and grass field did, which caused more wear-and-tear on knees, ankles, feet, and the lower back, possibly even shortening the careers of those players who played a significant portion of their games on artificial surfaces. Players also complained that the turf was much hotter than grass, sometimes causing the metal spikes to burn their feet or plastic ones to melt. These factors eventually provoked a number of stadiums, such as the Kansas City Royals' Kauffman Stadium, to switch from artificial turf back to natural grass.\n\nIn 2000, Tropicana Field became the first MLB field to use a third-generation artificial surface, FieldTurf. All other remaining artificial turf stadiums were either converted to third-generation surfaces or were replaced entirely by new natural grass stadiums. In a span of 13 years, between 1992 and 2005, the National League went from having half of its teams using artificial turf to all of them playing on natural grass. With the replacement of Minneapolis's Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome by Target Field in 2010, only two MLB stadiums are still using artificial turf: Tropicana Field and Toronto's Rogers Centre.\n\nThe first professional American football team to play on artificial turf was the Houston Oilers, then part of the American Football League, who moved into the Astrodome in 1968, which had installed AstroTurf two years prior. In 1969, the University of Pennsylvania's Franklin Field in Philadelphia, at the time also home field of the Philadelphia Eagles, switched from grass to AstroTurf, making it the first National Football League stadium to use artificial turf.\n\nIn 2002, CenturyLink Field, originally planned to have a natural grass field, was instead surfaced with FieldTurf upon positive reaction from the Seattle Seahawks when they played on the surface at their temporary home of Husky Stadium during the 2000 and 2001 seasons. This would be the first of a leaguewide trend taking place over the next several seasons that would not only result in teams already using artificial surfaces for their fields switching to the new FieldTurf or other similar surfaces but would also see several teams playing on grass adopt a new surface. (The Indianapolis Colts' RCA Dome and the St. Louis Rams' Edward Jones Dome were the last two stadiums in the NFL to replace their first-generation AstroTurf surfaces for next-generation ones after the 2004 season). For example, after a three-year experiment with a natural surface, Giants Stadium went to FieldTurf for 2003, while M&T Bank Stadium added its own artificial surface the same year (it has since been removed and replaced with a natural surface, which the stadium had before installing the turf). Later examples include Paul Brown Stadium, which went from grass to turf in 2004; Gillette Stadium, which made the switch in 2006; and NRG Stadium, which did so in 2015. Today, 12 NFL fields out of 31 are artificial.\n\nThe first professional Canadian football stadium to use artificial turf was Empire Stadium in Vancouver, British Columbia, then home of the CFL's BC Lions, which installed 3M TartanTurf in 1970. Today, eight of the nine stadiums in the Canadian Football League currently use artificial turf. The only one that does not is BMO Field in Toronto, which initially had an artificial pitch and has been shared by the CFL's Toronto Argonauts since 2016 (however, part of the endzones at that stadium are covered with artificial turf). The first stadium to use the next-generation surface was Ottawa's Frank Clair Stadium (now TD Place Stadium), which the Ottawa Renegades used when they began play in 2002. The last stadium to replace their first-generation artificial surface for a newer one was the Saskatchewan Roughriders' Taylor Field, which replaced it in 2007.\n\nNFL players overwhelmingly prefer natural grass over synthetic surfaces, according to a league survey conducted in 2010. When asked, \"Which surface do you think is more likely to shorten your career?\", 90% responded artificial turf.\n\nThe introduction of synthetic surfaces has significantly changed the sport of field hockey. Since being introduced in the 1970s, competitions in western countries are now mostly played on artificial surfaces. This has increased the speed of the game considerably and changed the shape of hockey sticks to allow for different techniques, such as reverse stick trapping and hitting.\n\nField hockey artificial turf differs from artificial turf for other sports, in that it does not try to reproduce a grass \"feel\", being made of shorter fibers. This shorter fiber structure allows the improvement in speed brought by earlier artificial turfs to be retained. This development in the game, however, is problematic for many local communities who often cannot afford to build two artificial fields: one for field hockey and one for other sports. The International Hockey Federation and manufacturers are driving research in order to produce new fields that will be suitable for a variety of sports.\n\nThe use of artificial turf in conjunction with changes in the game's rules (e.g., the removal of offside, introduction of rolling substitutes and the self-pass, and to the interpretation of obstruction) have contributed significantly to change the nature of the game, greatly increasing the speed and intensity of play as well as placing far greater demands on the conditioning of the players.\n\nSome association football clubs in Europe installed synthetic surfaces in the 1980s, which were called \"plastic pitches\" (often derisively) in countries such as England. There, several professional club venues had adopted them; QPR's Loftus Road, Luton Town's Kenilworth Road, Oldham Athletic's Boundary Park and Preston's Deepdale. QPR had been the first team to install an artificial pitch at their stadium in 1981, but were the first to remove it when they did so in 1988. The last Football League team to have an artificial pitch in England was Preston North End, who removed their pitch in 1994 after eight years in use.\n\nTurf gained a bad reputation on both sides of the Atlantic with fans and especially with players. The first AstroTurfs were a far harder surface than grass and soon became known as an unforgiving playing surface that was prone to cause more injuries, and in particular, more serious joint injuries, than would comparatively be suffered on a grass surface. This turf was also regarded as aesthetically unappealing to many fans.\n\nIn 1981, London football club Queens Park Rangers dug up its grass pitch and installed an artificial one. Others followed, and by the mid-1980s there were four artificial surfaces in operation in the English league. They soon became a national joke: the ball pinged round like it was made of rubber, the players kept losing their footing, and anyone who fell over risked carpet burns. Unsurprisingly, fans complained that the football was awful to watch and, one by one, the clubs returned to natural grass.\n\nIn the 1990s, many North American soccer clubs also removed their artificial surfaces and re-installed grass, while others moved to new stadiums with state-of-the-art grass surfaces that were designed to withstand cold temperatures where the climate demanded it. The use of artificial turf was later banned by FIFA, UEFA and by many domestic football associations, though, in recent years, both governing bodies have expressed resurrected interest in the use of artificial surfaces in competition, provided that they are FIFA Recommended. UEFA has now been heavily involved in programs to test artificial turf, with tests made in several grounds meeting with FIFA approval. A team of UEFA, FIFA and German company Polytan conducted tests in the Stadion Salzburg Wals-Siezenheim in Salzburg, Austria which had matches played on it in UEFA Euro 2008. It is the second FIFA 2 Star approved artificial turf in a European domestic top flight, after Dutch club Heracles Almelo received the FIFA certificate in August 2005. The tests were approved.\nFIFA originally launched its FIFA Quality Concept in February 2001. UEFA announced that starting from the 2005–06 season, approved artificial surfaces were to be permitted in their competitions.\n\nA full international fixture for the 2008 European Championships was played on 17 October 2007 between England and Russia on an artificial surface, which was installed to counteract adverse weather conditions, at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow. It was one of the first full international games to be played on such a surface approved by both FIFA and UEFA. However, UEFA ordered that the 2008 European Champions League final hosted in the same stadium in May 2008 must take place on grass, so a temporary natural grass field was installed just for the final.\n\nUEFA stressed that artificial turf should only be considered an option where climatic conditions necessitate. One Desso \"hybrid grass\" product incorporates both natural grass and artificial elements.\n\nIn June 2009, following a match played at Estadio Ricardo Saprissa in Costa Rica, American national team manager Bob Bradley called on FIFA to \"have some courage\" and ban artificial surfaces.\n\nFIFA designated a star system for artificial turf fields that have undergone a series of tests that examine quality and performance based on a two star system. Recommended two-star fields may be used for FIFA Final Round Competitions as well as for UEFA Europa League and Champions League matches. There are currently 130 FIFA Recommended 2-Star installations in the world.\n\nIn 2009, FIFA launched the Preferred Producer Initiative to improve the quality of artificial football turf at each stage of the life cycle (manufacturing, installation and maintenance). Currently, there are five manufacturers that were selected by FIFA: Act Global, Limonta, Desso, GreenFields, and Edel Grass. These firms have made quality guarantees directly to FIFA and have agreed to increased research and development.\n\nIn 2010, Estadio Omnilife with an artificial turf opened in Guadalajara to be the new home of Chivas, one of the most popular teams in Mexico. The owner of Chivas, Jorge Vergara, defended the reasoning behind using artificial turf because the stadium was designed to be \"environment friendly and as such, having grass would result [in] using too much water.\" However, players harshly criticized the field, saying it caused many injuries as a result of the harder surface. When Johan Cruyff became the adviser of the team, he recommended the switch to natural grass, which the team did in 2012.\n\nIn November 2011, it was reported that a number of English football clubs were interested in using artificial pitches again on economic grounds. As of October 2016, artificial pitches are not permitted in the Premier League or Football League but are permitted in the National League and lower divisions. The two most prominent English football clubs to currently use third-generation artificial pitches are Sutton United, whose FIFA 2-Star quality pitch was installed at Gander Green Lane in August 2015, and Maidstone United, whose 2-Star pitch was built along with the new Gallagher Stadium in July 2012. Matches between the two clubs have been named by fans \"El Plastico\" (a reference to El Clásico). Artificial pitches are also permitted in all rounds of The FA Cup competition.\n\nThe Women's World Cup took place entirely on artificial surfaces, as the event was played in Canada, where almost all of the country's stadiums use artificial turf due to climate issues. This plan garnered criticism from players and fans, some believing the artificial surfaces make players more susceptible to injuries. Over fifty of the female athletes protested against the use of artificial turf on the basis of gender discrimination.\n\nHowever Australia winger Caitlin Foord said that after playing 90 minutes there was no difference to her post-match recovery – a view shared by the rest of the squad. The squad spent much time preparing on the surface and had no problems with its use in Winnipeg.\n\n\"We've been training on [artificial] turf pretty much all year so I think we're kind of used to it in that way ... I think grass or turf you can still pull up sore after a game so it's definitely about getting the recovery in and getting it right\", Foord said.\n\nThe 2012 Women's World Player of the Year, Abby Wambach, noted \"The men would strike, playing on artificial turf.\"\n\nThe controversial issue of gender equality and an equal playing field for all has sparked debate in many countries around the world. A lawsuit was filed on 1 October 2014 in an Ontario tribunal court by a group of women's international soccer players against FIFA and the Canadian Soccer Association and specifically points out that in 1994 FIFA spent $2 million to plant natural grass over artificial turf in New Jersey and Detroit.\n\nVarious celebrities showed their support for the women soccer players in defence of their lawsuit, including actor Tom Hanks, NBA player Kobe Bryant and U.S. men's soccer team keeper Tim Howard. Even with the possibility of boycotts, FIFA's head of women's competitions, Tatjana Haenni, made it clear that \"we play on artificial turf and there's no Plan B.\"\n\nRugby also uses artificial surfaces at a professional level. Infill fields are used by English Aviva Premiership teams Saracens F.C., Newcastle Falcons and Worcester Warriors, as well as Pro14 teams Cardiff Blues and Glasgow Warriors. Some fields, including Twickenham Stadium, have incorporated a hybrid field, with grass and synthetic fibers used on the surface. This allows for the field to be much more hard wearing, making it less susceptible to weather conditions and frequent use.\n\nCarpet has been used as a surface for indoor tennis courts for decades, though the first carpets used were more similar to home carpets than a synthetic grass. After the introduction of AstroTurf, it came to be used for tennis courts, both indoor and outdoor, though only a small minority of courts use the surface. Both infill and non-infill versions are used, and are typically considered medium-fast to fast surfaces under the International Tennis Federation's classification scheme. A distinct form found in tennis is an \"artificial clay\" surface, which seeks to simulate a clay court by using a very short pile carpet with an infill of the same loose aggregate used for clay courts that rises above the carpet fibers.\n\nTennis courts such as Wimbledon are considering using an artificial hybrid grass to replace their natural lawn courts. Such systems incorporate synthetic fibres into natural grass to create a more durable surface on which to play. Such hybrid surfaces are currently used for some association football stadiums, including Wembley Stadium.\n\nSynthetic turf can also be used in the golf industry, such as on golf ranges, putting greens and even in some circumstances tee boxes. Because of the vast areas of golf courses and the damage from clubs during shots, it is not feasible to surface fairways with artificial turf.\n\nSince the early 1990s, the use of synthetic grass in the more arid western states of the United States has moved beyond athletic fields to residential and commercial landscaping.\n\nArtificial turf has been used at airports. Some artificial turf systems allow for the integration of fiber-optic fibers into the turf. This would allow for runway lighting to be embedded in artificial landing surfaces for aircraft (or lighting or advertisements to be directly embedded in a playing surface).\n\nBoth the rubber granules (often made from recycled waste tires) and the synthetic fibres of artificial turf are subject to wear and can be washed into the environment. Second only to tire and road wear particles (TRWP) that make up a large portion of the fine road debris, the rubber granulate from artificial turf infill constitutes a significant source of rubber pollution. Fragments from the artificial reeds make their way into the environment as microplastics pollution in both marine as well as soil environments.\n\nA number of health and safety concerns have been raised about artificial turf. Friction between skin and older generations of artificial turf can cause abrasions and/or burns to a much greater extent than natural grass. Artificial turf tends to retain heat from the sun and can be much hotter than natural grass with prolonged exposure to the sun. There is some evidence that periodic disinfection of artificial turf is required as pathogens are not broken down by natural processes in the same manner as natural grass. Despite this, a 2006 study suggests certain microbial life is less active in artificial turf.\n\nThere is evidence showing higher rates of player injury on artificial turf. In a study performed by the National Football League Injury and Safety Panel, published in the October 2012 issue of the American Journal of Sports Medicine, Elliott B. Hershman et al. reviewed injury data from NFL games played between 2000 and 2009. \"...the injury rate of knee sprains as a whole was 22% higher on FieldTurf than on natural grass. While MCL sprains did not occur at a rate significantly higher than on grass, rates of ACL sprains were 67% higher on FieldTurf.\" Metatarsophalangeal joint sprain, known as \"turf toe\" when the big toe is involved, is named from the injury being associated with playing sports on rigid surfaces such as artificial turf and is a fairly common injury among professional American football players. Artificial turf is a harder surface than grass and does not have much \"give\" when forces are placed on it.\n\nSome artificial turf uses infill such as silicon sand and/or granulated rubber, referred to as \"crumb rubber\". Some granulated rubber is made from recycled car tires and may carry heavy metals which can leach into the water table. As early as 2007, a moratorium on the use of ground-up rubber tires in fields and playgrounds was recommended based on health concerns.\nAs of 2013, the EPA called for further studies to monitor the impact of particulate matter from fields and playgrounds that use artificial turf.\n\n"}
{"id": "5563689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5563689", "title": "CLAS (education)", "text": "CLAS (education)\n\nCLAS was a standards-based assessment based on Outcomes Based Education principles given in California in the early 1990s. It was based on concepts of new standards such as whole language and reform mathematics. Instead of multiple choice tests with one correct answer, it used open written responses that were graded according to rubrics. Such tests were thought to be fairer to students of all abilities.\n\nFailure rates among all groups, particularly minorities, was so high that it generated concern. It was terminated in 1995 by the governor after two years.\n\nMaureen DiMarco testified to the California State Legislature in charge of the [CLAS] that no graders were allowed to give a \"4\" top score in mathematics in the first year. It was based on open responses scored holistically, so that the correct answer to how to share 5 apples among 4 people might be to give the 5th to a food bank.\n\nMinorities scored even lower than on standardized tests, huge numbers scored in the lowest categories, as open response questions with more than one answer proved to be even more difficult than multiple choice problems.\n\nIt was replaced by STAR, which is a testing system based on traditional rigorous academic standards which largely discards the theory of outcome-based education which was widely rejected by the late 1990s in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "3045799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3045799", "title": "Capacity building", "text": "Capacity building\n\nCapacity building (or capacity development) is the process by which individuals and organizations obtain, improve, and retain the skills, knowledge, tools, equipment and other resources needed to do their jobs competently or to a greater capacity (larger scale, larger audience, larger impact, etc). Capacity building and capacity development are often used interchangeably.\n\nCommunity capacity building is a conceptual approach to social, behavioral change and leads to infrastructure development. It simultaneously focuses on understanding the obstacles that inhibit people, governments, international organizations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) from realizing their development goals and enhancing the abilities that will allow them to achieve measurable and sustainable results.\n\nThe term community capacity building emerged in the lexicon of international development during the 1990s. Today, \"community capacity building\" is included in the programs of most international organizations that work in development, such as the World Bank, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations like Oxfam International. Wide use of the term has resulted in controversy over its true meaning.\n\nCommunity capacity building often refers to strengthening the skills, competencies and abilities of people and communities in small businesses and local grassroots movements so they can achieve their goals and potentially overcome the causes of their exclusion and suffering. Organizational capacity building is used by NGOs & Governments to guide their internal development and activities.\n\nMany organizations interpret community capacity building in their own ways and focus on it rather than promoting two-way development in developing nations. Fundraising, training centers, exposure visit, office and documentation support, on the job training, learning centers and consultants are all some forms of capacity building. To prevent international aid for development from becoming perpetual dependency, developing nations are adopting strategies provided by the organizations in the form of capacity building.\n\nThe United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was one of the forerunners in developing an understanding of community capacity building or development. Since the early 70s the UNDP offered guidance for its staff and governments on what was considered \"institution building\".\n\nThe UNISDR defines capacity development in the DRR domain as \"the process by which people, organizations and society systematically stimulate and develop their capability over time to achieve social and economic goals, including through improvement of knowledge, skills, systems, and institutions – within a wider social and cultural enabling environment.\"\n\nIn 1991, the term evolved to be \"community capacity building\". The UNDP defines capacity building as a long-term continual process of development that involves all stakeholders; including ministries, local authorities, non-governmental organizations, professionals, community members, academics and more. Capacity building uses a country's human, scientific, technological, organizational, and institutional and resource capabilities. The goal of capacity building is to tackle problems related to policy and methods of development, while considering the potential, limits and needs of the people of the country concerned. The UNDP outlines that capacity building takes place on an individual level, an institutional level and the societal level.\n\n\nNon Training Level- providing enabling environment to the trained staff to perform at his optimum level.\n\nHolding similar views to the UNDP about systems nature of capacity, Wakely (1997) also believed that thinking about capacity building as simply training or human resource development was too limiting and that there needed to be a shift from that mindset. He believed increasing the capacity of the individual was not enough to contribute to the advancement of sustainable development alone, and needed to be paired with a supportive institutional and organizational environment. The three aspects of capacity building that Wakely believed essential to creating better cities are human resource development, organizational development, and institutional development. Human resource development defined as \"the process of equipping people with the understanding and skills, and access to the information and knowledge to perform effectively\", and is where Wakely believes too much emphasis and efforts are focused here. Organizational development involves the processes of how things get done within an organization and requires examining how and why an organization does something and what could be improved. Institutional development is the \"legal and regulatory changes\" that must be made in order for organizations to enhance their capacities.\n\nCommunity capacity building is defined as the \"process of developing and strengthening the skills, instincts, abilities, processes and resources that organizations and communities need to survive, adapt, and thrive in the fast-changing world.\"\n\nCommunity capacity building is the elements that give fluidity, flexibility and functionality of a program/organization to adapt to changing needs of the population that is served.\n\nInfrastructure development has been considered \"economic capacity building\" because it increases the capacity of any developed or developing society to improve trade, employment, economic development and quality of life\n\nThe term \"community capacity building\" has evolved from past terms such as institutional building and organizational development.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s these terms referred to community development that focused on enhancing the technological and self-help capacities of individuals in rural areas.\n\nIn the 1970s, following a series of reports on international development an emphasis was put on building capacity for technical skills in rural areas, and also in the administrative sectors of developing countries. In the 1980s the concept of institutional development expanded even more. Institutional development was viewed as a long-term process of building up a developing country's government, public and private sector institutions, and NGOs.\n\nThough precursors to capacity building existed before, they were not powerful forces in international development like \"capacity building\" became during the 1990s.\n\nThe emergence of capacity building as a leading development concept in the 1990s occurred due to a confluence of factors:\n\n\n\n\nWith increasing concerns about environmental issues such as climate change, there has been a focus on achieving sustainable development, or development that maximizes social, economic, and environmental benefit for the long term. During debates about how to achieve sustainable development, it has become commonplace to include discussions about local community empowerment as well as \"related concepts of participation, ownership, agency, and bottom up planning\". In order to empower local communities to be self-sustaining, capacity building has become a crucial part towards achieving sustainable development. Many NGOs and developmental organizations end up inducing chronic aid dependency within communities by doing developmental projects for the communities rather than in partnership with them.\n\nReports like the and ideas like those of Freire from earlier decades emphasized that \"no one could develop anyone else\" and development had to be participatory. These arguments questioned the effectiveness of \"service delivery programs\" for achieving sustainable development, thus leading the way for a new emphasis on \"capacity building.\"\n\nIn September 2000, the commitment, sealed in the Millennium Declaration in September 2000 in New York, of 190 countries to achieving the Millennium Development Goal by 2015, and the urgent need for countries, particularly developing countries, to effectively and speedily respond to the current global economic recession, climate change and other crises that are plaguing the world and adding to the two billion people already living below the poverty line, has renewed interest and engagement in capacity building.\n\nIn the UNDP's 2008–2013 \"strategic plan for development\" capacity building is the \"organization's core contribution to development\". The UNDP promotes a capacity building approach to development in the 166 countries it is active in. It focuses on building capacity on an institutional level and offers a six–step process for systematic capacity building.\n\nThe steps are:\n\n\nThe UNDP integrates this capacity building system into its work on reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The UNDP focuses on building capacity at the institutional level because it believes that \"institutions are at the heart of human development, and that when they are able to perform better, sustain that performance over time, and manage 'shocks' to the system, they can contribute more meaningfully to the achievement of national human development goals.\"\n\nCapacity building in developing countries is explained by Lant Pritchett, Michael Woolcock, and Matt Andres as a fourfold modernization process in the areas of: \n\n\nIn this theory, called Modernization Theory, growth over time in these four areas leads to a state becoming developed. The underlying idea behind this theory is that development agencies are tasked with facilitating growth in these four areas in order to speed up the process of development or make the process more equitable.\n\nOne of the most fundamental ideas associated with capacity building is the idea of building the capacities of governments in developing countries so they are able to handle the problems associated with environmental, economic and social transformations. Developing a government's capacity whether at the local, regional or national level will allow for better governance that can lead to sustainable development and democracy. To avoid authoritarianism in developing nations, a focus has been placed on developing the abilities and skills of national and local governments so power can be diffused across a state. Capacity building in governments often involves providing the tools to help them best fulfill their responsibilities. These include building up a government's ability to budget, collect revenue, create and implement laws, promote civic engagement, be transparent and accountable and fight corruption.\n\nJoel S. Migdal explains that governments can strengthen weak states by building capacity through changing land tenure patterns, adjusting methods of taxation, and improving modes of transportation. Migdal cites Mexico's passing of Ley de desamortización in 1856 as an example of establishing property rights as a means to strengthen a government's capacity for rule by establishing order. This establishes a social structure to reduce citizen conflict within the state and a means to organize agricultural production for optimal output. Adjusting methods of taxation is another way to consolidate power in a weak state's government. This can be done through increasing government revenue through increased taxation and also formalizing tax collection by collecting taxes in cash instead of in kind. Migdal cites the example of 19th Century Egypt's declaration of cash taxes only as the reason for increased economic capacity as farmers were forced into more market relations, pushing them to produce crops for export to increase cash revenue. This gave the state more liquid income. Also, Migdal explains that new modes of transportation can strengthen a state's capacity through decreased isolation leading to increasing economic opportunity by regional trade, increased accessibility, and reduced cost of transporting goods. Migdal cites the example of the railroad in India in 1853 as a means of growing the cotton export industry by 500%.\n\nBelow are examples of capacity building in governments of developing countries:\n\n\nOne approach that some developing countries have attempted to foster capacity building is through isomorphic mimicry. Similar to the concept of mimetic isomorphism used in organizational theory, isomorphic mimicry refers to the tendency of government to mimic other governments' successes by replicating methods and policy designs deemed successful in other countries. While such an approach can be effective for solving certain development problems that have \"a universal technical solution\", it often ignores the political and organizational realities on the ground and produces little benefits to those using it. An example of a failed mimicry relates to the legal reform in Melanesia. In response to a major international assistance mission to improve the quality of the justice system, a jail and a courthouse were built, costing millions of dollars. However, the new justice infrastructure has been rarely used since its establishment, because there has been a lack of bureaucracy and financial sources to support the expensive justice system. As summarized by Haggard et al., accelerated modernization is an entirely inappropriate strategy for enhancing the functionality of legal system as solutions like this often require state capacities that developing countries do not have. Another example took place in Argentina. During the economic crisis in late 1980s, the government implemented a series of fiscal policies as recommended by IMF to regulate high point inflation affecting the country's economy. However, rather than constraining aggregate spending, the fiscal rule merely shifted spending from the central and to provincial governments. Adopting international best practices do not often translate into positive changes; in the case of Argentina, the mimicry produced little change to the vulnerable economy.\n\nThe capacity building approach is used at many levels throughout, including local, regional, national and international levels. Capacity building can be used to reorganize and capacitate governments or individuals. International donors like USAID often include capacity building as a form of assistance for developing governments or NGOs working in developing areas. Historically this has been through a US contractor identifying an in-country NGO and supporting its financial, M&E and technical systems toward the goals of that USAID intervention. The NGO's capacity is developed as a sub-implementer of the donor. However, many NGOs participate in a form of capacity building that is aimed toward individuals and the building of local capacity. In a recent report commissioned by UNAIDS and the Global Fund, individual NGOs voiced their needs and preference for broader capacity development inputs by donors and governments. For individuals and in-country NGOs, capacity building may relate to leadership development, advocacy skills, training/speaking abilities, technical skills, organizing skills, and other areas of personal and professional development. One of the most difficult problems with building capacity on a local level is the lack of higher education in developing countries. Between 2 and 5 percent of Africans have been to tertiary school.\n\nAnother difficulty is ongoing brain drain in developing countries. Often, young people who develop skills and capacities that can allow for sustainable development leave their home country. Damtew Teferra of Boston College's Center for African Higher Education argues that local capacity builders are needed now more than ever and increased resources should be provided for programs that focus on developing local expertise and skills.\n\nThe development sector, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa has many decades of 'international technical advisors' working with and mentoring government officials and national non-government organisations. In health service delivery, whether maternal care or HIV related, community organisations have been started and often grew through the strength of their staff and commitment to be national and even regional leaders in their technical fields. Whilst higher education is still an under-served demand, there are significant resources of experienced staff. More recent donor initiatives, including The Global Fund's Community Systems Strengthening and the US PEPFAR Technical Assistance to the New Partners Initiative begin to address the organisation capacity needs and stronger skills to be recognised as part of the national response to health needs in a country. To complete the capacity development cycle, the Global Fund and UNAIDS Technical Support Facility and the TA teams for CSO funded by the New Partners Initiative are staffed and managed by residents and nationals of those same developing countries.\n\nBelow are some examples of NGOs and programs that use the term \"capacity building\" to describe their activities on a local scale:\n\n\nThe first example depicts capacity building as tool to deliver individuals the skills they need to work effectively in civil society. In the case of Mercy Ships, the capacity building is delivering the capacity for individuals to be stakeholders and participants in defined activities, such as health care.\nSocietal development in poorer nations is often contingent upon the efficiency of organizations working within that nation. Organizational capacity building focuses on developing the capacities of organizations, specifically NGOs, so they are better equipped to accomplish the missions they have set out to fulfill. Failures in development can often be traced back to an organization's inability to deliver on the service promises it has pledged to keep. Capacity building in NGOs often involves building up skills and abilities, such as decision making, policy-formulation, appraisal, and learning. It is not uncommon for donors in the global north to fund capacity building for NGOs themselves. For organizations, capacity building may relate to almost any aspect of its work: improved governance, leadership, mission and strategy, administration (including human resources, financial management, and legal matters), program development and implementation, fund-raising and income generation, diversity, partnerships and collaboration, evaluation, advocacy and policy change, marketing, positioning, planning. Capacity building in NGOS is a way to strengthen an organization so that it can perform the specific mission it has set out to do and thus survive as an organization. It is an ongoing process that incites organizations to continually reflect on their work, organization, and leadership and ensure that they are fulfilling the mission and goals they originally set out to do.\n\nAlan Kaplan, an international development practitioner and leading NGO scholar, asserts that capacity development of organizations involves the build-up of an organization's tangible and intangible assets. He argues that for NGOs to be effective facilitators of capacity building in developing areas, they must first focus on developing their organization. Kaplan argues that capacity building and organizational development in organizations should first focus on intangible qualities such as:\n\n\nKaplan argues that NGOs who focus on developing a conceptual framework, an organizational attitude, vision and strategy are more adept at being self-reflective and critical, two qualities that enable more effective capacity building. Though he asserts that these intangible qualities are of utmost importance – Kaplan says that tangible qualities such as skills, training and material resources such as tools, handbooks, manuals, advisories, primers, guidelines, etc are also imperative.\n\nAnother aspect of organizational capacity building is an organization's capacity to reassess, reexamine and change according to what is most needed and what will be the most effective.\n\nSince the arrival of community capacity building as such a dominant subject in international aid, donors and practitioners have struggled to determine a concise mechanism for determining the effectiveness of capacity building initiatives. In 2007, David Watson, developed specific criteria for effective evaluation and monitoring of capacity building. Watson complained that the traditional method of monitoring NGOs that is based primarily on a linear results-based framework is not enough for capacity building. He argues that evaluating capacity building NGOS should be based on a combination of monitoring the results of their activities and also a more open flexible way of monitoring that also takes into consideration, self-improvement and cooperation. Watson observed 18 case studies of capacity building evaluations and concluded that certain specific themes were visible:\n\n\nIn 2007, USAID published a report on its approach to monitoring and evaluating capacity building. According to the report, USAID monitors: program objectives, the links between projects and activities of an organization and its objectives, a program or organization's measurable indicators, data collection, and progress reports. USAID evaluates: why objectives were achieved, or why they were not, the overall contributions of projects, it examines qualifiable results that are more difficult to measure, it looks at unintended results or consequences, it looks at reports on lessons learned. USAID uses two types of indicators for progress: \"output indicators\" and \"outcome indicators.\" Output indicators measure immediate changes or results such as the number of people trained. Outcome indicators measure the impact, such as laws changed due to trained advocates.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1160278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160278", "title": "Checkers speech", "text": "Checkers speech\n\nThe Checkers speech or Fund speech was an address made on September 23, 1952, by the Republican candidate for Vice President of the United States, California Senator Richard Nixon. Nixon had been accused of improprieties relating to a fund established by his backers to reimburse him for his political expenses. With his place on the Republican ticket in doubt, he flew to Los Angeles and delivered a half-hour television address in which he defended himself, attacked his opponents, and urged the audience to contact the Republican National Committee (RNC) to tell it whether he should remain on the ticket. During the speech, he stated that regardless of what anyone said, he intended to keep one gift: a black-and-white dog who had been named Checkers by the Nixon children, thus giving the address its popular name.\n\nNixon, as he related in his address, came from a family of modest means, and had spent much of his time after law school either in the military, campaigning for office, or serving in Congress. After his successful 1950 Senate campaign, Nixon's backers continued to raise money to finance his political activities. These contributions went to reimburse him for travel costs, postage for political mailings which he did not have franked, and similar expenses. Such a fund was not illegal at the time, but, because Nixon had made a point of attacking government corruption, it exposed him to charges he might be giving special favors to the contributors.\n\nThe press became aware of the fund in September 1952, two months after Nixon's selection as General Dwight D. Eisenhower's running mate. Within a few days, the story grew until the controversy threatened Nixon's place on the ticket. In an attempt to turn the tide of public opinion, Nixon broke off a whistle-stop tour of the West Coast to fly to Los Angeles to make a television and radio broadcast to the nation; the $75,000 to buy the television time was raised by the RNC. The idea for the Checkers reference came from Franklin Roosevelt's Fala speech—given eight years to the day before Nixon's address—in which Roosevelt mocked Republican claims that he had sent a destroyer to fetch his dog, Fala, when the dog was supposedly left behind in the Aleutian Islands.\n\nNixon's speech was seen or heard by about 60 million Americans, including the largest television audience to that time, and led to an outpouring of public support. A huge majority of the millions of telegrams and phone calls received by the RNC and other political offices supported Nixon. He was retained on the ticket, which then swept to victory weeks later in November 1952. The Checkers speech was an early example of a politician using television to appeal directly to the electorate, but has since sometimes been mocked or denigrated. \"Checkers speech\" has come more generally to mean any emotional speech by a politician.\n\nIn 1950, California Congressman Richard Nixon was elected to the Senate, defeating Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas. With the six-year term secured, Nixon campaign officials discussed how to further his career. Campaign manager Murray Chotiner and campaign chairman Bernie Brennan proposed a year-round campaign for the next six years, leading up to a re-election bid in 1956. Nixon's Southern California campaign treasurer Dana Smith suggested what became known as \"the Fund\", to be administered by himself, which would pay for Nixon's political expenses.\n\nAs Smith wrote to one potential contributor, money donated to the Fund was to be used for:\n\nAs a senator, Nixon received an annual salary of $12,500 (about $150,000 in 2009 dollars). While he received an expense allowance of over $75,000, more than most senators received (because California was one of the most populous states), that money went to pay his staff of 12 and to cover the cost of stationery, telephone service, telegrams, and other office expenses. It also paid for the one set of round-trip airline tickets between Washington, D.C., and California that Nixon was allowed to buy for himself and his family at taxpayer expense each Congressional session.\n\nNixon later characterized the attitude of his backers and aides as, \"We want you to start campaigning right now for 1956, and we think the way to do it is to have available the funds to make speeches, make trips to California, and so forth.\" Contributors were drawn only from his early supporters, and contributions were limited to $1,000. Nixon was not to be informed of the names of contributors; however, the fundraising letter stated that Nixon \"will of course be very appreciative of your continuing interest\". By October 30, 1951, some $16,000 had been raised, of which Nixon had spent approximately $12,000, principally from contributors in the Los Angeles area. The senator's Christmas card expense for 1950 and 1951 totaled $4,237.54. Despite the initial fundraising success, only $2,200 could be raised from November 1951 to July 1952, and an engraving bill was unpaid pending a hoped-for contribution of $500.\n\nIn 1952, the Republicans chose Dwight D. Eisenhower as their presidential candidate, who then selected Nixon as his running mate, while the Democrats nominated Illinois Governor Adlai Stevenson for president and Alabama Senator John Sparkman for vice president. The California delegation to the 1952 Republican National Convention, including Nixon, had been pledged to the state's \"favorite son\" candidate, Governor Earl Warren, who hoped to gain the presidential nomination in a brokered convention. Warren failed in his attempt to gain the nomination, and his supporters alleged that Nixon had worked behind the scenes to nominate Eisenhower despite his pledge to support Warren, and accused him of political opportunism for accepting the vice presidential nomination. A disgruntled Warren supporter from Pasadena leaked the Fund story to several reporters.\n\nNixon had campaigned for public integrity in his time in the Senate, even calling for the resignation of his own party chairman, Guy Gabrielson, when the latter was implicated in a loan scandal. By using such \"indignant rhetoric\", Nixon had \"weakened his own position\" when the Fund crisis erupted.\n\nOn September 14, Nixon was asked about the Fund by reporter Peter Edson of the Newspaper Enterprise Association after the senator completed an appearance on \"Meet the Press\". The candidate told Edson that the Fund was set up by his supporters to pay political expenses, explained that he had made no effort to find out the names of the donors, and referred Edson to Smith for further information. Edson, and other reporters, did contact Smith, who answered questions about the Fund. Three days later, Nixon's campaign train, the \"\"Dick Nixon Special\", left Pomona, California, on a whistle-stop campaign tour of the West Coast and Rocky Mountain states.\nEdson's column on the 18th, which included lengthy quotes by Smith on the supposed safeguards in the Fund, was later called by Nixon, \"fair and objective\". However, Leo Katcher of the \"New York Post\" interviewed Smith and wrote a story under the headline \"Secret Rich Men's Trust Fund Keeps Nixon in Style Far Beyond His Salary\" and referred to the Fund donors as a \"millionaires' club\". Nixon later praised Katcher's younger brother Edward, also a reporter, for his objectivity, but told him, \"your brother Leo is a son of a bitch\".\n\nWhen the \"Dick Nixon Special\" arrived in Bakersfield, California, that day, the candidate, still oblivious to the developing furor, made a speech promoting the Republican ticket, and backing local congressman Thomas H. Werdel. After the speech, Republican activist Keith McCormac showed Nixon the \"Post\" story, which had been picked up by United Press under the headline \"Nixon Scandal Fund\". According to McCormac, the senator collapsed into his seat in shock, and needed the help of Murray Chotiner, who was again Nixon's campaign manager, and Congressman Patrick J. Hillings (a Nixon confidant who had succeeded him in the House of Representatives) to return to his compartment.\n\nDemocratic National Committee Chairman Stephen A. Mitchell called for Nixon's resignation from the ticket, saying that \"Senator Nixon knows that [the Fund] is morally wrong. General Eisenhower knows that it is morally wrong. The American people know that it is morally wrong.\" On the other hand, Republican Senator Karl Mundt called the story \"a filthy maneuver by left-wingers, fellow travelers, and former communists\". Nixon issued a written statement explaining that the fund was to pay political expenses, in lieu of charging them to the taxpayer. Newspapers printed increasingly lurid accounts of the Fund and its beneficiary. The \"Sacramento Bee\" termed Nixon \"the pet protégé of a special interest group of rich southern Californians ... their front man, if not, indeed, their lobbyist.\" The \"Pasadena Star-News\", meanwhile, reported that one contributor had been appealed to on the grounds that the Nixon family needed a larger home and could not afford a maid.\n\nThe train reached Marysville, California, on the morning of September 19, and Nixon gave a speech from the rear platform. As the train pulled out, while he remained on the rear platform, someone in the crowd yelled, \"What about the $16,000?\" (the amount then thought to have been contributed to the Fund). The candidate had the train stopped, and responded that he had been told that if he continued on his political course, \"crooks and communists\" would smear him. He told the crowd that the Fund had saved the taxpayer money, since it paid for matters that could have been paid for through his Senate expense allowance. He promised to throw the \"crooks and communists\" out of Washington.\n\nEisenhower was on his own train, the \"Look Ahead, Neighbor\", stumping through Missouri, and on the morning of the 19th, his campaign staff made him aware of the gathering storm. Eisenhower publicly called upon Nixon to release all documents relating to the Fund, somewhat to the dismay of Chotiner, who wondered, \"What more does the general require than the senator's word?\" Eisenhower aides contacted the senior Republican senator from California, William Knowland, and persuaded him to fly from Hawaii to join the Eisenhower train and be available as a potential replacement running mate.\n\nBy this time, Nixon campaign headquarters was receiving a flood of messages, calling on the senator to resign from the ticket. When Eisenhower's train stopped for the candidate to make speeches, he faced protesters with signs reading \"Donate Here to Help Poor Richard Nixon\". The influential \"Washington Post\" and \"New York Herald-Tribune\" both called for Nixon to leave the ticket, facts which Chotiner did not tell his candidate; Nixon learned them from a questioning reporter. Over 100 newspapers would editorialize about the Fund on the morning of September 20, opinion running two to one against Nixon. As his train stopped in Eugene, Oregon, Nixon was met with protestors signs referencing his wife: \"Pat, What Are You Going to Do With the Bribe Money?\" and \"No Mink Coats for Nixon—Just Cold Cash\". He angrily responded with a phrase which would be echoed in the Checkers speech. After stating that there were no mink coats for the Nixons, the candidate said that he was \"proud of the fact that Pat Nixon wears a good Republican cloth coat, and she's going to continue to.\"\n\nPoliticians from both parties opined on the propriety of the Fund and on what Nixon should do, most in accord with their political affiliation. Democratic presidential candidate Stevenson, though, publicly reserved judgment, leading Chotiner to suspect \"that Stevenson is afraid of something here. I bet he has something to hide.\"\n\nOn September 20, Republican National Committee official Bob Humphreys first suggested that Nixon give a televised speech to the nation to explain his position. RNC chairman and future Postmaster General Arthur Summerfield thought well of the idea, but was concerned about the expense. That evening, Nixon conferred with his aides, who unanimously urged him not to resign from the ticket. Humphreys called Chotiner at Nixon's hotel in Portland, Oregon that evening, and the campaign manager realized that the broadcast was the best opportunity for the candidate to make his case. Humphreys suggested Nixon appear on \"Meet the Press\", but Chotiner rejected the suggestion, insisting that his candidate must have complete control of the broadcast \"without interruption by possibly unfriendly press questions\". Humphreys mentioned that Summerfield was concerned about the cost of a television broadcast, but Chotiner noted that the cost of reprinting all campaign materials to reflect a change on the ticket would be far more than that of a telecast.\n\nThe avalanche of editorial opinion continued the following day, Sunday, September 21, but Eisenhower continued to withhold judgment. The general considered asking retired Supreme Court Justice Owen Roberts to evaluate the legality of the Fund, but time constraints ruled him out. Eisenhower decided to ask the Los Angeles law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher for a legal opinion, while asking the accounting firm Price Waterhouse to audit the Fund's records. Nixon, meanwhile, was encouraged by a supportive telegram from his mother and discouraged by one from former Minnesota governor Harold Stassen urging him to resign from the ticket. New York Governor Thomas E. Dewey, a Nixon supporter, called to tell the senator that most Eisenhower aides favored his removal, and that if Nixon made the telecast, he should call for people to write to express their opinions. Dewey added that if the response was not strongly pro-Nixon, the senator should leave the ticket.\n\nNixon finally got a call from Eisenhower at 10 pm, Pacific time, Sunday night. Eisenhower expressed a reluctance to see him leave the ticket, and felt that he should have a chance to make his case to the American people. Nixon enquired if the general would be able to make a decision on whether to keep him as the running mate immediately after the broadcast, and when Eisenhower equivocated, he angrily burst out: \"General, there comes a time in matters like this when you've either got to shit or get off the pot.\" Eisenhower replied that it might take three or four days to gauge public reaction.\n\nThrough the night to the morning of September 22, Eisenhower and Nixon aides arranged the speech. The RNC worked to raise the $75,000 needed to buy the half hour of television time, while the Eisenhower staff secured sixty NBC stations to telecast the speech, with radio coverage from CBS and Mutual. The Nixon staff initially advocated a half hour that evening, Monday, September 22, to follow the immensely popular \"I Love Lucy\" show, but when the candidate indicated he could not be ready that soon, settled for 6:30 pm Tuesday night, 9:30 pm in the East, following the almost equally popular \"Texaco Star Theater\", starring Milton Berle. The campaign arranged to use the El Capitan Theatre, in Hollywood, where several NBC variety shows were then broadcast, since its lighting was superior to that of NBC Studios. Nixon told the press that he would be addressing the nation on television, but refused to take any questions about what he might say.\n\nOn Monday morning, Nixon flew to Los Angeles, making notes for his speech aboard the plane. He jotted down the line he had said in Eugene regarding his wife's coat. He made notes concerning the family finances, upsetting Pat Nixon, who asked why people had to know their financial details. The senator responded that people in politics live in a fishbowl. He recalled the Fala speech, in which Franklin Roosevelt had sarcastically responded to Republican claims he had sent a destroyer to fetch his dog, Fala, and remembered the dog his children had recently received: A Texas traveling salesman named Lou Carrol had read a report that Pat Nixon said her children Tricia and Julie \"longed\" for a dog, and his own dog, an American Cocker Spaniel, had just had a litter. After a telegram exchange, he crated the puppy and shipped it by rail to the Nixons, and six-year-old Tricia Nixon named the dog \"Checkers\". Nixon decided that including the anecdote evoking FDR would needle his enemies and delight his friends.\n\nWhen the plane reached Los Angeles, Nixon secluded himself in a suite in The Ambassador Hotel, letting no one except his wife, Chotiner, and attorney and adviser William P. Rogers have any hint what he was planning. He called two professors he knew at his alma mater, Whittier College, seeking appropriate Abraham Lincoln quotes. They called back with two suggestions, one of which he used. Unwilling to have his message filtered, the candidate adamantly refused to provide the media with any advance text of his speech, convinced that it would reduce the size of his audience. Without any hard information on what would be said during the speech, rumors flew through the media. UPI reported that Nixon would resign from the ticket well before the scheduled time for the speech. On the evening of the 22nd, the media broke the story that Democratic nominee Adlai Stevenson had a similar fund, as Chotiner had predicted. The Stevenson information had been leaked by Bob Humphreys at the RNC, but as he later ruefully noted, \"Nobody paid much attention to it.\"\n\nThe morning of the 23rd, the day of the speech, brought the reports from the lawyers, who opined that it was legal for a senator to accept expense reimbursements, and from the accountants, who stated that there was no evidence of misappropriation of money. The Fund was to be dissolved, and gifts accepted since Nixon's nomination were to be accounted for as campaign contributions. Despite the reports, Eisenhower had second thoughts about relying on the success of the speech. He told an aide to call Governor Dewey, who was to call Nixon and instruct him to close his speech with his resignation from the ticket. Believing they had resolved the situation at last, Eisenhower and his staff had a relaxed dinner and began to prepare for his own speech that evening, before 15,000 Republican supporters in Cleveland.\n\nAt 4:30 pm Pacific Time, Nixon, Chotiner, and Rogers were discussing where the public should be told to send their responses to the speech, when a Dewey aide telephoned for Nixon. Reluctantly, suspecting the reason for the call, Chotiner brought Nixon to the phone to speak with the New York governor. Dewey told Nixon that Eisenhower's aides were unanimous that Nixon must resign, though Dewey did not agree, and that Nixon was to so state at the end of his telecast. Nixon asked what the general wanted him to do. Dewey hedged, stating that he had not spoken with the presidential candidate himself, but that the word had come from such close aides to Eisenhower that the demand had to represent the general's view. The candidate replied that it was very late for him to change his remarks; Dewey assured him he need not do so, but simply add at the end his resignation from the ticket and his insistence that Eisenhower accept it. The governor suggested he even announce his resignation from the Senate and his intent to run in the special election which would follow—the two-time losing presidential candidate was sure Nixon would be returned with a huge majority, thus vindicating him. Nixon remained silent for some time, and when Dewey asked him what he would do, the senator told him that he did not know, and if Eisenhower's aides wanted to find out, they could watch just like everyone else. Before slamming down the receiver, Nixon added, \"And tell them I know something about politics, too!\"\n\nNixon, somewhat dazed by the conversation with Dewey, dressed for the speech and reviewed his notes. Chotiner came into the senator's room, and told him that if he was forced off the ticket, Chotiner would call a huge press conference and reveal all the maneuvering that had led to Nixon's departure; Chotiner added that the resulting furor would mean nothing to either of the two men, since they would be through with politics anyway. Nixon later stated that Chotiner's promise broke the tension and gave him a needed lift. Senator and Mrs. Nixon and his staff journeyed to the El Capitan, where they were met by a cheering group of Young Republicans on the sidewalk outside, including future White House Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman. In Cleveland, General and Mamie Eisenhower, with the general's aides, prepared to watch the speech on television in the manager's office above the Cleveland Public Auditorium, where the presidential candidate was to speak.\n\nThe El Capitan Theatre, at Nixon's insistence, was entirely deserted. Press members were confined to a nearby room, where they could watch on television; stenographers were standing by at the Ambassador to ensure an accurate transcript of Nixon's remarks for the press, who would be facing deadlines in the East. Chotiner and Rogers would watch from behind a screen in the theatre; Pat Nixon, wearing a dress knitted by supporters, would sit on stage a few feet from her husband. The chosen set was a \"GI bedroom den\" with a desk, two chairs, and bookshelves. The senator usually preferred to work from a memorized text, but would work from notes for this speech to make the talk sound more spontaneous. Nixon spent some time practicing movements for the cameramen and finally went into the dressing room with his wife for a few minutes of solitude. He told her that he did not think he could go through with it, but she reassured him.\n\nThe speech opened with Nixon sitting at the desk. He began, \"My fellow Americans, I come before you tonight as a candidate for the Vice Presidency, and as a man whose honesty and integrity has been questioned.\" The senator indicated that he would not follow the example of the Truman Administration and ignore charges, and that the best response to a smear \"is to tell the truth\".\n\nThe candidate mentioned the $18,000 Fund, and that he was accused of taking money from a group of his supporters. After stating that the Fund was wrong if he had profited from it, if it had been conducted in secret, or if the contributors received special favors, the senator continued,\n\nNixon stated that no contributor to the fund got any service that an ordinary constituent would not have received, and then anticipated the skeptical questions, \"Well, what did you use the fund for, Senator? Why did you have to have it?\" In response to his rhetorical question, he explained salary and office allowances for senators. He went through different ways that political expenses could be met. One way was to be rich, but the senator stated that he was not rich. Another way was to put one's spouse on the Congressional office payroll, as, he stated, his Democratic rival, Senator John Sparkman, had done. Nixon did not feel comfortable doing that himself with so many deserving stenographers in Washington needing work, though Pat Nixon was a \"wonderful stenographer\" and sometimes helped out in the office as a volunteer. At this point, the camera turned from Nixon for the first time to reveal Pat Nixon sitting alongside the desk. The senator indicated he could not continue his law practice, as some Congressmen did, due to the distance to California, and in any event he felt that practicing law while a lawmaker was a conflict of interest. Thus, he indicated, he had found that the best way to pay for political expenses not within his means was to allow contributors to do so. Nixon proffered the legal and accounting opinions as proof of his statements.\n\nNixon, continuing to ask skeptical rhetorical questions, indicated that some might feel that even with the opinions, he might have found some way to personally benefit. In response to his own question, the senator detailed his background and financial situation, beginning with his birth in Yorba Linda, and the family grocery store in which the Nixon boys helped out. He alluded to his work in college and law school, his service record, and stated that at the end of the war, he and Pat Nixon had $10,000 in savings, all of it patriotically in government bonds. The candidate gave the dollar amounts of small inheritances that the Nixons had received from relatives, before turning to their life in Washington:\n\nAs the senator discussed their finances, the telecast again showed Pat Nixon, fixedly watching her husband. Pat Nixon later stated that her rapt gaze was because she did not know exactly what he would say, and wanted to hear. Nixon detailed their assets and liabilities: the mortgaged home in Washington; the similarly mortgaged home in California, then occupied by his parents. The loans from his parents and from Riggs Bank. The borrowed-against life insurance policy on the senator; no insurance on his wife or children. The two-year-old Oldsmobile and the family furniture, and that he and his wife owned no stocks or bonds.\n\nWhile the senator made these points, Murray Chotiner \"let out shouts of glee\" in his screened booth. As Chotiner exulted, Nixon moved ahead with the lines \"that would give the speech its name, make it famous, and notorious\":\n\nNixon expressed pleasure that Stevenson, whom he termed a man who inherited wealth from his father, could run for president. But people \"of modest means\" must also get a chance, and the candidate recited the quotation attributed to Lincoln: \"Remember Abraham Lincoln, you remember what he said: 'God must have loved the common people—He made so many of them.'\"\n\nNixon then called for Stevenson to give a full accounting of his own fund, and a full list of the donors. He also called for Senator Sparkman, who, as Nixon repeated, had put his wife on the payroll, to state fully any outside income he might have had. \"Because, folks, remember, a man that's to be President of the United States, a man that's to be Vice President of the United States must have the confidence of all the people. And that's why I'm doing what I'm doing, and that's why I suggest that Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Sparkman since they are under attack should do what I am doing.\" As the senator made this point, Eisenhower, sitting in the Cleveland office, slammed his pencil down, realizing that he would not be allowed to be the only major party candidate whose finances would evade scrutiny. Eisenhower had benefited from a favorable Act of Congress, allowing the income from his bestselling memoirs to be considered capital gains.\n\nNixon warned that other smears would be made against him, and many of the same commentators who were attacking him now had also attacked him for his role in the Alger Hiss case, for which he made no apologies. He then rose to his feet, came out from behind the desk, and continued:\n\nThe senator alleged that Stevenson had downplayed the threat of communism, and was thus unfit to be president. He affirmed that Eisenhower was the only man fit to lead the country in ridding the government of corruption and communism. Reading parts of a letter from the wife of a serviceman fighting in the Korean War, who, despite her financial woes, had scraped together $10 to donate to the campaign, Nixon promised that he would never cash that check.\n\nWith less than three minutes left in the allotted time, Nixon finally addressed the question: Would he stay or would he go? He indicated that he did not think he should go. \"Let me say this: I don't believe that I ought to quit because I'm not a quitter. And, incidentally, Pat's not a quitter. After all, her name was Patricia Ryan and she was born on St. Patrick's Day, and you know the Irish never quit.\"\n\nSeizing on the fact that the Republican National Convention had routinely given the RNC the power to fill vacancies on the ticket, Nixon evaded Eisenhower's power as the general again slammed his pencil down, this time breaking it:\n\nAdvancing towards the camera, the candidate completed the speech by praising Eisenhower, \"He's a great man. And a vote for Eisenhower is a vote for what's good for America.\"\n\nNixon was initially convinced that the speech was a failure. Despite the congratulations of Rogers and Chotiner, and the fact that one of the cameramen had tears running down his face, he reproved himself for not mentioning the address of the Republican National Committee. Though the Young Republicans continued their applause as the Nixon party left the theatre, the candidate fixed on an Irish Setter running alongside his car as it pulled away from the curb. \"Well, we made a hit in the dog world anyway.\" Despite the senator's despair, his wife was convinced that her husband had vindicated himself. Over sixty million Americans had watched or listened to the speech, including the largest television audience up to that point.\n\nNixon had left the Ambassador with the lobby quiet; he returned to a mob scene, and the candidate was soon surrounded by well-wishers congratulating him. The party was able to get through to his suite, and after a few minutes of tense quiet, calls and telegrams began to pour in \"from everywhere\" praising the speech and urging him to remain on the ticket—but no word came from Eisenhower in Cleveland.\n\nIn Cleveland, as the speech concluded, General Eisenhower turned to RNC Chairman Summerfield, \"Well, Arthur, you sure got your money's worth.\" Mamie Eisenhower was in tears, and the general told her that Nixon was a completely honest man. The 15,000 supporters waiting for Eisenhower to speak had heard the Checkers speech over the hall's public address system, and when Congressman George H. Bender took the microphone and asked the crowd, \"Are you in favor of Nixon?\", pandemonium ensued. As the crowd below chanted, \"We want Nixon!\", Eisenhower quickly revised his speech.\n\nBoth Eisenhower's speech to the excited crowd and telegram to his running mate were noncommittal. The general applauded his running mate for his speech, but stated that the two had to meet face to face before a final decision could be made. While Eisenhower affirmed that the RNC had the power to elect a replacement candidate, Eisenhower indicated that the committee would, most likely, be guided by his wishes. Eisenhower asked Nixon to meet with him in person in Wheeling, West Virginia, where the general's campaign was next scheduled to go. Eisenhower's telegram was delayed in transmission and lost among the flood being sent to Nixon's suite, and the latter learned of his running mate's position from a wire service report.\n\nWhen he heard of Eisenhower's posture, Nixon's happiness at what he had finally been convinced was a \"tour de force\" turned to fury, and he stated that if the speech did not satisfy the general, nothing he could do would. He called in his secretary, Rose Mary Woods, and dictated a telegram to the RNC resigning from the ticket. As Woods left the room with her notes, Chotiner stopped her, took the sheet, and ripped it up. While Chotiner understood Nixon's rage, he felt that the resignation was premature. The campaign manager urged Nixon simply to allow the public wave of support to pressure Eisenhower. He suggested that instead of going to Wheeling as Eisenhower had requested, that they resume the train tour in Missoula, Montana. Nixon sent Eisenhower a curt acknowledgment of his telegram, and a suggestion that they meet the following week in Washington, D.C. Chotiner then called Summerfield, telling him that Nixon felt he had been abused enough, and would not meet with Eisenhower until Summerfield was able to promise, on his word of honor, that the senator would be confirmed as nominee at that meeting. \"Dick is not going to be placed in the position of a little boy going somewhere to beg for forgiveness.\"\n\nJust before the Nixon party left for the airport, Nixon friend and journalist Bert Andrews managed to reach him by phone. Andrews told the senator that he should go to Wheeling; that public reaction had already foreordained the outcome. He advised Nixon that he should accede to Eisenhower's desire to make the inevitable decision in his own way, advice Nixon acknowledged \"had the ring of truth\". Nonetheless, the Nixon party flew to Missoula.\n\nBy this time, the first wave of what would eventually be more than four million letters, telegrams, postcards, and phone calls had flooded into RNC headquarters and other political offices. While a later study found that only about 7 percent of these communications addressed any substantive issue, they still ran 75 to one in favor of Nixon. Nixon skeptics joined in; both Stassen and Dewey sent congratulatory telegrams. Many letters included contributions to help pay for the cost of the broadcast; the RNC eventually recouped four-fifths of the $75,000 cost. Newspaper switchboards were jammed with calls from people seeking the RNC's address, while Western Union was caught off guard by Nixon's request that listeners wire the RNC, and had no extra help on hand. Checkers herself received enough dog food to last a year, and hundreds of collars, leashes, and toys.\n\nPoliticians generally reacted along party lines, with Senator Mundt stating, \"Nixon's speech is complete vindication against one of the most vicious smears in American history.\" Democratic Senator Clinton Anderson of New Mexico stated, \"I wish he had talked about the 18,000 bucks—not the puppy dog ... Suppose someone sets up a fund to buy my meals. I could say I didn't get one red cent of the money.\"\n\nOn the morning of September 24, Summerfield and Humphreys called Nixon at his Missoula hotel. After securing his agreement to fly to Wheeling if Eisenhower agreed to Chotiner's terms, the two reached Eisenhower and campaign leader New Hampshire Governor Sherman Adams in Portsmouth, Ohio, en route to Wheeling, and briefed them on the conversation with Nixon and on the flood of communications from the public. The general and governor agreed that Nixon could come to Wheeling with the assurance he would remain on the ticket. After making speeches in Missoula and at a stop in Denver, and after Eisenhower made his own speech announcing that his running mate had been the victim of an \"attempted smear\", Nixon arrived in Wheeling late in the day on the 24th. Eisenhower came to the airport to meet the plane, and hurried up the steps to greet the Nixons when the door was opened.\n\nThe candidates waved at the crowd of 3,000 which had come to meet the plane, and rode together, with Nixon in place of honor, to a rally at City Island Stadium as Eisenhower chatted to Nixon as if the crisis had never occurred. At the stadium, Eisenhower introduced Nixon as a \"colleague\" who had been subject to \"a vicious and unprincipled attack\" but who had \"vindicated himself\" and who \"stood higher than ever before\". The presidential candidate finished by reading two telegrams, one from Nixon's mother assuring the general of her son's integrity, and the second from Summerfield stating that the RNC had voted unanimously to retain Nixon on the ticket. Nixon then spoke, telling the crowd that this was one of two moments when he was most proud to be an American; the other had been at the victory parade in New York in 1945, when he had seen General Eisenhower go by. He called the Wheeling rally \"the greatest moment of my life\".\n\nEditorial reaction to the address was divided. \"The New York Times\", which had criticized Nixon, and had even run stories with claims that he was under criminal investigation for the Fund, praised Nixon's \"composure and assurance\". The \"New York Journal American\" gushed, \"He was in our opinion, simply magnificent. We know of no other way to say it.\" The \"Pittsburgh Press\" called the address \"an extraordinary speech\". The \"Mobile Register\" stated that the Fund crisis \"confronted [Nixon] with an unsought opportunity which he made the most of.\"\n\nHowever, some newspapers disagreed. The \"Baltimore Sun\" noted that Nixon \"did not deal in any way with the underlying question of propriety\", while the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" called the address \"a carefully contrived soap opera\". Columnist Walter Lippmann called the wave of support for Nixon \"disturbing ... with all the magnification of modern electronics, simply mob law\"; discussing the speech with a dinner guest, he said, \"That must be the most demeaning experience my country has ever had to bear.\" Columnist Thomas Stokes criticized Eisenhower for equivocating on the question of his running mate until \"the young man himself—the accused—had to step in and take over. And how he took over!\" Through his presidency, Eisenhower would continue to be accused of being indecisive.\n\nNixon refused to answer further questions about the Fund, and attention turned to Stevenson's fund, especially as its details became clear. Governor Stevenson's fund, which proved to total $146,000, had been used for such expenditures as Christmas gifts to reporters, dues for private clubs, and to hire an orchestra for a dance his son was hosting. Taking a leaf from Nixon's book, the Democrats refused to answer questions about the governor's fund. Both parties were eager to bury the matter, and the story died.\n\nWith \"The New York Times\" finding that Nixon's performance had given the Republican ticket \"a shot in the arm\", Eisenhower and Nixon swept to victory in November, with the Republicans narrowly taking both Houses of Congress. According to Nixon biographer Conrad Black, the speech earned Nixon supporters throughout Middle America which he would keep through the rest of his life, and who would continue to defend him after his death. Critics, however, would later see the address as the \"ultimate expression\" of the controversial politician's \"phoniness.\" Nixon biographer Stephen Ambrose stated that part of the audience considered the address \"one of the most sickening, disgusting, maudlin performances ever experienced.\" In their analysis of the speech published just before Nixon's election as president in 1968, Robert S. Cathcart and Edward A. Schwarz suggested that while Nixon \"met the accusation head-on\nand accomplished his immediate goals successfully, he ultimately created an image which led to a decline in his political career.\"\n\nThe address was an unprecedented demonstration of the power of television to galvanize large segments of the American people to act in a political campaign. However, the onslaught of negative media attention leading up to the address \"left its scars\" on Nixon, and the future president never returned to the easy relationship with the press that he had enjoyed during his congressional career. His oft-stated view that the media was the enemy came to play a part in his downfall.\nNixon celebrated the anniversary of the speech each year. The future president disliked the fact that the address soon became popularly known as the \"Checkers speech.\" In his 1962 book, \"Six Crises\" (the Fund crisis being one of the six), he would object to the term, \"as though the mention of my dog was the only thing that saved my political career.\" Nixon preferred to call the address \"the Fund speech,\" and made it required reading for his speechwriters. As time passed, the Checkers speech became denigrated, and Nixon biographer Earl Mazo suggested that much of the attitude of \"I don't like Nixon, but I don't know why,\" which contributed to the failure of his 1960 presidential run, can be traced to the Checkers speech. Other commentators suggested that had he not made the Checkers speech, Nixon might have won in 1960. Nixon retorted that without the Checkers speech, he would not have been around to run in 1960.\n\nCheckers died in 1964 and was buried in Wantagh, New York, at Long Island's Bide-A-Wee Pet Cemetery. William Safire has described the adoption of \"Checkers speech\" as an idiom, used to refer to any emotionally charged speech by a politician.\n\nDespite the many criticisms of the speech in later years, Hal Bochin (who wrote a book about Nixon's rhetoric) suggests that Nixon succeeded at the time because of his use of narrative, spinning a story which resonated with the public:\n\n\nExplanatory notes\n\nCitations\n\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1481494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1481494", "title": "Confederate Ireland", "text": "Confederate Ireland\n\nConfederate Ireland or the Union of the Irish () refers to the period of Irish self-government between 1642 and 1649, during the Eleven Years' War. During this time, two-thirds of Ireland was governed by the Irish Catholic Confederation, also known as the Confederation of Kilkenny because it was based in Kilkenny. It was formed by Irish Catholic nobles, clergy and military leaders after the Irish Rebellion of 1641. The Confederation had what were effectively a parliament (called the General Assembly), an executive (called the Supreme Council), and a military. It pledged allegiance to Charles I.\n\nThe remaining Protestant-controlled enclaves in Ulster, Munster and Leinster were held by armies loyal to the royalists, parliamentarians or Scottish Covenanters. Throughout its existence, the Confederation waged war against the parliamentarians. In 1648, it allied itself with the royalists. However, in 1649 a parliamentarian army under Oliver Cromwell invaded Ireland. It defeated the Confederates and royalists and brought the Confederation to an end.\n\nThe Irish Catholic Confederation was formed in the aftermath of the 1641 rebellion, both to control the popular uprising and to organise an Irish Catholic war effort against the remaining English and Scottish armies in Ireland. It was hoped that by doing this, the Irish Catholics could hold off an English or Scottish re-conquest of the country.\n\nThe initiative for the Confederation came from a Catholic bishop, Nicholas French, and a lawyer named Nicholas Plunkett. They put forth their proposals for a government to Irish Catholic nobles such as Viscount Gormanston, Viscount Mountgarret and Viscount Muskerry. These men would commit their own armed forces to the Confederation and persuaded other rebels to join it. The declared aims of the Confederates were similar to those of Sir Phelim O'Neill, the leader of the early stages of the rebellion in Ulster, who issued the Proclamation of Dungannon in October 1641.\n\nOn 17 March 1642 these nobles signed the \"Catholic Remonstrance\" issued at Trim, County Meath that was addressed to King Charles I. On 22 March, at a synod in nearby Kells chaired by Hugh O'Reilly, Archbishop of Armagh, a majority of the Catholic bishops proclaimed that the rebellion was a just war.\nOn 10 May 1642, Ireland's Catholic clergy held a synod at Kilkenny. Present were the Archbishops of Armagh, Cashel and Tuam, eleven bishops or their representatives, and other dignitaries. They drafted the Confederate Oath of Association and called on all Catholics in Ireland to take the oath. Those who took the oath swore allegiance to Charles I and vowed to obey all orders and decrees made by the \"Supreme Council of the Confederate Catholics\". The rebels henceforth became known as Confederates. The synod re-affirmed that the rebellion was a \"just war\". It called for the creation of a council (made up of clergy and nobility) for each province, which would be overseen by a national council for the whole island. It vowed to punish misdeeds by Confederate soldiers and to excommunicate any Catholic who fights against the Confederation. The synod sent agents to France, Spain and Italy to gain support, gather funds and weapons, and recruit Irishmen serving in foreign armies. Lord Mountgarret was appointed president of the Confederate Supreme Council, and a General Assembly was fixed for October that year.\n\nThe first Confederate General Assembly was held in Kilkenny on 24 October 1642, where it set up a provisional government. The Assembly was a parliament in all but name. Present at the first Assembly were 14 Lords Temporal and 11 Lords Spiritual from the Parliament of Ireland, along with 226 commoners. The Confederate's constitution was written by a Galway lawyer named Patrick D'Arcy. The Assembly resolved that each county should have a council, overseen by a provincial council made up of two representatives from each county council. The Assembly agreed orders \"to be observed as the model of their government\".\n\nThe Assembly elected an executive known as the Supreme Council. The first Supreme Council was elected on or about 14 November. It consisted of 24 members, 12 of whom were to abide always in Kilkenny or wherever else they deemed fitting.\n\nThe members of the first Supreme Council were as follows:\nJames Tuchet, 3rd Earl of Castlehaven, representing the Crown, was the final member of the Supreme Council.\n\nThe Supreme Council would have power over all military generals, military officers and civil magistrates. Its first act was to name the generals who were to command Confederate forces: Owen Roe O'Neill was to command the Ulster forces, Thomas Preston the Leinster forces, Garret Barry the Munster forces and John Burke the Connacht forces. Ulick Burke, 1st Marquess of Clanricarde was named head general, as they thought he would sooner or later join the Confederates. The Supreme Council issued an order to raise £30,000 and a levy of 31,700 men in Leinster who were to be trained at once.\n\nThe Supreme Council also made its own seal, described as follows: \"'Twas circular, and in its centre was a large cross, the base of which rested on a flaming heart, while its apex was overlapped by the wings of a dove. On the left of the cross was the harp , and on the right the crown.\" The motto on the seal was \"Pro Deo, Rege, et Patria, Hiberni Unanimes\" (\"For God, King and Fatherland, Ireland is United\").\n\nA National Treasury, a mint for making coins, and a press for printing proclamations were set up in Kilkenny. This first General Assembly sat until 9 January 1643.\n\nHowever, the Confederate Catholic Association of Ireland never actually claimed to be an independent government, because (in the context of the Wars of the Three Kingdoms) they professed to be Royalists, loyal to Charles I. Since only the King could legally call a Parliament, the Confederate General Assembly never claimed to be a Parliament either, although it acted like one. In negotiations with the Royalists, the Confederates demanded that all concessions made to them would be ratified in a post war Parliament of Ireland, which would have resembled the Confederate General Assembly including some Protestant Royalists.\n\nThe Confederates' stated objective was to reach an agreement with the King. The ambitions were: full rights for Catholics in Ireland, toleration of the Catholic religion, and self-government for Ireland. Their campaign for religious equality in 1628–34 had been promised but then shelved by Charles until 1641.\n\nThe members of the Supreme Council were predominantly of Hiberno-Norman descent and were distrusted by many of the Gaelic Irish, who felt they were too moderate in their demands. The more radical Confederates pressed for a reversal of the plantations and the establishment of Catholicism as state religion in Ireland.\n\nThe Confederates believed that their aspirations were best served by alliance with the royalist cause and therefore made supporting the King a central part of their strategy. This was because some English MPs and Scottish Covenanters had threatened before the war to invade Ireland and destroy the Catholic religion and Irish land-owning class, but the threat was never official policy. The King, by contrast, had repeatedly promised them some concessions. The difficulty for Charles was that he was horrified at the 1641 rebellion and had signed the Adventurers Act into law in 1642, which proposed confiscating all rebel held lands in Ireland. A new policy of refusing pardon to any Irish rebels had also been agreed in London and Dublin (issuing pardons had been a common method to end Irish conflicts in the previous century). Therefore, his forces remained hostile to the Confederates until 1643, when his military position in England started to weaken. Many of the Confederate gentry stood to lose their land under the Adventurers Act; it galvanised their efforts and they realised that it could only be repealed by taking a loyal stance.\n\nHowever, while the moderate Confederates were anxious to come to an agreement with Charles I and did not press for radical political and religious reforms, others wished to force the King to accept a self-governing Catholic Ireland before they came to terms with him. Failing that, they advocated an independent alliance with France or Spain.\n\nIn September 1643, the Confederates negotiated a \"cessation of arms\" (or ceasefire), with James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde, the senior general of the royalist army in Ireland. It was signed at Jigginstown, near Naas. This meant that hostilities ceased between the Confederates and Ormonde's royalist army based in Dublin. However, the English garrison in Cork (which was commanded by Murrough O'Brien, 1st Earl of Inchiquin, a rare Gaelic Irish Protestant) objected to the ceasefire and mutinied, and he declared their allegiance to the English Long Parliament. The Scottish Covenanters had also landed an army in Ulster in 1642, which remained hostile to the Confederates and to the king – as did the \"Lagan army\" of the British settlers living in Ulster.\n\nThe Jacobite historian Thomas Carte mentioned the financial terms of the Cessation, whereby the Confederates undertook to pay Ormonde £30,000 in stages up to May 1644, half in cash and half in live cattle.\n\nIn 1644 the Confederates sent around 1,500 men under Alasdair MacColla to Scotland to support the royalists there under James Graham, 1st Marquess of Montrose against the Covenanters, sparking a Civil War – their only intervention on the Royalist side in the civil wars in Great Britain.\n\nThe Confederates received modest subsidies from the monarchies of France and Spain, who wanted to recruit troops in Ireland but their main continental support came from the Papacy. Pope Urban VIII sent Pierfrancesco Scarampi to liaise with and help the Confederates' Supreme Council in 1643. Pope Innocent X strongly supported Confederate Ireland, over the objections of Cardinal Mazarin and the Queen, Henrietta Maria, who had moved to Paris in 1644. Innocent received the Confederation's envoy in February 1645 and resolved to send a nuncio extraordinary to Ireland, Giovanni Battista Rinuccini, archbishop of Fermo, who embarked from La Rochelle with the Confederacy's secretary, Richard Bellings. He took with him a large quantity of arms and military supplies and a very large sum of money. These supplies meant that Rinuccini had a big influence on the Confederates' internal politics and he was backed by the more militant Confederates such as Owen Roe O'Neill. At Kilkenny Rinuccini was received with great honours, asserting that the object of his mission was to sustain the King, but above all to help the Catholic people of Ireland in securing the free and public exercise of the Catholic religion, and the restoration of the churches and church property, but not any former monastic property.\n\nThe Supreme Council put great hope in a secret treaty they had concluded with Edward Somerset, 2nd Marquess of Worcester, under his new title of Earl of Glamorgan, on the King's behalf, which promised further concessions to Irish Catholics in the future. Being a very wealthy English Catholic royalist, Glamorgan was sent to Ireland in late June 1645 with secret orders from Charles to agree to the Confederates' demands in return for an Irish Catholic army that would fight for the King in England. The plan would be anathema to most English Protestants at the time. A copy of Glamorgan's secret orders was publicised by the Long Parliament, and to preserve his support in Protestant England the King had to deny his link and even proclaimed Glamorgan as a traitor. To deter the use of Confederate Irish soldiers in England the Long Parliament passed the Ordinance of no quarter to the Irish in October 1644.\n\nThe nuncio considered himself the virtual head of the Confederate Catholic party in Ireland. In 1646 the Supreme Council of the Confederates had come to an agreement with Ormonde, signed on 28 March 1646. Under its terms Catholics would be allowed to serve in public office and to found schools; there were also verbal promises of future concessions on religious toleration. There was an amnesty for acts committed in the Rebellion of 1641 and a guarantee against further seizure of Irish Catholic rebels' land by acts of attainder.\n\nHowever, there was no reversal of Poynings' Law, which meant that any legislation due to be presented to the Parliament of Ireland must first be approved by the English Privy Council, no reversal of the Protestant majority in the Irish House of Commons and no reversal of the main plantations, or colonisation, in Ulster and Munster. Moreover, regarding the religious articles of the treaty, all churches taken over by Catholics in the war would have to be returned to Protestant hands and the public practice of Catholicism was not guaranteed.\n\nIn return for the concessions that were made Irish troops would be sent to England to fight for the royalists in the English Civil War. However, the terms agreed were not acceptable to either the Catholic clergy, the Irish military commanders – notably Owen Roe O'Neill and Thomas Preston – or the majority of the General Assembly. Nor was the papal nuncio Rinuccini party to the treaty, which left untouched the objects of his mission; he had induced nine of the Irish bishops to sign a protest against any arrangement with Ormonde or the king that would not guarantee the maintenance of the Catholic religion.\n\nMany believed the Supreme Council were unreliable, since many of them were related to Ormonde or otherwise bound to him. Besides, it was pointed out that the English Civil War had already been decided in the English Parliament's favour and that sending Irish troops to the royalists would be a futile sacrifice. On the other hand, many felt after O'Neill's Ulster army defeated the Scots at the battle of Benburb in June 1646 that the Confederates were in a position to re-conquer all of Ireland. Furthermore, those who opposed the peace were backed, both spiritually and financially, by Rinuccini, who threatened to excommunicate the \"peace party\". The Supreme Council were arrested and the General Assembly voted to reject the deal.\n\nAfter the Confederates rejected the peace deal, Ormonde handed Dublin over to a parliamentarian army under Michael Jones. The Confederates now tried to eliminate the remaining parliamentarian outposts in Dublin and Cork, but in 1647 suffered a series of military disasters. First, Thomas Preston's Leinster army was destroyed by Jones's parliamentarians at the Battle of Dungan's Hill in County Meath. Then, less than three months later, the Confederates' Munster army met a similar fate at the hands of Inchiquin's parliamentarian forces at the battle of Knocknanauss.\n\nThese setbacks made most Confederates much more eager to come to reach an agreement with the royalists and negotiations were re-opened. The Supreme Council received generous terms from Charles I and Ormonde, including toleration of the Catholic religion, a commitment to repealing Poyning's Law (and therefore to Irish self-government), recognition of lands taken by Irish Catholics during the war, and a commitment to a partial reversal of the Plantation of Ulster. In addition, there was to be an Act of Oblivion, or amnesty for all acts committed during the 1641 rebellion and Confederate wars – in particular the killings of British Protestant settlers in 1641 – combined with no disbanding of the Confederate armies.\n\nHowever Charles granted these terms only out of desperation and later repudiated them. Under the terms of the agreement, the Confederation was to dissolve itself, place its troops under royalist commanders and accept English royalist troops. Inchiquin also defected from the Parliament and rejoined the royalists in Ireland.\n\nHowever, many of the Irish Catholics continued to reject a deal with the royalists. Owen Roe O'Neill refused to join the new royalist alliance and fought a brief internal civil war with the royalists and Confederates in the summer of 1648. So alienated was O'Neill by what he considered to be a betrayal of Catholic war aims that he tried to make a separate peace with the English Parliament and was for a short time effectively an ally of the English parliamentary armies in Ireland. This was disastrous for the wider aims of the Confederacy, as it coincided with the outbreak of the second civil war in England. The Papal Nuncio, Rinuccini, endeavoured to uphold Owen Roe O'Neill by excommunicating all who in May 1648 took part in the Inchiquin Truce with the Royalists; but he could not get the Irish Catholic Bishops to agree on the matter. On 23 February 1649, he embarked at Galway, in his own frigate, to return to Rome.\n\nIt is often argued that this split within the Confederate ranks represented a split between Gaelic Irish and Old English. It is suggested that a particular reason for this was that Gaelic Irish had lost much land and power since the English conquest of Ireland and hence had become radical in their demands. However, there were members of both ethnicities on each side. For example, Phelim O'Neill, the Gaelic Irish instigator of the Rebellion of 1641, sided with the moderates, whereas the predominantly Old English south Wexford area rejected the peace. The Catholic clergy were also split over the issue.\n\nThe real significance of the split was between those landed gentry who were prepared to compromise with the royalists as long as their lands and civil rights were guaranteed, and those, such as Owen Roe O'Neill, who wanted to completely overturn the English presence in Ireland. They wanted an independent, Catholic Ireland, with the English and Scottish settlers expelled permanently. Many of the militants were most concerned with recovering ancestral lands their families had lost in the plantations. After inconclusive skirmishing with the Confederates, Owen Roe O'Neill retreated to Ulster and did not rejoin his former comrades until Cromwell's invasion of 1649. This infighting fatally hampered the preparations of the Confederate-royalist alliance to repel the invasion of parliamentarian New Model Army.\n\nOliver Cromwell invaded Ireland in 1649 to crush the new alliance of Irish Confederates and royalists. The Cromwellian conquest of Ireland was the bloodiest warfare that had ever occurred in the country and was accompanied by plague and famine. Kilkenny fell after a short siege in 1650. It ended in total defeat for the Irish Catholics and royalists. The pre-war Irish Catholic land-owning class was all but destroyed in this period, as were the institutions of the Roman Catholic Church. Most of the senior members of the Confederation spent the Cromwellian period in exile in France, with the English Royalist Court. After the Restoration, those Confederates who had promoted alliance with the Royalists found themselves in favour and on average recovered about a third of their lands. However, those who remained in Ireland throughout the Interregnum generally had their land confiscated, with prisoners of war executed or transported to penal colonies.\n\nConfederate Ireland was arguably the only sustained attempt at Catholic Irish self-government between 1558 and the foundation of Irish Free State in 1922. Its style of parliament was similar to the landed oligarchy Parliament of Ireland established by the Normans in 1297, but it was not based on a democratic vote. Given their large notional power base, the Confederates ultimately failed to manage and reorganise Ireland so as to defend the interests of Irish Catholics. The Irish Confederate Wars and the ensuing Cromwellian conquest of Ireland (1649–53) caused massive loss of life and ended with the confiscation of almost all Irish Catholic owned land in the 1650s, though much was re-granted in the 1660s. The end of the period cemented the English colonisation of Ireland in the so-called Cromwellian Settlement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449305", "title": "Convergence and Union", "text": "Convergence and Union\n\nConvergence and Union (, CiU; ) was a Catalan nationalist electoral alliance in Catalonia, Spain. It was a federation of two constituent parties, the larger Democratic Convergence of Catalonia (CDC) and its smaller counterpart, the Democratic Union of Catalonia (UDC). It was dissolved on 17 June 2015.\n\nCiU was a Catalan nationalist coalition. It was usually seen as a moderate nationalist party in Spain, although a significant part of its membership had shifted to open Catalan independentism in recent years and in 2014 demonstrated its intention to hold a referendum on Catalan independence. There is some debate as to whether the coalition was conservative or centrist. Liberal tendencies dominate the larger CDC, while the smaller UDC is a Christian democratic party. As for its position in the nationalist debate, it was deliberately ambiguous so as to appeal to the broadest spectrum possible, from voters who seek full independence from Spain to those who are generally satisfied with the present self-government status. In general, the CDC tends to be more supportive of Catalan sovereignty, while the UDC is considered closer to traditional Catalan autonomism and more nuanced nationalism. The electoral manifesto for the elections in 2012 states that \"we want to build a wide social majority so that Catalonia can have its own State in the European frame, because Catalonia has the will to become a normal country among world's countries and nations\".\n\nIn the most recent regional elections, held on 25 September 2012, CiU won 30.71% of the vote. It lost 12 seats in the Catalan Parliament, bringing them to a total of 50 deputies. While they have more than twice as many deputies as any other party, they were left 18 seats short of a majority in the 135-member body. After the election, they entered into coalition with the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC). \"El Periódico de Catalunya\" reported in August 2013 that the coalition may break apart due to fractions within the union about Catalan independence, with UDC opposing secessionism.\n\nOn 18 June 2015 CDC spokespersons declared the CiU federation \"finished\", albeit amenable to an \"amicable\" separation. This occurred after an ultimatum had been issued by President Mas to UDC, due to their diverging positions on the Catalan independence process.\n\nCiU used to defend the notion of Catalonia as a nation within Spain, striving for the highest possible level of autonomy for Catalonia. However, it has recently become a pro-secession party.\n\nCiU is generally considered a Catalan nationalist party; this is also the term it uses to describe itself. Both the Spanish and Catalan media perceive it as a moderate nationalist force. However, its liberal fraction (CDC) has a relatively strong current which advocates Catalan independence from Spain and which has grown stronger after 2006. Many high ranking exponents of the Democratic Convergence define CiU as an independentist political force. The party's president Artur Mas has stated he would vote in favour of Catalan independence in a theoretical referendum of independence, but he added this would not be his official policy if elected as President of Catalonia.\n\nOn the other hand, the Christian democratic part of the coalition, the Democratic Union of Catalonia, is less favourable to the idea of an independent Catalonia. Nevertheless, several prominent members of the Democratic Union have also supported independence, especially since the late 2000s. However, the supporters of independence within the Democratic Union are a minority with much less influence than their counterparts in the Democratic Convergence.\n\nAt the Catalan level, CiU ruled the autonomous Catalan government during the 1980s until 2003 for 23 consecutive years led by Jordi Pujol (CDC). Pujol was succeeded in the party leadership by Artur Mas (CDC), while Unió's leader (second at the CiU level) is Josep Antoni Duran i Lleida. It then served in opposition to a tripartite centre-left government of the Socialists' Party of Catalonia (PSC), the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) and the Initiative for Catalonia Greens (ICV) until November 2010, when it regained power (but lacking an overall majority, still needing a coalition partner).\n\nThe party won 10 seats in the Congress of Deputies at the March 2008 elections.\n\nCiU supported changes to the Catalan Statute of Autonomy to further increase Catalonia's autonomy. It is currently the most voted party at regional elections in Catalonia, but in 2003 lost its absolute majority and is the main opposition party at the Catalan autonomous level, having been replaced in the government by a centre-left tripartite coalition formed in 2003 and re-formed after the 2006 Catalan regional elections, which were called due to divisions in the coalition.\n\nOn Sunday 28 November 2010 (28-N) CiU regained control of the regional parliament after seven years in opposition, winning about 38 per cent of the popular vote, earning 62 seats out of the total 135. Its platform was broadly centrist, and somewhat ambiguous about independence from Spain.\n\nIn the 2010 elections the turnout was just above 60%, and the Socialists' Party of Catalonia were considered the biggest losers, holding only 28 seats of their former 37. All other parties lost support, as well, except the liberal-conservative People's Party of Catalonia, which increased its support by 1.5%, and the liberal Citizens' Party which maintained their position.\n\nOn Sunday 25 November 2012 CiU maintained its control of the regional parliament by winning approximately 30 per cent of the popular vote and earning 50 seats of the total 135. This represents a drop in voter support since the 2010 election, with voter turn-out for the 2012 election at approximately 70%, or the highest since 1998. It is also the lowest percentage of the vote the coalition has scored since its formation in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "56856929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56856929", "title": "Cristina Luca Boico", "text": "Cristina Luca Boico\n\nCristina Luca Boico (8 August 1916-16 April 2002) was a Romanian communist activist. After going into exile in France, she joined the French Resistance and worked in the intelligence service. At the end of the war, she returned to Romania and worked as the director of the Ministry of Education and numerous other governmental posts, until she was purged in 1952. Working as an editor for the Scientific Publishing House she later taught at the Politehnica University of Bucharest. In 1987, she left Romania to visit her children in Paris, refusing to return. For the remainder of her life, she gave lectures and published memoirs about the evolution of communism.\n\nBianca Marcusohn was born on 8 August 1916 in Botoșani, Romania to Luisa (née Segal) and Isidor Marcusohn. Her family, which included an older sister, Hermina, belonged to the assimilated Jewish middle-class. After completing her secondary education at Carmen Sylva High School in Botoşani, Marcusohn moved to Bucharest to undertake medical studies. She joined the Students' Democratic Front, an organization aligned with the Romanian Communist Party and wrote articles for journals on the international anti-fascist movement. She was a friend of Lucien Goldmann and was influenced by his ideas. In 1937, after being expelled for her political activities, Marcusohn left Romania to continue her studies at the Sorbonne. At the approach of the Nazi's the university was closed and per a posted notice, she was allowed to graduate by taking her final tests at any university offering them. Marcusohn made her way to Toulouse, where she completed her examinations and received her certificate in Natural Sciences in June 1940.\n\nMarcusohn began working in the marine biology laboratory of Édouard Chatton in Banyuls-sur-Mer, but by September had decided to return to Paris. Once there, she contacted the Romanian affiliates of the French Communist Party and reconnected with the communist movement. Taking in mathematics students, she worked as a tutor and was eventually offered a post with to translate journal articles to French for researchers at the \"Caisse nationale de la recherche scientifique\", forerunner to the French National Center for Scientific Research. She participated in the 1940 demonstrations to protest the arrest of Paul Langevin and was arrested but quickly released.\n\nIn 1941, Marcusohn joined the Organisation Spéciale—Main-d'Œuvre Immigrée (OS-MOI), the armed group of the Immigrant Labor Force, using the name Monique as a disguise. In 1942 when the OS-MOI merged with two other groups to form the Francs-Tireurs et Partisans—Main-d'Œuvre Immigrée (FTP-MOI), Marcusohn changed her name again, to Cristina Luca, and became and intelligence officer in the resistance. With the knowledge of her professors, Luca funneled stolen chemicals from the biology laboratory at the Sorbonne to the partisans. She lost her translating job in 1942 and went to work full time, spying for the FTP-MOI. In 1944, she was assigned to combat duty for the entire north of France and participated in several partisan attacks.\n\nAt the end of the war, Luca returned to Romania in March 1945. Between 1945 and 1947, she worked in the Ministry of Information and then went to Belgrade, Yugoslavia, where she worked at the Romanian embassy as a press-attaché for a year. Because of the Tito–Stalin Split, Luca was recalled to Romania and began working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in charge of the press department. In 1949, she married Mihail Boico (born Rosner), a military officer in command of troops on the border. Shortly after the marriage, Stalin began targeting veterans of the Spanish Civil War and those who had been involved in the French Resistance, placing both Boico and her husband, who was known as Bibi, under suspicion. Boico was dismissed from her job in June, 1952 and Bibi was purged from his position in the Interior Ministry that same fall. Boico was assigned to a minor position in the Grigore Antipa National Museum of Natural History.\n\nDisillusioned by the party, after 1956, Boico no longer participated in political activities, concentrating instead on her work in history and science. In the 1960s, she began working as the editor of the Scientific Publishing House and later taught courses on Marxism at the Politehnica University of Bucharest. Publishing a few book introductions and journal articles, she increasingly found herself at odds with the regime of Nicolae Ceaușescu. In 1987, she left Romania to visit her children in Paris and chose not to return. She began publishing again in France and wrote such works as \"Les Hommes qui ont porté Ceaușescu au pouvoir\", which has been called by Vladimir Tismăneanu \"the most comprehensive and illuminating analysis\" of the rise of Ceaușescu and Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej to the leadership of the Romanian Communist Party.\n\nBoico died on 17 August 2002 in Paris. In 2014, a French miniseries, \"Résistance\", was released about the young people involved in the French Resistance during the war. One of the characters in the series was based on Boico's experiences and was played by Romanian actress Cristina Flutur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2483814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483814", "title": "Disaggregated sovereignty", "text": "Disaggregated sovereignty\n\nDisaggregated sovereignty refers to the need for broad strategic cooperation on critical issues requiring the ceding of sovereignty from several sovereign entities to new institutions without creating a centralized authority or \"government.\"\nSome people argue that this is the de facto situation of global governance and actually more desirable than the creation of a single world government. \n\nA common and imperfect analogy is often made to the European Union as an example of how states can cede sovereignty to create regional governance. Traditional concepts of sovereignty emphasize separation into territorially independent groups. Dissagregated sovereignty focuses on the mutual obligation and positive capacity to participate collectively through multiple institutions to address global and regional problems.\n"}
{"id": "1008130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008130", "title": "Disputed status of Gibraltar", "text": "Disputed status of Gibraltar\n\nGibraltar, a British Overseas Territory, located at the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula, is the subject of an irredentist territorial claim by Spain. It was captured in 1704 during the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–1714). The Spanish Crown formally ceded the territory in perpetuity to the British Crown in 1713, under of the Treaty of Utrecht. Spain later attempted to recapture the territory during the thirteenth siege (1727) and the Great siege (1779–1783). British sovereignty over Gibraltar was confirmed in later treaties signed in Seville (1729) and the Treaty of Paris (1783).\n\nReclamation of the territory became government policy under the regime of the dictator Francisco Franco and has remained in place under successive governments following the Spanish transition to democracy. The Gibraltarians themselves reject any such claim and no political party or pressure group in Gibraltar supports union with Spain. In a referendum in 2002 the people of Gibraltar rejected a joint sovereignty proposal on which Spain and the United Kingdom were said to have reached \"broad agreement\". The British Government has stated that it would \"never ... enter into an agreement on sovereignty without the agreement of the Government of Gibraltar and their people\". The British Government now refuses to discuss sovereignty without the consent of the Gibraltarians.\n\nIn 2000, a political declaration of unity was signed by the members of the Gibraltar Parliament; it stated \"In essence the declaration stated that the people of Gibraltar will never compromise, give up or trade their sovereignty or their right to self-determination; that Gibraltar wants good, neighbourly, European relations with Spain; and that Gibraltar belongs to the people of Gibraltar and is neither Spain's to claim or Britain's to give away.\"\n\nSpain insists on a bilateral agreement with the UK over sovereignty, whereas the UK will only discuss sovereignty if Gibraltar is included in the discussions.\n\nThe United Nations understanding of the positions of each party is set out in their 2016 report. The UN considers Gibraltar a Non-Self-Governing Territory.\n\nGibraltar was captured in 1704 by a force led by Admiral Sir George Rooke representing the Grand Alliance on behalf of the Archduke Charles, pretender to the Spanish Throne. After the battle, almost all the original inhabitants decided to leave to the surrounding areas of Campo de Gibraltar. Spanish attempts to regain the territory in the Twelfth Siege of Gibraltar failed, and it was eventually ceded to the Kingdom of Great Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht as part of the settlement of the War of the Spanish Succession. In that treaty, Spain ceded to Great Britain \"the full and entire propriety of the town and castle of Gibraltar, together with the port, fortifications, and forts thereunto belonging ... for ever, without any exception or impediment whatsoever.\"\n\nShould the British Crown ever wish to relinquish Gibraltar, a reversion clause holds that the territory would first be offered to Spain, \"And in case it shall hereafter seem meet to the Crown of Great Britain to grant, sell or by any means to alienate therefrom the propriety of the said town of Gibraltar, it is hereby agreed and concluded that the preference of having the sale shall always be given to the Crown of Spain before any others.\"\n\nFurthermore, the Treaty stipulates \"that the above-named propriety be yielded to Great Britain \"without any territorial jurisdiction\", and without any open communication by land with the country round about\" (although there is dispute over whether this disclaims territorial jurisdiction over Gibraltar, or over the \"country round about\") and that no overland trade between Gibraltar and Spain is to take place, except for emergency provisions in the case that Gibraltar is unable to be resupplied by sea. The British Government and the Government of Gibraltar today argue that the membership of both Gibraltar and Spain in the European Union (EU) — Gibraltar was included as a Special member state territory when the United Kingdom joined the EU in 1973; Spain joined the EU in 1986 — supersedes such restrictions as the EU is committed to free movement of goods and services.\n\nThe United Nations February 2016 report sets out the differing points of view of the various parties with regard to Gibraltar which the United Nations considers to be a Non-Self-Governing Territory administered by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. \n\nGibraltar was given the \"Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006\" by Britain which established a form of government whereby the Governor of Gibraltar is responsible for the conduct of external affairs, defence, internal security and for certain appointments to public office, and the Government of Gibraltar is made responsible for all other matters. The UK believes that as an independent territory, recognised by the United Nations Gibraltar enjoys the individual and collective rights that are set out in the 2006 constitution and the right of self-determination. Spain disputes the legality of the constitution and claims that it does not change the position of Gibraltar as a colony of the UK with only the UK empowered to discuss Gibraltar matters on the international scene.\n\nThe territorial government of Gibraltar, based on law in the 2006 constitution, collects its own taxes and budgets its costs and capital expenditure, with maximum personal tax rates of 28% and company tax of 10%. Spain notes that the European Commission is investigating the tax regime of Gibraltar and that Spain considers Gibraltar a tax haven. The UK believes Gibraltar meets all EU laws regarding the issues of anti-money-laundering, direct taxation and financial supervision.\n\nGibraltar has a robust financial regulation system with anti-tax-evasion agreements including exchange of tax information with 79 countries including all the EU nations, except Spain which has not responded. The UK asked for Gibraltar to be subject to an EU evaluation of its anti-money-laundering controls. Spain recalls that crimes of tobacco smuggling and money-laundering from Gibraltar had been noted in an EU anti fraud report in 2014.\n\nCrossing the land border between Gibraltar and Spain is subject to checks. Spain stresses that checks are not politically motivated, it being necessary to ensure strict compliance with EU border regulations to counter the common illicit trafficking issues and that Spain complies with the recommendations from the EU to improve the border crossing. The location of the checkpoint does not conform to the border recognised by Spain. The airport is a military area where civilian aircraft are permitted to operate. Spain claims the airfield is occupied illegally by the UK. The UK claims its sovereignty extends over the isthmus area on which the airfield is built. The UK also claims a three-mile limit in the territorial waters around Gibraltar whereas Spain claims maritime rights to all areas except inside the ports on Gibraltar. UK claimed incursions of Spanish vessels into Gibraltar territorial waters being considered by Spain to be routine activity of Spanish ships in their own waters.\n\nIn 2004 a system of trilateral discussion began with Spain, the UK and Gibraltar participating. The discussions ended in 2010 with the UK and Gibraltar asking for their continuance from 2012 to 2014. Spain stating they believed the forum no longer existed and that only \"ad hoc\" discussions on local issues should take place with Campo de Gibraltar also included.\n\nIn 2015 the UK reaffirmed its claim to sovereignty, that Gibraltar had its right to self-determination set out in the 2006 constitution and that the UK would not enter into any sovereignty discussions unless Gibraltar agreed and further that the UK was committed to safeguarding Gibraltar, its people and its economy. The UK claimed sovereignty over land extended over the sea to a limit of three miles or to the median line under the UN convention on the Law of the Sea. Any discussion must include Gibraltar as their constitution gave them sole powers over many issues.\n\nGibraltar claimed it remained the last colony in Europe only because the Government of Spain insisted the inalienable principle of self-determination should not apply to Gibraltarians, with Spain blocking the annual request for Gibraltar to be removed from the UN list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. The Gibraltarian government asserts that Gibraltar has been effectively decolonised. \nSpain says that the UK was refusing to negotiate on sovereignty, that the land occupied by the UK was greater than that ceded by the Treaty of Utrecht and that it was the restoration of Spanish territorial integrity that was the key, not self-determination. The 2006 constitution had not changed the international status of Gibraltar, with the local authorities having no right to interfere in the negotiations about the illegal occupation of Spanish territory. Spain would not agree to any situation that was detrimental to people in the area or to the finances of Spain or the EU. The border checks were EU regulated and designed to stop illegal trafficking of tobacco that was costing the region tax revenue. Spain was happy to discuss sovereignty issues with the UK and for four way \"ad hoc\" discussion on local issues. \n\nThe traditional Spanish position is based on territorial integrity, as per (1960), which according to Spain, complements and constrains the right to self-determination:\n\n\"Any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and the territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.\"\nDuring the 1960s, the UN General Assembly passed five resolutions on the issue (2231 (XXI), \"Question of Gibraltar\" and 2353 (XXII), \"Question of Gibraltar\"). The resolutions on the decolonisation of Gibraltar focused on the \"interests\" and not the \"wishes\" of the Gibraltarians. The latter resolution states that:\nany colonial situation which partially or completely destroys the national unity and territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and especially with paragraph 6 of Resolution 1514 (XV) of the General Assembly [...] Invites the Governments of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to resume without delay the negotiations provided for in General Assembly Resolutions 2070 (XX) and 2231 (XXI), with a view to putting an end to the colonial situation in Gibraltar and to safeguarding the interests of the population.\n\nFrom such a point of view, Gibraltarians are seen as mere \"settlers\" from the United Kingdom and other countries and only their interests, not their wishes (as the right to self-determination would involve), need be safeguarded. The point of view that they were settlers is supported by the fact that following the 1704 capture of Gibraltar by Anglo-Dutch troops, only around 70 out of the original 5,000 Spanish inhabitants chose to remain in Gibraltar. Therefore, Spain has insisted that the Gibraltar dispute is a purely bilateral matter with the United Kingdom and has ignored the role and will of the Gibraltarians.\n\nThe first formal proposal on how to achieve the return of Gibraltar to Spain was made on 18 May 1966 by the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Fernando Castiella. The proposal comprised three clauses:\n\n\nThe proposal was rejected by the British Government and by the Gibraltarians, which overwhelmingly voted to remain under British sovereignty in a referendum held in 1967 (12,138 to 44).\n\nAs a result, the UN General Assembly, during its twenty-third session, adopted resolution 2429 of 1968 (XXIII), denounced the 1967 referendum and requested the United Kingdom not to delay negotiations.\n\nNo further advance for the Spanish claims was achieved for the following forty years. In view of that, the Spanish position seems to have softened, being redirected towards some form of temporary or permanent arrangement to achieve joint sovereignty, which has been proposed by Spain and discussed with the British Government. Such a proposal was tabled by the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Fernando Morán, in 1985. The details of the proposal were not made public, but information released showed an offer on a treaty with the United Kingdom in order to \"re-integrate\" Gibraltar with Spain, while preserving Gibraltarians' way of life. They would keep their British nationality, as well as their existing political and labour rights, self-government and institutions. Morán proposed that a condominium or leaseback arrangement should be agreed, over a 15 or 20-year period. This proposal was not formally rejected by Douglas Hurd, the British Foreign Secretary, until 1993.\n\nIn 1997 a second proposal was made by the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Abel Matutes, foreseeing a hundred-year period of joint sovereignty before a definite transfer to Spain. A similar scheme was provisionally agreed between the Spanish and British governments in the spring of 2002, but this was eventually abandoned, after sustained opposition by the Gibraltarians that included the Gibraltar sovereignty referendum of 2002.\n\nIn his evidence to the UK Parliament Foreign Affairs Committee in 2008, Jim Murphy MP, Minister of State for Europe stated:\n\nThe UK Government will never enter into an agreement on sovereignty without the agreement of the Government of Gibraltar and their people. In fact, we will never even enter into a process without that agreement. The word 'never' sends a substantial and clear commitment and has been used for a purpose. We have delivered that message with confidence to the peoples and the Governments of Gibraltar and Spain. It is a sign of the maturity of our relationship now that that is accepted as the UK's position.\n\nThe British Government has ruled out both the independence of Gibraltar where it refers to the Treaty of Utrecht as, according to the British view, it would require Spanish consent and Gibraltar's integration into the United Kingdom.\n\nThe option of integration was rejected on 26 June 1976, when the British Government issued the Hattersley Memorandum ruling out integration in order to \"avoid innovations which might result in prolongation of the frontier restrictions imposed by Spain.\"\n\nGibraltar argues that the Spanish claims are baseless, pointing to the right to self-determination of all peoples, guaranteed and enshrined by the UN, according to the UN Charter. Its article 1 states that \"The Purposes of the United Nations are ... to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples.\"\n\nTo the same section 2 of states: \"All peoples have the right to self-determination; by virtue of that right they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development.\"\n\nFurthermore, resolution 2231 (XXI) itself recalls and demands implementation of Resolution 1514(XV) (guaranteeing Gibraltar's right to self-determination) and therefore it believes that the Spanish claim for its territorial integrity (which would not be affected by Gibraltar's decolonisation) cannot displace or extinguish the rights of the people of Gibraltar under resolution 1514(XV) or under the Charter. From this point of view, any additional right that Spain could claim by virtue of the \"reversionary\" clause contained in the Treaty of Utrecht is overruled and annulled under article 103 of the UN Charter: \" In the event of a conflict between the obligations of the Members of the United Nations under the present Charter and their obligations under any other international agreement, their obligations under the present Charter shall prevail.\"\nFinally, it is argued that there is in fact no principle in International Law or UN doctrine that can displace the inalienable right to self-determination. In this regard, in 2008, the UN 4th Committee rejected the claim that a dispute over sovereignty affected self-determination, affirming it to be a basic human right.\n\nThe Gibraltar Government has also argued that Gibraltar is a British territory and therefore by definition not an integral part of any other state, implying that Spain's territorial integrity cannot be affected by anything that occurs in Gibraltar: \"Even if integration of a territory was demanded by an interested State it could not be had without ascertaining the freely expressed will of the people, the very sine qua non of all decolonisation.\"\n\nIn a referendum held in Gibraltar in September 2002, Gibraltarian voters rejected even partial Spanish sovereignty.\n\nSpeaking to the UK Parliament Foreign Affairs committee in March 2008 Peter Caruana the Chief Minister of Gibraltar noted:\n\nSpain does not dispute that Gibraltar is properly, in law, British territory. Therefore, this is not disputed land. She has a political claim to the return of Gibraltar sovereignty, but she does not dispute the fact that in proper international law, she ceded sovereignty to Britain in perpetuity and therefore it is undisputed British sovereign territory.\nGibraltarians seem to remain mistrustful of Spain despite improved relations.\n\nSpain insisted that the Gibraltar dispute is a bilateral matter purely between the United Kingdom and Spain. This principle appears to have been reflected in the United Nations resolutions on the decolonisation of Gibraltar in the 1960s, which focused on the \"interests\" of the Gibraltarians. Speaking to the UN C24 in 2006, the Chief Minister of Gibraltar, Peter Caruana, stated that \"It is well known and documented and accepted by all that, since 1988, Gibraltar has rejected the bilateral Brussels Process, and will never be content with it.\"\n\nWith the 2004 return of a centre-left wing government in Spain, a new Spanish position was adopted and, in December 2005, the governments of the UK, Spain and Gibraltar agreed to set up \"a new, trilateral process of dialogue outside the Brussels Process\" with equal participation by the three parties, any decisions or agreements to be agreed by all three. This was ratified by the 2006 Cordoba Agreement. After meetings in Malaga (Spain), Faro (Portugal), and Mallorca (Spain), the Spanish foreign minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos went to Gibraltar in July 2009 to discuss a range of mutual issues. This was the first official Spanish visit since Gibraltar was ceded. The issue of sovereignty was not discussed.\n\nFrom 2010 Spain has claimed that the trilateral dialogue is finished and reverted to the original call for a bilateral agreement with the UK with four way \"ad hoc\" meetings which would include Campo de Gibraltar.\n\nThe Gibraltarians have sought a more modern status and relationship with the United Kingdom reflecting and expanding the present level of self-government.\n\nA new constitution order was approved in a referendum in 2006, which moved Gibraltar to a more Crown dependency-like relationship with the UK, rather than the previous colonial status. The new constitution came into effect in January 2007. Gibraltar is classified as a British overseas territory.\n\nIn a letter to the UN the British representative, Emyr Jones Parry, writes: \"The new constitution provides for a modern relationship between Gibraltar and the United Kingdom. I do not think that this description would apply to any relationship based on colonialism.\"\n\nChief Minister Peter Caruana addressed the UN Special Committee on Decolonization regarding the new constitution in 2008. He put forth Gibraltar Government's view that \"As far as we are concerned, the decolonisation of Gibraltar is no longer a pending issue.\"\n\nParallel with this, the Government of Gibraltar has engaged in talks with Spain to resolve other disputes, setting aside the issue of sovereignty.\n\nThe territory of Gibraltar contains an section of the isthmus that links the Rock with Spain. Although it is argued by Spain that this section of the isthmus was never ceded by Spain; rather, it was gradually occupied de facto by the British, this section of the isthmus together with the other half of it north of the Gibraltar-Spain border was once labelled as neutral territory separating Spain from Gibraltar.\n\nThe growth of Gibraltar onto the southern half of the isthmus began with the construction of two forts in the northernmost part of the ceded territory. In 1815, Gibraltar suffered a yellow fever epidemic. This led to a Spanish concession so a temporary quarantine health camp could be built on the isthmus. After the plague was over, the British did not remove the camp. In 1854, a new epidemic prompted more health camps, which eventually gained Gibraltar these extra 800 metres of land. The occupation of the isthmus culminated in 1938 with the construction of the aerodrome during the Spanish civil war.\n\nThe Treaty of Utrecht did not mention British sovereignty over Gibraltar beyond the fortified perimeter of the town as it was in 1713. However the Treaty ceded the town \"together with the port, fortifications, and forts thereunto belonging\", which included several forts along the line of the current frontier. The United Kingdom further claims title to the southern half of the isthmus based on continuous possession over a long period.\n\nThe northern half of the neutral territory was also taken over by Spain in the 1960s, during dictator Francisco Franco's regime, and now forms an integral part of the Spanish municipality of La Línea de la Concepción.\n\nBoth the United Kingdom and Spain have ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, which governs countries' oceanic territorial claims. Both countries made statements regarding Gibraltar in their declarations upon ratification of the Convention. The Spanish statement was:\n\n2. In ratifying the Convention, Spain wishes to make it known that this act cannot be construed as recognition of any rights or status regarding the maritime space of Gibraltar that are not included in article 10 of the Treaty of Utrecht of 13 July 1713 concluded between the Crowns of Spain and Great Britain. Furthermore, Spain does not consider that Resolution III of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea is applicable to the colony of Gibraltar, which is subject to a process of decolonization in which only relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly are applicable.\n\nThe British government responded to the Spanish statement in their own statement:\n\nWith regard to point 2 of the declaration made upon ratification of the Convention by the Government of Spain, the Government of the United Kingdom has no doubt about the sovereignty of the United Kingdom over Gibraltar, including its territorial waters. The Government of the United Kingdom, as the administering authority of Gibraltar, has extended the United Kingdom's accession to the Convention and ratification of the Agreement to Gibraltar. The Government of the United Kingdom, therefore, rejects as unfounded point 2 of the Spanish declaration.\n\nHowever, Articles 309 and 310 of the Convention state that \"No reservations or exceptions may be made to this Convention unless expressly permitted by other articles of this Convention\", and that if a signatory state makes a declaration upon ratification, that declaration must \"not purport to exclude or to modify the legal effect of the provisions of this Convention in their application\" to that state.\n\nThe dispute over territorial waters, which was rekindled in 2013 following a fishing dispute seems likely to become more important with the discovery of a British treasure ship, HMS Sussex, and the Black Swan Project controversy. \n\nQuestions about the waters have previously been asked in the House of Commons, and answered as follows:\nUnder international law, States are entitled, but not required, to extend their territorial sea up to a maximum breadth of 12 nautical miles. Where the coasts of two States are opposite or adjacent, the general rule is that neither is entitled, unless they agree otherwise, to extend its territorial sea beyond the median line. The UK Government considers that a limit of three nautical miles is sufficient in the case of Gibraltar.\n\nThe Government of Gibraltar for its part holds that there is no economic or social need for more than three nautical miles of territorial water.\n\nAt the end of 2008, the European Commission included most of the territorial waters that surround Gibraltar under a marine conservation area known as the \"Estrecho Oriental\" that will be maintained by Spain. The UK initiated legal proceedings with the support of Gibraltar, which were initially rejected by the General Court on procedural grounds. A 2011 appeal was dismissed, again on procedural grounds. The European Court of Justice had again ruled against that appeal in 2012.\n\nThere have been disputes concerning Spanish patrol boats inside these claimed territorial waters. In May 2009 there was a number of Spanish incursions into British-claimed waters around Gibraltar, including by a Spanish Navy fisheries protection vessel, leading to intervention by police and a diplomatic protest by the UK.\n\nThe Spanish government argues that Gibraltar's tax schemes harm the Spanish economy. In January 2005, the European Commissioner for Competition requested the UK (responsible for Gibraltar's external relations) to abolish Gibraltar's tax-exempt company regime by the end of 2010 (at the latest) on the basis that it constitutes illegal state aid that could distort competition. Unlike other tax havens like Andorra, Gibraltar has not signed a mutual agreement with Spain to exchange fiscal information, although such an agreement has been offered by the Gibraltar Government, but Spain has declined to accept it because does not consider Gibraltar as its diplomatic counterpart. Another concern that has been raised is that each day thousands of Spaniards buy goods at cheaper prices in Gibraltar due to exchange rates and lack of VAT, contributing to the Gibraltar economy instead of that of Spain.\n\nThe Spanish government wants to increase the exchange of fiscal information in order to prevent Gibraltar banks being used for tax evasion and money laundering. The United Kingdom House of Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee has directed an inquiry that determined that Gibraltar has always complied with all international and EU requirements to prevent such activity.\n\nWe conclude that the series of allegations which Spain makes against Gibraltar appear almost wholly to be without substance. In many cases, it is not just the Government of Gibraltar but the British Government as well which is traduced. It is deeply regrettable that allegations are made that cannot be sustained by a basis in fact. If concrete evidence of wrong-doing were produced, the British Government should act promptly to deal with the problem. But so long as allegations are unsubstantiated, the British Government should continue to rebut them promptly and decisively.\n\nReferred to as an \"international financial centre\", Gibraltar was among 35 jurisdictions identified by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as a tax haven in June 2000. As a result of having made a commitment in accordance with the OECD's 2001 Progress Report on the OECD's Project on Harmful Tax Practices, Gibraltar was not included in the OECD's list of uncooperative tax havens. However, in its April 2009 progress report, the OECD listed Gibraltar in the list of jurisdictions that, although committed, had not \"substantially implemented\" yet the internationally agreed tax standard. Following Gibraltar's signing of 12 additional Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs), as of October 2009, with jurisdictions including the UK, USA and Germany, Gibraltar was listed in the OECD \"white list\". It is currently listed as \"largely compliant\" by the OECD's Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes.\n\nAlong with the Isle of Man and Cyprus, Gibraltar has been used as an international finance centre by the Russian conglomerate Yukos/Menatep.\n\nThere have been claims that some Gibraltarian motorboats are engaging in drugs and tobacco smuggling. However, since 1996 there has been a law in Gibraltar controlling fast launches licensing their ownership and importation and prohibiting the entry of unlicensed craft into Gibraltar waters. In 2014, inspectors from the EU's fraud office OLAF wrote to the Spanish governments urging an investigation of tobacco smuggling, amid revelations that Gibraltar, with a population of less than 30,000, imported 117 million packets of cigarettes in 2013. In 2015, Spanish authorities broke up a major tobacco smuggling operation, seizing 65,000 packs of cigarettes, five boats, two firearms, communications equipment and €100,000 cash. Authorities estimated the group was smuggling 150,000 packs of contraband tobacco into Spain every week.\n\nMilitary control of the Strait of Gibraltar has historically been the most important use of Gibraltar, allowing Britain to defend its trade lanes to the East. The British admiral Lord Fisher stated that Gibraltar was one of the five keys that locked the world, together with Dover, Alexandria, Cape of Good Hope and Singapore, all of which were once controlled by Britain.\n\nIts military relevance has reduced with the construction in 1953 of the US Naval Station Rota (the biggest Allied base in the area) and with the end of the Cold War, but it is still an important position as more than one quarter of the global maritime traffic transits through the strait every year. Controlling the strait is of vital importance to NATO. The task of controlling the strait has been traditionally assigned by NATO to the UK, but the recent advances that Spain has made in its armed forces and the bases Spain has in the zone have made NATO reconsider this. However, the tense relations that Spain had with the American administration under George W. Bush and the special friendship of the US with the UK have caused NATO to take a more favourable position towards the UK and Morocco for control of the strait.\n\nIn May 1954, despite objections by Spain, Queen Elizabeth II visited Gibraltar. Spanish dictator Francisco Franco had renewed claims to The Rock. British National Archives files from 1953 show that Franco claimed that Spain had been promised The Rock in return for not attacking the territory during the Second World War. \nThe Foreign and Commonwealth Office conducted a full review of their files to see whether Franco's claim had any foundation. A confidential memo called the Spanish communiqué \"a flimsy and unconvincing document\", and the Government put an end to the dispute by refusing to comment on the claims.\n\nIn a 1967 referendum on sovereignty organised by the British Government, 99.6% of voters voted to remain under British sovereignty.\n\nIn a second referendum on sovereignty held in November 2002 by the Government of Gibraltar, 187 voted yes (1%) and 17,900 voted no (99%) on the proposal of sharing sovereignty with Spain. The question put was:\n\nOn the 12 July 2002 the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, in a formal statement in the House of Commons, said that after twelve months of negotiation the British Government and Spain are in broad agreement on many of the principles that should underpin a lasting settlement of Spain's sovereignty claim, which included the principle that Britain and Spain should share sovereignty over Gibraltar.\nDo you approve of the principle that Britain and Spain should share sovereignty over Gibraltar?\n\nSpanish reaction varied from questioning the validity of the process, to observing that no Spanish government has done enough to make joint sovereignty or integration with Spain an attractive prospect.\n\nIt is reported that Spanish \"secret funds\" were used to create a favourable opinion in Gibraltar to the Spanish sovereignty claim. How the money was spent remains uncertain.\n\nAfter the Spanish constitution, Spain was still reluctant to re-open the border because of the consequences it might have. However the border was re-opened in 1984, allowing free access between both sides, although Spain did not open ferry services until later. Further problems have been encountered regarding the airport, as it is placed on disputed neutral land. Under the Lisbon Agreement of 1980:\n\nBoth Governments have reached agreement on the re-establishment of direct communications in the region. The Spanish Government has decided to suspend the application of the measures at present in force.\n\nThis was to include reinstatement of a ferry service between Gibraltar and Algeciras. This was finally reinstated after 40 years, on 16 December 2009, operated by the Spanish company Transcoma.\n\nAt the end of 2006, the restrictions on the airport were removed as a result of the Córdoba Agreement (2006) and direct flights from Madrid by Iberia started operation.\n\nOn 22 September 2008, however, Iberia announced that it would cease its flights to Madrid by 28 September due to \"economic reasons\", namely, lack of demand. This left Gibraltar without any air links with Spain, until May 2009 when Air Andalus opened a service. Air communications with Spain ceased again in August 2010, when Air Andalus lost its licence.\n\nSpain demonstrated opposition to Gibraltar's membership of Union of European Football Associations.\n\n2000 – An issue of contention was the repair of the nuclear powered submarine, . The Government of Spain expressed its concern about the effective safety for the inhabitants of Gibraltar and the some 250,000 people living in the \"Campo de Gibraltar\", the adjacent area in Spain.\n\nThe inhabitants of the area saw this repair as a precedent of future repair operations in Gibraltar rather than the one-off emergency the British Government has claimed (no other nuclear submarine has been repaired in Gibraltar since). On the other hand, the Government of Gibraltar accused Spain of using this incident as an excuse to justify its 300-year-old sovereignty claim to Gibraltar. Despite many protests, the Government of Gibraltar allowed the work to be done after employing its own experts to confirm it could be undertaken safely. The submarine was in Gibraltar for a year before leaving, during which the repair was completed without incident.\n\nSubsequently, Spanish politicians have complained about every nuclear submarine visit to Gibraltar, and have tried unsuccessfully to get a reassurance that this would totally stop. There have been no further protests against nuclear submarines in Gibraltar. Commenting, the Government of Gibraltar said: \"Nuclear submarine visits to Gibraltar are a matter for UK and Gibraltar. Visits for operational or recreational purposes are welcome by the Gibraltar Government ... To our knowledge, it is not the position of the present Spanish Government or any previous Spanish Government, that it is opposed to visits by nuclear submarines.\"\n\n2002 – In the months that predated the referendum called by the Gibraltar government on the joint sovereignty agreement disagreements could be categorised as:\n\n2004 – A visit by The Princess Royal in June 2004, the brief return of HMS \"Tireless\" in July 2004, together with the Tercentenary Celebrations of the capture of The Rock were subjects of complaint by the Spanish Government.\n\nA new round of talks on a tri-lateral basis were proposed in October 2004 to discuss regional co-operation. In February 2005 the first talks took place at a meeting held in Málaga and subsequently in Portugal and London.\n\nThis is the first sign of formal recognition of the Government of Gibraltar, and has been generally welcomed. The main issues of the talks have been a new agreement on the airport, the pensions of the Spanish workers that worked in Gibraltar during the 1960s, and the removal of Spanish restrictions on telecommunications.\n\n2006 – Those issues were successfully resolved in September 2006 in the Córdoba Agreement. The process continues.\n\n2007 – A bulk carrier, the , ran aground south of Europa Point in Gibraltar and broke up on the reef in August 2007, generating accusations of pollution in Spain and claims not only against the Government of Gibraltar but also against that of Spain. Its cargo was scrap metal and the vessel's fuel was promptly drained. The Government of Gibraltar claimed in December 2007 that the operation did not represent a material risk to the environment since the vessel had been defuelled and only small, remnant amounts of fuel remained in the engines themselves. The Spanish branch of Greenpeace claimed that, as late as February 2008, fuel spills from the New Flame had polluted Spanish beaches around the Bay of Gibraltar. Official Spanish sources played this down stating that the fuel reaching the beaches of Algeciras was in \"insignificant amounts\".\n\n2009 – The dispute over British-claimed territorial waters gained prominence with deliberate incursions by Spain, triggering angry headlines in the UK tabloid press. In December 2009, four armed Civil Guard officers were detained after three landed in Gibraltar in pursuit of two suspected smugglers, who were themselves arrested. The Spanish Interior Minister Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba personally telephoned Chief Minister Peter Caruana to apologise, stating that there were \"no political intentions\" behind the incident. The Chief Minister was prepared to accept it had not been a political act. The Spanish officers were released by the police the following day, who said that \"Enquiries established that the Guardia Civil mistakenly entered Gibraltar Territorial Waters in hot pursuit and have since apologised for their actions.\"\n\n2012 – Queen Sofía of Spain cancelled plans to travel to the United Kingdom to participate in the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II. The cancellation was a protest in response to a planned visit to Gibraltar by Prince Edward. The Spanish government also lodged a protest to the planned visit by Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. Relations between Britain and Spain reportedly \"returned to a state of growing confrontation\" following the election of Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the People's Party in December 2011. Plans for a 100-boat flotilla to sail around the peninsula to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee were adopted in Gibraltar as \"a show of defiance against Spain.\" Additional protests followed in August 2012 after Gibraltar abrogated an accord that allowed Spanish fishing boats to operate in its waters.\n\n2013 – Disagreements between Spain and the United Kingdom Government re-surfaced in July 2013, initially after the Gibraltar Government placed a number of concrete blocks in the sea off the coast of Gibraltar, intending to form an artificial reef. The Spanish Government protested however stating that it had a negative impact on fishing in the area, restricting access for Spanish fishing vessels. At the end of July the Spanish Government introduced extra border checks for people going in and out of the territory into Spain. The British Government protested as the checks were causing major delays of up to seven hours while people waited to cross the border, and on 2 August the Spanish Ambassador was summoned to the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London to discuss these developments.\n\nOn 2 August 2013, Spanish Foreign Minister José Manuel Garcia-Margallo gave an interview to Spain's \"ABC\" newspaper. He announced possible plans to introduce a 50 euro border crossing fee for people going to and from Gibraltar, in response to the creation of the artificial reef. Plans to close Spanish airspace to Gibraltar bound flights were also reported, as were plans for an investigation by Spanish tax authorities into property owned by around 6,000 Gibraltarians in neighbouring parts of Spain. The Spanish Foreign Minister also mooted plans to changes in the law meaning British online gaming companies based in Gibraltar would have to base servers in Spain, meaning that they would come under Madrid's tax regime.\n\nThe British Foreign office responded to these comments: \"The prime minister has made clear that the UK government will meet its constitutional commitments to the people of Gibraltar and will not compromise on sovereignty.\"\n\nAfter the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union, despite a strong vote to remain in Gibraltar, on 23 June 2016, Spain reiterated its position that it wanted to jointly govern Gibraltar with the United Kingdom and said it would seek to block Gibraltar from participating in talks over future deals between the UK and EU. The European council released a series of guidelines on negotiations for withdrawal, with core principal number 22 stating that any agreement affecting Gibraltar needed the agreement of Spain suggesting that Spain had been given a veto while the United Kingdom re-iterated its commitment to Gibraltar.\n\nOn 18 October 2018, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced that he had reached an agreement with Britain, declaring that a special protocol about Gibraltar was being prepared along with the UK Government and was hopeful to reach a good agreement for both parties. However, on November 19, 2018, the Spanish Government threatened not to support the Brexit Agreement Draft because they say that an article was added without their consent that could be misunderstood and leave Spain without a say over Gibraltar. On November 22, 2018, PM Sánchez and PM May discussed the problem but the Spanish PM declared that \"our positions remain far away. My Government will always defend the interests of Spain. If there are no changes, we will veto Brexit.\" On November 24, 2018, Spain agreed not to veto the Brexit deal in exchange for a tripartite statement of the European Commission President and the European Council President, the UK Government and the EU Member States saying that no deal would be reached about Gibraltar without Spain's consent. The European statement also declared that the EU does not consider Gibraltar to be part of the United Kingdom.\n\n\nBritish sources\n\nSpanish sources\n\n"}
{"id": "53277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53277", "title": "Fat acceptance movement", "text": "Fat acceptance movement\n\nThe fat acceptance movement (also known as the size acceptance, fat liberation, fat activism, fativism, fat justice, or fat power movement) is a social movement seeking to change anti-fat bias in social attitudes. Areas of contention include the aesthetic, legal, and medical approaches to people whose bodies are fatter than the social norm. The movement has been criticized, with Cathy Young, writing for \"The Boston Globe\", claiming that \"the fat acceptance movement is hazardous to our health\", and Barbara Kay, writing for the \"National Post\", stating that \"fat-acceptance is not the answer to obesity.\" However, studies have shown that stress is linked to obesity, and that encouraging overweight people to focus on losing their excess weight has been linked to an increase in over-eating, leading to more weight-gain. The modern fat acceptance movement began in the late 1960s. \n\nBesides its political role, the fat acceptance movement also constitutes a subculture that acts as a social group for its members.\n\nThe history of the fat acceptance movement can be dated back to 1967 when 500 people met in New York's Central Park to protest against anti-fat bias. Sociologist Charlotte Cooper has argued that the history of the fat activist movement is best understood in waves, similar to the feminist movement, with which she believes it is closely tied. Cooper believes that fat activists have suffered similar waves of activism followed by burnout, with activists in a following wave often unaware of the history of the movement, resulting in a lack of continuity.\n\nFirst wave activities consisted of isolated activists drawing attention to the dominant model of obesity and challenging it as only one of a number of possible models.\n\nDuring the but early part of the 20th century, obesity was seen as detrimental to the community, by means of decreasing human efficiency, and that obese people interfere with labor productivity in the coastal areas of the United States. This kind of history and visibility gave rise to the fat acceptance movement which originated in the late 1960s, although its grassroots nature makes it difficult to precisely chart its milestones. Like other social movements from this time period, the fat acceptance movement, initially known as \"Fat Pride\", \"Fat Power\", or \"Fat Liberation\", often consisted of people acting in an impromptu fashion. A \"fat-in\" was staged in New York's Central Park in 1967. Called by radio personality Steve Post, the \"Fat-in\" consisted of a group of 500 people eating, carrying signs and photographs of Sophia Loren (an actress famous for her figure), and burning diet books.\n\nIn 1967, Lew Louderback wrote an article in the Saturday Evening Post called \"More People Should be FAT\" in response to discrimination against his wife. The article led to a meeting between Louderback and William Fabrey, who went on to found the first organisation for fat people and their supporters, originally named the 'National Association to Aid Fat Americans' and currently called NAAFA ('National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance'). NAAFA was founded in America, in 1969, by Bill Fabrey in response to discrimination against his wife. He primarily intended it to campaign for fat rights, however a reporter attending the 2001 NAAFA conference notes that few attendees were active in fat rights politics and that most women came to shop for fashion, wear it on the conference catwalk or to meet a potential partner. Fabrey currently works with the Council on Size and Weight Discrimination, specialising in the history of the size acceptance movement.\n\nIn 1972 the feminist group The Fat Underground was formed. It began as a radical chapter of NAAFA and spun off to become independent when NAAFA expressed concerns about its promotion of a stronger activist philosophy. The FU were inspired by and, in some cases, members of the Radical Therapy Collective, a feminist group that believed that many psychological problems were caused by oppressive social institutions and practices. Founded by Sara Fishman (then Sara Aldebaran) and Judy Freespirit, the Fat Underground took issue with what they saw as a growing bias against obesity in the scientific community. They coined the saying, \"a diet is a cure that doesn't work, for a disease that doesn't exist\". Shortly afterwards, Fishman moved to Connecticut, where, along with Karen Scott-Jones, she founded the New Haven Fat Liberation Front, an organization similar to the Fat Underground in its scope and focus. In 1983, the two groups collaborated to publish a seminal book in the field of fat activism, \"Shadow on a Tightrope\", which collected several fat activist position papers initially distributed by the Fat Underground, as well as poems and essays from other writers.\n\nIn 1979 Carole Shaw coined the term Big Beautiful Woman (BBW) and launched a fashion and lifestyle magazine of the same name aimed at plus-sized women. The original print magazine closed in the late 1990s but the term BBW has become widely used to refer to any fat woman.\n\nIn the UK The London Fat Women's Group was formed, the first British fat activist group, and was active between approximately 1985 and 1989.\n\nOther first wave activities included the productions of zines such as \"Figure 8\" and \"Fat!So?\", by Marilyn Wann which later became a book of the same name.\n\nIn the second wave, the fat acceptance movement became more widespread in the USA and started to spread to other countries. Ideas from the movement began to appear in the mainstream. Publishers became more willing to publish fat acceptance themed literature.\n\nBy the 1990s, input from the fat acceptance movement began to be incorporated into research papers by some members of the medical professions such as new anti-dieting programs and models of obesity management.\n\nThe 1980s witnessed an increase in activist organizations, publications, and conferences. In 1989 a group of people including actress Anne Zamberlan formed the first French organisation for fat acceptance, \"Allegro fortissimo\".\n\nOrganisations began holding conferences and conventions, including NAAFA.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement has seen a diversification of projects during the third wave. Activities have addressed issues of both fat and race, class, sexuality and other issues. Size discrimination has been increasingly addressed in the arts, as well. Performance art groups such as Pretty Porky & Pissed Off, The Padded Lilies, a water ballet troupe of large sized women, Big Moves and the Fat Bottom Revue, a Big Burlesque touring show founded by fat activist, Heather MacAllister, and \"LEFTOVERS, the Ups & Downs of a Compulsive Eater\", by Marcia Kimmell, Deah Schwartz and Anne Wilford, . These shows, among others, intentionally feature fat people in them.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement increased in the 2000s, with the creation of the \"fatosphere\" and the \"Fat Liberation Feed\", providing online communities of blogs and social media dedicated to the fat acceptance movement. Notable fat activists within the \"fatosphere\" include Marianne Kirby of \"The Rotund\" and Kate Harding of \"Shapely Prose\", who co-wrote the book \"Lessons from the Fat-o-sphere: Quit Dieting and Declare a Truce with Your Body.\" Additionally, the Fat Studies listserv, Health At Every Size (HAES) was created by Marilyn Wann as a place for scholars to find more fat positive information.\n\nThe individual blogs of the second wave have mainly been overtaken by larger scale social networking sites such as \"PeopleOfSize.com\", while several websites have sprung up to help connect fat people with fat-friendly service providers and products, such as \"fatshionista\". Size discrimination has been increasingly addressed in the arts, as well.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement argues that fat people are targets of hatred and discrimination. In particular, that obese women are subjected to more social pressure than obese men. The movement argues that these attitudes comprise a fat phobic entrenched societal norm, evident in many social institutions, including the mass media; where fat people are often ridiculed or held up as objects of pity. Discrimination includes lack of equal access to transportation and employment. Members of the fat acceptance movement perceive negative societal attitudes as persistent, and as being based on the presumption that fatness reflects negatively on a person's character. Fat activists continue to strive for change in societal, personal, and medical attitudes toward fat people. Fat acceptance organisations engage in public education about what they describe as myths concerning fat people.\n\nFat individuals experience weight-based discrimination in a number of avenues within their lives. This discrimination is experienced in healthcare, employment, education, interpersonal relationships, and in media. Discrimination can impact both the physical and psychological health of those experiencing it.\n\nFat activists argue that anti-fat stigma and aggressive diet promotion have led to an increase in psychological and physiological problems among fat people. Concerns are also raised that modern culture's focus on weight loss may not have a foundation in scientific research, but instead is an example of using science as a means to control deviance, as a part of society's attempt to deal with something that it finds disturbing. Diet critics cite the high failure rate of permanent weight loss attempts, and the dangers of \"yo-yo\" weight fluctuations and weight loss surgeries. Fat activists argue that the health issues of obesity and being overweight have been exaggerated or misrepresented, and that the health issues are used as a cover for cultural and aesthetic prejudices against fat.\n\nProponents of fat acceptance maintain that people of all shapes and sizes can strive for fitness and physical health. They believe health to be independent of body weight. Informed by this approach, psychologists who were unhappy with the treatment of fat people in the medical world initiated the Health at Every Size movement. It has five basic tenets: 1. Enhancing health, 2. Size and self-acceptance, 3. The pleasure of eating well, 4. The joy of movement, and 5. An end to weight bias.\n\nHowever, the consensus within the scientific community is that obesity has a negative impact on the health of an individual. Numerous medical studies have challenged the 'healthy obesity' concept. One complicating factor in these studies is that definitions of metabolically-healthy obesity are not standardized across studies.\n\nThe issues faced by fat women in society have been a central theme of the fat acceptance movement since its inception. Although the first organisation, NAAFA, and the first book, \"Fat Power\" (1970), were both created by men, in each case they were responses to weight discrimination experienced by their wives. Women soon started campaigning on their own behalf with the first feminist group, 'The Fat Underground', being formed in 1973. Issues addressed regarding women have included body image, and in particular The Thin Ideal and its effect on women.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement has primarily focused on a feminist model of patriarchal oppression of fat women, most clearly represented by the encouragement of women to diet. However, Sander L. Gilman argues that, until the 20th century, dieting has historically been a man's activity. He continues, \"Obesity eats away at the idealised image of the masculine just as surely as it does the idealised image of the feminine.\" William Banting was the author of an 1863 booklet called \"Letter On Corpulence\" which modern diets have used as a model. Men respond to being overweight differently, (i.e., having a Body Mass Index of 25 or more), being half as likely as women to diet, a quarter as likely to undergo weightloss surgery and only a fifth as likely to report feeling shame about their weight. Irmgard Tischner identifies this behaviour as rooted in notions of masculinity that require a disregard for healthcare: \"Men do not have to care about their size or health, as they have women to care about those things for them\".\n\nSome gay men have moved beyond disregard for size to fat acceptance and fat activism with movements like chub culture, which started as Girth & Mirth clubs in San Francisco in 1976 and the bear culture which fetishises big, hairy men. Ganapati Durgadas argues that fat bisexual and gay men \"are reminders of the feminine stigma with which heterosexism still tars queer men\". In a comparison of queer fat positive zines, the lesbian-produced \"Fat Girl\" was found to have political debate content absent from gay male orientated zines such as \"Bulk Male\" and \"Big Ad\". Joel Barraquiel Tan comments: \"If fat is a feminist issue, then fat or heft is a fetishised one for gay men. Gay men have a tendency to sexualise difference, where lesbians have historically politicised it.\"\n\nA fat heterosexual man is known as a \"Big Handsome Man\", in counterpart to a Big Beautiful Woman. Like some fat and gay men, BHMs have sexualized their difference and receive validation of this identity from BBWs or from straight women known as \"Female Fat Admirers\".\n\nIn the 1980s fat people in the United States began seeking legal redress for discrimination on the basis of weight, primarily in the workplace but also for being denied access to, or treated differently in regards to, services or entertainment. The results of these cases has varied considerably, although in some instances the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) has been successfully used to argue cases of discrimination against fat people. Roth and Solovay argue that, as with transgender people, a major cause for the variation in success is the extent to which litigants are apologetic for their size:\n\nWhat is the difference between a million-dollar weight case award and a losing case? Like the difference between many winning and losing transgender cases, it's all about the attitude. Does the claimant's attitude and experience about weight/gender reinforce or challenge dominant stereotypes? Winning cases generally adopt a legal posture that reinforces social prejudices. Cases that challenge societal prejudices generally lose.\nThe ADA act continues to be used as there is no USA federal law against weight discrimination; however, the state of\nMichigan has passed a law against weight discrimination. The cities of Washington D.C., San Francisco (2000), Santa Cruz, Binghamton, Urbana (1990s) and Madison (1970s) have also passed laws prohibiting weight discrimination. In the cities that have a weight discrimination law it is rare for more than 1 case a year to be brought, except for San Francisco which may have as many as 6. Opinions amongst city enforcement workers vary as to why the prosecution numbers are so low, although they all suggested that both overweight people and employers were unaware of the protective legislation and it was also noted that the cities with anti-weight discrimination laws tended to be liberal college towns.\n\nHowever, not all legal changes have protected the rights of fat people. Despite recommendations from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to the contrary, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has decided that fat people will only qualify as disabled if it can be proved that their weight is caused by an underlying condition, supporting the concept that being obese is not inherently a disability.\n\nOther countries besides the United States have considered legislation to protect the rights of fat people. In the UK an All Party Parliamentary Group published a report in 2012 called \"Reflections on Body Image\" that found that 1 in 5 British people had been victimised because of their weight. The report recommended that Members of Parliament Investigated putting \"appearance-based discrimination\" under the same legal basis as sexual or racial discrimination via the Equality Act 2010 which makes it illegal to harass, victimise or discriminate against anyone on the basis of a number of named categories. including size or weight\n\nThere has also been an emerging body of academic studies with a fat activist agenda. Marilyn Wann argues that fat studies moved beyond being an individual endeavour to being a field of study with the 2004 conference \"Fat Attitudes: An Examination of an American Subculture and the Representation of the Female Body\" The American Popular Culture Association regularly includes panels on the subject. In a number of colleges, student groups with a fat activist agenda have emerged, including Hampshire, Smith, and Antioch. Fat studies is now available as an interdisciplinary course of study at some colleges, taking a similar approach to other identity studies such as women's studies, queer studies and African American studies. As of 2011, there were 2 Australian courses and 10 American courses that were primarily focussed on fat studies or on health at every size, and numerous other courses that had some fat acceptance content. Taylor & Francis publish an online Fat Studies journal. In the UK, the first national Fat Studies seminar was held at York in May 2008, leading to the 2009 publication \"Fat Studies in the UK\", edited by Corinna Tomrley and Ann Kalosky Naylor.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement has been divided in its response to proposed legislation defining morbidly obese people as disabled. NAAFA board member Peggy Howell says: \"There's a lot of conflict in the size acceptance community over this. I don't consider myself disabled, and some people don't like 'fat' being considered a disability.\" An example of the positive perspective of obesity being classified as a disability in wider society is noted by one researcher: \"She makes a point to tell me how impressed she is with the way many do make quiet and polite accommodations for her.\"\n\nAnother common division in the fat acceptance community is the differing attitudes towards general society, specifically thin people. The fat acceptance community generally divides into two categories. One is those who feel discrimination towards thin people hinders the fat acceptance cause. The other side views thin people as at least a partial cause of their social stigma.\n\nWomen are particularly active within the fat acceptance movement and membership of fat acceptance organizations is dominated by middle-class women in the heaviest 1–2% of the population. Members have criticized the lack of representation in the movement from men, people of color, and people of lower socioeconomic status.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement has been criticised from a number of perspectives. Primarily there has been a conflict over the medicalisation of fat and health professionals who have criticised proponents of fat acceptance for ignoring health issues that many studies have shown to be linked to obesity. Fat acceptance has also been challenged from a moral perspective and the movement has been criticised for being out of touch with the mainstream.\n\nLionel Shriver, American journalist and author, wrote a column in \"Standpoint magazine\" strongly criticizing the fat acceptance movement. She condemned the movements' demand for respect for fatness in itself, which promotes the same unhealthy lifestyle that she believes killed her brother, who was morbidly obese and died at the age of 55. She also criticized the movements' repeated comparison of sizeism with racism or homophobia, saying that this approach casts obesity in the light of being an unchangeable state.\n\nCathy Young, writing for \"The\" \"Boston Globe\", claimed that the movement was responsible for normalizing and promoting the acceptance of a controllable disease with clear health complications. While she recognizes the value in fighting against self-loathing, she draws the line at advocating for acceptance of an \"unhealthy status quo.\" She says that by normalizing obesity, the fat acceptance movement leads people to underestimate the associated health hazards, and that the movement has also grown intolerant, exhibiting signs of elitism and treading on personal freedom.\n\nThe movement has also been criticized for its treatment of women with eating disorders or who follow diets for health-related reasons, since they are seen as betraying the movement. In 2008 Lily-Rygh Glen, a writer, musician, and former fat acceptance activist, interviewed multiple women who claimed to be rejected by their peers within the movement and labeled \"traitors\" when they consciously changed their diets. One female activist admitted to living in fear that her binge eating disorder and consequent body image issues would be discovered. Glen states, \"It is precisely because eating disorders are \"not\" openly discussed that many fat people who suffer from bulimia, binge-eating disorder, and pathorexia (defined as disordered appetite, and used to refer to an entire spectrum of disordered eating) feel they aren't welcome in the fat acceptance movement.\" The author also claimed that while in the process of interviewing and writing the article, which was featured in \"Bitch\" magazine's \"Lost & Found\" issue, she received wide condemnation from the fat acceptance community, and was labeled fatphobic and healthist.\n\nThe fat acceptance movement has been criticized for not adding value to the debate over human health, with some critics accusing the movement of \"promoting a lifestyle that can have dire health consequences\". In 2018, the University of East Anglia released a report saying that fat acceptance, body positivity and the \"normalization of plus size\" was damaging to people's perceptions of obesity, made overweight and obese people less likely to seek medical attention when necessary, and undermined government initiatives intended to overcome the problem.\n\nIn response, proponents of fat acceptance claim that being fat in and of itself is not a health problem and that long-term weight-loss is unsuccessful in the majority of cases. Barry Franklin, director of a cardio rehab facility states: \"I don't want to take on any specific organisation but... A social movement that would suggest health at any size in many respects can be misleading\". Fat acceptance campaigners also argue that current approaches constitute fat-shaming which, rather than leading to weight loss, results in psychological issues like eating disorders and more often functions counter-productively, resulting in weight gain.\n\nResting metabolic rate varies little between people, therefore, weight gain and loss are directly attributable to diet and activity.\n\nThe view that obese people eat little yet gain weight due to a slow metabolism is not medically supported.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2889035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2889035", "title": "Figurehead", "text": "Figurehead\n\nIn politics, a figurehead is a person who holds \"de jure\" (in name or by law) an important title or office (often supremely powerful), yet \"de facto\" (in reality) exercises little actual power. The metaphor derives from the carved figurehead at the prow of a sailing ship. Commonly cited figureheads include Queen Elizabeth II, who is Queen of sixteen Commonwealth realms and head of the Commonwealth, but has no power over the nations in which she is not head of state and does not exercise power in her own realms on her own initiative. Other figureheads are the Emperor of Japan, the King of Sweden, or presidents in majority of parliamentary republics, such as the President of India, President of Israel, President of Bangladesh, President of Greece, President of Germany, President of Pakistan, and President of China (when not simultaneously holding the CPC General Secretary and Chairman of CMC posts).\n\nDuring the crisis of the March on Rome in 1922, King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy, though a figurehead, played a key role in handing power to Benito Mussolini. More than 20 years later, the same King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy played a key role in the dismissal of Benito Mussolini in 1943.\nSince the abolition of monarchy in Italy and the establishment of a republic in 1946, the Italian President assumed most of the ceremonial functions of the previous kings; however, the Italian President retains large powers in appointing a prime minister of his choice when in parliament there's no clear majority government, creating a so-called \"president's cabinet\" (a technocratic cabinet). For example, the former Prime Minister of Italy, Sen Mario Monti, was appointed by the Italian President Giorgio Napolitano as a lifetime-senator and then as Prime Minister of the country, not after a new election.\n\nConversely, King Juan Carlos I of Spain, also largely considered a figurehead, had in 1981 a key role in defending the newborn Spanish democracy and foiling the attempted coup d'état, known as \"23-F\".\n\nThe word can also have more sinister overtones, and refer to a powerful leader, who should be exercising full authority, who is actually being controlled by a more powerful figure behind the throne.\n\n"}
{"id": "34360922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34360922", "title": "Food drive", "text": "Food drive\n\nA food drive is a form of charity that is conducted by a group of individuals or a corporation to stockpile and distribute foodstuffs to people who cannot afford food.\n\nFood drives are operated in order to stock food banks that distribute food to homeless people, soup kitchens, vulnerable seniors, orphanages, refugees, and victims of disasters. There are also food drives to help people hold feasts on Christmas and Thanksgiving. Many are organized by community organizations, nonprofits, churches, and even individuals.\n\nMany people involved in charity work are critical of the inefficiency of food drives. Emergency food providers are able to buy surplus stock from the food industry at a significant discount, Katherina Rosqueta of the Center for High Impact Philanthropy estimating it at 5% of retail price. Instead of buying canned food at store prices and physically donating it, a monetary donation to the same value could be used to acquire a much greater amount of food, and of a variety chosen by the food charity.\n\nGreg Bloom of Bread for the City expressed concern over the health value of donated food, saying that \"almost half of what comes to us in any given food drive just doesn’t meet our nutritional standards\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47353944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47353944", "title": "Forward air control operations during World War II", "text": "Forward air control operations during World War II\n\nForward air control operations during World War II were begun as an ad hoc expedient to wartime conditions. \n\nForward air control during the war began with the Royal Australian Air Force at the Battle of Buna–Gona in November 1942, and with the British Desert Air Force in the North African Campaign the following year. \n\nDespite prior close air support experiences beginning in World War I, the United States had no forward air control capability when World War II began. Although forward air control techniques were perfected by such US units as the 1st Air Commando Group in the China Burma India Theater, they would be ignored in the war's aftermath.\n\nAttempts to coordinate air strikes with the needs of ground forces began during World War I. Forward air control techniques were further developed during the Rif War (Morocco) and the Banana Wars (Central America and Caribbean) of the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nWhen the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) was founded on 20 June 1941, it included provisions for Air Ground Control Parties to serve with the United States Army at the division, corps, and Army headquarters. The Air Ground Control Parties functions were to regulate bombing and artillery in close conjunction with the ground troops, as well as assess bomb damage. They were thus the first of similar units to try to fulfill the functions of the forward air controller (FAC) without being airborne. However, these units were often plagued by interservice rivalry and cumbersome communications between the respective armies and air forces involved. As a result, it could take hours for an air strike requested by ground troops to actually show up.\n\nHowever, the advent of World War II did not lead to a functional US air control system; the 1942 edition of the American Field Manual 31-35 did not even mention a forward air controller. Forward air control during World War II came into existence as a result of exigency, and was used in several theaters of World War II. Its reincarnation in action was a result of field expedience rather than planned operations.\n\nWhile rebuilding the Wehrmacht during the 1930s, the German military valued coordination between strike aircraft and ground troops. When they launched their attack on Poland in September 1939, Stuka fighter-bomber pilots accompanying the blitzkrieg effectively directed air strikes via radio.\n\nDuring Operation Barbarossa, in late 1941, Generaloberst Wolfram von Richthofen circled over retreating Russian troops in a Fieseler Storch and called in Stukas and other German ground attack aircraft on them.\n\nForward air controllers were first used by the British Desert Air Force in North Africa, but not by the USAAF until operations in Salerno. During the North African Campaign in 1941 the British Army and the Royal Air Force established Forward Air Support Links (FASL), a mobile air support system using ground vehicles. Light reconnaissance aircraft would observe enemy activity and report it by radio to the FASL which was attached at brigade level. The FASL was in communication (a two-way radio link known as a \"tentacle\") with the Air Support Control (ASC) Headquarters attached to the corps or armoured division which could summon support through a Rear Air Support Link with the airfields. They also introduced the system of ground direction of air strikes by what was originally termed a \"Mobile Fighter Controller\" traveling with the forward troops. The controller rode in the \"leading tank or armoured car\" and directed a \"cab rank\" of aircraft above the battlefield.\n\nIn March 1943, a British air controller was essential at the Battle of the Mareth Line; he directed 412 strike sorties, forcing German troops to retreat from their defensive positions with heavy casualties.\n\nBy the time the Italian Campaign had reached Rome, the Allies had established air superiority. They were then able to pre-schedule strikes by fighter-bomber squadrons; however, by the time the aircraft arrived in the strike area, oftimes the targets, which were usually trucks, had fled. The initial solution to fleeting targets was the British \"Rover\" system. These were pairings of air controllers and army liaison officers at the front; they were able to switch communications seamlessly from one brigade to another—hence Rover. Incoming strike aircraft arrived with pre-briefed targets, which they would strike 20 minutes after arriving on station only if the Rovers had not directed them to another more pressing target. Rovers might call on artillery to mark targets with smoke shells, or they might direct the fighters to map grid coordinates, or they might resort to a description of prominent terrain features as guidance. However, one drawback for the Rovers was the constant rotation of pilots, who were there for fortnightly stints, leading to a lack of institutional memory. US commanders, impressed by British at the Salerno landings, adapted their own doctrine to include many features of the British system.\n\nCall signs for the Rovers were \"Rover Paddy\" and \"Rover David\" for the RAF; the names were those of the fighter pilots who originated the idea. The American version was \"Rover Joe\". Rover Joe was not an individual, but an ad hoc unit consisting of a pilot as forward air controller, a ground forward air controller, and fifteen enlisted men, including communications specialists and other ranks. The unit could move right along with the ground forces it supported.\n\nIt soon became apparent that air strikes could be used even beyond the range of marking artillery, and that better target marking methods were needed. This led to the Horsefly FACs. There are two accounts of the origin of the Horsefly FACs; both may be true, as they are not contradictory.\n\nRegardless of inspiration, the first Horsefly FACs were launched on 28 June 1944. The scrounged L-5s had been equipped with SCR-522 VHF radios, and were flown by volunteer fighter-bomber pilots. Fighter-bomber squadrons were instructed that FAC missions had priority in targeting. The Horseflies operated at an altitude of 3,000 to 4,000 feet, ranging above small arms fire, roving up to 20 miles inside German lines, and marking targets with smoke bombs. To aid the strike pilots in seeing the tiny liaison craft, the upper wing surfaces were painted with one of four bright colors. Call signs were keyed to these colors: Horsefly Red, Green, Yellow, or Blue. When the German ground troops realized that the silvery-bottomed Horseflies were deadly, they concentrated fire on them. The counter to that was to paint the Horseflies the same khaki as ordinary artillery spotters. The Germans then became leery of firing on any of the khaki observation aircraft.\n\nThe Horseflies were obviously susceptible to enemy air attack and ground fire; they also added radio traffic to an already overburdened network. However, their effectiveness outweighed their disadvantages. The Horseflies became an integral part of XII Tactical Air Command, and moved with them from Italy to southern France to southern Germany. The Horseflies saw action until the end of the European war. Horsefly losses amounted to one L-5 wiping out its landing gear in a landing accident.\n\nWith the invasion of Europe (D Day), fighter-bombers began a new direct support role, operating with the assistance of radio-equipped FACs on the ground with the supported formations. Allied tanks were emblazoned with a new white star on their turret tops. Cerise and yellow signal panels were provided to the 3rd Army troops. At least 10 tanks in every armored division were fitted with VHF sets to contact aircraft overhead. Fighter bombers were on call from \"Cab Ranks\", orbiting points close to the forward edge of the battle area. Although already briefed for a target, the fighter-bombers would first await a call to strike an immediately pressing target. From these Cab Ranks, the FACs could very quickly call on air support for any targets of opportunity or threats to the troops in their area, with uncalled upon aircraft striking their briefed target. These ground FACs operated from White Scout Cars or Half Tracks (and later tanks) equipped with a wide range of radio sets for both ground to air and ground to ground communications. Airborne FACs were supplied from the Air Observation Post Squadrons (pilots and observers generally came from the Army) of the RAF operating Auster IV.\n\nIn November 1942, units of the Australian and United States Armies were fighting the Japanese in the Battle of Buna-Gona, New Guinea. Number 4 Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force was an army cooperation squadron flying support for the ground effort, in outdated two-seater CAC Wirraway trainers. They sometimes used the second seat to carry an observer. The local terrain was jungled; ground troops had difficulty in observing the enemy or in staying linked with one another. Therefore, the Wirraway pilots, with their superior observation, began directing artillery fire onto the Japanese from the air via radio, as well as carrying out their own strafing and bombing. One pilot, Pilot Officer J. Archer, even shot down a Japanese Zero, for the only known aerial victory by an Australian FAC.\n\nIn early 1943 the Japanese launched an offensive against Wau. On 3 February 1943, a 4 Squadron Wirraway recced (performed Reconnaissance mission) Japanese dispositions at 1:20 PM. It left, to return at 2:39 leading the Bristol Beaufighters of 30 Squadron RAAF into the target area. The Wirraway marked the target with tracer fire, and the Beaufighters struck. A Japanese prisoner captured shortly thereafter reported that out of the 60 troops in his vicinity, 40 had been killed by the air strike. Later, in December 1944, 4 Squadron directed the US 7th Fighter Squadron as they supported an Australian army attack in the Battle of Shaggy Ridge.\n\nThe other cooperation squadron in the theater, 5 Squadron, also took up the forward air control role. Both squadrons were re-equipped with the CAC Boomerang, which was an Australian fighter-bomber containing many Wirraway components. The Boomerangs had performance comparable to enemy fighters, and became the original fast FACs. Dissatisfaction with the poor target marking possible with tracer bullets led to 5 Squadron's use of 30 pound phosphorus bombs on Bougainville in 1944. During the Bougainville campaign, FACs from 5 Squadron directed as many as 20 Corsairs at a time in air strikes. With practice, ordnance came to be delivered as close as 150 yards from friendly troops.\n\nAmerican aerial attackers in the Aleutian islands had to contend with fog and low-lying cloud cover, as well as heavy Japanese defensive ground fire. The situation led to the use of forward air control. On 16 May 1943, General Eugene M. Landrum ordered his air chief of staff, Colonel William O. Eareckson to coordinate air strikes with ground operations for the invasion of Attu. Eareckson borrowed an OS2U Kingfisher from the USS Casco (AVP-12). Using the seaplane's low speed and maneuverability to his advantage, Eareckson flew reconnaissance missions to spot Japanese positions. He would then spiral up through the clouds to rendezvous with strike aircraft and either lead the strike into the targets or describe the target location to the fighter-bombers. Ground fire not only hit the Kingfisher; it sometimes punctured the plane's single float. Eareckson would land in shallow water, beach the plane, and plug the bullet holes with rubber plugs before resuming his mission.\n\nPathfinders in the European Theater flew advance missions to mark targets for strategic bombing raids; however, they were not providing close air support to troops. The Pathfinders in the Pacific campaign operated slightly differently than their European pathfinder counterparts and pioneered a number of military \"firsts\". such as medevacing wounded by air and the use of helicopters in warfare.\n\nThe Pacific Pathfinder mission began at the Quebec Conference in August 1943. President Franklin D. Roosevelt was impressed by British General Orde Wingate's account of what could be accomplished in Burma with proper air support. To comply with Roosevelt's proposed air support for British long range penetration operations in Burma, the United States Army Air Forces created the 5318th Air Unit to support the Chindits. In March 1944, they were designated the 1st Air Commando Group by USAF General Hap Arnold. Arnold chose Colonel John R. Alison and Colonel Philip Cochran as to command the Air Commando Group. When Wingate's Chindits launched Operation Thursday, each of its columns had a forward air controller to direct support from Mitchell and Mustang aircraft.\n\nIn an imaginative move prompted by Colonel Cochran's assurance that he could transport both troops and supplies by glider, In three months, 600 sorties by Dakota transport aircraft transferred 9,000 troops, 1,300 pack animals and 245 tons of supplies to landing zones across Burma. When the Burma road was reopened in January 1945 the Air Commandos were inactivated in preparation for the invasion of mainland Japan.\n\nThe United States would end World War II still without a settled air control doctrine. When the U.S. Air Force split from the U.S. Army in 1947, neither carried out the responsibility for forward air control; the U.S. military thus had no forward air control function when the Korean War broke out.\n\n"}
{"id": "43975015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43975015", "title": "Frente Juvenil Revolucionario", "text": "Frente Juvenil Revolucionario\n\nFrente Juvenil Revolucionario (FJR) is the youth organization of the Mexican Partido Revolucionario Institucional PRI. The main activities is the formation of young men and women that want to participate in political life in Mexico. This youth organization was a member of the World Federation of Democratic Youth.\n"}
{"id": "1491341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491341", "title": "International Patent Institute", "text": "International Patent Institute\n\nThe International Patent Institute (or IIB standing for \"Institut International des Brevets\", its French name) was an intellectual property organisation established on June 6, 1947 in The Hague, Netherlands, by a set of European countries, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. It was integrated into the European Patent Organisation on January 1, 1978. Its purpose was to centralize patent searching and archiving as well as the resources needed for the prior art searches for its member countries.\n\nThe integration of the International Patent Institute into the European Patent Organisation led in practice to the creation of the branch of the European Patent Office (EPO) at Rijswijk in The Netherlands (a suburb of The Hague). This branch still exists and is one of three locations of the EPO (along with Munich and Berlin) where European patent applications may be filed.\n\n"}
{"id": "24234345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24234345", "title": "Jack Gladstone", "text": "Jack Gladstone\n\nJack Gladstone was a Guianese slave who led the Demerara Slave rebellion of 1823, one of the biggest slave revolts in the British colonies.\n\nHe was tried after the rebellion, and was deported.\n\nJack and his father, Quamina, an African-born enslaved carpenter, lived and worked on Success plantation in Demerara. He is surnamed Gladstone, as the enslaved adopted surnames of their masters by convention. Sir John Gladstone, who had never set foot on his plantation, had acquired half share in the plantation in 1812 through mortgage default; he acquired the remaining half four years later. Until 1828, the estate was entrusted to Frederick Cort, who was fired for being \"an idler and a deceiver\" who had mismanaged one estate after another.\n\nJack was a cooper on the plantation. As a slave who did not work under a driver, he enjoyed considerable freedom to roam about. He was a free spirit, and passionate man who despised limitations on his freedom; he was aware of the debate about slavery in Britain, and was made extremely listless by rumours of emancipation papers arriving from London. Jack was tall and debonair, and possessed \"European features\" — he stood at six feet two inches, was intelligent, and had a reputation as a \"wild fellow\". Jack had been baptised, was occasionally a \"teacher\", but was not a regular churchgoer because he was too restless to follow church rules. He had taken Susanna, a slave on \"Le Resouvenir\" who was on Rev. Smith's congregation, to his wife. However, in April 1812, Quamina had found out that she had become the mistress of John Hamilton, the manager at 'Le Resouvenir'. Rev. Smith reacted angrily, and she was expelled her from the flock by unanimous vote when she had refused to terminate the relationship. When Susanna left, Jack married a slave on Chateau Margo plantation, but would continue to have relations with several other women on the same plantation, to the disdain of both the owner of Margo and the manager at Success.\n\nDa Costa puts Jack's age at around 30 at the time of the rebellion. Following the arrival of news from Britain that measures aimed at improving the treatment of slaves in the colonies had been passed, Jack had heard a rumour that their masters had received instructions to set them free but were refusing to do so. He wrote a letter (signing his father's name) to the members of the chapel informing them of the \"new law\". Meanwhile, his father Quamina supported the idea of a peaceful strike, and made the fellow slaves promise not to use violence. Jack led tens of thousands of slaves to raise up against their masters. The very low number of white deaths is proof that the uprising was largely peaceful – Plantation owners, managers and their families were locked up and not harmed. After the slaves' defeat in a major battle at \"Bachelor's Adventure\", Jack fled into the woods. A \"handsome reward\" of one thousand guilder was offered for his capture. Jack and Quamina remained at large until Jack and his wife were captured by Capt. McTurk at \"Chateau Margo\". Leading up to it, McTurk had received information on 6 September from a slave about Jack's whereabouts; there was a three-hour standoff. Quamina evaded capture for several days longer. At its end, and the slaves' defeat, hundreds of slaves were executed as ringleaders, including Quamina. Jack Gladstone was sold and deported to Saint Lucia. His legacy was to help bring attention to the plight of sugar plantation slaves, accelerating the abolition of slavery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15200752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15200752", "title": "John Underwood (PR adviser)", "text": "John Underwood (PR adviser)\n\nJohn Underwood is a PR adviser, now executive director of Freshwater UK PLC. He founded the Clear consultancy in 1991 after work as a reporter and presenter for the BBC, ITV and Channel 4, including many editions of \"After Dark\". He was Director of Communications for the British Labour Party from June 1990 to June 1991.\n\nHe hit the news in November 2006 for being behind an \"independent\" report that recommended the closure of a popular Hertfordshire hospital, in line with government policy. He was again in the news in January 2008 for setting up the mysterious Progressive Policies Forum, an organization with no employees and apparently engaged in no activity other than channelling funds to the election campaign of Peter Hain for the deputy leadership of the Labour Party in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "42096663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42096663", "title": "Juliette Hampton Morgan", "text": "Juliette Hampton Morgan\n\nJuliette Hampton Morgan (February 21, 1914 – July 16, 1957) was a librarian and civil rights activist in Montgomery, Alabama. The only daughter from a well-to-do white family, Morgan was an early member of the community that pushed for integration. As a librarian she often spoke out against the acts of injustice she witnessed against African-Americans by writing letters to the \"Montgomery Advertiser\", the local newspaper. She was castigated by the community for her racial views and was targeted by segregationists who broke her windows and burned a cross in her front yard. Unable to bear the strain caused by the unrelenting retaliation caused by her views, she took her own life.\n\nJuliette Morgan was an only child, born to Frank P. and Lila Bess Olin Morgan of Montgomery, Alabama. Her family was very prominent in the community and were seventh-generation Southerners. Among the friends of the Morgan’s were Zelda and F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Tallulah Bankhead. Morgan attended Sidney Lanier High School, a prestigious school in Montgomery. In 1934 Morgan graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa with a degree in both English literature and political science. She went on to get her master's degree in English the next year.\nAfter graduation, Morgan returned to Montgomery to become a public school teacher at her former high school. In 1942 she became a reference librarian in Montgomery's Carnegie Library where she was eventually promoted to the director of research at the Montgomery Public Library.\n\nMorgan was active in many associations after she graduated from college. She joined Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal Club, the Southern Conference Educational Fund, and the Alabama Council on Human Relations (of which she was one of the few white members ). She often wrote in to the local newspaper, the \"Montgomery Advertiser\", in support of federal anti-lynching laws and to abolish to poll tax.\n\nMorgan's first public statements regarding social justice issues came in 1932 when she spoke out in defense of motherhood and special training for women such as home economics classes, and extended her support for creating a federal department of child welfare. In 1938, she wrote letters in defense of \"the Southern Woman\", challenging the preconceived notions of the era.\n\nMorgan also became involved in an interracial women’s prayer group, the Fellowship of the Concerned. Meetings for the group had to be held in African-American churches; white churches refused to allow the group to use their facilities because integrated meetings violated the city’s municipal code. It was during this time that Morgan became more active in civil rights.\n\nThough Morgan was quite wealthy and could afford a car, she suffered from severe anxiety which prohibited her from driving. Due to this, Morgan took the city buses from her home, where she lived with her mother, to her position with the Montgomery Public Library. She would frequently witness the unjust treatment of the African-American riders by the white bus drivers. One incident in particular made Morgan angry. Morgan witnessed an African-American woman proceeding with the custom of the time: she paid her fare in the front of the bus, exited the bus, and proceeded to the rear door to get on the back of the bus. On this occasion, however, the bus driver sped away as the woman tried to re-enter. Fed up, Morgan jumped to her feet and pulled the emergency cord, stopping the bus. She yelled at the bus driver and demanded that he let the woman back in the bus. Morgan would continue to repeat this action when necessary for several years.\n\nMorgan’s letter writing did come at a price as many members of the white community began to shun her publicly. She was even fired from a bookstore job she had after she had just graduated from college because of a letter she had published in the newspaper.\n\nOn December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks was arrested after refusing to give up her seat and move to the back of a Montgomery city bus. Eleven days later, on December 12, 1955, Morgan wrote another letter to the editor of the \"Montgomery Advertiser\" in support of Ms. Parks and the boycott that followed. She stated in her letter:\nThe Negroes of Montgomery seem to have taken a lesson from Gandhi... Their own task is greater than Gandhi's however, for they have greater prejudice to overcome. One feels that history is being made in Montgomery these days... It is hard to imagine a soul so dead, a heart so hard, a vision so blinded and provincial as not to be moved with admiration at the quiet dignity, discipline and dedication with which the Negroes have conducted their boycott.\n\nMorgan began to receive hate mail and threatening phone calls in retaliation for expressing her racial views. W.A. Gayle, the Mayor of Montgomery and a member of the segregationist White Citizens' Council, threatened the library council and demanded that they fire Morgan. The library council refused, stating that such a decision would violate her First Amendment rights.\nPrivately, however, library officials asked that Morgan not write any more letters. Many white patrons had destroyed their library cards and boycotted the institution in protest of Morgan's views. Morgan agreed to discontinue her letter writing for the sake of the library, and halted her letters for nearly a year.\n\nEventually, Morgan could no longer remain silent and resumed her letter writing. In 1956, Morgan wrote to newspapers strongly disapproving of the expulsion of University of Alabama student Autherine Lucy, the first black student to attend the university.\n\nIn January, 1957, Buford Boone, editor of the \"Tuscaloosa News\", came to Montgomery. There he spoke out against racial injustice and publicly blamed the White Citizens' Council for the increase in violence seen in the community over the past year. Morgan later wrote a letter of private praise directly to Boone where she stated:\n\nThere are so many Southerners from various walks of life that know you are right. [...] They know what they call 'our Southern way of life' must inevitably change. Many of them even are eager for change, but are afraid to express themselves – so afraid to stand alone, to walk out naked as it were. Everyone who speaks as you do, who has the faith to do what he believes right in scorn of the consequences, does great good in preparing the way for a happier and more equitable future for all Americans. You help redeem Alabama's very bad behavior in the eyes of the nation and the world. I had begun to wonder if there were any men in the state – any white men – with any sane evaluation of our situation here in the middle of the Twentieth Century, with any good will, and most especially with any moral courage to express it.\n\nBoone wanted to publish Morgan’s letter in the newspaper but she refused, citing her agreement with the library to not publish any more letters. Boone insisted, telling her that publicly stating her views would inspire others. Morgan relented and on January 14, 1957 the \"Tuscaloosa News\"printed her letter.\n\nSoon after the letter was published, Morgan began to receive more hate mail and obscene phone calls. Her few remaining friends abandoned her and even her own mother lamented at the damage she was supposedly doing to the family name. The public abuse went on for months. Once again, the mayor again demanded that the library fire Morgan, but the superintendent and library board remained staunch in their support of Morgan’s right to Freedom of Speech. When funding for the city library was reduced in the amount of Morgan's salary, it became clear that the end of her position was near.\n\nOn July 15, 1957, she returned home to find a cross was burning on her front lawn and all of her windows smashed. She resigned her position at the library the next day. On July 16, 1957, Morgan’s mother found her daughter dead; next to her lay an empty bottle of sleeping pills. She had written a suicide letter that said \"I am not going to cause any more trouble to anybody.\"\n\nOn July 16, a few of Morgan’s remaining friends attempted to attend her funeral. However, because the service was segregated, they left in silent protest.\nThe Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. later wrote about Morgan’s heroic struggle and the price she paid in his book, \"\". King wrote:\nAbout a week after the protest started, a white woman who understood and sympathized with the Negroes' efforts wrote a letter to the editor of the \"Montgomery Advertiser\" comparing the bus protest with the Gandhian movement in India. Miss Juliette Morgan, sensitive and frail, did not long survive the rejection and condemnation of the white community, but long before she died in the summer of 1957, the name of Mahatma Gandhi was well known in Montgomery.\n\nOn March 3, 2005, Juliette Hampton Morgan was inducted into the Alabama Women's Hall of Fame. Later that year, the Montgomery City Council voted to rename the main public library The Juliette Hampton Morgan Memorial Library.\n\n"}
{"id": "3831056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3831056", "title": "League of towns", "text": "League of towns\n\nA league of towns (in German: \"Städtebund\") is an alliance of two or more, usually geographically close, towns and/or cities for the protection of their political and/or economic interests. \n\nThe term predominantly refers to medieval leagues of towns (since the 13th century), which usually became important economic, political and even religious factors in their respective countries, but it is also used for the ancient world and for modern town alliances.\n\nExamples: Rheinischer Städtebund\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158012", "title": "Letter of credence", "text": "Letter of credence\n\nA letter of credence () is a formal diplomatic letter that appoints a diplomat as ambassador to another sovereign state. Commonly known as diplomatic credentials, the letter is addressed from one head of state to another, asking him to give credence () to whatever the ambassador may say on his country's behalf. The letter is presented personally by the ambassador to the receiving head of state in a formal ceremony, marking the beginning of the ambassadorship.\n\nLetters of credence are traditionally written in French, the \"lingua franca\" of diplomacy. However, they may also be written in the official language of the sending state.\n\nUpon arrival at his post, an ambassador meets with the foreign minister to arrange for an audience with the head of state. The ambassador carries both a sealed original and an unsealed copy of his credentials. The unsealed copy is given to the foreign minister upon arrival, and the original is presented personally to the head of state in a formal ceremony. Ambassadors do not begin their duties until their credentials are accepted, and their precedence within the diplomatic corps is determined by the date on which the credentials were presented. However, ambassadors are entitled to diplomatic immunity as soon as they enter the country.\n\nThe ambassador travels to the presentation ceremony in an official vehicle provided by the receiving state, accompanied by a military escort. In constitutional monarchies and parliamentary democracies, the head of state or viceroy acts according to advice (binding instructions) from the government. The foreign minister will \"attend\" (be present with) the head of state at the actual ceremony, to symbolize the fact that the credentials are being accepted on the basis of government advice. The ambassador uses both hands to present his credentials to the head of state.\n\nWhen two countries maintain relations at the chargé d'affaires level, the letter of credence will be written by the foreign minister of the sending state and addressed to the foreign minister of the receiving state. The chargé will present his credentials to the foreign minister. The head of state is neither addressed nor presented with the credentials, symbolizing the lower level of diplomatic relations between the countries. The chargé is not entitled to a military escort or an official car.\n\nHigh commissioners from Commonwealth nations do not present letters of credence. When two Commonwealth realms share the same British monarch as head of state, the prime minister of the sending state writes an informal letter of introduction to the prime minister of the receiving state. When a Commonwealth nation is a republic, high commissioners are dispatched and received with letters of commission, which are written by one head of state and presented to another head of state. Both forms of letters were standardized in 1950–1951 after India became a republic, replacing a chaotic system where some high commissioners carried letters from the prime minister, some carried letters from the minister of external relations, and others carried no letters at all.\n"}
{"id": "173279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173279", "title": "Ley line", "text": "Ley line\n\nLey lines are apparent alignments of landmarks, religious sites, and man-made structures. The pseudoscientific belief that these apparent lines are not accidental speculates that they are straight navigable paths and have spiritual significance.\n\nThe phrase was coined in 1921 by the amateur archaeologist Alfred Watkins, who identified apparent alignments of places of geographical and historical interest, such as ancient monuments, ridge-tops and fords. In his books \"Early British Trackways\" and \"The Old Straight Track\", he sought to identify prehistoric trackways in the British landscape. Watkins later developed theories that these alignments were created for ease of overland travel by line-of-sight navigation during neolithic times, and had persisted in the landscape over millennia.\nThe writer John Michell revived the term \"ley lines\", associating it with spiritual and mystical theories about alignments of land forms, drawing on the Chinese concept of feng shui. He believed that a mystical network of ley lines existed across Britain, a notion actively promoted by \" The Ley Hunter\" magazine, edited at the time by his biographer, Paul Screeton.\n\nOther authors have applied similar approaches to many other landscapes.\n\nThe ley line hypothesis is a type of pseudoscience. A random distribution of a sufficient number of points on a plane will inevitably create alignments of random points purely by chance.\n\nThe concept of \"ley lines\" originated with Alfred Watkins in his books \"Early British Trackways\" and \"The Old Straight Track\", though Watkins also drew on earlier ideas about alignments; in particular he cited the work of the English astronomer Norman Lockyer, who argued that ancient alignments might be oriented to sunrise and sunset at solstices.\n\nOn 30 June 1921, Alfred Watkins visited Blackwardine in Herefordshire, and had been driving along a road near the village (which has now virtually disappeared). Attracted by the nearby archaeological investigation of a Roman camp, he stopped his car to compare the landscape on either side of the road with the marked features on his much used map. While gazing at the scene around him and consulting the map, he saw, in the words of his son, \"like a chain of fairy lights\" a series of straight alignments of various ancient features, such as standing stones, wayside crosses, causeways, hill forts, and ancient churches on mounds. He realized immediately that the potential discovery had to be checked from higher ground when, during a revelation, he noticed that many of the footpaths there seemed to connect one hilltop to another in a straight line.\n\nHe subsequently coined the term \"ley\" at least partly because the lines passed through places whose names contained the syllable \"ley\", stating that philologists defined the word (spelled also as lay, lea, lee, or leigh) differently, but had misinterpreted it. He believed this was the ancient name for the trackways, preserved in the modern names. The ancient surveyors who supposedly made the lines were given the name \"dodmen\". Watkins believed that, in ancient times, when Britain was far more densely forested, the country was criss-crossed by a network of straight-line travel routes, with prominent features of the landscape being used as navigation points. This observation was made public at a meeting of the Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club of Hereford in September 1921.\nHis work referred to G. H. Piper's paper presented to the Woolhope Club in 1882, which noted that: \"A line drawn from the Skirrid-fawr mountain northwards to Arthur's Stone would pass over the camp and southern most point of Hatterall Hill, Oldcastle, Longtown Castle, and Urishay and Snodhill castles.\" It has also been suggested that Watkins' speculation (he called it 'surmise') stemmed from reading an account in September 1870 by William Henry Black given to the British Archaeological Association in Hereford titled \"Boundaries and Landmarks\", in which he speculated that \"Monuments exist marking grand geometrical lines which cover the whole of Western Europe\".\nHe published his book \"Early British Trackways\" the following year, commenting: \"I knew nothing on June 30th last of what I now communicate, and had no theories\".\n\nAlfred Watkins theorised that St. Ann's Well in Worcestershire is the start of a ley line that passes along the ridge of the Malvern Hills through several springs including the Holy Well, Walms Well, and St. Pewtress Well.\n\nJohn Michell theorised that Whiteleaved Oak is the centre what he called the \"Circle of Perpetual Choirs\" and is equidistant from Glastonbury, Stonehenge, Goring-on-Thames and Llantwit Major, the latter being across the wide Severn Estuary. Further evidence was sought by the British Society of Dowsers. The elipse was used as background material by Phil Rickman in his novel \"The Remains of an Altar\" (2006).\n\nHis contemporary, Paul Devereux, dubbed a 10-mile line he drew the \"Malvern Ley\" passing through St Ann's Well, the Wyche Cutting, a section of the Shire Ditch, Midsummer Hill, Whiteleaved Oak, Redmarley D'Abitot and Pauntley.\n\nTheorised as corroborative of certain alleged ley lines is the existence of cursuses, massive parallel ravines dug by people between 3400 and 3000 BCE. Ranging in length from 50 metres to several kilometers, their exact function remains unknown though they are commonly believed to have been used for ceremonial processions. Many encompass Neolithic graves and monuments. However, while some cursuses are relatively straight, others have curves and sharp turns; thus a counterargument runs that, at least in those centuries, the broadly spread group of ancient Britons who engineered such structures had no strong preference for straight lines.\n\nWatkins' work met with early scepticism from archaeologists, one of whom, O. G. S. Crawford, refused to accept advertisements for \"The Old Straight Track\" (1925) in the journal \"Antiquity\". Since 1989, refutations of Watkins' ideas have been generally based on mathematical methods such as statistics and shape analysis.\n\nOne criticism of Watkins' ley line theory states that given the high density of historic and prehistoric sites in Britain and other parts of Europe, finding straight lines that \"connect\" sites is trivial and ascribable to coincidence. A statistical analysis of lines concluded: \"the density of archaeological sites in the British landscape is so great that a line drawn through virtually anywhere will 'clip' a number of sites.\" \n\nA study by David George Kendall used the techniques of shape analysis to examine the triangles formed by standing stones to deduce if these were often arranged in straight lines. The shape of a triangle can be represented as a point on the sphere, and the distribution of all shapes can be thought of as a distribution over the sphere. The sample distribution from the standing stones was compared with the theoretical distribution to show that the occurrence of straight lines was no more than average.\n\nArchaeologist Richard Atkinson once demonstrated this by taking the positions of telephone boxes and pointing out the existence of \"telephone box leys\". This, he argued, showed that the mere existence of such lines in a set of points does not prove that the lines are deliberate artefacts, especially since it is known that telephone boxes were \"not\" laid out in any such manner or with any such intention.\n\nIn 1969, the British author John Michell, who had previously written on the subject of UFOs, published \"The View Over Atlantis\", in which he revived Watkins' ley line theories and linked them with the Chinese concept of feng shui.\nThe book, published by Sago Press, proved popular and was reprinted in Great Britain by Garnstone Press in 1972 and Abacus in 1973, and in the United States by Ballantine Books in 1972. Gary Lachman states that \"The View Over Atlantis\" \"put Glastonbury on the countercultural map.\" Ronald Hutton described it as \"almost the founding document of the modern earth mysteries movement\".\n\nMichell's mingling Watkins' amateur archaeology with Chinese spiritual concepts of land-forms led to many new theories about the alignments of monuments and natural landscape features. Writers made use of Watkins' terminology in service of concepts related to dowsing and New Age beliefs, including the ideas that ley lines have spiritual power or resonate a special psychic or mystical energy.\nAscribing such characteristics to ley lines has led to the term being classified as pseudoscience. New Age occultists claim ley lines are sources of power or energy. According to Robert T. Carroll, there is no evidence for this belief save the usual subjective certainty based on uncontrolled observations by untutored devotees. Nevertheless, advocates claim that the alleged energy may be related to magnetic fields. None of this has been scientifically verified.\n\nIn 2004, John Bruno Hare wrote:\n\nWatkins never attributed any supernatural significance to leys; he believed that they were simply pathways that had been used for trade or ceremonial purposes, very ancient in origin, possibly dating back to the Neolithic, certainly pre-Roman. His obsession with leys was a natural outgrowth of his interest in landscape photography and love of the British countryside. He was an intensely rational person with an active intellect, and I think he would be a bit disappointed with some of the fringe aspects of ley lines today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6478703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6478703", "title": "Livery of seisin", "text": "Livery of seisin\n\nLivery of seisin () is an archaic legal conveyancing ceremony, formerly practised in feudal England and in other countries following English common law, used to convey holdings in property. The term \"livery\" is closely related to if not synonymous with \"delivery\" used in some jurisdictions in contract law or the related law of deeds. The oldest forms of common law provided that a valid conveyance of a feudal tenure in land required physical transfer by the transferor to the transferee in the presence of witnesses of a piece of the ground itself, in the literal sense of a hand-to-hand passing of an amount of soil, a twig, key to a building on that land, or other token.\n\nLivery of seisin could refer to either:\n\n\nThe symbol of livery for a house was the door's ring or hasp; for mills, the \"clap and hopper\"; for a church, a psalm book and keys, and so on.\n\nAccording to Widukind of Corvey, a Saxon in Thuringia was approached by a local who asked to buy the Saxon's torc and bracelets. The local offered him a pile of dirt in exchange for the ornaments, which the Saxon eagerly accepted. The Thuringians thought they had made a good deal until the Saxons claimed the entire country on the basis that the dirt had been a livery of seisin, and made their legal claim good by force of arms.\n\nThe turf and twig ceremony dates from the feudal era but was used regularly in early colonial America allowing the UK nations (after 1707 termed the British) by virtue of their monarch's claims to take sovereign possession over unclaimed lands. The process has taken several forms over the centuries. \n\nBernulf Hodge in \"A History of Malmesbury\" describes the process in at least Wiltshire, discontinued in the late 17th century, as follows:\n\n\"The lucky new Commoner goes to his \"given\" acre and cuts a turf from the selected site and drops two shillings in the hole made. The High Steward [of the County] then twitches him with a twig and sticks the twig in the turf, then hands it to him saying, \"This turf and twig I give to thee, as free as Athelstan gave to me, and I hope a loving brother thou wilt be.\" The High Steward then takes the money out of the hole and the new landowner replaces the turf.\" \n\nUnder the feudal system all land belonged to the monarch and was therefore either held by him directly (the royal demesne) or on his behalf, directly or indirectly.\n\nThose who held land directly on the king’s behalf were known as tenants in chief. When a tenant in chief died without an heir his lands \"escheated\" to (fell into the hands of) the king. If there was an heir, the king kept the lands until a livery of seisin took place: the heir paid a sum of money, a \"relief\", to take lawfully, \"assume possession\" of the land.\n\nIf the heir was under age the king kept the lands until he or she came of age (at 21 for men or 14 for women) and the king received rights of wardship and marriage, collecting the revenues of the estate and disposing of the heir in marriage. He was able to sell these rights to third parties, who were not necessarily the ward's next of kin. These feudal tenures and rights were abolished in the Interregnum, reintroduced and then abolished in the following period of government, the reign of Charles II (1660–1685).\n\nA vestige of the procedure survives in the act by which a candidate is admitted to the office of incumbent in the Church of England. Canon C11 provides: \n\n"}
{"id": "17924199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17924199", "title": "Mark Roberts (businessman)", "text": "Mark Roberts (businessman)\n\nMark Roberts is a Welsh businessman notable for the purchase of approximately sixty United Kingdom titles as Lord of the Manor or Marcher Lord and his legal claims to historical rights associated with them. In several cases he has attempted to profit from the claimed rights. After having some of his rights revoked by a change of law in 2005, and a ruling that Marcher Lords no longer exist in 2008, Robert's only standing legal right is to a moiety of wreck off the coast of some areas of Wales.\n\nIn 2001 Mark Roberts claimed as the Lord of Alstonefield, a title won for £10,000 at auction, to own mineral extraction, hunting and fishing and access rights in the Staffordshire village of Alstonefield.\nHe sought charges of up to £45,000 from residents of Peterstone for access across pathways and verges claimed through the title of Lord Marcher of Trelleck. However, his activities have been curtailed by a change in the law in 2005 meaning that no-one can be charged for access across common land if it can be shown that they have already done so for twenty years.\n\nClaims to extensive sections of foreshore under the title of Lord Marcher of St. David's delayed the planning process for a marina in the town of Fishguard. In 2008 his claim to be Lord Marcher of St Davids was rejected in a High Court action, along with his claims to have certain 'franchise' rights in that capacity. The judge ruled that Mr Roberts only had a limited right to wrecks along stretches of the Pembrokeshire Coastline. He faces estimated costs of over £600,000. In 2008 he lost another legal case, claiming rights over parts of the Severn estuary under the title of Lord Marcher of Magor. In 2015, Roberts attempted to auction leasehold rights to 25 acres of land in Spittal, Pembrokeshire\n\nMr Roberts lives on Friars Point, near Barry, South Wales, and owns Tacticall Radio Hire Ltd. In 2008, Tacticall Radio Hire were involved in a dispute regarding the leasehold of a pensioner's house.\n"}
{"id": "1418762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418762", "title": "Marshal of the Sejm", "text": "Marshal of the Sejm\n\nMarshal of the Sejm also known as Sejm Marshal, Chairman of the Sejm or Speaker of the Sejm (, ) is the speaker (chair) of the Sejm, the lower house of the Polish parliament. The office traces its origins to the 15th century. In modern Poland, the full title is Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland ().\n\nThe Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth also had an office of Sejmik Marshal.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria, from 1861, the chairman of the Provincial Sejm of Galicia with its seat at Lwów bore the title Marszałek krajowy (Province Marshal). The Kingdom of Poland, from 1916 to 1918, used the title Marszałek Rady Stanu (Marshal of the State Council).\n\nIn the Second Polish Republic (1918-1939), the deputies elected one of their number as Marshal of the Sejm for the duration of the Sejm's term. Until 1935 (when superseded by the Senate Marshal), the Marshal or Chairman of the Sejm substituted for the President of Poland in the latter's absence or disability (Acting President of the Republic of Poland).\n\nToday the Marshal of the Sejm is the chairman of the Presidium of the Sejm (\"Prezydium Sejmu\") and the Convention of Seniors (\"Konwent Seniorów\"). The Marshal oversees the work of the Sejm, supervises procedural sessions of the Sejm, and convenes and chairs the proceedings of the Convention of Seniors and the Presidium of the Sejm. He (or she) appoints the Chief of the Chambers (of the \"Sejm\", and of the \"Senat\"), and since 1989 substitutes for the President of Poland in the event of that office's vacancy.\n\nHis/her deputy is the Deputy Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "180192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180192", "title": "Michael Lerner (rabbi)", "text": "Michael Lerner (rabbi)\n\nMichael Lerner (born 1943) is an American political activist, the editor of \"Tikkun\", a progressive Jewish interfaith magazine based in Berkeley, California, and the rabbi of Beyt Tikkun Synagogue in Berkeley.\n\nMichael Lerner was born in 1943 and grew up in the Weequahic section of Newark, New Jersey. In his youth, he attended Far Brook Country Day School, a private school which he characterized as having \"a rich commitment to interdenominational Christianity\". While he has written that he appreciated \"the immense beauty and wisdom of the Christianity to which [he] was being exposed\", he also felt religiously isolated, as the child of passionate Zionists who attended Hebrew school three times a week, while at the same time being heavily exposed to Christian-oriented cultural activities in school. At his own request, in the 7th grade he switched to a public school in the Weequahic neighborhood of Newark, where his peers were, in his estimation, 80% Jewish. He graduated from Weequahic High School in 1960. Lerner received a BA degree from Columbia University. In 1972 he earned a PhD in philosophy from University of California, Berkeley. In 1977 he received a PhD in Clinical/Social Psychology from the Wright Institute in Berkeley, CA. Lerner was married to Nan Fink until 1991, and married Debora Kohn in July 1998, divorced in 2014 and then remarried to Cat Zavis in 2015.\n\nWhile at Berkeley, Lerner became a leader in the Berkeley student movement and the Free Speech Movement, chair of the Free Student Union, and chair from 1966 to 1968 of the Berkeley chapter of the Students for a Democratic Society. After teaching philosophy of law at San Francisco State University, he took a job as an Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the University of Washington and taught ethics, social and political philosophy, philosophy of literature and culture, and introduction to philosophy. Distressed over the disintegration of SDS in 1969, Lerner sought to re-organize New Left cadres formerly associated with SDS in a new organization called the Seattle Liberation Front on January 19, 1970. While SLF did not publicly endorse violence as a political tactic, SLF members including Roger Lippman, Michael Justesen, and Susan Stern were also members of the Weather Underground, which had bombing attacks as a central part of its political strategy. After \"The Day After\" demonstration SLF had called on February 17, 1970 in protest of the January 15 verdict in the Chicago Seven trial turned violent, he and others were arrested for inciting a riot. The subsequent trial was the second nationally known federal trial, following that of the Chicago Seven, against anti-war activists. Lerner's group became known as the \"Seattle Seven.\"\n\nFederal agents testifying at the trial later admitted to having played a major role instigating the violence and the riot. Charges relating to the riot were eventually dropped. However, during the trial, which culminated in a courtroom brawl, (Lerner was the only defendant to remain seated) the presiding judge sent the defendants to jail on \"contempt of court\" charges. Lerner was sentenced and transported to Terminal Island Federal Penitentiary in San Pedro, California, where Lerner served several months before the 9th Circuit Federal Appeals Court ordered Lerner released (despite the claim made by J. Edgar Hoover in a public statement repeated on radio and television that Lerner was \"one of the most dangerous criminals in America\" though he had never engaged in any act of violence). The main charges were eventually dropped by the Federal Government after the 9th Circuit overturned the conviction for contempt of court. Meanwhile, Lerner's contract was not renewed and the State of Washington Legislature had passed \"the Lerner act\" requiring that the University of Washington never hire anyone \"who might engage in illegal political activity,\" a law later overturned by the Washington Supreme Court.\n\nDuring this period Lerner met several times with boxer Muhammad Ali, who was also active in the anti-war movement, at anti-war meetings organized by Lerner. Lerner recounts that Ali was the first practicing Muslim he had ever met. The two never met or spoke again after this period though in 1995 Lerner received a letter from Ali expressing appreciation for Lerner's book \"Jews and Blacks Let the Healing Begin\". Muhammad Ali included an invitation to Lerner to speak at Ali's memorial, to represent progressive Jewish faith, which took place in 2016. Lerner also learned from Ali's lawyer that Ali had been a \"big fan\" of the rabbi's work and that Ali was really sorry that he had not made more contact with Lerner over the past two decades. Ali and his wife had intended to do so many times and just hadn't followed through.\n\nAfter completing his Ph.D. Lerner moved to Hartford, Connecticut where he served as professor of philosophy at Trinity College until 1975, when he moved back to Berkeley, joined the faculty at the University of California in the Field Studies program and taught law and economics until 1976 when he accepted a position at Sonoma State University for one year in sociology, teaching courses in social psychology. Meanwhile, he completed a second Ph.D. in 1977, this one in social/clinical psychology at the Wright Institute in Berkeley.\n\nIn 1976 Lerner founded the Institute for Labor and Mental Health to work with the labor movement and do research on the psychodynamics of American society. In 1979 he received a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health to train union shop stewards as agents of prevention for mental health disorders, and he simultaneously extended his previous study of the psychodynamics of American society. With a subsequent grant from the NIMH he studied American politics and reported that \"a spiritual crisis\" was at the heart of the political transformation of American society as well as at the heart of much of the psychic pain that was being treated in individual therapy.\n\nHis writing reflects a transposition of this analysis to economics too, viz. \"This focus on money and power may do wonders in the marketplace, but it creates a tremendous crisis in our society. People who have spent all day learning how to sell themselves and to manipulate others are in no position to form lasting friendships or intimate relationships... Many Americans hunger for a different kind of society—one based on principles of caring, ethical and spiritual sensitivity, and communal solidarity. Their need for meaning is just as intense as their need for economic security.\" :\n\nAfter serving for five years as dean of the graduate school of psychology at the New College of California (now defunct) in San Francisco, Lerner and his then-wife Nan Fink created a general-interest intellectual magazine called \"Tikkun: A Bimonthly Jewish Critique of Politics, Culture and Society\". \"Tikkun\" was started with the intention of challenging the left for its inability to understand the centrality of religious and spiritual concerns in the lives of ordinary Americans. With his associate editor Peter Gabel, Lerner developed a \"politics of meaning\" (that is, that Americans hunger not only for material security but also for a life that is connected to some higher meaning, and that the failure of the liberal and progressive movements to win a consistent majority support was based on their inability to understand this hunger and to address it by showing Americans and middle income working people in other advanced industrial societies that it was the values of the competitive marketplace and its Bottom Line of money and power that is the fundamental source undermining ethical and spiritual values in the public sphere and then undermining friendships and marriages when these values are brought home into personal life ). This was intended to speak to the hunger for meaning that was characteristic of the thousands of people that Lerner and his colleagues were studying at the Institute for Labor and Mental Health. \"Tikkun\" was formed to educate the public about the findings of the Institute and to develop some of the implications of that work. However, because it also had an interest in being an \"alternative to the voices of Jewish conservatism,\" \"Tikkun\" was criticized by some Jewish groups.\n\nIn 1993, First Lady Hillary Clinton included the \"politics of meaning\" in her synthesis of political and social philosophy she was forming.\n\nIn 2002, Lerner organized a group called the Tikkun Community among readers of \"Tikkun\" magazine and those who share its editorial vision.\n\nLerner received rabbinical ordination in 1995 through a beth din (rabbinical court) composed of three rabbis, \"each of whom had received orthodox rabbinic ordination\". According to \"j. the Jewish news weekly\", \"mainstream rabbinical leaders of the Reform, Conservative and Orthodox movements\" have questioned private ordinations such as Lerner's, arguing that non-seminary ordinations risk producing poorly educated or fraudulent Rabbis. Similarly, some rabbis have challenged Lerner's decision to not be trained for the rabbinate in a classical Jewish seminary (although Lerner did spend three years as a student at Jewish Theological Seminary). Lerner has been quoted in \"Jewish Weekly\" as saying that the non-seminary track is one that \"every Chabad rabbi takes, & every ultra-Orthodox rabbi\". Lerner pointed out that none of the rabbis in Jewish history ever attended a \"seminary\" until the middle of the 19th century, and that most rabbis in Israel today did not attend a seminary. They all got their ordination in the same way Lerner did, through a Beth din composed of three rabbis. When Lerner attacked seminaries for being \"more interested in producing organizational men for Jewish life than spiritual leaders connected to the deepest spiritual and social-justice minds\", Rabbi Alan Lew said \"That is arrogant nonsense ... I spent six years in extremely rigorous, round-the-clock study in the classic texts of our tradition. Authentic Jewish spirituality is in the texts, not in some fancy New Age ideas or watered-down kabbalah\". Lerner's synagogue 'Beyt Tikkun' became an embodiment of what he described as \"neo-Hasidism,\" passionately pursuing the spiritual dimension of the prayers rather than rushing through them. The goal, he insisted, is to connect to God, not simply mouth every prayer in the prayerbook. His synagogue grew, according to members, not only because of Lerner's willingness to take the social justice message of the prophets seriously, but also because the actual experience of being involved in prayer, meditation, singing and dancing in the synagogue became an ecstatic experience of transcendence for many of those who attended. Lerner's 1994 book \"Jewish Renewal: A Path to Healing and Transformation\" published by HarperCollins (and in paperback as a Harper Perennial), became a national best-seller and brought thousands of young people into the emerging Jewish Renewal movement. After studying his background and qualifications, the Northern California Board of Rabbis accepted Lerner as a full member and he has remained a member ever since. Lerner was the first Jewish Renewal rabbi to achieve membership in a local American Board of Rabbis, but since that time in 1997, many local Boards of Rabbis have accepted Jewish Renewal rabbis into full membership.\n\nLerner is the spiritual leader of Beyt Tikkun synagogue in Berkeley, and a member of the Board of Rabbis of Northern California. He is also a member of Ohalah, the organization of Jewish Renewal Rabbis.\n\nIn 2005 Lerner became chair of The Network of Spiritual Progressives whose mission was to \"challenge the materialism and selfishness in American society and to promote an ethos of love, generosity, and awe and wonder at the grandeur of the universe.\" They have since sponsored national conferences on both the East and West Coast. In 2007 Lerner launched a campaign for a \"Global Marshall Plan\".\n\nIn February 2009 Lerner publicly announced he had been diagnosed with lung cancer, and mentioned this in many promotional mailings and published pieces. He was treated with surgery in March 2009 which was apparently successful.\n\nLerner, a rabbi in , promotes the concept of Jewish Renewal, a small Jewish movement which he describes as \"positive Judaism\", rejecting what he considers to be ethnocentric interpretations of the Torah. His publications promote religious pluralism and progressive or liberal approaches to political problems. He has, for example, been outspoken against attacks on immigrant communities in the United States, and has attempted to build bridges with Christian, Buddhist and Muslim leaders around such issues.\n\nLerner's call for a spiritual transformation of American society was first articulated in \"Tikkun\" and then in his book \"The Politics of Meaning\". Lerner developed these ideas further in his books \"Spirit Matters\" (2000) and \"The Left Hand of God\" (2006).\n\nLerner strongly objected to Israel's occupation of the West Bank. He supports the adoption of the Geneva Accords as a basis for an independent Palestinian state.\n\nIn February 2007, Lerner published a column entitled \"There Is No New Anti-Semitism,\" in which he criticized some American Jewish organizations for labeling critics of Israel as antisemites. He was especially critical of the Anti-Defamation League and the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, which he characterized as \"Israel-can-do-no-wrong voices in American politics.\" Lerner wrote that this mentality, which frequently leads to accusations that Jews who oppose Israel's policies toward the Palestinians are \"self-hating Jews,\" is alienating young Jews who \"say that they can no longer identify with their Jewishness.\"\n\nLerner describes some of his views as \"very controversial,\" particularly his views about building peace between Israel and Palestine. In 2003, the \"San Diego Jewish Journal\" described Lerner as \"the most controversial Jew in America,\" writing that \"He is relentlessly critical of Israel. He eulogizes Rachel Corrie. And he's done more for peace than any conservative we know.\" That same year, the executive editor of \"The Jewish Exponent\" wrote that Lerner \"supports every measure against Israel short of its immediate destruction and often makes common cause with those who do plot the eradication of Israel's Jews.\"\n\nIn 1997, former \"Tikkun\" editors accused Lerner of publishing pseudonymous letters to the editor that he himself had written. While many of the letters were laudatory (\"Your editorial stand on Iraq said publicly what many of us in the Israeli peace camp are feeling privately but dare not say.\"), a few were critical (\"Have you gone off your rocker?\"). Lerner admitted that he had fabricated the letters but said his only mistake was not informing readers that the authors' names were pseudonyms.\n\nFor many years, Lerner has been an out-spoken critic of anti-Zionism and modern antisemitism that he perceives to have arisen among some leftists. In 1992, he wrote \"The Socialism of Fools: Anti-Semitism on the Left\", in which he described the manner in which the left often denies the existence of antisemitism; defended Zionism and distinguished legitimate criticism of the State of Israel from Israel-bashing and antisemitism; and suggested ways in which progressives can fight antisemitism on the Left.\n\nIn 2003, Lerner criticized the left-wing anti-war ANSWER Coalition for the antisemitism that he and others believe is reflected in the rhetoric at ANSWER-sponsored demonstrations. He later claimed that because of his criticism the ANSWER coalition — of which Lerner's Tikkun Community was a member — barred him from speaking at their rallies against the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nRegarding the motu proprio Summorum Pontificum, which allows the re-introduction of the Tridentine Mass and the related Good Friday Prayer for the Jews, he said that the Pope took \"a powerful step toward the re-introduction of the process of demeaning Jews. You cannot respect another religion if you teach that those who are part of it must convert to your own religion.\"\n\nBeyt Tikkun Synagogue is a Jewish Renewal congregation in the San Francisco Bay Area, United States. It is a loosely organized unconventional endeavor with a small physical base, that is also described by its founder as a \"synagogue-without-walls\" that since its founding has served as a bully pulpit for its equally unconventional founding-rabbi since its inception.\n\nBeyt Tikkun was founded in 1996 by Rabbi Michael Lerner, and is loosely affiliated with Lerner's \"Tikkun\" magazine. It describes itself as a \"hallachic community bound by Jewish law\".\n\nBeyt Tikkun has no building of its own, and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" as well as \"The New York Times\" called it the \"synagogue-without-walls in San Francisco and Berkeley\".\n\nIn 2010 Lerner, recovering from cancer and needing to avoid commuting to San Francisco where he used to spend Shabbat so that he could avoid paying money on the Sabbath, moved the Beyt Tikkun Synagogue closer to his Berkeley home to the East Bay, near the UC Berkeley campus, on advice of his doctors after cancer surgery.\n\nBeyt Tikkun found itself in the middle of controversies in 2005 and 2007 when it invited anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan to speak during Yom Kippur services.\n\nCode Pink activist Rae Abliea addressed the synagogue, against the Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip, on September 29, 2011.\n\nWhile at the Seminary, Lerner was elected national president of Atid, the college organization of the United Synagogue of America. Lerner was chosen by Utne Reader in 1995 as one of the world's \"100 top visionaries\" along with Vaclav Havel and Noam Chomsky. In 2005 Lerner received the Gandhi, King, Ikeda Community Builders Prize from Morehouse College in Atlanta in recognition of his work in forging a \"progressive middle path that is both pro-Israel and pro-Palestine\" in his book \"Healing Israel/Palestine\" and in his writing in \"Tikkun\" magazine. Tikkun magazine, which Lerner continues to edit, received from the mainstream media organization RNA The Religion Newswriters Association, the \"Best Magazine of the Year\" Award in both 2014 and 2015.\n\nLerner has been a guest on Larry King Live several times. On March 5, 2006, he discussed his book \"The Left Hand of God\" on C-SPAN. Lerner was part of a panel of religious leaders on Meet the Press with Tim Russert on April 16, 2006. He was interviewed on Jewish reactions to the Christian Zionist movement of Rev. Hagee on the Bill Moyers PBS show on October 7, 2007.\n\nLerner delivered a eulogy at the memorial service for Muhammad Ali on June 10, 2016, praising Ali's stances on social justice and calling for an end to antisemitism, homophobia, and Islamophobia. Lerner said \"the way to honor the memory of Muhammad Ali is to be Muhammad Ali today in our own lives.\" \"Tell the leaders of Turkey to stop bombing and murdering their Kurd minority. Tell the U.S. to stop sending military supplies to Saudi Arabia, which is the sponsor of some of the most hate-filled teachings in the Islamic world and is one of the most repressive regimes on the face of the earth.\n\nLerner is one of a small group of Jewish leaders who supported Judge Richard Goldstone after Goldstone released his United Nations report that accused Israel and Hamas of war crimes and possible crimes against humanity during the winter 2009 Gaza War. After Tikkun magazine announced that it would award Goldstone with its Tikkun Award, Lerner's home was vandalized several times, with posters caricaturing him as a Nazi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36836093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36836093", "title": "Movement for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy", "text": "Movement for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy\n\nThe Movement for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy (), abbreviated to MELD, was a national-conservative political party at European level founded in 2011, composed of parties belonging to the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) group in the European Parliament, with the notable absence of the UK Independence Party, which was a member of the EFD, but not of the MELD. In 2012, MELD received a grant from the European Parliament of €621,482. Its affiliated political foundation was the Foundation for a Europe of Liberties and Democracy (FELD), which received a grant of €412,361. Both were headquartered at 18, rue Cler, in Paris, France. The president of the party was Jacek Wlosowicz.\n\nMELD was dissolved in 2015 by the European Parliament due to misuse of EU funding.\n\n"}
{"id": "55297642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55297642", "title": "Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy – Zliten", "text": "Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy – Zliten\n\nThe Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy – Zliten (in Arabic: زليتن مدينة - الدستورية للشرعية العودة حراك) seeks to reinstate the 1951 Constitution of Libya, proclaiming it a symbol of the sovereignty of the nation and a guarantor of unity. Zliten is one of the several cities within Libya that is actively involved in the larger movement, the Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy in Libya.\n\nThe Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy in Libya asserts that the internationally-recognized 1951 Constitution amended in 1963 established a legitimate and independent governing structure for the Libyan homeland and comprises the best solution for Libya’s future. Advocates for the movement in Zliten state that “[Libya’s] Constitution is a national social charter approved by a constituent body representing all the spectrums of the Libyan people […] Allah bless our independence!” \n\nAlong with revival of the 1951 Constitution, the movement, particularly in Zliten, supports the restoration of the Senussi monarchy with heir apparent Prince Mohammed El Senussi, son of Crown Prince Hasan as-Senussi and grandnephew of late King Idris, as its leader. \n\nThe Zliten local movement has an active presence on social media, including 14,786 total “likes” and 14,741 followers on its Facebook page. Below is a selection of posts from its page: \n“Political malice as the purity of the Founding Fathers who have placed it for us, not a commodity in the market of political impurity.” \n\n“The Constitutional Kingdom of Libya achieved social reconciliation and transitional justice […] The Constitutional Kingdom of Libya preserved the sanctity of citizens […] The Constitutional Kingdom of Libya has achieved for its citizens an adequate standard of living.”\n\nThe movement has hosted several events with hundreds of supporters in attendance focused on advocating for the restoration of the 1951 Libyan Constitution.\n\nOn December 24, 2015, the movement hosted an event in Zliten to celebrate the 64th anniversary of the Independence of Libya.\n\nIt hosted another event on February 17, 2016 for the adoption of the national anthem. \n\nOn December 24, 2016, the movement hosted a similar event in support of renewing the campaign to reclaim the deleted part of the national anthem. The details provided were: \n“We call on the Libyan people to contribute to support this campaign aimed at restoring things to normal and a return to consider the leader of independence and founder of the state of modern Libya King The late Muhammad Idris al-Sanusi (may Allaah have mercy on him).”\n\nAn article in support of reestablishing the 1951 Constitution was published in the Washington, D.C.-based Middle East Institute. \n\nThe article refers to the 1963 Constitution as “more than an olive branch” and states the following: \n\n“Libyans will have no choice but to soon make some hard decisions. One such option is returning to the region-conscious 1963 constitution. An earlier constitution in 1951 had granted a great deal of authority to the regions […]The return to the 1963 constitution is gaining momentum in Libya, with several movements, ranging from royalists to pro-democracy activists, calling for an adoption of the constitution.” \n\nA similar article was published in Australia by \"The Australian\" magazine, noting that: \n\n“Libyan monarchists are now quietly resurfacing, amid calls to revive the unifying constitution of 1951. A spokesman for Prince Mohammed said he was “ready to return to Libya if the people demand it […] Monarchy still works in North Africa and the Middle East. The Arab leaders overthrown in 2011 were the heads of republics. The royal dynasties of Morocco and Jordan (another kingdom forged with British support) remain hugely popular while demonstrating a knack for moving with the times.” \n\nThe article also states that:\n\n“A restoration of the Senussi dynasty might help to reunite the warring tribes. Even some militia commanders favour a return of the monarchy. The spiritual status of the Senussi chiefs (Idris described himself as a direct descendant of the Prophet) would offer a strong religious counterpoint to the brutal fundamentalism of Isis.” \n\nLibyan royalists widely consider Prince Mohammed El Senussi, son of Crown Prince Hasan as-Senussi and grandnephew of late King Idris, to be the legitimate heir to the Senussi Crown of Libya. \n\nThe movement in Zliten has voiced its opinion that the natural solution to the Libyan crisis is to reinstate the 1951 Constitution (as amended in 1963) with Crown Prince Mohammed El Senussi as the legitimate leader. The Zliten movement promotes the Prince’s leadership on its Facebook page and frequently circulates articles and speeches from the Prince’s website. \n"}
{"id": "5121186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5121186", "title": "Negotiations to end apartheid in South Africa", "text": "Negotiations to end apartheid in South Africa\n\nThe apartheid system in South Africa was ended through a series of negotiations between 1990 and 1993 and through unilateral steps by the de Klerk government. These negotiations took place between the governing National Party, the African National Congress, and a wide variety of other political organisations. Negotiations took place against a backdrop of political violence in the country, including allegations of a state-sponsored third force destabilising the country. The negotiations resulted in South Africa's first non-racial election, which was won by the African National Congress.\n\nApartheid was a system of racial discrimination and segregation in South African government. It was formalised in 1948, forming a framework for political and economic dominance by the white population and severely restricting the political rights of the black majority.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1990, the African National Congress and other mainly black opposition political organisations were banned. As the National Party cracked down on black opposition to apartheid, most leaders of ANC and other opposition organisations were either killed, imprisoned or went into exile.\n\nHowever, increasing local and international pressure on the government, as well as the realisation that apartheid could neither be maintained by force forever nor overthrown by the opposition without considerable suffering, eventually led both sides to the negotiating table. The Battle of Cuito Cuanavale created a window of opportunity to create the enabling conditions for a negotiated settlement, recognized by Dr Niel Barnard of the National Intelligence Service.\n\nOn 4 January 1974, Harry Schwarz, leader of the liberal-reformist wing of the United Party, met with Gatsha (later Mangosuthu) Buthelezi, Chief Executive Councillor of the black homeland of KwaZulu, and signed a five-point plan for racial peace in South Africa, which came to be known as the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith. The declaration stated that \"the situation of South Africa in the world scene as well as internal community relations requires, in our view, an acceptance of certain fundamental concepts for the economic, social and constitutional development of our country\". The declaration's purpose was to provide a blueprint for government of South Africa for racial peace in South Africa. It called for negotiations involving all peoples, in order to draw up constitutional proposals stressing opportunity for all with a Bill of Rights to safeguard these rights. It suggested that the federal concept was the appropriate framework for such changes to take place. It also affirmed that political change must take place through non-violent means.\n\nThe declaration was the first of such agreements by acknowledged black and white political leaders in South Africa that affirmed to these principles. The commitment to the peaceful pursuit of political change was declared at a time when neither the National Party nor the African National Congress were looking to peaceful solutions or dialogue. The declaration was heralded by the English speaking press as a breakthrough in race relations in South Africa. Shortly after it was issued, the declaration was endorsed by several chief ministers of the black homelands, including Cedric Phatudi (Lebowa), Lucas Mangope (Bophuthatswana) and Hudson Nisanwisi (Gazankulu). Despite considerable support from black leaders, the English speaking press and liberal figures such as Alan Paton, the declaration saw staunch opposition from the National Party, the Afrikaans press and the conservative wing of Harry Schwarz's United Party.\n\nThe very first meetings between the South African Government and Nelson Mandela were driven by the National Intelligence Service (NIS) under the leadership of Niel Barnard and his Deputy Director General, Mike Louw. These meetings were secret in nature and were designed to develop an understanding about whether there were sufficient common grounds for future peace talks. As these meetings evolved, a level of trust developed between the key actors (Barnard, Louw, and Mandela). To facilitate future talks while preserving secrecy needed to protect the process, Barnard arranged for Mandela to be moved off Robben Island to Pollsmoor Prison in 1982. This provided Mandela with more comfortable lodgings, but also gave easier access in a way that could not be compromised. Barnard therefore brokered an initial agreement in principle about what became known as \"talks about talks\". It was at this stage that the process was elevated from a secret engagement to a more public engagement. \nThe first less-tentative meeting between Mandela and the National Party government came while P. W. Botha was State President. In November 1985, Minister Kobie Coetsee met Mandela in the hospital while Mandela was being treated for prostate surgery. Over the next four years, a series of tentative meetings took place, laying the groundwork for further contact and future negotiations, but little real progress was made, and the meetings remained secret until several years later.\n\nAs the secret talks bore fruit and the political engagement started to take place, the National Intelligence Service withdrew from centre stage in the process, and moved to a new phase of operational support work. This new phase was designed to test public opinion about a negotiated solution. Central to this planning was an initiative that became known in Security Force circles as the Dakar Safari, which saw a number of prominent Afrikaner opinion-makers engage with the African National Congress in Dakar, Senegal and Leverkusen, Germany at events organized by the Institute for a Democratic Alternative for South Africa. The operational objective of this meeting was not to understand the opinions of the actors themselves—that was very well known at this stage within strategic management circles—but rather to gauge public opinion about a movement away from the previous security posture of confrontation and repression to a new posture based on engagement and accommodation.\n\nWhen F.W. de Klerk became President in 1989, he was able to build on the previous secret negotiations with the imprisoned Mandela. The first significant steps towards formal negotiations took place in February 1990 when, in his speech at the opening of Parliament, de Klerk announced the repeal of the ban on the African National Congress (ANC) and other banned organisations, and the release of ANC leader Nelson Mandela after 27 years in prison.\n\nThe negotiations began with a meeting between the African National Congress and the South African government on 4 May 1990 at the presidential residence, Groote Schuur. This resulted in the \"Groote Schuur Minute\", a commitment between the two parties towards the resolution of the existing climate of violence and intimidation as well as the removal of practical obstacles to negotiation including immunity from prosecution for returning exiles and the release of political prisoners.\n\nOn 6 August 1990 the South African government and the African National Congress extended the consensus to include several new points. This \"Pretoria Minute\" included the suspension of the armed struggle by the ANC and its military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe as well as bring the state of emergency to an end.\n\nThe \"National Peace Accord\" of 14 September 1991 was a critical step toward formal negotiations. It was signed by representatives of twenty-seven political organisations and national and homeland governments, and prepared the way for the CODESA negotiations.\n\nThe \"Convention for a Democratic South Africa\" (CODESA), under the chairmanship of the judges Michael Corbett, Petrus Shabort and Ismail Mahomed, began with a plenary session on 20 December 1991, almost two years after the unbanning of political parties and the release of Nelson Mandela. The first session lasted a few days, and working groups were appointed to deal with specific issues. These working groups continued their negotiations over the next month. The negotiations took place at the World Trade Centre in Kempton Park.\n\nNineteen groups were represented at CODESA, including the South African government, the National Party, the African National Congress, the Inkatha Freedom Party, the Democratic Party, the South African Communist Party, the South African Indian Congress, the Coloured Labour Party, the Indian National People's Party and Solidarity Party, and the leaders of the nominally independent bantustans of Transkei, Ciskei, Bophuthatswana and Venda.\n\nThe right-wing white Conservative Party and the left-wing Pan Africanist Congress boycotted CODESA. Inkatha Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi personally didn't participate because his demands for additional delegations of the homeland KwaZulu and the Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini were declined. The IFP was therefore represented by Frank Mdlalose at CODESA.\n\nIn the period between CODESA I and CODESA II in early 1992, the National Party lost three by-elections to the Conservative Party. De Klerk announced that a \"whites only\" referendum would be held on the issue of reforms and negotiation. The result was a landslide victory for the \"yes\" side, with over 68% of the voters voting for a continuation of the reforms and negotiations.\n\nCODESA II (the second plenary session) took place in May 1992. In June 1992, the Boipatong massacre took place, with 45 residents of Boipatong killed by mainly-Zulu hostel dwellers. Mandela accused De Klerk's government of complicity in the attack and withdrew the ANC from the negotiations, leading to the end of CODESA II.\n\nThe ANC instead took to the streets with a programme of \"rolling mass action\", which met with tragedy in the Bisho massacre in September 1992, when the army of the nominally independent \"homeland\" of Ciskei opened fire on protest marchers, killing 29. This brought a new urgency to the search for a political settlement.\n\nDuring the negotiations, De Klerk's government pushed for a two-phase transition with an appointed transitional government with a rotating presidency. The ANC pushed instead for a transition in a single stage to majority rule. Other sticking points included minority rights, decisions on a unitary or federal state, property rights, and indemnity from prosecution for politically motivated crimes.\n\nFollowing the collapse of CODESA II, bilateral negotiations between the ANC and the NP became the main negotiation channel. Two key negotiators were Cyril Ramaphosa of the ANC, and Roelf Meyer of the National Party, who formed a close friendship.\n\nIt was Joe Slovo, leader of the South African Communist Party, who in 1992 proposed the breakthrough \"sunset clause\" for a coalition government for the five years following a democratic election, including guarantees and concessions to all sides.\n\nIn the course of the negotiating and reshaping process, the government under De Klerk also had detainees released who were classified as political prisoners at that time. Among those released in 1992 were convicts facing capital punishment such as Barend Strydom and Robert McBride from opposite ends of the political spectrum.\n\nOn 26 September 1992 the government and the ANC agreed on a \"Record of Understanding\". This dealt with a constitutional assembly, an interim government, political prisoners, hostels, dangerous weapons and mass action and restarted the negotiation process after the failure of CODESA.\n\nOn 1 April 1993 the \"Multiparty Negotiating Forum\" (MPNF) gathered for the first time. In contrast to CODESA, the white right (the Conservative Party and the Afrikaner Volksunie), the Pan Africanist Congress, the KwaZulu homeland government and delegations of \"traditional leaders\" initially participated in the Multiparty Negotiating Forum.\n\nFollowing the Record of Understanding, the two main negotiating parties, the ANC and the NP, agreed to reach bilateral consensus on issues before taking them to the other parties in the forum. This put considerable pressure on the other parties to agree with the consensus or be left behind. In protest at the perceived sidelining of the mainly-Zulu Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), Mangosuthu Buthelezi took the IFP out of the MPNF and formed the \"Concerned South Africans Group\" (COSAG; later renamed the \"Freedom Alliance\") together with traditional leaders, homeland leaders and white right-wing groups. A period of brinkmanship followed, with the IFP remaining out of the negotiations until within days of the election on 27 April 1994. Buthelezi was convinced to give up the boycott of the elections, after Mandela offered the Zulu king, Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, a guarantee of special status of the Zulu monarchy, and to Buthelezi, the promise that foreign mediators would examine Inkatha's claims to more autonomy in the Zulu area. This was managed with the help of a foreign team led by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and former British Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington.\n\nOn 10 April 1993, the assassination of Chris Hani, leader of the SACP and a senior ANC leader, by white right-wingers again brought the country to the brink of disaster, but ultimately proved a turning point, after which the main parties pushed for a settlement with increased determination. The assassination of Hani sometimes is considered as an event which led to a shift of power in favour of the ANC because of Nelson Mandela's handling of the situation.\n\nThe negotiations were dramatically interrupted in June 1993 when the right-wing Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging stormed the World Trade Centre in Kempton Park, breaking through the glass front of the building with an armoured car and briefly taking over the negotiations chamber.\n\nThe MPNF ratified the interim Constitution in the early hours of the morning of 18 November 1993. Thereafter, the Transitional Executive Council (TEC) oversaw the run-up to a democratic election.\n\nThe election held on 27 April 1994 resulted in the ANC winning 62% of the vote, and Nelson Mandela becoming president, with De Klerk and Thabo Mbeki as deputies. The National Party, with 20% of the vote, joined the ANC in a Government of National Unity.\n\nTransitional politics continued after the election, with a new constitution finally agreed in 1995, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission dealing with politically motivated crimes committed during the apartheid era.\n"}
{"id": "227585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227585", "title": "No War but the Class War", "text": "No War but the Class War\n\nNo War But The Class War (NWBTCW) is a motto expressing opposition to capitalism used by anarchist and communist groups. It is also the name for a number of anti-authoritarian, anti-capitalist groups.\n\nThe first two NWBTCW groups appeared in London during the 1990–1991 Gulf War and the 1999 Kosovo War. Both groups, which included ex-members of the London-based Class War, dissolved after the respective war they were protesting stopped. The third NWBTCW group appeared in London following the start of the War in Afghanistan in October 2001. Efforts, particularly by the Communist Workers' Organisation, to turn this into a network of groups across Britain failed. A split in the group which was characterised as between theory and practice led to the 'actionists' leaving to form the Disobedients, whose activities included an attempt to occupy Old Street Roundabout along with Critical Mass which was swamped by police much like all the other actions by this group. The 'theorist' section transmuted itself into the No War but the Class War Discussion Group, which eventually also dissolved.\n\nAs a slogan, \"No War But The Class War\" has been used by people not necessarily linked to any of the above groups. It is widely used by diverse Marxist groups as a means of underlining the priority of class struggle above other political aims and as a general anti-militarist slogan.\n\nThe phrase was used in the first episode of the 1975 series \"Days of Hope\", written by Jim Allen and directed by Ken Loach (both socialists), which caused controversy in Britain over its portrayal of the British military during World War I. A socialist who has deserted from the British army says, \"I'm no pacifist. I'll fight in a war, but I'll fight in the only war that counts, and that's the class war, and it'll come when all this lot's over.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35666325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35666325", "title": "Occupy the Farm", "text": "Occupy the Farm\n\nOccupy the Farm is an ongoing social movement that started with the 2012 occupation of the Gill Tract in Albany, California, in protest of planned commercial development of public land and in support of preserving the land for the creation of an open center for urban agroecology and food sovereignty.\n\nThe occupation began on 22 April 2012 and ended on 14 May 2012.\n\nA second occupation was launched on May 11, 2013 on the south end of the Gill Tract, which was slated for privatization and construction of a parking lot, a chain grocery store, and an exclusive senior's home twice dissolved by UCPD. Eventually a community partnership with agroecology researchers at the College of Natural Resources for access to a portion of the Gill Tract was established.\n\nThe Gill Tract is a piece of agricultural land north of Monroe St. bounded by Marin Ave., Jackson St., and San Pablo Avenue, in Albany, California, administered by the University of California, Berkeley. The agricultural field has been the last open parcel of class I soil, soil that has \"slight limitations that restrict [its] use\", in the urban East Bay. The Gill Tract has been used by the University of California as an open-air laboratory for research and teaching since 1945, mostly for conducting plant genetics research using corn. \n\nThe original agricultural area was around ; all but one-tenth of that has already been developed. Beginning in 1944, much of the nearby land was converted into federally owned housing for dock workers at the nearby shipyards. The federal housing complex, known as Codornices Creek Village, was later sold to the University of California for student housing in 1956 and renamed to UC Village. \n\nThe Gill Tract has been the focus of efforts to create an educational urban farm for an extended period of time, From 1997 to 2000 a group named Bay Area Coalition for Urban Agriculture (BACUA) backed by 30 community groups coordinated by Food First aimed to establish \"the world’s first university center on sustainable urban agriculture and food systems\". \nSince at least 1997, coalitions of local residents, NGOs, and University of California (UC) students and faculty have brought forth proposals to the UC administration for the creation of a center for sustainable urban agriculture. The UC administrators turned down these proposals, something at least three UC faculty involved with the projects say was due to UC administrators stonewalling the process and not giving the proposals a good faith consideration. \nFrom 2002 to at least 2005, a group named \"Urban Roots\" operated in a similar vein, endorsed by Alice Waters and Tom Bates. As of 2012, the southern half of the Gill Tract was unused and slated to be leased by the UC for commercial development of a for-profit senior housing complex and a Whole Foods grocery store.\n\nOn 22 April 2012, (Earth Day) around 200 activists broke the lock on the gate, entered the Tract, and began farming. Starting the action on 22 April was intended to be a show of solidarity with Via Campesina, an international movement of peasant organizations. \n\nThe stated intent of the participants was to establish a sustainable farm to provide food to the local community. Participants argued that such a farm could play an important role in educating the local community about sustainable agricultural practices while helping to establish food sovereignty in the local community. The organizers emphasized that their intention was to create a working farm, rather than simply occupy the land.\n\n, farmers tilled and planted at least two acres of land with crops, including carrots, broccoli, corn, tomatoes, and squash. They brought in beehives, chickens, and over 15,000 seedlings. The farmers set up a composting toilet and several portable toilets on site and have arranged for a certified professional to handle their waste disposal, in an effort to alleviate sanitation concerns.\n\n, activists were occupying the part of the Tract slated for development, citing concerns that ownership of the Tract has been transferred from the College of Natural Resources to Capital Projects, an indication that the University plans to sell the entire Tract to developers. The University denied that the remainder of the Tract was slated for redevelopment, stating that they intend to use the land for research indefinitely. However, funding for research at the Gill Tract had receded to historically low levels of allocation, and one sole full professor continued to do research in biological control, on less than 1 of the 10 acres.\n\nIn response to the accusation of trespassing, the occupiers challenged the legitimacy of UC claims on the land, pointing out that the University's charter as a Land-grant university can be served by revitalizing the space for future research, not by sale on the commercial market and development, nor by its current derelict state.The occupation ended on 14 May 2012.\n\nUC Berkeley officials condemned the occupation, saying that it threatened ongoing agricultural research and interfered with their duty to students and faculty, and that the occupied portion of the tract was then not slated for commercial development. Officers of the University of California Police Department repeatedly warned the farmers that their actions were illegal, but did not take further action. A UC Berkeley spokesperson said that they would enforce campus policy forbidding camping on University property only if they could do so \"safely and effectively\". In April 2012, the University cut off water to the Tract, stating that the water system was not designed for habitation.\n\nOn 4 May 2012, UC Berkeley administrators said that if the farmers left on their own accord they would be included in future community planning processes and gave them until 5 May 2012 to leave the Tract lest the administration take steps to \"ensure the rule of law is maintained.\" On 7 May 2012, the farmers replied to the University, offering to disband their encampment if the University agreed to renew access to municipal water, continue access to the property for the duration of the farming season to finish growing the already planted crops, and guarantee that chemical fertilizers and pesticides would not be used on the Tract in the future. On 8 May 2012, the University issued a statement saying that there was \"a stunning degree of arrogance and entitlement inherent in this group’s demands\", and that after the encampment was dismantled, they would initiate an open dialogue headed by the Dean of the College of Natural Resources, while attempting to preserve as much of the already planted crops as would be possible without interfering with scheduled research on the tract.\n\nThe morning of 9 May 2012 heavy machinery brought concrete barricades in front of Ocean View Elementary School to prevent easy access to the occupation. Police brought a bulldozer into the farm and appeared ready to demolish, but retreated. A locked gate greeted Miguel Altieri as his students came to plant this year's experiments, and although vehicles were prevented from entering, a small number of tomatoes were still put in the ground to show determination to continue with the research. The remaining perimeter of chain-link fence around the Tract remained unprotected, and was in danger of being removed by citizen volunteers, a similar fate as in the peaceful takeover of People's Park, Berkeley, on 15 May 1972.\n\nUC began a lawsuit against 15 to 165 people they identified as leaders, RG12629392 \"The Regents of the University of California VS Dayaneni\".\n\nThe co-directors of the Berkeley Center for Diversified Farming Systems, part of UC Berkeley's College of Natural Resources released an open letter regarding the occupation, calling for the farmers to immediately decamp, the administrators to immediately set a date to discuss the future of the Gill Tract as an urban farm, and the researchers using the Tract to work around the crops already planted by the farmers and to return the harvest to the community.\n\nSome researchers who conduct research at the Tract expressed concern that missing a planting season could threaten their future funding and harm the educational progress of their students if the occupation forces them to miss the upcoming planting season. For Damon Lisch, a researcher who works at the Tract and fully dependent on grants, research stoppage would have endangered his future grant funding, threatening his livelihood. He spoke out against the occupation, stating that the farmers \"made a series of poor decisions based on inadequate information\" that have an unjust impact on the researchers who normally use the field during summer. The researchers active on the Tract supported leaving the activist-planted crops in place, as long as they were permitted to conduct their research side-by-side with the new farm.\n\nThe farmers have made an active effort not to interfere with the agricultural research of Miguel Altieri which is currently being conducted on the site. Altieri has also hosted a teach-out at the occupied Tract, and has spoken in support of the farmers, encouraging them to continue to occupy the land. He has also indicated that he will be working with the farmers directly to dry farm tomatoes. Altieri had been involved in the previous BACUA effort to transform the Tract into an urban farm.\n\nThe senior editorial board of the \"Daily Cal\" student newspaper has stated that \"the Occupy protesters farming on the Gill Tract in Albany have a promising, attainable goal\". The idea of turning the Gill Tract into an urban farm has been endorsed by a number of Berkeley faculty members as well as the student senate. The occupation itself is opposed by the Dean of the College of Natural Resources as well as the chair of UC Berkeley's Academic Senate, although the Dean believes that the Gill Tract could be productively used for urban agriculture in the future.\n\nA land occupation was launched again on May 11, 2013 on the south end of the Gill Tract, which was slated for privatization and construction of a parking lot, a chain grocery store, and an exclusive senior's home. Occupiers cleared the tall grass, tilled the land, and planted multiple vegetable gardens with support of more than 100 members of the community over that weekend. This second occupation was raided by UCPD on May 14, but members of the movement and supporters returned to reoccupy and plant again on the following weeks. After a second police raid on the occupation encampment, the movement switched focus from land occupations to the establishment of a community partnership with agroecology researchers at the College of Natural Resources for access to a portion of the Gill Tract. \n\nAs UC continued to propose a development project with \"Sprouts Farmer's Market\", the movement organized a Boycott Sprouts campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "9595964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9595964", "title": "Parker Middle School dance shooting", "text": "Parker Middle School dance shooting\n\nThe Parker Middle School dance shooting was an incident that occurred on April 24, 1998 at a banquet facility in Edinboro, Pennsylvania, United States. Andrew Jerome Wurst, 14, fatally shot 48-year-old John Gillette, and wounded another teacher and two students at Nick's Place (a nearby banquet hall) during an 8th grade dinner dance.\n\nPrior to the shooting, Andrew Wurst was described as an average student, and somewhat of a loner. One student noticed that he had become curt and unfriendly prior to the shooting, and had told others that he wanted to \"kill people and commit suicide\". He was later sentenced to 60 years in prison. He had no history of mental illness prior to the shooting.\n\nWurst showed up late to the dance, with his father's .25-caliber pistol in a holster belt under his jacket. He had previously left a suicide note under his pillow, and stated to investigators that he planned to go to the dance and kill only himself.\n\nThe shooting began on an outdoor patio, about twenty minutes before the dance was scheduled to end, around 9:40. He shot John Gillette after he asked Wurst to come inside. Before running out of ammunition, Wurst proceeded to enter Nick's Place, where the dance had been held, and subsequently fired and wounded Edrye Boraten, a teacher and two students, Jacob Tury and Robert Zemcheck. The shooting ended when the owner of Nick's Place, James Strand, intervened and confronted Wurst with his shotgun, ordering him to drop his weapon and later holding him at bay for eleven minutes. Strand later got Wurst on the ground and searched him for weapons, finding a dinner fork in his sock.\n\nWurst was psychotic. At some points, he seems to have thought that everyone was a zombie, already dead. At other times, he said that he was the only real person in the world, with \"unreal\" people activated only in his presence. He also claimed he was an alien from another planet, brought to earth as an infant. At school, he sometimes referred to himself as \"your god, Satan.\" He had a number of developmental difficulties, reportedly being a bed-wetter as late as age nine. Even at age fourteen he feared monsters in his closet. At school, he wrote stories and made video accounts of fictional murders and suicide.\" \n\nHis attack was planned. Wurst attempted to recruit another student to help with the massacre. He mentioned his scheme to other students days before the shooting. He took the gun, stuck it in his waistband and left a suicide note as he left home. At the party he showed the gun to his classmates, none of whom reported it to an adult.\"\n\nWurst's attorneys had considered an insanity defense, but recommended that he plead guilty because it would be hard to convince the jury of an insanity defense.\n\nWurst was charged with attempted murder, third-degree murder, and first-degree murder, and pleaded guilty in a plea bargain to a lesser charge of third-degree murder along with attempted murder to avoid going to trial, and in an attempt to avoid life imprisonment. He is serving a 30 to 60-year sentence in a prison for young offenders. He will be eligible for parole in 2029.\n"}
{"id": "37387623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37387623", "title": "Party spokesperson", "text": "Party spokesperson\n\nA party spokesperson (also known as party spokesman or party spokeswoman) is any member of a political party (at any regional level of the party structure) who is charged by the leaders of the party with communicating the party's position on specific portfolios. Party spokespersons largely feature in political parties of parliamentary systems. Party spokespersons can also be assisted in their duties by deputy or assistant spokespersons in the same portfolio.\n\nIn Canada, non-government party spokespersons are known as party critics and deputy party critics, respectively.\n\nSpokespersons of a ruling party are coterminous with their roles as ministers in the government cabinet, and spokespersons of the leading opposition party (usually in Westminster system parliaments, where they're called the \"Official Opposition\") are coterminous with their roles as shadow ministers in the shadow cabinet; both are usually called \"frontbenchers\". A minor parliamentary/legislative party (be it in or out of coalition with a government cabinet or official opposition shadow cabinet) may have its own set of spokespersons and respective portfolios, although they are often considered during parliamentary debates with lesser courtesy than the government or official opposition's cabinets; in Ireland, for example, all parliamentary parties with at least 7 elected members have their own front benches, while those with less than 7 elected members must agree with other independent MPs to form a technical group in order to gain speaking rights.\n\nNon-parliamentary parties or parties with very few elected parliament members (that is, not enough to effectively spread policy communication duties) may also have their own non-parliamentary spokespersons and respective portfolios, despite not possessing speaking rights in parliament (or sometimes, as in extra-parliamentary opposition, abstaining from seeking office). They are more likely to speak for the party to media outlets or other organizations.\n"}
{"id": "65626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65626", "title": "Peterloo Massacre", "text": "Peterloo Massacre\n\nThe Peterloo Massacre occurred at St Peter's Field, Manchester, England, on 16 August 1819, when cavalry charged into a crowd of 60,000–80,000 who had gathered to demand the reform of parliamentary representation.\n\nThe end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 had resulted in periods of famine and chronic unemployment, exacerbated by the introduction of the first of the Corn Laws. By the beginning of 1819, the pressure generated by poor economic conditions, coupled with the relative lack of suffrage in Northern England, had enhanced the appeal of political radicalism. In response, the Manchester Patriotic Union, a group agitating for parliamentary reform, organised a demonstration to be addressed by the well-known radical orator Henry Hunt.\n\nShortly after the meeting began, local magistrates called on the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry to arrest Hunt and several others on the hustings with him. The Yeomanry charged into the crowd, knocking down a woman and killing a child, and finally apprehending Hunt. However in the midst of the throng they became separated into small groups and halted in disorder. The 15th Hussars were then summoned by the magistrate, Mr Hulton, to disperse the crowd. They charged with sabres drawn, and in the ensuing confusion, 15 people were killed and 400–700 were injured. The massacre was given the name Peterloo in an ironic comparison to the Battle of Waterloo, which had taken place four years earlier.\n\nHistorian Robert Poole has called the Peterloo Massacre one of the defining moments of its age. In its own time, the London and national papers shared the horror felt in the Manchester region, but Peterloo's immediate effect was to cause the government to crack down on reform, with the passing of what became known as the Six Acts. It also led directly to the foundation of the \"Manchester Guardian\", but had little other effect on the pace of reform. In a survey conducted by \"The Guardian\" in 2006, Peterloo came second to the Putney Debates as the event from radical British history that most deserved a proper monument or a memorial. Peterloo is commemorated by a plaque close to the site, a replacement for an earlier one that was criticised as being inadequate as it did not reflect the scale of the massacre.\n\nIn 1819, Lancashire was represented by two members of parliament (MPs). Voting was restricted to the adult male owners of freehold land with an annual rental value of 40 shillings (£2) or more – the equivalent of about £80 in 2008 – and votes could only be cast at the county town of Lancaster, by a public spoken declaration at the hustings. Constituency boundaries were out of date, and the so-called rotten boroughs had a hugely disproportionate influence on the membership of the Parliament of the United Kingdom compared to the size of their populations: Old Sarum in Wiltshire, with one voter, elected two MPs, as did Dunwich in Suffolk, which by the early 19th century had almost completely disappeared into the sea. The major urban centres of Manchester, Salford, Bolton, Blackburn, Rochdale, Ashton-under-Lyne, Oldham and Stockport, with a combined population of almost one million, were represented by either the two county MPs for Lancashire, or the two for Cheshire in the case of Stockport. By comparison, more than half of all MPs were returned by a total of just 154 owners of rotten or closed boroughs. In 1816, Thomas Oldfield's \"The Representative History of Great Britain and Ireland; being a History of the House of Commons, and of the Counties, Cities, and Boroughs of the United Kingdom from the earliest Period\" claimed that of the 515 MPs for England and Wales 351 were returned by the patronage of 177 individuals and a further 16 by the direct patronage of the government: all 45 Scottish MPs owed their seats to patronage. These inequalities in political representation led to calls for reform.\n\nAfter the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815, a brief boom in textile manufacture was followed by periods of chronic economic depression, particularly among textile weavers and spinners (the textile trade was concentrated in Lancashire). Weavers who could have expected to earn 15 shillings for a six-day week in 1803, saw their wages cut to 5 shillings or even 4s 6d by 1818. The industrialists, who were cutting wages without offering relief, blamed market forces generated by the aftershocks of the Napoleonic Wars. Exacerbating matters were the Corn Laws, the first of which was passed in 1815, imposing a tariff on foreign grain in an effort to protect English grain producers. The cost of food rose as people were forced to buy the more expensive and lower quality British grain, and periods of famine and chronic unemployment ensued, increasing the desire for political reform both in Lancashire and in the country at large.\n\nEconomic conditions in 1817 led to a group who became known as Blanketeers to organise a march from Manchester to London so they could petition the Prince Regent for parliamentary reform. A crowd of 25,000 including 5,000 men who intended to march gathered in St Peter's Fields. After the magistrates read the Riot Act, the crowd was dispersed by the King's Dragoon Guards. The ringleaders were arrested and subsequently released when serious charges against them were not forthcoming. In April 1819 three leading Blanketeers were convicted of sedition and conspiracy when witnesses alleged they had advocated the principal towns of the kingdom should elect representatives to a National Convention to demand their rights and if refused enforce them 'sword in hand' during a meeting in Stockport in September 1818.\n\nBy the beginning of 1819 pressure generated by poor economic conditions was at its peak and had enhanced the appeal of political radicalism among the cotton loom weavers of south Lancashire. In January 1819, a crowd of about 10,000 gathered at St Peter's Fields to hear the radical orator Henry Hunt and called on the Prince Regent to choose ministers who would repeal the Corn Laws. The meeting, conducted in the presence of the cavalry, passed off without incident.\n\nIn July 1819, the town's magistrates wrote to Lord Sidmouth warning they thought a 'general rising' was imminent, the \"deep distress of the manufacturing classes\" was being worked on by the \"unbounded liberty of the press\" and \"the harangues of a few desperate demagogues\" at weekly meetings. \"Possessing no power to prevent the meetings\" the magistrates admitted they were at a loss as to how to stem the doctrines being disseminated.\n\nAgainst this background, a \"great assembly\" was organised by the Manchester Patriotic Union formed by radicals from the \"Manchester Observer\". The newspaper's founder Joseph Johnson was the union's secretary. He wrote to Henry Hunt asking him to chair a meeting in Manchester on 2 August 1819. Johnson wrote:\n\nUnknown to Johnson and Hunt, the letter was intercepted by government spies and copied before being sent to its destination. The contents were interpreted to mean that an insurrection was being planned, and the government responded by ordering the 15th Hussars to Manchester.\n\nThe mass public meeting planned for 2 August was delayed until 9 August. The \"Manchester Observer\" reported it was called \"to take into consideration the most speedy and effectual mode of obtaining Radical reform in the Common House of Parliament\" and \"to consider the propriety of the 'Unrepresented Inhabitants of Manchester' electing a person to represent them in Parliament\". The magistrates, led by William Hulton, had been advised by the acting Home Secretary, Henry Hobhouse, that \"the election of a member of parliament without the King's writ\" was a serious misdemeanour, encouraging them to declare the assembly illegal as soon as it was announced on 31 July. The radicals sought a second opinion on the meeting's legality which was that \"The intention of choosing Representatives, contrary to the existing law, tends greatly to render the proposed Meeting seditious; under those circumstances it would be deemed justifiable in the Magistrates to prevent such Meeting.\"\n\nOn 3 August, Hobhouse conveyed the view of the Attorney-General that the magistrates were incorrect to declare 9 August meeting illegal as it was called to \"consider\" the election of a representative and it was not the \"intention\" to elect an MP that was illegal, but the execution of that intention. On 4 August Hobhouse advised against any attempt to forcibly prevent the 9 August meeting if it went ahead, or do anything beyond collecting evidence for subsequent prosecution unless the meeting got out of hand:\n\nThe meeting on 9 August was postponed after magistrates banned it to discourage the radicals but Hunt and his followers were determined to assemble and a meeting was organised for 16 August, with its declared aim solely \"to consider the propriety of adopting the most LEGAL and EFFECTUAL means of obtaining a reform in the Common House of Parliament\". The press had mocked earlier meetings of working men because of their ragged, dirty appearance and disorganised conduct, but the organisers were determined that those attending the St Peter's Field meeting would be neatly turned out and march to the event in good order. Samuel Bamford, a local radical who led the Middleton contingent, wrote that \"It was deemed expedient that this meeting should be as morally effective as possible, and, that it should exhibit a spectacle such as had never before been witnessed in England.\" Instructions were given to the various committees forming the contingents that \"Cleanliness, Sobriety, Order and Peace\" and a \"prohibition of all weapons of offence or defence\" were to be observed throughout the demonstration. Each contingent was drilled and rehearsed in the fields of the townships around Manchester adding to the concerns of the authorities. A royal proclamation forbidding the practice of drilling had been posted in Manchester on 3 August but on 9 August an informant reported to Rochdale magistrates that at Tandle Hill the previous day, 700 men were \"drilling in companies\" and \"going through the usual evolutions of a regiment\" and an onlooker had said the men \"were fit to contend with any regular troops, only they wanted arms\"\n\nSt Peter's Field was a croft (an open piece of land) alongside Mount Street which was being cleared to enable the last section of Peter Street to be constructed. Piles of brushwood had been placed at the end of the field nearest to the Friends Meeting House, but the remainder of the field was clear. Thomas Worrell, Manchester's Assistant Surveyor of Paving, arrived to inspect the field at 7:00 am. His job was to remove anything that might be used as a weapon, and he duly had \"about a quarter of a load\" of stones carted away.\n\nMonday, 16 August 1819, was a hot summer's day, with a cloudless blue sky. The fine weather almost certainly increased the size of the crowd significantly; marching from the outer townships in the cold and rain would have been a much less attractive prospect.\n\nThe Manchester magistrates met at 9:00 am, to breakfast at the Star Inn on Deansgate and to consider what action they should take on Henry Hunt's arrival at the meeting. By 10:30 am they had come to no conclusions, and moved to a house on the southeastern corner of St Peter's Field, from where they planned to observe the meeting.\nThey were concerned that it would end in a riot, or even a rebellion, and had arranged for a substantial number of regular troops and militia yeomanry to be deployed. The military presence comprised 600 men of the ; several hundred infantrymen; a Royal Horse Artillery unit with two six-pounder guns; 400 men of the Cheshire Yeomanry; 400 special constables; and 120 cavalry of the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry. The Manchester & Salford Yeomanry were relatively inexperienced militia recruited from among local shopkeepers and tradesmen, the most numerous of which were publicans. Recently mocked by the \"Manchester Observer\" as \"generally speaking, the fawning dependents of the great, with a few fools and a greater proportion of coxcombs, who imagine they acquire considerable importance by wearing regimentals, they were subsequently variously described as \"younger members of the Tory party in arms\", and as \"hot-headed young men, who had volunteered into that service from their intense hatred of Radicalism.\" Socialist writer Mark Krantz has described them as \"the local business mafia on horseback\". R J White described them as \"exclusively cheesemongers, ironmongers and newly enriched manufacturers, (who) the people of Manchester .. thought .. a joke.\" \n\nThe British Army in the north was under the overall command of General Sir John Byng. When he had initially learned that the meeting was scheduled for 2 August he wrote to the Home Office stating that he hoped the Manchester magistrates would show firmness on the day:\n\nThe revised meeting date of 16 August, however, coincided with his visit to the horse races at York, a fashionable event at which Byng had entries in two races. He once again wrote to the Home Office, saying that although he would still be prepared to be in command in Manchester on the day of the meeting if it was thought really necessary, he had absolute confidence in his deputy commander, Lieutenant Colonel Guy L'Estrange.\n\nThe crowd that gathered in St Peter's Field arrived in disciplined and organised contingents. Each village or chapelry was given a time and a place to meet, from where its members were to proceed to assembly points in the larger towns or townships, and from there on to Manchester. Contingents were sent from all around the region, the largest and \"best dressed\" of which was a group of 10,000 who had travelled from Oldham Green, comprising people from Oldham, Royton (which included a sizeable female section), Crompton, Lees, Saddleworth and Mossley. Other sizeable contingents marched from Middleton and Rochdale (6,000 strong) and Stockport (1,500–5,000 strong). Reports of the size of the crowd at the meeting vary substantially. Contemporaries estimated it from 30,000 to as many as 150,000; modern estimates are 60,000–80,000. Scholar Joyce Marlow describes the event as \"The most numerous meeting that ever took place in Great Britain\" and elaborates that the generally accepted figure of 60,000 would have been six per cent of the population of Lancashire, or half the population of the immediate area around Manchester.\n\nAlthough some observers, like the Rev. W. R. Hay, chairman of the Salford Quarter Sessions, claimed that \"The active part of the meeting may be said to have come in wholly from the country\", others such as John Shuttleworth, a local cotton manufacturer, estimated that most were from Manchester, a view that would subsequently be supported by the casualty lists. Of the casualties whose residence was recorded, sixty-one per cent lived within a three-mile radius of the centre of Manchester. Some groups carried banners with texts like \"No Corn Laws\", \"Annual Parliaments\", \"Universal suffrage\" and \"Vote By Ballot.\" The first female reform societies were established in the textile areas in 1819 and women from the Manchester Female Reform Society, dressed in white, accompanied Hunt to the platform. The society's president Mary Fildes rode in Hunt's carriage carrying its flag. The only banner known to have survived is in Middleton Public Library; it was carried by Thomas Redford, who was injured by a yeomanry sabre. Made of green silk embossed with gold lettering, one side of the banner is inscribed \"Liberty and Fraternity\" and the other \"Unity and Strength.\"\n\nAt about noon, several hundred special constables were led onto the field. They formed two lines in the crowd a few yards apart, in an attempt to form a corridor through the crowd between the house where the magistrates were watching and the hustings, two wagons lashed together. Believing that this might be intended as the route by which the magistrates would later send their representatives to arrest the speakers, some members of the crowd pushed the wagons away from the constables, and pressed around the hustings to form a human barrier.\n\nHunt's carriage arrived at the meeting shortly after 1:00 pm, and he made his way to the hustings. Alongside Hunt on the speakers' stand were John Knight, a cotton manufacturer and reformer, Joseph Johnson, the organiser of the meeting, John Thacker Saxton, managing editor of the \"Manchester Observer\", the publisher Richard Carlile, and George Swift, reformer and shoemaker. There were also a number of reporters, including John Tyas of \"The Times\", John Smith of the \"Liverpool Mercury\" and Edward Baines Jr, the son of the editor of the \"Leeds Mercury.\" By this time St Peter's Field, an area of , was packed with tens of thousands of men, women and children. The crowd around the speakers was so dense that \"their hats seemed to touch\"; large groups of curious spectators gathered on the outskirts of the crowd. The rest of Manchester was like a ghost town, the streets and shops were empty.\n\nWilliam Hulton, the chairman of the magistrates watching from the house on the edge of St Peter's Field, saw the enthusiastic reception that Hunt received on his arrival at the assembly, and it encouraged him to action. He issued an arrest warrant for Henry Hunt, Joseph Johnson, John Knight, and James Moorhouse. On being handed the warrant the Constable, Jonathan Andrews, offered his opinion that the press of the crowd surrounding the hustings would make military assistance necessary for its execution. Hulton then wrote two letters, one to Major Thomas Trafford, the commanding officer of the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry Cavalry, and the other to the overall military commander in Manchester, Lieutenant Colonel Guy L'Estrange. The contents of both notes were similar:\n\nThe notes were handed to two horsemen who were standing by. The Manchester and Salford Yeomanry were stationed just a short distance away in Portland Street, and so received their note first. They immediately drew their swords and galloped towards St Peter's Field. One trooper, in a frantic attempt to catch up, knocked down a woman in Cooper Street, causing the death of her son when he was thrown from her arms; two-year-old William Fildes was the first casualty of Peterloo.\n\nSixty cavalrymen of the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry, led by Captain Hugh Hornby Birley, a local factory owner, arrived at the house from where the magistrates were watching; some reports allege that they were drunk. Andrews, the Chief Constable, instructed Birley that he had an arrest warrant which he needed assistance to execute. Birley was asked to take his cavalry to the hustings to allow the speakers to be removed; it was by then about 1:40 pm.\n\nThe route towards the hustings between the special constables was narrow, and as the inexperienced horses were thrust further and further into the crowd they reared and plunged as people tried to get out of their way. The arrest warrant had been given to the Deputy Constable, Joseph Nadin, who followed behind the yeomanry. As the cavalry pushed towards the speakers' stand they became stuck in the crowd, and in panic started to hack about them with their sabres. On his arrival at the stand Nadin arrested Hunt, Johnson and a number of others including John Tyas, the reporter from \"The Times.\" Their mission to execute the arrest warrant having been achieved, the yeomanry set about destroying the banners and flags on the stand. According to Tyas, the yeomanry then attempted to reach flags in the crowd \"cutting most indiscriminately to the right and to the left to get at them\" – only then (said Tyas) were brickbats thrown at the military: \"From this point the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry lost all command of temper\".\nFrom his vantage point William Hulton perceived the unfolding events as an assault on the yeomanry, and on L'Estrange's arrival at 1:50 pm, at the head of his hussars, he ordered them into the field to disperse the crowd with the words: \"Good God, Sir, don't you see they are attacking the Yeomanry; disperse the meeting!\" The 15th Hussars formed themselves into a line stretching across the eastern end of St Peter's Field, and charged into the crowd. At about the same time the Cheshire Yeomanry charged from the southern edge of the field. At first the crowd had some difficulty in dispersing, as the main exit route into Peter Street was blocked by the 88th Regiment of Foot, standing with bayonets fixed. One officer of the 15th Hussars was heard trying to restrain the by now out of control Manchester and Salford Yeomanry, who were \"cutting at every one they could reach\": \"For shame! For shame! Gentlemen: forbear, forbear! The people cannot get away!\"\n\nOn the other hand Lieutenant Jolliffe of the 15th Hussars said \"It was then for the first time that I saw the Manchester troop of Yeomanry; they were scattered singly or in small groups over the greater part of the Field, literally hemmed up and powerless either to make an impression or to escape; in fact, they were in the power of those whom they were designed to overawe and it required only a glance to discover their helpless position, and the necessity of our being \"brought to their rescue\"\" Further Jolliffe asserted that \".. nine out of ten of the sabre wounds were caused by the \"Hussars\" ... however, the far greater amount of injuries were from the pressure of the routed multitude.\" \n\nWithin ten minutes the crowd had been dispersed, at the cost of eleven dead and more than six hundred injured. Only the wounded, their helpers, and the dead were left behind; a woman living nearby said she saw \"a very great deal of blood.\" For some time afterwards there was rioting in the streets, most seriously at New Cross, where troops fired on a crowd attacking a shop belonging to someone rumoured to have taken one of the women reformers' flags as a souvenir. Peace was not restored in Manchester until the next morning, and in Stockport and Macclesfield rioting continued on the 17th. There was also a major riot in Oldham that day, during which one person was shot and wounded.\n\nThe exact number of those killed and injured at Peterloo has never been established with certainty. Sources claim 11–15 killed and 400–700 injured. The Manchester Relief Committee, a body set up to provide relief for the victims of Peterloo, gave the number of injured as 420, while Radical sources listed 500. The true number is difficult to estimate, as many of the wounded hid their injuries for fear of retribution by the authorities. Three of William Marsh's six children worked in the factory belonging to Captain Hugh Birley of the Manchester Yeomanry, and lost their jobs because their father had attended the meeting. James Lees was admitted to Manchester Infirmary with two severe sabre wounds to the head, but was refused treatment and sent home after refusing to agree with the surgeon's insistence that \"he had had enough of Manchester meetings.\"\n\nA particular feature of the meeting at Peterloo was the number of women present. Female reform societies had been formed in North West England during June and July 1819, the first in Britain. Many of the women were dressed distinctively in white, and some formed all-female contingents, carrying their own flags. Of the 654 recorded casualties, at least 168 were women, four of whom died either at St Peter's Field or later as a result of their wounds. It has been estimated that less than 12 per cent of the crowd was made up of women, suggesting that they were at significantly greater risk of injury than men by a factor of almost 3:1. Richard Carlile claimed that the women were especially targeted, a view apparently supported by the large number who suffered from wounds caused by weapons.\n\nEleven of the fatalities listed occurred on St Peter's Field. Others, such as John Lees of Oldham, died later of their wounds, and some like Joshua Whitworth were killed in the rioting that followed the crowd's dispersal from the field.\n\nThe Peterloo Massacre has been called one of the defining moments of its age. Many of those present at the massacre, including local masters, employers and owners, were horrified by the carnage. One of the casualties, Oldham cloth-worker and ex-soldier John Lees, who died from his wounds on 9 September, had been present at the Battle of Waterloo. Shortly before his death he said to a friend that he had never been in such danger as at Peterloo: \"At Waterloo there was man to man but there it was downright murder.\" When news of the massacre began to spread, the population of Manchester and surrounding districts was horrified and outraged.\n\nAfter the events at Peterloo, many commemorative items such as plates, jugs, handkerchiefs and medals were produced; they were carried by radical supporters and may also have been sold to raise money for the injured. The People's History Museum in Manchester has one of these Peterloo handkerchiefs on display. All the mementos carried the iconic image of Peterloo; cavalrymen with swords drawn riding down and slashing at defenceless civilians. The reverse of the Peterloo medal carried a Biblical text:\n\nPeterloo was the first public meeting at which journalists from important, distant newspapers were present and within a day or so of the event, accounts were published in London, Leeds and Liverpool. The London and national papers shared the horror felt in the Manchester region, and the feeling of indignation throughout the country became intense. James Wroe, editor of the \"Manchester Observer\" was the first to describe the incident as the \"Peterloo Massacre\", coining his headline by combining St Peter's Field with the Battle of Waterloo that had taken place four years earlier. He also wrote pamphlets entitled \"The Peterloo Massacre: A Faithful Narrative of the Events\". Priced at 2d each, they sold out every print run for 14 weeks and had a large national circulation. Sir Francis Burdett, a reformist MP, was jailed for three months for publishing a seditious libel.\n\nPercy Bysshe Shelley was in Italy and did not hear of the massacre until 5 September. His poem, \"The Masque of Anarchy\", subtitled \"Written on the Occasion of the Massacre at Manchester\" was sent for publication in the radical periodical \"The Examiner\" but because of restrictions on the radical press, was not published until 1832, ten years after the poet's death.\n\nThe immediate effect of Peterloo was a crackdown on reform. The government instructed the police and courts to go after the journalists, presses and publication of the \"Manchester Observer.\" Wroe was arrested and charged with producing a seditious publication. Found guilty he was sentenced to twelve months in prison and fined £100. Outstanding court cases against the \"Manchester Observer\" were rushed through the courts and a continual change of sub-editors was not sufficient defence against a series of police raids, often on the suspicion that someone was writing a radical article. The \"Manchester Observer\" closed in February 1820.\n\nHunt and eight others were tried at York Assizes on 16 March 1820, charged with sedition. After a two-week trial, five defendants were found guilty. Hunt was sentenced to 30 months in Ilchester Gaol; Bamford, Johnson, and Healey were given one year each, and Knight was jailed for two years on a subsequent charge. A civil case on behalf of a weaver wounded at Peterloo was brought against four members of the Manchester Yeomanry, Captain Birley, Captain Withington, Trumpeter Meagher, and Private Oliver, at Lancaster Assizes, on 4 April 1822. All were acquitted, as the court ruled their actions had been justified to disperse an illegal gathering.\n\nThe government declared its support for the actions taken by the magistrates and the army. The Manchester magistrates held a supposedly public meeting on 19 August, so that resolutions supporting the action they had taken three days before could be published. Cotton merchants Archibald Prentice (later editor of \"The Manchester Times\") and Absalom Watkin (a later corn-law reformer), both members of the \"Little Circle\", organised a petition of protest against the violence at St Peter's Field and the validity of the magistrate's meeting. Within a few days it had collected 4,800 signatures. Nevertheless, the Home Secretary, Lord Sidmouth, on 27 August conveyed to the magistrates the thanks of the Prince Regent for their action in the \"preservation of the public peace.\" That public exoneration was met with fierce anger and criticism. During a debate at Hopkins Street Robert Wedderburn declared \"The Prince is a fool with his Wonderful letters of thanks ... What is the Prince Regent or King to us, we want no King – he is no use to us.\" In an open letter, Richard Carlile said:\n\nFor a few months following Peterloo it seemed to the authorities that the country was heading towards an armed rebellion. Encouraging them in that belief were two abortive uprisings, in Huddersfield and Burnley, during the autumn of 1819, and the discovery and foiling of the Cato Street conspiracy to blow up the cabinet that winter. By the end of the year, the government had introduced legislation, later known as the Six Acts, to suppress radical meetings and publications, and by the end of 1820 every significant working-class radical reformer was in jail; civil liberties had declined to an even lower level than they were before Peterloo. Historian Robert Reid has written that \"it is not fanciful to compare the restricted freedoms of the British worker in the post-Peterloo period in the early nineteenth century with those of the black South African in the post-Sharpeville period of the late twentieth century.\"\n\nOne direct consequence of Peterloo was the foundation of the \"Manchester Guardian\" newspaper in 1821, by the Little Circle group of non-conformist Manchester businessmen headed by John Edward Taylor, a witness to the massacre. The prospectus announcing the new publication proclaimed that it would \"zealously enforce the principles of civil and religious Liberty ... warmly advocate the cause of Reform ... endeavour to assist in the diffusion of just principles of Political Economy and ... support, without reference to the party from which they emanate, all serviceable measures.\"\n\nEvents such as the Pentrich rising, the March of the Blanketeers and the Spa Fields meeting, all serve to indicate the breadth, diversity and widespread geographical scale of the demand for economic and political reform at the time. Peterloo had no effect on the speed of reform, but in due course all but one of the reformers' demands, annual parliaments, were met. Following the Great Reform Act of 1832, the newly created Manchester parliamentary borough elected its first two MPs. Five candidates including William Cobbett stood, and the Whigs, Charles Poulett Thomson and Mark Philips, were elected. Manchester became a Municipal Borough in 1837, and what remained of the manorial rights were purchased by the borough council.\n\nOn the other hand R J White has affirmed the true significance of Peterloo as marking the point of final conversion of provincial England to the struggle for enfranchisement of the working class. \"The ship which had tacked and lain for so long among the shoals and shallows of Luddism, hunger-marching, strikes and sabotage, was coming to port\" : \"Henceforth, the people were to stand with ever greater fortitude behind that great movement, which, stage by stage throughout the nineteenth century, was to impose a new political order upon society.\" : \"With Peterloo, and the departure of Regency England, parliamentary reform had come of age.\"\nThe Skelmanthorpe Flag is believed to have been made in Skelmanthorpe, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, in 1819. It was in part made to honour the victims of the Peterloo Massacre.\n\nThe Free Trade Hall, home of the Anti-Corn Law League, was built partly as a \"cenotaph raised on the shades of the victims\" of Peterloo. Until 2007 the massacre was commemorated by a blue plaque on the wall of the present building, the third to occupy the site, now the Radisson Hotel. It was regarded as a less than appropriate memorial because it under reported the incident as a dispersal, and the deaths were omitted completely. In a 2006 survey conducted by \"The Guardian\", Peterloo came second to St. Mary's Church, Putney, the venue for the Putney Debates, as the event from radical British history that most deserved a proper monument. A Peterloo Massacre Memorial Campaign was set up to lobby for a more appropriate monument to an event that has been described as Manchester's Tiananmen Square.\n\nIn 2007, Manchester City Council replaced the original blue plaque with a red one, giving a fuller account of the events of 1819. It was unveiled on 10 December 2007 by the Lord Mayor of Manchester, Councillor Glynn Evans. Under the heading \"St. Peter's Fields: The Peterloo Massacre\", the new plaque reads:\n\nIn 1968, in celebration of its centenary, the Trades Union Congress commissioned British composer Sir Malcolm Arnold to write the \"Peterloo Overture\". Other musical commemorations include \"Ned Ludd Part 5\" on British folk rock group Steeleye Span's 2006 album \"Bloody Men\", and Rochdale rock band Tractor's suite of five songs written and recorded in 1973, later included on their 1992 release \"Worst Enemies\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2085941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2085941", "title": "Practical Action", "text": "Practical Action\n\nPractical Action (previously known as the Intermediate Technology Development Group, ITDG) is a development charity registered in the United Kingdom which works directly in four regions of the developing world – Latin America, East Africa, Southern Africa and South Asia, with particular concentration on Peru, Bolivia, Kenya, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Bangladesh and Nepal.\n\nIn these countries, Practical Action works with poor communities to develop appropriate technologies in renewable energy, food production, agro-processing, water, sanitation, small enterprise development, building and shelter, climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction.\n\nLessons from Practical Action’s grassroots experience are spread through consultancy services, publishing activities, education resources, advocacy and an international technical enquiries service, Practical Answers.\n\nIn 1965, economist and philosopher E. F. Schumacher had an article published in \"The Observer\", pointing out the limitations of aid based on the transfer of large-scale technologies to developing countries which did not have the resources to accommodate them. He argued that there should be a shift in emphasis towards intermediate technologies based on the needs and skills possessed by the people of developing countries.\n\nEncouraged by the response, Schumacher and a few of his associates, including George McRobie, Julia Porter, Alfred Latham-Koenig and Professor Mansur Hoda, decided to create an \"advisory centre\" to promote the use of efficient labour-intensive techniques, and in 1966 the Intermediate Technology Development Group (ITDG) was born..\nFrom its origins as a technical enquiry service, ITDG began to take a greater direct involvement in local projects. Following initial successes in farming, it developed working groups on energy, building materials and rural health, and soon grew to become an international organisation. The group now has seven regional offices, working on over 100 projects around the world, with a head office in the UK.\n\nIn July 2005, ITDG changed its working name to Practical Action, and since 2008 this has been its legal name.\n\nPractical Action works in partnership with poor people and their communities, building on their own knowledge and skills to come up with innovative, sustainable and practical solutions. The organisation's project work is based around four international goals:\n\nPractical Action has seven regional and country offices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24601516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24601516", "title": "Pre-Marxist communism", "text": "Pre-Marxist communism\n\nWhile Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels defined communism as a political movement, there were already similar ideas in the past, which one could call communist experiments. Marx, himself, saw primitive communism as the original, hunter-gatherer state of humankind. For Marx, only after humanity was capable of producing surplus did private property develop.\n\nThe idea of a classless, stateless society based on communal ownership of property and wealth also stretches far back in Western thought long before \"The Communist Manifesto\". There are scholars who have traced communist ideas back to ancient times, particularly in the work of Pythagoras and Plato\".\" For instance, it is argued that Plato's The Republic described in great detail a communist-dominated society wherein power is delegated in the hands of intelligent philosopher or military guardian class and rejected the concept of family and private property. \n\nThere are those who view that the early Christian Church, such as that one described in the Acts of the Apostles (see Christian communism), was an early form of Communism. The view is that Communism was just Christianity in practice and Jesus Christ as the first communist. This link was highlighted in one of Marx's early writings, which stated that \"As Christ is the intermediary unto whom man unburdens all his divinity, all his religious bonds, so the state is the mediator unto which he transfers all his Godlessness, all his human liberty.\" Furthermore, the Marxist ethos that aims for unity reflects the Christian universalist teaching that humankind is one and that there is only one god, who does not discriminate among people. \n\nPre-Marxist communism was also present in the attempts to establish communistic societies such as those made by the Essenes and by the Judean desert sect. \n\nMuntzer also led a large Anabaptist Communist movement during the German Peasants' War.\n\nIn the 16th century, the English writer Sir Thomas More portrayed a society based on common ownership of property in his treatise \"Utopia\", whose leaders administered it through the application of reason.\n\nSeveral groupings in the English Civil War supported this idea, but especially the Diggers, who espoused clear communistic but agrarian ideals. (Cromwell and the Grandees' attitude to these groups was at best ambivalent and often hostilesee Bernstein's classic book \"Cromwell and Communism\"). Criticism of the idea of private property continued into the Enlightenment era of the 18th century, through such thinkers as the deeply religious Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Raised a Calvinist, Rousseau was influenced by the Jansenist movement within the Roman Catholic Church. The jansenist movement originated from the most orthodox Roman Catholic bishops, who tried to reform the Roman Catholic Church in the 17th century to stop secularization and Protestantism. One of the main jansenist aims was democratizing to stop the aristocratic corruption at the top of the church hierarchy. \"Utopian socialist\" writers such as Robert Owen are also sometimes regarded as communists.\n\nMaximilien Robespierre and his reign of terror, aimed at exterminating the nobility and conservatives, was greatly admired among communists. Robespierre was in his turn a great admirer of Rousseau. The Shakers of the 18th century practiced communalism as a sort of religious communism.\n\nSome believe that early communist-like utopias also existed outside of Europe, in Native American society, and other pre-Colonialism societies in the Western Hemisphere. Almost every member of a tribe had his or her own contribution to society, and land and natural resources would often be shared peacefully among the tribe. Some such tribes in North America and South America still existed well into the twentieth century.\n\nKarl Marx saw communism as the original state of mankind from which it rose, through classical society, and then feudalism, to its current state of capitalism. He proposed that the next step in social evolution would be a return to communism.\n\nIn its contemporary form, the ideology of communism grew out of the workers' movement of 19th-century Europe. As the Industrial Revolution advanced, socialist critics blamed capitalism for creating a class of poor, urban factory workers who toiled under harsh conditions, and for widening the gulf between rich and poor.\n"}
{"id": "57885867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57885867", "title": "Prospect Foundation", "text": "Prospect Foundation\n\nProspect Foundation (), is a think tank based in Taiwan, established in 1997, which aims to analyze the Cross-Taiwan-Strait relations and international politics and economy and provide suggestions of policies for Taiwan government. There are about a dozen of research fellows in Prospect Foundation who research and analyze the development of Cross-Strait relations and international developments.\n\nThe Prospect Foundation ranks 94th in the Top Think Tanks in Southeast Asia and the Pacific of Global Go To Think Tank Index 2017 report published by Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program.\n\nAfter Tsai Ing-wen assumed the office of president in Taiwan, former secretary of Ministry Of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Tan-sun Chen(Traditional Chinese 陳唐山) serves as the chairman of the Prospect Foundation on August 10, 2016, and I-chung Lai(Traditional Chinese 賴怡忠) serves as the president of the Prospect Foundation and Tin-huey Lin(Traditional Chinese 林廷輝) serves as the vice president.\n\nThe Prospect Foundation periodically publish 《Prospect Journal》 in english and 《Prospect Foundation Quarterly》 in traditional chinese.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nProspect Foundation official website\n"}
{"id": "27758176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27758176", "title": "Public Accounts Commission", "text": "Public Accounts Commission\n\nThe Public Accounts Commission is a UK body created under the National Audit Act 1983 to audit the National Audit Office, i.e., to watch the watchers.\n\nThe Commission comprises nine MPs, including the Leader of the House of Commons and the Chair of the Public Accounts Select Committee, who serve \"ex officio\". The remaining seven, who may not be Ministers of the Crown, are chosen by the House of Commons. The Commission elects its chair from among its numbers. Members continue to serve despite a dissolution of Parliament, but—excepting the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee—are required to resign if they are not standing or are defeated for re-election. As of 4 September 2012, the members of the Commission are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2674528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2674528", "title": "Quiet title", "text": "Quiet title\n\nAn action to quiet title is a lawsuit brought in a court having jurisdiction over property disputes, in order to establish a party's title to real property, or personal property having a title, of against anyone and everyone, and thus \"quiet\" any challenges or claims to the title.\n\nThis legal action is \"brought to remove a cloud on the title\" so that plaintiff and those in privity with him may forever be free of claims against the property. The action to quiet title resembles other forms of \"preventive adjudication,\" such as the declaratory judgment.\n\nThis genre of lawsuit is also sometimes called either a try title, trespass to try title, or ejectment action \"to recover possession of land wrongfully occupied by a defendant.\" However, there are slight differences. In an ejectment action, it is typically done to remove a tenant or lessee in an eviction action, or an eviction after a foreclosure. Nonetheless, in some states, all terms are used synonymously.\n\nIt comprises a complaint that the ownership (title) of a parcel of land or other real property is defective in some fashion, typically where title to the property is ambiguousfor example, where it has been conveyed by a quitclaim deed through which the previous owner disclaims all interest, but does not promise that good title is conveyed. Such an action may also be brought to dispel a restraint on alienation or another party's claim of a nonpossessory interest in land, such as an easement by prescription.\n\nOther typical grounds for complaint include:\n\nUnlike acquisition through a deed of sale, a quiet title action will give the party seeking such relief no cause of action against previous owners of the property, unless the plaintiff in the quiet title action acquired its interest through a warranty deed and had to bring the action to settle defects that existed when the warranty deed was delivered.\n\nNot all quiet title actions “clear title” completely. Some states have a quiet title action for the purpose of clearing a \"particular, known\" claim, title defect, or perceived defect. Contrast title registration which settles all title issues, both known and unknown. Quiet title actions are always subject to attack and are particularly vulnerable to jurisdictional challenges, both subject matter and personal, even years after final court decree in the action. It usually takes 3–6 months depending on the state where it is done.\n\nA quiet title action is also subject in many geographic jurisdictions, to a Statute of Limitations. This \"limitations of action\" is often 10 or 20 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "351496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351496", "title": "Ramzi Yousef", "text": "Ramzi Yousef\n\nRamzi Yousef ( ; born 27 April 1968) is a Pakistani convicted and incarcerated international terrorist who was one of the main perpetrators of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the bombing of Philippine Airlines Flight 434, and was a co-conspirator in the Bojinka plot. In 1995, he was arrested by the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and U.S. Diplomatic Security Service at a guest house in Islamabad, Pakistan while trying to set a bomb in a baby doll, then extradited to the United States.\n\nHe was tried in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York along with two co-conspirators and was convicted of planning the Bojinka plot. He received two life sentences plus 240 years for his part in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and Bojinka plot.\n\nYousef's maternal uncle is Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, with whom he allegedly planned the Bojinka plot. Mohammed is a senior al-Qaeda member accused of being the principal architect of the September 11 attacks in 2001. Yousef is serving his life sentences at ADX Florence, located near Florence, Colorado.\n\nThe name \"Ramzi Yousef\" is believed to be an alias. The 9/11 Commission claimed that Yousef's real name is Abdul Basit Mahmoud Abdul Karim. He was born in Kuwait to his parents who were both from Pakistan. His father is Mohammed Abdul Karim from Balochistan, Pakistan. His mother is believed to be the sister of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.\n\nWhen his family returned to Pakistan in the mid-1980s, Yousef was sent to the United Kingdom for education. In 1986, he enrolled at Swansea Institute in Wales, where he studied electrical engineering, graduating four years later. He also studied at the Oxford College of Further Education to improve his English.\n\nYousef left the United Kingdom after completing his studies and returned to Pakistan. He began to learn bomb making in a terrorist training camp in Peshawar, before traveling to the United States in 1992.\n\nThe World Trade Center bombing was a terrorist attack that occurred on 26 February 1993, when a car bomb was detonated below Tower One of the World Trade Center in New York City, New York. The 1,500 lb (680 kg) urea nitrate-hydrogen gas enhanced device was intended to knock the North Tower (Tower 1) into the South Tower (Tower 2), to bring both towers down and kill thousands of people. It failed to do so, but killed six civilians and injured 1,042, including 919 civilians (including an EMS worker), 88 firefighters, and 35 police officers.\n\nRamzi Yousef sent a letter to \"The New York Times\" after the bombing that expressed his motive: \nWe are, the fifth battalion in the Liberation Army, declare our responsibility for the explosion on the mentioned building. This action was done in response for the American political, economical, and military support to Israel, the state of terrorism, and to the rest of the dictator countries in the region.\n\nIf our demands are not met, all of our functional groups in the army will continue to execute our missions against the military and civilian targets in and out the United States. For your own information, our army has more than hundred and fifty suicidal soldiers ready to go ahead. The terrorism that Israel practices (which is supported by America) must be faced with a similar one. The dictatorship and terrorism (also supported by America) that some countries are practicing against their own people must also be faced with terrorism.\n\nThe American people must know, that their civilians who got killed are not better than those who are getting killed by the American weapons and support.\n\nThe American people are responsible for the actions of their government and they must question all of the crimes that their government is committing against other people. Or they — Americans — will be the targets of our operations that could diminish them.\n\nOn 1 September 1992, Yousef entered the United States with an Iraqi passport of disputed authenticity. His companion, Ahmed Ajaj, carried multiple immigration documents, among which was a crudely falsified Swedish passport. Providing a smokescreen to facilitate Yousef's entry, Ajaj was arrested on the spot when immigration officials found bomb manuals, videotapes of suicide car bombers, and a cheat sheet on how to lie to U.S. immigration inspectors in his luggage. Directors of the American Counter-Terrorism program later tied the travel arrangements to a phone call from Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, an Egyptian militant Muslim preacher, to the Pakistani telephone number 810604.\n\nYousef was held for 72 hours and repeatedly interrogated, but INS holding cells were overcrowded. Yousef, requesting political asylum, was given a hearing date of 9 November 1992. He told Jersey City Police that he was Abdul Basit Mahmud Abdul Karim, a Pakistani national born and brought up in Kuwait, and that he had lost his passport. On December 31, 1992, the Pakistani Consulate in New York issued a temporary passport to Abdul Basit Mahmud Abdul Karim (SAAG 484 2002).\n\nYousef travelled around New York and New Jersey, during which time he made calls to Abdel-Rahman via cell phone. Between 3 December and 27 December 1992, he made conference calls to key numbers in Balochistan, Pakistan (SAAG 484 2002).\n\nAjaj never reclaimed the manuals and tapes, which remained at the New York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) after Judge Reena Raggi had ordered the materials released in December 1992. (Lance 2004 pp 51, 101)\n\nYousef, aided by Mohammed A. Salameh and Mahmud Abouhalima, began assembling the urea nitrate-fuel oil device in his Pamrapo Avenue home in Jersey City ready for delivery to the WTC on 26 February 1993. He ordered chemicals from his hospital room when he had been injured in a car crash — one of three accidents caused by Salameh in late 1992 and early in 1993.\n\nSpeaking in code by phone on 29 December 1992, Ajaj told Yousef that he had won release of the bomb manuals but warned Yousef that picking them up might jeopardize his \"business\". On one book carried by Ajaj in 1992 was a word translated by the FBI as meaning \"the basic rule.\" It was later found to be \"al Qaeda\" – meaning \"the base\" (Lance 2004 p 32).\n\nDuring a CBS \"60 Minutes\" interview in 2002, co-conspirator Abdul Rahman Yasin said that Yousef originally wanted to bomb Jewish neighborhoods in New York City. Yasin added that after touring Crown Heights and Williamsburg, Yousef had changed his mind. Yasin alleged that Yousef was educated in bomb-making at a training camp in Peshawar, Pakistan.\n\nYousef rented a Ryder van and on 26 February 1993, loaded it with powerful explosives. He packed four cardboard boxes into the back of the van, each containing a mixture of paper bags, newspapers, urea, and nitric acid; next to them he placed three red metal cylinders of compressed hydrogen. Four large containers of nitroglycerin were loaded into the center of the van with Atlas Rockmaster blasting caps connected to each (Reeve (1999), pp 154 ).\n\nThe van was driven into the garage of the World Trade Center, where it exploded. Using his Pakistani passport, Yousef escaped from the United States hours later. It is believed that he fled to Iraq and then Pakistan. As a result of the bombing, the FBI added Yousef as the 436th person on its Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list on 21 April 1993.\n\nAfter returning to Pakistan in February 1993, Yousef went into hiding. That summer, he allegedly took up a contract to assassinate the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto, which was initiated by members of Sipah-e-Sahaba. The plot failed when Yousef and Abdul Hakim Murad were interrupted by police outside Bhutto's residence. Yousef decided to abort the bombing and it blew up as he was trying to recover the device. He escaped and went into hiding during the investigation.\n\nAfter the Iranian shrine bombing, Yousef soon began planning the Bojinka plot. It included plans to assassinate Pope John Paul II while he visited the Philippines, and to plant bombs inside several United and Delta Air Lines flights out of Bangkok. On this plot, he allegedly worked with his maternal uncle, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.\n\nOn 11 December 1994, Yousef conducted a trial run of the plan by boarding Philippine Airlines Flight 434 from Manila to Tokyo, Japan, with a stopover in the Philippine city of Cebu. His identity for the flight was that of an Italian man named Armaldo Forlani. The cabin crew for this leg of the flight later told investigators that Yousef changed seats several times during the relatively short flight, with his last seat change coming after a return from the lavatory.\n\nYousef assembled a bomb in the lavatory, set the timer to detonate four hours later, and put it in the lifejacket pocket under seat 26K on the right-hand side of the fuselage. The domestic flight attendant Maria Delacruz had noticed that Yousef kept switching seats during the course of the Manila to Cebu flight, but did not warn the new cabin crew boarding at Cebu of his behavior. Yousef and 25 other passengers left the plane at Cebu, where 256 passengers and a new cabin crew boarded for the trip to Tokyo. Many passengers were Japanese people; some were coworkers traveling as part of a tour group. Airport congestion delayed the departure of Flight 434 from Cebu for 38 minutes. All of the passengers had boarded by 8:30 a.m., with the bomb having been planted around two hours earlier. PAL 434 was cleared for takeoff at 8:38 a.m.\n\nAt 11:43 am, about an hour and a half from Tokyo, the bomb exploded while Flight 434 cruised on autopilot above the Japanese island of Minami Daitō (near Okinawa Island and approximately 260 miles (420 km) southwest of Tokyo). The explosion ripped the body of 24-year-old , a Japanese businessman occupying the seat where the bomb was placed, in half. Ten passengers sitting in the seats in front of and behind Ikegami were also injured while one needed urgent medical care. The explosion tore out a two square-foot (0.2 m) portion of the cabin floor into the cargo hold but leaving the fuselage of the plane intact. The airplane was spared from a deadly fiery explosion as the seat where the bomb was planted, 26K, was two rows away from the central fuel tank. The rapid expansion of energy from the bomb caused the plane to expand vertically slightly, damaging cables to the steering and aileron controls. The bomb's orientation caused the energy to be mostly absorbed by Ikegami; he was killed but the other passengers and the plane were not catastrophically damaged.\n\nThe cockpit crew improvised to manipulate the plane's speed and direction by varying the engines' throttle settings. Captain Eduardo Reyes made an emergency landing at Okinawa's Naha Airport, saving 272 passengers and 20 crew. The plane became a crime scene; bomb fragments found in and around the blast zone, as well as the lower half of Ikegami's body, provided clues pointing investigators back to Manila.\n\nYousef then returned to Manila, where he began preparing at least a dozen bombs, each with more explosive materials. Weeks before his planned attacks, a fire started in his Manila flat, forcing him to flee the room, leaving everything behind. The fire made the apartment staff suspicious, and soon police, led by Aida Fariscal, raided the flat and uncovered the plot. A Philippine National Police raid in another Manila apartment revealed related evidence that Abdul Murad, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and Yousef had drawn up plans for flying an airplane into CIA headquarters. The information was passed on to the Federal Aviation Administration, who warned individual airlines.\n\nDespite the international manhunt, Yousef escaped from Manila to Pakistan. On 31 January 1995, he flew from Pakistan to Thailand and met with an associate Istaique Parker. Yousef told Parker to check two suitcases filled with bombs, one on a Delta Air Lines flight and another on a United Airlines flight. Both bombs were timed to blow up over populated areas of the U.S. Parker spent much of the day at the airport, but was reportedly too scared to approach the airlines with the suitcases. Finally, Parker returned to Yousef's hotel and lied that employees at the airline cargo sections were asking for passports and fingerprints, making it too risky to go ahead with the plan.\n\nYousef, wanting to get the bombs on a plane bound for the U.S., called a friend with diplomatic immunity in Qatar who was willing to take the suitcases to London and check them on a flight to the U.S. The plan was that they would explode mid-flight and destroy the plane. Yousef planned to use the friend's diplomatic immunity to ensure the suitcases would be loaded on the plane. According to Simon Reeve's book \"The New Jackals\", the name of this friend has not been revealed, but his father is said to be a very senior politician and leading member of the establishment in Qatar (at the time, Yousef's maternal uncle, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, was living in Qatar as the guest of a Qatari cabinet official). However, there was a problem and the suitcases were not checked in. Yousef and Parker returned to Pakistan on 2 February 1995.(Reeve (1999), pp 98–100)\n\nFollowing a tip-off from Istaique Parker, on 7 February 1995, Agents of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and Special Agents of the U.S. Diplomatic Security Service, including Bill Miller and Jeff Riner, raided room number 16 in the Su-Casa Guest House in Islamabad, Pakistan, and captured Yousef before he could move to Peshawar. Parker was paid $2 million under the Rewards for Justice Program for the information leading to Yousef's capture. During the raid, agents found Delta and United Airlines flight schedules and bomb components in children's toys. Yousef had chemical burns on his fingers. Yousef was sent to a federal prison in New York City and held there until his trial.\n\nOn September 5, 1996, Yousef and two co-conspirators were convicted for their role in the Bojinka plot and were sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Kevin Duffy to life in prison without parole.\n\nOn 12 November 1997, Yousef was found guilty of masterminding the 1993 bombing, and on January 8, 1998, Judge Duffy found Yousef guilty of plotting a \"seditious conspiracy\" to bomb the World Trade Center and sentenced Yousef to life plus 240 years in prison for both bombings. He also recommended that Yousef's entire sentence be served in solitary confinement.\n\nDuring the 1998 trial, Yousef said:\nYou keep talking also about collective punishment and killing innocent people to force governments to change their policies; you call this terrorism when someone would kill innocent people or civilians in order to force the government to change its policies. Well, when you were the first one who invented this terrorism. You were the first one who killed innocent people, and you are the first one who introduced this type of terrorism to the history of mankind when you dropped an atomic bomb which killed tens of thousands of women and children in Japan and when you killed over a hundred thousand people, most of them civilians, in Tokyo with fire bombings. You killed them by burning them to death. And you killed civilians in Vietnam with chemicals as with the so-called Orange agent. You killed civilians and innocent people, not soldiers, innocent people every single war you went. You went to wars more than any other country in this century, and then you have the nerve to talk about killing innocent people.And now you have invented new ways to kill innocent people. You have so-called economic embargo which kills nobody other than children and elderly people, and which other than Iraq you have been placing the economic embargo on Cuba and other countries for over 35 years. . . .The Government in its summations and opening statement said that I was a terrorist. Yes, I am a terrorist and I am proud of it. And I support terrorism so long as it was against the United States Government and against Israel, because you are more than terrorists; you are the one who invented terrorism and using it every day. You are liars, butchers, and hypocrites.Duffy responded:\n\nRamzi Yousef, you claim to be an Islamic militant. Of all the persons killed or harmed in some way by the World Trade Center bomb, you cannot name one who was against you or your cause. You did not care, just so long as you left dead bodies and people hurt.\n\nRamzi Yousef, you are not fit to uphold Islam. Your God is death. Your God is not Allah ...\n\nYou weren't seeking conversions. The only thing you wanted to do was to cause death. Your God is not Allah. You worship death and destruction. What you do, you do not for Allah; you do it only to satisfy your own twisted sense of ego.\n\nYou would have others believe that you are a soldier, but the attacks on civilization for which you stand convicted here were sneak attacks which sought to kill and maim totally innocent people ...\n\nYou, Ramzi Yousef, came to this country pretending to be an Islamic fundamentalist, but you cared little or nothing for Islam or the faith of the Muslims. Rather, you adored not Allah, but the evil that you yourself have become. And I must say that as an apostle of evil, you have been most effective.\n\nYousef is held at the high-security Supermax prison ADX Florence in Florence, Colorado. The handcuffs Ramzi Yousef wore when he was captured in Pakistan are displayed at the FBI Museum in Washington, D.C. His Federal Prisoner number is: 03911-000.\n\nIn 1997, Osama bin Laden said during an interview that he did not know Yousef, but claimed to know Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who is the mastermind behind the September 11, 2001 attacks and Yousef's uncle. According to the 9/11 Commission, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed said under interrogation that \"Yousef was not a member of al-Qaeda and that Yousef never met Bin Laden.\" Some authors, however, make note of a stronger link between Yousef and bin Laden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17995542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17995542", "title": "Social purity movement", "text": "Social purity movement\n\nThe social purity movement was a late 19th-century social movement that sought to abolish prostitution and other sexual activities that were considered immoral according to Christian morality. Composed primarily of women, the movement was active in English-speaking nations from the late 1860s to about 1910, exerting an important influence on the contemporaneous feminist, eugenics, and birth control movements. The movement helped to shape feminist views on prostitution.\n\nThe roots of the social purity movement lay in early 19th-century moral reform movements, such as radical utopianism, abolitionism, and the temperance movement. In the late 19th century, \"social\" was a euphemism for \"sexual\"; the movement first formed in opposition to the legalization and regulation of prostitution, and quickly spread to other sex-related issues such as raising the age of consent, sexually segregating prisons, eliminating abortion, opposing contraception, and censoring pornography.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "28634240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28634240", "title": "Steve Biko Foundation", "text": "Steve Biko Foundation\n\nEstablished in 1998, The Steve Biko Foundation (SBF) is a community development organisation in South Africa. The organisation is inspired by the late anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko (1946–1977).\n\nThe approach of the Steve Biko Foundation is to\n\nThe Steve Biko Foundation runs the following programmes:\n\nThe Steve Biko Foundation is currently developing the Steve Biko Centre. Planned for the Ginsberg township of King William’s Town in the Eastern Cape, the Centre will focus on translating global interest in the legacy of anti-apartheid activist Bantu Stephen Biko into an intellectual and economic resource for the local and regional economy.\n\nThe Steve Biko Centre is meant to be a living monument that utilises memory to channel local energies towards contemporary development challenges. As such, the principal objectives of the Centre are to:\n\n\nLocated in the Eastern Cape, The Biko Heritage Trail comprises six Biko related sites which have been declared national monuments. Among them are:\n\nCurrently the trail attracts visitors from South Africa as well as the international community. Once established, The Steve Biko Centre will serve as the cornerstone of the trail.\n\nIntegral to the work of the Foundation are public lectures, seminars and publications. This series of activities contributes substantively to the goals of SBF by:\n\nEstablished in 2000, the Steve Biko Memorial Lecture is an annual event that attracts over 2,000 patrons and is broadcast to 47 African nations. To date, the memorial lecture has been delivered by:\n\nEstablished to honour the legacy of the late Pan-Africanist, the Robert Sobukwe Memorial Lecture focuses on issues that are particularly relevant to the African continent. Lectures have been delivered by:\n\n\nAn annual gathering that brings together the leadership of over 70 community-based organisations, the Matthew Goniwe Youth Leadership Conference provides an opportunity for organisations to meet and interact with policy makers, grant makers, corporate sponsors and government departments, while providing necessary training and capacity building.\n\nAmong the individuals and organisations who have participated are:\n\n\nIn addition to its annual lectures and conferences, the Foundation facilitates a number of other platforms for dialogue and leadership development in the form of seminars and workshops, which are anchored by a range of practitioners.\n\nThese include:\n\n\nTitled after the pseudonym under which Steve Biko wrote, this newly created forum is designed to bring together young professionals from various sectors for discussion around salient issues impacting South Africa’s political, economic and social development. Among the topics to be explored are:\n\n\nGiven the dual challenges of leadership and consolidation of democracy, the Steve Biko Foundation works extensively on leadership development.\n\nThe Foundation’s emphasis is on developing multiple layers of leadership with an approach that integrates the personal, political and professional. In this model, an individual’s sense of self—their values and beliefs—finds expression in both their political representations and professional conduct. The proposition of the Steve Biko Foundation focuses on developing a cadre of leadership whose mandate extends beyond the boundary of the company, seeking to develop leadership not only for success, but for significance. Accordingly, the Foundation’s interventions centre on: \n\n\nIn post-apartheid South Africa much has been made of the skills shortage and leadership development. Consequently, alongside the provision of access to traditional training grounds such as business schools, a number of programs have been developed to address these needs. While these initiatives do address the skills challenges facing the nation, the reality is that they are geared toward producing professionals, not citizens. The proposition of the Steve Biko Foundation focuses on developing a cadre of leadership whose mandate extends beyond the boundary of the firm.\n\nThe Foundation focuses on developing leadership not only for success, but for significance. This approach is underpinned by five central values:\n\n\nAmong others, the following programmatic activities are utilized to promote the link between identity, agency and social action:\n\n\nAll too often, individuals and institutions outside of mainstream political formations, and recognized opinion makers, are excluded from social discourse. In seeking to create a culture of interrogative leadership, the third pillar of the Steve Biko Foundation’s leadership development program centres on increasing the capacity of communities to produce organic leaders through a self-replenishing leadership culture, sustained by consistent engagement with contemporary social issues.\n\nThe Foundation seeks to empower communities to not only serve as respondents to national dialogue, but to feature in framing the issues and developing alternative paradigms. This kind of leadership is endowed not only with the capacity to regurgitate policies and programmes; it is possessed with the aptitude to synthesize ideas and to originate policies and interventions, furthering the democratic project. A strong culture of critical engagement assists communities in developing successive generations of leadership that is responsive to and grounded in local issues.\n\nAs such, SBF works to Support Community development and mass participation in national dialogue through:\n\n\nWhile the bedrock of the Foundation’s intervention is developing conscious leadership, SBF seeks to compliment this element by creating access to skills development opportunities. The objective of this facet of the leadership development program is two-fold.\n\nFirst, the aim is to equip individuals and communities with tools with which to express their values. By creating avenues to access vocational training, business skills and entrepreneurial opportunities, SBF seeks to assist communities in actualizing the principle of agency. The Foundation recognizes that without basic skills in community organizing and organizational development, the empowerment of marginalized individuals and communities remains an unattainable ideal.\n\nThe second impetus behind skills development as a component of leadership development is the reality that poverty and economic hardships shape the lives of the majority of South Africans. Many individuals, who could contribute positively to development and democracy, are bound by the need to provide not only for themselves but their families. At its worst, poverty not only undermines the dignity of people, but can contribute to decision-making that violates the values articulated above.\n\nAccordingly, among the Foundation’s training interventions in the arena of capacity building focuses on:\n\n\nAs SBF embarks upon its second decade of developmental work, the Foundation seeks to further its vision through the creation of a Research and Policy Unit. The mandate of the unit is to facilitate research that advances the tangible elements of development: poverty eradication, education, housing; as well as the intangible elements: history, culture and values.\n\nSteve Biko Foundation's proposition is unique in that its research undertakings are informed by 10 years of developmental programs and policy interactions at the national level and in grassroots communities. During this time, it has become increasingly evident that there is a lack of interaction between research, ensuing policies and the communities that will purportedly benefit from new findings. Moreover, communities not only serve as custodians of traditional knowledge, but constantly generate knowledge and ideas based on contemporary experiences. SBF's Research & Policy Unit aims, where appropriate to assist communities in disseminating information to a wider audience, allowing for the development of best practices and increased productivity. Accordingly, in an effort to bring alternative voices and perspectives to the fore, this unit will engage in:\n\n\nAt the crux of the new unit lies research and policy formulation. As previously indicated all research and policy initiatives will contribute to the developmental agenda. Some projects, however, will be evaluative in nature, interrogating the success of policies as well as their unintended consequences. Problem-solving research will also be undertaken, the sole objective being to create programs and policies to address pressing developmental issues such as access to education, patients' rights and creating economic opportunities.\n\nIn addition to the research and policy development efforts undertaken by SBF staff, a number of studies will be conducted by fellows, of which there will be several categories.\n\nExecutive Fellows\n\nCandidates for the executive fellowship will have served as heads of state and government or led multinational institutions. A key objective of the executive fellowship is to provide support to individuals who may not have had an opportunity to document their histories and learning during their careers, but whose lessons will be invaluable for the next generation of leadership.\n\nSenior Fellows\n\nSenior fellows will be lecturers in traditional academic institutions, on sabbatical, as well as senior management within the private and public sectors or non-governmental organizations whose work focuses on developmental issues.\n\nCommunity Fellows\n\nCandidates for the community fellowship will be developmental practitioners drawn from grassroots community benefit organizations. While they may not possess traditional academic training, their inputs are nonetheless invaluable to the creation of new developmental policies and programs. A unique feature of this fellowship will be the training and support given to candidates during their tenure at SBF.\n\nJunior Fellows\n\nJunior fellowships will also cater for individuals who are still pursuing their undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Candidates will be drawn from South Africa as well as the international community.\n\nAlumni\n\nAn important outcome of the SBF fellowship program will be an international network of academicians and developmental practitioners, who not only represent a variety of industries and sectors, but who span generational and cultural divides. As alumni of the fellowship program, these individuals can continuously contribute to developmental discourse via SBF's publications, dialogues and innovative programs; and will have opportunities to personally craft Alumni residences at the Steve Biko Foundation as the need arises.\n\nBeyond providing the tools for knowledge production and aggregation, the Steve Biko Foundation’s research and policy unit will create a platform for the dissemination of this information. Key components of the SBF's publishing program will be:\n\n\nMonthly perspectives\n\nOn a monthly basis, the Steve Biko Foundation will produce a publication entitled \"Viewpoint\". Named after a publication of the Black Community Programs, \"Viewpoint\" will contain perspectives on topical issues on the development agenda. Content will be provided by experts in various fields as well as SBF fellows and alumni. Designed as a dialogue tool for the general public, \"Viewpoint\" will be distributed electronically and physically.\n\nPolicy papers\n\nThe Steve Biko Foundation will also produce policy papers on an occasional basis as warranted. The papers will interrogate both the intended and unintended consequences of policy, while crafting innovative policy propositions. As envisaged, SBF's occasional policy papers will serve not only to advance policy options proposed by members of the SBF network, it will also serve as a premier, non-partisan platform for dialogue and debate about both national and international policy.\n\nFrank Talk Journal\n\nAs conceptualized, the \"Frank Talk Journal\" will be published on an annual basis. Titled after the penname under which Steve Biko wrote, \"Frank Talk\" will contain articles based on the research of various fellows. While intended to be a scholarly publication, \"Frank Talk\" will also create opportunities for \"lay\" people, or those not recognized by the academic establishment, to contribute thoughtful pieces on topics of their choice.\n\nBooks\n\nAn additional offering of the Steve Biko Foundation’s Research and Policy unit will be the publication of books. Manuscripts will be produced by Fellows of the Foundation as well as members of SBF's extended network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2926339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2926339", "title": "Stig Andersen Hvide", "text": "Stig Andersen Hvide\n\nStig Andersen Hvide (died December 1293) was a Danish nobleman and magnate, known as the leading man among the outlaws after the murder of King Eric V of Denmark. In Danish tradition, he is known as \"Marsk Stig\".\nIn spite of his surname, he does not seem to have been a member of the Hvide clan but rather seems to have married into it. Of his personal life not much is known but from the 1270s he seems to have been Denmark’s leading general and minister of war (\"marsk\"). During the next years he was apparently a leading man of the opposition against the growing power of King Eric V. He was probably one of the group supporting the introduction of the \"haandfæstning\" of 1282, reflecting the growing strength of the Danish nobility.\nAfter the regicide of King Eric V in November 1286, Marsk Stig was forced to leave office. He and many other magnates and vassals were outlawed as the men behind the king’s death in spite of their protests. Stig Andersen then settled at the island of Hjelm in Kattegat which he made a pirate’s nest and from which he ravaged the Danish coasts. He also formed a working alliance with the king of Norway. He died on his island without having obtained rehabilitation from the Danish government.\nTo posterity Stig Andersen assumed still mightier dimensions. He was often regarded the man behind the regicide and already in his own time ballads and sages were flourishing, a tradition continued by romantic poets and writers. According to a very popular version he became a regicide in order to revenge his dishonour because the king had seduced his wife some years before. Later historians in general have regarded him as the victim of a political miscarriage of justice. Some of them look upon him as a kind of a political idealist perhaps even trying to create parliamentarian conditions in Denmark – a theory just as impossible to prove.\n\nRecent excavation on the island of Samsø by archaeologists of the National Museum of Denmark revealed acts of piracy attributed to Marsk Stig. New archaeological findings on Hjelm also show that he had a regular coiner workshop. The pirates were accused of putting counterfeit coins into circulation to cripple the Danish economy.\n\nDanish fictive treatments of Marsk Stig include:\n\n\nThe operas \"Marsk Stig (Stig Hvide)\" by Norwegian composer Ole Olsen (1872-76) and \"Drot og marsk\" (King and Marshal) by Danish composer Peter Heise (1878), as well as the play \"Marsk Stig\" by Carsten Hauch (1850), also revolve around the subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50293104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50293104", "title": "Svetlana Agapitova", "text": "Svetlana Agapitova\n\nSvetlana Yurevna Agapitova (; born February 8, 1964) is a Russian human rights activist, social and political activist.\n\nBorn on February 8, 1964 in Leningrad. She graduated from the journalism faculty of Leningrad State University in 1986. In 2012 she received a degree in law, graduated from the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation.\n\nIn 1989 he became a founder of information and advertising agency IMA-PRESS. Since 1991, he worked in Petersburg – Channel 5. On Channel Russia 1 led program of family and childhood.\n\nDecember 23, 2009 entered the office of the Ombudsman of the child in St. Petersburg. January 21, 2015 re-elected the Commissioner for Children's Rights in St. Petersburg.\n\nMarried, four children.\n\nRepeatedly accused the Russian Orthodox activists in the promotion of abortion, homosexuality and sodomy. In the social network VKontakte there is a group of opponents of the Ombudsman AGAPITOVA.net.\n\n"}
{"id": "44277024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44277024", "title": "Tamil Nadu Civil Service", "text": "Tamil Nadu Civil Service\n\nThe Tamil Nadu Civil Service (TNCS) () is the state civil service and bureaucracy in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Recruitment for the service is based on the results of an annual competitive examination. \n\nAlthough initial appointment is usually at a lower rank than Indian Administrative Service (IAS, one of the All India Services), TNCS officers may assume posts equivalent to IAS officers. They hold a variety of posts at the sub-district level, delivering government services apart from revenue administration and the maintenance of law and order.\n\nVacancies in the TNCS occur annually due to retirement and IAS promotion to the Revenue Administration Disaster Management and Mitigation Department. Employees are recruited to the Tamil Nadu Civil Service in two ways: directly, through the TNPSC Group 1 Exam organized by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission, and by Transfer from the Tamil Nadu Revenue Subordinate Service or other organizations. The exam, conducted over an 11-month period, has three phases:\npreliminary, main and interview. Subjects include general knowledge, general science, English, management, statistics, civil engineering, Indian history, law, mathematics, political science and international relations, public administration and computer science.\n\nThe Additional Chief Secretary (Commissioner) of Revenue Administration has authority over TNCS officers in training, appointment, promotion, posting and transfer and retirement. Additional authority is vested in the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission, the Government of Tamil Nadu, the Department of Revenue and the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms.\n\nAfter recruitment TNCS candidates undergo training at the Anna Institute of Management, and probationary officers are appointed after the training period. After the probationary period they are appointed deputy collectors, followed by district revenue officers after six years of experience. Officers with good performance have a rank equivalent to the IAS. The retirement age is 58.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3193506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3193506", "title": "Thomas G. Barnes", "text": "Thomas G. Barnes\n\nThomas G. Barnes (August 14, 1911 – October 23, 2001) was an American creationist, who argued in support of his religious belief in a young earth by making the faulty scientific claims that the Earth's magnetic field was consistently decaying and that Einstein's theory of relativity was incorrect.\n\nBarnes obtained three degrees in Physics: an AB from Hardin-Simmons University in 1933, an MS from Brown University under Robert Bruce Lindsay in 1936, and an honorary Sc.D. again from Hardin-Simmons University in 1950. His detractors have questioned his credentials based on the fact that his doctorate was honorary.\n\nAt the time that Barnes joined the Creation Research Society (CRS) in the early 1960s, he was the head of the Schellenger Research Laboratories at Texas Western College (now University of Texas at El Paso), where he was completing a textbook on electricity and magnetism, and on whose faculty he served from 1938 until he retired in 1981. Barnes headed one of the first projects of the CRS, to create a creationist high school biology text. Barnes served as the president of the CRS in the mid-1970s.\n\nBarnes claimed to calculate the half-life of the earth's magnetic field as approximately 1,400 years based on 130 years of empirical data. Some creationists have used Barnes' argument as evidence for a young earth, less than 10,000 years as suggested by the Bible. His critics discredit this concept, claiming that Barnes failed to take experimental uncertainties into account and used an obsolete model of the interior of the earth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57548152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57548152", "title": "Wayne Simmons (commentator)", "text": "Wayne Simmons (commentator)\n\nWayne Simmons was a Fox News guest commentator who claimed to be an ex-CIA agent. He was exposed as a fraud by actual CIA analyst Kent Clizbe, and convicted of multiple counts of fraud and other violations in 2016.\n"}
