{"id": "15768954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15768954", "title": "Ashworth Moor Reservoir", "text": "Ashworth Moor Reservoir\n\nAshworth Moor Reservoir is an upland water supply reservoir amongst the Pennines in Greater Manchester, England close to the A680 road between Rochdale and Edenfield. It is south of Scout Moor Wind Farm.\n"}
{"id": "17794845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17794845", "title": "Birch tar", "text": "Birch tar\n\nBirch tar or birch pitch is a substance (liquid when heated) derived from the dry distillation of the bark of the birch tree.\n\nIt is composed of phenols such as guaiacol, cresol, xylenol and creosol.\n\nBirch tar was used widely as an adhesive as early as the Middle Paleolithic to early Mesolithic era. Neanderthals produced tar through the dry distillation of birch bark as early as 200,000 years ago. It has also been used as a disinfectant, in leather dressing, and in medicine.\n\n5,000-year-old chewing gum made from birch bark tar, with tooth imprints, has been found in Kierikki in Finland.\n\nEnds of fletching of arrows were fastened with birch-tar and birch-tar-and-rawhide lashings were used to fix the blade of axes in the Mesolithic period.\n\nRussia leather is a water-resistant leather, oiled with birch oil after tanning. This leather was a major export good from 17th and 18th century Russia, as the availability of birch oil limited its geographical production. The oil impregnation also deterred insect attack and gave a distinctive and pleasant aroma that was seen as a mark of quality in leather. \n\nBirch tar is also one of the components of Vishnevsky liniment.\n\nBirch tar oil is an effective repellent of gastropods. The repellent effect lasts about two weeks. The repellent effect of birch tar oil mixed with petroleum jelly applied to a fence lasts up to several months. \n\nBirch tar oil is also used in perfumery as a base note to impart leather, tar, smoky, and wintergreen notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2231692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231692", "title": "Bohm diffusion", "text": "Bohm diffusion\n\nThe diffusion of plasma across a magnetic field was conjectured to follow the Bohm diffusion scaling as indicated from the early plasma experiments of very lossy machines. This predicted that the rate of diffusion was linear with temperature and inversely linear with the strength of the confining magnetic field.\n\nThe rate predicted by Bohm diffusion is much higher than the rate predicted by classical diffusion, which develops from a random walk within the plasma. The classical model scaled inversely with the square of the magnetic field. If the classical model is correct, small increases in the field lead to much longer confinement times. If the Bohm model is correct, magnetically confined fusion would not be practical.\n\nEarly fusion energy machines appeared to behave according to Bohm's model, and by the 1960s there was a significant stagnation within the field. The introduction of the tokamak in 1968 was the first evidence that the Bohm model did not hold for all machines. Bohm predicts rates that are too fast for these machines, and classical too slow; studying these machines has led to the neoclassical diffusion concept.\n\nBohm diffusion is characterized by a diffusion coefficient equal to\n\nwhere \"B\" is the magnetic field strength, \"T\" is the temperature, and \"e\" is the elementary charge.\n\nIt was first observed in 1949 by David Bohm, E. H. S. Burhop, and Harrie Massey while studying magnetic arcs for use in isotope separation. It has since been observed that many other plasmas follow this law. Fortunately there are exceptions where the diffusion rate is lower, otherwise there would be no hope of achieving practical fusion energy. In Bohm's original work he notes that the fraction 1/16 is not exact; in particular \"the exact value of [the diffusion coefficient] is uncertain within a factor of 2 or 3.\" Lyman Spitzer considered this fraction as a factor related to plasma instability.\n\nGenerally diffusion can be modelled as a random walk of steps of length formula_2 and time formula_3. If the diffusion is collisional, then formula_2 is the mean free path and formula_3 is the inverse of the collision frequency. The diffusion coefficient \"D\" can be expressed variously as\n\nwhere formula_7 is the velocity between collisions.\n\nIn a magnetized plasma, the collision frequency is usually small compared to the gyrofrequency, so that the step size is the gyroradius formula_8 and the step time is the collision time, formula_3, which is related to the collision frequency through formula_10, leading to formula_11. If the collision frequency is larger than the gyrofrequency, then the particles can be considered to move freely with the thermal velocity \"v\" between collisions, and the diffusion coefficient takes the form formula_12. Evidently the classical (collisional) diffusion is maximum when the collision frequency is equal to the gyrofrequency, in which case \"D\" = ρ²ω = \"v\"²/ω. Substituting ρ = \"v\"/ω, \"v\" = (kT/\"m\"), and ω = \"eB\"/\"m\", we arrive at \"D\" = kT/\"eB\", which is the Bohm scaling. Considering the approximate nature of this derivation, the missing 1/16 in front is no cause for concern. Therefore, at least within a factor of order unity, Bohm diffusion is always greater than classical diffusion.\n\nIn the common low collisionality regime, classical diffusion scales with 1/\"B\"², compared with the 1/\"B\" dependence of Bohm diffusion. This distinction is often used to distinguish between the two.\n\nIn light of the calculation above, it is tempting to think of Bohm diffusion as classical diffusion with an anomalous collision rate that maximizes the transport, but the physical picture is different. Anomalous diffusion is the result of turbulence. Regions of higher or lower electric potential result in eddies because the plasma moves around them with the E-cross-B drift velocity equal to \"E\"/\"B\". These eddies play a similar role to the gyro-orbits in classical diffusion, except that the physics of the turbulence can be such that the decorrelation time is approximately equal to the turn-over time, resulting in Bohm scaling. Another way of looking at it is that the turbulent electric field is approximately equal to the potential perturbation divided by the scale length formula_2, and the potential perturbation can be expected to be a sizeable fraction of the \"k\"\"T\"/\"e\". The turbulent diffusion constant formula_14 is then independent of the scale length and is approximately equal to the Bohm value.\n\nThe theoretical understanding of plasma diffusion especially the Bohm diffusion remained elusive until the 1970s when Taylor and McNamara put forward a 2d guiding center plasma model. The concepts of negative temperature state, and of the convective cells contributed much to the understanding of the diffusion. The underlying physics may be explained as follows. The process can be a transport driven by the thermal fluctuations, corresponding to the lowest possible random electric fields. The low-frequency spectrum will cause the ExB drift. Due to the long range nature of Coulomb interaction, the wave coherence time is long enough to allow virtually free streaming of particles across the field lines. Thus, the transport would be the only mechanism to limit the run of its own course and to result in a self-correction by quenching the coherent transport through the diffusive damping. To quantify these statements, we may write down the diffusive damping time as τ=1/kD, where k is the wave number perpendicular to the magnetic field. Therefore, the step size is cδE τ/B, and the diffusion coefficient is\n\nIt clearly yields for the diffusion a scaling law of B for the 2d plasma. The thermal fluctuation is typically a small portion of the particle thermal energy. It is reduced by the plasma parameter ε≡(nλ)«1, and is given by |δE|~εnkT/π~4πnqλ, where n is the plasma density, λ is the Debye length, and T is the plasma temperature. Taking 1/k~λ and substituting the electric field by the thermal energy, we would have D~(2cqπ/B)(λn)~(ε)ckT/qB/2π.\n\nThe 2D plasma model becomes invalid when the parallel decoherence is significant. A mechanism of Hsu diffusion proposed in 2013 by Hsu, Wu, Agarwal and Ryu. predicts a scaling law of B.\n\nIn 2015, new exact explanation for the original Bohm’s experiment is reported, in which the cross-field diffusion measured at Bohm’s experiment and Simon’s experiment were explained by the combination of the ion gyro-center shift and the short circuit effect. The ion gyro-center shift occurs when an ion collides with a neutral to exchange the momentum; typical example is ion-neutral charge exchange reaction. The one directional shifts of gyro-centers take place when ions are in the perpendicular (to the magnetic field) drift motion such as diamagnetic drift. The electron gyro-center shift is relatively small since the electron gyro-radius is much smaller than ion’s so it can be disregarded. Once ions move across the magnetic field by the gyro-center shift, this movement generates spontaneous electric unbalance between in and out of the plasma. However this electric unbalance is immediately compensated by the electron flow through the parallel path and conducting end wall, when the plasma is contained in the cylindrical structure as in Bohm’s and Simon’s experiments. Simon recognized this electron flow and named it as ‘short circuit’ effect in 1955. With the help of short circuit effect the ion flow induced by the diamagnetic drift now becomes whole plasma flux which is proportional to the density gradient since the diamagnetic drift includes pressure gradient. The diamagnetic drift can be described as (kT/eB)∇n/n, (here n is density) for approximately constant temperature over the diffusion region. When the particle flux is proportional to (kT/eB)∇n/n, the other part than ∇n/n is the diffusion coefficient. So naturally the diffusion is proportional to kT/eB. The other front coefficient of this diffusion is a function of the ratio between the charge exchange reaction rate and the gyro frequency. A careful analysis tells this front coefficient for Bohm’s experiment was in the range of 1/13 ~ 1/40. The gyro-center shift analysis also reported the turbulence induced diffusion coefficient which is responsible for the anomalous diffusion in many fusion devices; described as (2/π)(δn/n)(kT/eB). This means different two diffusion mechanisms (the arc discharge diffusion such as Bohm’s experiment and the turbulence induced diffusion such as in the tokamak) have been called by the same name of “Bohm diffusion”.\n\n"}
{"id": "30782176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30782176", "title": "Capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer", "text": "Capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer\n\nA Capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) is a relatively new concept in the field of ultrasonic transducers. Most of the commercial ultrasonic transducers today are based on piezoelectricity. CMUTs are the transducers where the energy transduction is due to change in capacitance. CMUTs are constructed on silicon using micromachining techniques. A cavity is formed in a silicon substrate, and a thin layer suspended on the top of the cavity serves as a membrane on which a metallized layer acts an electrode, together with the silicon substrate which serves as a bottom electrode.\n\nIf an AC signal is applied across the biased electrodes, the vibrating membrane will produce ultrasonic waves in the medium of interest. In this way it works as a transmitter. On the other hand, if ultrasonic waves are applied on the membrane of a biased CMUT, it will generate alternating signal as the capacitance of the CMUT is varied. In this way, it works as a receiver of ultrasonic waves.\n\nAs CMUTs are micromachined devices, it is easier to construct 2D and 3D arrays of transducers using this technology. This means large numbers of CMUTs could be included in a transducer array providing larger bandwidth compared to other transducer technologies. To achieve a high frequency operation using CMUTs is easier due to its smaller dimensions. The frequency of operation depends on the cell size (cavity of membrane), and on the stiffness of the material used as a membrane. As it is built on silicon, the integration of electronics would be easier for the CMUTs compared to other transducer technologies. The properties to use in high frequency with large bandwidth makes it a good choice to use as a transducer in medical imaging, especially in an intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). Because of its broader bandwidth, it could be used in second-harmonic imaging. Also some experiments have been performed to use CMUTs as hydrophones.\n\nSurface micromachining is the traditional way of manufacturing CMUTs. The major limitations of this method include complicated manufacturing process for constructing and sealing etch/drainage channels of the sacrificial material; the need for sacrificial-release channels reduces the available space for transducers, thereby reducing the achievable sound generation capability; limited control of layers' thickness during the manufacturing process; limited cavity thickness due to residues of fluid inside the cell cavity, which can cause stiction between the upper and lower parts of the cell, if the cell is not thick enough.\n\nWafer bonding is the most popular method. In this method, a CMUT is built from two separate wafers, which are later bonded to achieve cells with cavities.\n\nFusion-bonding of wafers.\n\nMulti-user MUMPS (polyMUMPS) process. CMUTs manufactured in the multi-user MUMPS were reported to have reduced performance, such as relatively low resonating frequency.\n\nIn anodic bonding, wafers are sealed at high temperature and in the presence of electric field.\n\nIn this method the manufacturing is performed in reverse order, compared to the traditional way. The structural membrane is in silicon-nitride LPCVD, but the entire process is low-temperature, so it is CMOS-compatible. There are no etch-hole on the radiating surface of the device. The connection pads are on the back of the device, without using of through VIAs in the silicon, and the silicon substrate is completely removed. A custom acoustic backing is used to improve acoustic performances of the device. The process uses few masks (7-8).\n\nAs mentioned earlier, one of the significant advantages of CMUTs over piezoelectric transducers is the ability to integrate CMUTs with electrical circuits, using existing manufacturing methods.\n\nCMUT performance is benchmarked using pitch-catch and pulse-echo experiments, and operation uniformity is tested in air and in immersion. In a pitch-catch experiment, the transducer is benchmarked using a hydrophone, and in a pulse-echo experiment, the transducer is used both for transmitting and receiving, while comparing the measured signal to the hydrophone response.\n\nThe CMUT-on-CMOS technology and the flip-chip process allows tight integration of CMUTs with front-end electronics, which is necessary for miniature medical imaging devices, such as IVUS.\n\n"}
{"id": "284998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284998", "title": "Chevrolet Impala", "text": "Chevrolet Impala\n\nThe Chevrolet Impala () is a full-size car built by Chevrolet for model years 1958 to 1985, 1994 to 1996, and since 2000 onwards.\n\nProduction on the model has been planned to end on June 1, 2019.\n\nThe Impala is Chevrolet's popular flagship passenger car and is generally among the better selling automobiles in the United States.\n\nFor its debut in 1958, the Impala was distinguished from other models by its symmetrical triple taillights. The Caprice was introduced as a top-line Impala Sport Sedan for model year 1965, later becoming a separate series positioned above the Impala in 1966, which, in turn, remained above the Bel Air and the Biscayne. The Impala continued as Chevrolet's most popular full-size model through the mid-1980s. Between 1994–96, the Impala was revised as a 5.7-liter V8–powered version of the Caprice Classic sedan.\n\nIn 2000, the Impala was reintroduced again as a mainstream front-wheel drive Hi-Mid sedan. As of February 2014, the 2014 Impala ranked #1 among Affordable Large Cars in \"U.S. News & World Report\"s rankings. When the tenth generation of the Impala was introduced for the 2014 model year, the ninth generation was rebadged as the Impala Limited and sold only to fleet customers through 2016. During that time both versions were sold in the United States and Canada. The current-generation Impala is also sold in the Middle East, China, and South Korea.\n\nThe Impala name was first used for the full-sized 1956 General Motors Motorama show car that bore Corvette-like design cues, especially the grille. Painted emerald green metallic, with a white interior, the Impala concept car featured hardtop styling. Clare MacKichan's design team, along with designers from Pontiac, started to establish basic packaging and dimensions for their shared 1958 General Motors \"A\" body in June. The first styling sketch that would directly influence the finished Chevrolet automobile was seen by General Motors Styling vice president Harley Earl in October. Seven months later, the basic design was developed.\n\nProduction on the model will be ended on June 1, 2019.\n\nFor 1958, GM was promoting their fiftieth year of production, and introduced anniversary models for each brand; Cadillac, Buick, Oldsmobile, Pontiac, and Chevrolet. The 1958 models shared a common appearance on the top models for each brand; Cadillac Eldorado Seville, Buick Roadmaster Riviera, Oldsmobile Holiday 88, Pontiac Bonneville Catalina, and the Chevrolet Bel-Air Impala.\n\nThe Impala was introduced for the 1958 model year as top of the line Bel Air hardtops and convertibles. From the windshield pillar rearward, the 1958 Bel Air Impala differed structurally from the lower-priced Chevrolet models. Hardtops had a slightly shorter greenhouse and longer rear deck. The wheelbase of the Impala was longer than the lower priced models, although the overall length was identical. Interiors held a two-spoke steering wheel and color-keyed door panels with brushed aluminum trim. No other series included a convertible.\n\nThe 1958 Chevrolet models were longer, lower, and wider than its predecessors. The 1958 model year was the first with dual headlamps. The tailfins of the 1957 were replaced by deeply sculptured rear fenders. Impalas had three taillights each side, while lesser models had two and wagons just one. The Impalas included crossed-flag insignias above the side moldings, as well as bright rocker moldings and dummy rear-fender scoops.\n\nThe standard perimeter-type frame was abandoned, replaced by a unit with rails laid out in the form of an elongated \"X.\" Chevrolet claimed that the new frame offered increased torsional rigidity and allowed for a lower placement of the passenger compartment. This was a transitional step between traditional construction and the later fully unitized body/chassis, the body structure was strengthened in the rocker panels and firewall. However, this frame was not as effective in protecting the interior structure in a side impact crash, as a traditional perimeter frame.\n\nA coil spring suspension replaced the previous year's rear leaf springs, and an air ride system was optional. A engine was the standard V8, with ratings that ranged from 185 to 290 horsepower. A \"W\" block (not to be confused with the big-block) Turbo-Thrust V8 was optional, producing , , or . The Ramjet fuel injection was available as an option for the Turbo-Fire 283 V8, not popular in 1958.\n\nA total of 55,989 Impala convertibles and 125,480 coupes were built representing 15 percent of Chevrolet production. The 1958 Chevrolet Bel Air Impala helped Chevrolet regain the number one production spot in this recession year.\n\nThe 1959 Chevrolet Impala was redesigned. Sharing bodyshells with lower-end Buicks and Oldsmobiles as well as with Pontiac, part of a GM economy move, the Chevrolet's wheelbase was 1-1/2 inches longer. Using a new X-frame chassis, the roof line was three inches lower, bodies were two inches wider, and curb weight increased. Its tailfins protruded outward, rather than upward. The taillights were a large \"teardrop\" design at each side, and two slim-wide nonfunctional front air intake scoops were added just above the grille,\n\nThe Impala became a separate series, adding a four-door hardtop and four-door sedan, to the two-door Sport Coupe and convertible. Sport Coupes featured a shortened roof line and wrap-over back window. The standard engine was an I6, while the base V8 was the carryover , at . Optional were a 283 cu in with and V8 up to . Standard were front and rear armrests, an electric clock, dual sliding sun visors, and crank-operated front vent windows. A contoured hooded instrument panel held deep-set gauges. A six-way power seat was a new option, as was \"Speedminder\", for the driver to set a needle at a specific speed and a buzzer would sound if the pre-set was exceeded.\n\nThe 1960 Impala models reinstated three round taillights on each side, and a white band running along the rear fenders.\n\nThe available V8s were reduced to seven, in 283-cu in or 348-cu in displacements. The carbureted Turbo-Fire 283 cu in V8 could have either . The 348 cu in was available in with a Special Super Turbo-Thrust with triple two-barrel carburetors, 11.25:1 compression ratio, and dual exhausts. Fuel injection was no longer an option on full-size Chevrolets. New to the options list was speed and cruise control.\n\nProduction was 490,000 units.\n\nRight-hand drive cars were made in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada, for New Zealand, Australia, and South Africa and assembled locally from CKD or SKD kits. The right-hand drive dashboard was a mirror image of the 1959 Chevrolet panel and shared with equivalent right-hand drive Pontiac models. Australian models were assembled by hand on the GMH Holden assembly lines.\n\nThe Impala was restyled on the GM B platform for the first time for 1961. The new body styling was more trim and boxy than the 1958–1960 models. Sport Coupe models featured a \"bubbleback\" roof line style for 1961, and a unique model, the 2-door pillared sedan, was available for 1961 only. It was rarely ordered. A \"Super Sport\" (SS) option debuted for 1961. This was also the last year the top station wagon model would have the Nomad name. Power brakes were $43.\n\nThe 1962 model featured new \"C\" pillar styling for all models except the 4-door hardtop. Sport Coupe models now featured the \"convertible roof\" styling, shared with other GM \"B\" full-size hardtop coupes. This style proved popular. The \"overhang\" roof style of the sedans was replaced with a wider \"C\" pillar with wraparound rear window. These engines could only be ordered with a manual shift transmission. The small-block 283 was offered with a two barrel carburetor. The 283 was also enlarged to , offered in two versions, one with and one with , which added more engine choices for small-block fans. The Beach Boys produced a hit single, \"409\", referring to the Chevrolet, which became an iconic song for these cars. Impalas again featured premium interior appointments, plusher seats could be done by the dealerships on customer request. And more chrome trim outside, including a full-width aluminum-and-chrome panel to house the triple-unit taillight assembly. Super Sport (SS) models featured that panel in a special engine-turned aluminum, which was also used to fill the side moldings, making the SS more distinctive in appearance. The Impala also gained the top trim station wagon body design, in place of the Chevrolet Nomad model. Due to reliability problems, the optional Turboglide automatic transmission was discontinued, leaving Powerglide the only automatic transmission available until 1965. A new radio was optional.\n\nThe 1963 Impala featured rectilinear styling with an engine-turned aluminum rear taillight panel surrounded by a chrome border on SS models. Engine choice was similar to 1962, with the small-block V8s most popular. The Sport Sedan featured a new, creased roof line. A new \"coved\" instrument panel with simple indicator lights for hot and cold engine conditions. An optional factory tachometer was built into the dashboard, just above the steering wheel; it was rarely ordered.\n\nA special 427-cubic-inch (7.0 L) version of the 409 engine was used in the 1963 Chevrolet Impala Sport Coupe, ordered under Chevrolet Regular Production Option (RPO) Z11. This was a special package created for drag racers, as well as NASCAR, and it consisted of a 427 cubic inch engine with aluminum body parts, and a cowl-induction air intake system. The aluminum body parts were fabricated in Flint, Michigan at the facility now known as GM Flint Metal Center. Unlike the later, second-generation 427, it was based on the W-series 409 engine, but with a longer 3.65 in (93 mm) stroke. A high-rise, two-piece aluminum intake manifold and dual Carter AFB carburetors fed a 13.5:1 compression ratio to produce an under-rated 430 hp (320 kW) and 575 lb·ft (780 N·m) of torque. 50 RPO Z11 cars were produced at the Flint GM plant.\n\nFor 1964, the Impala was restyled to a more rounded, softer look. The signature taillight assembly had an \"upside-down U\" shaped aluminum trim strip above the taillights, but the individual lights were surrounded by a body-colored panel. The V8 engine returned as the big-block option, as well as the Rochester 2X4-barrel carburetors setup for the at 6,000 rpm and at 4,200 rpm of torque engines. SS models continued to feature the engine-turned aluminum trim. Rooflines were carried over from 1963 unchanged. Back-up lights were standard.\n\nRight hand drive cars were made at GM's Oshawa plant in Canada and often shipped overseas in kit form for assembly in South Africa and New Zealand. The RHD cars — Chevrolet or equivalent Pontiac (built on Chevrolet frames and using Chevrolet engines in Canada) — all used a right hand drive version of the left hand drive 1961 Pontiac dashboard.\n\nRedesigned in 1965, the Impala set an all-time industry annual sales record of more than 1 million units in the United States. All new full-size Chevrolets eschewed the \"X\" frame for a full-width perimeter frame, a new body that featured curved, frameless side glass (for pillarless models), sharper angled windshield with newly reshaped vent windows, and redesigned full-coil suspension.\n\nIn 1965, Chevrolet introduced the Impala Caprice, exclusively as a four-door hardtop. Caprices received tufted upholstery, wood grained accents on the dashboard and specialty pulls on the insides of the doors. This \"halo\" model also featured the \"spinner\" wheel covers from the Impala SS, with the \"SS\" logo centers replaced by a Chevrolet \"bowtie\" emblem. The Super Sport's blackout rear trim strip below the triple taillights was also used, with the \"Impala SS\" emblem replaced by a large \"Caprice by Chevrolet\" badge. The Caprice Custom was reintroduced as the Chevrolet Caprice in 1966, taking the top position in the full-size Chevrolet lineup.\n\nEngine choices included the inline six-cylinder as well as the small-block and big-block V8s. A new three-range Turbo Hydra-Matic automatic transmission was optional for V8. The old \"W\" engine was discontinued early in the 1965 model year, so early-production 1965s got the 409, as well as 1/10 of 1% had the 396 CID big-block. Other later-built cars had the as the big-block option. Two-speed Powerglide, as well as 3- and 4-speed manual transmissions were available. As with previous years, Impalas featured more chrome trim inside and out, with pleated tufted upholstery and door panels. The Impala would be the #2-selling convertible in the US in 1966, with 38,000 sold; it was beaten by the Mustang by almost 2:1. 1966 saw a pair of enlarged big-block V8s featuring . The RPO L36 was rated at , the L72 at . The L72 was only available with a manual transmission.\n\nThe 1967 model was redesigned with enhanced Coke bottle styling that featured Corvette-inspired front and rear fender bulges. The curves were the most pronounced with the 1967–1968 models. In keeping with federal regulations, safety features were built into Impalas during the 1967 and 1968 model years, including a fully collapsible energy-absorbing steering column, side marker lights, and shoulder belts for closed models. The L72 engine was not available in 1967, but a L36 Turbo-Jet V8 was optional.\nThe 1968 model was facelifted with a new front end. The new rear bumper housed triple \"horseshoe\" shaped taillights. 1968 also saw a new Impala model, the Custom Coupe. This two-door hardtop featured the same formal roofline as the Caprice Coupe. It was successful and would be continued right through 1976. The L72 \"427 Turbo-Jet\" engine was once again returned to the option list, a solid-lifter V8 rated at . It would continue to be available for both 1968 and 1969, replaced by the Turbo-Jet 454 for 1970.\n\nThe 1969 Impala and other full-sized Chevrolets got new slab-sided bodies with a small \"upsweep\" at the rear quarter window, giving them a more formal appearance. It retained the 119-inch wheelbase from previous models. New front bumpers that wrapped around the grille and horizontal taillights were in the rear bumper. The hardtop Sport Coupe got a new notchback roofline, replacing the \"fastback\" C-pillar from 1967 to 1968. Ventless front windows were used on all models. Chevrolet had a rudimentary \"power vent\" system featuring vents in the instrument panel. The ignition switch was moved from the instrument panel to the steering column, and when the key was removed, the steering wheel and shift lever were locked.\n\nThe 1969 model year Impala production topped Caprice production by 611,000 units. Impala station wagons were renamed Kingswood, a name which would continue through 1972. The similar 1970 Impala got a minor facelift featuring a more conventional under the grille bumper replacing the wrap-around unit used in 1969 along with new triple vertical taillights in the rear bumper. Canadian buyers got the choice of a lower priced companion to the Impala Sport Coupe, the Bel Air Sport Coupe, which used the same body but featured Bel Air trim.\n\nRight hand drive cars were manufactured in Canada for export to countries such as Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, etc., until 1969. They used a version of the 1965 Impala dash panel — without provision for a radio and installed in a dashboard moulding made of fibreglass, not metal — until 1969. Radios (centrally mounted) and heaters were locally sourced and wipers parked in the center of the windscreen. Australian models were assembled in Australia from kits, as this lessened tax on the cars. The Australian cars had locally sourced amber flashing rear indicators replacing the clear reversing lenses, as red flashers were banned there. For New Zealand assembly, the bodies were supplied from Canada already welded, painted and trimmed.\n\nIn 1961, the Impala SS (Super Sport) was introduced to the market. The SS badge was to become Chevrolet's signature of performance on many models, though it often has been an appearance package only. The Impala's factory SS package in 1961 was truly a performance package when so equipped from the factory with both the trim and \"mandatory\" suspension and engine upgrades, beginning with the V8 engines available with , , and or the new V8, which was available with up to . Unlike all other years, the 1961 Super Sport package was available on any Impala, including sedans and station wagons (the sales brochure shows a 4-door hardtop Sport Sedan with the SS package). The package also included upgraded tires on station wagon wheels, springs, shocks and special sintered metallic brake linings. Only 142 1961 Impala Super Sports came from the factory with the 409. In addition to the factory-installed SS package, Chevrolet dealers could add SS trim to any standard Impala without the \"mandatory\" performance upgrades, and a number of '61s were so equipped.\n\nStarting for the 1962 model year, the Impala SS was an appearance package limited to hardtop coupe and convertible coupe models, available with all engines in the Impala series starting with the base , inline-6 through 1967, though the big-block engines and heavy-duty parts could still be ordered. From 1967 to 1969, an additional model, the SS427, was available.\n\nThe Super Sport was known as Regular Production Option (RPO) Z03, from 1962 to 1963, and again in 1968. From 1964 through 1967, the Super Sport was a separate model, with its own VIN prefix (for V8 models, 168 versus the 164 for the regular Impala). Super Sports from 1962 to 1964 came with engine-turned aluminum trim, which was replaced by a \"blackout\" trim strip in 1965 which ran under the taillights. 1965 Super Sport exteriors differed only slightly from regular Impalas. Rocker panel trim was deleted. \"Super Sport\" scripts replaced the \"Impala\" fender badges. The new center console housed a rally-type electric clock, and full instrumentation now included a vacuum gauge. A total of 243,114 Impala SS coupes and convertibles were built for 1965.\n\nThe 1966 Impala SS was facelifted with a revised grille and new rectangular taillights that replaced the triple round units. A chrome beltline strip shared with regular Impalas was added in response to complaints about door dings on the clean-lined 1965s. Inside were new \"Strato-bucket\" front seats with thinner and higher seat backs, and a center console with an optional gauge package available. Sales of the 1966 Impala SS dropped by more than 50% to around 117,000 units; this was mainly due to the sport/performance car market switching from full-sized models to intermediates (including Chevrolet's own Chevelle SS396 and Pontiac GTO), along with the emerging market for the even smaller pony car market created by the Ford Mustang in 1964 that Chevrolet would respond to with the Camaro for 1967.\n\nThe 1967 Impala SS was less decorated than other Impalas; Super Sports had black grille accents and black-accented body-side and rear fender moldings. Lesser models leaned more toward brightwork inside and out. Buyers could choose either vinyl bucket seats with a center console, or a Strato-Bench seat with a fold-down center armrest. Standard wheel covers were the same as the optional full covers on other big Chevrolets, but the centers featured the \"SS\" logo surrounded by tri-color ring of red, white and blue. \"Chevrolet\" and \"Impala\" callouts on the body were all replaced by \"Impala SS\" badges. Of the 76,055 Impala SS models built, just 2,124 were ordered with RPO Z24, a special performance package that included RPO F41 heavy-duty suspension and other performance features, RPO L36 () Turbo-Jet V8, as well as a special trim package that replaced the \"Impala SS\" badges with large \"SS427\" emblems on the front grille and rear trim. None of these cars had the name \"Impala\" anywhere on the body or interior, and Chevrolet often marketed them as the \"Chevrolet SS427,\" \"sans\" the \"Impala\" name. The Z24 package also included a special hood with fake chrome-plated intake. Only about 400 Super Sports had a six-cylinder engine from 1967 to 1968, in 1969, or L72 () from 1968 to 1969. Special SS427 badging, inside and out, was the rule, but few were sold, since muscle car enthusiasts were seeking big-block intermediates, such as the Chevelle SS396 and Plymouth Road Runner.\n\nIn 1968 as Caprice sales escalated, those of the Impala Super Sport suffered a decline. Much of this drop in sales was no doubt due to the availability of big-block engines in the mid-sized (and lighter) Chevelle, and even Novas could be special-ordered with the 396 engine with the new-for-1968 body. No longer a separate series, the Super Sport was a mere $179 option package (Regular Production Option Z03) for the two Impala coupes and the convertible. Only 38,210 Impalas were so-equipped, including 1,778 with the Z24 package, which was carried over from 1967. In 1968 only, SS427s could be ordered without the Z03 SS package, which meant SS427 equipment but no bucket seats, SS door panels, or center console. The Z03 Impala SS could be identified by \"Impala Super Sport\" badges on the front grille, rear fenders and trunk lid. Z24-optioned cars included \"SS427\" emblems to replace the \"Impala Super Sport\" badges, a special layered \"pancake\" hood, and three \"gills\" mounted on the front fender aft of the wheel well \"à la\" Corvette Stingray.\n\nIn 1969, the Impala SS was available only as the Z24 (SS427), coming exclusively with a V8 of , , or . This was the final year for the Impala SS until 1994. Unlike the previous two years, the 1969s finally got \"Impala\" script on the front fenders and interior. The 1969 Impala SS had no distinctive SS badging inside the car except for an \"SS\" logo the steering wheel (again, there was no Z03 offered that year). Like the 1968s, the Z24 could be ordered on the Impala convertible, Sport Coupe, or Custom Coupe. 1969 was the last year that the Impala SS was offered with the Z24 package, but the only year in which front disc brakes and wheels were standard; that made the 1969 SS427 mechanically better than the previous versions in standard form. Although sales of 1969 Z24-optioned Impalas increased to approximately 2,455 units from the 1,778 Z03-optioned units of 1968, and high-powered big-block V8 engines continued to be available, there would be no Impala SS for 1970. The 427 was also replaced on the engine offerings list by a new Turbo-Jet 454 producing \n\nThe 1965–1970 GM B platform is the fourth best selling automobile platform in history after the Volkswagen Beetle, Ford Model T and the Lada Riva.\n\nThe Impala remained Chevrolet's top-selling model with the fifth generation. A high-performance big block V8 was still available in the form of the Turbo-Jet 454, which produced in 1971, but power decreased as the years went along. The 1971 redesigned B-body would be the largest car ever offered by Chevrolet. The hardtop Sport Coupe continued to be offered; it was a smoothly sloped semi-fastback reminiscent of the 1961 \"bubbletop\" styling. A three-speed manual transmission remained standard at the beginning of the year, but in the spring of 1971 all V8-equipped full-size GM cars got Turbo Hydra-Matic as standard equipment. Powerglide remained optionally available for six-cylinder cars until the 1973 models. In keeping with their huge size, these new \"B\" body Chevrolets were close to Cadillac in luxury features, styling, and ride. Like all GM \"B\" bodied cars, Impala got a new power ventilation system that remained on while the ignition was on, and included both large vents in the instrument panel and louvers in the trunk. However, the system proved to be problematic and was disliked by many buyers.\n\nThe 1972 model has a grille which extended below the bumper. Powertrains consisted of mostly V8 engines. The 250 inline six was still standard for Sport Coupe and 4-door sedan models; the 350 2bbl V8 became the standard engine from 1973–1976, with , , (through 72) or optional. The best-selling body style was the formal-roof Custom Coupe. Beginning in 1972, all engines were designed to run on unleaded gasoline. 1972 saw the last Impala convertible; it sold 6,456 copies, placing fourth with just under 9 percent of the market, right behind the Corvette 6,508, ahead of the Mustang's 6,401. The power ventilation system was improved, and exit vents were moved from the trunk lid to the door pillars.\n\n1973 Chevrolets featured a larger, shock-absorbing front bumper due to new federal mandates which required impact protection. New taillights were mounted in the (still) conventional rear bumper. The convertible was moved upmarket to the Caprice Classic series. Tweaks to the suspension and frame gave better roadability, according to Chevrolet general manager John Z. DeLorean. Steering wheels and instrument panels were color-keyed to interior colors, as opposed to the matte black used in 1971–1972. The steering wheel rim got a soft-feel grip, and replaced the \"Impala\" badge with generic \"Chevrolet.\" The inline six-cylinder engine was now offered on the Bel Air 4-door sedan only, and only with the 3-speed manual transmission. Interiors had repositioned front seats for more legroom. The Impala name returned for the Kingswood station wagon. Suspension and chassis design was modified for better roadability.\n\n1,000 1973 Impalas were built with an \"Air Cushion Restraint System\" (ACRS) that used an Oldmobile instrument panel and unique steering wheel that contained both a driver and front passenger air bag. They were all four-door sedans painted in a special green-gold color. The system was not advertised in a big way and many of the cars were used for crash testing by both GM and the Federal government. Over the decades the system proved durable and successfully protected front passengers in front-end collisions. Unfortunately Chevy did not offer ACRS in 1974; however it was offered in Oldsmobile and Cadillac models that year as an option and did save lives. One ACRS-equipped Impala was preserved and remains a witness to the ability of an American automaker to design life saving safety systems into cars without a government mandate. No other examples are known as of this time.\n\nIn 1974, the rear bumper was redesigned with shock absorbers to meet the upgraded standards and new tail lights were featured. The front end was also freshened as in previous years, with a new grille and headlight bezels, a new header panel, and a bumper with a drop down center section. The marker lights moved back up beside the headlamps once again. This was the only year of the 1971–1976 models the Impala had a different front end design than the Caprice Classic, as other years used either a grille insert or previous year Caprice front to distinguish the two. The rooflines of the Impala coupes were also revised. For 1974 the Custom Coupe was no longer a hardtop, with large fixed rear quarter glass and a thick B-pillar. The Sport Coupe, still a pillar-less hardtop, now used larger roll-down quarter glass like that of the 1971–1973 Custom Coupe, and had a narrower, fastback style, flat back window. Sedans used carryover body shells from previous years.\n\nA limited-edition Spirit of America package was offered in 1974 on Sport Coupe models; primarily an appearance package, it featured white or blue body paint, a white full vinyl top, white upholstery with red or blue trim, color-keyed seat belts and floormats, special wheel covers, optional white rally wheels, sports-styled dual remote outside rear view mirrors, a vinyl body side molding insert, and red pin-striping. Special fender and dashboard badges announced the package to passers-by and passengers. Chevrolet also offered Nova and Vega Spirit of America versions as well.\n\nThe 1975 Impala used a 1974 carried-over Caprice front end, with a grille insert and emblem change. The Caprice model was revised with a new front end with a swept back style header panel with recessed headlight buckets, a new hood, and new fenders. Also in 1975 upholstery, door panels and the dashboard were revised as were the radio and climate control graphics. Speedometers read up to , and added kilometers per hour. A High Energy Ignition (HEI) system was officially introduced in 1975, although it was installed on some 1974 cars as a clandestine option. Catalytic converters were also introduced, as were several new options, including an Econominder gauge package (which also included a coolant temperature gauge), intermittent wipers, and a divided 50/50 bench seat with passenger-side recliner (with a choice of sport cloth or vinyl trim). This was the final year of the full-size Chevrolet convertible. Four-door models got new rooflines; the hardtop Sport Sedan got a small triangular \"opera window\" carved out of the wide roof panel.\n\nA Landau model available for 1975–1976 models featured a landau vinyl roof (with a chrome band across the roof), a choice of special paint colors, sports-styled dual remote outside rearview mirrors, color-keyed wheel covers, a vinyl bodyside molding insert, and pin-striping. Inside were color-keyed seat belts and floormats. Fender and dashboard emblems rounded out the package. The 2-door hardtop model (dubbed the \"Sport Coupe\") was discontinued after 1975, leaving redesigned Custom Coupe, with its wide \"B\" pillar and fixed rear window, the only 2-door Impala available in 1976. This body style had been introduced for the 1974 model year, a precursor to Detroit's complete abandonment of pillarless body styles before the end of the Seventies. 1976 Impalas used a previous year Caprice nose, with a new \"egg crate\" grille insert. The Impala had round headlamps while the Caprice used the new quad rectangular ones.\n\nInline-Six:\n\nSmall-block V8:\n\n\nBig-block V8:\n\nThe changes in the automobile marketplace resulted in Chevrolet redesigning the Impala once again in 1976 to meet changing demands. The new downsized Impalas were shorter in length, taller and narrower than before. The new Impala's frame was a shortened version of the one introduced in 1970 and would be utilized until 1996 when the B-body production line was shut down. Even with its trimmer exterior dimensions, the new Impala featured increased headroom, rear-seat legroom and trunk space. Production of the downsized model increased substantially over 1976, and the Impala regained the number one US sales position. The redesigned 1977 Impala/Caprice was named \"Motor Trend\" car of the year. The new body was taller and narrower than the 1976 model.\n\nPillarless hardtops were discontinued, the result of rumors of federal rollover standards looming in the near future. The 1977–1979 coupes sported a double bent tempered rear window similar to the 1987 Chevrolet Monte Carlo Aerocoupe. In 1980, all new sheet-metal was used, although the body style remained similar.\n\nEngine availability was reduced for 1977; the inline-6 was reintroduced with . Options included V8 engines. The V8 engine was optional in some years. Oldsmobile's V8 diesel engine also was available. Starting in 1980, the inline 6 was replaced by a generic 229 cubic-inch V6 from Chevrolet which was totally different from the 3.8 liter (231 cubic inch) V6 from Buick that was installed in numerous GM models of different divisions.\n\nThe Impala and the upscale Caprice sold well into the early 1980s. The Impala was reduced to the base model full-size Chevrolet and was popular with fleet usage – including taxi and police-pursuit vehicles, but was discontinued in 1985, while the Caprice continued unchanged until 1990. Upon the demise of the Impala, the base model full-size Chevrolet was re-branded Caprice starting in 1986, with the upper models being called the Caprice Classic and Caprice Classic Brougham.\n\nIn January 1990, the GM B platform was redesigned for the 1991 model year, though it retained the same shortened frame design of the 1977 model year redesign. The Impala SS badge was resurrected at the 1992 Detroit Auto Show as a concept car designed by GM designer Jon Moss. The concept car was two inches lower to the ground than the regular Caprice, and was powered by a engine. Eventually, the concept car's engine was replaced with a engine derived from the Corvette.\n\nThe 1994 Impala SS went into production on February 14, 1994, at GM's plant in Arlington, Texas, and was almost identical cosmetically to the concept car, the only noticeable change being the chromed bowtie logo on the grill (vs a red logo on the concept). The car was, in essence, a high-performance version of the Caprice. It used the Caprice 9C1 police package as its base and as such got most of the equipment formerly available only to law enforcement and government agencies. This included a sport-tuned suspension with reinforced shocks and springs, a high-capacity reverse-flow cooling system (derived from the Corvette's LT1), four-wheel disc brakes, transmission cooler, dual exhaust, a higher-output electrical system, and other minor mechanical alterations. \n\nThe Impala SS was fitted with a standard 3.08 gear. The limited-slip rear differential was standard (as opposed to the option G80 on Caprices) and the suspension was an inch lower. A retuned LT1 small-block V8 was standard on the Impala SS, making and of torque (retuned from the prototype's rating). The primary difference between the LT1 in the Impala and the LT1 that was in the Corvette and Camaro was that the Impala engine was fitted with cast-iron cylinder heads instead of aluminum ones, and a camshaft that was designed more for low-end torque than high-end horsepower. Another difference was that the block casting for the Impala LT1 had two-bolt main bearing caps while the casting used for the Corvette LT1 had four-bolt main bearing caps. The transmission was the 4L60E, which was an electronically controlled version of the previously hydraulically controlled 4L60. \n\nThe Impala SS received body-colored trim, a unique single-bar grille with no hood ornament, and a rear deck spoiler. It was fitted with brushed aluminum wheels with 255/50ZR17 all-season Z-rated tires. Inside, the car came with a central console with cup holders (1994 and 1995 models) and a storage compartment, leather seats embroidered with the Impala SS logo, and a standard leather-wrapped steering wheel. For the 1994 model year, it was available only in black with a gray interior. Due to a shortage of the unique five-spoke aluminum wheels, only 6,303 cars were sold. However, the wheel shortage was remedied for the 1995 model year and 21,434 cars were sold.\n\nIn 1995, Dark Cherry Metallic and Dark Grey Green were added as exterior color options, and the body paneling on the rear quarter panel was altered to reflect the cosmetic effect formerly achieved by a window insert. Another change from 1994 was the placement of the side mirrors from pods attached to the door to a larger format attached to the 'A' pillar. 1996 was the last year of production with 41,941 units sold. The 1996 Impala SS was also exported to the Middle East as the Caprice SS with the car being identical to its American counterpart except for the side fonts on the rear quarter panel and the badge on the dashboard saying \"Caprice SS\". The 1996 Impala SS production went late into the model year; the last one being produced on December 13, 1996. It saw minor interior alterations, with the digital speedometer being replaced by an analog one, along with a tachometer. The shifter was moved from the column to the center console, and the engine was given an OBD-II computer control system (the camshaft was reground to adjust for the new computer).\n\n\nSource:\n\nThe entire B-body line, consisting of the Chevrolet Caprice, Impala SS, and Buick Roadmaster, was discontinued, as GM wanted more assembly lines to be able to produce the more profitable SUVs. A ceremony was held at the plant on December 13, 1996, as the last Impala SS was produced.\n\nThe Impala name was revived for the 2000 model year as the \"Hi-Mid\" program to rename the Lumina as the Chevy Impala. Based on the Lumina's W-body platform, it was built at Oshawa Car Assembly in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. Unlike the earlier Impalas built on a B-body, this one was front-wheel drive and was available with a choice of two engines, the ever-enduring 3.8L V6 engine, and the slightly smaller 3.4L V6 engine. \n\nThe Impala was available in two trim levels from 2000 to 2003. The base model came equipped with cloth bench seats, steel wheels, the 3.4 liter (204 cu in) \"LA1\" V6, and a 3-gauge instrument cluster. The \"LS\" came factory-equipped with cloth bucket seats upgradeable to leather with center console and floor shift, color-keyed \"Impala\" door scripts and trunk badge, anti-lock brakes, traction control system, keyless remote entry, integrated foglamps, aluminum wheels upgradeable to alloy wheels, rear spoiler (optional on the base models), 4-gauge instrument cluster (with tachometer), and the larger 3.8 liter (231 cu in) \"L36\" V6. Options available on all models included a sunroof, OnStar system, Driver Information Center with built-in HomeLink system, heated power front seats, and 16 inch 1990s SS-inspired wheels. All models came equipped with power windows, door locks and mirrors. The rear spoiler was an option on base models, and could be deleted from LS models upon buyers request. \n\nThe 2004 to 2005 Impala SS came equipped with the 3.8 liter (231 cu in) supercharged \"L67\" V6 engine. It was rated at and had been previously used in the Pontiac Grand Prix \"GTP\", Buick Regal \"GS\", Buick Riviera, and H-body Pontiac Bonneville \"SSEI\" and Buick Park Avenue \"Ultra\". The lighter front-wheel-drive sedan was actually as quick as the vaunted 1990s Impala SS, with times pushing 6.5 seconds, compared to the earlier model's time also showing 6.5 seconds (albeit 7.1 seconds on average). To commemorate Chevrolet's long relationship with the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and the Indianapolis 500 race, a limited edition (4,088 produced) Impala Indy SS was offered in 2004, featuring black grille with gold Chevrolet bowtie emblem that would be carried over to all Impala models in 2005, various Indy logos on the exterior and interior, 17-inch chrome wheels, gauge cluster package, and more.\n\nAlso released with this version were the Police Package first released in 2000 and Undercover Police Package first released in 2001, named \"9C1\" and \"9C3\", respectively. Available only to law enforcement agencies, fire departments, and EMS agencies, it has had much more success than its predecessor, the Lumina 9C3. The 9C1 was a base model with a stronger suspension and the 3.8 liter (231 cu in) V6 engine. It was only available in a few basic colors. Another addition was the \"SURV MODE\" switch that replaced the fog light switch found on the LS. This enabled the driver to turn off all lights in the vehicle and \"hide\"; something not allowed with the civilian models, as automatic headlights were standard. The 9C3 was comparably equipped to the 9C1, but the ability to add other convenience options and more paint and interior choices set the 9C3 apart.\n\nThe Impalas 9C1 and 9C3 sales were strong with law enforcement and were especially popular with large city fleets like the NYPD. However, the Ford Crown Victoria P71 still held the sales lead and was preferred by most agencies due to its larger size and much more durable V8 engine and rear wheel drive layout..\n\nThe 2006 Impala was introduced at the 2005 Los Angeles Auto Show in January. Like the Buick LaCrosse, the ninth generation Impala used the updated GM W platform. The base engine was a 3.5 L (214 cu in) V6 producing and of torque at 4,000 rpm. The new Impala featured new taillights, different from the four-circle style of the previous generation. This Impala mostly sold to fleet operators, with private buyers accounting for a quarter of sales.\n\nThe \"SS\" model used the Generation IV small-block V8, the first to do so in a front-wheel-drive Chevrolet, and the first V8 in a Chevrolet sedan since the 1996 Caprice. The 5.3 L (325 cu in) V8 (with Displacement on Demand, called Active Fuel Management or AFM) produced . With the use of the 5.3 L LS4 V8, the Impala SS is capable of a 5.6 second time and a quarter-mile time of 14.2 seconds traveling at . The ninth generation Impala was long, high, and wide with a drag coefficient of 0.33.\n\nAvailable trim levels for the ninth generation were the LS, LT, LTZ, and the SS, respectively. Six-passenger seating was only available as an option on the LS and LT models. Leather upholstery was standard on LTZ models and optional on LT models. The ninth generation Impala featured a wood trim center console with chrome accents on all major control buttons. The dashboard featured a chrome Impala logo embedded in the wood grain trim that runs across the dashboard and onto the doors. The control knobs found throughout the vehicle's cockpit were similar to those found in Buick models as well as the Cadillac DTS, all of which featured a similar center console. Another interior revision was the location of the cup holders, which were moved beneath the midsection of the vehicle's center console.\n\nThe LS was the base model. It offered steel wheels with wheel covers (later alloy wheels), an AM/FM stereo with single-disc CD player, auxiliary input jack, and six speakers, keyless entry, air conditioning, cloth seating surfaces, and a choice of two front bucket or a single front bench seat. The LT was the mid-range model. It offered alloy wheels, MP3 playback capabilities, and optional front heated seats. The LTZ was the most luxurious model. It offered leather seating surfaces that were heated, an AM/FM stereo with six-disc CD/MP3 changer in the dash and a Bose eight-speaker premium sound system, a power sunroof, security system, and OnStar. The SS was the top-of-the-line model until 2009. It offered a 5.3 L V8 engine, leather-and-suede seating surfaces, eighteen-inch machined-finished alloy wheels, and SS badging (The 2006–09 model was the first Impala with a V8 engine since 1996). Due to its unpopularity, the SS trim was discontinued in 2009, leaving the LTZ as the top-of-the-line model for 2010 to be the most powerful, and for a shorter time in 2012–2013, the LS, LT, and LTZ trims were 300 horsepower, and also on the Impala Limited from 2014–2016.\n\nIn 2007, the Impala received the FlexFuel 3.5-liter V6 and Flex Fuel rear badge for the LS, LT, LTZ, and Touring. A new 3.9 L V6 with Active Fuel Management was available. The SS retained the same drivetrain and did not receive the FlexFuel feature due to the high-performance nature of the powertrain. A tire-pressure-monitoring system, cruise control and a CD player were standard on all models, and a factory spoiler was an available option. The LT had 16-inch, five-spoke alloy wheels. The generation-7 OnStar system with turn-by-turn navigation was included when the available directions and connections service was selected. The SS had standard leather-appointed seats and XM Satellite Radio, with XM being optional on LS, LT, and LTZ trims. A new Luxury Edition package featuring leather seating, folding rear seat, and rear spoiler was offered on the LT. There were four new exterior colors—Precisions Red, Imperial Blue Metallic, Bordeaux Red, and Red Jewel Tintcoat, as well as a Regency-outfitted \"Impala RSS\". The RSS included aggressive wheels, front/rear bumper and rocker panel extensions, a spoiler and various interior upgrades.\n\nTo commemorate the Impala's 50th year, a 50th Anniversary Edition was introduced in Spring 2008. Based on the LT, it added a FE3 Sport Suspension (replacing the FE1 Touring Suspension), four-wheel ABS, eighteen-inch SS-style alloy wheels (replacing the 16-inch wheels), rear SS style spoiler, \"50th Anniversary\" Impala badges on the C-pillars, two-tone, leather-trimmed seats with \"50th\" logos embroidered on the front headrests, eight-way power-adjustable driver seat, leather-wrapped steering wheel with accent-color threading including audio controls, ebony carpet, ebony floor mats with accent threading, \"50th\" Anniversary emblems on the sill plates and a choice of two premium exterior colors: Black Granite Metallic and Red Jewel Tintcoat A Luxury Edition package was again available on the LT and now also featured leather-wrapped steering wheel, steering wheel mounted audio controls, traction control, and anti-lock brakes.\n\nFor the 2009 model year, the Impala received three new exterior colors: Victory Red, Silver Ice Metallic, and Aqua Blue Metallic, while the brushed aluminum dash applique was no longer available. All models used the previous SS style spoiler (actually phased in for the late 2008 model year). The Touring trim level was discontinued for 2009. Leather seating was no longer available in combination with the 40/20/40 split bench front seat. The Active Fuel Management feature remained on the 5.3 L V8 with a 17-gallon gas tank for the SS model, but was no longer available on 3.9 L V6 for the LT and LTZ models. A sun and wheel package was available on 1LT models included power sunroof, overhead console with Homelink and 17-inch aluminum wheels. A Bose Premium Audio System was now part of the Luxury Edition package offered on LT models. Thorax side-impact air bags were standard.\n\nFor the 2010 model year, the Impala was the only GM W-body car in production, although the eight-cylinder SS model was discontinued. LT models included fog lights and once again offered an optional Luxury Edition package. The 3.9 L V6 was no longer available for the LT model. Three new exterior colors were available: Summit White, Cyber Gray Metallic, and Aqua Blue Metallic, and four exterior colors were deleted. The (PDG) convenience package, AM/FM stereo with 6-disc in-dash CD changer, and trunk cargo net were no longer available. The Impala emblems on rear sail panels as well as the rear decklid badge on LS models were deleted. Early 2010 models had the lower front-side GM badges but were also later deleted.\n\nFor the 2011 model year, Impala returned in LS, LT, and LTZ trims. Available engines were a 3.5 L V6 (LS or LT) or a 3.9 L V6 (LTZ only). A Luxury Edition package was again an option on the LT and featured leather heated seats, 6-way power front passenger seat, Bose Premium Audio System, XM radio, auto-dimming rearview mirror, Universal Home Remote, outside heated power mirrors, and rear spoiler. The 2011 Impala had the same wheels as the 2012–2013 Impala, but the 2011 Impala was the last model year where the chrome trim on the trunk lid appeared.\n\nFor the 2012 model year, the exterior received a slight refresh and 4 trims: a standard Impala, LS, LT, and LTZ. The 3.5 and 3.9 L engines were dropped in favor of a single, 3.6 L LFX that delivers and of torque. The four-speed automatic transmission is also deleted in favor of a six-speed automatic. The Impala also received new packages, including the LS Uplevel package, LS OnStar and Bluetooth package, LT Sunroof package, LT OnStar package and the LT OnStar and Bluetooth package.\n\nFor the 2013 model year, the Impala was largely a carryover of the 2012 model. Available trims were once again LS, LT, and LTZ. It was the last retail Impala to be offered with optional bench seat and column shift transmission. A Luxury Edition package, last seen on the 2011 model, returned as an option on the LT and featured perforated leather seating surfaces, dual front heated bucket seats with driver's side 8-way and passenger's side 6-way power adjusters, inside rearview auto-dimming mirror, Universal Home Remote, outside heated power adjustable mirrors, Bose 8-speaker premium sound system, six-disc in-dash CD changer that played MP3 and WMA files, with Radio Data System, Sirius-XM satellite radio, and well as iPod and USB inputs, as well as an auxiliary input. Due to the early release of the redesigned 2014 model, the 2013 Impala had an abbreviated model year.\n\nThe ninth generation model remained in production in LS, LT, and LTZ trim until the 2016 model year as a rental, fleet, and police car under the revised model name \"Impala Limited\". The consolidated plant in Oshawa, Canada continued making the Impala Limited, along with the Chevrolet Equinox. Production ended in May 2016.\n\nThe 9C1 and 9C3 models were based on the LS model, yet offered steel wheels or steel wheels with wheel covers, optional rubber flooring, preparation for police equipment such as sirens, radios, and lighting, special badging, and inoperable rear door handles, windows, and door locks. It also came with the option for a rear vinyl bench seat and front cloth bucket or bench seats, both cloth front and rear seats, or vinyl front and rear seats. It also offered preparation for a criminal cage to be installed between the front and rear seats. The foglamps seen on the LT, LTZ, and SS were optional in 2008 & stayed as an option until 2012 which did away with that option. The 9C1 and 9C3 also had the option of having the spoiler seen on the LT and LTZ until being replaced by the spoiler that is on the SS and other models in 2009. The police sedans received the FlexFuel in 2008 feature to compete against the Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor, which also received a similar feature allowing it to utilize E85. Also updated were the 9C1 and 9C3 trim levels for the Police Package models, which did not have the civilian SS's V8 engine, but used the 3.9 L (237 cu in) V6.<ref name=\"LZG/9specs\"></ref> Police Sedans utilized the SS radiator and cooling system as an upgrade from the standard 3.9 L engine (used in the Impala LTZ). GM did not wish to design a specific radiator and cooling system to equip a low-production V8 police vehicle. Also, the heavy-duty steel wheels were not redesigned, and as such, the Police Sedan used the original center caps or the older style wheel covers from the 8th generation model. The 9C1 and 9C3 were equipped with an external trunk lock tumbler starting in 2008. Neither feature was available for the civilian version of the car. The 9C1 and 9C3 police models had the standard wood grain for the 2006 model year until 2007 which was replaced by an aluminized interior trim. For the 2012 model year both the 9C1 and 9C3 have different end caps where the fog lamps are on the LT and LTZ trims on the front end bumper, received 17-inch wheels with new wheel covers, and the same LFX V6 that powers the civilian Impala. The Caprice PPV succeeded the Impala 9C1 after production ended in 2016. Up to then, the Caprice 9C1 and Impala 9C1 was offered simultaneously.\n\nThe tenth-generation Impala was introduced at the 2012 New York Auto Show for the 2014 model year, with sales and production commencing March 4, 2013. The tenth generation Impala was the first North American sedan in 20 years to earn \"Consumer Reports\" top score, with a score of 95 of a possible 100 points.\n\nThis tenth generation Impala is larger than the previous generation, sharing the extended Epsilon II FWD platform with the Cadillac XTS. The current generation is assembled in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada, alongside the ninth-generation Impala (now renamed the fleet and rental exclusive-only Impala Limited), and at the Detroit/Hamtramck Assembly in the United States. All trim levels are equipped with a six-speed automatic transmission with sport and manual shifting modes.\n\nThe tenth generation models were shipped to dealerships across North America on March 25, 2013, and officially went on sale to the public April 1, 2013. That same day regular production on the Impala (the 2.4L eAssist and 3.6L equipped versions/LT2 and LTZ2 trims only) began at their Oshawa plant, while production at GM's Detroit-Hamtramck plant (the 2.5L equipped versions/LS, LT1 and LTZ1 trims) started production on April 8 and arrived to dealerships in May. The eAssist versions went on sale in the fourth quarter of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, the Impala saw a surge in sales since the tenth-generation's launch, capturing 14.7 percent of the competitive full-size sedan segment, up from 6.9 percent in 2013, making it one of Chevrolet's best selling brands.\n\nThe 2014 Impala came standard with 18 inch wheels (19, and 20 inch offered in higher trims), low profile HID Headlights and LED daytime running lights (On LTZ trim) and offered in three engines; a 2.5 L 4-Cylinder (the first time the Impala will use this type), a 2.4 L 4-Cylinder with hybrid-assist technology, and a 3.6 L V6. The interior came equipped with a 4.2-inch color display featuring Chevrolet MyLink (LT and LTZ trims), HD Radio (all trims) and Pandora Radio (LT and LTZ trims), Active noise cancellation for all 4-cylinder options, while new safety features included 10 Standard Airbags combined with OnStar. Optional features for the 2014 model included \"full-speed-range adaptive cruise control, collision mitigation braking, forward collision alert, lane departure warning, side blind zone alert, rear cross traffic alert, rear camera and rear-park assist.\"\n\nFor 2015, 4G LTE was added to OnStar as an optional feature HD Radio was no longer offered starting with the 2015 model year. In addition, the eAssist version was discontinued due to low sales.\n\nFor the 2016 model year, the Impala went from five to four level trims: LS, LT1, LT2, and LTZ2. A Midnight appearance package was added as an upgrade for the LT and LTZ level trims, which included unique black-pocket wheels and gloss black badges in addition to the standard black paint. Five new colors were introduced: Siren Red Tintcoat, Citron Green Metallic, Heather Gray Metallic, Mosaic Black Metallic, and Green Envy Metallic; six colors were dropped: Autumn Bronze, Red Rock, Crystal Red Tintcoat, Ashen Gray, Silver Topaz, and Champagne Silver. The Jet Black/Brownstone interior color scheme was dropped. 2016 models also came equipped with a new 800 cold-cranking amps battery, replacing the 900 CCA. Wireless charging for devices, front and rear splash guards, as well as lane change alert were added. The CD player was now only offered as standard equipment on the LTZ, but available as an option on other trims as part of the Technology package. 2016 also saw the addition of Apple CarPlay and Android Auto Capability features; only one phone brand at any one time can be used.\n\nIn addition to the \"OnStar/Connections Plan\" being rebranded as the \"Guidance Plan\", the 2016 Impala's option packages were rebranded:\n\n\nThe 2017 model year Impala only saw minor changes, with the top of the line LTZ trim rebrand as the Premier trim and Pepperdust Metallic introduced as a new color option. The LS trim, previously available only with the four-cylinder engine, became available with the V6 engine in addition to the four-cylinder engine.\n\nThe 2018 model year Impala went from four trims to three: LS, LT, and Premier. The LT level trim added Entertainment, Convenience, and Leather packages options, while the Premier trim received the top of the line Convenience package. Keyless starts, rear camera view, and MyLink became standard on all three levels trims, as the LS trim deletes the 4.2 inch display and AM/FM radio features. Daytime running lights became standard on LT and navigation became standard on Premier. During the Third Quarter of 2018 three new colors, Nightfall Gray Metallic, Cajun Red Tintcoat, and Graphite Metallic, will be introduced.\n\nThe 2019 model year Impala will see only minor changes. The jet black interior is added to the LT convenience package, while the accessory level wheel locks becomes standard on all trims. The Graphite Metallic color is discontinued.\n\nThe 2015 Chevrolet Impala Bi-Fuel runs on CNG (compressed natural gas) and gasoline. Unveiled in October 2013 by General Motors CEO Dan Akerson, the Bi-Fuel Impala would be offered to both fleet customers and retail. It is the only full-size CNG vehicle manufactured in North America. The new Impala will join the Honda Civic as a rare factory made CNG car to come straight from a major automaker and available for retail sales.\n\nThe 2015 Chevrolet Impala Bi-Fuel has a 500-mile driving range. It will allow the driver to switch from gasoline to CNG or from CNG to gasoline at the push of a button. The CNG tank is placed in the trunk. The Impala Bi-Fuel was one of the five finalists for the 2015 Green Car of the Year Award during the 2014 Los Angeles Auto Show, but lost to the BMW i3.\n\nThe Impala went on sale in South Korea as an export vehicle for the 2016 model year, marking the first time that Chevrolet had offered an American-built full-size sedan in the Korean market.\n\nThe tenth-generation Chevrolet Impala is available in three trim levels: LS, LT, and LTZ (later Premier). Each trim level includes a generous amount of standard equipment:\n\nLS Includes: 2.5L EcoTec Inline Four-Cylinder (I4) gasoline engine, six-speed automatic transmission, Eighteen-inch (18\") black-painted steel wheels with full plastic wheel covers, 4.2-inch (4.2\") color LCD radio with Bluetooth (2014-2017 models), eight-inch (8.0\") Chevrolet MyLink infotainment system (2018+ models), 100-watt six-speaker audio system, keyless entry, premium cloth seating surfaces (2014-2017 models), premium cloth seating surfaces with leatherette trim (2018+ models), power-adjustable front driver's bucket seat, OnStar with 4G LTE Wi Fi capabilities (2015+ models), leather-wrapped steering wheel, split-folding rear bench seat, color-keyed exterior door handles, and black side mirrors.\n\nLT Adds to LS: Eighteen-inch (18\") aluminum-alloy wheels, eight-inch (8.0\") Chevrolet MyLink infotainment system, security system, remote vehicle start, premium cloth seating surfaces with leatherette trim, dual power-adjustable front bucket seats, color-keyed side mirrors, and wood interior trim.\n\nLTZ (Premier) Adds To LT: 3.6L VVT V6 gasoline engine with FlexFuel capabilities, nineteen-inch (19\") aluminum-alloy wheels, keyless access with push-button start, luxury leather-trimmed seating surfaces, dual heated front and rear seats, heated leather-wrapped steering wheel, exterior LED Daytime Running Lamps (DRL's), rearview backup camera system, chrome-accented color-keyed exterior door handles with touch sensors, and chrome side mirrors.\n\nThere was talk of GM discontinuing the Impala altogether due to declining sales of full-size sedans as well as sedans in general in order to make room for more production of crossover SUVs. GM CEO Mary Barra later said that unlike Ford and FCA, GM had no plans to exit the sedan market, and at the time stated that the Impala will continue in production as a way to fill the void soon to be left by the planned departure of the Ford Taurus in 2019. However, GM reversed course and now plans to idle the Detroit-Hamtramck and Oshawa assembly facilities; the Impala will cease production after the 2019 model year, with the final vehicles built by the end of the fourth quarter of 2019 as General Motors gradually transitions to a 100% self driving vehicle fleet.\n\nIn the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's crash tests, the 2000 to 2005 Impala was given a \"Good\" rating overall for good structural performance and no chance of any significant injury in a crash of its severity, except for maybe a minor lower-left-leg injury, such as a bruise or sprain. The 2006 to present Impala is given a lesser overall \"Acceptable\" score for front impact collisions. and a \"Good\" score for side impacts. Side-curtain airbags are standard for front and rear rows; side torso airbags previously unavailable became standard on all trim levels beginning with the 2009 model year. GM made some minor structural enhancements to the Impala, beginning in December 2009; models produced after that received a \"Good\" in the IIHS frontal offset crash test.\n\nIn September 2009, a local news station's investigative team in Rhode Island discovered that GM's fleet customers who purchased the 2006–2009 Impala were able to order them with the side-curtain airbags deleted for a savings of $175 per vehicle. Because these fleets typically sell off their cars after two to three years of use, many of the Impalas that were built without side-curtain airbags became privately owned cars. \n\nAnother potential safety hazard, affecting Impalas of model years 2007 and 2008, is premature rear tire wear caused by defective rear suspension components. Police vehicles were upgraded to correct this defect and law enforcement agencies were compensated for expenses incurred for tire replacement, but civilian vehicles were not recalled. As a result, Impala owners launched a class action lawsuit in July 2011 against General Motors. In response, the current General Motors leadership claimed about a month later that they are not responsible to repair the defective vehicles manufactured pre-General Motors Bailout. Subsequently, in late September, a new lawsuit, disputing the GM response, was initiated by three of the estimated 400,000 Impala owners. (GM is also facing a similar legal dispute regarding a pre-bankruptcy upgrade to its OnStar system which left thousands of users without service in violation of their paid-up contracts.)\n\nOn April 22, 2014, the NHTSA opened an investigation into 60,000 2014 Chevrolet Impala models over concerns relating to the sedan's emergency braking system. This followed the NHTSA receiving a complaint from a driver who experienced \"inappropriate activation of the emergency braking system,\" adding it \"alleges that the driver assist system inappropriately activated emergency braking bringing the vehicle to a complete stop under what the driver considered to be full braking force.\" The driver also went on to say that he heard three to four beeps from the system while driving the rented vehicle, which had only 2500 miles on it. GM is fully co-operating in the investigation.\n\n\"Motor Trend\" magazine awarded the full-size Chevrolet including the Impala as its 1977 Car of the Year.\n\n\"Automotive Fleet\" and \"Business Fleet\" magazines awarded the Impala the 2006, 2007, and 2008 Fleet Car of the Year.\n\nCanadian Automobile Association (CAA) selected the Impala for its 2006 Pyramid Award for Environmental Initiatives for the launch of its new ethanol-powered E-85 model.\n\nIn 2007, the Impala began to replace the Monte Carlo on the NASCAR stock car racing circuit; more specifically, on all the scheduled racing events where NASCAR has mandated the use of a car with different (and some) new specifications, better known as the Car of Tomorrow.\n\nThe Impala was also used to represent Chevrolet in the Nationwide Series. In 2013, the Impala was replaced by the Camaro in the Nationwide Series.\n\nThe 2012 NASCAR season marked the end of use of the Impala nameplate on stock cars. From 2013 to 2017, Chevrolet drivers began driving the Holden VF Commodore SSV based Chevrolet SS in Sprint Cup until the Chevrolet SS was discontinued after 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "33483364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33483364", "title": "Colorado low", "text": "Colorado low\n\nA Colorado low is a low-pressure area that forms in southeastern Colorado or northeastern New Mexico, typically in the winter. After forming, the system moves across the Great Plains. Colorado lows produce heavy wintry precipitation, and have a general east to northeast movement, impacting regions as far north as Winnipeg and as far east as the Atlantic coast. If upper level conditions are right, the jet stream can push the low farther south, bringing wintry precipitation as far as Texas. When pushed this far south, the system is often referred to as a \"blue norther\". On the more typical track, a Colorado low can be similar to an Alberta clipper. Winter Colorado lows are responsible for a majority of the snow that the Midwest receives; however, summer systems can trigger vast, long-lasting thunderstorms. Spring and early summer Colorado low cyclogenesis can precipitate significant \"syoptically evident\" tornado outbreaks over the Great Plains and Midwest.\n\n"}
{"id": "40527383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40527383", "title": "Conduit hydroelectricity", "text": "Conduit hydroelectricity\n\nConduit hydroelectricity (or conduit hydropower) is a method of using mechanical energy of water as part of the water delivery system through man-made conduits to generate electricity. Generally, the conduits are existing water pipelines such as in public water supply. Some definitions expand the definition of conduits to be existing tunnels, canals, or aqueducts that are used primarily for other water delivery purposes than electricity generation.\n\nHistorically, electricity generation from water pipelines was rare because the water would have been pumped by other engines in the system prior to the intake of water turbines to generate electricity. The energy generated from the turbines would have been offset by the power used in pumping, canceling out the power generation benefit. However, there have been renewed interests to apply this method to recover energy when there is a need to reduce pressure in the water supply system that is normally done through pressure reducing valves. The conduit hydroelectricity generation in this case can be done by replacing the pressure reducing valves with small turbines and electrical generators.\n\n"}
{"id": "30253263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30253263", "title": "Ctenobrycon spilurus", "text": "Ctenobrycon spilurus\n\nCtenobrycon spilurus, the silver tetra, is a species of tropical freshwater fish sometime referred to as the silver dollar tetra. It is a member of the family Characidae in the order Characiformes. The fish is native to Orinoco River basin and coastal river basins of Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana, and can be found in shallow slow moving streams with heavy vegetation. With temperatures that range from . The fish can grow to a maximum length of .\n\nSilver tetras have a silvery-gray color and a round flattened body. But there is a slight olive green cast to some of these fish. There is some black at the base of their caudal fin. Some have a small dark spot near their gill covers. The only relieving bit of color is a glow of red in the rear portion of the anal fin (only in males). The dorsal fin is fairly short. It has a small mouth with enlarged lips.\n\nCommercially breed silver tetra are good for beginners. They are very active in daylight hours. The fish prefers a heavily planted aquarium with dim light. But an aquarium with plastic plants with driftwood will do too. As long as the fish have a place to hide. It is necessary to keep them in a school of 6–8 other silver tetras in a 30-gallon tank. That is long tank. With a pH range of 6.0–7.5. The temperature of the water should be . The fish are peaceful and can be kept with other non-aggressive fish.\n\nFishbase: http://www.fishbase.org/0ary/speciessummary.php?id=10629\n\nIUCN Red list: http://www.iucnredlist.org/apps/redlist/search\n"}
{"id": "5910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5910", "title": "Cyanide", "text": "Cyanide\n\nA cyanide is a chemical compound that contains the group C≡N. This group, known as the cyano group, consists of a carbon atom triple-bonded to a nitrogen atom.\n\nIn inorganic cyanides, the cyanide group is present as the anion CN. For the salts such as sodium cyanide and potassium cyanide, these compounds are highly toxic. Hydrocyanic acid, also known as hydrogen cyanide, or HCN, is a highly volatile liquid that is produced on a large scale industrially. It is obtained by acidification of cyanide salts.\n\nOrganic cyanides are usually called nitriles. In nitriles, the CN group is linked by a covalent bond to carbon. For example, in acetonitrile, the cyanide group is bonded to methyl (CH). Because they do not release cyanide ions, nitriles are generally far less toxic than cyanide salts. Some nitriles, which occur naturally as cyanohydrins, release hydrogen cyanide.\n\nIn IUPAC nomenclature, organic compounds that have a –C≡N functional group are called nitriles. Thus, nitriles are organic compounds.\nAn example of a nitrile is CHCN, acetonitrile, also known as methyl cyanide. Nitriles usually do not release cyanide ions. A functional group with a hydroxyl and cyanide bonded to the same carbon is called cyanohydrin. Unlike nitriles, cyanohydridins do release hydrogen cyanide. In inorganic chemistry, salts containing the C≡N ion are referred to as cyanides.\n\nThe word is derived from the Greek \"kyanos\", meaning dark blue, as a result of its being first obtained by the heating of the pigment known as Prussian blue.\n\nThe cyanide ion is isoelectronic with carbon monoxide and with molecular nitrogen.\n\nCyanides are produced by certain bacteria, fungi, and algae and are found in a number of plants. Cyanides are found in substantial amounts in certain seeds and fruit stones, e.g., those of bitter almonds, apricots, apples, and peaches. In plants, cyanides are usually bound to sugar molecules in the form of cyanogenic glycosides and defend the plant against herbivores. Cassava roots (also called manioc), an important potato-like food grown in tropical countries (and the base from which tapioca is made), also contain cyanogenic glycosides.\n\nThe Madagascar bamboo \"Cathariostachys madagascariensis\" produces cyanide as a deterrent to grazing. In response, the golden bamboo lemur, which eats the bamboo, has developed a high tolerance to cyanide.\n\nThe cyanide radical CN· has been identified in interstellar space. The cyanide radical (called cyanogen) is used to measure the temperature of interstellar gas clouds.\n\nHydrogen cyanide is produced by the combustion or pyrolysis of certain materials under oxygen-deficient conditions. For example, it can be detected in the exhaust of internal combustion engines and tobacco smoke. Certain plastics, especially those derived from acrylonitrile, release hydrogen cyanide when heated or burnt.\n\nThe cyanide anion is a ligand for many transition metals. The high affinities of metals for this anion can be attributed to its negative charge, compactness, and ability to engage in π-bonding. Well-known complexes include:\n\nAmong the most important cyanide coordination compounds are the octahedrally coordinated compounds potassium ferrocyanide and the pigment Prussian blue, which are both essentially nontoxic due to the tight binding of the cyanides to a central iron atom. \nPrussian blue was first accidentally made around 1706, by heating substances containing iron and carbon and nitrogen, and other cyanides made subsequently (and named after it). Among its many uses, Prussian blue gives the blue color to blueprints, bluing, and cyanotypes.\n\nThe enzymes called hydrogenases contain cyanide ligands attached to iron in their active sites. The biosynthesis of cyanide in the [NiFe]-hydrogenases proceeds from carbamoyl phosphate, which converts to cysteinyl thiocyanate, the CN donor.\n\nBecause of the cyanide anion's high nucleophilicity, cyano groups are readily introduced into organic molecules by displacement of a halide group (e.g., the chloride on methyl chloride). In general, organic cyanides are called nitriles. Thus, CHCN can be called methyl cyanide but more commonly is referred to as acetonitrile. In organic synthesis, cyanide is a C-1 synthon; i.e., it can be used to lengthen a carbon chain by one, while retaining the ability to be functionalized.\n\nThe principal process used to manufacture cyanides is the Andrussow process in which gaseous hydrogen cyanide is produced from methane and ammonia in the presence of oxygen and a platinum catalyst.\n\nGaseous hydrogen cyanide may be dissolved in aqueous sodium hydroxide solution to produce sodium cyanide.\n\nMany cyanides are highly toxic. The cyanide anion is an inhibitor of the enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (also known as aa) in the fourth complex of the electron transport chain (found in the membrane of the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells). It attaches to the iron within this protein. The binding of cyanide to this enzyme prevents transport of electrons from cytochrome c to oxygen. As a result, the electron transport chain is disrupted, meaning that the cell can no longer aerobically produce ATP for energy. Tissues that depend highly on aerobic respiration, such as the central nervous system and the heart, are particularly affected. This is an example of histotoxic hypoxia.\n\nThe most hazardous compound is hydrogen cyanide, which is a gas and kills by inhalation. For this reason, an air respirator supplied by an external oxygen source must be worn when working with hydrogen cyanide. Hydrogen cyanide is produced by adding acid to a solution containing a cyanide salt. Alkaline solutions of cyanide are safer to use because they do not evolve hydrogen cyanide gas. Hydrogen cyanide may be produced in the combustion of polyurethanes; for this reason, polyurethanes are not recommended for use in domestic and aircraft furniture. Oral ingestion of a small quantity of solid cyanide or a cyanide solution as little as 200 mg, or exposure to airborne cyanide of 270 ppm, is sufficient to cause death within minutes.\n\nOrganic nitriles do not readily release cyanide ions, and so have low toxicities. By contrast, compounds such as trimethylsilyl cyanide (CH)SiCN readily release HCN or the cyanide ion upon contact with water.\n\nHydroxocobalamin reacts with cyanide to form cyanocobalamin, which can be safely eliminated by the kidneys. This method has the advantage of avoiding the formation of methemoglobin (see below). This antidote kit is sold under the brand name Cyanokit and was approved by the U.S. FDA in 2006.\n\nAn older cyanide antidote kit included administration of three substances: amyl nitrite pearls (administered by inhalation), sodium nitrite, and sodium thiosulfate. The goal of the antidote was to generate a large pool of ferric iron (Fe) to compete for cyanide with cytochrome a (so that cyanide will bind to the antidote rather than the enzyme). The nitrites oxidize hemoglobin to methemoglobin, which competes with cytochrome oxidase for the cyanide ion. Cyanmethemoglobin is formed and the cytochrome oxidase enzyme is restored. The major mechanism to remove the cyanide from the body is by enzymatic conversion to thiocyanate by the mitochondrial enzyme rhodanese. Thiocyanate is a relatively non-toxic molecule and is excreted by the kidneys. To accelerate this detoxification, sodium thiosulfate is administered to provide a sulfur donor for rhodanese, needed in order to produce thiocyanate.\n\nMinimum risk levels (MRLs) may not protect for delayed health effects or health effects acquired following repeated sublethal exposure, such as hypersensitivity, asthma, or bronchitis. MRLs may be revised after sufficient data accumulates.\n\nCyanide is mainly produced for the mining of gold and silver: It helps dissolve these metals and their ores. In the \"cyanide process\", finely ground high-grade ore is mixed with the cyanide (concentration of about two kilogram NaCN per tonne); low-grade ores are stacked into heaps and sprayed with a cyanide solution (concentration of about one kilogram NaCN per ton). The precious metals are complexed by the cyanide anions to form soluble derivatives, e.g., [Au(CN)] and [Ag(CN)].\n\nSilver is less \"noble\" than gold and often occurs as the sulfide, in which case redox is not invoked (no O is required). Instead, a displacement reaction occurs:\nThe \"pregnant liquor\" containing these ions is separated from the solids, which are discarded to a tailing pond or spent heap, the recoverable gold having been removed. The metal is recovered from the \"pregnant solution\" by reduction with zinc dust or by adsorption onto activated carbon. This process can result in environmental and health problems. A number of environmental disasters have followed the overflow of tailing ponds at gold mines. Cyanide contamination of waterways has resulting in numerous cases of human and aquatic species mortality.\n\nAqueous cyanide is hydrolyzed rapidly, especially in sunlight. It can mobilize some heavy metals such as mercury if present. Gold can also be associated with arsenopyrite (FeAsS), which is similar to iron pyrite (fool's gold), wherein half of the sulfur atoms are replaced by arsenic. Gold-containing arsenopyrite ores are similarly reactive toward inorganic cyanide.\n\nCyanide is also used in electroplating, where it stabilizes metal ions in the electrolyte solution prior to their deposition.\n\nSome nitriles are produced on a large scale, e.g., adiponitrile is a precursor to nylon. Such compounds are often generated by combining hydrogen cyanide and alkenes, i.e., hydrocyanation:\nRCH=CH + HCN → RCH(CN)CH. Metal catalysts are required for such reactions.\n\nThe cyanide compound sodium nitroprusside is used mainly in clinical chemistry to measure urine ketone bodies mainly as a follow-up to diabetic patients. On occasion, it is used in emergency medical situations to produce a rapid decrease in blood pressure in humans; it is also used as a vasodilator in vascular research. The cobalt in artificial vitamin B contains a cyanide ligand as an artifact of the purification process; this must be removed by the body before the vitamin molecule can be activated for biochemical use. During World War I, a copper cyanide compound was briefly used by Japanese physicians for the treatment of tuberculosis and leprosy.\n\nCyanides are illegally used to capture live fish near coral reefs for the aquarium and seafood markets. The practice is controversial, dangerous, and damaging but is driven by the lucrative exotic fish market.\n\nPoachers in Africa have been known to use cyanide to poison waterholes, to kill elephants for their ivory.\n\nM44 cyanide devices are used in the United States to kill coyotes and other canids. Cyanide is also used for pest control in New Zealand, particularly for possums, an introduced marsupial that threatens the conservation of native species and spreads tuberculosis amongst cattle. Possums can become bait shy but the use of pellets containing the cyanide reduces bait shyness. Cyanide has been known to kill native birds, including the endangered kiwi. Cyanide is also effective for controlling the dama wallaby, another introduced marsupial pest in New Zealand. A licence is required to store, handle and use cyanide in New Zealand.\n\nPotassium ferrocyanide is used to achieve a blue color on cast bronze sculptures during the final finishing stage of the sculpture. On its own, it will produce a very dark shade of blue and is often mixed with other chemicals to achieve the desired tint and hue. It is applied using a torch and paint brush while wearing the standard safety equipment used for any patina application: rubber gloves, safety glasses, and a respirator. The actual amount of cyanide in the mixture varies according to the recipes used by each foundry.\n\nCyanide is also used in jewelry-making and certain kinds of photography such as sepia toning.\n\nCyanides are used as insecticides for fumigating ships. Cyanide salts are used for killing ants, and have in some places been used as rat poison (the less toxic poison arsenic is more common).\n\nAlthough usually thought to be toxic, cyanide and cyanohydrins have been demonstrated to increase germination in various plant species.\n\nDeliberate cyanide poisoning of humans has occurred many times throughout history.\nFor notable cyanide deaths, see Cyanide poisoning: History.\n\nMost significantly, hydrogen cyanide released from pellets of Zyklon-B was used extensively in the systematic mass murders of the Holocaust, especially in extermination camps. Poisoning by hydrogen cyanide gas within a gas chamber (as a salt of hydrocyanic acid is dropped into a strong acid, usually sulfuric acid) is one method of executing a condemned prisoner as the condemned prisoner eventually breathes the lethal fumes.\n\nDue to the high stability of their complexation with iron, ferrocyanides (Sodium ferrocyanide E535, Potassium ferrocyanide E536, and Calcium ferrocyanide E538) do not decompose to lethal levels in the human body and are used in the food industry as, e.g., an anticaking agent in table salt.\n\nIron(II) sulfate is added to a solution suspected of containing cyanide, such as the filtrate from the sodium fusion test. The resulting mixture is acidified with mineral acid. The formation of Prussian blue is a positive result for cyanide.\n\nA solution of \"para\"-benzoquinone in DMSO reacts with inorganic cyanide to form a cyanophenol, which is fluorescent. Illumination with a UV light gives a green/blue glow if the test is positive.\n\nAs used by fumigators to detect hydrogen cyanide, copper(II) salt and an aromatic amine such as benzidine is added to the sample; as an alternative to benzidine an alternative amine di-(4,4-\"bis\"-dimethylaminophenyl) methane can be used. A positive test gives a blue color. Copper(I) cyanide is poorly soluble. By sequestering the copper(I) the copper(II) is rendered a stronger oxidant. The copper, in a cyanide facilitated oxidation, converts the amine into a colored compound. The Nernst equation explains this process. Another good example of such chemistry is the way in which the saturated calomel reference electrode (SCE) works. The copper, in a cyanide-facilitated oxidation, converts the amine into a colored compound.\n\nA sample containing inorganic cyanide is purged with air from a boiling acid solution into a basic absorber solution. The cyanide salt absorbed in the basic solution is buffered at pH 4.5 and then reacted with chlorine to form cyanogen chloride. The cyanogen chloride formed couples pyridine with barbituric acid to form a strongly colored red dye that is proportional to the cyanide concentration. This colorimetric method following distillation is the basis for most regulatory methods (for instance EPA 335.4) used to analyze cyanide in water, wastewater, and contaminated soils. Distillation followed by colorimetric methods, however, have been found to be prone to interferences from thiocyanate, nitrate, thiosulfate, sulfite, and sulfide that can result in both positive and negative bias. It has been recommended by the USEPA (MUR March 12, 2007) that samples containing these compounds be analyzed by Gas-Diffusion Flow Injection Analysis—Amperometry.\n\nA solution of aquacyano-corrinoids, such as cobalamin or cobinamide, reacts with free cyanide in an aqueous sample. The binding of cyanide to the corrinoid cobalt center leads to a color change from orange to violet, allowing for semi-quantification by naked-eye. Precise quantification of the cyanide content is feasible by UV-vis spectroscopy. Absorption of the corrinoid on a solid phase, allows detection of cyanide even in colored samples, rendering this method appropriate for the analysis of cyanide in water, wastewater, blood, and food. Furthermore, this technology is non-toxic and considerably less prone to interference than the pyridine-barbituric acid colorimetry method.\n\nInstead of distilling, the sample is injected into an acidic stream where the HCN formed is passed under a hydrophobic gas diffusion membrane that selectively allows only HCN to pass through. The HCN that passes through the membrane is absorbed into a basic carrier solution that transports the CN to an amperometric detector that accurately measures cyanide concentration with high sensitivity. Sample pretreatment determined by acid reagents, ligands, or preliminary UV irradiation allow cyanide speciation of free cyanide, available cyanide, and total cyanide respectively. The relative simplicity of these flow injection analysis methods limit the interference experienced by the high heat of distillation and also prove to be cost effective since time consuming distillations are not required.\n\n\nSafety data (French):\n\n"}
{"id": "17899865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17899865", "title": "De-alerting", "text": "De-alerting\n\nDe-alerting introduces some reversible physical change(s) to nuclear weapons or weapon systems in order to lengthen the time required to use nuclear weapons in combat. Because thousands of strategic nuclear warheads mounted on ballistic missiles remain on high-alert, launch-ready status, capable of being launched in only a few minutes, de-alerting has been proposed as a means to reduce likelihood that these forces will be used deliberately or accidentally.\n\nDe-alerting can be used to rapidly implement existing nuclear arms control agreements ahead of schedule. Arms control agreements create a timetable to introduce irreversible changes to weapon systems (designed to reduce or eliminate the total numbers of these systems), but these changes generally occur incrementally over the course of a number of years. De-alerting can quickly implement the entire range of negotiated reductions in a reversible fashion (which over time are then made irreversible), thereby bringing the benefits of the negotiated reductions into being much more rapidly.\n\nIt has been proposed that de-alerted nuclear weapon systems be classified into at least two categories or stages. Stage I de-alerted weapons would require 24 hours to bring the weapon system back to high-alert status, and would preclude Launch-on-Warning capability and policy, thereby making impossible an accidental nuclear war caused by a false warning generated by early warning systems.\n\n\nDe-alerting may require negotiations and verification procedures in order to accomplish symmetrical force reductions on both sides. However, de-alerting can occur rapidly if sufficient political will exists, e.g., in 1991, the Bush and Gorbachev Presidential Nuclear Initiatives resulted in the de-alerting of US and Soviet strategic bombers and the storage of their nuclear weapons, as well as the early retirement of 503 ICBMs, including 134 with multiple warheads scheduled for elimination under START I. The process eventually led to a reduction of 17,000 deployed tactical nuclear weapons, the deepest reductions in nuclear arsenals to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "52044791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52044791", "title": "Edge tessellation", "text": "Edge tessellation\n\nA tessellation, also known as a tiling, is a set of shapes that must cover the entire plane without the shapes overlapping. This repeating shape must cover every part of the plane without overlapping. An edge tessellation, is a special type of tessellation that is created by flipping or reflecting the shape over an edge. This can be also be called \"folding\" tessellation.\n\nIn the Euclidean plane there is a limited number of ways to create an edge tessellation. This is defined by the type of triangle and the rotations of the given triangles. The triangles that can be used are equilateral, isosceles, right triangles, and in particular 60°-right triangles. If an edge tessellation is not any of the triangles listed, then it can also be a generated by four non-obtuse polygons such as a rectangle, 120-rhombus, 60-90-120 kite, and a regular hexagon.\n\nTessellations can happen not only in the traditional Euclidean plane, but also in various non-Euclidean planes.\n\nHyperbolic geometry is defined by axioms and postulates. The Hyperbolic Parallel Postulate and the Asymptotically Parallel Postulates help define edge tessellations in hyperbolic geometry.\nThe Hyperbolic Parallel Postulate states that given a line with a point parallel to the given line there are infinitely many lines connecting the point to the line. There are two types of parallelism that exists in hyperbolic geometry: asymptotically parallel and ultra/hyper parallel.\n\nThe Asymptotically Parallel Postulate states that when one line moves towards zero and in the opposite direction, the other line is unbounded. This allows us to see that eventually it will become impossible to continue folding edge tessellations, as we run out of possible areas to fold.\n\nUltra-parallel (hyper-parallel) – These lines have a common perpendicular with a given distance separating them that is considered unbounded as they move away from each other.\n\nTo fold in spherical geometry, we must assume that two points do not make a line, and that there are no parallel lines. If we assume that, then we can fold toward the point of intersection. The area in spherical geometry can be related to the area in hyperbolic geometry.\n\nStamp folding puzzles were created based on the edge tessellation concept. The constraints of folding puzzles is to fold designated shapes within the given confines of the paper. When folding the paper, there cannot be any overlaps and the shape folded must not allow gaps between the folds. It is allowed to tuck packets of paper between other leaves of the paper.\n\n1. A polygon that is created by edge tessellations is of one of the following types:\n2. The edge tessellations that work well stamp folding are the four non-obtuse polygons indicated in Theorem 1.\n"}
{"id": "2834719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2834719", "title": "Features, events, and processes", "text": "Features, events, and processes\n\nFeatures, Events, and Processes (FEP) are terms used in the field of radioactive waste management to define relevant scenarios for safety assessment studies. For a radioactive waste repository, \"features\" would include the characteristics of the site, such as the type of soil or geological formation the repository is to be built on or under. \"Events\" would include things that may or will occur in the future, like, \"e.g.\", glaciations, droughts, earthquakes, or formation of faults. \"Processes\" are things that are ongoing, such as the erosion or subsidence of the landform where the site is located on, or near.\n\nSeveral catalogues of FEP's are publicly available, a.o., this one elaborated for the NEA Clay Club dealing with the disposal of radioactive waste in deep clay formations,\nand those compiled for deep crystalline rocks (granite) by , SKB, the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Company.\n\nFree PDF reports are accessible from here: \n"}
{"id": "2111171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2111171", "title": "Fiber cement siding", "text": "Fiber cement siding\n\nFiber cement siding (\"fibre cement cladding\" in the UK and \"fibro\" in Australia) is a building material used to cover the exterior of a building in both commercial and domestic applications. Fiber cement is a composite material made of cement reinforced with cellulose fibers. Originally, asbestos was used as the reinforcing material but, due to safety concerns, that was replaced by cellulose in the 1980s. Fiber cement board may come pre-painted or pre-stained or can be done so after its installation.\n\nFiber cement siding has several benefits since it is resistant to termites, does not rot, is impact resistant, and has fireproof properties.\n\nIn appearance fiber cement siding most often consists of overlapping horizontal boards, imitating wooden siding, clapboard and imitation shingles. Fiber cement siding is also manufactured in a sheet form and is used not only as cladding but is also commonly used as a soffit / eave lining and as a tile underlays on decks and in bathrooms. Fiber cement siding is not only used as an exterior siding, it can also be utilized as a substitute for timber fascias and bargeboards in high fire areas.\n\nSheet sizes vary slightly from manufacturer to manufacturer but generally they range between 2400 – 3000 mm in length and 900 –1200mm in width (600 & 450 mm increments). This manufactured size minimizes on-site wastage as residential floor, wall and roof structures lay structural members at 450 or 600mm centres.\n\nWhen used as siding boards, widths between 130mm and 300mm (5.25 inch to 12 inch) are available. Fiber cement thicknesses vary between 4.5-18mm and also vary in density – the lower density resulting in a fibrous rough edge when cut and the higher density having a cleaner smoother edge when cut.\n\nThermal resistance and sound transmission can vary greatly between fiber cement products. Fiber cement sheet products rate poorly in thermal resistance and sound transmission and separate wall insulation is highly recommended. Generally the thicker and denser the product the better resistance it will have to temperature and sound transmission.\n\nFiber cement cladding is a very heavy product and requires two people to carry the uncut sheets. Thin fiber cement cladding is fragile before installation and must be handled carefully because it is prone to chipping and breakage if improperly handled. Once the product is cut it may again require two people to install – one to hold the sheet flush against studwork and the other to nail the product in place. \n\nCutting fiber cement sheeting:\nSheeting can be cut to size in three ways.\n\nWhen hanging fiber cement sheets, an approximately gap is required between end-joints (cladding seams), later to be filled with caulking made for fiber cement siding. Metal step flashing is required behind overlapping seams to prevent sheathing damage from water. Hot-dipped galvanized roofing nails are used to secure the sheets.\n\nSome caution must be exercised to properly ventilate areas where fiber cement siding (FCS) is being cut; long-term exposure to the silica dust generated during the installation process can cause silicosis.\n\nFiber cement cladding can be painted or stained before or after installation. For areas of exposure, weatherproof paint must be used. Once the product is fixed the joints are usually covered with timber battens and the entire wall surface is painted.\n\nEarly fiber cement panels used asbestos fibers to add strength. Ludwig Hatschek patented asbestos-reinforced fiber cement in Austria in 1901 and named it \"Eternit\", based on the Latin term \"aeternitas\", meaning everlasting. In 1903, Schweizerische Eternit-Werke AG began fabricating the material in the city of Niederurnen in Switzerland. Cellulose-reinforced fiber cement products were introduced 1980s as a safe replacement for the very widely-used asbestos cement products manufactured before that time.\n\nThe external cladding products require very little maintenance once installed and painted. The thicker/denser fiber cement products have excellent impact resistance but the thinner less dense products need to be protected from impact. Compared to wooden siding, fiber cement is not susceptible to termites or rot.\n\nFiber cement siding using baseboard materials that have been classified, by accredited laboratories, as Category A according to BS EN 12467: 2004 Fiber-cement flat sheets - Product specification and test methods are sidings which are intended for applications where they may be subject to heat, high moisture and severe frost.\n\nFiber cement cladding is a non-combustible material which is widely used in high bushfire prone areas throughout Australia.\n\nWhile the best possible reaction to Fire Classifications are A1 (construction applications) and A1Fl (flooring applications) respectively, both of which mean \"non-combustible\" according to European standard EN 13501-1: 2007, as classified by a notified laboratory in Europe, some fiber cement boards only come with Fire Classification of A2 (limited combustibility) or even lower classifications, if they are tested at all.\n\nAs mentioned previously, long-term exposure to silica dust generated by cutting fiber cement siding during installation can lead to silicosis and other lung diseases among workers. Researchers at the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) confirmed these findings, showing that many of the silica dust particles are in the respirable fraction, able to penetrate the deepest parts of the lung. Laboratory tests performed by cutting fiber cement siding within an isolated chamber showed that by connecting a regular shop vacuum to a circular saw, exposures to silica dust produced by the cutting can be reduced by 80-90%. Later, NIOSH completed four field surveys where construction workers cut fiber cement siding. Results showed that exposure to silica dust was controlled below the NIOSH Recommended Exposure Limit (REL) for respirable crystalline silica (0.05 mg/m3) when a regular shop vacuum was used.\n\nCompetitors to fiber cement cladding include products made from vinyl, polyvinyl chloride, wood composite products (such as hardboard and Masonite) and aluminum siding\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55288823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55288823", "title": "Font Roja Natural Park", "text": "Font Roja Natural Park\n\nThe Font Roja Natural Park (, ) is a natural park situated in Alcoy, in the autonomous community of Valencia, Spain.\n\nThe Font Roja natural park was declared on April 13, 1987 natural park by the Generalitat Valenciana. It is located in the comarca of Alcoià, in the North of the province of Alicante, between the towns of Alcoy and Ibi. This natural park is one of the best preserved natural areas of the Valencian Community. The protected natural area covers 2.298 hectares and comprises mountainous alignment of El Alto de San Antonio (L'Alt de Sant Antoni), El Carrascar of the Font Roja (\"El Carrascar de la Font Roja\") and \"La Teixereta\". The summit of the \"Sierra del Menejador\", with 1,356 m of height, is the highest elevation of the park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11420864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11420864", "title": "Gas-cooled reactor", "text": "Gas-cooled reactor\n\nA gas-cooled reactor (GCR) is a nuclear reactor that uses graphite as a neutron moderator and carbon dioxide as coolant. Although there are many other types of reactor cooled by gas, the terms \"GCR\" and to a lesser extent \"gas cooled reactor\" are particularly used to refer to this type of reactor.\n\nThe GCR was able to use natural uranium as fuel, enabling the countries that developed them to fabricate their own fuel without relying on other countries for supplies of enriched uranium, which was at the time of their development in the 1950s only available from the United States or the Soviet Union.\n\nThere were two main types of generation I GCR:\n\n\nThe main difference between these two types is in the fuel cladding material. Both types were mainly constructed in their countries of origin, with a few export sales : two Magnox plants to Italy and Japan, and one UNGG to Spain. More recently, GCRs based on the declassified drawings of the early Magnox reactors have been constructed by North Korea at the Yongbyon Nuclear Scientific Research Center.\n\nBoth types used fuel cladding materials that were unsuitable for medium term storage under water, making reprocessing an essential part of the nuclear fuel cycle. Both types were, in their countries of origin, also designed and used to produce weapons-grade plutonium, but at the cost of major interruption to their use for power generation despite the provision of online refuelling.\n\nIn the UK, the Magnox was replaced by the advanced gas-cooled reactor (AGR), an improved Generation II gas cooled reactor. In France, the UNGG was replaced by the pressurized water reactor (PWR).\n\nGas-cooled reactor types include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9818747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9818747", "title": "Goshen stone", "text": "Goshen stone\n\nGoshen stone is an unusual variably colored variety of mica schist found mostly in New England region of the United States. It is quarried and sold as a landscaping stone. The stone sells for approximately 100 US dollars a ton. \n\nGoshen stone appeared in US national headlines in 2007 when Matt White, a former Major League Baseball pitcher then pitching in the minors, discovered approximately 2 billion US dollars' worth of the stone on property near Cummington, Massachusetts he had recently purchased. \n"}
{"id": "15547210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15547210", "title": "Gyrokinetic ElectroMagnetic", "text": "Gyrokinetic ElectroMagnetic\n\nGEM is short for Gyrokinetic ElectroMagnetic. GEM is a gyrokinetic plasma turbulence simulation that uses the formula_1 particle-in-cell method. It is used to study waves, instabilities and nonlinear behavior of tokamak fusion plasmas. Information about GEM can be found at the GEM web page.\n\nThere are two versions of GEM, one is a flux-tube version and the other one is a global general geometry\nversion. Both versions of GEM use a field-aligned coordinate system. Ions are treated kinetically, but averaged over their gyro-obits and electrons are treated as drift-kinetic.\n\nGEM solves the electromagnetic gyrokinetic equations which are the appropriate equations for well magnetized plasmas. The plasma is treated statistically as a kinetic distribution function. The distribution function depends on the three-dimensional position, the energy and magnetic moment. The time evolution of the distribution function is described by gyrokinetic theory which simply averages the Vlasov-Maxwell system of equations over the fast gyromotion associated with particles exhibiting cyclotron motion about the magnetic field lines. This eliminates fast time scales associated with the gyromotion and reduces the dimensionality of the problem from six down to five.\n\nGEM uses the delta-f particle-in-cell (PIC) plasma simulation method. An expansion about an adiabatic response is made for electrons to overcome the limit of small time step, which is caused by the fast motion of electrons. GEM uses a novel electromagnetic algorithm allowing direct numerical simulation of the electromagnetic problem at high plasma pressures. GEM uses a two-dimensional domain decomposition (see domain decomposition method) of the grid and particles to obtain good performance on massively parallel computers. A Monte Carlo method is used to model small angle Coulomb collisions.\n\nGEM is used to study nonlinear physics associated with tokamak plasma turbulence and transport. Tokamak turbulence driven by ion-temperature-gradient modes, electron-temperature gradient modes, trapped electron modes and micro-tearing modes has been investigated using GEM. It is also being used to look at energetic particle driven magnetohydrodynamic (see magnetohydrodynamics) eigenmodes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4729841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4729841", "title": "Gyroradius", "text": "Gyroradius\n\nThe gyroradius (also known as radius of gyration, Larmor radius or cyclotron radius) is the radius of the circular motion of a charged particle in the presence of a uniform magnetic field. In SI units, the gyroradius is given by\nwhere formula_2 is the mass of the particle, formula_3 is the component of the velocity perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic field, formula_4 is the electric charge of the particle, and formula_5 is the strength of the magnetic field.\n\nThe angular frequency of this circular motion is known as the gyrofrequency, or cyclotron frequency, and can be expressed as\nin units of radians/second.\n\nIt is often useful to give the gyrofrequency a sign with the definition\nor express it in units of Hertz with\nFor electrons, this frequency can be reduced to\n\nIn cgs units, the gyroradius is given by\nand the gyrofrequency is\nwhere formula_12 is the speed of light in vacuum.\n\nFor relativistic particles the Lorentz factor must be included:\nFor calculations in accelerator and astroparticle physics, the formula for the gyroradius can be rearranged to give\nwhere formula_12 is the speed of light, formula_16 is the unit of Giga-electronVolts, and formula_17 is the elementary charge.\n\nIf the charged particle is moving, then it will experience a Lorentz force given by\nwhere formula_19 is the velocity vector and formula_20 is the magnetic field vector.\n\nNotice that the direction of the force is given by the cross product of the velocity and magnetic field. Thus, the Lorentz force will always act perpendicular to the direction of motion, causing the particle to gyrate, or move in a circle. The radius of this circle, formula_21, can be determined by equating the magnitude of the Lorentz force to the centripetal force as\nRearranging, the gyroradius can be expressed as\nThus, the gyroradius is directly proportional to the particle mass and perpendicular velocity, while it is inversely proportional to the particle electric charge and the magnetic field strength. The time it takes the particle to complete one revolution, called the period, can be calculated to be\nSince the period is the reciprocal of the frequency we have found\nand therefore\n\n"}
{"id": "21672890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21672890", "title": "Hartsville Nuclear Plant", "text": "Hartsville Nuclear Plant\n\nThe Hartsville Nuclear Plant is a canceled nuclear power plant project located near Hartsville, Tennessee. To be built and operated by the Tennessee Valley Authority, it was to have four General Electric boiling water reactors.\n\nLand along the Cumberland River was acquired by TVA in the late 1960s for construction of the plant which was to accommodate the electricity demand for the 1980s. Construction began in 1975. The Plant B reactors were canceled on March 22, 1983 and the Plant A reactors were canceled on August 29, 1984.\n\nThere are currently plans to turn of the property into an industrial park similar to what became of the Satsop Nuclear Plant in Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "56999820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56999820", "title": "Hemp paper", "text": "Hemp paper\n\nHemp paper means paper varieties consisting exclusively or to a large extent from pulp obtained from fibers of industrial hemp. The products are mainly specialty papers such as cigarette paper, banknotes and technical filter papers. Compared to wood pulp, hemp pulp offers a four to five times longer fibre, a significantly lower lignin fraction as well as a higher tear resistance and tensile strength. However, production costs are about four times higher than for paper from wood, so hemp paper could not be used for mass applications as printing, writing and packaging paper.\n\nThe first identified coarse paper, made from hemp, dates to the early Western Han Dynasty, 200 years before the nominal invention of papermaking by Cai Lun, who improved and standardized paper production using a range of inexpensive materials, including hemp ends, around 2000 years ago. Recycled hemp clothing, rags, and fishing nets were used as inputs for paper production. By the sixth century AD, the papermaking process spread to Korea, where cannabis had been used previously for thousands of years, and Japan, where cannabis had been used for 10,000 years. \n\nHemp paper only reached Europe in the 13th century via the Middle East. In Germany it has been proven for the first time in the 14th century. It was not until the 19th century that methods were established for the production of paper from wood pulp, which were cheaper than the hemp paper production and, above all, repressed in the area of writing and printing papers. Notably, the first copies of the Bible were made of hemp paper.\n\nThe Saint Petersburg, Russia, paper mill of Goznak opened in 1818. It used hemp as its main input material. Paper from the mill was used in the printing of \"bank notes, stamped paper, credit bills, postal stamps, bonds, stocks, and other watermarked paper.\"\n\nIn 1916, U.S. Department of Agriculture chief scientists Lyster Hoxie Dewey and Jason L. Merrill created paper made from hemp pulp and concluded that paper from hemp hurds was \"favorable in comparison with those used with pulp wood.\" The chemical composition of hemp hurds is similar to that of wood, making hemp a good choice as a raw material for manufacturing paper. Modern research has not confirmed the positive finding about hemp hurds from 1916. A later book about hemp and other fibers by the same L.H. Dewey(1943) have no words about hemp as a raw material for production of paper.\nDried hemp has about 57% cellulose (the principal ingredient in paper), compared to about 40-50% in wood. Hemp also has the advantage of a lower lignin content: hemp contains only 5-24% lignin against the 20-35% found in wood. This lignin must be removed chemically and wood requires more use of chemicals in the process. The actual production of hemp fiber in the U.S continued to decline until 1933 to around 500 tons/year. Between 1934 and 1935, the cultivation of hemp began to increase, but still at a very low level and with no significant increase of paper from hemp.\n\nAfter the Second World War, industrial hemp was only grown on micro-plots. Although the industrial hemp bred in the 1950s and 1960s is harmless because of the almost complete absence of THC, cultivation has been banned in many countries in recent decades. In Germany, growing hemp was completely prohibited between 1982 and 1995 by the \"Betäubungsmittelgesetz\" (Narcotics Act, the national controlled-substances law) in order to prevent the illegal use of cannabis as a narcotic. Especially in France, the varieties of hemp used for the manufacture of cigarette paper were still in use and grown.\n\nBefore the industrialisation of paper production the most common fibre source was recycled fibres from used textiles, called rags. The rags were from hemp, linen and cotton. A process for removing printing inks from recycled paper was invented by German jurist Justus Claproth in 1774. Today this method is called deinking. It was not until the introduction of wood pulp in 1843 that paper production was not dependent on recycled materials from ragpickers.\n\nCurrently there is a small niche market for hemp pulp, for example as cigarette paper. Hemp fiber is mixed with fiber from other sources than hemp. In 1994 there was no significant production of 100% true hemp paper. World hemp pulp production was believed to be around 120,000 tons per year in 1991 which was about 0.05% of the world's annual pulp production volume. The total world production of hemp fiber had in 2003 declined to about 60,000 from 80,000 tons. This can be compared to a typical pulp mill for wood fiber, which is never smaller than 250,000 tons per annum. The cost of hemp pulp is approximately six times that of wood pulp, mostly because of the small size and outdated equipment of the few hemp processing plants in the Western world, and because hemp is harvested once a year (during August) and needs to be stored to feed the mill the whole year through. This storage requires a lot of (mostly manual) handling of the bulky stalk bundles. Another issue is that the entire hemp plant cannot be economically prepared for paper production. While the wood products industry uses nearly 100% of the fiber from harvested trees, only about 25% of the dried hemp stem—the bark, called bast—contains the long, strong fibers desirable for paper production. All this accounts for a high raw material cost. Hemp pulp is bleached with hydrogen peroxide, a process today also commonly used for wood pulp.\n\nAround the year 2000, the production quantity of flax and hemp pulp total 25000-30000 tons per year, having been produced from approximately 37000-45000 tonnes fibers. Up to 80% of the produced pulp is used for specialty papers (including 95% of cigarette paper). Only about 20% hemp fiber input goes into the standard pulp area and are here mostly in lower quality (untreated oakum high shive content added) wood pulps. With hemp pulp alone, the proportion of specialty papers probably at about 99%. The market is considered saturated with little or no growth in this area.\n\nThe use of hemp fiber for paper production represented 90% of the (legal) use of hemp in Europe at the end of the 1990s, with the release of the cultivation of industrial hemp in other parts of Europe in recent years, the share of the increase in other types of use (textiles, natural fiber reinforced plastics) is currently around 70 to 80% and is still the most important hemp product line in Europe. Today, hemp is used for cigarette paper among other things in Spain and in United Kingdom.\n\nAround the year 2000, the production volume for flax and hemp pulp totaled 25,000 to 30,000 tonnes per year, which was produced from about 37,000 to 45,000 tonnes of fibers. Up to 80% of the pulp produced in this way is used for special papers (including 95% cigarette paper), only about 20% go into the standard pulp area and are here in mostly lower quality (unpurified tow with high hurd content) wood pulp. In the case of hemp pulp alone, the proportion of specialty papers is probably around 99%. The market is considered to be saturated, so no or only low growth in this area is to be expected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3310426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3310426", "title": "Impact ionization", "text": "Impact ionization\n\nImpact ionization is the process in a material by which one energetic charge carrier can lose energy by the creation of other charge carriers. For example, in semiconductors, an electron (or hole) with enough kinetic energy can knock a bound electron out of its bound state (in the valence band) and promote it to a state in the conduction band, creating an electron-hole pair. For carriers to have sufficient kinetic energy a sufficiently large electric field must be applied, in essence requiring a sufficiently large voltage but not necessarily a large current.\n\nIf this occurs in a region of high electrical field then it can result in avalanche breakdown. This process is exploited in avalanche diodes, by which a small optical signal is amplified before entering an external electronic circuit. In an avalanche photodiode the original charge carrier is created by the absorption of a photon.\n\nIn some sense, impact ionization is the reverse process to Auger recombination.\n\nAvalanche photodiodes (APD) are used in optical receivers before the signal is given to the receiver circuitry the photon is multiplied with the photocurrent and this increases the sensitivity of the receiver since photocurrent is multiplied before encountering of the thermal noise associated with the receiver circuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41692639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41692639", "title": "Iron Beam", "text": "Iron Beam\n\nIron Beam (, \"\") is an air defense system which is in development by Israeli defense contractor Rafael Advanced Defense Systems. Unveiled at the 2014 Singapore Air Show on February 11 , the system is designed to destroy short-range rockets, artillery, and mortars with a range of up to , too small for the Iron Dome system to intercept effectively. In addition, the system could also intercept unmanned aerial vehicles. Iron Beam will use a \"directed high energy laser beam\" to destroy hostile targets with ranges of up to . Iron Beam will constitute the fifth element of Israel's integrated air defense system, in addition to Arrow 2, Arrow 3, David's Sling, and Iron Dome. However, Iron Beam is also a stand-alone system.\n\nIron Beam uses a fiber laser to destroy an airborne target within 4–5 seconds of firing. Whether acting as a stand-alone system or with external cueing as part of an air-defense system, a threat is detected by a surveillance system and tracked by vehicle platforms in order to engage. The main benefits of using a directed energy weapon over conventional missile interceptors are lower costs per shot, an unlimited magazine, lower operational costs, and less manpower. Though the system may not cost less than missiles, operating it has lower life-cycle costs. Limited details that have been released. As of February 2014, the system had successfully targeted mortar and artillery shells in over 100 tests and engaged and destroyed small UAVs. Current power levels are at \"tens of kilowatts\" and planned to be increased to hundreds of kW. Iron Beam has so far been funded mainly by the Israeli Ministry of Defense, and Rafael is awaiting a decision on whether they will choose to operate the system. Rafael is also pursuing increasing the range of the system and partnering with other companies to further develop the prototype. If sufficiently funded, the Iron Beam could be operational in two to three years. However, in 2015 it was speculated that it would take at least 5 years until it becomes operational.\n\nThe system is based on five years of research and development in solid-state lasers and is developed by Rafael, funded by the MoD, and extensively underwritten by the United States. An Iron Beam battery is mobile and composed of an air defense radar, a command and control (C2) unit, and two HEL systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2665718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2665718", "title": "Ištaran", "text": "Ištaran\n\nIštaran (also Gusilim) was the local deity of the city of Der, a Sumerian city state positioned east of the Tigris on the border between Sumer and Elam. His cult flourished from the Early Dynastic III Period until the Middle Babylonian Period, after which his name is no longer attested in the personal names of individuals. The beast and symbol of Ištaran, as frequently represented on kudurrus, is a snake (presumably representing Nirah, the snake god who acted as Ištaran's minister). The consort of Ištaran was known simply as Šarrat-Deri: \"the queen of Der\".\n\nAs early as the Early Dynastic period, Ištaran was being called upon as a god who might abjudicate in an inter-city border dispute between Umma and Lagaš. Scholars have suggested that his supposed effectiveness in this case might well stem from the border location of his own city, Der. His worship certainly spread beyond his own borders: perhaps in gratitude, Gudea, ruler of Lagaš, records his installation of a shrine to Ištaran in the great temple of Ningirsu at Girsu.\n\n"}
{"id": "18007622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18007622", "title": "Jordan–Wigner transformation", "text": "Jordan–Wigner transformation\n\nThe Jordan–Wigner transformation is a transformation that maps spin operators onto fermionic creation and annihilation operators. It was proposed by Pascual Jordan and Eugene Wigner for one-dimensional lattice models, but now two-dimensional analogues of the transformation have also been created. The Jordan–Wigner transformation is often used to exactly solve 1D spin-chains such as the Ising and XY models by transforming the spin operators to fermionic operators and then diagonalizing in the fermionic basis. \n\nThis transformation actually shows that the distinction between spin-1/2 particles and fermions is nonexistent. It can be applied to systems with an arbitrary dimension.\n\nIn what follows we will show how to map a 1D spin chain of spin-1/2 particles to fermions.\n\nTake spin-1/2 Pauli operators acting on a site formula_1 of a 1D chain, formula_2. Taking the anticommutator of formula_3 and formula_4, we find formula_5, as would be expected from fermionic creation and annihilation operators. We might then be tempted to set \n\nNow, we have the correct same-site fermionic relations formula_9; however, on different sites, we have the relation formula_10, where formula_11, and so spins on different sites commute unlike fermions which anti-commute. We must remedy this before we can take the analogy very seriously.\n\nA transformation which recovers the true fermion commutation relations from spin-operators was performed in 1928 by Jordan and Wigner. This is a special example of a Klein transformation. We take a chain of fermions, and define a new set of operators\nThey differ from the above only by a phase formula_15. The phase is determined by the number of occupied fermionic modes in modes formula_16 of the field. The phase is equal to formula_17 if the number of occupied modes is even, and formula_18 if the number of occupied modes is odd. This phase is often expressed as\nWhere the second equality makes use of the fact that formula_20\n\nThe transformed spin operators now have the appropriate fermionic commutation relations \nThe inverse transformation is given by\n\nNote that the definition of the fermionic operators is nonlocal with respect to the bosonic operators because we have to deal with an entire chain of operators to the left of the site the fermionic operators are defined with respect to. This is also true the other way around. This is an example of a 't Hooft operator, which is a disorder operator instead of an order operator. This is also an example of an S-duality.\n\nIf the system has more than one dimension the transformation can still be applied. It is only necessary to label the sites in an arbitrary way by a single index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38021487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38021487", "title": "Ketone enolate", "text": "Ketone enolate\n\nA ketone enolate is an enolate formed from a ketone by reaction with a strong base, such as lithium diisopropylamide, or with a Lewis acid such as dibutylboron trifluoromethanesulfonate and a weak base such as \"N\",\"N\"-diisopropylethylamine. In the latter case, the base takes the hydrogen ion from the alpha carbon of the ketone and the electron acceptor atom of the Lewis acid becomes attached to the oxygen of the ketone.\n"}
{"id": "686164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=686164", "title": "Lincoln Logs", "text": "Lincoln Logs\n\nLincoln Logs is a U.S. children's toy consisting of notched miniature logs, used to build small forts and buildings. They were invented by John Lloyd Wright, second son of the architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Lincoln Logs were inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 1999. As of 2014 Lincoln Logs are manufactured by K'NEX Industries Inc. In late 2017, K'NEX, having filed for bankruptcy, was bought out by Basic Fun, Inc. of Florida.\n\nPride Manufacturing, of Burnham, Maine, manufactures Lincoln Logs for Basic Fun.\n\nThe logs measure three quarters of an inch (roughly two centimetres) in diameter. Analogous to real logs used in a log cabin, Lincoln Logs are notched so that logs may be laid at right angles to each other to form rectangles resembling buildings. Additional parts of the toy set include roofs, chimneys, windows and doors, which bring a realistic appearance to the final creation. Later sets included animals and human figures the same scale as the buildings.\n\nThe toy sets were originally made of redwood, with varying colors of roof pieces. In the 1970s the company unsuccessfully introduced sets made entirely of plastic, but soon reverted to real wood.\n\nLincoln Logs were invented sometime around 1916–1917 when John Lloyd Wright was working in Japan with his father. The mold for the toy was based on the architecture of the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo, designed by the inventor's father. The foundation of the hotel was designed with interlocking log beams, which made the structure \"earthquake-proof\".\n\nWhen he returned to the U.S., John organized The Red Square Toy Company (named after his father's famous symbol), and marketed the toy in 1918. Wright was issued U.S. patent 1,351,086 on August 31, 1920, for a \"Toy-Cabin Construction\". Soon after, he changed the name to J. L. Wright Manufacturing. The original Lincoln Log set came with instructions on how to build Uncle Tom's Cabin as well as Abraham Lincoln's cabin. Subsequent sets were larger and more elaborate. The toy was a hit, following as it did Meccano, Tinker Toys and Erector Set introduced a few years before.\n\nK'Nex, the toy's current distributor, states the product was named after Abraham Lincoln—famously born in a log cabin—due to patriotism during World War I. Others attribute the name to Frank Lloyd Wright's original name, Frank Lincoln Wright, or the alteration of the name, 'linkin' logs.\n\nIn 1999 Lincoln Logs and John Lloyd Wright were entered into the National Toy Hall of Fame. In September 2014 the manufacturer announced the return of production from China to the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "33481966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33481966", "title": "Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy (Poland)", "text": "Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy (Poland)\n\nMinistry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of the Republic of Poland was formed in 2005 to administer issues related to labour and social policy of Poland. It was named Ministry of Labour and Social Policy until late 2015 when it was renamed to Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.\n\nThe ministry was formed from the former and short-lived Ministry of Social Affairs (created from 2004) and still existing, but reduced Ministry of Economy. From the Ministry of Economy, the new ministry acquired the competences in the fields of employment and combating unemployment, relations and conditions of labor, labor-related benefits, and trade union relations. The social policy part of the ministry gives it competences over the issues of family issues, and social benefits and welfare.\n\nThe ministry supervises the Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych.\n\nSince 2015 the current Minister of Labour and Social Policy is Elżbieta Rafalska.\n\n"}
{"id": "19455228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455228", "title": "Motor capacitor", "text": "Motor capacitor\n\nA motor capacitor, such as a start capacitor or run capacitor (including a dual run capacitor) is an electrical capacitor that alters the current to one or more windings of a single phase AC induction motor to create a rotating magnetic field. There are two common types of motor capacitors, \"run capacitors\" and \"start capacitors\". The units of capacitance are labeled in microfarads (µF). Older capacitors may be labeled with the obsolete terms \"mfd\" or \"MFD\" which can be ambiguous but are, especially in this context, used for microfarad as well (a millifarad is 1000 microfarad and not usually seen on motors).\n\nMotor capacitors are used with air conditioners, hot tub/jacuzzi spa pumps, powered gates, large fans or forced-air heat furnaces for example. A \"dual run capacitor\" is used in some air conditioner compressor units, to boost both the fan and compressor motors.\n\nStart capacitors briefly increase motor starting torque and allow a motor to be cycled on and off rapidly. A start capacitor stays in the circuit long enough to rapidly bring the motor up to a predetermined speed, which is usually about 75% of the full speed, and is then taken out of the circuit, often by a centrifugal switch that releases at that speed. Afterward the motor works more efficiently with a run capacitor.\n\nStart capacitors have ratings above 70 µF, with four major voltage classifications: 125 V, 165 V, 250 V, and 330 V. Examples of motor capacitors are: a 35 µF, at 370 V, run capacitor, or an 88–108 µF at 250 V start capacitor.\n\nStart capacitors above 20 µF are always non-polarized aluminium electrolytic capacitors with non solid electrolyte and therefore they are only applicable for the short motor starting time.\n\nThe motor will not work properly if the centrifugal switch is broken. If the switch is always \"open\", the start capacitor is not part of the circuit thus preventing startup of the motor. If the switch is always \"closed\", the start capacitor is always enabled, thus likely destroying the capacitor. If a motor does not start, the capacitor is far more likely the problem than the switch.\n\nSome single-phase AC electric motors require a \"run capacitor\" to energize the second-phase winding (auxiliary coil) to create a rotating magnetic field while the motor is running.\n\nRun capacitors are designed for continuous duty while the motor is powered, which is why electrolytic capacitors are avoided, and low-loss polymer capacitors are used. Run capacitors are mostly polypropylene film capacitors (historically: metallised paper capacitors) and are energized the entire time the motor is running. Run capacitors are rated in a range of 1.5 to 100 µF, with voltage classifications of 370 V or 440 V.\n\nIf a wrong capacitance value is installed, it will cause an uneven magnetic field around the rotor. This causes the rotor to hesitate at the uneven spots, resulting in irregular rotation, especially under load. This hesitation can cause the motor to become noisy, increase energy consumption, cause performance to drop and the motor to overheat.\n\nA dual \"run capacitor\" supports two electric motors, such as in large air conditioner or heat pump units, with both a fan motor and a compressor motor. It saves space by combining two physical capacitors into one case. The dual capacitor has three terminals labeled \"C\", \"FAN\", and \"HERM\", which stand for the Common, Fan, and HERMetically sealed compressor.\n\nDual capacitors come in a variety of sizes, depending on the capacitance (µF), such as 40 plus 5 µF, and also the voltage. A 440 volt capacitor can be used in place of a 370 volt, but not a 370 in place of a 440 volt. The capacitance must stay the same within 5% of its original value. Round cylinder-shaped dual run capacitors are commonly used for air conditioning, to help in the starting of the compressor and the condenser fan motor. An oval dual run capacitor could be used instead of a round capacitor, but the mounting strap should be changed to better fit the oval shape.\n\nA faulty run capacitor often becomes swollen, with the sides or ends bowed or bulged out further than usual: it can be clear to see that the capacitor has failed because it is swollen or even blown apart causing the capacitor's electrolyte to leak out. Some capacitors are built with a \"Pressure Sensitive Interrupter\" design that causes them to fail before internal pressures can cause serious injury. One design causes the top of the capacitor to expand and break internal wiring.\n\n\"Weak Capacitor\" - Over many years of use the capacitance of the capacitor drops. As a result the motor may fail to start or run at full power.\n\nIf a motor is running during a lightning strike on the power grid, the run capacitor might be damaged or weakened by a voltage spike, thus requiring replacement.\n\nIEC/EN 60252-1 2001 specifies levels of protection \n\nfor motor run capacitors\n\nThe motor capacitor, which is a component of a hot tub circulating pump, can overheat if defective. This poses a fire hazard, and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has received more than 100 reports of incidents of overheating of the motor capacitor, with some fires started.\n\n"}
{"id": "1711223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1711223", "title": "Murraylink", "text": "Murraylink\n\nMurraylink is an Australian high voltage direct current electricity transmission link between Berri in South Australia and Red Cliffs in Victoria, connecting the two state electricity grids. Murraylink was commissioned in 2002 and is believed to be the worlds longest underground transmission system and cost more than A$177 million. It was built by TransEnergie Australia, a subsidiary of Hydro-Québec. It was sold to the Australian Pipeline Trust (APA Group) in March 2006 for A$153 million. In December 2008 ownership of Murraylink (as well as Directlink) was transferred to the newly formed Energy Infrastructure Investments Group, while APA continued as the operator. The ownership of EII is APA with 19.9%, with the balance with Japan-based Marubeni Corporation with 49.9% and Osaka Gas with 30.2%.\n\nMurraylink consists of two long bipolar HVDC cables. The circuit has an operating voltage of 150 kV and a transmission capacity of 220 megawatts. The link operates an \"HVDC Light\" voltage-source converter system, utilising insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBT), to convert electricity between alternating current and direct current.\n\nWhile Murraylink is rated at 220MW, it is unable to operate at capacity during periods of high demand due to limitations in the transmission infrastructure at either end. The limitations relate to thermal overload of transformers or transmission lines supplying the Riverland (for South Australia to Victoria transmission) and western Victoria (for Victoria to South Australia transmission).\n"}
{"id": "26720235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26720235", "title": "Nanofluid", "text": "Nanofluid\n\nA nanofluid is a fluid containing nanometer-sized particles, called nanoparticles. These fluids are engineered colloidal suspensions of nanoparticles in a base fluid. The nanoparticles used in nanofluids are typically made of metals, oxides, carbides, or carbon nanotubes. Common base fluids include water, ethylene glycol and oil.\n\nNanofluids have novel properties that make them potentially useful in many applications in heat transfer, including microelectronics, fuel cells, pharmaceutical processes, and hybrid-powered engines, engine cooling/vehicle thermal management, domestic refrigerator, chiller, heat exchanger, in grinding, machining and in boiler flue gas temperature reduction. They exhibit enhanced thermal conductivity and the convective heat transfer coefficient compared to the base fluid. Knowledge of the rheological behaviour of nanofluids is found to be critical in deciding their suitability for convective heat transfer applications.\nNanofluids also have special acoustical properties and in ultrasonic fields display additional shear-wave reconversion of an incident compressional wave; the effect becomes more pronounced as concentration increases.\n\nIn analysis such as computational fluid dynamics (CFD), nanofluids can be assumed to be single phase fluids; however, almost all new academic papers use a two-phase assumption. Classical theory of single phase fluids can be applied, where physical properties of nanofluid is taken as a function of properties of both constituents and their concentrations. An alternative approach simulates nanofluids using a two-component model.\n\nThe spreading of a nanofluid droplet is enhanced by the solid-like ordering structure of nanoparticles assembled near the contact line by diffusion, which gives rise to a structural disjoining pressure in the vicinity of the contact line. However, such enhancement is not observed for small droplets with diameter of nanometer scale, because the wetting time scale is much smaller than the diffusion time scale.\n\nNanofluids are produced by several techniques:\nSeveral liquids including water, ethylene glycol, and oils have been used as base fluids. Although stabilization can be a challenge, on-going research indicates that it is possible. Nano-materials used so far in nanofluid synthesis include metallic particles, oxide particles, carbon nanotubes, graphene nano-flakes and ceramic particles.\n\nRealizing the modest thermal conductivity enhancement in conventional nanofluids, a team of researchers at Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research Centre, Kalpakkam developed a new class of magnetically polarizable nanofluids where the thermal conductivity enhancement up to 300% of basefluids is demonstrated. Fatty-acid-capped magnetite nanoparticles of different sizes (3-10 nm) have been synthesized for this purpose. It has been shown that both the thermal and rheological properties of such magnetic nanofluids are tunable by varying the magnetic field strength and orientation with respect to the direction of heat flow. Such response stimuli fluids are reversibly switchable and have applications in miniature devices such as micro- and nano-electromechanical systems.\nIn 2013, Azizian et al. considered the effect of an external magnetic field on the convective heat transfer coefficient of water-based magnetite nanofluid experimentally under laminar flow regime. Up to 300% enhancement obtained at Re=745 and magnetic field gradient of 32.5 mT/mm. The effect of the magnetic field on the pressure drop was not as significant.\n\nIn nanofluids, it is recognized that nanoparticles do not follow the fluid streamlines passively. In fact, there are some reasons that induce a slip velocity between the nanoparticles and the base fluid. Movements of nanoparticles has significant impact on rheological and thermophysical properties of the nanofluids. Therefore, investigating the nanoparticles motion is critical for evaluating the performance of nanoparticles inclusion to the base fluid as a heat transfer medium. Since the nanoparticles are very small ( 100 nm), Brownian and thermophoretic diffusivities are the main slip mechanisms in nanofluids, as Buongiorno declared. Brownian diffusion is due to random drifting of suspended nanoparticles in the base fluid which originates from continuous collisions among the nanoparticles and liquid molecules. Thermophoresis induces nanoparticle migration from warmer to colder region (in opposite direction of the temperature gradient), making a non-uniform nanoparticle volume fraction distribution.\n\nIn fact, theoretical models estimated that nanoparticles are non-homogeneously distributed. The level of non-uniformity is completely depend on thermal boundary conditions, the nanoparticle size, shape, and material. Rigorous readers encouraged to find more interesting results in open literature.\n\nResearchers have invented a nanofluid-based ultrasensitive optical sensor that changes its colour on exposure to extremely low concentrations of toxic cations. The sensor is useful in detecting minute traces of cations in industrial and environmental samples. Existing techniques for monitoring cations levels in industrial and environmental samples are expensive, complex and time-consuming. The sensor is designed with a magnetic nanofluid that consists of nano-droplets with magnetic grains suspended in water. At a fixed magnetic field, a light source illuminates the nanofluid where the colour of the nanofluid changes depending on the cation concentration. This color change occurs within a second after exposure to cations, much faster than other existing cation sensing methods.\n\nSuch response stimulus nanofluids are also used to detect and image defects in ferromagnetic components. The photonic eye, as it has been called, is based on a magnetically polarizable nano-emulsion that changes colour when it comes into contact with a defective region in a sample. The device might be used to monitor structures such as rail tracks and pipelines.\nMagnetic nanoparticle clusters or magnetic nanobeads with the size 80–150 nanometers form ordered structures along the direction of the external magnetic field with a regular interparticle spacing on the order of hundreds of nanometers resulting in strong diffraction of visible light in suspension.\n\nAnother word used to describe nanoparticle based suspensions is Nanolubricants. They are mainly prepared using oils used for engine and machine lubrication. So far several materials including metals, oxides and allotropes of carbon have been used to formulate nanolubricants. The addition of nanomaterials mainly enhances the thermal conductivity and anti-wear property of base oils. Although MoS2, graphene, Cu based fluids have been studied extensively, the fundamental understanding of underlying mechanisms is still needed.\n\nMolybdenum disulfide (MoS2) and graphene work as third body lubricants, essentially becoming tiny microscopic ball bearings, which reduce the friction between two contacting surfaces. This mechanism is beneficial if a sufficient supply of these particles are present at the contact interface. The beneficial effects are diminished as the rubbing mechanism pushes out the third body lubricants. Changing the lubricant, like-wise, will null the effects of the nanolubricants drained with the oil.\n\nOther nanolubricant approaches, such as Magnesium Silicate Hydroxides (MSH) rely on nanoparticle coatings by synthesizing nanomaterials with adhesive and lubricating functionalities. Research into nanolubricant coatings has been conducted in both the academic and industrial spaces. Nanoborate additives as well as mechanical model descriptions of diamond-like carbon (DLC) coating formations have been developed by Ali Erdemir at Argonne National Labs. Companies such as TriboTEX provide consumer formulations of synthesized MSH nanomaterial coatings for vehicle engines and industrial applications.\n\nMany researches claim that nanoparticles can be used to enhance crude oil recovery. It is evident that development of nanofluids for oil and gas industry has a great practical aspects. \n\nNanofluids are primarily used for their enhanced thermal properties as coolants in heat transfer equipment such as heat exchangers, electronic cooling system(such as flat plate) and radiators. Heat transfer over flat plate has been analyzed by many researchers. However, they are also useful for their controlled optical properties. Graphene based nanofluid has been found to enhance Polymerase chain reaction efficiency. Nanofluids in solar collectors is another application where nanofluids are employed for their tunable optical properties.\nThere are four thermophysical properties related to fluid, which are namely viscosity, thermal conductivity, specific heat capacity and density.\n\nPak and Choi Model\n\nformula_1\n\nXuan and Roetzel model\n\nformula_2\n\nSee also Viscosity of nanofluids\n\nSee also Thermal conductivity of nanofluids\n\n\nEuropean projects:\n"}
{"id": "5938381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938381", "title": "Outdoor Life Conservation Pledge", "text": "Outdoor Life Conservation Pledge\n\nThe Outdoor Life Conservation Pledge was established in 1946 and then revised in 1993. The pledge was written to remind readers of Outdoor Life magazine and other sportsmen of the vigilance needed to preserve the natural world. The pledge has been taken by thousands of people including Harry S. Truman and Al Gore, and it runs on the letters page of every issue of Outdoor Life.\n\nThe pledge reads:\n\nAlong with the pledge, two awards are given annually by the magazine to honor an individual in the private sector and one in the public sector. The Outdoor Life Conservation Award was first presented in 1923 to those who \"accomplish the greatest good for the sportsmen's cause in the United States,\" said founder J. A. McGuire. Ordinary people and celebrities have both received the award. Probably the most famous recipient is Jimmy Carter.\n\nThe ORIGINAL PLEDGE was:\n\nI give my pledge, as and American, faithfully to protect the natural resources of our nation, its forests, waters, and wildlife."}
{"id": "30995376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30995376", "title": "Photoelectrochemical reduction of CO2", "text": "Photoelectrochemical reduction of CO2\n\nPhotoelectrochemical reduction of CO is a chemical process whereby carbon dioxide is reduced to carbon monoxide or hydrocarbons by the energy of incident light. This process needs to be catalyzed either homogeneously or heterogeneously in order to proceed, and current research is aimed at developing these catalysts, most of which are semiconducting materials. Semiconducting catalysts provide favourable electron transfer kinetics.\n\nMotivation for research in this area is strong due to the current attention to atmospheric carbon dioxide as the reduction of carbon dioxide would be one route for removal and sequestration. Furthermore, the reduced species may prove to be a valuable feedstock for other processes. If the incident light utilized is solar in nature then this process also potentially represents energy routes which combine renewable energy with CO reduction.\n\nSemiconductor material has a band gap and generates a pair of electron and hole per absorbed photon if the energy of photon is higher than band gap of semiconductor. This property of semiconductor materials has been successfully used to convert solar energy into electrical energy by photovoltaic devices. So, semiconductor electrodes can be used for CO photoelectrochemical reduction.\n\nWhen a semiconductor comes into contact with a liquid (redox species), to maintain electrostatic equilibrium, there will be a charge transfer between the semiconductor and liquid phase if formal redox potential of redox species lies inside semiconductor band gap. At thermodynamic equilibrium, the Fermi level of semiconductor and the formal redox potential of redox species are aligned at the interface between semiconductor and redox species. This introduces a downward band bending in a n-type semiconductor for n-type semiconductor/liquid junction (Figure 1) and upward band bending in a p-type semiconductor for p-type semiconductor/liquid junction (Figure 2). This characteristic of semiconductor/liquid junction is similar to a rectifying semiconductor/metal junction or Schottky junction. Ideally to get a good rectifying characteristics at the semiconductor/liquid interface, the formal redox potential must be close to the valence band of the semiconductor for a n-type semiconductor and close to the conduction band of the semiconductor for a p-type semiconductor. The semiconductor/liquid junction has one advantage over rectifying semiconductor/metal junction in that the light is able to travel through to semiconductor surface without much reflection; whereas most of the light is reflected back from metal surface at semiconductor/metal junction. Therefore, semiconductor/liquid junction can also be used a photovoltaic devices similar to solid state p–n junction devices. Both n-type and p-type semiconductor/liquid junction can be used as photovoltaic devices to convert solar energy into electrical energy and are called photoelectrochemical cell. In addition, a semiconductor/liquid junction could also be used to directly convert solar energy into chemical energy by virtue of photoelectrolysis at the semiconductor/liquid junction.\n\n\nThe catalytic conversion of CO to liquid fuels is a critical goal that would positively impact the global carbon balance by recycling CO into usable fuels. The challenges presented here are great, but the potential rewards are enormous. CO is extremely stable molecule generally produced by fossil fuel combustion and respiration. Returning CO to a useful state by activation/reduction is a scientifically challenging problem, requiring appropriate catalysts and energy input. This poses several fundamental challenges in chemical catalysis, electrochemistry, photochemistry, and semiconductor physics and engineering.\n\nThermodynamic potentials for the reduction of CO to various products is given in the following table versus NHE at pH = 7. Single electron reduction of CO to CO radical occurs at E° = −1.90 V versus NHE at pH = 7 in an aqueous solution at 25 °C under 1 atm gas pressure. The reason behind the high negative thermodynamically unfavorable single electron reduction potential of CO is the large reorganization energy between the linear molecule and bent radical anion. Proton-coupled multi-electron steps for CO reductions are generally more favorable than single electron reductions, as thermodynamically more stable molecules are produced.\n\nThermodynamically, proton coupled multiple-electron reduction of CO is easier than single electron reduction. But to manage multiple proton coupled multiple-electron processes is a huge challenge kinetically. This leads to a high overpotential for electrochemical heterogeneous reduction of CO to hydrocarbons and alcohols. Even further heterogeneous reduction of singly reduced CO radical anion is difficult because of repulsive interaction between negatively biased electrode and negatively charged anion.\n\nFigure 2 shows that in case of a p-type semiconductor/liquid junction photo generated electrons are available at the semiconductor/liquid interface under illumination. The reduction of redox species happens at less negative potential on illuminated p-type semiconductor compared to metal electrode due to the band bending at semiconductor/liquid interface. Figure 3 shows that thermodynamically, some of the proton-coupled multi-electron CO reductions are within semiconductors band gap. This makes it feasible to photo-reduce CO on p-type semiconductors. Various p-type semiconductors have been successfully employed for CO photo reduction including p-GaP, p-CdTe, p-Si, p-GaAs, p-InP, and p-SiC. Kinetically, however, these reactions are extremely slow on given semiconductor surfaces; this leads to significant overpotential for CO reduction on these semiconductor surfaces. Apart from high overpotential; these systems have a few advantages including sustainability (nothing is consumed in this system apart from light energy), direct conversion of solar energy to chemical energy, utilization of renewable energy resource for energy intensive process, stability of the process (semiconductors are really stable under illumination) etc. A different approach for photo-reduction of CO involves molecular catalysts, photosensitizers and sacrificial electron donors. In this process sacrificial electron donors are consumed during the process and photosensitizers degrade under long exposure to illumination.\n\nThe photo-reduction of CO on p-type semiconductor photo-electrodes has been achieved in both aqueous and non-aqueous media. Main difference between aqueous and non-aqueous media is the solubility of CO. The solubility of CO in aqueous media at 1 atm. of CO is around ≈ 35 mM; whereas solubility of CO in methanol is around 210 mM and in acetonitrile is around 210 mM.\n\nHalmann had first shown CO photoreduction to formic acid on p-GaP as photocathode in aqueous media in 1978. Apart from several other reports of CO photoreduction on p-GaP, there are other p-type semiconductors like p-GaAs, p-InP, p-CdTe, and p/p-Si have been successfully used for photoreduction of CO. The lowest potential for CO photoreduction was observed on p-GaP. This may be due to high photovoltage excepted from higher band gap p-GaP (2.2 eV) photocathode. Apart from formic acid, other products observed for CO photoreduction are formaldehyde, methanol and carbon monoxide. On p-GaP, p-GaAs and p/p-Si photocathode, the main product is formic acid with small amount of formaldehyde and methanol. However, for p-InP and p-CdTe photocathode, both carbon monoxide and formic acid are observed in similar quantities. Mechanism proposed by Hori based on CO reduction on metal electrodes predicts formation of both formic acid (in case of no adsorption of singly reduced CO radical anion to the surface) and carbon monoxide (in case of adsorption of singly reduced CO radical anion to the surface) in aqueous media. This same mechanism can be evoked to explain the formation of mainly formic acid on p-GaP, p-GaAs and p/p-Si photocathode owing to no adsorption of singly reduced CO radical anion to the surface. In case of p-InP and p-CdTe photocathode, partial adsorption of CO radical anion leads to formation of both carbon monoxide and formic acid. Low catalytic current density for CO photoreduction and competitive hydrogen generation are two major drawbacks of this system.\n\nMaximum catalytic current density for CO reduction that can be achieved in aqueous media is only 10 mA cm based solubility of CO and diffusion limitations. The integrated maximum photocurrent under Air Mass 1.5 illumination, in the conventional Shockley-Quiesser limit for solar energy conversion for p-Si (1.12 eV), p-InP (1.3 eV), p-GaAs (1.4 eV), and p-GaP (2.3 eV) are 44.0 mA cm, 37.0 mA cm, 32.5 mA cm and 9.0 mA cm, respectively. Therefore, non-aqueous media such as DMF, acetonitrile, methanol are explored as solvent for CO electrochemical reduction. In addition, Methanol has been industrially used as a physical absorber of CO in the Rectisol method. Similarly to aqueous media system, p-Si, p-InP, p-GaAs, p-GaP and p-CdTe are explored for CO photoelectrochemical reduction. Among these, p-GaP has lowest overpotential, whereas, p-CdTe has moderate overpotential but high catalytic current density in DMF with 5% water mixture system. Main product of CO reduction in non-aqueous media is carbon monoxide. Competitive hydrogen generation is minimized in non-aqueous media. Proposed mechanism for CO reduction to CO in non-aqueous media involves single electron reduction of CO to CO radical anion and adsorption of radical anion to surface followed by disproportionate reaction between unreduced CO and CO radical anion to form CO and CO.\n\nElectrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide\n"}
{"id": "13371727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13371727", "title": "Physics of Fluids", "text": "Physics of Fluids\n\nPhysics of Fluids is a peer-reviewed monthly scientific journal on fluid dynamics, founded by the American Institute of Physics in 1958, and is published by the AIP Publishing. The journal focus is the dynamics of gases, liquids, and complex or multiphase fluids—and the journal contains original research resulting from theoretical, computational, and experimental studies.\n\nFrom 1958 through 1988, the journal included plasma physics. From 1989 until 1993, the journal split into \"Physics of Fluids A\" covering fluid dynamics, and \"Physics of Fluids B,\" on plasma physics. In 1994, the latter was renamed \"Physics of Plasmas\", and the former continued under its original name, \"Physics of Fluids\".\n\n\"Physics of Fluids\" was originally published by the American Institute of Physics in cooperation with the American Physical Society's Division of Fluid Dynamics (APS-DFD). In 2016, the American Physical Society founded its own journal \"Physical Review Fluids\". From 1985–2015, \"Physics of Fluids\" published the \"Gallery of Fluid Motion\", containing award-winning photographs, images and visual streaming media of fluid flow. Since 2016, the \"Gallery of Fluid Motion\" is published by the American Physical Society.\n\nWith funding from the American Institute of Physics the annual \"François Naftali Frenkiel Award\" was established by the American Physical Society in 1984 to reward a young scientist who published a paper containing significant contributions to fluid dynamics during the previous year. The award-winning paper was chosen from \"Physics of Fluids\" until 2016.\n\n\"Physics of Fluids A\", \"Physics of Fluids B\", and \"Physics of Fluids\" were ranked 3, 4, and 6, respectively based on their citation impact from 1981–2004 within the category of journals on the physics of fluids and plasmas. According to the Journal Citation Reports, in 2016, \"Physics of Fluids\" published 554 articles and was cited 27,962 times. \"Physics of Fluids\" has a 2017 impact factor of 2.279.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27171696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27171696", "title": "Pressboard", "text": "Pressboard\n\nPressboard is a class of cellulose-based material constructed of several layers (plies) of paper which, when compressed using a combination of heat and pressure, form a stiff, dense material in a range of weights. Pressboard has been widely used in traditional school and office products such as spiral-bound notebooks and three-ring binders, but its unique physical characteristics lend itself readily to a variety of end-uses, including (but not limited to) document storage, filing supplies (classification and file folders), report covers, folding cartons, tags, labels, and industrial applications. It is commonly used to make the back panels of radios and some televisions. Pressboard may be converted using a number of different techniques (scoring, folding, die-cutting), and accepts a range of value-add decorating techniques (coating, foil-stamping, screen-printing, and embossing). Pressboard may contain recycled fiber content (including post-consumer waste), and is typically itself recyclable and biodegradable, making it an environmentally-sound choice for those seeking an alternative to petroleum-derived substrates.\n"}
{"id": "57455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57455", "title": "Sago", "text": "Sago\n\nSago is a starch extracted from the spongy centre, or pith, of various tropical palm stems, especially that of \"Metroxylon sagu\". It is a major staple food for the lowland peoples of New Guinea and the Moluccas, where it is called \"saksak\", \"rabia\" and \"sagu\". The largest supply of sago comes from Southeast Asia, particularly Indonesia and Malaysia. Large quantities of sago are sent to Europe and North America for cooking purposes. It is traditionally cooked and eaten in various forms, such as rolled into balls, mixed with boiling water to form a glue-like paste (papeda), or as a pancake. Sago is often produced commercially in the form of \"pearls\" (small rounded starch aggregates, partly gelatinized by heating). Sago pearls can be boiled with water or milk and sugar to make a sweet sago pudding. Sago pearls are similar in appearance to the pearled starches of other origin, e.g. cassava starch (tapioca) and potato starch, and they may be used interchangeably in some dishes.\n\nThe name \"sago\" is also sometimes used for starch extracted from other sources, especially the sago cycad, \"Cycas revoluta\". The sago cycad is also commonly known (confusingly) as the sago palm, although this is a misnomer as cycads are not palms. Extracting edible starch from the sago cycad requires special care due to the poisonous nature of cycads. Cycad sago is used for many of the same purposes as palm sago.\n\nThe fruit of palm trees from which the sago is produced is not allowed to ripen fully. The full ripening completes the life cycle of the tree and exhausts the starch reserves in the trunk to produce the seeds. It leaves a hollow shell and causes the tree to die. The palms are cut down when they are about 15 years old, just before or shortly after the inflorescence appears. The stems, which grow 10 to 15 metres high), are split out. The starch-containing pith is taken from the stems and ground to powder. The powder is kneaded in water over a cloth or sieve to release the starch. The water with the starch passes into a trough where the starch settles. After a few washings, the starch is ready to be used in cooking. A single palm yields about 800 pounds (360 kilograms) of dry starch.\n\nThe sago palm, \"Metroxylon sagu\", is found in tropical lowland forest and freshwater swamps across Southeast Asia and New Guinea and is the primary source of sago. It tolerates a wide variety of soils and may reach 30 meters in height (including the leaves). Several other species of the genus \"Metroxylon\", particularly \"Metroxylon salomonense\" and \"Metroxylon amicarum\", are also used as sources of sago throughout Melanesia and Micronesia.\n\nSago palms grow very quickly, in clumps of different ages similar to bananas, one sucker matures, then flowers and dies. It is replaced by another sucker, with up to 1.5 m of vertical stem growth per year. The stems are thick and are either self-supporting or have a moderate climbing habit; the leaves are pinnate. Each palm trunk produces a single inflorescence at its tip at the end of its life. Sago palms are harvested at the age of 7–15 years, just before or shortly after the inflorescence appears and when the stems are full of starch stored for use in reproduction. One palm can yield 150–300 kg of starch.\nSago is extracted from \"Metroxylon\" palms by splitting the stem lengthwise and removing the pith which is then crushed and kneaded to release the starch before being washed and strained to extract the starch from the fibrous residue. The raw starch suspension in water is then collected in a settling container.\n\nThe sago cycad, \"Cycas revoluta\", is a slow-growing wild or ornamental plant. Its common names \"sago palm\" and \"king sago palm\" are misnomers as cycads are not palms. Processed starch known as sago is made from this and other cycads. It is a less-common food source for some peoples of the Pacific and Indian Oceans.-\nUnlike \"metroxylon\" palms (discussed above), cycads are highly poisonous: most parts of the plant contain the neurotoxins cycasin and BMAA. Consumption of cycad seeds has been implicated in the outbreak of Parkinson's disease-like neurological disorder in Guam and other locations in the Pacific. Thus, before any part of the plant may safely be eaten the toxins must be removed through extended processing.\n\nSago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour, before being dried, pounded, and soaked. The starch is then washed carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins. The starchy residue is then dried and cooked, producing a starch similar to palm sago/sabudana.\n\nThe cycad seed should not be eaten as it remains highly toxic after washing.\n\nIn Brazil, sago is extracted from cassava root, in what is known in English as tapioca pearls. It is usually mixed with wine and then served as a dessert.\n\nSago from \"Metroxylon\" palms is nearly pure carbohydrate and has very little protein, vitamins, or minerals. 100 grams of dry sago typically comprises 94 grams of carbohydrate, 0.2 grams of protein, 0.5 grams of dietary fiber, 10 mg of calcium, 1.2 mg of iron and negligible amounts of fat, carotene, thiamine and ascorbic acid and yields approximately 355 calories. Sago palms are typically found in areas unsuited for other forms of agriculture, so sago cultivation is often the most ecologically appropriate form of land-use and the nutritional deficiencies of the food can often be compensated for with other readily available foods.\nSago starch can be baked (resulting in a product analogous to bread, pancake, or biscuit) or mixed with boiling water to form a paste. It is a main staple of many traditional communities in New Guinea and Maluku in the form of papeda, Borneo, South Sulawesi (most known in Luwu Regency) and Sumatra. In Palembang, sago is one of the ingredients to make pempek. In Brunei, it is used for making the popular local cuisine called the ambuyat. It is also used commercially in making noodles and white bread. Sago starch can also be used as a thickener for other dishes. It can be made into steamed puddings such as sago plum pudding.\n\nIn Malaysia, the traditional food \"keropok lekor\" (fish cracker) uses sago as one of its main ingredients. In the making of the popular keropok lekor of Losong in Kuala Terengganu, each kilogram of fish meat is mixed with half a kilogram of fine sago, with a little salt added for flavour. Tons of raw sago are imported each year into Malaysia to support the keropok lekor industry.\n\nIn 1805, two captured crew members of the shipwrecked schooner \"Betsey\" were kept alive until their escape from an undetermined island on a diet of sago.\nAny starch can be pearled by heating and stirring small aggregates of moist starch, producing partly gelatinized dry kernels which swell but remain intact on boiling. Pearl sago closely resembles pearl tapioca. Both are typically small (about 2 mm diameter) dry, opaque balls. Both may be white (if very pure) or colored naturally grey, brown or black, or artificially pink, yellow, green, etc. When soaked and cooked, both become much larger, translucent, soft and spongy. Both are widely used in Indian, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan cuisine in a variety of dishes and around the world, usually in puddings. In India, it is used in a variety of dishes such as desserts boiled with sweetened milk on occasion of religious fasts. In India, \"Tapioca Sago\" is considered an acceptable form of nutrition during periods of fasts for religious purposes or for infants or ill persons.\n\nIn the UK, both sago and tapioca have long been used in sweet milk puddings.\n\nIn New Zealand, sago is boiled with water and lemon juice and sweetened with golden syrup to make lemon sago pudding.\n\nIn India, Tapioca Sago is used mainly to make the food items like \"Kheer\",\"Kichadi\", \"Vada\" etc.\n\nSago starch is also used to treat fibre, making it easier to machine. This process is called sizing and helps to bind the fibre, give it a predictable slip for running on metal, standardise the level of hydration of the fibre and give the textile more body. Most cloth and clothing has been sized; this leaves a residue which is removed in the first wash.\n\nBecause many traditional people rely on sago-palm as their main food staple and because those supplies of these are not unlimited, in some areas commercial or industrial harvesting of wild stands of sago-palm can conflict with the food needs of local communities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49886880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49886880", "title": "Sakata model", "text": "Sakata model\n\nIn particle physics, the Sakata model of hadrons was a precursor to the quark model. It proposed that the proton, neutron, and Lambda baryon were elementary particles (sometimes referred to as sakatons), and that all other known hadrons were made of them. The model was proposed by Shoichi Sakata in 1956. The model was successful in explaining many features of hadrons, but was supplanted by the quark model as the understanding of hadrons progressed.\n\nThe success of the Sakata model is due to the fact that there is a correspondence between the proton, neutron, and Lambda baryon, and the up, down, and strange quarks. The proton contains two up quarks and a down quark, the neutron contains one up quark and two down quarks, while the Lambda baryon contains one up quark, one down quark, and one strange quark. That is, each of these baryons is made of one up and one down quark, and an additional quark: up for the proton, down for the neutron, and strange for the Lambda baryon. Because of this correspondence to the up, down, and strange quarks, the Sakata model has the same SU(3) symmetry as the quark model, and can reproduce the flavour quantum numbers of all hadrons made of up, down and strange quarks. Because the charm quark was not discovered until 1974, the Sakata model remained a staple of particle physics for some time after the quark model had been proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "56415007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56415007", "title": "Shaping processes in crystal growth", "text": "Shaping processes in crystal growth\n\nShaping processes in crystal growth are a collection of techniques for growing bulk crystals of a defined shape from a melt, usually by constraining the shape of the liquid meniscus by means of a mechanical shaper. Crystals are commonly grown as fibers, solid cylinders, hollow cylinders (or tubes), and sheets (or plates). More complex shapes such as tubes with a complex cross section, and domes have also been produced. Using a shaping process can produce a near net shape crystal and reduce the manufacturing cost for crystals which are composed of very expensive or difficult to machine materials.\n\n\nEdge-defined film-fed growth or EFG was developed for sapphire growth in the late 1960s by Harold LaBelle and A. Mlavsky at Tyco Industries.\nA shaper (also referred to as a die) having dimensions approximately equal to the crystal to be grown rests above the surface of the melt which is contained in a crucible. Capillary action feeds liquid material to a slit at the center of the shaper. When a seed crystal is touched to the liquid film and raised upwards, a single crystal forms at the interface between the solid seed and the liquid film. By continuing to pull the seed upwards, the crystal expands as a liquid film forms between the crystal and the top surface of the shaper. When the film reaches the edges of the shaper, the final crystal shape matches that of the shaper.\n\nThe exact dimensions of the crystal will deviate from the dimensions of the shaper because every material has a characteristic growth angle, the angle formed at the triple interface between the solid crystal, liquid film, and the atmosphere. Because of the growth angle, varying the height of the meniscus (i.e. the thickness of the liquid film) will change the dimensions of the crystal. The meniscus height is affected by pulling speed and crystallization rate. The crystallization rate depends on the temperature gradient above the shaper, which is determined by the configuration of the hot-zone of the crystal growth furnace, and the power applied to the heating elements during growth. The difference in thermal expansion coefficients between the shaper material and the crystal material can also cause appreciable size differences between the shaper and the crystal at room temperature for crystals grown at high temperatures. \n\nThe shaper material should be non-reactive with both the melt and growth atmosphere, and should be wet by the melt.\n\nIt is possible to grow multiple crystals from a single crucible using the EFG technique, for example by growing many parallel sheets. \n\nSapphire: EFG is used to grow large plates of sapphire, primarily for use as robust infrared windows for defense and other applications. Windows about 7 mm thick x 300  mm wide x 500 mm long are produced. The shaper is typically made from molybdenum.\n\nSilicon: EFG was used in the 2000s by Schott Solar to produce silicon sheets for solar photovoltaic panels, by pulling a thin-walled (~250-300 μm) octagon with faces 12.5 cm on a side and diameter about 38 cm, about 5-6 m long. The shaper is typically made from graphite.\n\nOther oxides: Many high melting-point oxides have been grown by EFG, among them GaO, LiNbO, and Nd:(LuGd)GaO (Nd:LGGG).\nOften an iridium shaper is used.\n\nHorizontal ribbon growth or HRG is a method developed for silicon by which a thin crystalline sheet is pulled horizontally from the top of a crucible. The melt level must be constantly replenished in order to keep the surface of the melt at the same height as the edge of the crucible from which the sheet is being pulled. By blowing a cooling gas at the surface of the growing sheet, very high growth rates (>400 mm/min) can be achieved. The method relies on the solid crystal floating on the surface of the melt, which works because solid silicon is less dense than liquid silicon.\n\nThe micro-pulling-down or µ-PD technique uses a small round opening in the bottom of the crucible to pull a crystalline fiber downward. Hundreds of different crystalline materials have been grown by this technique.\n\nA variation called pendant drop growth or PDG uses a slot in the bottom of the crucible to produce crystalline sheets in a similar manner.\n\nThe Stepanov technique was developed by A.V. Stepanov in the Soviet Union after 1950. The method involves pulling a crystal vertically through a shaper located at the surface of the melt. The shaper is not necessarily fed by a capillary channel as in EFG. The shaper material may be wetted or non-wetted by the melt, as opposed to EFG where the shaper material is wetted. The technique has been used to grow metal, semiconductor, and oxide crystals.\n\nCzochralski growth using a floating shaper known as a \"coracle\" was done for some III-V semiconductors prior to the development of advanced control-systems for diameter control.\n\nThe string ribbon method, also known as dendritic web or edge-supported pulling, has been used to grow semiconductor sheets including indium antimonide, gallium arsenide, germanium, and silicon.\nA seed crystal with the width and thickness matching the sheet to be grown is dipped into the top surface of the melt. Strings of a suitable material are fixed to the vertical edges of the seed and extend down through holes in the bottom of the crucible to a spool. As the seed is raised, string is continuously fed through the melt and a liquid film forms between the seed, the strings, and the melt. The film crystallizes to the seed, forming a sheet or ribbon.\n"}
{"id": "50939915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50939915", "title": "Solar heat collector and radiator for building roof", "text": "Solar heat collector and radiator for building roof\n\nThe Solar Heat Collector & Radiator is a heat collecting and heat radiating roof structure, designed for building roofs specifically. It was built to be used in conjunction with solar energy and uses a system of air circulation for increased efficiency. A solar heat collector, or solar thermal collector, is used today to capture solar radiation through electromagnetic radiation with the use of solar hot water panels, solar parabolic troughs, or solar towers. Today many people create their own DIY solar heat collectors, but the inventor William Goettl was the first to design and patent this technology.\n\nWilliam Goettl found in 1977 that many building roofs have heat collectors, often pipes, to warm up water or air for a building.\n\nThe Solar Heat Collector & Radiator for Building Roof consists of a U-shaped duct with cross-section, and upstanding flanges. The duct structures between adjacent rafters and provides an intermediate partition between upper areas of rafters. There is also a radiation-transparent convection shield above the cover plate to stop heat being lost air movement. William Goettl, of Goettl Air Conditioning, patented this technology in 1977 through the U.S. Patent Office with patent number US4098260. It has since been cited by five other patents and referenced by twenty-eight other patents, dating from 1977 to present day, including the modern model of a solar-powered water heating system designed by the Snyder National Corporation, and a solar heating panel by Solar Shelter Engineering Inc.\n\nWilliam H. Goettl was one of the original members of the Sheet Metal Air Rail and Transportation (SMART) charter. He was an instrumental founding role for the Sheet Metal Workers’ Local Union 359 in Arizona, especially when they were writing their original members’ charter in 1937. After moving out of sheet metal work, he invested in the Goettl Brothers Metal Products in Phoenix and took over as the company leader in 1946. Ten years later, he was elected as President of the Air Conditioning Contractors Association. By 1972, Goettl had become the largest HVAC contractor in the United States and started introducing significant patents to the industry. William Goettl filed for a patent for the Solar Heat Collector & Radiator for Building Roof on February 7, 1977 and his patent published on July 4, 1978.\n"}
{"id": "11059653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11059653", "title": "Sprite (lightning)", "text": "Sprite (lightning)\n\nSprites are large-scale electrical discharges that occur high above thunderstorm clouds, or cumulonimbus, giving rise to a quite varied range of visual shapes flickering in the night sky. They are usually triggered by the discharges of positive lightning between an underlying thundercloud and the ground.\n\nSprites appear as luminous reddish-orange flashes. They often occur in clusters above the troposphere at an altitude range of . Sporadic visual reports of sprites go back at least to 1886, but they were first photographed on July 6, 1989 by scientists from the University of Minnesota and have subsequently been captured in video recordings many thousands of times.\n\nSprites are sometimes inaccurately called upper-atmospheric lightning. However, sprites are cold plasma phenomena that lack the hot channel temperatures of tropospheric lightning, so they are more akin to fluorescent tube discharges than to lightning discharges.\n\nAllusions to transient optical phenomena above thunderclouds can be found in anecdotal reports by Johann Georg Estor as early as 1730. Nobel laureate C. T. R. Wilson had suggested in 1925, on theoretical grounds, that electrical breakdown could occur in the upper atmosphere, and in 1956 he witnessed what possibly could have been a sprite. They were first documented photographically on July 6, 1989, when scientists from the University of Minnesota, using a low-light video camera, accidentally captured the first image of what would subsequently become known as a sprite.\nSeveral years after their discovery they were named sprites (air spirits) after their elusive nature. Since their 1989 discovery, sprites have been imaged from the ground, from aircraft and from space, and have become the subject of intensive investigations.\n\nSprites have been observed over North America, Central America, South America, Europe, Central Africa (Zaire), Australia, the Sea of Japan and Asia and are believed to occur during most large thunderstorm systems.\n\nThree types of sprites have been categorized by Matthew 'Geoff' McHarg Ph.D. (U.AK) of the US Air Force Research Academy (and NASA). Using an image intensifier on the front of super slow motion camera McHarg and his researchers have named the sprites based on their visual appearance.\n\nSprites are colored reddish-orange in their upper regions, with bluish hanging tendrils below, and can be preceded by a reddish halo. They last longer than normal lower stratospheric discharges, which last typically a few milliseconds, and are usually triggered by the discharges of positive lightning between the thundercloud and the ground, although sprites generated by negative ground flashes have also been observed. They often occur in clusters of two or more, and typically span the altitude range , with what appear to be tendrils hanging below, and branches reaching above.\nOptical imaging using a 10,000 frame-per-second high speed camera shows that sprites are actually clusters of small, decameter-sized () balls of ionization that are launched at an altitude of about and then move downward at speeds of up to ten percent the speed of light, followed a few milliseconds later by a separate set of upward moving balls of ionization. Sprites may be horizontally displaced by up to from the location of the underlying lightning strike, with a time delay following the lightning that is typically a few milliseconds, but on rare occasions may be up to 100 milliseconds.\nIn order to film sprites from Earth, special conditions must be present: of clear view to a powerful thunderstorm with positive lightning between cloud and ground, red-sensitive recording equipment, and a black unlit sky.\n\nSprites are sometimes preceded, by about 1 millisecond, by a sprite \"halo\", a pancake-shaped region of weak, transient optical emissions approximately across and thick. The halo is centered at about altitude above the initiating lightning strike. These halos are thought to be produced by the same physical process that produces sprites, but for which the ionization is too weak to cross the threshold required for streamer formation. They are sometimes mistaken for ELVES, due to their visual similarity and short duration.\n\nResearch carried out at Stanford University in 2000 indicates that, unlike sprites with bright vertical columnar structure, occurrence of sprite halos is not unusual in association with normal (negative) lightning discharges.\nResearch in 2004 by scientists from Tohoku University found that very low frequency emissions occur at the same time as the sprite, indicating that a discharge within the cloud may generate the sprites.\n\nSprites have been blamed for otherwise unexplained accidents involving high altitude vehicular operations above thunderstorms. One example of this is the malfunction of a NASA stratospheric balloon launched on June 6, 1989 from Palestine, Texas. The balloon suffered an uncommanded payload release while flying at over a thunderstorm near Graham, Texas. Months after the accident, an investigation concluded that a \"bolt of lightning\" traveling upward from the clouds provoked the incident. The attribution of the accident to a sprite was made retroactively, since this term was not coined until late 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41196800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41196800", "title": "Steam and water analysis system", "text": "Steam and water analysis system\n\nSteam and water analysis system (SWAS) is a system dedicated to the analysis of steam or water. In power stations, it is usually used to analyze boiler steam and water to ensure the water used to generate electricity is clean from impurities which can cause corrosion to any metallic surface, such as in boiler and turbine.\n\nCorrosion and erosion are major concerns in thermal power plant operating on steam. The steam reaching the turbines need to be ultra-pure and hence needs to be monitored for its quality. A well designed Steam and Water Analysis system (SWAS) can help in monitoring the critical parameters in the steam. These parameters include pH, conductivity, silica, sodium, dissolved oxygen, phosphate and chlorides. A well designed SWAS must ensure that the sample is representative till the point of analysis. To achieve this, it is important to take care of the following aspects of the sample:\n\nTo ensure that the sample that is going to be extracted for analysis represents the process conditions exactly, it is important to choose the correct sample extraction probe. The validity of the analysis is largely dependent on the sample being truly representative. As the probe is going to be directly attached to the process pipe work, it may have to withstand severe conditions.For most applications, the sample probe is manufactured to the stringent codes applicable to high-pressure,high-temperature pipework.\n\nThe selection of right type of probe is a challenge. Its use depends on the process stream parameter to be measured, the required sample flow rate and the location of the sampling point (which is also called the 'tapping point'). An important aspect of the sample extraction probe design is that the steam must enter the probe at the same velocity as the steam flowing in the pipeline from where sample (it can be steam or water) is extracted.\n\nWhile transporting the sample, it is important that the sample meets least resistance. Hence joints and bends in the pipeline need to be minimal.\n\nSample conditioning system in some countries is also called \"sampling system\", \"Wet Panel\" or \"Wet Rack\". This is intended to house various components for sample conditioning. This may be an open rack or a closed enclosure with a corridor in between. The system contains sample conditioning equipment and a grab sampling sink. In this system stage, sample is first cooled in Sample Coolers, depressurized in Pressure Regulator and then fed to various analyzers while the flow characteristics is kept constant by means of Back Pressure Regulator.\n\nThe need to condition the sample exists, because the sensors used for online analysis are not able to handle the water/steam sample at high temperatures or pressures. To maintain a common reference of analysis, the sample analysis should be done at 25 °C. However, due to temperature compensation logic being available in most of the analyzers today, it is a practice to cool the sample to 25–40 °C. with the help of a well engineered sample conditioning system and then feed the conditioned sample to the analyzers.\n\nHowever, if an uncompensated sample is to be analyzed, it becomes essential to cool the sample to 25 °C +/- 1 °C. This can be achieved by two-stage cooling. In the first stage cooling (also known as 'primary cooling'), the sample is cooled by using available cooling water. In most of the countries, cooling water is available in the range of 30–32 °C. This cooling water can cool the sample unto 35 °C(considering an approach temperature of 3 to 5 °C). A sample cooler is used to achieve this. Sample cooler is a heat exchanger specially designed for SWAS applications. Preferred sample cooler for primary cooling is a double helix coil in shell type design providing contraflow heat exchange.\n\nThe remaining part of cooling (i.e. from 35 to 25 °C) is achieved by using chilled water in the secondary cooling circuit. A chilled water supply is required from the plant or else an independent chiller package can be considered for this purpose along with SWAS.\n\nThe sampling system can be an 'open-frame free standing' type design or a fully or partially closed design, depending on the choice of the user, the environment it is supposed to operate in & the criticality of operation.\n\nIn the sampling system, sample coolers play a major role in bringing down the temperature of hot steam (or water) to a temperature acceptable to the sensors of the on-line analyser. Some of the important design aspects of sample coolers are:\n\nAfter the sample is cooled, the pressure of the sample must be reduced to meet the requirement of the sensors that receive this sample. Usually, the sensors like pH, conductivity, silica, sodium, and hydrazine require low pressure sample for healthy operation.\n\nA rod-in-tube type pressure reducer is the most effective method of pressure reduction. As per the latest technology, a variable rod-in-tube pressure reducer with thermal and safety relief valve device (VRTS) is considered to be the most reliable and safe device. Variable Rod in Tube System (VRTS) is a system in itself that takes care of some important aspects of sample conditioning. The pressure reducer in the VRTS is rated for high temperature up to 550 Deg C and high pressure. There is no need of filters before the VRTS, as cleaning is on-line, without using any tools. For maintenance, no-shut-down is required. Cleaning can be done simply by rotating knob for 20 turns and re-applying the pressure. During high temperature cut-off, the operator can collect the sample through separate port. It's an energy saving device as it operates without any external electrical power. There is built-in safety for the operator, as a safety valve is built-in with the system.\n\nA sample analysis system in some countries is also called \"Analyser Panel\", \"Dry Panel\" or \"Dry Rack\". It is usually a free-standing enclosed panel. The system contains the transmitter electronics, usually it is mounted on panels. In this system stage, sample is analyzed on its pH, conductivity, silica, phosphate, chloride, dissolved oxygen, hydrazine, sodium etc.\n\nThree types of conductivity measurement are usually done:\n\nThere is a difference between these three types of measurements.\n\nWhen it comes to safety and efficiency of the steam turbine and boiler in a power plant, silica becomes one of the most critical factors to be monitored. Deposition of various impurities on turbine blades has been identified as one of the most common problems. Various compounds deposit on the turbine blades. Of all these compounds, silica (SiO2) deposits can occur at lower operating pressures also. Therefore silica deposition is quite common in turbines than other types of deposits. Silica usually deposits in the intermediate-pressure and low-pressure sections of the turbine. These deposits are hard to remove, disturb the geometry of turbine blades and ultimately result in vibrations causing imbalance and loss of output from turbine.\n\nOther important area of concern as far as silica deposition is concerned is boiler tube. Silica scale is one of the hardest scale to remove. Because of its low thermal conductivity, a very thin silica deposit can reduce heat transfer considerably, reducing efficiency, leading to hot spots and ultimately ruptures.\n\nBecause of all these issues, it is extremely important to closely monitor silica levels by using on-line silica analyzers that can measure silica levels to a ppb (parts per billion) level.\n\n"}
{"id": "28728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28728", "title": "Superconducting magnetic energy storage", "text": "Superconducting magnetic energy storage\n\nSuperconducting Magnetic Energy Storage (SMES) systems store energy in the magnetic field created by the flow of direct current in a superconducting coil which has been cryogenically cooled to a temperature below its superconducting critical temperature.\n\nA typical SMES system includes three parts: superconducting coil, power conditioning system and cryogenically cooled refrigerator. Once the superconducting coil is charged, the current will not decay and the magnetic energy can be stored indefinitely.\n\nThe stored energy can be released back to the network by discharging the coil. The power conditioning system uses an inverter/rectifier to transform alternating current (AC) power to direct current or convert DC back to AC power. The inverter/rectifier accounts for about 2–3% energy loss in each direction. SMES loses the least amount of electricity in the energy storage process compared to other methods of storing energy. SMES systems are highly efficient; the round-trip efficiency is greater than 95%.\n\nDue to the energy requirements of refrigeration and the high cost of superconducting wire, SMES is currently used for short duration energy storage. Therefore, SMES is most commonly devoted to improving power quality.\n\nThere are several reasons for using superconducting magnetic energy storage instead of other energy storage methods. The most important advantage of SMES is that the time delay during charge and discharge is quite short. Power is available almost instantaneously and very high power output can be provided for a brief period of time. Other energy storage methods, such as pumped hydro or compressed air, have a substantial time delay associated with the energy conversion of stored mechanical energy back into electricity. Thus if demand is immediate, SMES is a viable option. Another advantage is that the loss of power is less than other storage methods because electric currents encounter almost no resistance. Additionally the main parts in a SMES are motionless, which results in high reliability.\n\nThere are several small SMES units available for commercial use and several larger test bed projects. Several 1 MW·h units are used for power quality control in installations around the world, especially to provide power quality at manufacturing plants requiring ultra-clean power, such as microchip fabrication facilities.\n\nThese facilities have also been used to provide grid stability in distribution systems. SMES is also used in utility applications. In northern Wisconsin, a string of distributed SMES units were deployed to enhance stability of a transmission loop. The transmission line is subject to large, sudden load changes due to the operation of a paper mill, with the potential for uncontrolled fluctuations and voltage collapse.\n\nThe Engineering Test Model is a large SMES with a capacity of approximately 20 MW·h, capable of providing 40 MW of power for 30 minutes or 10 MW of power for 2 hours.\n\nThe magnetic energy stored by a coil carrying a current is given by one half of the inductance of the coil times the square of the current.\n\nWhere \n\nNow let’s consider a cylindrical coil with conductors of a rectangular cross section. The mean radius of coil is \"R\". \"a\" and \"b\" are width and depth of the conductor. \"f\" is called form function which is different for different shapes of coil. \"ξ\" (xi) and \"δ\" (delta) are two parameters to characterize the dimensions of the coil. We can therefore write the magnetic energy stored in such a cylindrical coil as shown below. This energy is a function of coil dimensions, number of turns and carrying current.\n\nWhere \n\nBesides the properties of the wire, the configuration of the coil itself is an important issue from a mechanical engineering aspect. There are three factors which affect the design and the shape of the coil - they are: Inferior strain tolerance, thermal contraction upon cooling and Lorentz forces in a charged coil. Among them, the strain tolerance is crucial not because of any electrical effect, but because it determines how much structural material is needed to keep the SMES from breaking. For small SMES systems, the optimistic value of 0.3% strain tolerance is selected. Toroidal geometry can help to lessen the external magnetic forces and therefore reduces the size of mechanical support needed. Also, due to the low external magnetic field, toroidal SMES can be located near a utility or customer load.\n\nFor small SMES, solenoids are usually used because they are easy to coil and no pre-compression is needed. In toroidal SMES, the coil is always under compression by the outer hoops and two disks, one of which is on the top and the other is on the bottom to avoid breakage. Currently, there is little need for toroidal geometry for small SMES, but as the size increases, mechanical forces become more important and the toroidal coil is needed.\n\nThe older large SMES concepts usually featured a low aspect ratio solenoid approximately 100 m in diameter buried in earth. At the low extreme of size is the concept of micro-SMES solenoids, for energy storage range near 1 MJ.\n\nUnder steady state conditions and in the superconducting state, the coil resistance is negligible. However, the refrigerator necessary to keep the superconductor cool requires electric power and this refrigeration energy must be considered when evaluating the efficiency of SMES as an energy storage device.\n\nAlthough the high-temperature superconductor (HTSC) has higher critical temperature, flux lattice melting takes place in moderate magnetic fields around a temperature lower than this critical temperature. The heat loads that must be removed by the cooling system include conduction through the support system, radiation from warmer to colder surfaces, AC losses in the conductor (during charge and discharge), and losses from the cold–to-warm power leads that connect the cold coil to the power conditioning system. Conduction and radiation losses are minimized by proper design of thermal surfaces. Lead losses can be minimized by good design of the leads. AC losses depend on the design of the conductor, the duty cycle of the device and the power rating.\n\nThe refrigeration requirements for HTSC and low-temperature superconductor (LTSC) toroidal coils for the baseline temperatures of 77 K, 20 K, and 4.2 K, increases in that order. The refrigeration requirements here is defined as electrical power to operate the refrigeration system. As the stored energy increases by a factor of 100, refrigeration cost only goes up by a factor of 20. Also, the savings in refrigeration for an HTSC system is larger (by 60% to 70%) than for an LTSC systems.\n\nWhether HTSC or LTSC systems are more economical depends because there are other major components determining the cost of SMES: Conductor consisting of superconductor and copper stabilizer and cold support are major costs in themselves. They must be judged with the overall efficiency and cost of the device. Other components, such as vacuum vessel insulation, has been shown to be a small part compared to the large coil cost. The combined costs of conductors, structure and refrigerator for toroidal coils are dominated by the cost of the superconductor. The same trend is true for solenoid coils. HTSC coils cost more than LTSC coils by a factor of 2 to 4. We expect to see a cheaper cost for HTSC due to lower refrigeration requirements but this is not the case. So, why is the HTSC system more expensive?\n\nTo gain some insight consider a breakdown by major components of both HTSC and LTSC coils corresponding to three typical stored energy levels, 2, 20 and 200 MW·h. The conductor cost dominates the three costs for all HTSC cases and is particularly important at small sizes. The principal reason lies in the comparative current density of LTSC and HTSC materials. The critical current of HTSC wire is lower than LTSC wire generally in the operating magnetic field, about 5 to 10 teslas (T). Assume the wire costs are the same by weight. Because HTSC wire has lower (\"J\") value than LTSC wire, it will take much more wire to create the same inductance. Therefore, the cost of wire is much higher than LTSC wire. Also, as the SMES size goes up from 2 to 20 to 200 MW·h, the LTSC conductor cost also goes up about a factor of 10 at each step. The HTSC conductor cost rises a little slower but is still by far the costliest item.\n\nThe structure costs of either HTSC or LTSC go up uniformly (a factor of 10) with each step from 2 to 20 to 200 MW·h. But HTSC structure cost is higher because the strain tolerance of the HTSC (ceramics cannot carry much tensile load) is less than LTSC, such as NbTi or NbSn, which demands more structure materials. Thus, in the very large cases, the HTSC cost can not be offset by simply reducing the coil size at a higher magnetic field.\n\nIt is worth noting here that the refrigerator cost in all cases is so small that there is very little percentage savings associated with reduced refrigeration demands at high temperature. This means that if a HTSC, BSCCO for instance, works better at a low temperature, say 20K, it will certainly be operated there. For very small SMES, the reduced refrigerator cost will have a more significant positive impact. \nClearly, the volume of superconducting coils increases with the stored energy. Also, we can see that the LTSC torus maximum diameter is always smaller for a HTSC magnet than LTSC due to higher magnetic field operation. In the case of solenoid coils, the height or length is also smaller for HTSC coils, but still much higher than in a toroidal geometry (due to low external magnetic field).\n\nAn increase in peak magnetic field yields a reduction in both volume (higher energy density) and cost (reduced conductor length). Smaller volume means higher energy density and cost is reduced due to the decrease of the conductor length. There is an optimum value of the peak magnetic field, about 7 T in this case. If the field is increased past the optimum, further volume reductions are possible with minimal increase in cost. The limit to which the field can be increased is usually not economic but physical and it relates to the impossibility of bringing the inner legs of the toroid any closer together and still leave room for the bucking cylinder.\n\nThe superconductor material is a key issue for SMES. Superconductor development efforts focus on increasing Jc and strain range and on reducing the wire manufacturing cost.\n\nThe energy content of current SMES systems is usually quite small. Methods to increase the energy stored in SMES often resort to large-scale storage units. As with other superconducting applications, cryogenics are a necessity. A robust mechanical structure is usually required to contain the very large Lorentz forces generated by and on the magnet coils. The dominant cost for SMES is the superconductor, followed by the cooling system and the rest of the mechanical structure.\n\n\nSeveral issues at the onset of the technology have hindered its proliferation:\nThese still pose problems for superconducting applications but are improving over time. Advances have been made in the performance of superconducting materials. Furthermore, the reliability and efficiency of refrigeration systems has improved significantly.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20037433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20037433", "title": "Temperature-programmed reduction", "text": "Temperature-programmed reduction\n\nTemperature-programmed reduction (TPR) is a technique for the characterization of solid materials and is often used in the field of heterogeneous catalysis to find the most efficient reduction conditions, an oxidized catalyst precursor is submitted to a programmed temperature rise while a reducing gas mixture is flowed over it. It was developed by John Ward Jenkins whilst developing heterogeneous catalysts for Shell Oil company, but was never patented.\n\nA simple container (U-tube) is filled with a solid or catalyst. This sample vessel is positioned in a furnace with temperature control equipment. A thermocouple is placed in the solid for temperature measurement. The air originally present in the container is flushed out with an inert gas (nitrogen, argon). Flow controllers are used to add hydrogen (for example, 10 Vol -% hydrogen in nitrogen). The composition of the gaseous mixture is measured at the exit of the sample container with appropriate detectors (thermal conductivity detector, mass spectrometer). Now, the sample in the oven is heated up on predefined values. Heating values are usually between 1 K/min and 20K/min. If a reduction takes place at a certain temperature, hydrogen is consumed, which is recorded by the detector. In practice the production of water is a more accurate way of measuring the reduction. This is due to the potential for varying hydrogen concentrations at the inlet, so the decrease in this number may not be precise, however as the starting concentration of water will be zero, any increase can be measured more accurately.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1163133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163133", "title": "Tranmere Oil Terminal", "text": "Tranmere Oil Terminal\n\nTranmere Oil Terminal is situated on the River Mersey, south of Birkenhead. It was opened on 8 June 1960 to handle vessels of up to 65,000 tons, and is connected to the Stanlow Oil Refinery by a pipeline. Part of the terminal occupies the site of a former ferry service to Liverpool, with the extant pier considerably modified.\n\nBy 2001, the terminal had two converted crude oil tanks which could handle . These were used for the storage of crude oil from the Foinaven oilfield.\n\nThe terminal is operated by the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "22382166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22382166", "title": "Tuberculostearic acid", "text": "Tuberculostearic acid\n\nTuberculostearic acid is a saturated fatty acid produced by Actinomycetales bacteria.\nThe name 'Tuberculostearic acid' was coined because it was first isolated in 1927 from the bacteria \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7449188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7449188", "title": "Vibrator (electronic)", "text": "Vibrator (electronic)\n\nIn electronics before the development of switch-mode power supplies and the introduction of semiconductor devices operating off low voltage, there was a requirement to generate voltages of about 50 to 250V DC from vehicle batteries. Electromechanical components known as vibrators were used in a circuit similar to modern solid state inverter circuits to provide a pulsating DC which could be converted to a higher voltage with a transformer, rectified, and filtered to create higher-voltage DC. This \"vibrator\" is essentially a relay using normally closed contacts to supply power to the relay coil, thus immediately breaking the connection, only to be reconnected very quickly through the normally closed contacts. It happens so rapidly it vibrates, and sounds like a buzzer. This same rapidly pulsing contact applies the rising and falling DC voltage to the transformer which can step it up to a higher voltage.\n\nThe primary use for this type of circuit was to operate vacuum tube radios in vehicles, but it also saw use with other mobile electronic devices with a 6 or 12V accumulator, especially in places with no mains electricity supply such as farms. These vibrator power supplies became popular in the 1940s, replacing more bulky motor-generator systems for the generation of AC voltages for such applications. Vacuum tubes require plate voltages ranging from about 45 volts to 250 volts in electronic devices such as radios. For portable radios, hearing aids and similar equipment, \"B batteries\" were manufactured with various voltage ratings. In order to provide the necessary voltage for a radio from the typical 6 or 12 volt DC supply available in a car or from a farm lighting battery, it was necessary to convert the steady DC supply to a pulsating DC and use a transformer to increase the voltage.\n\nVibrators often experienced mechanical malfunctions, being constantly in motion, such as the springs losing tension, and the contact points wearing down. As tubes began to be replaced by transistor based electrical systems, the need to generate such high voltages began to diminish. Mechanical vibrators fell out of production near the end of the 20th century, but solid-state electronic vibrators are still manufactured to be backwards compatible with older units.\n\nThe vibrator was a device with switch contacts mounted at the ends of flexible metal strips. In operation, these strips are vibrated by an electromagnet, causing the contacts to open and close rapidly. The contacts interrupt the 6 or 12V direct current from the battery to form a stream of pulses which change back and forth from 0 volts to the battery voltage, effectively generating a square wave. Unlike a steady direct current, when such a pulsating current is applied to the primary winding of a transformer it will induce an alternating current in the secondary winding, at a pre-determined voltage based on the turn ratio of the windings. This current can then be rectified by a thermionic diode or copper-oxide or selenium rectifier, or by an additional set of mechanical contacts (in which case the vibrator acts as a type of synchronous rectifier). The rectified output is then filtered, ultimately producing a DC voltage typically much higher than the battery voltage, with some losses dissipated as heat. This arrangement is essentially an electromechanical inverter circuit.\n\nSince vibrators wore out over time, they were usually encased in a steel or aluminum \"tin can\" enclosure with a multi-pin plug at the bottom (similar to the contact pins on vacuum tubes), so they could be quickly unplugged and replaced without using tools.\n\nVibrators generate a certain amount of audible noise (a constant buzzing sound) while in operation, which could potentially be heard by passengers in the car while the radio was on. To help contain this sound within the vibrator's enclosure, the inside surface of the can was often lined with a thick sound-deadening material, such as foam rubber. Since vibrators were typically plugged into sockets mounted directly on the radio chassis, the vibration could potentially be mechanically coupled to the chassis, causing it to act as a sounding-board for the noise. To prevent this, the sound-deadening lining inside the can was sometimes made thick enough to support the vibrator's components by friction alone. The components were then connected to the plug pins by flexible wires, to further isolate the vibration from the plug.\n\n"}
{"id": "34034699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34034699", "title": "VinyLoop", "text": "VinyLoop\n\nVinyLoop is a proprietary physical plastic recycling process for polyvinyl chloride (PVC). It is based on dissolution in order to separate PVC from other materials or impurities.\n\nA major factor of the recycling of polyvinyl chloride waste is the purity of the recycled material. In most composite materials, PVC is among several other materials, such as wood, metal, or textile. To make new products from the recycled PVC, it is necessary to separate it from other materials. Traditional recycling methods are not sufficient and expensive because this separation has to be done manually and product by product.\n\nVinyLoop is a recycling process which separates PVC from other materials through a process of dissolution, filtration and separation of contamination. A solvent is used in a closed loop to elute PVC from the waste. This makes it possible to recycle composite structure PVC waste, which would normally be incinerated or put in a landfill site.\n\nThe process consists of the following steps:\n\n\nPossible products made from recycled PVC are coatings for waterproofing membranes, pond foils, shoe soles, hoses, diaphragms tunnel, coated fabrics, and PVC sheets. It is an attempt to solve the recycling waste problem of PVC products.\n\nVinyLoop-based recycled PVC's primary energy demand is 46 percent lower than conventional produced PVC. The global warming potential is 39 percent lower.\n\nThe VinyLoop process has been selected to recycle membranes of different temporary venues of the London Olympics 2012. Roofing covers of the Olympic Stadium, the Water Polo Arena, the London Aquatics Centre and the Royal Artillery Barracks will be deconstructed and a part will be recycled in the VinyLoop process.\n\nSince the process could not remove low molecular weight pthalate plasticizers during recycling, tightening EU regulations meant the recycling plant based in Ferrara, Italy has closed as of 28th June 2018.\n"}
{"id": "3156532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3156532", "title": "Zinc dithiophosphate", "text": "Zinc dithiophosphate\n\nZinc dialkyldithiophosphates (often referred to as ZDDP) are a family of coordination compounds developed in the 1940s that feature zinc bound to the anion of a dialkyldithiophosphoric acid (e.g., ammonium diethyl dithiophosphate). These uncharged compounds are not salts. They are soluble in nonpolar solvents, and the longer-chain derivatives easily dissolve in mineral and synthetic oils used as lubricants. They come under CAS number . In aftermarket oil additives, the percentage of ZDDP ranges approximately between 2–15%. Zinc dithiophosphates have many names including ZDDP, ZnDTP, and ZDP.\n\nThe main application of ZDDPs are as anti-wear additives in lubricants including greases, hydraulic oils, and motor oils. ZDDPs also act as corrosion inhibitors and antioxidants. They are almost ubiquitous in lubricants, and treatment rates are usually between 600 ppm for modern, energy-conserving low-viscosity oils to 2000 ppm of this additive in some racing oils.\n\nIt has been reported that zinc and phosphorus emissions may damage catalytic converters and standard formulations of lubricating oils for gasoline engines now have reduced amounts of the additive due to the API limiting the concentration of this additive in new API SM and SN oils; however, this affects only 20- and 30-grade \"ILSAC\" oils. Grades 40 and higher have no regulation regarding the concentration of ZDDP, except for diesel oils meeting the API CJ-4 specification which have had the level of zddp reduced slightly, although most diesel Heavy-Duty Engine oils still have a higher concentration of this additive. Crankcase oils with reduced ZDDP have been cited as causing damage to, or failure of, classic/collector car flat-tappet camshafts and lifters which undergo very high boundary layer pressures and/or shear forces at their contact faces, and in other regions such as main bearings, and piston rings and pins. Roller camshafts/followers are more commonly used to reduce camshaft lobe friction in modern engines. There are additives, such as STP(R) Oil Treatment, and some racing oils such as PurOl, Brad Penn, and Valvoline VR-1, which are available in the retail market with the necessary amount of ZDDP for engines using increased valve spring pressures.\n\nVarious mechanisms have been proposed for how ZDDP forms protective tribofilms on solid surfaces. In-situ atomic-force microscopy (AFM) experiments show that the growth of ZDDP tribofilms increases exponentially with both the applied pressure and temperature, consistent with a stress-promoted thermal activation reaction rate model. Subsequently, experiments with negligible solid-solid contact demonstrated that film formation rate depends on the applied shear stress.\n\nWith the formula Zn[(SP(OR)], zinc dithiophosphate features diverse R groups. Typically, R is a branched or linear alkyl between 1-14 carbons in length. Examples include 2-butyl, pentyl, hexyl, 1,3-dimethylbutyl, heptyl, octyl, isooctyl (2-ethylhexyl), 6-methylheptyl, 1-methylpropyl, dodecylphenyl, and others. A mix of zinc dialkyl(C3-C6)dithiophosphates come under CAS number . A list of other examples with their CAS numbers is here.\n\nZinc dithiophosphate are produced in two steps. First phosphorus pentasulfide is treated with suitable alcohols (ROH) to give the dithiophosphoric acid. A wide variety of alcohols can be employed, which allows the lipophilicity of the final zinc product to be fine tuned. The resulting dithiophosphate is then neutralized by adding zinc oxide:\n\nIn Zn[(SP(OR)], the zinc has tetrahedral geometry. This monomeric compound Zn[(SP(OR)] exists in equilibrium with dimers, oligomers, and polymers [Zn[(SP(OR)]] (n > 1). For example, zinc diethyldithiophosphate, Zn[(SP(OEt)], crystallizes as a polymeric solid consisting of linear chains. Reaction of Zn[(SP(OR)] with additional zinc oxide gives rise to the oxygen-centered cluster, ZnO[(SP(OR)], which adopts the structure seen for basic zinc acetate.\n"}
{"id": "43747856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43747856", "title": "Zone axis", "text": "Zone axis\n\nZone axis, a term sometimes used to refer to \"high-symmetry\" orientations in a crystal, most generally refers to \"any\" direction referenced to the direct lattice (as distinct from the reciprocal lattice) of a crystal in three dimensions. It is therefore indexed with direct lattice-indices, instead of with Miller-indices.\n\nHigh-symmetry zone axes through a crystal lattice, in particular, often lie in the direction of tunnels through the crystal between planes of atoms. This is because, as we see below, such zone axis directions generally lie within more than one plane of atoms in the crystal.\n\nCrystal-lattice translational-invariance is described by a set of unit-cell direct-lattice (contra-variant or polar) basis-vectors a, b, c, or in essence by the magnitudes of these vectors (the lattice parameters a, b and c) and the angles between them (namely α between b and c, β between c and a, and γ between a and b). Direct lattice-vectors have components measured in distance units, like meters or Ångstroms.\n\nThese lattice-vectors are \"indexed\" by listing one (often integral) multiplier for each basis-triplet component, generally to be placed between either square [] or angle 〈〉 brackets. Thus the direct lattice-vector s or [u,v,w] is defined as ua+vb+wc. Angle brackets are used when you don't want to refer to a specific lattice vector, but to a symmetrically equivalent class of lattice vectors. In the case of a cubic lattice, for instance, 〈100〉 represents [100], [010] and [001] because each of these vectors is symmetrically equivalent.\n\nThe term zone-axis, more specifically, refers to only the \"direction\" of a direct-space lattice-vector. For example, since the [120] and [240] lattice-vectors share a common direction, their orientations \"both\" correspond the [120]-zone of the crystal. Just as a set of lattice-planes in direct-space corresponds to a reciprocal-lattice vector in the complementary-space of spatial-frequencies and momenta, a \"zone\" is defined as a set of reciprocal-lattice planes in frequency-space that corresponds to a lattice-vector in direct-space.\n\nThe reciprocal-space analog to zone-axis is \"lattice-plane normal\" or \"g-vector direction\". Reciprocal-lattice (one-form or axial) vectors are \"Miller-indexed\" using the reciprocal-lattice basis-triplet (a*, b*, c*) instead, generally between either round () or curly {} brackets. Curly brackets are used when you don't want to refer to a specific reciprocal-lattice vector, but to a symmetrically equivalent class of reciprocal-lattice vectors.\n\nHere as usual a* ≡ b×c/V, b* ≡ c×a/V, and c* ≡ a×b/V, where the unit cell volume is V = a•(b×c). Thus reciprocal-lattice vector g or (h,k,l) = ha*+kb*+lc* has a direction perpendicular to the (hkl) crystallographic plane, and a magnitude g = 1/d equal to the reciprocal of the spacing between (hkl) planes, measured in spatial-frequency units e.g. of cycles per Ångstrom.\n\nA useful and quite general rule of crystallographic \"dual vector spaces in 3D\" is that the condition for a direct lattice-vector [uvw] to have a direction (or zone-axis) perpendicular to the reciprocal lattice-vector [hkl] is simply hu+kv+lw = 0. This is true even if, as is often the case, the basis-vector set used to describe the lattice is not Cartesian.\n\nBy extension, then, a [uvw] zone-axis pattern (ZAP) is a diffraction pattern taken with an incident beam e.g. of electrons, X-rays or neutrons traveling along a lattice direction specified by the zone-axis indices [uvw]. Because of their small wavelength λ, the high energy electrons used in electron microscopes have a very large Ewald sphere radius (1/λ) so that electron diffraction generally \"lights up\" diffraction spots with g-vectors (hkl) that are perpendicular to [uvw], i.e. for which hu+kv+lw=0.\n\nOne result of this, as illustrated in the figure above, is that \"low-index\" zones are generally perpendicular to \"low Miller-index\" lattice-planes, which in turn have small spatial-frequencies (g-values) and hence large lattice-periodicities (d-spacings). Put another way, in electron microscopy if you want your electron beam to be directed down wide (hence easily visible) tunnels between columns of atoms in a crystal, directing the beam down a low-index (and by association high-symmetry) zone axis may help to this end.\n\n\n"}
