{"id": "2548191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548191", "title": "Abraham Afewerki", "text": "Abraham Afewerki\n\nAbraham Afewerki (30 January 1966 – 7 October 2006) was an Eritrean singer, songwriter and music producer. Noted for his unique Tigrinya-based compositions and lyrics, he was one of the most recognised figures among Eritrean musicians and celebrities.\n\nAbraham Afewerki was born in 1966 in Asmara, Eritrea. During the Eritrean War of Independence, Afewerki and his family fled the fighting and lived as refugees in Sudan. He was interested in music from an early age, taking up the harmonica. Afewerki joined the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) at the age of 12, as a member of a cultural troupe which toured areas controlled by the EPLF. He began writing his own songs and music regarding the war, performing them from 1979 onwards.\n\nAbraham moved to Italy, where he learnt to play the krar and continued to write songs in the theme of Eritrean nationalism. After several years, he moved to the United States where he studied for a bachelor's degree with honours.\n\nAbraham’s first release,\"Wegahta\" (\"Sunrise\"), was released in 1991. During the following 15 years, Abraham released two more albums which further propelled his popularity among Eritreans. His songs were popular because his lyrics expressed strong and poetic images of Eritrea’s culture. His song \"Abzelena Alina\" (\"Wherever We Are\") became greatly popular in Eritrea; his socially conscious words and evocative lyrics talked of the bravery of the nation.\n\nIn his final release, entitled Semai (\"Sky\" in Tigrinya), Abraham collaborates with several Eritrean musicians, the result of which was an exquisite sound. Abraham continued to blend his music with jazz, R&B, and Reggae rhythms at the same time maintaining his music’s originality and authenticity. One song from the album, \"Semay Iyu Deretey\" (\"The Sky Is My Limit\"), has become one of the popular songs in Eritrea.\n\nIn 2006, Abraham drowned while swimming in the Red Sea near Massawa. He had returned to Eritrea to produce a film musical. Posthumously, Abraham continues to be held in high regard by his fellow Eritrean artists, who bear much appreciation and respect. His musical influence has also spread to Ethiopia where his music is reproduced by other musicians singing in a different language other than his native Tigrinya.\n\nHe released the following albums in Eritrea:\n"}
{"id": "34310969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34310969", "title": "Abraham of Angamaly", "text": "Abraham of Angamaly\n\nAbraham of Angamaly (, died c. 1597) (Mar Abraham) was the last in the long line of East Syriac bishops sent from the Church of the East to the Saint Thomas Christians of Kerala. He was sent by the East Syriac Patriarch Shemon VII Ishoyahb. In spite of the express approbation of the Pope, he was not welcomed by the Portuguese ecclesiastical authorities.\n\nThe last two East Syriac bishops of Malabar were Joseph Sulaqa and Mar Abraham; both arrived in Malabar after the arrival of the Portuguese.\n\nThere is no doubt that Joseph Sulaqa's appointment was canonical, for he, the brother of the first Chaldean patriarch Shimun VIII Yohannan Sulaqa, was appointed by his successor Abdisho IV Maron and sent out to Malabar. Mar Joseph was sent to India with letters of introduction from the Pope to the Portuguese authorities; he was besides accompanied by Bishop Ambrose, a Dominican and papal commissary to the first patriarch, by his socius Father Anthony, and by Mar Elias Hormaz, Archbishop of Diarbekir. They arrived at Goa about 1563, and were detained at Goa for eighteen months before being allowed to enter the diocese. Proceeding to Cochin they lost Bishop Ambrose; the others travelled through Malabar for two and a half years on foot, visiting every church and detached settlement.\n\nBy 1567, Latin authorities asked him to make enquiries into the conduct and doctrine of the prelate suspected for propagating \"Nestorian error\"; in consequence of this the first provincial council was held and Joseph Sulaqa was sent to Portugal in 1568, thence to Rome, where he died shortly after his arrival.\n\nWhile Joseph Sulaqa was leaving India there arrived from Mesopotamia another bishop named Mar Abraham, sent by Shemon VII Ishoyahb the East Syriac Patriarch. He succeeded in entering Malabar undetected at the appearance of another Chaldean who proclaimed himself a bishop. The people were greatly delighted and received him with applause; he at once set about holding episcopal functions and conferring holy orders, and quietly established himself in the diocese. Later, the Portuguese captured him and sent him to Portugal, but during the journey he escaped at Mozambique, found his way back to Mesopotamia, and went straight to Mar Abdisho IV Maron, the Chaldean Patriarch, having realized from his Indian experience that, unless he secured a nomination from him, it would be difficult to establish himself in Malabar. He succeeded admirably, obtained nomination, consecration, and a letter from the patriarch to the pope. With this he proceeded to Rome, and in an audience with the Pope disclosed his position. The Pope ordered the Bishop of San Severino to give him orders from tonsure to priesthood, and a Brief was sent to the Patriarch of Venice to consecrate him a bishop. The facts are attested, both as to the minor orders and the episcopal consecration, by the original letters found in the archives of the Church of Angamaly, where he resided and where he died.\n\nAbraham succeeded also in obtaining his nomination as Archbishop of Angamaly from Pope Pius IV, with letters to the Archbishop of Goa and the Bishop of Cochin dated 27 February 1565.\n\nOn arrival at Goa, he was detained in a convent, but escaped and entered Malabar. His arrival was a surprise and a joy to the people. He kept out of the reach of the Portuguese, living among the churches in the hilly parts of the country. In time he was left in peaceful occupation. As is usual in such cases the old tendencies assumed once more their ascendency, and he returned to his teaching and practices, Complaints were made by Jesuits; Rome sent warnings to Abraham to allow Catholic doctrine to be preached and taught to his people. At one time he took the warning seriously to his heart. In 1583 Father Valignano, then Superior of the Jesuit Missions, devised a means of forcing a reform. He persuaded Mar Abraham to assemble a synod, convening the clergy and the chiefs of the laity. He also prepared a profession of faith which was to be made publicly by the bishop and all present. Moreover, urgent reforms were sanctioned and agreed to. A letter was sent by Pope Gregory XIII on 28 November 1578, laying down what Abraham had to do for the improvement of his diocese; after the synod, Abraham sent a long letter to the pope in reply, specifying all that he had been able to do by the aid of the Fathers. This is called the first reconciliation of the Syrians to the Church. It was formal and public, but left no improvement on the general body, the liturgical books were not corrected nor was Catholic teaching introduced in the Church.\n\nAfter his escape from Portuguese detention in Goa, Mar Abraham returned to Angamaly in 1570. In the same year, he built his first cathedral church dedicated to Rabban Hormizd, a seventh century Abbot of the East Syriac Church, as its patron. In 1578, as a response to the requests made by Jesuit missionaries who had been working in Angamaly and in the other centres of the Saint Thomas Christians, the pope granted plenary indulgences to the Church of Rabban Hormizd, which the faithful could obtain four times a year for 25 years from the year of the election of Metropolitan Mar Abraham. The indulgences covered two feasts of the Patron Rabban Hormizd that fell on the fifteenth day after Easter (Monday) and on the first of September. On 15 August 1579, as requested by Mar Abraham, the Jesuits laid the foundation stone of a new cathedral namely \"Rabban Hormizd\" in the same place chosen by the Metropolitan. The Synod of Diamper of the year 1599, prohibited the Christians from commemorating the feast of Rabban Hormizd, since Rabban Hormizd was considered a Nestorian heretic by the Latin missionaries. Session 3, Canon 14 of the Synod severely condemned Rabban Hormizd. According to the new regulations, the Synod commanded as planned by Archbishop Menezes that the Christians celebrate the feast of St. Hormizd, the Martyr (according to the Roman Martyrology published from Rome in 1583), a Persian Catholic saint who lived in the fifth century, suppressing the memory of Rabban Hormizd. The Feast was fixed on 8 August according to the Canon 10 of the Session 2 of the Synod of Diamper.\n\nThe efforts of Archbishop Menezes and the Portuguese missionaries to replace Rabban Hormizd as patron of St. Hormizd church with St. Hormizd the martyr is an instance of sixteenth-century attempts at forced Latinization. It is doubtful whether the Christians immediately accepted this change of patronship. Bishop Francis Ros, the first Latin bishop of the Saint Thomas Christians, attempted to get the decree of the Synod of Diamper accepted with the Second Synod of Angamaly that he convoked in December 1603. St. Hormizd, the Martyr of Persia, is a historical person who lived in the fifth century in Persia.\n\nIn 1595, Mar Abraham fell dangerously ill but recovered. In 1597 he again became dangerously ill. Archbishop Aleixo de Menezes wrote and exhorted him to reform his people, but for answer only got frivolous excuses. He would not even avail himself of the exhortations of the Fathers who surrounded his bed, nor did he receive the last sacraments. Thus he died in January 1597. The viceroy made known his death to Archbishop Menezes, then absent on a visitation tour, by letter of 6 Feb. 1597. The Archdeacon during the first part of the reign of Mar Abraham was George of Christ, who was on friendly terms with the Latin missionaries and was to be appointed the successor of Mar Abraham as Metropolitan of India. Thus he should have become, according to the plans of Mar Abraham, supported by the Jesuits, the first indigenous Chaldaean Metropolitan of the St Thomas Christians. However, the last letter of Mar Abraham, in which he requests the Pope to confirm George’s ordination as Bishop of Palur and his successor, is dated 13 January 1584, while from another letter of the same Mar Abraham we learn that the consecration of George failed because of the latter’s death.\n\nThe tomb of Mar Abraham was discovered in September 2015, in the sanctuary of St. Hormizd Church in Angamaly on the occasion of the renovation of the church. This church has witnessed many of the revolutions of the Christians of St. Thomas in the past against the new Latin hierarchy imposed upon them after the Synod of Diamper. The Christians used to assemble around the tomb in order to discuss important matters and to adopt resolutions concerning their future proceedings. One of the resolutions at the tomb of Mar Abraham was made by all the Christians, immediately after his death in 1597. The second resolution was made in 1601, by about 200 Christians who withdrew their obedience to Francis Ros, S.J, the first Latin bishop of Angamaly. A committee was appointed by Major Archbishop Cardinal George Alencherry, at a meeting of Syro-Malabar Church Historians and Ecclesiastical Dignitaries held at Kochi to decide on the investigation, protection, and preservation of the tomb. The committee consisted of Fr. Kuriakose Mundadan, Vicar and Rector of the Angamaly Basilica, Fr. Ignatius Payyappilly, Fr. Peter Kannampuzha (Executive Director of LRC), Prof. George Menachery, and Dr. Jomon Thachil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2673741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673741", "title": "Alexander Carmichael Bruce", "text": "Alexander Carmichael Bruce\n\nSir Alexander Carmichael Bruce (185026 October 1926) was a British barrister who served as the second Assistant Commissioner \"A\" of the London Metropolitan Police, from 1888 to 1914.\n\nBruce was born in Ferryhill, County Durham, the fourth son of Canon David Bruce. He attended Rossall School in Lancashire and then Brasenose College, Oxford, graduating in 1873 and being called to the Bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1875. He practised on the North-Eastern Circuit until 10 December 1884, when he was appointed Assistant Commissioner. He was knighted on 18 July 1903 and retired in 1914.\n\nBruce married Helen Fletcher (later Dame Helen Bruce) in 1876. He lived at 82 Lexham Gardens, Kensington..\n"}
{"id": "38950637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38950637", "title": "Amaury III de Craon", "text": "Amaury III de Craon\n\nAmaury III de Craon (died 1333), Lord of Créon, Mareuil and Sablé, Seneschal of Gascony as well as seneschal of Anjou, Maine and Touraine.\n\nHe was a son of Maurice V of Craon and Mathilde Berthout. In 1313, Amaury III became Seneschal of Gascony, holding the position until 1316. He received a charter in 1315 to build a bastide at Créon, with permission of King Edward II of England. He was appointed as the Seneschal of Gascony from 1320 until 1322. With the creation of Lieutenants-General to protect the borders of the border provinces, King Charles IV of France in 1323, then Philip IV in March 1331, buy successively the hereditary positions of Seneschal of Touraine, Anjou and the Maine from Amaury III.\n\nAmaury died on 26 January 1333, and was buried in the Convent of the Cordeliers, Angers.\n\nCraon married firstly Isabelle, daughter of Guillaume IV le Valet, lord of Ste-Maure, they had the following known issue:\n\nHe married secondly Béatrice, daughter of John IV, Count de Roucy and Jeanne de Dreux, they had the following known issue:\n\n"}
{"id": "8395456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395456", "title": "Astrophilately", "text": "Astrophilately\n\nAstrophilately tells the story of the exploration of outer space with stamps and postmarked envelopes. It is the intersection of space and postal history. Covers cancelled on the date and at a post office near the controlling agency are used in postal exhibits to share the development and conquest of the cosmos.\nTopics of interest include postage stamps, cancellations, and covers connected to various projects. Examples include rocket mail, dating from as early as the 1928, and mail actually carried on space flights, a practice that began with Project Apollo missions, and has continued since then. Specialists distinguish astrophilately from topical collecting with a space theme; astrophilatelic items are those with direct connections to space missions, whether or not they include any special pictorial depiction.\n\nThe Fédération Internationale de Philatélie has a Section for Astrophilately. Included are covers and cards cancelled at launch sites, tracking stations, Mission Control facilities, research laboratories, and recovery ships. Many, though not all, such items have cachets produced for the mission; others are recognizable only with specific knowledge of the postmark location and date corresponding to a launch.\n\nAs with regular airmail, items of mail carried aboard spacecraft are known as \"flown covers\". They are known from both Soviet- and American-flown missions. While some types are rare, others, such as space shuttle covers, were carried in large numbers, and are thus relatively common, costing less than US$50.\n\nPerhaps the most common item of astrophilately is the \"STS-8 flight cover\". In cooperation with the USPS, the shuttle flight STS-8 carried several hundred thousand covers, franked with $9.35 express mail stamps, which were then sold to the public after the shuttle's return. The original plan was to carry 500,000, but the final number was reduced to 261,900, of which 2,523 were damaged during the flight and discarded. The remaining covers were each enclosed in a souvenir folder describing the mission and the cover, and sold for $15.35 each. They were sold out by November 1983, just a few months after the flight.\n\nMuch rarer are the \"Sieger\" covers, carried on Apollo 15. German stamp dealer Hermann Sieger had arranged a deal, in which H. Walter Eierman convinced the Apollo 15 crew members to carry 100 cacheted covers to the moon and back, for the sum of US$7000 each, with the understanding that they would not be sold until after the end of the Apollo program. These covers, along with an additional 300 that the crew would keep for themselves, were stuffed in David Scott's spacesuit pocket, and never listed on the manifest. However, Sieger began selling the covers he received soon after the mission's return, reportedly for $1500 each, and when the whole affair came to light, NASA confiscated the astronauts' 298 surviving covers (two had been destroyed pre-flight), and grounded them permanently. In 1983, hearing of the STS-8 plans, astronaut Alfred Worden sued for the return of the 298 covers, and the crew eventually recovered them. The covers have appeared on the market from time to time since then. In an October 2000 auction, one of the crew covers realized US$14,950.\n\nAstrophilately items may be found in specialised books and catalogues:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11709317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11709317", "title": "BioWeb", "text": "BioWeb\n\nThe BioWeb is the connotation for a network of web-enabled biological devices (e.g. trees, plants, and flowers) which extends an internet of things to the Internet of Living Things of natural sensory devices. The BioWeb devices give insights to real-time ecological data and feedback to changes in the environment. The biodiversity of today is one giant ecological mesh network of information exchange, and a resource humanity should be able to access for a better understanding of the state of our global ecology.\n\nThe BioWeb information technologies emerge from the interdisciplinary fields of biotechnology and nanotechnology. The devices for reading individual ecological systems can be either wireless transmitters implemented into the organic structure of seeds or external inserted network nodes with the ability to read information and wirelessly transmit the information to the Internet (or network). For example, the botanicalls system transmits information obtained from the devices to Twitter which then forwards the messages on via text message.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42940", "title": "Biostasis", "text": "Biostasis\n\nBiostasis is the ability of an organism to tolerate environmental changes without having to actively adapt to them. Biostasis is found in organisms that live in habitats that likely encounter unfavorable living conditions, such as drought, freezing temperatures, change in pH levels, pressure, or temperature. Insects undergo a type of dormancy to survive these conditions, called diapause. Diapause may be obligatory for these insects to survive. The insect may also be able to undergo change prior to the arrival of the initiating event.\n\nBiostasis is also used as a synonym for the terms cryostasis or cryonics. Cryonics is a medical procedure concept that is a well established trope in Science Fiction, that may at some point in the future become a possible option for individuals who are terminally ill. The patients would be frozen in what is known as cryonic suspension. The patients are frozen so that when technology advances both to enable them to be unfrozen and brought back to life but also for their illness to be treated, they can be re-animated and their disease can be cured or treated.\n\nBiostasis is also synonymous for Viable but Nonculturable state. In the past when bacteria were no longer growing on culture media it was assumed that they were dead. Now we can understand that there are many instances where bacteria cells may go into biostasis or suspended animation, fail to grow on media, and on resuscitation are again culturable. It should be noted that VBNC state differs from 'starvation survival state' (where a cell just reduces metabolism significantly). Bacteria cells may enter the VBNC state as a result of some outside stressor such as \"starvation, incubation outside the temperature range of growth, elevated osmotic concentrations (seawater), oxygen concentrations, or exposure to white light\" (9). Any of these instances could very easily mean death for the bacteria if it was not able to enter this state of dormancy. It has also been observed that in may instances where it was thought that bacteria had been destroyed (pasteurization of milk) and later caused spoilage or harmful effects to consumers because the bacteria had entered the VBNC state.\n\nEffects on cells entering the VBNC state include \"dwarfing, changes in metabolic activity, reduced nutrient transport, respiration rates and macromolecular synthesis\". (9) Yet biosynthesis continues, and shock proteins are made. Most importantly has been observed that ATP levels and generation remain high, completely contrary to dying cells which show rapid decreases in generation and retention. Changes to the cell walls of bacteria in the VBNC state have also been observed. In E.coli a large amount of cross-linking was observed in the peptidoglycan. The autolytic capability was also observed to be much higher in VBNC cells than those who where in the growth state.\n\nIt should be noted that is far easier to induce bacteria to the VBNC state and once bacteria cells have entered the VBNC state it is very hard to return them to a culturable state. \"They examined nonculturability and resuscitation in Legionella Pneumophila and while entry into this state was easily induced by nutrient starvation, resuscitation could only be demonstrated following co-incubation of the VBNC cells with the amoeba, Acanthamoeba Castellani\" (9)\n\nFugistasis or mycostasis a naturally occurring VBNC (Viable but Nonculturable) state found in fungi in soil. Watson and Ford defined fungistasis as \"when viable fungal propagules, which are not subject to endogenous or constitutive dormancy do not germinate in soil at their favorable temperature or moisture conditions or growth of fungal hyphae is retarded or terminated by conditions of the soil environment other than temperature or moisture.\" (10). Essentially (and mostly observed naturally occurring in soil) several types of fungi have been found to enter the VBNC state resulting from outside stressors (temperature, available nutrients, oxygen availability ect.) or from no observable stressors at all.\n\nOn March 1, 2018, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) announced their new Biostasis program under the direction of Dr. Tristan McClure-Begley. The aim of the Biostasis program is to develop new possibilities for extending the golden hour in patients who suffered a traumatic injury by slowing down the human body at the cellular level, addressing the need for additional time in continuously operating biological systems faced with catastrophic, life-threatening events. By leveraging molecular biology, the program aims to control the speed at which living systems operate and figure out a way to \"slow life to save life.\"\n\nOn March 20, 2018, the Biostasis team held a Webinar which, along with a Broad Agency Announcement (BAA), solicited five-year research proposals from outside organizations. The full proposals were due on May 22, 2018.\n\nIn their Webinar, DARPA outlined a number of possible research approaches for the Biostasis project. These approaches are based on research into diapause in tardigrades and wood frogs which suggests that selective stabilization of intracellular machinery occurs at the protein level.\n\nIn molecular biology, molecular chaperones are proteins that assist in the folding, unfolding, assembly, or disassembly of other macromolecular structures. Under typical conditions, molecular chaperones facilitate changes in shape (conformational change) of macromolecules in response to changes in environmental factors like temperature, pH, and voltage. By reducing conformational flexibility, scientists can constrain the function of certain proteins. Recent research has shown that proteins are promiscuous, or able to do jobs in addition to the ones they evolved to carry out. Additionally, protein promiscuity plays a key role in the adaptation of species to new environments. It is possible that finding a way to control conformational change in promiscuous proteins could allow scientists to induce biostasis in living organisms.\n\nThe crowdedness of cells is a critical aspect of biological systems. Intracellular crowding refers to the fact that protein function and interaction with water is constrained when the interior of the cell is overcrowded. Intracellular organelles are either membrane-bound vesicles or membrane-less compartments that compartmentalize the cell and enable spatiotemporal control of biological reactions. By introducing these intracellular polymers to a biological system and manipulating the crowdedness of a cell, scientists may be able to slow down the rate of biological reactions in the system.\n\nTardigrades are microscopic animals that are able to enter a state of diapause and survive a remarkable array of environmental stressors, including freezing and desiccation. Research has shown that intrinsically disordered proteins in these organisms may work to stabilize cell function and protect against these extreme environmental stressors. By using peptide engineering, it is possible that scientists may be able to introduce intrinsically disordered proteins to the biological systems of larger animal organisms. This could allow larger animals to enter a state of biostasis similar to that of tardigrades under extreme biological stress.\n\n9. Oliver, James D. \"The viable but nonculturable state in bacteria.\" \"The Journal of Microbiology\" 43.1 (2005): 93-100.\n\n10. Fungistasis and general soil biostasis A new synthesis Paolina Garbeva, W.H. Gera Holb, Aad J. Termorshuizenc, George A. Kowalchuka, Wietse de Boer\n\n11. Watson, A.G., Ford E.J. 1972 Soil Fungistasis -- a reappraisal. Annual Review of Phytopathology 10, 327.\n"}
{"id": "21747579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21747579", "title": "Birth credit", "text": "Birth credit\n\nA \"choice-based, marketable, birth license plan\" or \"birth credits\" for population control has been promoted by urban designer and environmental activist Michael E. Arth since the 1990s. Previous iterations of similar transferable birth licensing schemes can also be traced to economist Kenneth Boulding (1964) and leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly (1991) \n\nArth offers birth credits in the place of solutions to human overpopulation that may take too long (like economic development and traditional family planning), are impractical (like space colonization), or cruel (like forced sterility, genocide, famine, disease, and war).\n\nArth's plan, as described in his books \"The Labors of Hercules\" and \"Democracy and the Common Wealth\", is a way to precisely set human population levels while still preserving choice. Birth credits would allow any woman to have as many children as she wants, as long as she buys a license for any children beyond an average allotment that would result in zero population growth.\n\nIf that allotment was determined to be one child, for example, then the first child would be free, and the market would determine the cost of the license for each additional child. Extra credits would expire after a certain time, so these credits could not be hoarded by speculators. An advantage of the scheme is that the affluent would not buy them because they already limit their family size by choice, as evidenced by an average of 1.1 children per European woman.\n\nAccording to Arth, a woman may collect the value of one credit if and when she decides not to have children. If the desired average number of children is one per woman, then a woman can have one for free. If she has additional children, she will be required to buy one birth credit for each child. The incentive to society is the prevention of an overpopulation-related tragedy of the commons, including an immediate reduction in unwanted children. The incentive to individuals is that their economic and educational levels would tend to rise as there is an inverse relationship between net worth and the number of children one has. As with traffic laws, enforcement of birth credits could be through fines, tax levies, or loss of privileges. \n\nThe scheme would pay for itself by rewarding those who choose not to have children, and charging those that have more than their allotment. The actual cost of the credits to those opting for more than one child would only be a tiny fraction of the actual cost of having and raising a child. Therefore, the credits would serve more as a wake-up call to women who might otherwise produce children without seriously considering the long term consequences to themselves or society.\n\nThe choice-based marketable birth license plan was offered as a way to balance the collective right to live in a world with a sustainable population against the individual right to have as many children as one can commit to raising, while also reducing the number of unwanted or irresponsible births. Some previous attempts to limit population growth in India or China, which appear to have this same intention, have in some cases met resistance because they focused on limiting the number of children that each family may have without taking into account the differences between individuals in the number of children desired. During India's state of emergency between 1975 and 1977, under the direction of the son of then-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi there was reported to be overzealous enforcement of vasectomy and tubal ligation programs in order to meet quotas. The resulting backlash made subsequent family planning efforts more difficult. Also in China, under the One-Child Policy (instituted in 1979 to limit the number of children born to urban dwellers to one child) there were also overzealous officials who were jailed for enforcing sterilization or using forced abortions in order to meet population quotas. \n\n"}
{"id": "1799027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799027", "title": "Blanche II of Navarre", "text": "Blanche II of Navarre\n\nBlanche II of Navarre () (9 June 1424 – 2 December 1464), titular queen of Navarre, was the daughter of John II of Aragon and Blanche I of Navarre. She was also Princess of Asturias by marriage.\n\nBlanche was born on 9 June 1424 in Olite, Navarre.\n\nIn 1427, she, her brother Charles, and her sister Eleanor, were proclaimed the rightful heirs of the kingdom of Navarre. Blanche was promised to the heir of Castile in the peace treaty between Navarre and Castile in 1436. She married Henry IV of Castile in 1440. The marriage was reputedly never consummated.\n\nIn 1453, after thirteen years, Henry sought the annulment of the marriage. An official examination confirmed the virginity of Blanche. A divorce was granted by the Pope on the grounds that some \"witchcraft\" had prevented Henry from consummating the marriage. After this, Blanche was sent home to Navarre, where she was imprisoned by her family: from 1462, she was under the custody of her sister. She remained childless throughout her life.\n\nAfter the death of her brother in 1461, some Navarrese dissatisfied elements and some of the anti-Aragonese party regarded Blanche as the rightful monarch, as they had regarded Charles. They proclaimed her queen. She would have thus become Blanche II of Navarre, had not her father (who wanted to keep the government of Navarre) already had her incarcerated and thus not capable to act.\n\nJohn tried to marry her to Charles, Duke of Berry, and younger brother of Louis XI of France to make an alliance, but Blanche refused, and her act irritated her father John. In 1464, she came back to Pamplona with the help of its bishop Nicolas de Etchabarri, who was murdered shortly after, in order to attend the Courts of Navarre.\n\nShe died by poison in Orthez less than a month later. Both her father and her sister Eleanor are suggested to have been responsible for her death. Upon her death, her rights to Navarre were inherited by her next sister, Eleanor of Aragon, Countess of Foix, who however was their father's ally and supporter, and did not press her own claims until his death in 1479.\n"}
{"id": "2723436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2723436", "title": "Castigation", "text": "Castigation\n\nCastigation (from the Latin \"castigatio\") or chastisement (via the French \"châtiment\") is the infliction of severe (moral or corporal) punishment. One who administers a castigation is a castigator or \"chastiser\". \n\nIn earlier times, castigation specifically meant restoring one to a religiously pure state, called chastity. In ancient Rome, it was also a term for the magistrate called a censor (in the original sense, rather than the later politicized evolution), who castigated in the name of the pagan state religion but with the authority of the 'pious' state.\n\nIn Christian times, this terminology was adopted but roughly restricted to the physical sphere: chastity became a matter of approved sexual conduct, castigation usually meaning physical punishment, either as a form of penance, as a voluntary pious exercise (see mortification of the flesh) or as educational or other coercion, while the use for other (e.g. verbal) punishments (and criticism etc.) is now often perceived as metaphorical.\n\nSelf-castigation is applied by the repentant culprit to himself, for moral and/or religious reasons, notably as penance.\n\n"}
{"id": "42334950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42334950", "title": "Cybathlon", "text": "Cybathlon\n\nThe Cybathlon is an international competition organised by ETH Zurich for disabled competitors allowed to use bionic assistive technology, such as robotic prostheses, brain-computer interfaces and powered exoskeletons. It is the first international competition of this kind, and took place in Zurich, Switzerland, on 8 October 2016. \n\nThe Cybathlon is presented by ETH Zurich and comes out of a collaboration with the Swiss National Center of Competence in Robotics Research, which intends to use the competition to promote the development and widespread use of bionic technology. Whereas other international competitions for disabled athletes, such as the Paralympics, only permit competitors to use unpowered assistive technology, the Cybathlon encourages the use of performance-enhancing technology such as powered exoskeletons. Registration for the Cybathlon opened in October 2014 and is open until 1st May 2016. A rehearsal event was held in Zurich in July 2015, allowing the participating teams to test and assess their robotic assistive technologies.\n\nThe Cybathlon features six disciplines – a Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) bicycle race, a Powered Leg Prosthesis Race, a Powered Wheelchair Race, a Powered Exoskeleton Race, a Powered Arm Prosthesis Race, and a computerised race for competitors with paralysis using brain-computer interfaces to compete in a computer game (BCI Race). The competitors, known as \"pilots\", can use both commercially available bionic technology and lab-developed prototypes. Medals are awarded to both the athletes themselves and to the companies or institutions that create their bionics.\n\nIn 2016, the competition was held in the Swiss city of Kloten, a total of 56 teams from 25 countries took part. Competitions are organized in such a way that the participants can demonstrate not only their own skills, but also the distinctive qualities of bionomic tools. For example, in the category of \"hand prostheses\", competitors attempted several food-related fine motor tasks and in the category \"Neuro\" the participants managed avatars in a specially designed computer game.\n\nThe winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "51984017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51984017", "title": "Death and funeral of Bhumibol Adulyadej", "text": "Death and funeral of Bhumibol Adulyadej\n\nKing Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand died at the age of 88 on 13 October 2016, after a long illness. A year-long period of mourning was subsequently announced. A royal cremation ceremony took place over five days at the end of October 2017. The actual cremation, which was not broadcast on television, was held in the late evening of 26 October 2017. Following cremation his remains and ashes were taken to the Grand Palace and were enshrined at the Chakri Maha Phasat Throne Hall (royal remains), the Royal Cemetery at Wat Ratchabophit and the Wat Bowonniwet Vihara Royal Temple (royal ashes). Following burial, the mourning period officially ended on midnight of 30 October 2017 and Thais have resumed wearing regular colours, while awaiting the future coronation of King Vajiralongkorn, which will be set at a later date.\n\nKing Bhumibol Adulyadej had been treated at Siriraj Hospital since 3 October 2014. The king had a high fever due to sepsis, which improved following antibiotics treatment. Until 28 September 2016, King Bhumibol developed a low grade fever as a consequence of pneumonitis and required further treatment with antibiotics. The king subsequently developed organ failure owing to hypotension and became dependent on hemodialysis due to kidney failure. King Bhumibol's condition became significantly unstable due to evolving acute hepatitis.\n\nThe king died at Siriraj Hospital on 13 October 2016 at 15:52 local time, as announced by the Bureau of the Royal Household on the same date.\n\nOn 14 October 2016, the body of the late king was carried by an autocade from Siriraj Hospital to the Grand Palace. His body left Gate 8 of the hospital around 16:30. As the cortege passed Arun Ammarin Road, Phra Pin Klao Bridge, and Ratchadamnoen Road, crowds of Thais, most clad in black and many openly sobbing, paid homage. Led by Somdej Phra Vanarata (Chun Brahmagutto), the abbot of Wat Bowonniwet Vihara, the autocade entered the palace via Thewaphirom Gate. Upon arrival at the palace, the body was given the bathing rite, presided over by the late king's son, King Vajiralongkorn. The event was live broadcast on television by the television pool of Thailand.\n\nThe general public were allowed to take part in a symbolic bathing rite in front of the king's portrait at Sahathai Samakhom Pavilion within the Grand Palace later that day.\n\nThe king's body lay in state in the Dusit Maha Prasat Throne Hall of the Grand Palace for a period of one year, with daily rites for a period of 100 days. As in the funerals of the king's mother and sister, the king's body was not physically placed in the royal funerary urn (\"kot\") as was customary; instead, the coffin which housed the body was placed behind the pedestal displaying the royal urn. Special rites attended by King Vajiralongkorn were held to mark the 7th, 15th, 50th and 100th days since the king's death. After the 15th day, the public were allowed to pay their respects and attend the lying-in-state in the Grand Palace. By the end of the allowed public attendance on 30 September 2017 (later pushed forward to 5 October the same year), over 12 million people had paid their respects in person, a historic record crowd that, including foreign tourists and expats living in Thailand, broke all-time attendance records and left an estimated 890 million Thai baht in donations for the royal charity activities.\n\nThe foreign dignitaries who attended the lying-in-state or paid respect at the Grand Palace were as follows (by order of their visit):\nSpecial nationwide services in all Buddhist temples together with a general 100th day memorial service were held to mark the 100 day mark since his death on 20 January 2017 with HM King Vajiralongkorn presiding over the national service.\n\nOn 28 February 2017, a special Royal Kong Tek (Gongde) ceremony was held, presided by HM King Vajiralongkorn at the Dusit Maha Prasat Throne Hall and was led by monks from the Thai Chinese Buddhist community in the Bangkok area. The service was in keeping with Chinese Buddhist rites and customs regarding the dead. The Kong Tek ceremony was a Buddhist religious ceremony unique to the Chinese wherein the deceased, together with his personal effects and clothing, was transferred ceremonially to the next life, with special prayers and chants sung by monks. The event was unprecedented since it was the first time such a ritual was held for any member of the Thai royal family in an official capacity.\n\nThe public square Sanam Luang will be used as the cremation ground, where the construction of an elaborate, temporary crematorium was started in early 2017 and was expected to take more than one year to complete. The government granted one billion baht, deducted from central budget, to cover the construction. Once the cremation is over, the crematorium will be torn down.\n\nDesigns for the cremation complex were officially unveiled on 28 October 2016, and a special ceremony was held on 19 December for the royal funeral chariots to be used at the Bangkok National Museum. The construction work for the complex will officially commence on 27 February 2017 with the building of the central column with a September target completion date. The crematorium, when built, will be the biggest, largest and tallest yet since the state cremation rites for King Rama V (Chulalongkorn) in 1911, and unlike past state cremations, will be at the larger northern segment of the Sanam Luang Royal Square instead of the southern segment where cremations were held before.\n\nOn 19 November the Ministry of Culture's Fine Arts Department head Anant Chuchote visited Nakhon Pathom, where the royal funeral urns have been manufactured for centuries out of old sandalwood trees. He asked for public support and assistance for the making of the royal urn alongside 150 artisans from the Traditional Arts Office. The department issued a job hiring call in the middle of January 2017 for prospective workers in the Sanam Luang royal crematorium complex and for the needed chariot repair and upgrading works.\n\nAs of 12 February 2017, the government pavilion and the Buddhist chapel were under construction. Concurrently, the Royal Thai Army began manufacturing a new royal cannon chariot for the state cremation ceremonies, a first after many years, timed to be completed in April 2017 for delivery to the Fine Arts Department of the Ministry of Culture. The designs of the buildings combine both Thai traditional and modern building design and construction methods.\n\nThe construction process for the royal crematiorium (Phra Merumas (Golden Crematorium)) itself commenced with due ceremony on the morning of 27 February 2017 in the Sanam Luang Plaza, in the presence of the Prime Minister of Thailand Gen (ret) Prayut Chan-o-cha. At the right moment, the central steel beam of the building was hoisted using a crane towards its spot in the plaza worksite after a Buddhist blessing was bestowed on it.\n\nBy 1 April, the crematorium complex area had seen construction work faster than the usual practice for royal cremations, with all buildings in the middle of the construction phrase earlier than expected. The FAD had also been tasked to undergo a major design remodeling for the main royal urn to be used in the ceremonies and an October date is expected to be chosen for the events. The cannon chariot which was based on those used in British state and royal funerals was officially finished by the end of the month and delivered to the FAD so that the decoration process can begin in time for their debut in the funeral events later in the year.\n\nThe national cremation in the Sanam Luang Plaza took place on 26 October 2017, 13 days after the 1st anniversary of the King's death. Just as in past state cremations since 1995, a special Khon performance was held in the plaza grounds, organized by The Foundation of the Promotion of Supplementary Occupations and Related Techniques of Her Majesty Queen Sirikit of Thailand (SUPPORT) and the Bunditphatthanasilpa Institute. Given the huge importance of such an event, the official practice runs for this began as early as 15–16 May with the RTA Ordnance Division spearheading the runs simulating the funeral procession of the major chariots at Saraburi province, with two military vehicles to serve as simulators. For the royal puppet show, it was the first ever to feature a woman performer in keeping with the modern age - Ancharika Noosingha, 43 years old, who was the first lady royal puppeter in history, keeping a historic tradition from the Ayutthaya period. The Fine Arts Department Royal Music and Drama Office organized the puppet play and its personnel form part of the cast who will perform on the cremation night.\n\n\"The Nation\" reported on 11 May that the funeral crematorium and the monastic pavilion are almost ready for an early completion, the fastest yet for royal funerals in the modern era, and the prefabrication processes for the decorations to be used in the buildings are at the final stage. At the same time, the sandalwood corn flowers used for state funerals were made to be used by citizens and foreign attendants attending the services, as the kalamet flowers, protected by law, will only be used in the royal crematorium. The practice of making flowers from corn leaves, through, was a modern practice which began in 1925 during the state funeral of King Vajiravudh (Rama VI).\n\nAs of 24 September more than 5,500 people signed up to volunteer to serve during the cremation days. To encourage greater public participation, several Thai provincial capitals had been building replica crematoriums to serve people who cannot be in Bangkok to pay their last respects on the cremation date while both the public and tourists joining the events rode the Bangkok MRT system and the BTS Skytrain lines during the cremation days free of charge, as well as on the public ferries at Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem (Hua Lamphong-Thewarat Market) and Khlong Pasicharoen (Phetchkasem 69-Pratunam Pasicharoen) and the Bangkok BRT. The Ministry of Public Health was expected to deploy huge numbers of medical personnel to serve the public and foreign visitors during these days and provide medical assistance. While social media live reports are prohibited for the TV networks (which broadcast the bilingual coverage of the events via the state Television Pool of Thailand and was aired via satellite and streamed worldwide online in both English and Thai via the official funeral webpage, the RTA Thai Global Network, NBT World and the YouTube channel of Thai PBS, the first time this has ever been done), people will still post live feeds but with difficulty and the national and international press have been given a special media center at the Thammasat University.\n\nIn early August, plans were finalized to open the cremation site for public and tourist visitation after the cremation ceremonies.\n\nForeign Minister Don Pramudwinai said of the 42 countries represented, 24 countries had their royal heads of states, heads of states and royal family members attending the ceremony, and 18 countries will have had their deputy heads of states, government leaders, and special representatives attending the ceremony.\n\n\n\"to be livestreamed both in Thai and English via the official funeral website and FB page, NBT World and the Thai PBS and Channel 9 MCOT HD YouTube pages\"\n\n\n\nThe government declared a year-long mourning period for Bhumibol. Citizens were asked to refrain from participating in \"joyful events\" and entertainment for 30 days following his death; as a result, a number of events, including sports (such as the Thai League football season, which ended entirely), were cancelled or postponed. Entertainment outlets such as cinemas, nightclubs and theatres announced that they would shut down or operate under reduced hours during this period. The mourning period prompted concerns from Thailand's tourism industry, which felt that the mood of the country, as well as the cancelled events, would reduce interest in visiting Thailand.\nUpon the announcement of his death, all television channels suspended regular programming and simulcast special programmes from the television pool of Thailand, which consisted of monochrome videos and photos of Bhumibol, and coverage of royal events. International channels were also blacked out and replaced by this programming. Following the funeral procession on 14 October 2016, the channels continued to air the pooled tribute content until midnight local time, after which they were allowed to resume regular programming. However, for the remainder of the 30-day mourning period, all broadcasters were forbidden from broadcasting programmes that featured \"any element of entertainment, dancing, joy, violence, impoliteness or overly expressed emotion\", nor any non-official information, speculation or criticism related to the deceased King and his successor. Most Thai media outlets and websites switched to greyscale colour schemes as well. After a brief return to monochrome for the King's 1st death anniversary on 13 October 2017, colour television broadcasts, with the same restrictions are before, resumed on 19 October the same year.\n\nOut of respect for the mourning, many Thai malls, including all Central Pattana and The Mall Group properties, chose not to install extensive Christmas displays and decorations for the holiday season. Some installed memorials to Bhumibol instead.\n\nSince the death of the king, ultra-royalists in Thailand have criticized and harassed those who did not wear mourning black. They also subjected to witch-hunts people whom they accused of disrespecting the deceased monarch. On 14 October 2016, angry ultra-royalist groups in Phuket Province thronged the residence of a man who posted on social media a number of comments which they thought offensive to the late king and violated the \"lèse-majesté\" law, despite the local police having declared that the comments were not in breach of the law. The groups dispersed after the police agreed to prosecute the man for the crime of \"lèse-majesté\". Similar incidents happened on the following day in Phang Nga Province.\n\nIn November 2016, Nangrong School in Buriram Province seized colourful winter jackets from students and required them to wear those in mourning colours only. The students were reportedly distressed to lose their jackets due to the cold weather, and many did not own multiple warm articles of clothing.\n\nOn 28 November, the director of a public school in Ranong Province was removed from office for not wearing mourning black on her first day at work.\n\nThe National Council for Peace and Order, the junta ruling Thailand, also announced after the death of Bhumibol that it will hunt down \"lèse-majesté\" fugitives.\n\n"}
{"id": "47108602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47108602", "title": "Death of Liliana Barbarita Cepeda", "text": "Death of Liliana Barbarita Cepeda\n\nThe Death of Liliana Barbarita Cepeda was a child's death that caused commotion in Puerto Rico during 1997. Investigations into the case caused confusion among the general public, because at first it had been claimed by Puerto Rican police that Cepeda had been raped and murdered, then it was alleged that she died accidentally.\n\nLiliana Barbara \"Barbarita\" Cepeda Casado (1990–1997) was a young Puerto Rican girl of African descent.\n\nOn April 30, 2013, she was, along with Lorenzo Gonzalez Cacho and several other children who have disappeared or died violent deaths in Puerto Rico, remembered at Puerto Rico's Capitol, during a ceremony to promote reduction of mistreatment of minors in Puerto Rico.\n\nLiliana Barbarita Cepeda Casado was with her family enjoying a day at the beach swimming on June 8, 1997, when she first disappeared at Escambron Beach in San Juan. People began looking for her all over the beach and under water.\n\nHer body was found on June 9, in the basement of an abandoned building that hosted what was once an Olympic-sized swimming pool used for the 1979 Pan American Games water competitions.\n\nInitially it was said that she had been raped, beaten and murdered. Days after that announcement, however, police recanted, declaring her death as an accidental one. During a press conference, Police chief Pedro Toledo discussed that her 11 year old brother allegedly admitted that she had fallen to her death as she was playing with him and that, afraid of the consequences this could bring him, her brother claimed she was kidnapped. Toledo later held another press conference, where he admitted his comments could have been misleading. \"At that time, I understood that we had to put an end to the hysteria (surrounding the case)\" Toledo told the press that day.\n\nOn November 16, 1998, Jose Luis Ortiz Vega, Barbarita's stepfather and Eugenio J. Rodriguez Galindo were arrested and charged with the kidnapping and murder of Cepeda Casado. During a preliminary court hearing on December 16 of that year, it was determined there was probable cause to accuse the two of first degree murder and of kidnapping, in addition to gun law violations. A third man, named Eliezer Santana Baez, testified he had witnessed some of what the other two men had been accused of doing. Santana Baez, however, had also declared that he was not there when Cepeda Casado died and that he had been coerced to lie by authorities.\n\nIt was later argued by the two accused men's defense that some of the evidence offered by prosecution had been in the hands of the public ministry and that they had not been handed to defense until the day of a hearing, 15 January 1999, and as such, the accusations should be discarded. These motions were later dismissed by jury.\n\nSix months after being jailed in 1998, both Ortiz Vega and Rodriguez Galindo had to be released due to being jailed without a trial.\n\nSantana Baez later alleged that he had lied about the case and a judge then found no cause against Rodriguez Galindo. Santana Baez was later found guilty of the murder of a Puerto Rican dancer.\n\nOrtiz Vega died of AIDS.\n"}
{"id": "227167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227167", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies", "text": "Dementia with Lewy bodies\n\nDementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a type of dementia accompanied by changes in behavior, cognition and movement. Memory loss is not always present early. Dementia steadily worsens over time and the condition is diagnosed when cognitive decline interferes with normal daily functioning. A core feature is REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), in which individuals lose normal muscle paralysis during REM sleep, and act out their dreams. RBD may appear years or decades before other symptoms. Other frequent symptoms include visual hallucinations; marked fluctuations in attention or alertness; and slowness of movement, trouble walking, or rigidity. The autonomic nervous system is usually affected, resulting in changes in blood pressure, heart and gastrointestinal function, with constipation as a common symptom. Mood changes such as depression and apathy are common.\nThe exact cause is unknown, but involves widespread deposits of abnormal clumps of alpha-synuclein protein in neurons, known as Lewy bodies, as well as Lewy neurites. DLB is not usually inherited, but there is a genetic association in a small number of families. A probable diagnosis is made based on symptoms and biomarkers; the diagnostic workup may include blood tests, neuropsychological tests, medical imaging, and polysomnography. Other conditions that share some symptoms of DLB include Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, delirium and, rarely, psychosis.\nThere is no cure or medication that will modify the progression of the disease. Treatments aim to relieve some of its symptoms and reduce the burden on caregivers. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEI), such as donepezil and rivastigmine, are effective at improving cognition and overall functioning, and melatonin can be used for sleep-related symptoms. Antipsychotics are usually avoided, even for hallucinations, because people with DLB are sensitive to them, and their use can result in death. Medications for one symptom may worsen another.\nDLB is one of the three most common types of dementia, along with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Together with Parkinson's disease dementia, it is one of two dementias classified as the Lewy body dementias. It typically begins after the age of 50, and about 0.4% of people over 65 are affected. In the latter stages of the disease, people with DLB may be unable to care for themselves. Life expectancy following diagnosis is about eight years. The abnormal deposits of protein that are the underlying mechanism of the disease were discovered in 1912 by Frederic Lewy, and diffuse Lewy body disease was first described by Kenji Kosaka in 1976.\n\nDementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a progressive neurodegenerative dementia. Together with Parkinson's disease dementia, it is one of the Lewy body dementias, which are also classified as atypical parkinsonian syndromes. It is one of the synucleinopathies—neurodegenerative diseases that are due to an abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein protein in the brain—along with Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and other more rare conditions.\n\nThe Lewy body dementias are as a group the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD). DLB itself is one of the three most common types of dementia, along with AD and vascular dementia, with AD making up about half of all cases.\n\nThe alpha-synuclein protein deposits that cause DLB can damage different regions of the nervous system, including multiple brain regions in the central nervous system, as well as the autonomic nervous system. This widespread damage can affect several domains of functioning, resulting in a disease that is more complex than many other dementias, with widely varying symptoms. The symptoms of DLB are divided into essential, core, and supportive features.\n\nThere is an identifiable prodromal phase in DLB; the earliest signs are constipation and dizziness from autonomic dysfunction, reduced ability to smell, visual hallucinations, and REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD). DLB is distinguishable from AD even in the prodromal phase.\n\nDementia is present, but does not always appear early on with DLB, and is more likely to present as the condition progresses—typically after age 55. According to the 2017 \"Fourth Consensus Report of the DLB Consortium\", dementia is diagnosed when there is a \"progressive cognitive decline of sufficient magnitude to interfere with normal social or occupational functions, or with usual daily activities\".\n\nMemory loss is not always noticeable in the early stages of DLB. In contrast to AD, where the hippocampus is among the first brain structures affected and episodic memory loss related to encoding of memories is typically the earliest symptom, memory impairment occurs later in DLB. Memory loss in DLB has a different progression than AD because frontal structures are involved earlier, with later involvement of temporoparietal brain structures. Deterioration in memory function occurs because new memories may be encoded but not retrieved. Verbal memory is not as severely affected as in AD.\n\nWhile specific symptoms may vary, core features—based on \"diagnostic specificity and the volume of good-quality evidence available\"—designated by the 2017 DLB Consortium are: \n\nImpaired attention, executive function, and visuospatial function are common symptoms and are present early in the course of the disease. Karantzoulis and Galvin write that \"marked attentional and executive function disturbance is central\" and \"attentional disturbance may serve as the basis of fluctuating cognition that is characteristic\". Individuals with DLB may be easily distracted, have a hard time focusing on tasks, or appear to be \"delirium-like\", \"zoning out\", or in states of altered consciousness. They may have disorganized speech and their ability to organize their thoughts may change during the day. Problems with executive function surface in activities requiring planning and organizing. Deficits can present with impaired job performance, difficulty multitasking, inability to follow conversations or problems driving a car—such as misjudging distances or becoming lost. A person with DLB may experience problems of wakefulness or sleep disorders including daytime sleepiness, drowsiness or napping more than two hours a day, insomnia, and restless legs syndrome.\nREM sleep behavior disorder is a parasomnia in which individuals with RBD lose the paralysis of muscles (atonia) that is normal during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and act out their dreams or have other abnormal movements or vocalizations. About 80% of people with DLB have RBD. Abnormal sleep behaviors may begin before cognitive decline is observed, and may appear decades before any other symptoms, often as the first clinical indication of DLB and an early sign of a synucleinopathy. On autopsy, 94 to 98% of individuals with polysomnography-confirmed RBD are found to have a synucleinopathy—most commonly DLB or Parkinson's disease, in about equal proportions. Other symptoms of the specific synucleinopathy usually manifest within 15 years of the diagnosis of RBD, but may emerge up to 50 years after RBD diagnosis. RBD may subside over time.\n\nAn individual with RBD may not be aware that they act out their dreams; a sleeping partner may be the only person who knows of these behaviors. RBD behaviors may include yelling, screaming, laughing, crying, unintelligible talking, non-violent flailing, or more violent punching, kicking, choking, or scratching. The reported dream enactment behaviors are frequently violent, and involve a theme of being chased or attacked. People with RBD may fall out of bed or injure themselves or their bed partner. There may be resulting bruises, fractures, or subdural hematomas. However, because people are more likely to remember or report violent dreams and behaviors—and to be referred to a specialist when injury occurs—recall or selection bias may explain the prevalence of violence reported in RBD.\n\nParkinsonism occurs in more than 85% of people with DLB, who may have one or more of the cardinal features that occur in Parkinson's disease—slowness of movement, rigidity, and less commonly, tremor at rest. Motor symptoms may include shuffling gait, problems with balance, falls, blank expression, reduced range of facial expression, and low speech volume or a weak voice. Presentation of motor symptoms is variable, but they are usually symmetric, presenting on both sides of the body. For a DLB diagnosis, only one of the cardinal symptoms of parkinsonism need be present, and the symptoms may be less severe than in persons with Parkinson's disease.\n\nVisual hallucinations are defined by as \"well-formed images perceived without the presence of real stimuli\". Up to 80% of people with DLB have visual hallucinations, typically early in the course of the disease. They are recurrent and frequent; may be scenic, elaborate and detailed; and usually involve animated perceptions of animals or people, including children and family members.\n\nThese hallucinations can sometimes provoke fear, although their content is more typically neutral. In some cases, the person with DLB may have insight that the hallucinations are not real. Individuals with visual hallucinations and one of the Lewy body dementias generally have more severe cognitive impairment. Among those with more disrupted cognition, the hallucinations can become more complex, and they may be less aware that their hallucinations are not real.\n\nDifferent than visual \"hallucinations\", but also common in DLB, are visual misperceptions or \"illusions\", explained by as \"incorrect perceptions of real stimuli\". A person with DLB may have problems with vision (for example, at night) and misinterpret what they see (for example, mistaking a pile of socks for snakes or a clothes closet for the bathroom).\n\nAccording to the DLB Consortium, although \"carrying less diagnostic weight, supportive items are often valuable in clinical decision-making, acting as signposts to or adding evidence for a DLB diagnosis\". Supportive features may persist over time, be present early in the progression of DLB, and are common, but they are not specific to the diagnosis. The supportive features are:\n\nMarked sensitivity to antipsychotics. Antipsychotic treatment of people with DLB results in adverse reactions about half of the time, and this can be fatal after a single dose. The \"Fourth Consensus Report\" continues to caution against the use of antipsychotics (neuroleptics) for people with DLB. Partly because of dopamine cell loss, people with DLB may have neuroleptic malignant syndrome, impairments in cognition or alertness, or irreversible exacerbation of parkinsonism including severe rigidity, and dysautonomia from the use of antipsychotics. Antipsychotic medications with D2 dopamine receptor blocking properties are used only with great caution.\n\nDysautonomia (autonomic dysfunction) occurs when Lewy pathology affects the peripheral autonomic nervous system or the nerves that serve organs such as the intestines, heart, and urinary tract. The first signs of autonomic dysfunction are often subtle. Symptoms include blood pressure problems such as dizziness after quickly standing up and supine hypertension; constipation, urinary problems, and sexual dysfunction; loss of sense of smell or reduced ability to smell; and excessive sweating, drooling, or salivation and problems swallowing.\n\nAlpha-synuclein deposits can affect cardiac muscle and blood vessels. According to of the cardiac sympathetic nerves is a neuropathological feature\" of the Lewy body dementias. Almost all people with synucleinopathies have cardiovascular dysfunction, although most are asymptomatic; individuals with DLB have orthostatic hypotension due to reduced blood flow, which results in symptoms of lightheadedness, feeling faint, and blurred vision.\n\nFrom chewing to defecation, alpha-synuclein deposits affect every level of gastrointestinal function. Almost all persons with DLB have upper gastrointestinal tract dysfunction (such as delayed gastric emptying) or lower gastorintestinal dysfunction (such as constipation and prolonged stool transit time). Persons with Lewy body dementias almost universally experience nausea, gastic retention, or abdominal distention from delayed gastric emptying. Constipation can present a decade before diagnosis. Difficulty swallowing is milder than in other synucleinopathies, and presents later in the course of the disease.\n\nUrinary difficulties (urinary retention, waking at night to urinate, increased urinary frequency and urgency, and over- or underactive bladder) typically appear later and may be mild to moderate. Sexual dysfunction usually appears early in synucleinopathies, and may include erectile dysfunction, and difficulties achieving orgasm or ejaculating.\n\nAmong the other supportive features, psychiatric symptoms are often present when the individual first comes to clinical attention and more likely, compared to AD, to cause more impairment. Anxiety and depression are more common in DLB than in the general population, and may have been present for decades. Anxiety leads to increased risk of falls, and apathy may lead to less social interaction.\n\nAgitation, behavioral disturbances, and delusions typically appear later in the course of the disease. Delusions may have a paranoid quality, revolving around themes like a house being broken in to, infidelity, or abandonment. As the individual with DLB misplaces items, they may have delusions centered around theft. Capgras delusion may occur, where the person with DLB loses knowledge of the spouse, caregiver or partner's face, and is convinced that an imposter has replaced their caregiver. Hallucinations in other modalities are sometimes present, but are less frequent.\n\nSleep disorders are common in DLB and may lead to hypersomnia; these include disrupted sleep cycles, sleep apnea, and arousal from periodic limb movement disorder. Loss of sense of smell may occur several years before other symptoms.\n\nMedications (including tricyclic antidepressants as well as treatments for urinary incontinence) with anticholinergic properties that cross the blood brain barrier can cause memory loss; dopamine agonists may lead to psychosis; and the antihistamine medication diphenhydramine (Benadryl), sleep medications like zolpidem, and benzodiazepines may worsen confusion or neuropsychiatric symptoms. Some general anesthetics may cause confusion or delirium upon waking in persons with Lewy body dementias, and may result in permanent decline.\n\nThe exact cause of DLB—indeed the cause of synucleinopathies—is not known, but there are probably many factors including both genetic and environmental influences. Less than 10% of cases can be accounted for by inheritance of a single gene, while in most cases, genetic and environmental factors mediate other disease processes to cause synucleinopathies; these other processes include \"mitochondrial or autosomal-lysomal autophagy system dysfunction, inflammation, endoplasmic reticulum stress, or even prion-like infection\".\n\nThe genetics are not well studied because the large homogeneous DLB populations needed for genetic studies have not been identified. DLB is not usually inherited, but there is a genetic association in a small number of families. DLB risk is heightened with inheritance of the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene, and mutations in the PARK11 and GBA genes are associated with DLB. Further, there is genetic overlap among dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Also, RBD is found more often among individuals who have GBA and SNCA mutations.\n\nHaving REM sleep behavior disorder, having another family member with DLB, and age over 50 are risk factors for developing DLB. Additional risk factors for rapid conversion of RBD to a synucleinopathy are impairments in color vision or the ability to smell, mild cognitive impairment, and abnormal dopamingeric imaging.\n\nDLB is characterized by the development of abnormal collections of alpha-synuclein protein within neurons, known as Lewy bodies, and Lewy neurites in diseased neurons. When these clumps of protein form in neurons, those neurons function less optimally and die. Damage in the brain is widespread, and affects many domains of functioning. In DLB, loss of acetylcholine-producing neurons is thought to account for degeneration in memory and learning, while the death of dopamine-producing neurons appears to be responsible for degeneration of \"behavior, cognition, movement, motivation, sleep, and mood\".\n\nThe amount of Lewy body pathology correlates with the extent of dementia in the Lewy body disorders, but amyloid imaging and autopsy studies indicate that tau protein pathology and amyloid plaques, hallmarks of AD, are also common. Amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposits are found in the tauopathies, neurodegenerative diseases characterized by neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, but the mechanism underlying dementia is often mixed, and Aβ is also a factor in DLB.\n\nThe precise mechanisms contributing to DLB are not well understood, and a matter of some dispute. The role played by the alpha-synuclein deposits is unclear, because individuals with no signs of DLB have been found on autopsy to have advanced alpha-synuclein pathology. Weil says that \"How Lewy pathology relates to dopamingergic degeneration and later to more widespread cell death has remained contentious.\" It is not known if the pathology spreads between cells or follows another pattern. The mechanisms that contribute to cell death, how the disease advances through the brain, and the timing of cognitive decline are all poorly understood; nor is there a model to account for the specific neurons and brain regions that are affected.\n\nA proposed pathophysiology for RBD implicates cells in the reticular formation that regulate REM sleep. These cells are affected before other brain regions in the Lewy body dementias; this could be a potential explanation for the appearance of RBD often decades earlier than other symptoms.\n\nDementia with Lewy bodies can only be definitively diagnosed after death with an autopsy of the brain—diagnosis of the living is referred to as \"probable\" or \"possible\". DLB is often misdiagnosed or confused in its early stages with AD. Another complicating factor is that DLB can occur along with Alzheimer's; autopsy may reveal previously undiagnosed Lewy bodies in as many as half of people with AD. Despite the difficulty in diagnosis, a prompt diagnosis is important because of the serious risks of sensitivity to antipsychotic medications and the need to inform both the person with DLB and the person's caregivers about potentially irreversible side effects of those medications. In comparison to many other neurodegenerative diseases, the management of DLB is difficult, so an accurate diagnosis is important.\n\nThe 2017 \"Fourth Consensus Report\" established diagnostic criteria for probable and possible DLB, in recognition of advances in detection and improvements from the earlier \"Third Consensus\" (2005) version. The 2017 criteria are based on essential, core and supportive clinical features, and diagnostic biomarkers.\n\nThe essential feature is dementia: for a DLB diagnosis, it must be sufficient to interfere with social or occupational functioning.\n\nThe four core clinical features (described in the Signs and symptoms section) are: fluctuating cognition, visual hallucinations, REM sleep behavior disorder, and signs of parkinsonism. Supportive clinical features are marked sensitivity to antipsychotics; marked autonomic dysfunction; non-visual hallucinations; hypersomnia; reduced ability to smell; false beliefs and delusions organized around a common theme; postural instability, loss of consciousness and frequent falls; apathy, anxiety or depression.\n\nThe diagnostic biomarkers are:\n\nIndicative\n\nSupportive (from PET, SPECT, CT, or MRI brain imaging studies, or EEG monitoring):\n\nProbable DLB can be diagnosed when dementia and at least two core features are present, or one core feature with at least one indicative biomarker is present. Possible DLB can be diagnosed when dementia and only one core feature are present or, if no core features are present, there is at least one indicative biomarker.\n\nDLB is distinguished from Parkinson's disease dementia by the time frame in which dementia symptoms appear relative to Parkinson symptoms. DLB is diagnosed when cognitive symptoms begin before or at the same time as parkinsonism. Parkinson's disease dementia would be the diagnosis when Parkinson's disease is well established before the dementia occurs; that is, the onset of dementia is more than a year after the onset of parkinsonian symptoms.\n\nDLB is listed in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition\" (DSM-5) as Major or mild neurocognitive disorder with Lewy bodies. The differences between the DSM and DLB Consortium criteria are: 1) the DSM does not include low dopamine transporter uptake as a supportive feature; and 2) there is unclear diagnostic weight assigned to biomarkers in the DSM.\n\nDiagnostic tests can be used to establish some features of the condition and distinguish them from symptoms of other conditions; diagnosis may include the person's medical history, physical exam, assessment of neurological function, testing to rule out conditions that may cause similar symptoms, brain imaging, neuropsychological testing to assess cognitive function, sleep studies, or myocardial scintigraphy. Laboratory testing can rule out conditions like depression, abnormal thyroid function, syphillis, HIV or vitamin deficiencies that may cause symptoms similar to dementia.\n\nDementia screening tests are the Mini-Mental State Examination, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, and others. For tests of attention, digit span, serial sevens, and spatial span can be used for simple screening, and the Revised Digit Symbol Subtest of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale may show defects in attention that are characteristic of DLB. The Frontal Assessment Battery, Stroop test and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test are used for evaluation of executive function, and there are many other screening instruments available.\n\nIf DLB is suspected when parkinsonism and dementia are the only presenting features, PET or SPECT imaging may show reduced dopamine transporter activity. A DLB diagnosis may be warranted if other conditions with reduced dopamine transporter uptake can be ruled out.\n\nRBD is diagnosed either by sleep study recording or, when sleep studies cannot be performed, by medical history and validated questionnaires. In individuals with dementia and a history of RBD, a probable DLB diagnosis can be justified (even with no other core feature or biomarker) based on a sleep study showing REM sleep without atonia because it is so highly predictive. Conditions similar to RBD, like severe sleep apnea and periodic limb movement disorder, must be ruled out. Prompt evaluation and treatment of RBD is indicated when a prior history of violence or injury is present as it may increase the likelihood of future violent dream enactment behaviors. Individuals with RBD may not be able to provide a history of dream enactment behavior, so bed partners are also consulted. The REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Single-Question Screen offers diagnostic sensitivity and specificity in the absence of polysomnography with one question: \"Have you ever been told, or suspected yourself, that you seem to 'act out your dreams' while asleep (for example, punching, flailing your arms in the air, making running movements, etc.)?\"\n\nSince 2001, iodine-metaiodobenzylguanidine myocardial scintigraphy has been used diagnostically in East Asia and Japan. MIBG is taken up by sympathetic nerve endings, such as those that innervate the heart, and is labeled for scintigraphy with radioactive iodine. Autonomic dysfunction resulting from damage to nerves in the heart in patients with DLB is associated with lower cardiac uptake of \n\nThere is no genetic test to determine if an individual will develop DLB and, according to the Lewy Body Dementia Association, genetic testing is not routinely recommended because there are only rare instances of hereditary DLB.\n\nThe cognitive and motor symptoms of many neurodegenerative conditions overlap with or can be confused with dementia with Lewy bodies. The differential diagnosis includes Alzheimer's disease; such synucleinopathies as Parkinson's disease dementia, Parkinson's disease, and multiple system atrophy; vascular dementia; and progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and corticobasal syndrome.\n\nLewy pathology affects the peripheral autonomic nervous system; autonomic dysfunction is observed less often in Alzheimer's, frontotemporal, or vascular dementias, so its presence can help differentiate them.\n\nAlzheimer's disease. Short-term memory impairment is seen early in AD and is a prominent feature, while fluctuating attention is uncommon; impairment in DLB is more often seen first as fluctuating cognition. While 74% of people with autopsy-confirmed DLB had deficits in planning and organization, they show up in only 45% of people with AD. In AD, it is unclear if executive function is impacted early. Visuospatial processing deficits are present in most individuals with DLB, and they show up earlier and are more pronounced than in AD. Hallucinations typically occur early in the course of DLB, are less common in early AD, but usually occur later in AD. AD pathology frequently co-occurs in DLB, so the cerebrospinal fluid testing for Aβ and tau protein that is often used to detect AD is not useful in differentiating AD and DLB.\n\nPET or SPECT imaging can be used to detect reduced dopamine transporter uptake and distinguish AD from DLB. Severe atrophy of the hippocampus is more typical of AD than DLB. In East Asia and Japan, is used in the differential diagnosis of DLB and AD, because reduced labeling of cardiac nerves is seen only in Lewy body disorders. Other indicative and supportive biomarkers are useful in distinguishing DLB and AD (preservation of medial temporal lobe structures, reduced occipital activity, and slow-wave EEG activity).\n\nSynucleinopathies. Dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia are clinically similar after dementia occurs in Parkinson's disease. Delusions in Parkinson's disease dementia are less common than in DLB, and persons with Parkinson's disease are typically less caught up in their visual hallucinations than those with DLB. There is a lower incidence of tremor at rest in DLB than in Parkinson's disease, and signs of parkinsonism in DLB are more symmetrical. In multiple system atrophy, autonomic dysfunction appears earlier and is more severe, and is accompanied by uncoordinated movements, while visual hallucinations and fluctuating cognition are less common than in DLB. Urinary difficulty is one of the earliest symptoms with multiple system atrophy, and is often severe.\n\nFrontotemporal. Corticobasal syndrome, corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy are frontotemporal dementias with features of parkinsonism and impaired cognition. Similar to DLB, imaging may show reduced dopamine transporter uptake. According to Gomperts, \"[c]areful history and examination remain the method of choice\" for distinguishing corticobasal syndrome and degeneration, and progressive supranuclear palsy, from DLB. Motor movements in corticobasal syndrome are asymmetrical. There are differences in posture, gaze and facial expressions in the most common variants of progressive supranuclear palsy, and falling backwards is more common relative to DLB. Visual hallucinations and fluctuating cognition are unusual in corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy.\n\nVascular dementia. MRI scans almost always show abnormalities in the brains of people with vascular dementia, which can begin suddenly. The Dementia Cognitive Fluctuation Scale is a screening questionnaire used to measure fluctuating attention and alertness that has shown promise in distinguishing between DLB and vascular dementia, but , it had not been fully validated.\n\nOther. The symptoms of DLB are easily confused with delirium, or more rarely as psychosis. Mismanagement of delirium is a particular concern because of the risks to people with DLB associated with antipsychotics. Dopamine transporter imaging can help distinguish DLB from delirium.\n\nOnly palliative care can be offered, as there are no medications which will modify the course of the disease. No medications for DLB are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration , although donepezil is licensed in Japan for the treatment of DLB. Management can be challenging because of the need to balance treatment of cognitive dysfunction, neuropsychiatric features, impairments related to the motor system, and other nonmotor symptoms. A multidisciplinary approach, going beyond early and accurate diagnosis to include educating and supporting the caregivers, is favored by the 2017 DLB Consortium.\n\nPharmacological management of DLB is complex because of adverse effects to medications and the wide range of symptoms to be treated (cognitive, motor, neuropsychiatric, autonomic, and sleep). Anticholinergic and dopaminergic agents can have adverse effects or result in psychosis in individuals with DLB, and a medication that addresses one feature might worsen another. For example, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) for cognitive symptoms can lead to complications in dysautonomia features; treatment of movement symptoms with dopaminergic agents may worsen neuropsychiatric symptoms; and treatment of hallucinations and psychosis with antipsychotics may worsen other symptoms or lead to a potentially fatal reaction.\n\nExtreme caution is required in the use of antipsychotic medication in people with DLB because of their sensitivity to these agents. According to Boot (2013), \"electing not to use neuroleptics is often the best course of action\". People with Lewy body dementias who take neuroleptics are at risk for neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a life-threatening illness. There is little evidence to support the use of antipsychotics to treat the Lewy body dementias, and they carry the additional risk of stroke when used in the elderly with dementia.\n\nCognitive symptoms. There is strong evidence for the use of AChEIs to treat cognitive problems. Donepezil (Aricept) was licensed in 2014 in Japan for the treatment of DLB, and rivastigmine (Exelon) has a strong evidence base for treating cognitive symptoms. Even if the AChEIs do not lead to improvement in cognitive symptoms, people taking them may have less deterioration, although there may be adverse gastrointestinal effects. The AChEIs are initiated carefully as they may aggravate autonomic dysfunction or sleep behaviors. DLB may be more responsive than AD to donepezil. There is less evidence for the efficacy of memantine in DLB, but it may be used alone or with an AChEI because of its low side effect profile. Anticholinergic drugs are avoided because they worsen cognitive symptoms.\n\nTo improve daytime alertness, there is mixed evidence for the use of stimulants such as methylphenidate and dextroamphetamine; although worsening of neuropsychiatric symptoms is not common, they can increase the risk of psychosis. In the US, modafinil and armodafinil are not always covered by insurance, but may be effective for daytime sleepiness.\n\nMotor symptoms appear to respond in DLB somewhat less to the medications used to treat Parkinson's disease, like levodopa, and neuropsychiatric symptoms can be increased. If such medications are needed for motor symptoms, cautious introduction with slow increases to the lowest possible dose may help avoid psychosis.\n\nNeuropsychiatric symptoms. The first line of defense in reducing visual hallucinations is to reduce the use of dopaminergic drugs, which can worsen hallucinations. Although it has been shown effective in Parkinson's disease, there is limited evidence for the use of clozapine to treat visual hallucinations in DLB, and its use requires regular blood monitoring. Quetiapine is relatively safe and well-tolerated for psychosis and agitation in DLB, but there is little evidence for its efficacy.\n\nApathy may be treated with AChEIs, and they may also reduce hallucinations and delusions; reduction in anxiety and agitation may be a secondary effect. Mirtazapine and SSRIs can be used to treat depression, depending on how well they are tolerated, and guided by general advice for the use of antidepressants in dementia. Antidepressants can worsen RBD, and antidepressants with anticholinergic properties may worsen hallucinations and delusions. People with Capgras syndrome may not tolerate AChEIs.\n\nSleep disorders. Injurious dream enactment behaviors are a treatment priority. RBD may be treated with melatonin or clonazepam. Melatonin may be more helpful in preventing injuries, and it offers a safer alternative, because clonazepam can produce deteriorating cognition, and worsen sleep apnea. For some people, memantine or AChEIs are useful. No trials support its use in DLB, but modafinil may be used for hypersomnia. Mirtazapine can be used for hypersomnia, but it can exacerbate RBD. Antidepressants (SSRIs, SSNRIs, tricyclics, and MAOIs), AChEIs, beta blockers, caffeine, and tramadol may worsen RBD.\n\nAutonomic symptoms. Decreasing the dosage of dopaminergic or atypical antipsychotic drugs may be needed with orthostatic hypotension, and high blood pressure drugs can sometimes be stopped. When non-pharmacological treatments for orthostatic hypotension have been exhausted, fludrocortisone, droxidopa, midodrine or atomoxetine are options.\n\nThere is no high-quality evidence for non-pharmacological management of DLB, but some interventions have been shown effective for addressing similar symptoms that occur in other dementias. Organized activities, music therapy, physical activity and occupational therapy may help with psychosis or agitation, while exercise and gait training can help with motor symptoms. Cognitive behavioral therapy can be tried for depression or hallucinations, although there is no evidence for its use in DLB. The frequency and severity of RBD may be lessened by treating sleep apnea, if it is present. Cues can be used to help with memory retrieval.\n\nFor autonomic dysfunction, several non-medication strategies may be helpful. Dietary changes include avoiding meals rich in carbohydrates and sugary foods, eating smaller and more frequent meals, increasing table salt to reduce orthostatic hypotension, and increasing fluids or dietary fiber to treat constipation. Stool softeners and exercise also help with constipation. Physical exercise in a sitting or recumbent position, and exercise in a pool, helps maintain conditioning when orthostatic hypotension is a problem. Compression stockings and elevating the head of the bed may also help. To lessen the risk of fractures in individuals at risk for falls, bone mineral density screening and testing of vitamin D levels are used, and caregivers are educated on the importance of preventing falls. Physical therapy may be helpful for motor symptoms.\n\nBecause of the neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with DLB, the demands placed on caregivers are higher than in AD, but education for caregivers has not been studied as thoroughly as in AD. Contributing factors to the caregiver burden in DLB are psychosis, aggression, agitation, and night-time behaviors such as parasomnias, that lead to a loss of independence earlier than in AD. Caregivers may experience depression, exhaustion, and be in need of support. Other family members who are not present in the daily caregiving may not observe the fluctuating behaviors or recognize the stress on the caregiver, and conflict can result when family members are not supportive. Caregiver education reduces not only distress for the caregiver, but symptoms for the individual with dementia.\n\nVisual hallucinations associated with DLB create a particular burden on caregivers; educating caregivers on how to distract or change the subject when confronted with hallucinations is more effective than arguing over the reality of the hallucination. Coping strategies may help and are worth trying, even though there is no evidence for their efficacy. These strategies include having the person with DLB look away or look at something else, focus on or try to touch the hallucination, wait for it to go away on its own, and speak with others about the visualization. Delusions and hallucinations may be reduced by increasing lighting in the evening, and making sure there is no light at night when the individual with DLB is sleeping.\n\nWith the increased risk of antipsychotics for people with DLB, educated caregivers are able to act as advocates for the person with DLB. If evaluation or treatment in an emergency room is needed, the caregiver may be able to explain that, in the words of Gomperts \"patients with DLB are essentially 'allergic' to haloperidol and other neuroleptics\". Caregiver training, watchful waiting, identifying sources of pain, and increasing social interaction can help minimize agitation. Individuals with dementia may not be able to communicate that they are in pain, and pain is a common trigger of agitation. Medical alert bracelets or notices about medication sensitivity are available and can save lives.\n\nWhen RBD is present, individuals and their caregivers need counselling about the need to improve bedroom safety. Sleep-related injuries from falling or jumping out of bed can be avoided by placing a mattress next to the bed to soften the impact of a fall, and removing sharp objects from around the bed. Sharp surfaces near the bed can be padded, bed alarm systems may help with sleepwalking, and bed partners may find it safer to sleep in another room. According to St Louis and Boeve, firearms should be locked away, out of the bedroom.\n\nDriving ability may be impaired early in DLB because of visual hallucinations, movement issues related to parkinsonism, and fluctuations in cognitive ability, and at some point it becomes unsafe for the person to drive. Driving ability is assessed as part of management and family members generally determine when driving privileges are removed. \n\nA home safety assessment can be done when there is risk of falling; handrails and shower chairs can help avoid falls.\n\nThe prognosis for DLB has not been well studied; early studies had methodological limitations, such as small sample size and selection bias. DLB generally leads to higher disability, lower life expectancy and a reduced quality of life, with increased costs of care. Depression, apathy, and visual hallucinations contribute to the reduced quality of life. Decline may be more rapid when severe visuospatial deficits show up early in the course of the Lewy body dementias, when the APOE gene is present, or when Alzheimer's or its biomarkers is also present. The severity of orthostatic hypotension also predicts a worse prognosis.\n\nCompared to AD, which is better studied, memory is retained longer, while verbal fluency may be lost faster. There are more neuropsychiatric symptoms in DLB than AD, and they may emerge earlier, so according to Mueller, those with DLB \"might have a less favourable prognosis, with accelerated cognitive decline, shorter lifespan, and increased admission to residential care\". The difference in admissions to hospital and time in nursing care may be explained by the presence of hallucinations. Increased mortality relative to AD may be attributed to a higher risk of injury from falls.\n\nLife expectancy is difficult to predict, and limited study data are available. Survival may be defined from the point of disease onset, or from the (possibly delayed) point of diagnosis. A 2017 review found survival from disease onset between 5.5 and 7.7 years, survival from diagnosis between 1.9 and 6.3 years, and a poorer survival rate than in Alzheimer's. The US National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke writes that people with DLB typically live 8 years following diagnosis, about the same as AD, though some people with Lewy body dementias live for 20 years. Shorter life expectancy is more likely when visual hallucinations, abnormal gait, and variable cognition are present early on. In the late part of the disease, people may be unable to care for themselves. Aspiration pneumonia, a complication of difficulty in swallowing that results from dysautonomia, commonly causes death among people with synucleinopathies.\n\nDementia with Lewy bodies is under-recognized, and there is little data on its epidemiology. The diagnostic criteria for DLB prior to 2017 were highly specific, but not very sensitive, so that more than half of cases were missed. The incidence and prevalence of DLB is not known accurately, but estimates are increasing with better recognition of the condition.\n\nAbout 0.4% of those over the age 65 are affected with DLB, and between per 1,000 people develop the condition each year. Symptoms usually appear between the ages of 50 and 80, and it is not uncommon for it to be diagnosed before the age of 65. DLB was thought to be slightly more common in men than women, but a 2014 review challenged that view, and said that the gender distribution was unclear. An estimated 10 to 15% of diagnosed dementias are Lewy body type, but estimates range as high as 24%.\n\nA French study found an incidence among persons 65 years and older almost four times higher than a US study per 100,000 person-years), but the US study may have excluded people with only mild or no parkinsonism, while the French study screened for parkinsonism. Neither of the studies assessed systematically for RBD, so DLB may have been underdiagnosed in both studies. A door-to-door study in Japan found a prevalence of 0.53% for persons 65 and older, and a Spanish study found similar results.\n\nFrederic Lewy (1885–1950) was the first to discover the abnormal protein deposits (later called \"Lewy body inclusions\") in the early 1900s. In 1912, studying Parkinson's disease (\"paralysis agitans\"), he described findings of these inclusions in the vagus nerve, the nucleus basalis of Meynert and other brain regions. He published a book, \"The Study on Muscle Tone and Movement. Including Systematic Investigations on the Clinic, Physiology, Pathology, and Pathogenesis of Paralysis agitans\", in 1923 and except for one brief paper a year later, never mentioned his findings again.\n\nIn 1961, Okazaki \"et al.\" published an account of diffuse Lewy-type inclusions associated with dementia in two autopsied cases. Dementia with Lewy bodies was fully recognized and described in an autopsied case by Japanese psychiatrist and neuropathologist Kenji Kosaka in 1976; he first proposed the term \"Lewy body disease\" four years later, based on 20 autopsied cases. DLB was thought to be rare until it became easier to diagnose in the 1980s after the discovery of alpha-synuclein immunostaining that highlighted Lewy bodies in post mortem brains. described thirty-four more cases in 1984, which were mentioned along with four UK cases by in 1987 in the journal \"Brain\", bringing attention of the Japanese work to the Western world. A year later, published the first general description of diffuse Lewy Body Disease.\n\nWith Japanese, UK, and US researchers finding in the 1990s that DLB was a common dementia, there were nonetheless no diagnostic guidelines, and each group was using different terminology. The different groups of researchers began to realize that a collaborative approach was needed if research was to advance. The DLB Consortium was established, and in 1996, the term \"dementia with Lewy bodies\" was agreed upon and the first criteria for diagnosing DLB were elaborated.\n\nTwo 1997 discoveries highlighted the importance of Lewy body inclusions in neurodegenerative processes: a mutation in the SNCA gene that encodes the alpha-synuclein protein was found in kindreds with Parkinson's disease, and Lewy bodies and neurites were found to be immunoreactive for alpha-synuclein. Thus, alpha-synuclein aggregation as the primary building block of the synucleinopathies was established.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2005, the DLB Consortium issued three Consensus Reports on DLB. DLB was included in the fourth text revision of the DSM (DSM-IV-TR, published in 2000) under \"Dementia due to other general medical conditions”. In the 2010s, the possibility of a genetic basis began to emerge. The Fourth Consensus Report was issued in 2017, giving increased diagnostic weighting to RBD and myocardial scintigraphy.\n\nThe British author and poet Mervyn Peake died in 1968 and was diagnosed posthumously as a probable case of DLB in a 2003 study published in \"JAMA Neurology\". Based on signs in his work and letters of progressive deterioration, fluctuating cognitive decline, deterioration in visuospatial function, declining attention span, and visual hallucinations and delusions, his may be the earliest known case where DLB was found to have been the likely cause of death.\n\nRobin Williams, the American actor and comedian, died by suicide on August 11, 2014. He had been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, and according to his widow he experienced depression, anxiety and increasing paranoia. Upon autopsy his widow said he was found to have diffuse Lewy body disease, while the autopsy used the term \" diffuse Lewy body dementia\". Dennis Dickson, a spokesperson for the Lewy Body Dementia Association, clarified the distinction between the term used in the autopsy report, \"diffuse Lewy body dementia\"—which is more commonly called \"diffuse Lewy body disease\" and refers to the underlying disease process—and the umbrella term, \"Lewy body dementia\"—which encompasses both PDD and DLB. According to Dickson, \"The report confirms he experienced depression, anxiety and paranoia, which may occur in either Parkinson's disease or dementia with Lewy bodies\", adding that, in Parkinson's, \"Lewy bodies are generally limited in distribution, but in DLB, the Lewy bodies are spread widely throughout the brain, as was the case with Robin Williams.\" Ian G. McKeith, LBD professor and researcher, commented that Williams' symptoms and autopsy findings were explained by DLB.\n\nCognitive training, deep brain stimulation and transcranial direct-current stimulation have been studied more in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease than they have in dementia with Lewy bodies, and all are potential therapies for DLB. Medications that alter the underlying process of alpha-synuclein deposits are yet to be identified.\n\nFuture strategies involve interventions to modify the course of the disease using immunotherapy, gene therapy, stem cell therapy, and reducing amyloid beta accumulation. Identification of biomarkers for DLB will enable treatments to begin sooner and improve the ability to select subjects and measure efficacy in clinical trials. there are no well-validated neuroimaging modalities to measure alpha-synuclein in the brains of living people, but this is an active area of research.\n\n"}
{"id": "9017143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9017143", "title": "Dule tree", "text": "Dule tree\n\nDule or dool trees in Britain were used as gallows for public hangings. They were also used as gibbets for the display of the corpse for a considerable period after such hangings. These \"trees of lamentation or grief\" were usually growing in prominent positions or at busy thoroughfares, particularly at crossroads, so that justice could be seen to have been done and as a salutary warning to others. Place names such as Gallows-Hill, Gallows-See, Gallows-Fey and Hill of the Gallows (Tom Nan Croiche) record the site of such places of execution.\n\nIn Scots, dule or duill, also dole, dowle; dwle, dul, dull, duyl, duile, doile, doill, dewle, deull, and duel. In Middle English, dule, duyl, dulle, deul, dewle and variants of doole, dole, and dool. All these words mean sorrow, grief, or mental distress.\n\nThe \"furca\" and \"fossa\", or the \"pit and gallows\", refers to the \"high justice\" including the capital penalty. The \"furca\" was a device for hanging slaves in ancient Rome and refers to the gallows for hanging men; the \"fossa\" was a ditch filled with water for the drowning of women. With the introduction to Scotland of the feudal system in the 12th-century, pre-feudal, or Celtic tenures, were transformed into holding from the Crown and a number of these were held directly or in chief of the Crown and were held \"in liberam baroniam,\" in free barony, with high justice (i.e., with pit and gallows). In Scotland trees were often used as gallows. These dule trees were also known as the 'Grief Tree', the 'Gallows Tree', the 'Justice Tree' and the 'Tree'. It is said that King Malcolm Canmore legislated in 1057 that every barony was to have a tree for hanging convicted men and a pit of water for the execution of convicted women.\n\nThese baronies belonged to the same order as earls and these earls and barons together formed the order of the three \"estaits\" of the Scots Parliament known as the Baronage of Scotland. The barons sat in the Scots Parliament until 1587, when they were relieved from attendance, which was burdensome and costly. The right of pit and gallows was removed in 1747 by the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746, lesser powers continued to the twentieth century.\n\nDule trees were also used by Highland chieftains, who would hang their enemies or any deserter, murderer, etc. from them. Highland clan chiefs also therefore had the power of 'life or death' over their clansmen in times gone by. The high ground on which these trees grew often became known as \"gallows hills\".\n\nIt is not clear whether the Moot or Justice hills were also the site of the gallows. Some of the place names suggest that they could have been and many were certainly in a prominent position for the display of a corpse to warn others of the consequences of wrongdoing.\n\nMedieval song\n\nPaterson is taken by the idea that dule-trees were places where a clan met to bewail any misfortune that befell the community. He cites an example where the friends and adherents of David, first Earl of Cassilis, met at the Cassilis dule-tree to lament, for several days, his loss at the disastrous Battle of Flodden in 1513. Lawson also gives these details and states that the retainers used to assemble under the tree to make lamentation upon the death of their chief, implying it was an old custom and not a 'one off.'\n\nJames V upon becoming king decided to restore order throughout the kingdom and its borders. With an army of 12,000 men he required all earls, lords, barons, freeholders, and gentlemen to meet at Edinburgh with a month's supplies, and then to proceed to Teviotdale and Annandale. James offered safe conduct to Johnnie Armstrong, the laird of Gilnockie, for a meeting in either in Scotland or in England. Johnnie Armstrong commanded powerful forces and from the Scots border to Newcastle of England most estates were obliged to pay tribute to him.\n\nWhen Johnnie came into the King's presence, there was no trial, just a hanging of Johnnie and his men in the trees of Caerlanrig churchyard. The trees are said to have withered and died 'for shame' and that the same has happened to any trees planted since. Johnnie is said to have shouted to James, \"I have asked grace at a graceless face.\" This peremptory execution weakened rather than strengthened James's authority in the borders.\n\nThese trees were often close to the residence of the lord or clan chief and one of the best known dule trees stands within the grounds of Leith Hall, near Huntly, Aberdeenshire. This tree, a sycamore (\"Acer pseudoplatanus\"), was used as a natural gibbet and a means for publicly carrying out feudal justice. The strong timber, not prone to snapping, made this a favoured species for this purpose. Leith Hall dates from about 1650 and the tree was possibly planted shortly after this. A rather gaunt and heavily branched tree, the trunk measures 116 cm in diameter.\n\nAt Cessnock Castle near Galston, East Ayrshire is a dule tree, a gnarled specimen of \"Castanea sativa\" - sweet chestnut.\n\nAn old beech tree is still known as a 'gallows tree' and grows in an exposed position near Monikie in Angus.\n\nThe dule tree at Cassillis Castle in South Ayrshire was blown down in a great storm during the winter of 1939-40 and when the rings on its trunk were counted, it was found to be about 200 years old. A new dule tree, grown from a cutting taken from the old one, a plane tree or sycamore maple now stands on the original site. John or Johnny Faa, King of the Gypsies is said to have been hanged from the Cassillis Dule Tree, together with some of his supporters. On the Water of Minnoch is a deep pool known as the 'murder hole' in which a family from Rowantree dumped their victims; they were caught, confessed and were the last to be hanged on the dule tree.\n\nThe author Joseph Train records however that at the last \"shire-mote\" ever held in Carrick by the Earl of Cassillis, the MacKillups of Craingenreach were hanged on the dule tree of Cassillis circa 1746, having murdered a neighbour and thrown his remains into \"the common murder hole of the Bailiery at Craigenreach\".\n\nKilkerran House in South Ayrshire has a dule tree in its grounds.\n\nThe ancient sycamore that stands in the shadow of Blairquhan Castle, near Straiton, South Ayrshire is thought to be a dule tree, planted early in the 16th century during the reign of King James V of Scotland. The moss-covered trunk has a girth of 5.6 metres (18 feet 4 inches), and is completely hollow, with only a very thin outer shell of sound wood supporting the tree. The once spreading crown was heavily pruned in 1997 in an effort to preserve the fragile shell and prevent the much-weakened trunk from total collapse. Vigorous new growth is now establishing a new, smaller crown.\n\nNear the village of Logierait in Perthshire is the hollow ` ash tree of the Boat of Logierait, which, 63 feet in height and 40 in girth at 3 feet from the ground, is said to have been ` \"the dool tree of the district, on which caitiffs and robbers were formerly executed, and their bodies left hanging till they dropped and lay around unburied.\" '\n\nAn example may still exist at Bargany in South Ayrshire where a European ash (\"Fraxinus excelsior\"), served the role of the baronial dule tree.\n\nAn example is said to survive at Douglas Castle, located around 1 km north-east of the village of Douglas, South Lanarkshire aka Castle Dangerous of Sir Walter Scott's novel of that name.\n\nSmith records in 1895 that the stump of the dule tree at Newark Castle was carefully preserved.\n\nHangman's Elm, or simply the \"hanging tree\", is an English elm located in New York City, over 300 years old. Traitors are said to have been hanged at this location during the American Revolutionary War. Later, the Marquis de Lafayette is said to have witnessed the 'festive' hanging of 20 highwaymen here in 1824.\n\nIn the 1830s, a gallows-tree still stood in the Edinburgh grass-market, surrounded by the actual scaffold with a ladder leaning against the structure for the ascent.\n\nAuchendrane castle also (Auchindraine) in South Ayrshire sits on the banks of the River Doon and had a famous dule tree, long ago blown down in furious gale. This tree was an ash and stood in front of the castle; described as being one of the finest trees in the district. The last Mure of Auchendrane was arrested for non-payment of a small debt and the bailiff, out of compassion, offered to settle the debt in exchange for the dule tree. The Laird of Auchendrane replied that he would rather rot to death in the worst dungeon than sell the dule tree of Auchendrane.\n\nHunterston castle near West Kilbride had a dule known as the 'hanging tree' or 'resting tree'. It was an ash and stood near to the gardens on the line of the old road between Fairlie and West Kilbride. An oak tree was planted to replace it. A legend of a beautiful lady fairy is also associated with this dule tree.\n\nNewark Castle near the River Doon in South Ayrshire (old Carrick) had a dule-tree near its grand stair. It was an ash measuring about 15 feet circumference and it had five principal branches.\n\nEvelix Farmhouse regality Court-House and gallows tree in the parish of Dornoch. According to the farmer at Evelix the gallows tree stood until recently in a niche in a wall nearby.\n\nThe Victoria Bridge, Crathie and Braemar in Aberdeenshire has an old Scots pine tree that stands on the south side of the road leading to Mar Lodge, and to the west of the bridge. This was traditionally the gallows tree for the barony.\n\nTushielaw Tower gallows tree, parish of Ettrick in the Scottish borders. The tree was an ash tree in the ruins of Tushielaw Tower on which Adam Scott, the 'King of the Thieves', was hanged on the orders of James V.\n\nLynstock near Abernethy, Perth and Kinross. An ancient fir still stood in the 20th-century when it was thought to be over 300 years old. At a height of 12 feet from the ground it had a strong projecting bough, and it is said that it was from it that the noose cord or wuddie was hung. There were marks of graves at the foot of the tree, tradition says of two brothers, as stated by the reverend, Grant, and therefore the tree is sometimes called the \"tree of the brothers.\"\n\nThe Gallowshill across the main road from Rossdhu House, home of the chiefs of the Clan Colquhoun, marks the site of their \"dule-tree.\"\n\nTom Nan Croiche (Hill of the Gallows) lies above the village of Dalmally in Glenorchy, Argyll and Bute. A tree still marks the spot and its is recorded that the condemned men sometimes had to carry their own gibbet or gallows up the hill and the hole where the post was placed still exists. A tree on the site was sometimes used. Unusually a hangman's house once stood near the spot.\nPlace names are usually a fairly reliable source of information about past events and activities, as with names such as Gallowayford at Kennox House in North Ayrshire near Chapeltoun. It is known that a gallows was situated here; however, it cannot be proved that a dule tree was involved. Law Mount is a common name for small earth mounds, frequently in prominent positions, such as the example near Lambroughton, Stewarton in North Ayrshire. Public hangings took place on these 'laws' or 'moot hills', some of which are or were wooded. Gallows-Knowe in Kilmarnock, East Ayrshire was the site of the gallows for the baronial court of the Boyds of Dean Castle. Gallow Law is a hill overlooking Newmilns in East Ayrshire.\n\nSir Walter Scott's Waverley novel \"Guy Mannering\" features a \"Justice Tree\" at the Castle of Ellangowan. The corpses of murderers were gibbeted and eventually buried at crossroads so that their spirits would be \"bound\" there. The living took pains to prevent the dead from wandering the land as lost souls – or even as animated corpses, for the belief in revenants was widespread in mediæval Europe.\n\n\"Weir of Hermiston\", an unfinished novel by Robert Louis Stevenson, makes reference to a dule-tree.\n\n\"The Stalls of Barchester Cathedral\", a ghost story by M.R. James, tells what became of the wood of a dule tree in the fictional town of Barchester, the tree having been known as 'the Hanging Oak'.\n\nA Scottish ballad, \"The Wronged Mason,\" tells of one Lambert Lamkin who is hanged on the dule-tree of Balwearie Castle in Fife.\n\n\"The Dule Tree\" was published in 2004 by Finavon Print in association with the Elphinstone Institute, to mark the end of Sheena Blackhall's residency as Creative Writer in Scots at the University of Aberdeen.\n\n\"The Black Douglas\" (1899) by S. R. Crockett (1859–1914) has the line \"and let that wight remember that the Douglas does not keep a dule tree up there by the Gallows Slock for nothing.\n\nGirvan was the site of the \"Hairy Tree.\" According to legend, the Hairy Tree was planted by Sawney Bean's eldest daughter in the town's Dalrymple Street. The daughter was implicated with the rest of the family in their incestuous and cannibalistic activities and was hanged by locals from the bough of the tree she herself planted. According to local legend, one can hear the sound of a swinging corpse while standing beneath its boughs.\n\nThe 1844 edition of the \"Ayrshire Wreath\" contains the story of the Dule Tree of Cassillis and its last victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281037", "title": "Emaciation", "text": "Emaciation\n\nEmaciation ( or ) is defined as extreme weight loss and unnatural thinness due to a loss of subcutaneous fat (the fatty, or adipose tissue beneath the skin) and muscle throughout the body. It affects human beings and animals; one who is emaciated could be described as \"wasting away\" or being \"gaunt.\" Emaciation is caused by severe malnourishment and starvation. Emaciation is a predominant symptom of malnourishment, a basic component of poverty and famine that also occurs with diseases that interfere with the digestive system and appetite, other systems, and eating disorders. These include nutrient deficiency disorders, diseases with prolonged fever and infection, malignant diseases, parasitic infections that can result from contamination, anorexia nervosa and other conditions. The malnourishment associated with emaciation has been referred to as \"inanition\", while infection by parasites has been described as \"adulteration\". Treatment of emaciation includes gradual renourishment with a slow increase of daily caloric intake to help rebuild tissues and regain weight. Rest, and emotional and psychological therapy and support may be included.\n\nIn humans, the overall physical appearance of emaciation includes a thinning of the limbs, upper body and buttocks to an almost skeletal-seeming state with an apparent absence of fat and muscle tone. The skin is thin, dry and translucent in some areas of the body, to the point that veins beneath the skin are somewhat visible. The face is thin and drawn with a hopeless, vacant and distressed demeanor; the eye sockets are sunken, giving the eyes a bulging appearance. The scalp is bony with dry, withering hair that is lacking. On the torso, the collar bone, chest bone and ribs are quite pronounced; the stomach is bloated, which indicates gastrointestinal distress associated with nutritional depletion. The mouth and tongue may be excessively dry, or moist with the tongue thickly coated; there is usually strong halitosis, or foul breath.\n\nThere is great fatigue, inability and lack of physical effort in the emaciated. Mental efficiency, problem solving and reasoning are somewhat impaired. The emotional state of an emaciated individual is often poor; feelings of depression, hopelessness, fear, anxiety and worthlessness may prevail. A person who is emaciated is usually submissive, both mentally and physically, to the will of others. Behavior is generally passive.\n\nThe underlying starvation, malnourishment, and usually dehydration, associated with emaciation, affect and are harmful to organ systems throughout the body. The emaciated individual experiences disturbances of the blood, circulatory, and urinary systems; these include hyponatremia and/or hypokalemia (low sodium and/or potassium in the blood, respectively), anemia (low hemoglobin), improper function of lymph (immune system-related white blood matter) and the lymphatic system, and pleurisy (fluid in the pleural cavity surrounding the lungs) and edema (swelling in general) caused by poor or improper function of the kidneys to eliminate wastes from the blood.\n\nIn most of Africa, poverty, malnutrition and disease are common. Among third world countries, India is one of the leading countries plagued by malnutrition, with more than 200 million people affected. Emaciation in India is referred to as \"shosha roga\", which means \"exploitative disease\". Diseases such as these are nutrient deficiency disorders that can cause varying degrees of emaciation based on the type of nutrient(s) chronically and persistently lacking or absent from the diet of an individual.\n\nEmaciation was also a major cause of death in Nazi concentration camps during World War II. It was largely the result of a starvation diet imposed on the inmates. It became endemic during the last stages of the war when rations were restricted even further. \n\nReduced food intake, while hunger is held on to, may also be responsible for significant weight loss. Restrictive diets can lead to significant weight loss, as can psychological problems, depression and social problems and issues; Anorexia nervosa is the psychological disease of a denial of weight loss and thinness while maintaining the same physical activity; Certain digestive diseases or ENT (discomfort food) can induce weight loss. Weight loss can also occur with a normal or even sometimes reduced food intake. An infectious disease that is accompanied by fever, tuberculosis, HIV infection, endocarditis or chronic inflammatory disease with febrile vasculitis, Behcet's disease, connective, Still's disease, sarcoidosis, certain cancers or blood diseases; a chronic disease without fever, cancer, metabolic diseases, respiratory insufficiency, hepatic or digestive diseases associated with signs of deficiency. Some neurological diseases such as Parkinson’s disease may also be the cause of significant weight loss. Poisoning such as chronic alcoholism, drug addiction or taking drugs by mistake are also common causes. Taking too much medication is a major cause of weight loss in the elderly and weak, if the medication suppresses appetite.\n\nFamine and third world conditions are usually involved. Severe emaciation can be caused by marasmus, a disorder that is seen in children who are deprived of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. Both weight and growth are affected. A similar disorder, seen in very young malnourished children, is kwashiorkor. With emaciation mostly confined to the upper body, kwashiorkor often occurs after a child has been weaned and thus deprived of protein it was getting from its mother's milk. Slight emaciation is seen with nutrition disorders such as beriberi, caused by a lack of thiamine (vitamin B1), and pellagra, caused by insufficient intake of niacin (vitamin B3). The former is mainly characterized by mental impairment, and the latter is more serious, often leading to death.\n\nOther diseases and disorders associated with emaciation include malaria and cholera, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases with prolonged fever, parasitic infections, many forms of cancer and their treatments, lead poisoning, and eating disorders like anorexia nervosa.\n\nOther than treating, curing or remedying the underlying cause of emaciation, it as a symptom is treated by regaining the weight and restoring the tissues. This is done through renourishment, or reintroducing nourishing liquids and foods to the body while increasing the intake of food energy. The process, usually begun in an individual deprived of food for a period of time, must be done slowly to avoid complications such as regurgitation and vomiting. It begins with spoonfuls of water and salted broth, advancing to increased amounts of clear liquids including broth, tea and fruit juices. This soon is advanced to full liquid diet such as milk (if no lactose intolerance is present) and cream-based soups. Once solid food is introduced, an emaciated individual is usually given up to eight small meals per day, at two-hour intervals. Meals may consist of a small milkshake to minor portions of meat with a starchy side item. For the purposes of weight gain and tissue rebuilding, the diet will be focused on proteins, fats and carbohydrates that are rich in vitamins and minerals, and relatively high in energy. Oily foods and high-fiber foods like grains and certain vegetables are discouraged because they are difficult to digest, and filling while lower in energy. Treatment of emaciation also includes much sleep, rest and relaxation, and counseling.\n\nThe appearance and effects of emaciation in animals, both wild and domestic, is like that of humans–severe thinness, loss of fat and muscle, extremely pronounced and protruding bones, and weakness. Starvation and regularly dehydration, brought on by neglect and cruelty from humans, or as a result of illness are the usual causes of emaciation in domestic animals like dogs, cats and horses; in wild animals, starvation with emaciation is caused by unavailable sources of food, loss or changes of habitat, or neglect in captivity. The rehabilitation of emaciated animals, through treating their starvation and dehydration with slow renourishment, can be challenging. The unique and specific physiological and dietary needs of animals, be they mammals, birds, reptiles, carnivores, herbivores, etc. are carefully considered to avoid causing harm.\n\n"}
{"id": "43306489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306489", "title": "Enterprise cognitive system", "text": "Enterprise cognitive system\n\nEnterprise cognitive systems (ECS) are part of a broader shift in computing, from a programmatic to a probabilistic approach, called cognitive computing. An Enterprise Cognitive System makes a new class of complex decision support problems computable, where the business context is ambiguous, multi-faceted, and fast-evolving, and what to do in such a situation is usually assessed today by the business user. An ECS is designed to synthesize a business context and link it to the desired outcome. It recommends evidence-based actions to help the end-user achieve the desired outcome. It does so by finding past situations similar to the current situation, and extracting the repeated actions that best influence the desired outcome.\n\nWhile general-purpose cognitive systems can be used for different outputs, prescriptive, suggestive, instructive, or simply entertaining, an enterprise cognitive system is focused on action, not insight, to help in assessing what to do in a complex situation.\n\nECS have to be:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29018702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29018702", "title": "Epiophlebia", "text": "Epiophlebia\n\nThe genus Epiophlebia is the sole member of the family Epiophlebiidae, which is itself the sole living representative of the Epiproctan infraorder Epiophlebioptera, and it contains only four species. The first two species were historically placed in their own suborder Anisozygoptera, considered intermediate between dragonflies and damselflies, mainly because the hind wings are very similar in size and shape to the forewings and held back over the body at rest, as in damselflies. It has more recently been recognized that the genus \"Epiophlebia\" shares a more recent ancestor with dragonflies (having become separated from these in and around the uplifting of the Himalayas), and the group has accordingly been reclassified as an infraorder within the dragonflies. Very recently a third species, \"Epiophlebia sinensis\", has been described from Heilongjiang province in northeast China, bridging the \"Epiophlebia\" distribution gap between Nepal and Japan. A fourth species is known only from larval material from South China.\n"}
{"id": "2419972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419972", "title": "Genesis and Catastrophe: A True Story", "text": "Genesis and Catastrophe: A True Story\n\n\"Genesis and Catastrophe: A True Story\" is a short story written by Roald Dahl first published in \"Playboy\" magazine and included in his 1962 book \"Kiss Kiss\". It is a fictionalized account based upon a true historical incident. It is also known as \"A Fine Son\".\n\nThe story begins with Klara, an Austrian German woman, who has just given birth to a son. She is fearful that this child will die, as she has had three children, named Otto, Gustav and Ida, previously and all of them have died. Her husband, Alois, remembers how small and frail the new baby is, even compared to the others. The doctor and midwife assure the mother that the baby is healthy. They beg the father to show more compassion toward his wife and to hope for the child's survival. The story ends with Klara praying, \"He must live, Alois. He must, he must... Oh God, be merciful unto him now...\" Her son's name is Adolf Hitler.\n\n\"Genesis and Catastrophe\" was adapted into an episode of the television series \"Tales of the Unexpected\" by Ronald Harwood in 1980 and into a short film by director Jonathan Liebesman in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2755844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755844", "title": "Gilbert Price", "text": "Gilbert Price\n\nGilbert Price (September 10, 1942 – January 2, 1991) was an American operatic baritone and actor.\n\nPrice was a protégé of Langston Hughes. He was a life member of New York's famed Actors Studio. Price first gained notice in 1964, for his performances in Hughes' Off-Broadway production of \"Jerico-Jim Crow.\" For his work, Price received a Theatre World Award.\n\nPrice was born on September 10, 1942, in New York City of African-American heritage. In 1960, he graduated from Erasmus Hall High School, where he stood out for both his talent and gentle, easygoing manner. It has been written that while he was a protégé of Langston Hughes, Hughes had become smitten with the young Price. Unpublished love poems by Hughes were addressed to a man Hughes called \"Beauty\"; it has been posited these poems referred to Price.\n\nPrice made guest appearances on several television talk and variety shows including \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", Red Skelton, Garry Moore and \"The Merv Griffin Show\". Price also sang oratorios, including Leonard Bernstein's Mass, in 1971.\n\nPrice was nominated for three Tony Awards and was the recipient of a Theatre World Award:\n\n\nPrice died in Vienna, Austria, in 1991 of accidental asphyxiation. He was 48 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "30354675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30354675", "title": "Hans Paul Bernhard Gierke", "text": "Hans Paul Bernhard Gierke\n\nHans Paul Bernhard Gierke (19 August 1847 – 8 May 1886) was a German anatomist who was a native of Stettin.\n\nGierke studied medicine in Berlin, Vienna, Leipzig, Würzburg, Breslau and Munich, graduating in Würzburg, where he obtained his doctorate in 1872. In 1874 he became prosector at Würzburg, where his teacher was Albert von Kölliker. In 1876 he was appointed professor of anatomy at the Imperial University of Tokyo. For health reasons he had to give up his academic career and return to Germany. In 1881 he became an assistant in the Physiological Institute in Breslau and in 1882 attained the title of professor extraordinarius. In 1883 he visited the Zoological Station in Naples. His health deteriorated rapidly. Soon, he died in the psychiatric hospital in Schöneberg near Berlin, at the age of 39.\n\nHe is best remembered for his research on staining methods in neurohistology and the localization of the respiratory center. The solitary tract in the brain stem is sometimes called the \"Gierke respiratory bundle\".\n\n"}
{"id": "266157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266157", "title": "Holon (philosophy)", "text": "Holon (philosophy)\n\nA holon (Greek: ὅλον, \"holon\" neuter form of ὅλος, \"holos\" \"whole\") is something that is simultaneously a whole and a part. The word was used by Arthur Koestler in his book \"The Ghost in the Machine\" (1967, p. 48) and the phrase \"to hólon\" is a greek translation from the latin word \"universum\", in the sense of \"totality, a whole\". Koestler was influenced by two observations in proposing the notion of the holon. The first observation was influenced by Herbert A. Simon's parable of the two watchmakers—in which Simon concludes that complex systems evolve from simple systems much more rapidly when there are stable intermediate forms present in the evolutionary process than if they are not present. The second observation was made by Koestler himself in his analysis of hierarchies and stable intermediate forms in non-living matter (atomic and molecular structure), living organisms, and social organizations. He concluded that, although it is easy to identify sub-wholes or parts, wholes and parts in an absolute sense do not exist anywhere. Koestler proposed the word holon to describe the hybrid nature of sub-wholes and parts within in vivo systems. From this perspective, holons exist simultaneously as self-contained wholes in relation to their sub-ordinate parts, and as dependent parts when considered from the inverse direction. \n\nKoestler also says that holons are self-reliant units that possess a degree of independence and can handle contingencies without asking higher authorities for instructions. I.e. they have a degree of autonomy. These holons are also simultaneously subject to control from one or more of these higher authorities. The first property ensures that holons are stable forms that are able to withstand disturbances, while the latter property signifies that they are intermediate forms, providing a context for the proper functionality for the larger whole. \n\nFinally, Koestler defines a holarchy as a hierarchy of self-regulating holons that function first as autonomous wholes in supra-ordination to their parts, secondly as dependent parts in sub-ordination to controls on higher levels, and thirdly in coordination with their local environment.\n\nA holon is a system (or phenomenon) that is an evolving self-organizing dissipative structure, composed of other holons, whose structures exist at a balance point between chaos and order. It is sometimes discussed in the context of self-organizing holarchic open systems (or, SOHO systems). A holon is maintained by the throughput of matter–energy and information–entropy connected to other holons and is simultaneously a whole in itself and at the same time is nested within another holon and so is a part of something much larger than itself. Holons range in size from the smallest subatomic particles and strings, all the way up to the multiverse, comprising many universes. Individual humans, their societies and their cultures are intermediate level holons, created by the interaction of forces working upon us both top-down and bottom-up. On a non-physical level, words, ideas, sounds, emotions—everything that can be identified—is simultaneously part of something, and can be viewed as having parts of its own, similar to sign in regard of semiotics. In 2013 Australian academic JT Velikovsky proposed the holon as the structure of the meme, the unit of culture, synthesizing the major theories on memes of Richard Dawkins, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, E. O. Wilson, Frederick Turner and Arthur Koestler. Defined in this way, holons are related to the concept of autopoiesis, especially as it was developed in the application of Stafford Beer to second-order cybernetics and the viable system model, but also Niklas Luhmann in his social systems theory.\n\nSince a holon is embedded in larger wholes, it is influenced by and influences these larger wholes. And since a holon also contains subsystems, or parts, it is similarly influenced by and influences these parts. Information flows bidirectionally between smaller and larger systems as well as rhizomatic contagion. When this bidirectionality of information flow and understanding of role is compromised, for whatever reason, the system begins to break down: wholes no longer recognize their dependence on their subsidiary parts, and parts no longer recognize the organizing authority of the wholes. Cancer may be understood as such a breakdown in the biological realm.\n\nA hierarchy of holons is called a holarchy. The holarchic model can be seen as an attempt to modify and modernise perceptions of natural hierarchy.\n\nKen Wilber comments that the test of holon hierarchy (\"holarchy\") is that if all instances of a given type of holon cease to exist, then all the holons they were part of must cease to exist too. Thus an atom is of a lower standing in the hierarchy than a molecule, because if you removed all molecules, atoms could still exist, whereas if you removed all atoms, molecules, in a strict sense would cease to exist. Wilber's concept is known as the doctrine of the fundamental and the significant. A hydrogen atom is more fundamental than an ant, but an ant is more significant.\n\nThe doctrine of the fundamental and the significant is contrasted by the radical rhizome oriented pragmatics of Deleuze and Guattari, and other continental philosophy.\n\nA significant feature of Koestler's concept of holarchy is that it is open ended both in the macrocosmic as well as in the microcosmic dimensions. This aspect of his theory has several important implications. For example, if we take string theory to be legitimate, the holarchic system does not begin with strings or end with the multiverse. Those are just the present limits of the reach of the human mind in the two dimensions. Humans will cross those limits eventually, because they do not encompass the whole of reality. Karl Popper (\"Objective Knowledge\", 1972) teaches that what the human mind knows and can ever know of truth at a given point of time and space is verisimilitude—something like truth—and that the human mind will continue to get closer to reality but never reach it. In other words, the human quest for knowledge is an unending journey with innumerable grand sights ahead but with no possibility of reaching the journey's end. The work of modern physicists designed to discover the theory of everything (TOE) is reaching deep into the microcosm under the assumption that the macrocosm is eventually made of the microcosm. This approach falls short on two counts: the first is that the fundamental is not the same as significant and the second is that this approach does not take into account that the microcosmic dimension is open ended. It follows that the search for TOE will discover phenomena more microcosmic than strings or the more comprehensive M theory. It is also the case that many laws of nature that apply to systems relatively low in the hierarchy cease to apply at higher levels. M theory might have predictive power at the sub-atomic level but it will inform but little about reality at higher levels. The work of the particle physicists is indeed laudable but possibly they should give the theory they are looking for another name. This is not to claim that the concept of holarchy is already the theory of everything.\n\nAn individual holon possesses a dominant monad; that is, it possesses a definable \"I-ness\". An individual holon is discrete, self-contained, and also demonstrates the quality of agency, or self-directed behavior. The individual holon, although a discrete and self-contained whole, is made up of parts; in the case of a human, examples of these parts would include the heart, lungs, liver, brain, spleen, etc. When a human exercises agency, taking a step to the left, for example, the entire holon, including the constituent parts, moves together as one unit.\n\nA social holon does not possess a dominant monad; it possesses only a definable \"we-ness\", as it is a collective made up of individual holons. In addition, rather than possessing discrete agency, a social holon possesses what is defined as nexus agency. An illustration of nexus agency is best described by a flock of geese. Each goose is an individual holon, the flock makes up a social holon. Although the flock moves as one unit when flying, and it is \"directed\" by the choices of the lead goose, the flock itself is not mandated to follow that lead goose. Another way to consider this would be collective activity that has the potential for independent internal activity at any given moment.\n\nAmerican philosopher Ken Wilber includes Artifacts in his theory of holons. Artifacts are anything (e.g. a statue or a piece of music) that is created by either an individual holon or a social holon. While lacking any of the defining structural characteristics - agency; self-maintenance; I-ness; Self Transcendence - of the previous two holons, Artifacts are useful to include in a comprehensive scheme due to their potential to replicate aspects of and profoundly affect (via, say interpretation) the previously described holons. Artifacts are made up of individual or social holons (e.g. a statue is made up of atoms).\n\nThe development of Artificial Intelligence may force one to question where the line should be drawn between the individual holon and the artifact.\n\nHeaps are defined as random collections of holons that lack any sort of organisational significance. A pile of leaves would be an example of a heap. Note, one could question whether a pile of leaves could be an \"artifact\" of an ecosystem \"social holon\". This raises a problem of intentionality: in short, if social holons create artifacts but lack intentionality (the domain of individual holons) how can we distinguish between heaps and artifacts? Further, if an artist (individual holon) paints a picture (artifact) in a deliberately chaotic and unstructured way does it become a heap?\n\nMultiagent systems are systems composed of autonomous software entities. They are able to simulate a system or solve problems. A holon, just like an agent, is an intelligent entity able to interact with the environment and to make decisions to solve a specific problem. A Holon has the noteworthy property of playing the role of a whole and a part at the same time. This reflects at the organizational level: Holarchy functions first as autonomous wholes in supra-ordination to their parts, secondly as dependent parts in sub-ordination to controls on higher levels, and thirdly in coordination with their local environment.\n\nThe SARL agent-oriented programming language is a language with native support for the concept of holon. The associated run-time environment Janus enables running the implemented holons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "674178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674178", "title": "John Eliot, 6th Earl of St Germans", "text": "John Eliot, 6th Earl of St Germans\n\nJohn Granville Cornwallis Eliot, 6th Earl of St Germans, MC was born on 11 June 1890 at 13 Grosvenor Gardens, London to Henry Cornwallis Eliot, 5th Earl of St Germans (11 February 1835 – 24 September 1911) and his wife Emily Harriett Labouchere (24 June 1844 – 18 October 1933).\n\nHe was educated at a college in St Peter Intra, Broadstairs, Kent and at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. He subsequently became a Captain in the 2nd Dragoons of the Scots Greys, and fought in the First World War, being awarded the Military Cross.\n\nHe married Lady Blanche Linnie Somerset (15 April 1897 – 30 August 1968), the eldest daughter of the 9th Duke of Beaufort, on 11 June 1918 in London and they had two daughters:\n\nJohn died on 22 March 1922 from the effects of an accident sustained during a point-to-point race at Wrangton nr Totnes, Devon. As the youngest son with no sons to inherit, his title passed to his first cousin Granville John Eliot, 7th Earl of St Germans (22 September 1867 – 20 November 1942).\n"}
{"id": "20334913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334913", "title": "John Fleming (American politician)", "text": "John Fleming (American politician)\n\nJohn Calvin Fleming Jr. (born July 5, 1951) is an American politician, physician, military veteran, and businessman who was appointed in March 2017, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Information Technology Reform in the Donald Trump administration.\n\nFrom January 3, 2009, to January 3, 2017, Fleming was the representative for Louisiana's 4th congressional district. He resides in the city of Minden in Webster Parish in northwestern Louisiana. A second cousin (five generations removed) to the former House Speaker Henry Clay of Kentucky, Fleming is a member of Sons of the American Revolution and Jamestowne Society. He is only the second Republican to hold his House seat since Reconstruction, the first was his predecessor, Jim McCrery.\nThe former congressman said that he \"plans to advocate policies that would encourage physicians to use technology in their medical practice. He hopes to remove barriers to data transfer.\" Despite his 2016 defeat for the United States Senate seat vacated by fellow Republican David Vitter, Fleming has not ruled out another run for elected office.\n\nFleming was born in Meridian in Lauderdale County in eastern Mississippi. He was reared in a working class home. While he was still young, his mother became disabled and could no longer work. Just prior to Fleming's high school graduation, Fleming's father died of a heart attack. This forced him to finance his education with odd jobs and loans. Fleming attended the University of Mississippi at Oxford, where he was a member of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1973. He later attended medical school at the Jackson campus of the same university, earning an M.D. in 1976. In 1979, Fleming completed a medical residency with the United States Navy. Subsequently, Fleming stayed in the Navy another three years, serving until 1982 when he moved his family to and set up a private family medicine practice in Minden, Louisiana. He has served as a deacon, Sunday school teacher, and Sunday school department director at First Baptist of Minden. Fleming also trained for years in karate attaining the rank of third degree black belt. He took his first piano lesson at age 43 and ultimately studied for 14 years afterwards, playing the occasional recital and concert. Fleming and his wife, Cindy, married in 1978. The couple has four children.\n\nFleming was chief resident in family medicine at the Naval Regional Medical Center in Camp Pendleton, California. He also trained at the drug and alcohol treatment unit at the Navy Regional Medical Center in Long Beach, California. Serving in the Navy after his residency, Fleming practiced family medicine on the island of Guam. From 1979 to 1981, he was the director of drug and alcohol treatment and chairman of the Navy Family Advocacy Committee. He subsequently performed similar duties in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nAfter leaving the Navy, Fleming established a practice in Minden in August 1982. His first clinic was on Pearl Street across from the United States Post Office. He chose Minden for his city of residence because, in his words, it \"has small-town charm, warm essence of life, long, lazy summer days with watermelon cuts and family reunions.\" To attract patients to his new practice, Fleming announced evening and Saturday morning hours to accommodate working people and students.\n\nFleming is board certified by the American Board of Family Medicine He joined the staff of the Minden Medical Center. Fleming is also a member of the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) and the Louisiana Academy of Family Physicians (LAFP). In 2007, he was chosen as the LAFP \"Louisiana Family Practice Physician of the Year.\"\n\nFleming previously worked with chemically dependent persons through the program called \"New Beginnings\" at the Minden Medical Center. In 1994, the \"Minden Press-Herald\" revealed Dr. Fleming's call \"to end violence and drug addiction. I link these two together because I believe most of the violence we see is caused by addiction to, or buying and selling of drugs.\"\n\nIn 2006, Fleming wrote \"Preventing Addiction: What Parents Must Know to Immunize Their Kids Against Drug And Alcohol Addiction.\" In the book, Fleming argues that alcohol, among other addicting substances, can serve as a gateway for broader and more problematic drug use, and that the immature brain development of children make them vulnerable to drug addiction later in life. Therefore, delaying the use of alcohol and other addicting substances until later adolescence or adulthood can sharply reduce the risk of later addiction according to scientific studies initiated by the National Institute on Drug Abuse and others.\n\nFleming is also a businessman who owns thirty-six Subway sandwich shops in north Louisiana employing over 500 Louisianans; and Fleming Expansions, LLC, a regional developer for The UPS Store, with outlets in Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.\n\nIn 1987, Fleming entered the race for Webster Parish coroner against the incumbent, the late Dr. Charles Hancock, but withdrew after learning the position would take too much time from his regular medical duties. In 1995, he ran for coroner again. He defeated the nonpartisan candidate, Dr. Carlos A. Irizarry, 7,842 votes (60.4 percent) to 5,143 (39.6 percent). Fleming succeeded Democratic incumbent Dr. Carl A. Hines, from Minden, who did not seek re-election.\n\nFleming entered the race for the District 4 House seat after the 21-year Republican incumbent Jim McCrery announced his retirement from the House. He received political support from the LAFP and the American Academy of Family Physicians' (AAFP) political action committee for his campaign. Fleming supported the FairTax, which would eliminate the federal income tax and replace it with a flat sales tax.\n\nIn the October 4, 2008, Republican closed primary, Fleming ran against Jeff R. Thompson, a lawyer from Bossier City, and Chris Gorman. In the election, no candidate received a majority of the votes. Fleming led with 14,500 votes (35.1 percent), followed by Gorman with 14,072 votes (34.1 percent), and Thompson with 12,693 votes (30.8 percent). This established a primary runoff between Fleming and Gorman. In the runoff, Fleming defeated Gorman, 43,012 votes (55.6 percent) to 34,405 (44.4 percent) and carried all but one of the thirteen parishes in the district.\n\nIn the 2006 race against McCrery, \"Catfish\" Kelley ran as a Republican and drew 12 percent of the vote under the old primary format. In 2008, his 3 percent was far more than the margin between Fleming and Carmouche. A plurality is sufficient to win the general election—which, along with the District 2 race, were the last congressional races in the nation in 2008.\n\nOutgoing Vice President Dick Cheney appeared in Shreveport on November 21 to speak at a fundraiser for Fleming. Politico.com indicated that McCrery supports Fleming but had made no official endorsement and had not appeared at any of Fleming's campaign events. On December 2, McCrery spoke on Fleming's behalf in an appearance on \"The Moon Griffon Show\" radio program, which is syndicated in most Louisiana media markets. He used the argument that Carmouche, if successful, would cast his first vote for Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California.\n\nOn December 10, 2008, Paul Carmouche formally conceded the election to Fleming. Among the Democrats whom Carmouche defeated in his primary was later State Senator John Milkovich of Shreveport.\n\nFleming was unopposed in the Republican primary in 2010 but was challenged by the Democratic nominee, David R. Melville. Governor Buddy Roemer, a former Democrat, then a Republican and later a failed candidate for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination; supported David Melville, his brother-in-law, in the general election. Fleming was reelected saying that Democratic policies were out of step with his district and most of America.\n\nFleming was unopposed by a Democratic candidate in his 2012 re-election bid in his district that is 2 to 1 Democratic registration but had a Cook PVI of R +11. In the November 6, 2012, general election, Fleming instead faced opposition from a Libertarian candidate, Randall Lord of Shreveport, a former chiropractor studying psychology at Louisiana State University in Shreveport. Fleming defeated Lord, 187,790 (75.3 percent) to 61,587 (24.7 percent). Lord was subsequently sentenced to 46 months in federal prison for financial scams related to illegal narcotic drug distribution.\n\nOn April 4, 2013, Fleming announced that he would not in 2014 seek the United States Senate held since 1997 by the Democratic Mary Landrieu. Instead his colleague, U.S. Representative Bill Cassidy of Baton Rouge, had announced on April 3 that he would challenge Landrieu. In his statement, Fleming said: \"For me to enter the race now would risk a contest between two experienced Republican congressmen, potentially offering Senator Landrieu a path back to Washington. I can't let that happen.\"\n\nOn December 10, 2014, KTBS, a Shreveport based ABC television station, reported that Fleming was considering running for the Senate seat held by David Vitter, who ran in the 2015 gubernatorial election. Vitter would have had to vacate his seat were he elected as governor. In a statement, Fleming said \"If Senator Vitter is elected as Governor, I would certainly be interested in running for the seat he would vacate.\"\n\nOn December 7, 2015, Fleming officially announced his candidacy for the United States Senate. He was a candidate to succeed fellow Republican David Vitter, who did not seek a third term in 2016. Vitter lost the gubernatorial runoff election on November 21, 2015, to the Democrat John Bel Edwards. Others who sought the Senate seat that Vitter vacated were Fleming's House colleague and fellow physician, Charles Boustany of Lafayette, former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, Foster Campbell of Bossier Parish, a Democratic member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission and an advisor to John Bel Edwards, Democrat Caroline Fayard, and State Treasurer John Neely Kennedy of Madisonville, the ultimate winner of the position.\n\n\"I not only fought the liberals in Washington, I also fought the leadership of my own party when they were all too willing to compromise on our conservative principles,\" Fleming said in his statement of candidacy. Fleming finished in fifth place in the primary election with 204,026 votes (11 percent), just behind the Democrat Caroline Fayard, who drew 12 percent of the ballots cast. He amassed pluralities in seven parishes, six of which are in his House district: Bossier, Claiborne, Grant, Lincoln (Louisiana's 5th congressional district), Sabine, Webster, and Vernon.\n\nFleming served four 2-year terms in the United States House of Representatives from January 3, 2009, to January 3, 2017.\n\nFleming served on the Committee on Natural Resources and chaired the Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs. As such he introduced legislation to raise the price of the Federal Duck Stamp by $10 to $25, bringing the stamp in line with inflation as an increase had not occurred for many years. The purpose of the legislation was to preserve habitat in critical migratory waterfowl flyways to allow duck populations to grow. The legislation was supported by hunting groups, including Ducks Unlimited, the National Rifle Association, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. The Fleming Duck Stamp bill passed the House and Senate by voice vote and was signed into law by President Obama on December 18, 2014, as it had broad bipartisan support. Hunters and conservationists liked it as it generated more revenue to preserve habitat for waterfowl. Conservatives supported it because all additional revenues were dedicated to land easements rather than federalizing private land.\n\nOn April 4, 2016, Fleming introduced the \"Tom Stagg Federal Building and United States Courthouse\" bill. It was named for the Honorable Thomas Eaton Stagg Jr., who served with distinction as judge for the federal court in 1984 to 2015. It ultimately passed the Senate and was signed into law on December 8, 2016. Stagg was appointed by President Richard Nixon to serve as a federal judge for the United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana.\n\nOn October 13, 2009, Fleming introduced the Amtrak Secure Transportation of Firearms Act. It was supported by the National Rifle Association. The bill passed the House and Senate and was signed into law by President Obama in December 2009.\n\nOn March 22, 2016, Fleming introduced the Conscience Protection Act of 2016 which \"amends the Public Health Service Act to codify the prohibition against the federal government and state and local governments that receive federal financial assistance for health-related activities penalizing or discriminating against a health care provider based on the provider's refusal to be involved in, or provide coverage for, abortion.\" If enacted it would give access to courts (heretofore unavailable) by healthcare providers who feel they have been discriminated against because of their refusal (based on conscience) to provide abortion services. For legislative expediency the text was put into a Senate shell bill\nS. 304. It was ultimately passed by the House and Senate, but President Obama refused to sign it into law.\n\nBy federal law, federal funding is required to be withheld from states who do not enforce the Weldon Amendment that prevents discrimination against healthcare providers if they refuse to provide abortion services. In 2014, California began enforcing a 1975 state law requiring all insurance companies to charge and cover all subscribers for abortion services, even if they object based on religious or conscience beliefs. President Obama refused to enforce the federal statute against this, violating the Weldon Amendment in the opinion of Fleming and many others. Fleming introduced legislation to provide health insurance subscribers a choice to purchase plans that do not cover abortions.\n\nWith each congressional session, Fleming introduced this bill designed to improve convenience and lower tax-filing costs to seniors. Though a senior's income may be limited to only Social Security benefits, the IRS requires all senior citizens to use the long form 1040 to file taxes. This act was designed to reduce the senior taxpayer filing to one simple page saving time, complexity and cost.\n\nDuring the debate over healthcare reform in Congress in 2009, Congressman Fleming recognized that members of Congress were likely to be exempted from the mandates and higher premiums expected from the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. On July 13, 2009, he introduced H. Res. 615, \"expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that members who vote in favor of the establishment of a public, federal government-run health insurance option are urged to forgo their right to participate in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) and agree to enroll under that public option.\" The resolution created a public outcry, after an interview of Fleming by Fox News' Meghan Kelly, demanding that members of Congress should also be subject to Obamacare. Consequently, language was placed in the Affordable Care Act requiring members of Congress and their staff to leave the more affordable Federal Employees Health Benefits Program with much lower premiums and deductibles, and obtain healthcare insurance through the DC Exchange, a product of the Affordable Care Act.\n\nThe Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) was signed into law in 2010. Dr. Fleming was vociferously opposed to, and voted against the health care law. He and his House Republican colleagues voted at full strength over fifty times to repeal the unpopular law prior to 2017. Citing the over eighteen new taxes, mandates on employers and individuals, and the newly mandated set of essential health benefits; Fleming emphasized how Obamacare would damage the economy and reduce access to affordable healthcare for many and fail to provide promised coverage for more Americans. He also called Obamacare \"the most dangerous piece of legislation ever passed by Congress.\" When asked about fixing the healthcare law instead of repealing it, he said it was \"not fixable or repairable.\" He believed, instead, in a market-based healthcare system through which competition can reduce costs and waste, and improve quality and effectiveness of the nation's healthcare system.\n\nIn September 2013, Congressman Fleming helped write, cosponsored and introduced the Republican Study Committee's American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 and again in 2015, which would repeal the soon-to-be-implemented Affordable Care Act. Instead of raising taxes, adding mandates and creating massive amounts of regulations to the healthcare system, the American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 was designed to increase competition among providers by taking down state line barriers for health insurance, creating price transparency, tax equity between individual and employer plans, and liberalizing health savings accounts. It would create large buying co-ops for small businesses, and form strong high risk pools among other mechanisms to deal with pre-existing illness.\n\nThe ACA sharply restricted the use of health savings accounts, though they had been popular since their inception in 2003. In 2013, Congressman Fleming introduced Helping Save Americans' Health Care Choices Act, an expansion of health savings accounts in healthcare policy. Health savings accounts function to allow pre-taxed savings to be used to bridge the cost of deductible and co-payment gaps in healthcare purchasing. Much of it was incorporated into the American Health Care Reform Act of 2013. It was introduced again in 2015 by the title of HSA Health Care Choices Act of 2015.\n\nThe Bush tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 could not be made permanent because they were passed under Budget Reconciliation. They expired in 2010 but were renewed temporarily for two years through the bipartisan compromise Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. This led to the eventual passage of the President Obama's Proposed Plan to Increase Taxes which kept taxes low on lower income earners but raised taxes above the Bush Tax Cuts rate on small businesses and higher earners. Congressman Fleming was outspoken on the subject supporting tax cuts for all Americans. He agreed with many economists who said tax increases would damage the economy and jobs, and that federal taxes and spending should be cut to achieve a faster American economic growth rate.\n\nIn a September 19, 2011, interview on MSNBC in which Fleming was critical of President Obama's proposed plan to increase taxes, he was questioned about the reported $6.3 million of gross revenues his private restaurant company received the previous year. Fleming responded to host Chris Jansing by saying, \"that's before you pay 500 employees, you pay rent, you pay equipment, and food\" (business overhead); \"the actual net income was a mere fraction of that...It is more like $600,000 of that $6.3 million...So by the time I feed my family I have, maybe $400,000 left over to invest in new locations, upgrade my locations, buy more equipment.\" When Jansing asked Fleming if he thought the \"average person\" might be unsympathetic to Fleming's position, Fleming responded, \"Class warfare never created a job...This is not about attacking people who make certain incomes. You know in this country, most people feel that being successful in their business is a virtue, not a vice, and once we begin to identify it as a vice, this country is going down.\"\n\nFleming's remarks were widely reported and resulted in considerable commentary. Bruce Alpert, of Louisiana newspaper \"The Times-Picayune,\" reported that \"on liberal blogs, Fleming was portrayed as insensitive to millions of working Americans who are struggling to meet expenses in the face of high unemployment and stagnant wages.\" Conservative sources including Bill O'Reilly and the Drudge Report defended Fleming's remarks. Josh Beavers, publisher of the \"Minden Press-Herald\" in Fleming's hometown, wrote an editorial which stated, \"[Fleming's] sentiment was only that the more taxes he pays the fewer people he can employ. High taxes on business owners thwart economic activity.\"\n\nFleming, and his fellow congressional Republicans, began the 111th Congress in 2009 with Democrats attaining a supermajority in the House and Senate, and the Presidency. In reaction to a series of progressive bills enacted into law including the Stimulus bill, the Affordable Care Act, and the Dodd-Frank Act; conservatives across America created a number of local activist groups, collectively called the Tea Party Movement. Republicans in the House and their supporters became determined to regain the House to stop the sudden progressive shift in federal government policy. Republican House members, led by then House Minority Leader John Boehner, created the Pledge to America that outlined a platform to reverse the growth in government spending as well as to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and other items. During the 2010 elections, many House Republican candidates ran on the Pledge to America platform with enthusiastic support from the Tea Party Movement. The 2010 election year ended with Republicans taking the majority by winning 63 seats from Democrats.\n\nThe high expectations of conservative constituents of Republican House members, generally, and Speaker John Boehner, particularly; led to conflict and division among House members. A number of conservative members from within the House Republican Study Committee, began to resist initiatives led by Speaker Boehner when he appeared to be overly cooperative (in the view of conservatives) with House Democrats and President Obama on issues like taxes, the Affordable Care Act and illegal immigration and appeared to be not committed to the Pledge to America. When Speaker Boehner was reluctantly forced by conservative members to lead a shutdown of the federal government over the implementation and funding of the Affordable Care Act, John Boehner began to retaliate against individual Republican members who were critical of Boehner and the rest of the House leadership for not adequately (in the view of conservatives) resisting the progressive policies of President Obama and congressional Democrats. Retaliations ranged from removing House members from congressional committees and positions of committee leadership, to supporting Republican primary candidates to oppose them. Also, the Republican Study Committee, through its open policy to all Republican members (growing to over 170 members), transitioned from a smaller conservative group to one that aligned itself with the more establishment-oriented policies of Speaker Boehner.\n\nIn January 2015, feeling that the Republican Study Committee had become too establishment-aligned and insufficiently conservative, and citing Speaker Boehner's continued political battle against conservative members; nine House members came together in a series of meetings to consider and ultimately create a more nimble, consistently conservative group consisting of approximately 40 conservative House members. They formed an official congressional caucus and named it the House Freedom Caucus. Congressman Fleming of Louisiana was among the nine founding members. Once fully organized, the House Freedom Caucus began to oppose Boehner policies leading to continued divisions and conflicts within the Republican House Conference. In July 2015, Freedom Caucus member, Mark Meadows of North Carolina, without warning; submitted a written motion to vacate the chair (of the Speaker of the House). Though rarely done, it is a privileged motion meaning that any member can submit and trigger a series of parliamentary procedures culminating in a new vote for Speaker of the House. The motion accelerated the pressure on Boehner, whose popularity had declined considerably, nationally and among House Republicans in general. Spurred by the timing of the visit to the Capitol by Pope Francis; Speaker Boehner, a devout Catholic, announced his resignation as Speaker and as a member of Congress on September 25, 2017. Fleming, in addition to being among the nine founding members of the House Freedom Caucus, also served on the first Freedom Caucus board of directors and led the effort to impeach the Commissioner of the IRS.\n\nSoon after the Tea Party Movement began in 2009, local and national Tea Party organizations began to complain that the IRS would not approve their applications for tax exempt status, a certification necessary for the viability of nonprofit organizations. In 2013, Lois Lerner, a high level IRS employee, disclosed as Director of Rulings and Agreements in the Exempt Organizations, that the conservative Tea Party organizations were targeted by the IRS to be denied tax exempt status while liberal groups were given the appropriate certifications. This created the appearance that Lerner was using her power in the IRS for political and ideological benefit. Because of the IRS targeting controversy, Lerner was forced to retire and John Koskinen was appointed to replace the acting Commissioner to restore integrity of the IRS.\n\nInvestigations into the IRS targeting controversy were held by the House Oversight Committee, chaired by Jason Chaffetz. Koskinen was instructed to protect and turn over all records relating to the controversy. However, under Koskinen, the vast amount of documentation, including computer backup tapes, were destroyed. Chaffetz issued a document to begin impeachment proceedings against Koskinen saying, \"he failed to comply with a congressionally issued subpoena, documents were destroyed on his watch, and the public was consistently misled. Impeachment is the appropriate tool to restore public confidence in the IRS and to protect the institutional interests of Congress.\" However, Republican House leadership did not bring the impeachment to the floor for a vote.\n\nWith the support of the House Freedom Caucus, Fleming utilized a rarely-used parliamentary procedure called a privileged motion to force a vote on impeachment of Koskinen. Fleming went to the floor of the House and read the motion on July 13, 2016, after filing it in writing the day before. Though the motion required a vote on impeachment, House leadership and the Freedom Caucus negotiated a compromise for Koskinen to return for an additional hearing to learn more about his actions in the scandal. Koskinen returned, voluntarily, on September 21, 2016, to face an impeachment hearing during which he admitted to his \"failings\" in getting to the bottom of the IRS targeting controversy.\n\nAs Fleming entered Congress in 2009, use of social media such as Facebook and Twitter emerged as methods for members to connect directly with their constituents. In 2010 the House Republican Conference created the \"New Media Challenge\" to spur Republican members to acquire more followers. Fleming was awarded first place in both 2010 ad 2011 by his Republican peers.\n\nBeginning about 2005, critics claimed that Christians in the military caught proselytizing should be court-martialed. Subsequently, military members came forward claiming they were being punished by their military superiors for what they viewed as reasonable religious expression, a violation of the First Amendment. In June 2013, Fleming sponsored an amendment to the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act requiring the military \"to accommodate, except in cases of military necessity, actions and speech, reflecting the conscience, moral principles, or religious beliefs of the member.\" The amendment drew objections from the White House, with a spokesman saying that commanders need discretion to, \"address potentially problematic speech and actions within their units\" and that the measure would \"have a significant adverse effect on good order, discipline, morale and mission accomplishment.\" The amendment passed with a bipartisan vote by the House Armed Services Committee. A similar measure passed the Senate and compromise language was adopted into the final NDAA signed into law.\n\nThe Army Chaplain Corps was implemented July 29, 1775, by George Washington, then the general of the Continental Army. Of chaplains Washington said, \"Common decency, Sir, in a camp calls for the services of a divine, and which ought not to be dispensed with, altho' the world should be so uncharitable as to think us void of religion, and incapable of good instructions.\" By definition a chaplain is a religious minister assigned to a secular institution. During 2013, attempts were made by an atheist to join the military as a chaplain. In July 2013, the U.S. House passed a measure, sponsored by Fleming, that bars the Defense Department from appointing atheist chaplains. Fleming said, \"The notion of an atheist chaplain is nonsensical; it's an oxymoron.\" Democratic Congressman Rob Andrews of New Jersey said that it was \"wrong\" to tell an irreligious service member that they \"must go to a mental health professional in order to receive counseling, rather than someone who comes from their philosophical faith or tradition.\" Fleming ended the debate by saying, \"an atheist chaplain is the last person in the world that a dying soldier should meet with when they need that last moment of counseling in their life.\" The amendment passed into the 2014 House DOD appropriations bill For his work on religious freedom and material support of the military chaplaincy during his tenure on the House Armed Services Committee, Fleming was given the first ever Torchbearer for Religious Freedom award in 2014 by the Chaplain Alliance for Religious Liberty.\n\nIn 2009 Fleming stood up and co-chaired this bipartisan congressional caucus to \"sustain both the land- and sea-based long range strike capabilities.\"\n\nFleming, based on his training, experience and interest, was the Republican co-chair of this bipartisan congressional caucus that promotes addiction treatment and prevention.\n\nFleming served as co-chair of VAT, a House caucus, that met regularly with interest groups in support of legislation and court decisions that are pro-life and pro-traditional family.\n\nIn 2012, Fleming attracted attention for sharing an article from the satirical news source \"The Onion\" (titled \"Planned Parenthood Opens $8 Billion Abortionplex\") with his Facebook followers with the apparently sincere message, \"More on Planned Parenthood, abortion by wholesale\". He deleted the post after commenters highlighted the article's satirical nature.\n\nAfter Republicans took control of the United States House of Representatives In 2011, a debate emerged over how to bring deficit spending under control after it ballooned to over $1.3 trillion annually from 2009-2011. A compromise deal was struck, called the Budget Control Act of 2011, between Republican Speaker John Boehner and President Obama that would create a bipartisan and bicameral \"super committee\" in Congress to decide how to equitably lower discretionary spending. According to the act, automatic and substantial cuts would be made to both national defense and non-defense discretionary spending in the federal budget if the committee did not come to an agreement to specific and targeted budget cuts. The \"super committee\" could not come to an agreement leading to the automatic cuts to national defense and domestic spending. Fleming opposed and voted against the Budget Control Act of 2011 as he feared it would ultimately lead to devastating cuts to national defense, which it did.\n\nFleming was quoted in \"Forbes\" as saying: \"Republicans in general, we desperately want a reduction in spending to get government back into balance. We would rather take some cuts in areas that we are not comfortable with than have no cuts at all.\" \"Forbes\" noted that Fleming's district includes Barksdale Air Force Base and Fort Polk, both major military installations. At a discussion in February 2013 in DeRidder; Fleming, a military veteran, stated he would not vote to allow the government to cut $600 million from the defense budget. Fleming was well-known to be a supporter of the military and its personnel and the need to reverse the devastating cuts since the Budget Control Act of 2011 was implemented. He was quoted as saying, \"One way my service in the military changes the way I do my job is that I understand our next conflict is not a matter of 'if' but 'when,' and that we need to equip our military with the resources and tools they need to protect our nation at home and abroad.\"\nFleming voted against the Budget Control Act of 2011, that caused the automatic budget sequestration in March 2013.\nOn November 21, 2011, Fleming criticized the Budget Control Act because of what he called \"devastating cuts to military spending.\"\n\nOn June 12, 2017, the newly confirmed Secretary of Defense, Jim Mattis, said of Sequestration, \"(he) was 'shocked' upon his return to the Pentagon by the poor state of the U.S. military's readiness for combat.\" He was further quoted as saying, \"(DoD) needs years to correct effects of Sequestration.\"\n\nFleming was a staunch advocate in protecting unborn human life. He voted against taxpayer funding of abortion through the Affordable Care Act, Planned Parenthood and other programs that fund abortion through federal tax dollars. He opposed the use of abortion to choose sex, gender, color or race of the child, or the race of a parent.\n\nIn support of religious liberty and right of conscience, Fleming supported the company, Hobby Lobby, in its position to refuse to fund, through its healthcare insurance program, abortion or abortifacients for its employees under the Affordable Care Act. The Supreme Court of the United States ultimately ruled in favor of Hobby Lobby. He also opposed military sanctions against its members for openly expressing religious views.\n\nIn 2012, before the \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" Supreme Court decision, Fleming condemned a marriage-like ceremony that took place at Fort Polk, Louisiana, between an enlisted woman and civilian woman. (Fort Polk, a U.S. Army base, lies within Fleming's congressional district.) Fleming said that the ceremony \"should not have occurred at Fort Polk, especially since the people of Louisiana have made it abundantly clear that our state does not recognize same-sex marriages or civil unions\" and characterized the event as part of a \"liberal social experiment with our military.\"\n\nFleming condemned the Supreme Court's 2015 decision of \"Obergefell v. Hodges\", which found a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. Fleming stated that he was \"greatly disappointed\" and disagreed with the decision. Fleming was also a co-sponsor of The First Amendment Defense Act, a bill designed to protect religious institutions from being forced to perform marriage or other ceremonies that violate their teachings.\n\nUpon his election to the United States House of Representatives, Fleming was assigned to these committees:\n\n\n\nAfter completing four terms in the United States House of Representatives, Dr. Fleming was appointed Deputy Secretary of Health Technology Reform in Health and Human Services on March 23, 2017, by President Donald Trump. On being appointed, Fleming said, \"I just want to be a part of taking down the barriers that are preventing innovation (in healthcare).\" During his private medical practice work, Fleming was an early adopter of (EHRs) Electronic Health Records. He implemented his first system in 1997 and said his practice was fully paperless by 1999. He was assigned, primarily, to the Office of the National Coordinator, an agency within HHS. Fleming noted that for years after implementing his EHR, adoption rates of EHRs among his healthcare colleagues remained low until the implementation of the HITECH Act in 2009 in which around $30 billion in cash incentives were used to encourage health professionals to purchase EHRs. He reported that by 2017 adoption rates among hospitals was over 95% and over 85% among physician offices.\n\nFleming has been a strong advocate of technology innovation and believes \"the future of healthcare technology is tied to two core goals: improving the usability of health IT systems and interoperability.\" He also stated that interoperability \"would be sparked by every American having a single, unified health record that resides in the cloud.\" He lamented the problems with the current fractionated nature of EHRs being disbursed among a myriad of healthcare providers tends to defeat the purpose of information technology to improve access to medical information and healthcare in general.\n\nRelated to technology, Fleming advocated (ACOs) accountable care organizations as a method to streamline healthcare purchasing instead of the traditional fee for service system still mostly used today. Of fee for service Fleming said, \"If you're paying for service, you'll get service, whether the outcomes are good or not.\" He has supported the need to produce and use data to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of healthcare as evidenced by the statement, \"how do you pay for outcomes without good data? We need better methods for getting data into the system and delivering it to you, and we're working on doing that. There is a good marriage between pay-for-value and data\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42182310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42182310", "title": "Kurt Walter Bachstitz", "text": "Kurt Walter Bachstitz\n\nKurt Walter Bachstitz (4 October 1882 – 1949 in The Hague) was a German-Austrian art dealer. He died shortly before his naturalization to the Netherlands.\n\nBachstitz was born as the child of the Jewish couple Liber Jacob Bachstitz and Mathilde Markowitz. His place of birth is arguable. All contemporary sources mention the formerly German Breslau (the present-day Polish Wrocław) as his place of birth. But Bachstitz requested for himself the Austrian village Raipoltenbach as his place of birth when he claimed at the U.S. Department of Labor for an extension of his temporary stay in 1931. He studied architecture in Paris, London and Vienna where he finished his studies with a diploma. On the outbreak of the First World War he was called up for military service and served between 1914 and 1918 as an officer, lastly in the rank of a troop captain. He served actively in the field until 1916, when he was severely wounded. He married Elfriede Pesé (died in 1918) with whom he had two children – a son Walter Werner Michael who died in 1943 by tuberculosis in Switzerland and a daughter, Margit Martha who died in South Africa in 1982. On 19 December 1918 he married his second wife Elisa (\"Lilly\") Emma Hofer. Lilly was a Protestant. Because of her Bachstitz converted to the evangelic faith. In 1919 he apparently lived and traded in Munich. In his diary Thomas Mann wrote about a meeting in Bachstitz' Munich apartment, where Mann bought a work from Bachstitz. He described him quite prerogatively as a \"blond-Jewish\" example of an \"international culture-capitalistic profiteer\". In 1920 he established an art dealership in the Hague named Kunsthandel K.W. Bachstitz (Bachstitz Gallery N.V.). Surinamestraat 11, He lived in Vienna and in Berlin and he created an internationally known company with art galleries in The Hague, New York City and Berlin. Lilly was the sister of art dealer Walter Andreas Hofer who had managed the Gallery in The Hague for a while and subsequently became an art buyer for Hermann Göring.\n\nIn 1937 Bachstitz waived his Austrian citizenship. In 1938 the couple moved to The Hague.\n\nBetween the beginning of the German occupation in 1940 and 1941 Bachstitz sold a number of paintings to the \"\" that was run by Hitler's Special Representative of the planned 'Führermuseum' in Linz, Hans Posse until his death in 1942.\n\nAmong the works sold to the Sonderauftrag were the following:\n\nThe correspondence between Bachstitz and Posse concerning these works is preserved. Posse achieved high price reductions.\n\n\nIn February 1941 Bachstitz officially resigned as supervisory director of the Bachstitz Gallery and his wife became the managing director. Together with his wife, he continued to provide a clandestine management role. In this way, they avoided having the Gallery placed under the forced administration for the duration of the war. According to the documents in the file concerning his successful application to become a Dutchman after the war the couple provided undercover protection for Jews trying to escape the authorities.\n\nIn 1942 Bachstitz was summoned by the occupation authority (the \"Wirtschaftsamt\") as he had failed to register the gallery as \"non-Aryan property\". Proceedings were commenced against him and he was arrested by the Sicherheitsdienst (SD) in July 1943 and imprisoned in the Scheveningen prison in The Hague. Due to an intervention of Göring initiated by Bachstitz' brother-in-law Hofer, he was released from prison. He was then also exempted from wearing the Star of David. Furthermore, the couple had their marriage dissolved in September 1943 to prevent the confiscation of the gallery by the occupying authority.\n\nBetween 1942 und 1944 Bachstitz sold a number of works to the museums that were run by Kurt Martin, the head of the Museums of the Upper Rhine (Alsace and Baden) under Robert Heinrich Wagner.\n\nIn 1944 Bachstitz managed to obtain permission to leave the Netherlands and he emigrated to Switzerland, again with the help of Andreas Hofer.\n\nAs a bribe for the exit visa Bachstitz had to hand over art to Hermann Göring, namely a painting with the Samson and Delilah motive by Jan Steen, as well two antique necklaces.\n\nAfter the war the Allies returned most of the art that the gallery had sold to German authorities to the Netherlands. The Netherlands restituted the painting by Jan Steen but rejected an application for the restitution of the other works. They became part of the Collection of the Stichting Nederlands Kunstbezit (SNK). Kurt Walter Bachsitz and Lilly Bachstitz-Hofer were again registered as officially married. Kurt Walter Bachstitz died in 1949. In 1951 his widow liquidated the Bachstitz Gallery N.V. with a high deficit. The gallery's art library was auctioned off.\n\nIn 2009 the Dutch government restituted the painting \"Roman Capriccio\" by Pietro Capelli from the stock of the SNK to Kurt Walter Bachstitz' grandchildren. The Restitution Committee of the Netherlands denied though a restitution claim concerning a number of other works, among them the works sold to Hitler (Sonderauftrag Linz). In view of most of these works the Committee argued that these sales had not been made under duress because Kurt Walter Bachstitz had been left \"undisturbed\" in 1940 and 1941. The grandchildren applied in 2013 for the re-opening of the case in this regard.\n\nIn July 2013 the Prussian Heritage Foundation restituted a Tyrolean gothic wall-mounted writing slate (c. 1500) and a large 16th-century Italian bronze mortar.\nKurt Walter Bachstitz' grandchildren are still searching for many works of art that were lost due to National-Socialist persecution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10185236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10185236", "title": "Kyllikki Saari", "text": "Kyllikki Saari\n\nAuli Kyllikki Saari (December 6, 1935 – May 17, 1953) was a 17-year-old Finnish girl whose murder in 1953 is one of the most infamous cases of homicide ever in Finland. Her murder in Isojoki remains unsolved.\n\nSaari was last seen alive on May 17, 1953. She was cycling home from a prayer meeting when, it is believed, she was attacked by an unidentified person. The authorities speculated that the murderer may have had a sexual motive, but no evidence has been produced to support this theory. Although the crime received notable media attention, the murderer has never been identified. Saari's remains were found on October 11, 1953 in a bog. Her bicycle was discovered in a marshy area later that year. Funeral services were held at Isojoki Church on October 25, 1953; an estimated 25,000 people attended.\n\nInitially, the prime suspect in the case was , a parish priest who remained under investigation for several years. Kanervo had moved to Merikarvia three weeks before the murder, and had been reported as having been in the area on the evening of Saari's disappearance. An investigation determined Kanervo had been dean of the party and spent the late night hours in the parsonage. With all but 20 minutes of his time accounted for, the authorities deduced the priest could not have had enough time to go to Isojoki (60 kilometres away from Merikarvia), as he did not have a drivers license or a car.\n\nAssmann's wife reported that her husband and his driver were near Isojoki at the time of the murder. Assmann also owned a light-brown Opel, the same type of car several witnesses had seen near the murder scene. In 1997, Assmann reportedly confessed his involvement in the crime to a former police officer, Matti Paloaro, and claimed responsibility for the death of Kyllikki Saari. Assmann's story to the officer claimed the death was caused by an automobile accident when his car, driven by his chauffeur, collided with Saari; to conceal the evidence of the driver's involvement, the two men staged the case as a murder. According to Paloaro, Assmann said on his deathbed, \"One thing however, I can tell you right away ... because it is the oldest one, and in a way it was an accident, that had to be covered up. Otherwise, our trip would have been revealed. Even though my friend was a good driver, the accident was unavoidable. I assume you know what I mean.\"\n\nAssmann's wife also reported that one of her husband's socks was missing and his shoes were wet when he returned home the evening of the murder. There were also dents in the car. According to Mrs. Assmann, a few days later, Assmann and his driver left again, but this time they had a shovel with them. Later investigators determined that Kyllikki's murderer must have been left-handed, which Assmann was.\n\nAssmann is also alleged to have been the perpetrator of the Lake Bodom murders, which occurred in 1960.\n\nVihtori Lehmusviita was in a mental hospital for long periods, and died in 1967, following which his case was set aside. The man police generally held as a murderer was, at the time, a 38-year-old local inhabitant. He was living within a 1–2 km radius of the site. In the 1940s, Lehmusviita was found guilty of a sexual offense, and had a mental illness. The police suspected that the murderer got help and cover-up from the 37-year-old brother-in-law of Lehmusviita, who had a criminal background. The suspect's mother and sister gave him an alibi for the evening of the murder, saying that he was in bed by 19:00 after drinking heavily.\n\nWhen Lehmusviita was interrogated, he said that Kyllikki was no longer alive, and her body would never be found. Subsequently, he withdrew his statement, claiming that he had been misunderstood. The suspect and his brother-in-law alleged accomplice were questioned in the autumn of 1953. Shortly after this incident, the brother-in-law moved to Central Ostrobothnia, and then to Sweden. Lehmusviita was questioned twice. He was in a mental hospital for treatment, and when the provincial criminal police came there to question him, the interrogation was made to stop because Lehmusviita's behavior became so strange and confused that his doctor ordered that he could not be questioned in his state.\n\nBoth Lehmusviita and his alleged accomplice knew the terrain very well, as they had a common working field located 50 meters from where Kyllikki was found. There was a shovel in the field that was used to dig the grave.\n\n"}
{"id": "263994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263994", "title": "Lena Horne", "text": "Lena Horne\n\nLena Mary Calhoun Horne (June 30, 1917 – May 9, 2010) was an American singer, dancer, actress, and civil rights activist. Horne's career spanned over 70 years appearing in film, television, and theater. Horne joined the chorus of the Cotton Club at the age of 16 and became a nightclub performer before moving to Hollywood, where she had small parts in numerous movies, and more substantial parts in the 1943 films \"Cabin in the Sky\" and \"Stormy Weather\". Because of the Red Scare and her political activism, Horne found herself blacklisted and unable to get work in Hollywood.\n\nReturning to her roots as a nightclub performer, Horne took part in the March on Washington in August 1963 and continued to work as a performer, both in nightclubs and on television while releasing well-received record albums. She announced her retirement in March 1980, but the next year starred in a one-woman show, \"\", which ran for more than three hundred performances on Broadway. She then toured the country in the show, earning numerous awards and accolades. Horne continued recording and performing sporadically into the 1990s, disappearing from the public eye in 2000. Horne died of congestive heart failure on May 9, 2010, at the age of 92.\n\nLena Horne was born in Bedford–Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. She was reportedly descended from the John C. Calhoun family, and both sides of her family were a mixture of African-American, Native American, and European American descent and belonged to the upper stratum of middle-class, well-educated people. Her father, Edwin Fletcher \"Teddy\" Horne Jr. (1893–1970), a numbers kingpin in the gambling trade, left the family when she was three and moved to an upper-middle-class black community in the Hill District community of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Her mother, Edna Louise Scottron (1894–1976), was a granddaughter of inventor Samuel R. Scottron; she was an actress with a black theatre troupe and traveled extensively. Edna's maternal grandmother, Amelie Louise Ashton, was a Senegalese slave. Horne was raised mainly by her grandparents, Cora Calhoun and Edwin Horne.\n\nWhen Horne was five, she was sent to live in Georgia. For several years, she traveled with her mother. From 1927 to 1929, she lived with her uncle, Frank S. Horne, dean of students at Fort Valley Junior Industrial Institute (now part of Fort Valley State University) in Fort Valley, Georgia, who later served as an adviser to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. From Fort Valley, southwest of Macon, Horne briefly moved to Atlanta with her mother; they returned to New York when Horne was 12 years old. She then attended Girls High School, an all-girls public high school in Brooklyn that has since become Boys and Girls High School; she dropped out without earning a diploma. Aged 18, she moved to her father's home in Pittsburgh, staying in the city's Little Harlem for almost five years and learning from native Pittsburghers Billy Strayhorn and Billy Eckstine, among others.\n\nIn the fall of 1933, Horne joined the chorus line of the Cotton Club in New York City. In the spring of 1934, she had a featured role in the Cotton Club Parade starring Adelaide Hall, who took Lena under her wing. A few years later, Horne joined Noble Sissle's Orchestra, with which she toured and with whom she made her first records, issued by Decca. After she separated from her first husband, Horne toured with bandleader Charlie Barnet in 1940–41, but disliked the travel and left the band to work at the Cafe Society in New York. She replaced Dinah Shore as the featured vocalist on NBC's popular jazz series \"The Chamber Music Society of Lower Basin Street\". The show's resident maestros, Henry Levine and Paul Laval, recorded with Horne in June 1941 for RCA Victor. Horne left the show after only six months when she was hired by former Cafe Trocadero (Los Angeles) manager Felix Young to perform in a Cotton Club-style revue on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood, and was replaced by actress Betty Keene of the Keene sisters. \nHorne already had two low-budget movies to her credit: a 1938 musical feature called \"The Duke is Tops\" (later reissued with Horne's name above the title as \"The Bronze Venus\"); and a 1941 two-reel short subject, \"Boogie Woogie Dream\", featuring pianists Pete Johnson and Albert Ammons. Horne's songs from \"Boogie Woogie Dream\" were later released individually as soundies. Horne made her Hollywood nightclub debut at Felix Young's Little Troc on the Sunset Strip in January 1942. A few weeks later, she was signed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. In November 1944, she was featured in an episode of the popular radio series \"Suspense\", as a fictional nightclub singer, with a large speaking role along with her singing. In 1945 and 1946, she sang with Billy Eckstine's Orchestra.\n\nShe made her debut at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in \"Panama Hattie\" (1942) and performed the title song of \"Stormy Weather\" based loosely on the life of Adelaide Hall, (1943), which she made at 20th Century Fox, on loan from MGM. She appeared in a number of MGM musicals, most notably \"Cabin in the Sky\" (1943), but was never featured in a leading role because of her race and the fact that her films had to be re-edited for showing in cities where theaters would not show films with black performers. As a result, most of Horne's film appearances were stand-alone sequences that had no bearing on the rest of the film, so editing caused no disruption to the storyline. A notable exception was the all-black musical \"Cabin in the Sky\", although one number from that film was cut before release because it was considered too suggestive by the censors: Horne singing \"Ain't It the Truth\" while taking a bubble bath. This scene and song are featured in the film \"That's Entertainment! III\" (1994) which also featured commentary from Horne on why the scene was deleted prior to the film's release. Lena Horne was the first African-American elected to serve on the Screen Actors Guild board of directors.\n\nIn \"Ziegfeld Follies\" (1946), she performed \"Love\" by Hugh Martin and Ralph Blane. Horne lobbied for the role of Julie LaVerne in MGM's 1951 version of \"Show Boat\" (having already played the role when a segment of \"Show Boat\" was performed in \"Till the Clouds Roll By\", 1946) but lost the part to Ava Gardner, a personal friend in real life. Horne claimed this was due to the Production Code's ban on interracial relationships in films, but MGM sources state she was never considered for the role in the first place. In the documentary \"That's Entertainment! III,\" Horne stated that MGM executives required Gardner to practice her singing using Horne's recordings, which offended both actresses. Ultimately, Gardner's voice was overdubbed by actress Annette Warren (Smith) for the theatrical release.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, Horne was disenchanted with Hollywood and increasingly focused on her nightclub career. She made only two major appearances for MGM during the 1950s: \"Duchess of Idaho\" (which was also Eleanor Powell's final film); and the 1956 musical \"Meet Me in Las Vegas\". She was blacklisted during the 1950s for her affiliations in the 1940s with communist-backed groups. She would subsequently disavow communism. She returned to the screen three more times, playing chanteuse Claire Quintana in the 1969 film \"Death of a Gunfighter\", Glinda in \"The Wiz\" (1978), which was directed by her then son-in-law Sidney Lumet, and co-hosting the MGM retrospective \"That's Entertainment! III\" (1994), in which she was candid about her unkind treatment by the studio.\n\nAfter leaving Hollywood, Horne established herself as one of the premier nightclub performers of the post-war era. She headlined at clubs and hotels throughout the U.S., Canada, and Europe, including the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas, the Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles, and the Waldorf-Astoria in New York. In 1957, a live album entitled, \"Lena Horne at the Waldorf-Astoria,\" became the biggest-selling record by a female artist in the history of the RCA Victor label at that time. In 1958, Horne became the first African-American woman to be nominated for a Tony Award for \"Best Actress in a Musical\" (for her part in the \"Calypso\" musical \"Jamaica\") which, at Lena's request featured her longtime friend Adelaide Hall.\n\nFrom the late 1950s through to the 1960s, Horne was a staple of TV variety shows, appearing multiple times on Perry Como's \"Kraft Music Hall\", \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", \"The Dean Martin Show\", and \"The Bell Telephone Hour\". Other programs she appeared on included \"The Judy Garland Show\", \"The Hollywood Palace\", and \"The Andy Williams Show\". Besides two television specials for the BBC (later syndicated in the U.S.), Horne starred in her own U.S. television special in 1969, \"Monsanto Night Presents Lena Horne\". During this decade, the artist Pete Hawley painted her portrait for RCA Victor, capturing the mood of her performance style.\n\nIn 1970, she co-starred with Harry Belafonte in the hour-long \"Harry & Lena\" special for ABC; in 1973, she co-starred with Tony Bennett in \"Tony and Lena\". Horne and Bennett subsequently toured the U.S. and U.K. in a show together. In the 1976 program \"America Salutes Richard Rodgers\", she sang a lengthy medley of Rodgers songs with Peggy Lee and Vic Damone. Horne also made several appearances on \"The Flip Wilson Show\". Additionally, Horne played herself on television programs such as \"The Muppet Show\", \"Sesame Street\", and \"Sanford and Son\" in the 1970s, as well as a 1985 performance on \"The Cosby Show\" and a 1993 appearance on \"A Different World\". In the summer of 1980, Horne, 63 years old and intent on retiring from show business, embarked on a two-month series of benefit concerts sponsored by the sorority Delta Sigma Theta. These concerts were represented as Horne's farewell tour, yet her retirement lasted less than a year.\n\nOn April 13, 1980, Horne, Luciano Pavarotti, and host Gene Kelly were all scheduled to appear at a Gala performance at the Metropolitan Opera House to salute the NY City Center's Joffrey Ballet Company. However, Pavarotti's plane was diverted over the Atlantic and he was unable to appear. James Nederlander was an invited Honored Guest and noted that only three people at the sold-out Metropolitan Opera House asked for their money back. He asked to be introduced to Lena following her performance. In May 1981, The Nederlander Organization, Michael Frazier, and Fred Walker went on to book Horne for a four-week engagement at the newly named Nederlander Theatre on West 41st Street in New York City. The show was an instant success and was extended to a full year run, garnering Horne a special Tony award, and two Grammy Awards for the cast recording of her show \"\". The 333-performance Broadway run closed on Horne's 65th birthday, June 30, 1982. Later that same week, she performed the entire show again to record it for television broadcast and home video release. Horne began a tour a few days later at Tanglewood (Massachusetts) during the weekend of July 4, 1982. \"The Lady and Her Music\" toured 41 cities in the U.S. and Canada until June 17, 1984. It played in London for a month in August and ended its run in Stockholm, Sweden, September 14, 1984. In 1981, she received a Special Tony Award for the show, which also played to acclaim at the Adelphi Theatre in London in 1984. Despite the show's considerable success (Horne still holds the record for the longest-running solo performance in Broadway history), she did not capitalize on the renewed interest in her career by undertaking many new musical projects. A proposed 1983 joint recording project between Horne and Frank Sinatra (to be produced by Quincy Jones) was ultimately abandoned, and her sole studio recording of the decade was 1988's \"The Men in My Life\", featuring duets with Sammy Davis Jr. and Joe Williams. In 1989, she received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nThe 1990s found Horne considerably more active in the recording studio. Following her 1993 performance at a tribute to the musical legacy of her good friend Billy Strayhorn (Duke Ellington's longtime collaborator), she decided to record an album composed largely of Strayhorn's and Ellington's songs the following year, \"We'll Be Together Again\". To coincide with the release of the album, Horne made what would be her final concert performances at New York's Supper Club and Carnegie Hall. That same year, Horne also lent her vocals to a recording of \"Embraceable You\" on Sinatra's \"Duets II\" album. Though the album was largely derided by critics, the Sinatra-Horne pairing was generally regarded as its highlight. In 1995, a \"live\" album capturing her Supper Club performance was released (subsequently winning a Grammy Award for Best Jazz Vocal Album). In 1998, Horne released another studio album, entitled \"Being Myself\". Thereafter, Horne retired from performing and largely retreated from public view, though she did return to the recording studio in 2000 to contribute vocal tracks on Simon Rattle's \"Classic Ellington\" album.\n\nHorne was long involved with the Civil Rights Movement. In 1941, she sang at Cafe Society and worked with Paul Robeson. During World War II, when entertaining the troops for the USO, she refused to perform \"for segregated audiences or for groups in which German POWs were seated in front of African American servicemen\", according to her Kennedy Center biography. Because the U.S. Army refused to allow integrated audiences, she staged her show for a mixed audience of black U.S. soldiers and white German POWs. Seeing the black soldiers had been forced to sit in the back seats, she walked off the stage to the first row where the black troops were seated and performed with the Germans behind her. She was at an NAACP rally with Medgar Evers in Jackson, Mississippi, the weekend before Evers was assassinated. She also met President John F. Kennedy at the White House two days before he was assassinated. She was at the March on Washington and spoke and performed on behalf of the NAACP, SNCC, and the National Council of Negro Women. She also worked with Eleanor Roosevelt to pass anti-lynching laws. Tom Lehrer mentions her in his song \"National Brotherhood Week\" in the line \"Lena Horne and Sheriff Clark are dancing cheek to cheek\" referring (wryly) to her and to Sheriff Jim Clark, of Selma, Alabama, who was responsible for a violent attack on civil rights marchers in 1965. In 1983, the NAACP awarded her the Spingarn Medal.\n\nHorne was a registered Democrat and on November 20, 1963, she, along with Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairman John Bailey, Carol Lawrence, Richard Adler, Sidney Salomon, Vice-Chairwoman of the DNC Margaret B. Price, and Secretary of the DNC Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, visited John F. Kennedy at The White House, two days prior to his assassination.\n\nHorne married Louis Jordan Jones, a political operative, in January 1937 in Pittsburgh. On December 21, 1937, their daughter, Gail (later known as Gail Lumet Buckley, a writer) was born. They had a son, Edwin Jones (February 7, 1940 – September 12, 1970) who died of kidney disease. Horne and Jones separated in 1940 and divorced in 1944. Horne's second marriage was to Lennie Hayton, who was Music Director and one of the premier musical conductors and arrangers at MGM, in December 1947 in Paris. They separated in the early 1960s, but never divorced; he died in 1971. In her as-told-to autobiography \"Lena\" by Richard Schickel, Horne recounts the enormous pressures she and her husband faced as an interracial couple. She later admitted in an interview in \"Ebony\" (May 1980) that she had married Hayton to advance her career and cross the \"color-line\" in show business.\n\nHorne had affairs with Artie Shaw, Orson Welles, Vincente Minnelli, and the boxer Joe Louis.\n\nHorne also had a long and close relationship with Billy Strayhorn, whom she said she would have married if he had been heterosexual. He was also an important professional mentor to her. Screenwriter Jenny Lumet, known for her award-winning screenplay \"Rachel Getting Married\", is Horne's granddaughter, the daughter of filmmaker Sidney Lumet and Horne's daughter Gail. Her other grandchildren include Gail's other daughter, Amy Lumet, and her son's four children, Thomas, William, Samadhi, and Lena. Her great-grandchildren include Jake Cannavale.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1962, Horne resided in a St. Albans, Queens, New York, enclave of prosperous African Americans, where she counted among her neighbors, Fats Waller, Count Basie, Ella Fitzgerald, and other jazz luminaries.\n\nHorne died on May 9, 2010. Her funeral took place at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on Park Avenue in New York. Thousands gathered and attendees included Leontyne Price, Dionne Warwick, Liza Minnelli, Jessye Norman, Chita Rivera, Cicely Tyson, Diahann Carroll, Leslie Uggams, Lauren Bacall, Robert Osborne, Audra McDonald, and Vanessa Williams. After the service, her remains were cremated.\n\nIn 2003, ABC announced that Janet Jackson would star as Horne in a television biographical film. In the weeks following Jackson's \"wardrobe malfunction\" debacle during the 2004 Super Bowl, however, \"Variety\" reported that Horne had demanded Jackson be dropped from the project. \"ABC executives resisted Horne's demand\", according to the Associated Press report, \"but Jackson representatives told the trade newspaper that she left willingly after Horne and her daughter, Gail Lumet Buckley, asked that she not take part.\" Oprah Winfrey stated to Alicia Keys during a 2005 interview on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" that she might possibly consider producing the biopic herself, casting Keys as Horne.\n\nIn January 2005, Blue Note Records, her label for more than a decade, announced that \"the finishing touches have been put on a collection of rare and unreleased recordings by the legendary Horne made during her time on Blue Note.\" Remixed by her longtime producer Rodney Jones, the recordings featured Horne with a remarkably secure voice for a woman of her years, and include versions of such signature songs as \"Something to Live For\", \"Chelsea Bridge\", and \"Stormy Weather\". The album, originally titled \"Soul\" but renamed \"Seasons of a Life\", was released on January 24, 2006. In 2007, Horne was portrayed by Leslie Uggams as the older Lena and Nikki Crawford as the younger Lena in the stage musical \"Stormy Weather\" staged at the Pasadena Playhouse in California (January to March 2009). In 2011, Horne was also portrayed by actress Ryan Jillian in a one-woman show titled \"Notes from A Horne\" staged at the Susan Batson studio in New York City, from November 2011 to February 2012. The 83rd Academy Awards presented a tribute to Horne by actress Halle Berry at the ceremony held February 27, 2011.\n\nIn 2018, a Forever stamp depicting Horne began to be issued; this made Horne the 41st honoree in the Black Heritage stamp series.\n\n\n\nIssued in 1936 on 78rpm 10\" vinyl by Decca Records on Decca 778B.\nCredits Noble Sissle and his Orchestra, Lena Horne was credited as Leana Horne for this recording. Recorded on November 3, 1936, in New York.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "12353178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12353178", "title": "List of British police officers killed in the line of duty", "text": "List of British police officers killed in the line of duty\n\nThis article lists British police officers killed in the line of duty since 1900.\n\nThousands of police officers in Britain are believed to have died during the course of their duties, but this article includes only those who were killed as a direct result of a crime or while attempting to prevent, stop or solve a specific criminal act. The list omits those who died in more regular circumstances such as traffic collisions, and the many killed by air raids during the Second World War. The list also omits the more than 300 officers of the former Royal Ulster Constabulary and current Police Service of Northern Ireland who were killed during the Troubles in Northern Ireland.\n\nKey to rank abbreviations: A/x = Acting • ACC = Assistant Chief Constable • CEO = Civilian Explosives Officer • Cmdr = Commander • DC = Detective Constable • DI = Detective Inspector • DS = Detective Sergeant • Insp = Inspector • PC = Police Constable • Sgt = Sergeant • SPC = Special Police Constable • Stn Sgt = Station Sergeant • Supt = Superintendent • WPC = Woman Police Constable • WRC = War Reserve Constable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560445", "title": "List of Singapore police officers killed in the line of duty", "text": "List of Singapore police officers killed in the line of duty\n\nThis is a list of police officers from the Singapore Police Force who were killed in the line of duty, based on official records from the year 1900 to date. Line of duty deaths refers to any police officer who has died while carrying out duty which he is obligated and/or authorised to carry out. This would include officers who respond to incidents while off-duty as obligated by the Police Force Act, as well as those commuting to and from their place of duty or training.\n\nThe Singapore establishment generally avoids personalising or glorifying acts of personal sacrifice in contemporary Singaporean society, and this applies to the police force as well. There has been no public memorial or monument dedicated to police officer deaths until the opening of the Police Heritage Centre in the Police Headquarters at New Phoenix Park on 15 August 2002, where a Commemorative Gallery features a wall inscribed with the names of all fallen officers. Although open to the public, access to the centre is restricted via an appointment-only policy. There are otherwise no readily accessible published lists of all fallen officers' names whether in print or electronically.\n\nFallen officers are, however, honoured and commemorated through ceremonies or functions, such as a one-minute silence observed during the annual Police Day Parade. Police funerals featuring a flag draped casket, a three-volley salute, and a procession, amongst other elements, may be organised depending on the circumstance of death. Most funerals in recent years are much simpler affairs, partly as many of these deaths are attributed to accidents, but many of these ceremonies still receive local media coverage. Other ways of commemoration may include posthumous promotions and the awarding of state medals; there has been seven posthumous promotions and two posthumous Police Medal of Valour awardees since the 1990s.\n\nThe average age of slain police officers is 29.3 years of age, excluding 62 officers whose age were not reported. The highest number of casualties were in the 21–25 age band, making up 31.7% amongst officers whose age were reported, followed closely by those in the 26–30 age band, who make up 28.3%. While relative inexperience may be a factor, the generally young profile of police officers in Singapore and their greater probability of facing operational danger as frontline officers may also contribute to their premature deaths.\n\nThe ethnic profile of police officers has been traditionally disproportionate compared to the national ethnic profile, with a significantly higher proportion of ethnic Malays especially in the earlier decades. However, the number of casualties involving ethnic Chinese police officers are statistically higher overall due in part to the high mortality rates involving the ethnic Chinese community during the Japanese Occupation of Singapore in the 1940s, and they make up 60.7% of total deaths.\n\n\nThe following cases are listed by the date of death, although the incident attributing to death may have occurred earlier. The indicated ranks are as at time of death, and do not include posthumous promotions. Ranks/service numbers are colour-coded based on the cause of death as per the following general classifications. Uncoded entries refer to cases whereby incident details are unknown or unclear:\n\nKey\n— denotes information is not available.\n\n"}
{"id": "49506008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49506008", "title": "Michael Tshele", "text": "Michael Tshele\n\nMichael Tshele, also known as Bra Mike and Shadow, (ca.1950 – 13 January 2014), was a South African freelance photographer and community activist who was known for his contributions to the online newspaper \"Kormorant\" and \"Leseding News\". Tshele was killed along with three others while reporting on a protest over water in Mothutlung near Brits, North West province, South Africa during the post-apartheid era.\n\nTshele never married or had children. He lived with his mother and the two survived off of her pension. He was described as shy, yet friendly among his community. He attended his local Dutch Reformed Church,was an active member of the Christian Democratic Party (UCDP) and led the Matebele Burial Society.\n\nTshele was a well known member of his community. He was a freelance photographer-journalist who worked for \"Kormorant\" newspaper and \"Leseding\" news as well as a community activist. In addition to being a photo-journalist he would photograph parties, weddings, and graduations.\n\nThe following protesters were killed: Mike Tshele, Osia Rahube, Lerato Seema and Enock Seimela.\n\nTshele was the first of the four to be shot at a water supply protest on 13 January 2014 in Mothutlung, South Africa. Hyde Mophoso, a police officer, opened fire using banned SSG ammunition on the crowd of protesters, where Tshele was photographing broken water pipes. Tshele was not armed and according to a fellow, surviving protester, \"the only threat he posed was that his camera was recording evidence of what the police were doing.\" He was insulted and assaulted by police who confiscated his cellphone and camera, deleting the pictures. Trial accounts suggest that Tschele's hands were raised high when the officer shot him. He died from injuries a few days later.\n\nWarrant Officer Mophosho was convicted two years later for three of the murders and for two other attempted murders.\n\nTshele was killed after the apartheid era, which was a period of racial segregation in South Africa. During the time of the water supply protest where Tshele was killed, three local water pumps were broken down. Hundreds of angry citizens gathered around the pumps to protest the issue, where it soon turned violent when police fired on the protesters.\n\nAlthough shy, Tshele was an active member of his community and led several organizations, including the Matabele Burial Society, his local United Christian Democratic Party and his local Moroka Swallows fan club. He was a survivor of the abuse of the apartheid era.\n\nTshele's death, along the three others, was a \"'symptom' of increasing police brutality and growing attacks on the right to protest,\" according to the Right2Know campaign.\n\nOn the day he was buried at a local cemetery hundreds of residents, many who were also at the protest, were present. As he was being buried they broke out into song and dance to pay their respects.\n\n"}
{"id": "22939063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22939063", "title": "Miguel A. De La Torre", "text": "Miguel A. De La Torre\n\nMiguel A. De La Torre (born 6 October 1958) is a professor of Social Ethics and Latinx Studies at Iliff School of Theology, a scholar-activist, author, and an ordained Southern Baptist minister.\n\nBorn in Cuba months before the Castro Revolution, De La Torre and his family migrated to the United States as refugees when he was an infant. For a while the U.S. government considered him and his family as \"illegal aliens\". On 6 June 1960, De La Torre received an order from Immigration and Naturalization Service to \"self-deport.\" He attended Blessed Sacrament, a Catholic elementary school in Queens, New York, and was baptized and confirmed by the Catholic Church. Simultaneously, his parents were priest/priestess of the religion Santería. He refers to himself as a \"Southern Baptist, Roman Catholic child of Ellegúa.\" He left Queens, moving to Miami, Florida in his teens.\n\nAt nineteen years of age he began a real estate company in Miami called Championship Realty, Century 21; becoming at the time the youngest real estate broker in the State of Florida. The office grew to over 100 sales agents. During this time he obtained a Masters in Public Administration from American University in Washington, DC. Eventually he was elected president of the Miami Board of Realtors. He was also active in local politics, becoming the founding president of the West Dade Young Republicans. In 1988 he was a candidate for the Florida House of Representatives, District 115, but lost to Mario Díaz-Balart.\n\nIn his early twenties he became a \"born-again\" Christian, joining University Baptist Church in Coral Gables, Florida. In 1992, De La Torre dissolved the thirteen-year-old real estate company to attend Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in order to obtain a Master of Divinity and enter the ministry. During his seminary training he served as pastor at a rural congregation, Goshen Baptist Church in Glen Dean, Kentucky. While doing pastoral work in rural Kentucky, De La Torre had experiences that caused him to begin exploring the church's power structures and what the dominant European American culture could learn from the Latino/a margins.\n\nDe La Torre continued his theological training and obtained a doctorate from Temple University in social ethics in 1999. According to the books he published, he focuses on ethics within contemporary U.S. thought, specifically how religion affects race, class, and gender oppression. His works 1) applies a social scientific approach to Latino/a religiosity within this country; 2) studies Liberation theologies in the Caribbean and Latin America (specifically in Cuba); and 3) engages in postmodern/postcolonial social theory. De La Torre is considered to be the most published Latinx in the field of religious studies with over thirty books and hundreds of articles.\n\nIn 1999 he was hired to teach Christian Ethics at Hope College in Holland, Michigan. In 2005 he wrote a column for the local newspaper, \"The Holland Sentinel\", titled \"When the Bible is Used for Hatred.\" The article was a satirical piece commenting on Focus on the Family's James Dobson outing of SpongeBob SquarePants. Dobson responded to the article.\n\nA controversy over these articles ensued. A few months afterwards, De La Torre was forced to resign his tenure and took the position of associate professor for social ethics at Iliff School of Theology in Denver, Colorado. He became a full professor in 2010.\n\nSince obtaining his doctorate in 1999, De La Torre has authored numerous articles and books, including several books that have won national awards, specifically: \"Reading the Bible from the Margins\", (Orbis, 2002); \"Santería: The Beliefs and Rituals of a Growing Religion in America\" (Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2004); \"Doing Christian Ethics from the Margins\", (Orbis, 2004); and \"Encyclopedia on Hispanic American Religious Culture, Volume 1 & 2\", (ABC-CLIO, 2009). Within the academy he has served as a director to the Society of Christian Ethics and the American Academy of Religion. Additionally, he has been co-chair of the Ethics Section at the American Academy of Religion.\n\nHe is the founder and editor of the \"Journal of Race, Ethnicity, and Religion\", and co-founder of the Society of Race, Ethnicity, and Religion, which held its first meeting in Chicago in 2013.\n\nDe La Torre has been an expert commentator concerning ethical issues (mainly Hispanic religiosity, LGBT civil rights, and immigration rights) on several local, national, and international media outlets. He also writes monthly articles for \"Ethics Daily\" and Associated Baptist Press which create controversies within Christian circles.\n\nDuring the January, 2011 gathering of the Society of Christian Ethics, De La Torre was elected Vice-President of the organization and President-elect for 2012.\n\nIn 2016, De La Torre released a documentary for which he wrote the screenplay and coproduced based on his immigration book. The film, \"Trails of Hope and Terror\", has been shown at academic settings and houses of worship.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170807", "title": "Mountain Meadows Massacre", "text": "Mountain Meadows Massacre\n\nThe Mountain Meadows Massacre was a series of attacks on the Baker–Fancher emigrant wagon train, at Mountain Meadows in Utah. The attacks began on September 7, 1857, and culminated on September 11, 1857, resulting in the mass slaughter of the emigrant party by members of the Utah Territorial Militia from the Iron County district. The militia, officially called the Nauvoo Legion, was composed of southern Utah's Mormon settlers (members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or the LDS Church). \n\nThe wagon train, mostly families from Arkansas, was bound for California on a route that passed through the Utah Territory, during a conflict later known as the Utah War. While the emigrants were camped at the meadow, nearby militia leaders organized an attack on the wagon train.\n\nIntending to give the appearance of Native American aggression, the militia's plan was to arm some Southern Paiutes and persuade them to join with a larger party of their own militiamen—disguised as Native Americans—in an attack. The extent to which the Paiutes participated in the massacre is disputed, with some early reports — since discredited — placing much of the blame for the massacre to the Native Americans. During the militia's first assault on the wagon train the emigrants fought back, and a five-day siege ensued. Eventually fear spread among the militia's leaders that some emigrants had caught sight of white men and had likely discovered the identity of their attackers. As a result militia commander William H. Dame ordered his forces to kill the emigrants—about 120 men, women, and children in total. Seventeen children, all younger than seven, were spared.\n\nFollowing the massacre, the perpetrators hastily buried the victims. Local families took in the surviving children, and many of the victims' possessions were sold by auction. Investigations, after interruption by the American Civil War, resulted in nine indictments during 1874. Of the men indicted, only John D. Lee was tried in a court of law. After two trials in the Utah Territory, Lee was convicted by a jury, sentenced to death, and executed by a firing squad on March 23, 1877.\n\nToday, historians attribute the massacre to a combination of factors, including war hysteria about possible invasion of Mormon territory and hyperbolic Mormon teachings against outsiders, which were part of the excesses of the Mormon Reformation period. \n\nIn early 1857, the several groups of emigrants from the northwestern Arkansas region started their trek to California, when they later joined all together to form a group known as the Baker–Fancher party. The groups were mostly from Marion, Crawford, Carroll, and Johnson counties in Arkansas, and had assembled into a wagon train at Beller's Stand, south of Harrison, to emigrate to southern California. This group was initially referred to as both the Baker train and the Perkins train, but after being joined by other Arkansas trains and making its way west, was soon called the Baker–Fancher train (or party). It was named for \"Colonel\" Alexander Fancher who, having already made the journey to California twice before, had become its main leader. By contemporary standards the Baker–Fancher party was prosperous, carefully organized, and well-equipped for the journey. They were joined along the way by families and individuals from other states, including Missouri. This group was relatively wealthy and planned to restock its supplies in Salt Lake City, as did most wagon trains at the time. The party reached Salt Lake City with about 120 members.\n\nAt the time of the Fanchers' arrival, the Utah Territory was organized as a theocratic democracy under the lead of Brigham Young, who had established colonies along the California Trail and Old Spanish Trail. President James Buchanan had recently issued an order to send troops to Utah. Rumors spread in the territory about the motives for the federal troop movement. Young issued various orders, urging the local population to prepare for the arrival of the troops. Eventually Young issued a declaration of martial law.\n\nThe Baker–Fancher party were refused stocks in Salt Lake City and chose to leave there and take the Old Spanish Trail, which passed through southern Utah. In August 1857, the Mormon apostle George A. Smith, of Parowan, traveled throughout southern Utah, instructing the settlers to stockpile grain. While on his return trip to Salt Lake City, Smith camped near the Baker–Fancher party on August 25 at Corn Creek, (near present-day Kanosh) north of Parowan. They had traveled the south from Salt Lake City, and Jacob Hamblin suggested that the wagon train continue on the trail and rest their cattle at Mountain Meadows, which had good pasture and was adjacent to his homestead.\nWhile many witnesses said that the Fanchers were in general a peaceful party whose members behaved well along the trail, rumors spread about aggressive and threatening behavior and other misdeeds. Brevet Major James Henry Carleton led the first federal investigation of the murders, published in 1859. He recorded Hamblin's account that the train was alleged to have poisoned a spring near Corn Creek; this resulted in the deaths of 18 head of cattle and two or three people who ate the contaminated meat. Carleton interviewed the father of a child who allegedly died from this poisoned spring, and accepted the sincerity of the grieving father. But, he also included a statement from an investigator who did not believe the Fancher party was capable of poisoning the spring, given its size. Carleton invited readers to consider a potential explanation for the rumors of misdeeds, noting the general atmosphere of distrust among Mormons for strangers at the time, and that some locals appeared jealous of the Fancher party's wealth.\n\nThe Baker–Fancher party left Corn Creek and continued the to Mountain Meadows, passing Parowan, and Cedar City; southern Utah communities led respectively by Stake Presidents William H. Dame and Isaac C. Haight. Haight and Dame were, in addition, the senior regional military leaders of the Mormon militia. As the Baker–Fancher party approached, several meetings were held in Cedar City and nearby Parowan by the local Latter Day Saint (LDS) leaders pondering how to implement Young's declaration of martial law. In the afternoon of Sunday, September 6, Haight held his weekly Stake High Council meeting after church services, and brought up the issue of what to do with the emigrants. The plan for a Native American massacre was discussed, but not all the Council members agreed it was the right approach. The Council resolved to take no action until Haight sent a rider, James Haslam, out the next day to carry an express to Salt Lake City (a six-day round trip on horseback) for Brigham Young's advice, as Utah did not yet have a telegraph system. Following the Council, Isaac C. Haight decided to send a messenger south to John D. Lee. What Haight told Lee remains a mystery, but considering the timing it may have had something to do with Council's decision to wait for advice from Brigham Young.\n\nThe somewhat dispirited Baker–Fancher party found water and fresh grazing for its livestock after reaching grassy, mountain-ringed Mountain Meadows, a widely known stopover on the old Spanish Trail, in early September. They anticipated several days of rest and recuperation there before the next would take them out of Utah. But, on September 7, the party was attacked by Mormon militiamen dressed as Native Americans and some Native American Paiutes. The Baker–Fancher party defended itself by encircling and lowering their wagons, wheels chained together, along with digging shallow trenches and throwing dirt both below and into the wagons, which made a strong barrier. Seven emigrants were killed during the opening attack and were buried somewhere within the wagon encirclement. Sixteen more were wounded. The attack continued for five days, during which the besieged families had little or no access to fresh water or game food and their ammunition was depleted. Meanwhile, organization among the local Mormon leadership reportedly broke down. Eventually fear spread among the militia's leaders that some emigrants had caught sight of white men, and had probably discovered who their attackers really were. This resulted in an order to kill all the emigrants, with the exception of small children.\n\nOn Friday, September 11, 1857, two militiamen approached the Baker–Fancher party wagons with a white flag and were soon followed by Indian Agent and militia officer John D. Lee. Lee told the battle-weary emigrants that he had negotiated a truce with the Paiutes, whereby they could be escorted safely the back to Cedar City under Mormon protection in exchange for turning all of their livestock and supplies over to the Native Americans. Accepting this, the emigrants were led out of their fortification. The adult men were separated from the women and children. The men were paired with a militia escort. When a signal was given, the militiamen turned and shot the male members of the Baker–Fancher party standing by their side. The women and children were then ambushed and killed by more militia that were hiding in nearby bushes and ravines. Members of the militia were sworn to secrecy. A plan was set to blame the massacre on the Native Americans. The militia did not kill at least seventeen children who were under the age of 7 and deemed too young to relate the story. These children were taken in by local Mormon families; seventeen of the children were later reclaimed through the efforts of the U.S. Army and returned to relatives in Arkansas.\n\nSome of the property of the dead was reportedly taken by the Native Americans involved, while large amounts of their valuables and cattle were taken by the Mormons in southern Utah, including John D. Lee. Some of the cattle were taken to Salt Lake City and sold or traded. The remaining personal property of the Baker–Fancher party was taken to the tithing house at Cedar City and auctioned off to local Mormons.\n\nAn early investigation was conducted by Brigham Young, who interviewed John D. Lee on September 29, 1857. In 1858, Young sent a report to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs stating that the massacre was the work of Native Americans. The Utah War delayed any investigation by the U.S. federal government until 1859, when Jacob Forney, and U.S. Army Brevet Major James Henry Carleton conducted investigations. In Carleton's investigation, at Mountain Meadows he found women's hair tangled in sage brush and the bones of children still in their mothers' arms. Carleton later said it was \"a sight which can never be forgotten.\" After gathering up the skulls and bones of those who had died, Carleton's troops buried them and erected a cairn and cross.\n\nCarleton interviewed a few local Mormon settlers and Paiute Native American chiefs, and concluded that there was Mormon involvement in the massacre. He issued a report in May 1859, addressed to the U.S. Assistant Adjutant-General, setting forth his findings. Jacob Forney, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for Utah, also conducted an investigation that included visiting the region in the summer of 1859 and retrieved many of the surviving children of massacre victims who had been housed with Mormon families, and gathered them in preparation of transporting them to their relatives in Arkansas. Forney concluded that the Paiutes did not act alone and the massacre would not have occurred without the white settlers, while Carleton's report to the U.S. Congress called the mass killings a \"heinous crime\", blaming both local and senior church leaders for the massacre.\n\nA federal judge brought into the territory after the Utah War, Judge John Cradlebaugh, in March 1859 convened a grand jury in Provo concerning the massacre, but the jury declined any indictments. Nevertheless, Cradlebaugh conducted a tour of the Mountain Meadows area with a military escort. Cradlebaugh attempted to arrest John D. Lee, Isaac Haight, and John Higbee, but these men fled before they could be found. Cradlebaugh publicly charged Brigham Young as an instigator to the massacre and therefore an \"accessory before the fact.\" Possibly as a protective measure against the mistrusted federal court system, Mormon territorial probate court judge Elias Smith arrested Young under a territorial warrant, perhaps hoping to divert any trial of Young into a friendly Mormon territorial court. When no federal charges ensued, Young was apparently released.\n\nFurther investigations, cut short by the American Civil War in 1861, again proceeded in 1871 when prosecutors obtained the affidavit of militia member Philip Klingensmith. Klingensmith had been a bishop and blacksmith from Cedar City; by the 1870s, however, he had left the church and moved to Nevada.\n\nDuring the 1870s Lee, Dame, Philip Klingensmith and two others (Ellott Willden and George Adair, Jr.) were indicted and arrested while warrants were obtained to pursue the arrests of four others (Haight, Higbee, William C. Stewart and Samuel Jukes) who had gone into hiding. Klingensmith escaped prosecution by agreeing to testify. Brigham Young removed some participants including Haight and Lee from the LDS Church in 1870. The U.S. posted bounties of $500 () each for the capture of Haight, Higbee and Stewart, while prosecutors chose not to pursue their cases against Dame, Willden and Adair.\n\nLee's first trial began on July 23, 1875, in Beaver, before a jury of eight Mormons and four non-Mormons. This trial led to a hung jury on August 5, 1875. Lee's second trial began September 13, 1876, before an all-Mormon jury. The prosecution called Daniel Wells, Laban Morrill, Joel White, Samuel Knight, Samuel McMurdy, Nephi Johnson, and Jacob Hamblin. Lee also stipulated, against advice of counsel, that the prosecution be allowed to re-use the depositions of Young and Smith from the previous trial. Lee called no witnesses in his defense. This time, Lee was convicted.\n\nAt Lee's sentencing, as required by Utah Territory statute, he was given the option of being hanged, shot, or beheaded, and he chose to be shot. In 1877, before being executed by firing squad at Mountain Meadows on March 23, 1877, Lee professed that he was a scapegoat for others involved. Brigham Young stated that Lee's fate was just, but not a sufficient blood atonement, given the enormity of the crime.\n\nThe first published report on the incident was made in 1859 by Carleton, who had been tasked by the U.S. Army to investigate the incident and bury the still exposed corpses at Mountain Meadows. Although the massacre was covered to some extent in the media during the 1850s, the first period of intense nation-wide publicity about the massacre began around 1872, after investigators obtained Klingensmith's confession. In 1867 C.V. Waite published \"An Authentic History Of Brigham Young\" which described the events. In 1872, Mark Twain commented on the massacre through the lens of contemporary American public opinion in an appendix to his semi-autobiographical travel book \"Roughing It\". In 1873, the massacre was a prominent feature of a history by T. B. H. Stenhouse, \"The Rocky Mountain Saints\". National newspapers covered the Lee trials closely from 1874 to 1876, and his execution in 1877 was widely covered.\n\nThe massacre has been treated extensively by several historical works, beginning with Lee's own \"Confession\" in 1877, expressing his opinion that George A. Smith was sent to southern Utah by Brigham Young to direct the massacre and stating that the local church and city leaders had prayed together in a circle and told him it was their duty to kill the emigrants. In 1910, the massacre was the subject of a short book by Josiah F. Gibbs, who also attributed responsibility for the massacre to Young and Smith. In 1915, the massacre was described in Jack London's novel \"The Star Rover\" from the point of view of a young boy, Jesse, son of Captain Fancher. The first detailed and comprehensive work using modern historical methods was \"The Mountain Meadows Massacre\" in 1950 by Juanita Brooks, a Mormon scholar who lived near the area in southern Utah. Brooks found no evidence of direct involvement by Brigham Young, but charged him with obstructing the investigation and provoking the attack through his rhetoric. The book uncovered inaccuracies in the LDS church's official history.\n\nInitially, the LDS Church denied any involvement by Mormons, and was relatively silent on the issue. In 1872, it excommunicated some of the participants for their role in the massacre, and from that point the LDS Church has condemned the massacre and acknowledged involvement by local Mormon leaders.\n\nChurch officials discouraged historian Juanita Brooks from investigating the matter. She was blacklisted from participation in official LDS church periodicals after publication of her book.\n\nIn September 2007, the LDS Church published an article in its publications marking 150 years since the tragedy occurred.\n\nHistorians have ascribed the massacre to a number of factors, including strident Mormon teachings in the years prior to the massacre, war hysteria, and alleged involvement of Brigham Young. According to author Sally Denton, the involvement of Young and other LDS Church leaders is further complicated by the LDS Church's reluctance to assume responsibility for the massacre, which, Denton argues, is because it would risk \"calling into question Brigham Young's divinity and the Mormon belief that they are God's chosen people.\"\n\nFor the decade prior to the Baker–Fancher party's arrival there, Utah Territory existed as a theodemocracy led by Brigham Young. During the mid-1850s, Young instituted a Mormon Reformation, intending to \"lay the axe at the root of the tree of sin and iniquity\". Mormon teachings during this era were dramatic and strident.\n\nIn addition, during the prior decades, the religion had undergone a period of intense persecution in the American Midwest, and faithful Mormons moved west to escape persecution in midwestern towns. In particular, they were officially expelled from the state of Missouri during the 1838 Mormon War, during which prominent Mormon apostle David W. Patten was killed in battle. After Mormons moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, the religion's founder Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum Smith were killed in 1844. Just months before the Mountain Meadows Massacre, Mormons received word that yet another apostle had been killed: in April 1857, apostle Parley P. Pratt was shot in Arkansas by Hector McLean, the estranged husband of one of Pratt's plural wives, Eleanor McLean Pratt. Mormon leaders immediately proclaimed Pratt as another martyr, and many Mormons held the people of Arkansas responsible.\n\nIn 1857, Mormon leaders taught that the Second Coming of Jesus was imminent, and that God would soon exact punishment against the United States for persecuting Mormons and martyring Joseph Smith, Hyrum Smith, Patten and Pratt. In their Endowment ceremony, faithful early Latter-day Saints took an oath to pray that God would take vengeance against the murderers. As a result of this oath, several Mormon apostles and other leaders considered it their religious duty to kill the prophets' murderers if they ever came across them.\n\nThe sermons, blessings, and private counsel by Mormon leaders just before the Mountain Meadows Massacre can be understood as encouraging private individuals to execute God's judgment against the wicked. In Cedar City, the teachings of church leaders were particularly strident.\n\nThus, historians argue that southern Utah Mormons would have been particularly affected by an unsubstantiated rumor that the Baker–Fancher wagon train had been joined by a group of eleven miners and plainsmen who called themselves \"Missouri Wildcats\", some of whom reportedly taunted, vandalized and \"caused trouble\" for Mormons along the route. Various rumors asserted that the Wildcats had bragged of killing Mormons at Haun's Mill Massacre; John D. Lee claimed they bragged that Buchanan's army would wipe out the Mormon population. They were also affected by the report to Brigham Young that the Baker–Fancher party was from Arkansas where Pratt was murdered; It was also rumored – as presented in the \"Argus\" letters later published in the \"Corinne Daily Reporter\" – that Eleanor McLean Pratt, one of Pratt's plural wives, recognized one or more of the Mountain Meadows emigrants as being present at her husband's murder. Other sources, however, state that Eleanor Pratt herself was not present at or during the murder (and so could not have identified the murderers).\n\nThe Mountain Meadows Massacre was caused in part by events relating to the Utah War, an 1857 deployment toward the Utah Territory of the United States Army, whose arrival was peaceful. In the summer of 1857, however, the Mormons expected an all-out invasion of apocalyptic significance. From July to September 1857, Mormon leaders and their followers prepared for a siege. Mormons were required to stockpile grain, and were enjoined against selling grain to emigrants for use as cattle feed. As far-off Mormon colonies retreated, Parowan and Cedar City became isolated and vulnerable outposts. It has been reported that Brigham Young sought to enlist the help of Native American tribes in fighting the \"Americans\", encouraging them to steal cattle from emigrant trains, and to join Mormons in fighting the approaching army.\n\nScholars have asserted that George A. Smith's tour of southern Utah influenced the decision to attack and destroy the Fancher–Baker emigrant train near Mountain Meadows, Utah. He met with many of the eventual participants in the massacre, including W. H. Dame, Isaac Haight, John D. Lee and Chief Jackson, leader of a band of Paiutes. He noted that the militia was organized and ready to fight, and that some of them were eager to \"fight and take vengeance for the cruelties that had been inflicted upon us in the States.\"\nAmong Smith's party were a number of Paiute Native American chiefs from the Mountain Meadows area. When Smith returned to Salt Lake, Brigham Young met with these leaders on September 1, 1857, and encouraged them to fight against the Americans in the anticipated clash with the U.S. Army. They were also offered all of the livestock then on the road to California, which included that belonging to the Baker–Fancher party. The Native American chiefs were reluctant, and at least one objected they had previously been told not to steal, and declined the offer.\n\nThere is a consensus among historians that Brigham Young played a role in provoking the massacre, at least unwittingly, and in concealing its evidence after the fact; however, they debate whether Young knew about the planned massacre ahead of time and whether he initially condoned it before later taking a strong public stand against it. Young's use of inflammatory and violent language in response to the Federal expedition added to the tense atmosphere at the time of the attack. Following the massacre, Young stated in public forums that God had taken vengeance on the Baker–Fancher party. It is unclear whether Young held this view because he believed that this specific group posed an actual threat to colonists or because he believed that the group was directly responsible for past crimes against Mormons. However, in Young's only known correspondence prior to the massacre, he told the Church leaders in Cedar City:\n\nAccording to historian MacKinnon, \"After the [Utah] war, U.S. President James Buchanan implied that face-to-face communications with Brigham Young might have averted the conflict, and Young argued that a north-south telegraph line in Utah could have prevented the Mountain Meadows Massacre.\" MacKinnon suggests that hostilities could have been avoided if Young had traveled east to Washington D.C. to resolve governmental problems instead of taking a five-week trip north on the eve of the Utah War for church related reasons.\n\nA modern forensic assessment of a key affidavit, purportedly given by a elderly man named William Edwards in 1924, stating that when he was 15 years old he was ordered by Mormon leadership to assist the Indians in the attack, has complicated the debate on complicity of senior Mormon leadership in the Mountain Meadows Massacre. Analysis indicates that Edwards's signature may have been traced and that the typeset belonged to a typewriter manufactured in the 1950s. The Utah State Historical Society, who maintains the document in its archives, acknowledges a possible connection to Mark Hofmann, a convicted forger and extortionist, via go-between Lyn Jacobs who provided the society with the document. Similarly, a letter supposedly written by John D. Lee, stating he was given direct orders from Brigham Young, is also suspected to be a forgery after being compared with other samples of Lee's handwriting.\n\nThe first monument for the victims was built two years after the massacre, by Major Carleton and the U.S. Army. This monument was a simple cairn built over the gravesite of 34 victims, and was topped by a large cedar cross. The monument was found destroyed and the structure was replaced by the U.S. Army in 1864. By some reports, the monument was destroyed in 1861, when Young brought an entourage to Mountain Meadows. Wilford Woodruff, who later became President of the Church, claimed that upon reading the inscription on the cross, which read, \"Vengeance is mine, thus saith the Lord. I shall repay\", Young responded, \"it should be vengeance is mine and I have taken a little.\" In 1932 citizens of the surrounding area constructed a memorial wall around the remnants of the monument.\nStarting in 1988, the Mountain Meadows Association, composed of descendants of both the Baker–Fancher party victims and the Mormon participants, designed a new monument in the meadows; this monument was completed in 1990 and is maintained by the Utah State Division of Parks and Recreation. In 1999 The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints replaced the U.S. Army's cairn and the 1932 memorial wall with a second monument, which it now maintains.\n\nIn 1955, to memorialize the victims of the massacre, a monument was installed in the town square of Harrison, Arkansas. On one side of this monument is a map and short summary of the massacre, while the opposite side contains a list of the victims. In 2005 a replica of the U.S. Army's original 1859 cairn was built in Carrollton, Arkansas; it is maintained by the Mountain Meadows Monument Foundation.\n\nIn 2007, the 150th anniversary of the massacre was remembered by a ceremony held in the meadows. Approximately 400 people, including many descendants of those slain at Mountain Meadows and Elder Henry B. Eyring of the LDS Church's Quorum of the Twelve Apostles attended this ceremony.\n\nIn 2011, the site was designated as a National Historic Landmark after joint efforts by descendants of those killed and the LDS Church.\n\nIn 2014, California archaeologist Everett Bassett, after an examination of U.S. Army records and a site visit, concluded that two mass graves of the massacre victims, which had been thought to be at the site of the memorial erected by the LDS Church, were actually on private land nearby. The Mountain Meadows Association is trying to come to an agreement with the land owner for conservation of the sites via National Monument status.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20197918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20197918", "title": "Nonconformity (quality)", "text": "Nonconformity (quality)\n\nIn quality management, a nonconformity (sometimes referred to as a defect) is a deviation from a specification, a standard, or an expectation. Nonconformities can be classified in seriousness multiple ways, though a typical classification scheme may have three to four levels, including critical, serious, major, and minor. \n\nWhile some situations allow \"nonconformity\" and \"defect\" to be used synonymously, some industries distinguish between the two; a nonconformity represents a failure to meet an intended state and specification, while a defect represents a failure to meet fitness for use/normal usage requirements. This can be seen in the international software engineering standard ISO/IEC 25010 (formerly ISO/IEC 9126), which defines a nonconformity as the nonfulfillment of a requirement and a defect as the nonfulfillment of intended usage requirements.\n\nWhen ensuring quality of a product or a service, classification of a nonconformity is important, as it provides an opportunity to better reduce nonconformity. Many quality management practices will do this using a relatively simple three- or four-level classification system.For example, U.S. federal agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration have used a simple three-tier system for quality requirements of government-acquired supplies and services: minor, major, and critical nonconformance. However, some industries may develop their own, custom ranking systems. An example from the automotive industry uses a 10-point system for finer granularity, where, for example, a one represents \"none\" (no effect), a six \"moderate\" (vehicle or item operable, but comfort or convenience items inoperable), and a 10 \"hazardous without warning\" (when a potential failure mode affects safe vehicle operation without warning). Regardless of size, these classification schemes exist to help drive discovery and correction of nonconformities (and defects).\n\nThe causes of nonconformities aren't unlimited and therefore determinable. Common causes for deficiencies to arise include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18435298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18435298", "title": "One More Kiss (film)", "text": "One More Kiss (film)\n\nOne More Kiss is a Scottish romantic drama directed by award-winning film maker Vadim Jean (Leon the Pig Farmer, Beyond Bedlam, Clockwork Mice) and starring Valerie Edmond, Gerard Butler and James Cosmo in the main roles. The film’s tragic story revolves around a cancer-diagnosed woman who decides to live her remaining life to the full, which includes throwing herself into a triangle romance with an old flame.\n\nWhen Sarah Hopson (Valerie Edmond) discovers she has a brain tumour, she leaves her successful high-rise lifestyle in New York City and returns to her hometown in the Scottish Borders, where she left her widower father Frank (James Cosmo) and her childhood sweetheart Sam (Gerard Butler) to pursue a career in the United States seven years ago. Upon arriving Sarah finds out that Sam, a restaurant owner, is now happily married to Charlotte (Valerie Gogan). This, however, does not stop her from asking the couple a last favour – which is to let Sarah spend her remaining time in the company of the only man she has ever loved.\n\nDirector Vadim Jean decided on an all-Scottish cast with the following three actors starring in the main roles:\n\n\n\n\nThe original intention was for the film to be set in Jean’s home town of Bristol, but in the end they decided to use the beautiful landscapes of Northern England and Edinburgh, Scotland instead – with the former being the main setting. The opening and closing sequences, however, were shot in New York City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20609697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609697", "title": "Pork", "text": "Pork\n\nPork is the culinary name for meat from a domestic pig (\"Sus scrofa domesticus\"). It is the most commonly consumed meat worldwide, with evidence of pig husbandry dating back to 5000 BCE.\n\nPork is eaten both freshly cooked and preserved. Curing extends the shelf life of the pork products. Ham, smoked pork, gammon, bacon and sausage are examples of preserved pork. Charcuterie is the branch of cooking devoted to prepared meat products, many from pork.\n\nPork is the most popular meat in Eastern and Southeastern Asia, and is also very common in the Western world, especially in Central Europe. It is highly prized in Asian cuisines for its fat content and pleasant texture. Consumption of pork is forbidden by Jewish, Muslim, and Rastafarian dietary law, for religious reasons, with several suggested possible causes. The sale of pork is limited in Israel and illegal in certain Muslim countries.\n\nCharcuterie is the branch of cooking devoted to prepared meat products such as bacon, ham, sausage, \"terrines\", \"galantines\", \"pâtés\", and \"confit\", primarily from pig. Originally intended as a way to preserve meats before the advent of refrigeration, these preparations are prepared today for the flavours that are derived from the preservation processes. In 15th century France, local guilds regulated tradesmen in the food production industry in each city. The guilds that produced \"charcuterie\" were those of the \"charcutiers\". The members of this guild produced a traditional range of cooked or salted and dried meats, which varied, sometimes distinctively, from region to region. The only \"raw\" meat the \"charcutiers\" were allowed to sell was unrendered lard. The \"charcutier\" prepared numerous items, including \"pâtés\", \"rillettes\", sausages, bacon, trotters, and head cheese.\n\nBefore the mass production and re-engineering of pigs in the 20th century, pork in Europe and North America was traditionally an autumn dish—pigs and other livestock coming to the slaughter in the autumn after growing in the spring and fattening during the summer. Due to the seasonal nature of the meat in Western culinary history, apples (harvested in late summer and autumn) have been a staple pairing to fresh pork. The year-round availability of meat and fruits has not diminished the popularity of this combination on Western plates.\n\nPigs are the most widely eaten animal in the world, accounting for about 38% of meat production worldwide. Consumption varies widely from place to place. The meat is taboo to eat in the Middle East and most of the Muslim world because of Jewish kosher and Islamic Halal dietary restrictions. But, pork is widely consumed in East and Southeast Asia, Europe, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Americas and Oceania. As the result, large numbers of pork recipes are developed throughout the world. Jamón is the most famous Spanish inlay, which is made with the front legs of a pork. \"Feijoada\" for example, the national dish of Brazil (also served in Portugal), is traditionally prepared with pork trimmings: ears, tail and feet.\n\nAccording to the USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service, nearly 100 million metric tons of pork were consumed worldwide in 2006 (preliminary data). Increasing urbanization and disposable income has led to a rapid rise in pork consumption in China, where 2006 consumption was 20% higher than in 2002, and a further 5% increase projected in 2007. In 2015 recorded total 109.905 million metric tons of pork were consumed worldwide. By 2017, half the world's pork was consumed in China.\n\nPork is popular throughout eastern Asia and the Pacific, where whole roast pig is a popular item in Pacific Island cuisine. It is consumed in a great many ways and highly esteemed in Chinese cuisine. Currently China is the world's largest pork consumer, with pork consumption expected to total 53 million tons in 2012, which accounts for more than half of global pork consumption. In China, pork is preferred over beef for economic and aesthetic reasons; the pig is easy to feed and is not used for labour. The colours of the meat and the fat of pork are regarded as more appetizing, while the taste and smell are described as sweeter and cleaner. It is also considered easier to digest. In rural tradition, pork is shared to celebrate important occasions and to form bonding. In China, pork is so important that the nation maintains a \"strategic pork reserve\". Red braised pork (\"hong shao rou\"), a delicacy from Hunan Province, inspired Mao Zedong. Other popular Chinese pork dishes are sweet and sour pork, \"bakkwa\", and \"charsiu\". In the Philippines, due to 300 years of Spanish colonization and influence, lechon, which is an entire roasted suckling pig, is the national delicacy.\n\nPork may be cooked from fresh meat or cured over time. Cured meat products include ham and bacon. The carcass may be used in many different ways for fresh meat cuts, with the popularity of certain cuts and certain carcass proportions varying worldwide.\n\nMost of the carcass can be used to produce fresh meat and in the case of a suckling pig, the whole body of a young pig ranging in age from two to six weeks is roasted. Danish roast pork or \"flæskesteg\", prepared with crispy crackling is a national favourite as the traditional Christmas dinner.\n\nPork is particularly common as an ingredient in sausages. Many traditional European sausages are made with pork, including chorizo, fuet, Cumberland sausage and salami. Many brands of American hot dogs and most breakfast sausages are made from pork. Processing of pork into sausages and other products in France is described as charcuterie.\n\nHam and bacon are made from fresh pork by curing with salt (pickling) or smoking. Shoulders and legs are most commonly cured in this manner for Picnic shoulder and ham, whereas streaky and round bacon come from the side (round from the loin and streaky from the belly).\n\nHam and bacon are popular foods in the west, and their consumption has increased with industrialisation. Non-western cuisines also use preserved meat products. For example, salted preserved pork or red roasted pork is used in Chinese and Asian cuisine.\n\nBacon is defined as any of certain cuts of meat taken from the sides, belly or back that have been cured or smoked. In continental Europe, it is used primarily in cubes (lardons) as a cooking ingredient valued both as a source of fat and for its flavour. In Italy, besides being used in cooking, bacon (\"pancetta\") is also served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an \"antipasto\". Bacon is also used for barding roasts, especially game birds. Bacon is often smoked with various wood fuels for up to ten hours. Bacon is eaten fried, baked, or grilled.\n\nA side of unsliced bacon is a \"flitch\" or \"slab bacon\", while an individual slice of bacon is a \"rasher\" (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand and the United Kingdom) or simply a \"slice\" or \"strip\" (North America). Slices of bacon are also known as \"collops\". Traditionally, the skin is left on the cut and is known as \"bacon rind\". Rindless bacon, however, is quite common. In both Ireland and the United Kingdom, bacon comes in a wide variety of cuts and flavours, and is predominantly known as \"streaky bacon\", or \"streaky rashers\". Bacon made from the meat on the back of the pig is referred to as \"back bacon\" and is part of traditional full breakfast commonly eaten in Britain and Ireland. In the United States, back bacon may also be referred to as \"Canadian-style Bacon\" or \"Canadian Bacon\".\n\nThe USDA defines bacon as \"the cured belly of a swine carcass\", while other cuts and characteristics must be separately qualified (e.g. \"smoked pork loin bacon\"). \"USDA Certified\" bacon means that it has been treated for \"Trichinella\".\n\nThe canned meat Spam is made of chopped pork shoulder meat and ham.\n\nDue to the fact that pigs can eat unused food originally meant for humans, and due to high availability of such food in many industrialized countries, pork and other products from pigs have become securely sourced and low-priced commodities. This makes pig products very popular as raw material in many industrially produced products. \n\nIts myoglobin content is lower than that of beef, but much higher than that of chicken. The USDA treats pork as a red meat. Pork is very high in thiamin (vitamin B). Pork with its fat trimmed is leaner than the meat of most domesticated animals, but is high in cholesterol and saturated fat.\n\nIn 1987 the U.S. National Pork Board began an advertising campaign to position pork as \"the other white meat\"—due to a public perception of chicken and turkey (white meat) as healthier than red meat. The campaign was highly successful and resulted in 87% of consumers identifying pork with the slogan. The board retired the slogan on 4 March 2011.\n\nEating of pork is prohibited by orthodox Jewish dietary laws and Islamic dietary laws, and is also avoided by mainstream Seventh-day Adventists, Rastafarians, and members of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. There is also a theory that pork was taboo in Scotland until roughly 1800.\n\nPork is a well-known example of a non-kosher food. This prohibition is based on Leviticus chapter 11 and Deuteronomy chapter 14:\n\nThese are the creatures that you may eat from among all the animals that are upon the land. Everything that possesses a split hoof, which is fully cloven, and that brings up its cud—this you may eat. But this is what you shall not eat from what brings up its cud or possesses split hooves—the camel, because it brings up its cud but does not possess split hooves...and the pig, because it has split hooves that are completely cloven, but it does not bring up its cud—it is impure to you and from its flesh you may not eat.\n\nAnd the pig, because it possesses split hooves and does not bring up its cud—from its flesh you may not eat.\n\nAs indicated by the Torah verses, pork is non-kosher because Jews may not consume an animal that possesses one trait but not the other of cloven hooves and regurgitating cud. Hogs, which are not ruminants, do not chew cud as cattle and sheep do. Practising Jews suffice on the biblical explanation of the swine as 'unclean'. According to one rabbinic commentary anyone who has seen the swine's filthy habits will not inquire into why it is prohibited. Maimonides shared this view in classifying the swine as an unclean creature in both its habit and diet.\n\nThe prohibition of swine eating in Ancient Israel, according to Douglas, was because the pig was raised by non-Israelites, ate carrion and did not fit into the classification of ungulates. Harris disagrees and points out that Egyptians and Sumerians also restricted pigs and that goats also ate corpses, yet were not declared unclean in Ancient Israel. Harris offers an explanation based on environmental and economic factors instead.\n\nIn Israel pig-raising has been limited by law to certain areas and institutions. Some pig-related laws are openly circumvented. Swine production has increased from an estimated annual slaughter of 50,000 swine in 1960 to 180,000 in 2010. Pig meat consumption per capita was 2.7 kg in 2009. Although pork marketing is prohibited in some religious localities, pork products are available elsewhere at non-kosher butchers and by the Mizra and Tiv Ta'am non-kosher supermarket chain, which caters to Russian immigrants. A modern Hebrew euphemism for pork is \"white meat\".\n\nPork is prohibited by the Islamic dietary laws. Throughout the Islamic world many countries severely restrict the importation or consumption of pork products. Examples are Iran, Mauritania, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Libya, Pakistan and the Maldives. However, in other Muslim-majority countries with significant non-Muslim minorities, such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei, Lebanon, Iraq, Tunisia, Turkey, Egypt, Morocco, Bahrain, Jordan, Albania, Azerbaijan, Syria and the United Arab Emirates (except the Emirate of Sharjah), pork is available in hotels, restaurants and supermarkets that cater to a significant non-Muslim population.\n\nThe Qur'anic basis for the Islamic prohibition of pork can be found in surah 2:173, 5:3, 5:60, 6:145 and 16:115.\n\nHe has forbidden you only the carrion, blood, and the flesh of swine, and that which is slaughtered as a sacrifice for others than God. But if one is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits, then there is no sin on him. Truly, Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.\n\nForbidden for you for food are carrion, blood, flesh of swine, and that which has been dedicated to other than God, and animals killed by strangling or by a violent blow or by a head-long fall or by the goring of horns, and those from which a wild animal has eaten, except what you [are able to] slaughter [before its death], and those which are sacrificed on stone altars, and [prohibited is] that you seek decision through divining arrows. That is grave disobedience. This day those who disbelieve have despaired of [defeating] your religion; so fear them not, but fear Me. This day I have perfected for you your religion and completed My favor upon you and have approved for you Islam as religion. But whoever is forced by severe hunger with no inclination to sin – then indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.\n\nSome sects of Christianity abstain from the consumption of pork. The prohibition is based on Leviticus chapter 11, Deuteronomy chapter 14, and Isaiah chapters 65 and 66. Some denominations that forbid pork consumption are:\n\n\nIn contrast, many members of the Macedonian Orthodox Church consider the consumption of pork an important tradition, symbolizing the survival of their ancestors' Christian identity during the times of Muslim Ottoman rule.\n\nPork is known to carry some diseases such as pork tapeworm and trichinosis and pigbel, thus uncooked or undercooked pork can be dangerous to consume, although raw pork is commonly eaten in parts of Europe \n\nUndercooked or untreated pork may harbour pathogens, or can be recontaminated after cooking if left exposed for a long period of time. In one instance, the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) detected \"Listeria monocytogenes\" in 460 lbs of Polidori brand fully cooked pork sausage crumbles, although no one was made ill from consumption of the product. The FSIS has previously stated that \"listeria\" and other microorganisms must be \"...destroyed by proper handling and thorough cooking to an internal temperature of ,\" and that other microorganisms, such as \"E. coli\", \"Salmonella\", and \"Staphylococcus aureus\" can be found in inadequately cooked pork, poultry, and other meats. The FSIS, a part of the USDA, currently recommends cooking ground pork to and whole cuts to followed by a 3-minute rest.\n\nPigs can be carriers of various helminths, such as roundworms, pinworms, hookworms. One of the more common is \"Taenia solium\", a type of tapeworm, which may transplant to the intestines of humans after consuming undercooked meat.\n\nAlthough not a common cause of illness, \"Yersinia enterocolitica\"—which causes gastroenteritis—is present in various foods, but is most frequently caused by eating uncooked or undercooked pork and can grow in refrigerated conditions. The bacteria can be killed by heat. Nearly all outbreaks in the US have been traced to pork.\n\nPork may be the reservoir responsible for sporadic, locally acquired cases of acute hepatitis E (HEV) reported in regions with relatively mild climates. It has been found to transmit between swine and humans.\n\nTrichinosis, also called trichinellosis, or trichiniasis, is a parasitic disease caused by eating raw or undercooked pork infected with the larvae of a species of roundworm \"Trichinella spiralis\", commonly called the trichina worm. Infection was once very common, but is now rare in the developed world. From 2002 to 2007, an annual average of 11 cases per year were reported in the United States; the majority were from consuming wild game or the source was unknown. The number of cases has decreased because of legislation prohibiting the feeding of raw meat garbage to hogs, increased commercial and home freezing of pork, and the public awareness of the danger of eating raw or undercooked pork or wild game products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175357", "title": "Postpartum depression", "text": "Postpartum depression\n\nPostpartum depression (PPD), also called postnatal depression, is a type of mood disorder associated with childbirth, which can affect both sexes. Symptoms may include extreme sadness, low energy, anxiety, crying episodes, irritability, and changes in sleeping or eating patterns. Onset is typically between one week and one month following childbirth. PPD can also negatively affect the newborn child.\nWhile the exact cause of PPD is unclear, the cause is believed to be a combination of physical and emotional factors. These may include factors such as hormonal changes and sleep deprivation. Risk factors include prior episodes of postpartum depression, bipolar disorder, a family history of depression, psychological stress, complications of childbirth, lack of support, or a drug use disorder. Diagnosis is based on a person's symptoms. While most women experience a brief period of worry or unhappiness after delivery, postpartum depression should be suspected when symptoms are severe and last over two weeks.\nAmong those at risk, providing psychosocial support may be protective in preventing PPD. Treatment for PPD may include counseling or medications. Types of counseling that have been found to be effective include interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT), cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and psychodynamic therapy. Tentative evidence supports the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).\nPostpartum depression affects about 15% of women around childbirth. Moreover, this mood disorder is estimated to affect 1% to 26% of new fathers. Postpartum psychosis, a more severe form of postpartum mood disorder, occurs in about 1 to 2 per 1,000 women following childbirth. Postpartum psychosis is one of the leading causes of the murder of children less than one year of age, which occurs in about 8 per 100,000 births in the United States.\nSymptoms of PPD can occur any time in the first year postpartum. Typically, a diagnosis of postpartum depression is considered after signs and symptoms persist for at least two weeks. These symptoms include, but are not limited to:\n\n\n\n\nPostpartum depression onset usually begins between two weeks to a month after delivery. A study done at an inner-city mental health clinic has shown that 50% of postpartum depressive episodes there began prior to delivery. Therefore, in the DSM-5 postpartum depression is diagnosed under \"depressive disorder with peripartum onset\", in which \"peripartum onset\" is defined as anytime either during pregnancy or within the four weeks following delivery. PPD may last several months or even a year. Postpartum depression can also occur in women who have suffered a miscarriage. For fathers, several studies show that men experience the highest levels of postpartum depression between 3–6 months postpartum.\n\nPostpartum depression can interfere with normal maternal-infant bonding and adversely affect acute and longterm child development. Postpartum depression may lead mothers to be inconsistent with childcare. These childcare inconsistencies may include feeding routines, sleep routines, and health maintenance.\n\nIn rare cases, or about 1 to 2 per 1,000, the postpartum depression appears as postpartum psychosis. In these, or among women with a history of previous psychiatric hospital admissions, infanticide may occur. In the United States, postpartum depression is one of the leading causes of annual reported infanticide incidence rate of about 8 per 100,000 births.\n\nThe cause of PPD is not well understood. Hormonal changes, genetics, and major life events have been hypothesized as potential causes.\n\nEvidence suggests that hormonal changes may play a role. Hormones which have been studied include estrogen, progesterone, thyroid hormone, testosterone, corticotropin releasing hormone, and cortisol.\n\nFathers, who are not undergoing profound hormonal changes, can also have postpartum depression. The cause may be distinct in males.\n\nProfound lifestyle changes that are brought about by caring for the infant are also frequently hypothesized to cause PPD. However, little evidence supports this hypothesis. Mothers who have had several previous children without suffering PPD can nonetheless suffer it with their latest child. Despite the biological and psychosocial changes that may accompany pregnancy and the postpartum period, most women are not diagnosed with PPD.\n\nWhile the causes of PPD are not understood, a number of factors have been suggested to increase the risk:\n\n\nOf these risk factors, formula-feeding, a history of depression, and cigarette smoking have been shown to have additive effects. Some studies have found a link with low levels of DHA in the mother.\n\nThese above factors are known to correlate with PPD. This correlation does not mean these factors are causal. Rather, they might both be caused by some third factor. Contrastingly, some factors almost certainly attribute to the cause of postpartum depression, such as lack of social support.\n\nNot surprisingly, women with fewer resources indicate a higher level of postpartum depression and stress than those women with more resources, such as financial. Rates of PPD have been shown to decrease as income increases. Women with fewer resources may be more likely to have an unintended or unwanted pregnancy, increasing risk of PPD. Women with fewer resources may also include single mothers of low income. Single mothers of low income may have more limited access to resources while transitioning into motherhood.\n\nStudies have also shown a correlation between a mother's race and postpartum depression. African American mothers have been shown to have the highest risk of PPD at 25%, while Asian mothers had the lowest at 11.5%, after controlling for social factors such as age, income, education, marital status, and baby's health. The PPD rates for First Nations, Caucasian and Hispanic women fell in between.\n\nOne of the strongest predictors of paternal PPD is having a partner who has PPD, with fathers developing PPD 50% of the time when their female partner has PPD.\n\nSexual orientation has also been studied as a risk factor for PPD. In a 2007 study conducted by Ross and colleagues, lesbian and bisexual mothers were tested for PPD and then compared with a heterosexual sample group. It was found that lesbian and bisexual biological mothers had significantly higher Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale scores than did the heterosexual women in the sample. These higher rates of PPD in lesbian/bisexual mothers may reflect less social support, particularly from their families of origin and additional stress due to homophobic discrimination in society.\n\nA correlation between postpartum thyroiditis and postpartum depression has been proposed but remains controversial. There may also be a link between postpartum depression and anti-thyroid antibodies.\n\nA meta-analysis reviewing research on the association of violence and postpartum depression showed that violence against women increases the incidence of postpartum depression. About one-third of women throughout the world will experience physical or sexual violence at some point in their lives. Violence against women occurs in conflict, post-conflict, and non-conflict areas. It is important to note that the research reviewed only looked at violence experienced by women from male perpetrators, but did not consider violence inflicted on men or women by women. Further, violence against women was defined as \"any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual, or psychological harm or suffering to women\". Psychological and cultural factors associated with increased incidence of postpartum depression include family history of depression, stressful life events during early puberty or pregnancy, anxiety or depression during pregnancy, and low social support. Violence against women is a chronic stressor, so depression may occur when someone is no longer able to respond to the violence.\n\nPostpartum depression in the DSM-5 is known as \"depressive disorder with peripartum onset\". Peripartum onset is defined as starting anytime during pregnancy or within the four weeks following delivery. There is no longer a distinction made between depressive episodes that occur during pregnancy or those that occur after delivery. Nevertheless, the majority of experts continue to diagnose postpartum depression as depression with onset anytime within the first year after delivery.\n\nThe criteria required for the diagnosis of postpartum depression are the same as those required to make a diagnosis of non-childbirth related major depression or minor depression. The criteria include at least five of the following nine symptoms, within a two-week period:\n\nPostpartum blues, commonly known as \"baby blues,\" is a transient postpartum mood disorder characterized by milder depressive symptoms than postpartum depression. This type of depression can occur in up to 80% of all mothers following delivery. Symptoms typically resolve within two weeks. Symptoms lasting longer than two weeks are a sign of a more serious type of depression. Women who experience \"baby blues\" may have a higher risk of experiencing a more serious episode of depression later on.\n\nPostpartum psychosis is not a formal diagnosis, but is widely used to describe a psychiatric emergency that appears to occur in about 1 in a 1000 pregnancies, in which symptoms of high mood and racing thoughts (mania), depression, severe confusion, loss of inhibition, paranoia, hallucinations and delusions begin suddenly in the first two weeks after delivery; the symptoms vary and can change quickly. It is different from postpartum depression and from maternity blues. It may be a form of bipolar disorder. It is important not to confuse psychosis with other symptoms that may occur after delivery, such as delirium. Delirium typically includes a loss of awareness or inability to pay attention.\n\nAbout half of women who experience postpartum psychosis have no risk factors; but a prior history of mental illness, especially bipolar disorder, a history of prior episodes of postpartum psychosis, or a family history put some at a higher risk.\n\nPostpartum psychosis often requires hospitalization, where treatment is antipsychotic medications, mood stabilizers, and in cases of strong risk for suicide, electroconvulsive therapy.\n\nThe most severe symptoms last from 2 to 12 weeks, and recovery takes 6 months to a year. Women who have been hospitalized for a psychiatric condition immediately after delivery are at a much higher risk of suicide during the first year after delivery.\n\nIn the US, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists suggests healthcare providers consider depression screening for perinatal women. Additionally, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends pediatricians screen mothers for PPD at 1-month, 2-month and 4-month visits. However, many providers do not consistently provide screening and appropriate follow-up. For example, in Canada, Alberta is the only province with universal PPD screening. This screening is carried out by Public Health nurses with the baby's immunization schedule.\n\nThe Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale, a standardized self-reported questionnaire, may be used to identify women who have postpartum depression. If the new mother scores 13 or more, she likely has PPD and further assessment should follow.\n\nA 2013 Cochrane review found evidence that psychosocial or psychological intervention after childbirth helped reduce the risk of postnatal depression. These interventions included home visits, telephone-based peer support, and interpersonal psychotherapy. Support is an important aspect of prevention, as depressed mothers commonly state that their feelings of depression were brought on by \"lack of support\" and \"feeling isolated.\"\n\nIn couples, according to a systematic review and meta-analysis of 2015, emotional closeness and global support by the partner protect against both perinatal depression and anxiety. Further factors such as communication between the couple and relationship satisfaction have a protective effect against anxiety alone.\n\nA major part of prevention is being informed about the risk factors. The medical community can play a key role in identifying and treating postpartum depression. Women should be screened by their physician to determine their risk for acquiring postpartum depression. Also, proper exercise and nutrition appear to play a role in preventing postpartum depression and depressed mood in general.\n\nIn 2018, 24% of areas in the UK have no access to perinatal mental health specialist services.\n\nTreatment for mild to moderate PPD includes psychological interventions or antidepressants. Women with moderate to severe PPD would likely experience a greater benefit with a combination of psychological and medical interventions. Exercise has been found to be useful for mild and moderate cases.\n\nBoth individual social and psychological interventions appear equally effective in the treatment of PPD. Social interventions include individual counseling and peer support, while psychological interventions include cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and interpersonal therapy (IPT). Other forms of therapy, such as group therapy and home visits, are also effective treatments.\n\nInternet-based cognitive behavioral therapy (iCBT) has shown promising results with lower negative parenting behavior scores and lower rates of anxiety, stress, and depression. iCBT may be beneficial for mothers who have limitations in accessing in person CBT. However, the long term benefits have not been determined.\n\nThere have been a few studies of medications for treating PPD, however, the sample sizes were small, thus evidence is generally weak. Some evidence suggests that mothers with PPD will respond similarly to people with major depressive disorder. There is evidence which suggests that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are effective treatment for PPD. However, a recent study has found that adding sertraline, an SSRI, to psychotherapy does not appear to confer any additional benefit. Therefore, it is not completely clear which antidepressants, if any, are most effective for treatment of PPD, and for whom antidepressants would be a better option than non-pharmacotherapy.\n\nSome studies show that hormone therapy may be effective in women with PPD, supported by the idea that the drop in estrogen and progesterone levels post-delivery contribute to depressive symptoms. However, there is some controversy with this form of treatment because estrogen should not be given to people who are at higher risk of blood clots, which include women up to 12 weeks after delivery. Additionally, none of the existing studies included women who were breastfeeding.\n\nThere are currently no antidepressants that are FDA approved for use during lactation. Most antidepressants are excreted in breast milk. However, there are limited studies showing the effects and safety of these antidepressants on breastfed babies.\n\nElectroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has shown efficacy in women with severe PPD that have either failed multiple trials of medication-based treatment or cannot tolerate the available antidepressants.\n\nAs of 2013 it is unclear if acupuncture, massage, bright lights, or taking omega-3 fatty acids are useful.\n\nPostpartum depression is found across the globe, with rates varying from 11% to 42%. Around 3% to 6% of women will experience depression during pregnancy or shortly after giving birth. About 1 in 750 mothers will have postpartum depression with psychosis and their risk is higher if they have had postpartum episodes in the past.\n\nMalay culture holds a belief in Hantu Meroyan; a spirit that resides in the placenta and amniotic fluid. When this spirit is unsatisfied and venting resentment, it causes the mother to experience frequent crying, loss of appetite, and trouble sleeping, known collectively as \"sakit meroyan\". The mother can be cured with the help of a shaman, who performs a séance to force the spirits to leave.\n\nSome cultures believe that the symptoms of postpartum depression or similar illnesses can be avoided through protective rituals in the period after birth. Chinese women participate in a ritual that is known as \"doing the month\" (confinement) in which they spend the first 30 days after giving birth resting in bed, while the mother or mother-in-law takes care of domestic duties and childcare. In addition, the new mother is not allowed to bathe or shower, wash her hair, clean her teeth, leave the house, or be blown by the wind.\n\nIn the US, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act included a section focusing on research into postpartum conditions including postpartum depression. Some argue that more resources in the form of policies, programs, and health objectives need to be directed to the care of those with PPD.\n\nThe stigma of mental health - with or without support from family members and health professionals - often deters women from seeking help for their PPD. When medical help is achieved, some women find the diagnosis helpful and encourage a higher profile for PPD amongst the health professional community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "269931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269931", "title": "Renin–angiotensin system", "text": "Renin–angiotensin system\n\nThe renin–angiotensin system (RAS) or the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system (RAAS) is a hormone system that regulates blood pressure and fluid balance.\n\nWhen renal blood flow is reduced, juxtaglomerular cells in the kidneys convert the precursor prorenin (already present in the blood) into renin and secrete it directly into circulation. Plasma renin then carries out the conversion of angiotensinogen, released by the liver, to angiotensin I. Angiotensin I is subsequently converted to angiotensin II by the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) found on the surface of vascular endothelial cells, predominantly those of the lungs. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictive peptide that causes blood vessels to narrow, resulting in increased blood pressure. Angiotensin II also stimulates the secretion of the hormone aldosterone from the adrenal cortex. Aldosterone causes the renal tubules to increase the reabsorption of sodium and water into the blood, while at the same time causing the excretion of potassium (to maintain electrolyte balance). This increases the volume of extracellular fluid in the body, which also increases blood pressure.\n\nIf the RAS is abnormally active, blood pressure will be too high. There are many drugs that interrupt different steps in this system to lower blood pressure. These drugs are one of the primary ways to control high blood pressure, heart failure, kidney failure, and harmful effects of diabetes.\n\n\"Further information: Autoregulation\n\nThe system can be activated when there is a loss of blood volume or a drop in blood pressure (such as in hemorrhage or dehydration). This loss of pressure is interpreted by baroreceptors in the carotid sinus. It can also be activated by a decrease in the filtrate sodium chloride (NaCl) concentration or a decreased filtrate flow rate that will stimulate the macula densa to signal the juxtaglomerular cells to release renin.\n\n\n\"Further reading: Angiotensin effects and Aldosterone function\"\nIt is believed that angiotensin I may have some minor activity, but angiotensin II is the major bio-active product. Angiotensin II has a variety of effects on the body:\n\nThese effects directly act together to increase blood pressure and are opposed by atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP).\n\nLocally expressed renin–angiotensin systems have been found in a number of tissues, including the kidneys, adrenal glands, the heart, vasculature and nervous system, and have a variety of functions, including local cardiovascular regulation, in association or independently of the systemic renin–angiotensin system, as well as non-cardiovascular functions. Outside the kidneys, renin is predominantly picked up from the circulation but may be secreted locally in some tissues; its precursor prorenin is highly expressed in tissues and more than half of circulating prorenin is of extrarenal origin, but its physiological role besides serving as precursor to renin is still unclear. Outside the liver, angiotensinogen is picked up from the circulation or expressed locally in some tissues; with renin they form angiotensin I, and locally expressed angiotensin-converting enzyme, chymase or other enzymes can transform it into angiotensin II. This process can be intracellular or interstitial.\n\nIn the adrenal glands, it is likely involved in the paracrine regulation of aldosterone secretion; in the heart and vasculature, it may be involved in remodeling or vascular tone; and in the brain, where it is largely independent of the circulatory RAS, it may be involved in local blood pressure regulation. In addition, both the central and peripheral nervous systems can use angiotensin for sympathetic neurotransmission. Other places of expression include the reproductive system, the skin and digestive organs. Medications aimed at the systemic system may affect the expression of those local systems, beneficially or adversely.\n\nIn the fetus, the renin–angiotensin system is predominantly a sodium-losing system, as angiotensin II has little or no effect on aldosterone levels. Renin levels are high in the fetus, while angiotensin II levels are significantly lower; this is due to the limited pulmonary blood flow, preventing ACE (found predominantly in the pulmonary circulation) from having its maximum effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "22277265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22277265", "title": "Reproductive toxicity", "text": "Reproductive toxicity\n\nReproductive toxicity is a hazard associated with some chemical substances, that they will interfere in some way with normal reproduction; such substances are called reprotoxic. It includes adverse effects on sexual function and fertility in adult males and females, as well as developmental toxicity in the offspring. It is usual to take a practical definition, including several different effects which are unrelated to each other except in their outcome of lowered effective fertility. The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) separates reproductive toxicity from germ cell mutagenicity and carcinogenicity, even though both these hazards may also affect fertility.\n\nOne well known group of substances which are toxic for reproduction are teratogens – substances which cause birth defects – of which (\"S\")-thalidomide is possibly the most notorious. Another group of substances which have received much attention (and some controversy) as possibly toxic for reproduction are the so-called endocrine disruptors. However, many substances which are toxic for reproduction do not fall into either of these groups: lead compounds, for example, are considered to be toxic for reproduction given their adverse effects on the normal intellectual and psychomotor development of human babies and children.\n\nMany drugs have effects on the human reproductive system: these may be desired (hormonal contraception), a minor unwanted side effect (many antidepressants) or a major public health problem (thalidomide). However, most studies of reproductive toxicity has focused on occupational or environmental exposure to chemicals and their effects on reproduction. It may be noted that both consumption of alcohol and tobacco smoking are known to be \"toxic for reproduction\" in the sense that the term is used here.\n\nBisphenol A (BPA) is an example of an endocrine disruptor which negatively affects reproductive development. BPA is a known as estrogen mimicker (Xenoestrogen) and a likely androgen mimicker, which is used in the production of various plastic products. BPA exposure in fetal female rats lead to mammary gland morphogenesis, increased formation of ovarian tumors, and increased risk of developing mammary gland neoplasia in adult life. Additionally, BPA affects male fertility by resulting in lower sperm quality and sex function. The toxicological impact of BPA is better understood and studied in females than in males.\n\nLead is a heavy metal that not only has been associated with mental deficits, but male infertility and male reproductive issues. Lead is believed to predominantly affect male reproduction via disruption of hormones. Through this hormonal disruption, the process of sperm production in the seminiferous tubules is reduced. Another proposed mechanism of poor semen quality due to lead exposure has been attributed to lead’s ability to cause increases in reactive oxygen species due to lipid peroxidation, leading to cellular damage.\n\nOther reproductive toxins such as Thalidomide were once prescribed and used for therapeutic effects. In the 1950s and early 1960s, Thalidomide was widely used in Europe as an anti-nausea medication to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant women. It wasn't until the 1960s was found that Thalidomide altered embryo development and led to limb deformities such as thumb absence, under development of entire limbs, or phocomelia. The teratogenic effects of Thalidomide have been proposed to affect more that ten thousand babies worldwide.\n\nDiethylstilbestrol (DES), a synthetic estrogen known to be another reproductive toxin, was used from 1938 to 1971 to prevent spontaneous abortions from occurring in women. DES causes carcinogenic and mutagenic effects via the production of highly reactive metabolites, furthermore resulting in the formation of DNA adducts. Individuals exposed to DES in utero suffer atypical reproductive tract formation. Specifically, females exposed, in utero, to DES during the first trimester have an increased risk of developing clear cell vaginal carcinoma, and males an increased risk of hypospadias.\n\n"}
{"id": "46531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46531", "title": "Richard II of England", "text": "Richard II of England\n\nRichard II (6 January 1367 – c. 14 February 1400), also known as Richard of Bordeaux, was King of England from 1377 until he was deposed in 1399. Richard, a son of Edward the Black Prince, was born in Bordeaux during the reign of his grandfather, Edward III. His father was Prince of Aquitaine. Richard was the younger brother of Edward of Angoulême, upon whose death Richard, at three years of age, became second in line to the throne after his father. Upon the death of Richard's father prior to the death of Edward III, Richard, by primogeniture, became the heir apparent to the throne. With Edward III's death the following year, Richard succeeded to the throne at the age of ten.\n\nDuring Richard's first years as king, government was in the hands of a series of councils. Most of the aristocracy preferred this to a regency led by the king's uncle, John of Gaunt, yet Gaunt remained highly influential. At the onset of Richard's accession, and then for much of his reign, England faced various problems, which included the ongoing war against France (which was not going well for the English), border conflicts with Scotland, and economic difficulties related to the Black Death. A major challenge of the reign was the Peasants' Revolt in 1381, and the young king played a central part in the successful suppression of this crisis. In the following years, however, the king's dependence on a small number of courtiers caused discontent among the influential, and in 1387 control of government was taken over by a group of aristocrats known as the Lords Appellant. By 1389 Richard had regained control, and for the next eight years governed in relative harmony with his former opponents.\n\nIn 1397, Richard took his revenge on the appellants, many of whom were executed or exiled. The next two years have been described by historians as Richard's \"tyranny\". In 1399, after John of Gaunt died, the king disinherited Gaunt's son, Henry of Bolingbroke, who had previously been exiled. Henry invaded England in June 1399 with a small force that quickly grew in numbers. Although he initially claimed that his goal was only to reclaim his patrimony, it soon became clear that Henry intended to claim the throne for himself. Meeting little resistance, Bolingbroke deposed Richard and had himself crowned as King Henry IV. Richard died in captivity in February 1400; he is thought to have been starved to death, although questions remain regarding his final fate.\n\nRichard was said to have been tall, good-looking and intelligent. Less warlike than either his father or grandfather, he sought to bring an end to the Hundred Years' War that Edward III had started. He was a firm believer in the royal prerogative, which led him to restrain the power of the aristocracy, and to rely on a private retinue for military protection instead; in contrast to the fraternal, martial court of his grandfather, he cultivated a refined atmosphere at his court, in which the king was an elevated figure, with art and culture at its centre.\n\nRichard's posthumous reputation has been shaped to a large extent by William Shakespeare, whose play \"Richard II\" portrayed Richard's misrule and his deposition by Bolingbroke as responsible for the 15th-century Wars of the Roses. Modern historians do not accept this interpretation, while not exonerating Richard from responsibility for his own deposition. While probably not insane, as historians of the 19th and 20th centuries believed, he may have had what psychologists today identify as a personality disorder, particularly manifesting itself towards the end of his reign. Most authorities agree that, even though his policies were not unrealistic or even entirely unprecedented, the way in which he carried them out was unacceptable to the political establishment, and this led to his downfall.\n\nRichard of Bordeaux was the younger son of Edward, the Black Prince, and Joan of Kent. Edward, heir apparent to the throne of England, had distinguished himself as a military commander in the early phases of the Hundred Years' War, particularly in the Battle of Poitiers in 1356. After further military adventures, however, he contracted dysentery in Spain in 1370. He never fully recovered and had to return to England the next year.\nJoan of Kent had been at the centre of a marriage dispute between Thomas Holland, Earl of Kent, and William Montacute, 2nd Earl of Salisbury, from which Holland emerged victorious. Less than a year after Holland's death in 1360, Joan married Prince Edward. Since Joan was a granddaughter of King Edward I and a first cousin of her father-in-law, King Edward III, the marriage required papal approval.\n\nRichard was born at the Archbishop's Palace, Bordeaux, in the English principality of Aquitaine, on 6 January 1367. According to contemporary sources, three kings\"the King of Castille, the King of Navarre and the King of Portugal\"were present at his birth. This anecdote, and the fact that his birth fell on the feast of Epiphany, was later used in the religious imagery of the Wilton Diptych, where Richard is one of three kings paying homage to the Virgin and Child. His elder brother Edward of Angoulême died near his sixth birthday in 1371, and Richard became his father's heir. The Black Prince finally succumbed to his long illness in June 1376. The Commons in parliament genuinely feared that Richard's uncle, John of Gaunt, would usurp the throne. For this reason, the prince was quickly invested with the princedom of Wales and his father's other titles.\n\nOn 21 June the next year, Richard's grandfather Edward III, who was for some years frail and decrepit, also died, after 50 years as England's monarch. This resulted in the 10-year-old Richard succeeding to the throne, being crowned king on 16 July 1377. Again, fears of John of Gaunt's ambitions influenced political decisions, and a regency led by the King's uncles was avoided. Instead, the king was nominally to exercise kingship with the help of a series of \"continual councils\", from which John of Gaunt was excluded. Gaunt, together with his younger brother Thomas of Woodstock, Earl of Buckingham, still held great informal influence over the business of government, but the king's councillors and friends, particularly Sir Simon de Burley and Robert de Vere, Duke of Ireland, increasingly gained control of royal affairs. In a matter of three years, these councillors earned the mistrust of the Commons to the point that the councils were discontinued in 1380. Contributing to discontent was an increasingly heavy burden of taxation levied through three poll taxes between 1377 and 1381 that were spent on unsuccessful military expeditions on the continent. By 1381, there was a deep-felt resentment against the governing classes in the lower levels of English society.\n\nWhereas the poll tax of 1381 was the spark of the Peasants' Revolt, the root of the conflict lay in tensions between peasants and landowners precipitated by the economic and demographic consequences of the Black Death and subsequent outbreaks of the plague. The rebellion started in Kent and Essex in late May, and on 12 June, bands of peasants gathered at Blackheath near London under the leaders Wat Tyler, John Ball, and Jack Straw. John of Gaunt's Savoy Palace was burnt down. The Archbishop of Canterbury, Simon Sudbury, who was also Lord Chancellor, and the king's Lord High Treasurer, Robert Hales, were both killed by the rebels, who were demanding the complete abolition of serfdom. The king, sheltered within the Tower of London with his councillors, agreed that the Crown did not have the forces to disperse the rebels and that the only feasible option was to negotiate.\n\nIt is unclear how much Richard, who was still only fourteen years old, was involved in these deliberations, although historians have suggested that he was among the proponents of negotiations. The king set out by the River Thames on 13 June, but the large number of people thronging the banks at Greenwich made it impossible for him to land, forcing him to return to the Tower. The next day, Friday, 14 June, he set out by horse and met the rebels at Mile End. The king agreed to the rebels' demands, but this move only emboldened them; they continued their looting and killings. Richard met Wat Tyler again the next day at Smithfield and reiterated that the demands would be met, but the rebel leader was not convinced of the king's sincerity. The king's men grew restive, an altercation broke out, and William Walworth, the mayor of London, pulled Tyler down from his horse and killed him. The situation became tense once the rebels realised what had happened, but the king acted with calm resolve and, saying \"I am your captain, follow me!\", he led the mob away from the scene. Walworth meanwhile gathered a force to surround the peasant army, but the king granted clemency and allowed the rebels to disperse and return to their homes.\n\nThe king soon revoked the charters of freedom and pardon that he had granted, and as disturbances continued in other parts of the country, he personally went into Essex to suppress the rebellion. On 28 June at Billericay, he defeated the last rebels in a small skirmish and effectively ended the Peasants' Revolt. Despite his young age, Richard had shown great courage and determination in his handling of the rebellion. It is likely, though, that the events impressed upon him the dangers of disobedience and threats to royal authority, and helped shape the absolutist attitudes to kingship that would later prove fatal to his reign.\n\nIt is only with the Peasants' Revolt that Richard starts to emerge clearly in the annals. One of his first significant acts after the rebellion was to marry Anne of Bohemia, daughter of the Holy Roman Emperor (King of Bohemia Charles IV) and his wife Elisabeth of Pomerania, on 20 January 1382. The marriage had diplomatic significance; in the division of Europe caused by the Western Schism, Bohemia and the Empire were seen as potential allies against France in the ongoing Hundred Years' War. Nonetheless, the marriage was not popular in England. Despite great sums of money awarded to the Empire, the political alliance never resulted in any military victories. Furthermore, the marriage was childless. Anne died from plague in 1394, greatly mourned by her husband.\n\nMichael de la Pole had been instrumental in the marriage negotiations; he had the king's confidence and gradually became more involved at court and in government as Richard came of age. De la Pole came from an upstart merchant family. When Richard made him chancellor in 1383, and created him Earl of Suffolk two years later, this antagonised the more established nobility. Another member of the close circle around the king was Robert de Vere, Earl of Oxford, who in this period emerged as the king's favourite. Richard's close friendship to de Vere was also disagreeable to the political establishment. This displeasure was exacerbated by the earl's elevation to the new title of Duke of Ireland in 1386. The chronicler Thomas Walsingham suggested the relationship between the king and de Vere was of a homosexual nature, due to a resentment Walsingham had toward the king.\n\nTensions came to a head over the approach to the war in France. While the court party preferred negotiations, Gaunt and Buckingham urged a large-scale campaign to protect English possessions. Instead, a so-called crusade led by Henry le Despenser, Bishop of Norwich, was dispatched, which failed miserably. Faced with this setback on the continent, Richard turned his attention instead towards France's ally, Scotland. In 1385, the king himself led a punitive expedition to the north, but the effort came to nothing, and the army had to return without ever engaging the Scots in battle. Meanwhile, only an uprising in Ghent prevented a French invasion of southern England. The relationship between Richard and his uncle John of Gaunt deteriorated further with military failure, and John of Gaunt left England to pursue his claim to the throne of Castile in 1386 amid rumours of a plot against his person. With Gaunt gone, the unofficial leadership of the growing dissent against the king and his courtiers passed to Buckinghamwho had by now been created Duke of Gloucesterand Richard Fitzalan, Earl of Arundel.\n\nThe threat of a French invasion did not subside, but instead grew stronger into 1386. At the parliament of October that year, Michael de la Polein his capacity of chancellorrequested taxation of an unprecedented level for the defence of the realm. Rather than consenting, the parliament responded by refusing to consider any request until the chancellor was removed. The parliament (later known as the Wonderful Parliament) was presumably working with the support of Gloucester and Arundel. The king famously responded that he would not dismiss as much as a scullion from his kitchen at parliament's request. Only when threatened with deposition was Richard forced to give in and let de la Pole go. A commission was set up to review and control royal finances for a year.\n\nRichard was deeply perturbed by this affront to his royal prerogative, and from February to November 1387 went on a \"gyration\" (tour) of the country to muster support for his cause. By installing de Vere as Justice of Chester, he began the work of creating a loyal military power base in Cheshire. He also secured a legal ruling from Chief Justice Robert Tresilian that parliament's conduct had been unlawful and treasonable.\n\nOn his return to London, the king was confronted by Thomas of Woodstock (now Duke of Gloucester), Arundel and Thomas de Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, who brought an appeal of treason against de la Pole, de Vere, Tresilian, and two other loyalists: the mayor of London, Nicholas Brembre, and Alexander Neville, the Archbishop of York. Richard stalled the negotiations to gain time, as he was expecting de Vere to arrive from Cheshire with military reinforcements. The three earls then joined forces with Henry Bolingbroke, Earl of Derby (Gaunt's son, later King Henry IV), and Thomas de Mowbray, Earl of Nottinghamthe group known to history as the Lords Appellant. On 20 December 1387 they intercepted de Vere at Radcot Bridge, where he and his forces were routed and he was obliged to flee the country.\n\nRichard now had no choice but to comply with the appellants' demands; Brembre and Tresilian were condemned and executed, while de Vere and de la Polewho had by now also left the countrywere sentenced to death \"in absentia\" at the Merciless Parliament in February 1388. The proceedings went further, and a number of Richard's chamber knights were also executed, among these Burley. The appellants had now succeeded completely in breaking up the circle of favourites around the king.\n\nRichard gradually re-established royal authority in the months after the deliberations of the Merciless Parliament. The aggressive foreign policy of the Lords Appellant failed when their efforts to build a wide, anti-French coalition came to nothing, and the north of England fell victim to a Scottish incursion. Richard was now over twenty-one years old and could with confidence claim the right to govern in his own name. Furthermore, John of Gaunt returned to England in 1389 and settled his differences with the king, after which the old statesman acted as a moderating influence on English politics. Richard assumed full control of the government on 3 May 1389, claiming that the difficulties of the past years had been due solely to bad councillors. He outlined a foreign policy that reversed the actions of the appellants by seeking peace and reconciliation with France, and promised to lessen the burden of taxation on the people significantly. Richard ruled peacefully for the next eight years, having reconciled with his former adversaries. Still, later events would show that he had not forgotten the indignities he perceived. In particular, the execution of his former teacher Sir Simon de Burley was an insult not easily forgotten.\nWith national stability secured, Richard began negotiating a permanent peace with France. A proposal put forward in 1393 would have greatly expanded the territory of Aquitaine possessed by the English crown. However, the plan failed because it included a requirement that the English king pay homage to the King of Francea condition that proved unacceptable to the English public. Instead, in 1396, a truce was agreed to, which was to last 28 years. As part of the truce, Richard agreed to marry Isabella, daughter of Charles VI of France, when she came of age. There were some misgivings about the betrothal, in particular because the princess was then only six years old, and thus would not be able to produce an heir to the throne of England for many years.\n\nAlthough Richard sought peace with France, he took a different approach to the situation in Ireland. The English lordships in Ireland were in danger of being overrun, and the Anglo-Irish lords were pleading for the king to intervene. In the autumn of 1394, Richard left for Ireland, where he remained until May 1395. His army of more than 8,000 men was the largest force brought to the island during the late Middle Ages. The invasion was a success, and a number of Irish chieftains submitted to English overlordship. It was one of the most successful achievements of Richard's reign, and strengthened the king's support at home, although the consolidation of the English position in Ireland proved to be short-lived.\n\nThe period that historians refer to as the \"tyranny\" of Richard II began towards the end of the 1390s. The king had Gloucester, Arundel and Warwick arrested in July 1397. The timing of these arrests and Richard's motivation are not entirely clear. Although one chronicle suggested that a plot was being planned against the king, there is no evidence that this was the case. It is more likely that Richard had simply come to feel strong enough to safely retaliate against these three men for their role in events of 1386–88 and eliminate them as threats to his power. Arundel was the first of the three to be brought to trial, at the parliament of September 1397. After a heated quarrel with the king, he was condemned and executed. Gloucester was being held prisoner by the Earl of Nottingham at Calais while awaiting his trial. As the time for the trial drew near, Nottingham brought news that Gloucester was dead. It is thought likely that the king had ordered him to be killed to avoid the disgrace of executing a prince of the blood. Warwick was also condemned to death, but his life was spared and his sentence reduced to life imprisonment. Arundel's brother Thomas Arundel, the Archbishop of Canterbury, was exiled for life. Richard then took his persecution of adversaries to the localities. While recruiting retainers for himself in various counties, he prosecuted local men who had been loyal to the appellants. The fines levied on these men brought great revenues to the crown, although contemporary chroniclers raised questions about the legality of the proceedings.\nThese actions were made possible primarily through the collusion of John of Gaunt, but with the support of a large group of other magnates, many of whom were rewarded with new titles, who were disparagingly referred to as Richard's \"duketti\". These included the former Appellants Henry Bolingbroke, Earl of Derby, who was made Duke of Hereford, and Thomas de Mowbray, Earl of Nottingham, who was created Duke of Norfolk. Also among them were John and Thomas Holland, the king's half-brother and nephew, who were promoted from earls of Huntingdon and Kent to dukes of Exeter and Surrey respectively; the Duke of York's son Edward, Earl of Rutland, who received Gloucester's French title of Duke of Aumale; Gaunt's son John Beaufort, Earl of Somerset, who was made Marquess of Somerset and Marquess of Dorset; John Montacute, Earl of Salisbury; and Lord Thomas le Despenser, who became Earl of Gloucester. With the forfeited lands of the convicted appellants, the king could reward these men with lands suited to their new ranks.\n\nA threat to Richard's authority still existed, however, in the form of the House of Lancaster, represented by John of Gaunt and his son Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Hereford. The House of Lancaster not only possessed greater wealth than any other family in England, they were of royal descent and, as such, likely candidates to succeed the childless Richard. Discord broke out in the inner circles of court in December 1397, when Bolingbroke and Mowbray became embroiled in a quarrel. According to Bolingbroke, Mowbray had claimed that the two, as former Lords Appellant, were next in line for royal retribution. Mowbray vehemently denied these charges, as such a claim would have amounted to treason. A parliamentary committee decided that the two should settle the matter by battle, but at the last moment Richard exiled the two dukes instead: Mowbray for life, Bolingbroke for ten years. On 3 February 1399, John of Gaunt died. Rather than allowing Bolingbroke to succeed, Richard extended the term of his exile to life and expropriated his properties. The king felt safe from Bolingbroke, who was residing in Paris, since the French had little interest in any challenge to Richard and his peace policy. Richard left the country in May for another expedition in Ireland.\n\nIn 1398 Richard summoned a packed Parliament to Shrewsbury—known as the Parliament of Shrewsbury—which declared all the acts of the Merciless Parliament to be null and void, and announced that no restraint could legally be put on the king. It delegated all parliamentary power to a committee of twelve lords and six commoners chosen from the king's friends, making Richard an absolute ruler unbound by the necessity of gathering a Parliament again.\n\nIn June 1399, Louis, Duke of Orléans, gained control of the court of the insane Charles VI of France. The policy of \"rapprochement\" with the English crown did not suit Louis's political ambitions, and for this reason he found it opportune to allow Henry to leave for England. With a small group of followers, Bolingbroke landed at Ravenspur in Yorkshire towards the end of June 1399. Men from all over the country soon rallied around the duke. Meeting with Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland, who had his own misgivings about the king, Bolingbroke insisted that his only object was to regain his own patrimony. Percy took him at his word and declined to interfere. The king had taken most of his household knights and the loyal members of his nobility with him to Ireland, so Henry experienced little resistance as he moved south. Edmund of Langley, Duke of York, who was acting as Keeper of the Realm, had little choice but to side with Bolingbroke. Meanwhile, Richard was delayed in his return from Ireland and did not land in Wales until 24 July. He made his way to Conwy, where on 12 August he met with the Earl of Northumberland for negotiations. On 19 August, Richard II surrendered to Henry at Flint Castle, promising to abdicate if his life were spared. Both men then returned to London, the indignant king riding all the way behind Henry. On arrival, he was imprisoned in the Tower of London on 1 September.\nHenry was by now fully determined to take the throne, but presenting a rationale for this action proved a dilemma. It was argued that Richard, through his tyranny and misgovernment, had rendered himself unworthy of being king. However, Henry was not next in line to the throne; the heir presumptive was Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March, who was descended from Edward III's third son, the second to survive to adulthood, Lionel of Antwerp. Bolingbroke's father, John of Gaunt, was Edward's fourth son, the third to survive to adulthood. The problem was solved by emphasising Henry's descent in a direct \"male\" line, whereas March's descent was through his grandmother.\n\nAccording to the official record (read by Thomas Arundel, archbishop of Canterbury, during an assembly of lords and commons at Westminster Hall on Tuesday 30 September), Richard gave up his crown willingly and ratified his deposition citing as a reason his own unworthiness as a monarch. On the other hand, the \"Traison et Mort Chronicle\" suggests otherwise. It describes a meeting between Richard and Henry that took place one day before the parliament's session. The king succumbed to blind rage, ordered his release from the Tower, called his cousin a traitor, demanded to see his wife and swore revenge throwing down his bonnet, while the duke refused to do anything without parliamentary approval.\n\nWhen parliament met to discuss Richard's fate, the bishop of St Asaph read thirty-three articles of deposition that were unanimously accepted by lords and commons. On 1 October 1399, Richard II was formally deposed and on 13 October, the feast day of Edward the Confessor, Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster, was crowned Henry IV of England. King Henry agreed to let him live but only for one condition. To give up His claim to the throne. Richard agreed. This all changed when it was revealed that the earls of Huntingdon, Kent and Salisbury and Lord Despenser, and possibly also the Earl of Rutlandall now demoted from the ranks they had been given by Richardwere planning to murder the new king and restore Richard in the Epiphany Rising. Although averted, the plot highlighted the danger of allowing Richard to live. He is thought to have starved to death in captivity on or around 14 February 1400, although there is some question over the date and manner of his death. His body was taken south from Pontefract and displayed in the old St Paul's Cathedral on 17 February before burial in King's Langley Priory on 6 March.\n\nRumours that Richard was still alive persisted, but never gained much credence in England; in Scotland, however, a man identified as Richard came into the hands of Regent Albany, lodged in Stirling Castle, and serving as the notionaland perhaps reluctantfigurehead of various anti-Lancastrian and Lollard intrigues in England. Henry IV's government dismissed him as an impostor, and several sources from both sides of the Border suggest the man had a mental illness, one also describing him as a \"beggar\" by the time of his death in 1419, but he was buried as a king in the local Dominican friary in Stirling. Meanwhile, in 1413, Henry Vin an effort both to atone for his father's act of murder and to silence the rumours of Richard's survivalhad decided to have the body at King's Langley moved to its final resting place in Westminster Abbey. Here Richard himself had prepared an elaborate tomb, where the remains of his wife Anne were already entombed.\n\nIn the last years of Richard's reign, and particularly in the months after the suppression of the appellants in 1397, the king enjoyed a virtual monopoly on power in the country, a relatively uncommon situation in medieval England. In this period a particular court culture was allowed to emerge, one that differed sharply from that of earlier times. A new form of address developed; where the king previously had been addressed simply as \"highness\", now \"royal majesty\", or \"high majesty\" were often used. It was said that on solemn festivals Richard would sit on his throne in the royal hall for hours without speaking, and anyone on whom his eyes fell had to bow his knees to the king. The inspiration for this new sumptuousness and emphasis on dignity came from the courts on the continent, not only the French and Bohemian courts that had been the homes of Richard's two wives, but also the court that the Black Prince had maintained while residing in Aquitaine.\n\nRichard's approach to kingship was rooted in his strong belief in the royal prerogative, the inspiration of which can be found in his early youth, when his authority was challenged first by the Peasants' Revolts and then by the Lords Appellant. Richard rejected the approach his grandfather, Edward III, had taken to the nobility. Edward's court had been a martial one, based on the interdependence between the king and his most trusted noblemen as military captains. In Richard's view, this put a dangerous amount of power in the hands of the baronage. To avoid dependence on the nobility for military recruitment, he pursued a policy of peace towards France. At the same time, he developed his own private military retinue, larger than that of any English king before him, and gave them livery badges with his White Hart, which are also worn by the angels in the Wilton Diptych (right). He was then free to develop a courtly atmosphere in which the king was a distant, venerated figure, and art and culture, rather than warfare, were at the centre.\n\nAs part of Richard's programme of asserting his authority, he also tried to cultivate the royal image. Unlike any other English king before him, he had himself portrayed in panel paintings of elevated majesty, of which two survive: the over life-size Westminster Abbey portrait of the king (c. 1390, see top of page), and the Wilton Diptych (1394–99), a portable work probably intended to accompany Richard on his Irish campaign. It is one of the few surviving English examples of the courtly International Gothic style of painting that was developed in the courts of the Continent, especially Prague and Paris. Richard's expenditure on jewellery, rich textiles and metalwork was far higher than on paintings, but as with his illuminated manuscripts, there are hardly any surviving works that can be connected with him, except for a crown, \"one of the finest achievements of the Gothic goldsmith\", that probably belonged to Anne.\nAmong Richard's grandest projects in the field of architecture was Westminster Hall, which was extensively rebuilt during his reign, perhaps spurred on by the completion in 1391 of John of Gaunt's magnificent hall at Kenilworth Castle. Fifteen life-size statues of kings were placed in niches on the walls, and the hammer-beam roof by the royal carpenter Hugh Herland, \"the greatest creation of medieval timber architecture\", allowed the original three Romanesque aisles to be replaced with a single huge open space, with a dais at the end for Richard to sit in solitary state. The rebuilding had been begun by Henry III in 1245, but had by Richard's time been dormant for over a century.\n\nThe court's patronage of literature is especially important, because this was the period in which the English language took shape as a literary language. There is little evidence to tie Richard directly to patronage of poetry, but it was nevertheless within his court that this culture was allowed to thrive. The greatest poet of the age, Geoffrey Chaucer, served the king as a diplomat, a customs official and a clerk of The King's Works while producing some of his best-known work. Chaucer was also in the service of John of Gaunt, and wrote \"The Book of the Duchess\" as a eulogy to Gaunt's wife Blanche. Chaucer's colleague and friend John Gower wrote his \"Confessio Amantis\" on a direct commission from Richard, although he later grew disenchanted with the king.\n\nContemporary writers, even those less sympathetic to the king, agreed that Richard was a \"most beautiful king\", though with a \"face which was white, rounded and feminine\", implying he lacked manliness. He was athletic and tall; when his tomb was opened in 1871 he was found to be six feet tall. He was also intelligent and well read, and when agitated he had a tendency to stammer. While the Westminster Abbey portrait probably shows a good similarity of the king, the Wilton Diptych portrays the king as significantly younger than he was at the time; it must be assumed that he had a beard by this point. Religiously, he was orthodox, and particularly towards the end of his reign he became a strong opponent of the Lollard heresy. He was particularly devoted to the cult of Edward the Confessor, and around 1395 he had his own coat of arms impaled with the mythical arms of the Confessor. Though not a warrior king like his grandfather, Richard nevertheless enjoyed tournaments, as well as hunting.\n\nThe popular view of Richard has more than anything been influenced by Shakespeare's play about the king, \"Richard II\". Shakespeare's Richard was a cruel, vindictive and irresponsible king, who attained a semblance of greatness only after his fall from power. Writing a work of fiction, however, Shakespeare took many liberties and made great omissions. Shakespeare based his play on works by writers such as Edward Hall and Samuel Daniel, who in turn based their writings on contemporary chroniclers such as Thomas Walsingham. Hall and Daniel were part of Tudor historiography, which was highly unsympathetic to Richard. The Tudor orthodoxy, reinforced by Shakespeare, saw a continuity in civil discord starting with Richard's misrule that did not end until Henry VII's accession in 1485. The idea that Richard was to blame for the later-15th century Wars of the Roses was prevalent as late as the 19th century, but came to be challenged in the 20th. Some recent historians prefer to look at the Wars of the Roses in isolation from the reign of Richard II.\n\nRichard's mental state has been a major issue of historical debate since the first academic historians started treating the subject in the 19th century. One of the first modern historians to deal with Richard II as a king and as a person was Bishop Stubbs. Stubbs argued that towards the end of his reign, Richard's mind \"was losing its balance altogether\". Historian Anthony Steel, who wrote a full-scale biography of the king in 1941, took a psychiatric approach to the issue, and concluded that the king had schizophrenia. This was challenged by V. H. Galbraith, who argued that there was no historical basis for such a diagnosis, a line that has also been followed by later historians of the period, such as Anthony Goodman and Anthony Tuck. Nigel Saul, who wrote the most recent academic biography on Richard II, concedes thateven though there is no basis for assuming the king had a mental illnesshe showed clear signs of a narcissistic personality, and towards the end of his reign \"Richard's grasp on reality was becoming weaker\".\n\nOne of the primary historiographical questions surrounding Richard concerns his political agenda and the reasons for its failure. His kingship was thought to contain elements of the early modern absolute monarchy as exemplified by the Tudor dynasty. More recently, Richard's concept of kingship has been seen by some as not so different from that of his antecedents, and that it was exactly by staying within the framework of traditional monarchy that he was able to achieve as much as he did. Yet his actions were too extreme, and too abrupt. For one, the absence of war was meant to reduce the burden of taxation, and so help Richard's popularity with the Commons in parliament. However, this promise was never fulfilled, as the cost of the royal retinue, the opulence of court and Richard's lavish patronage of his favourites proved as expensive as war had been, without offering commensurate benefits. As for his policy of military retaining, this was later emulated by Edward IV and Henry VII, but Richard's exclusive reliance on the county of Cheshire hurt his support from the rest of the country. As Simon Walker concludes: \"What he sought was, in contemporary terms, neither unjustified nor unattainable; it was the manner of his seeking that betrayed him.\"\n\n\na. John of Gaunt's brother Edmund of Langley was only one year younger, but it has been suggested that this prince was of \"limited ability\", and he took less part in government than Gaunt did.<br>\nb. It has been speculated that the whole incident surrounding the killing of Wat Tyler was in fact planned in advance by the council, in order to end the rebellion.<br>\nc. While both England and the Empire supported Pope Urban VI in Rome, the French sided with the Avignon Papacy of Clement VII.<br>\nd. This \"appeal\"which would give its name to the Lords Appellantwas not an appeal in the modern sense of an application to a higher authority. In medieval common law the appeal was criminal charge, often one of treason.<br>\ne. Beaufort was the oldest of John of Gaunt's children with Katherine Swynford; illegitimate children whom Richard had given legitimate status in 1390. He was made Marquess of Dorset; marquess being a relatively new title in England up until this point. Rutland, heir to the Duke of York, was created Duke of Aumale. Montacute had succeeded his uncle as Earl of Salisbury earlier the same year. Despenser, the great-grandson of Hugh Despenser the Younger, Edward II's favourite who was executed for treason in 1326, was given the forfeited earldom of Gloucester.<br>\nf. Though it had become established tradition for earldoms to descend in the male line, there was no such tradition for royal succession in England. The precedence could indeed be seen to invalidate the English claim to the French throne, based on succession through the female line, over which the Hundred Years' War was being fought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27646475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646475", "title": "Richard Roberts (sea captain)", "text": "Richard Roberts (sea captain)\n\nRichard Roberts (1803–1841) was an Irish sea captain. He entered the Royal Navy in his youth and served with them until he gained the rank of Lieutenant, and was given command of the SS \"Sirius\". With Roberts at the helm, the \"Sirius\" became the first steamship to travel across the Atlantic to America, in April 1838. Shortly afterward, he was transferred to the SS \"President\", which was lost at sea in March 1841. Roberts is presumed to have gone down with the ship.\n\nRoberts loved the sea so, that he's quoted as saying \"..I'd go to sea in a bath tub[washing-tub]\".\n\n\n[Reference:- Journal of the Cork Historical & Archaeological Society Vol.1 (1895), 156]\n"}
{"id": "21707790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21707790", "title": "Robovirus", "text": "Robovirus\n\nA robovirus is a zoonotic virus that is transmitted by a rodent vector (i.e., \"ro\"dent \"bo\"rne).\n\nRoboviruses mainly belong to the virus families Arenaviridae and Hantaviridae. Like arbovirus (\"ar\"thropod \"bo\"rne) and tibovirus (\"ti\"ck \"bo\"rne) the name refers to its method of transmission, known as its vector. This is distinguished from a clade, which groups around a common ancestor. Some scientists now refer to arbovirus and robovirus together with the term ArboRobo-virus.\n\nRodent borne disease can be transmitted through different forms of contact such as rodent bites, scratches, urine, saliva, etc. Potential sites of contact with rodents include habitats such as barns, outbuildings, sheds, and dense urban areas. Transmission of disease through rodents can be spread to humans through direct handling and contact, or indirectly through rodents carrying the disease spread to ticks, mites, fleas (arboborne).\n\nOne example of a robovirus is hantavirus, which causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. Humans can be infected with Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome through direct contact with rodent drippings, saliva, or urine infected with strains of the virus. These components mix into the air and get transmitted when inhaled through airborne transmission.\n\nLassa virus from the \"Arenaviridae\" family causes Lassa hemorrhagic fever and is also a robovirus transmitted by the rodent genus \"Mastomys natalensis\".The multimammate rat is able to excrete the virus in its urine and droppings. These rat are often found in the savannas and forests of Africa. When these rats scavenge and enter households this provides an outlet for direct contact transmission with humans. It has also been found that airborne transmission can occur by engaging in cleaning activities such as sweeping. In some areas of Africa, the Mastomys rodent is caught and used as a source of food. This process can also lead to transmission and infection.\n\nRat-bite Fever (RBF) is an rodent borne disease caused by two types of bacteria, \"Streptobacillus moniliformis\", which is predominant in North America and \"Spirillum minus\", predominantly in Asia. Rat-bite fever is contacted by bites or scratches from an infected rodent, contaminated food or beverages with either bacteria, or by handling rodents with the disease, without necessarily being bitten or scratched by the rodent.\n\nColorado Tick Fever virus causes high fevers, chills, headache, fatigue and sometimes vomiting, skin rash, and abdominal pain. The virus is caused by a Rock Mountain wood tick (\"Dermacentro Andersoni\"). It is an arbovirus, but rodents serve as the reservoir. The tick is carried by five species of rodents: the least chipmunk (Eutamias minimus, Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richarsoni), deer mice (Peromyscus manipulates), the golden mantled squirrel (Spermophilus laterals), and the Uinta chipmunk ( Eutamias umbrinus). The infected tick will be carried by its rodent host and infect another host (animal or human) as it feeds.\n\nRodents can serve as the primary reservoir host of obligate intracellular protozoa from the genus \"Leishmania\". The resulting disease, cutaneous leishmaniasis, causes large skin lesions on the face, arms, and legs.\n\nRodent populations are affected by a number of diverse factors, including climactic conditions. Warmer winters and increased rainfall will make it more likely for rodent populations to survive, therefore increasing the number of rodent reservoirs for disease. Increased rainfall accompanied by flooding can also increase human to rodent contact Global climate change will affect the distribution and prevalence of roboviruses. Inadequate hygiene and sanitation, as seen in some European countries, also contribute to increase rodent populations and higher risks of rodent borne disease transmission.\n"}
{"id": "2197512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197512", "title": "Salvador Agron", "text": "Salvador Agron\n\nSalvador Agron (April 24, 1943 – April 22, 1986), a.k.a. \"The Capeman\", was a Puerto Rican gang member who murdered two teenagers in a Hell's Kitchen park in 1959. Agron mistook both teenagers for members of a gang called the Norsemen who were supposed to show up for a gang fight. Agron was the subject of the musical \"The Capeman\" by Paul Simon.\n\nAgron was born in the city of Mayagüez on the western coast of Puerto Rico. When he was young, his parents divorced and his mother had custody of him and his sister, Aurea. She earned a living by working at a local convent; however, according to Agron, he and his sister were mistreated by the nuns. His mother met and married a Pentecostal minister and the family moved to New York City. Agron's relationship with his stepfather was negative, and he asked his mother to send him back to Puerto Rico to live with his father. In Puerto Rico, his father had remarried. One day the teenage Agron found the body of his stepmother, who had committed suicide by hanging herself. Agron began to get into trouble and was sent to the Industrial School of Mayagüez.\n\nHis father sent him back to his mother in New York, and in 1958 he became a member of notorious teenage street gang the Mau Maus from the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn. He later joined another gang called the Vampires after meeting Tony Hernandez, the gang's president. On August 29, 1959, the Vampires were on their way to \"rumble\" (street gang fight) with a gang composed mostly of Irish Americans called the Norsemen. When they arrived, they mistook a group of teenagers for members of the Norsemen. Agron stabbed two of the teenagers to death and fled the scene. The two victims were Anthony Krzesinski and Robert Young, Jr.\n\nThe murders made headlines in New York and the city went into an uproar. Agron was called \"The Capeman\" because he wore a black cape with red lining during the fight, while Hernandez was labeled \"The Umbrella Man\" because he used an umbrella with a sharp end as a weapon. After Agron was captured, he was quoted as saying: \"I don't care if I burn, my mother could watch me.\"\n\nAgron was sentenced to death, which made the 16-year-old the youngest prisoner ever sentenced to death row in New York. While many New Yorkers were outraged about the killings, others like former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and Robert Young, the father of one of the victims, campaigned for leniency. While on death row, Agron became a born-again Christian. In prison he learned to read and write, earning his high school equivalency diploma. He wrote poems about his life and street life, including \"The Political Identity of Salvador Agron; Travel Log of Thirty-Four Years\", \"Uhuru Sasa! (A Freedom Call)\", and \"Justice, Law and Order\", which were published by some newspapers. He later earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in sociology and philosophy from the State University of New York in New Paltz, New York. His death sentence was commuted to life in prison by Governor Nelson Rockefeller in 1962.\n\nIn December 1976, Governor Hugh Carey reduced Agron's sentence, making him eligible for release in 1977. Agron was enrolled at SUNY New Paltz while spending his nights at the Fishkill Correctional Facility. However, in April 1977, Agron took flight and absconded to Phoenix where he was captured two weeks later and brought back to New York. In November 1977, Agron went on trial for his escape (his lawyer was William Kunstler), but was found not guilty of absconding due to \"mental illness.\" Agron was finally released from prison on November 1, 1979. A television movie based on his life was proposed and he set up a fund for the families of his victims with the money he received.\n\nAgron began working as a youth counselor, and spoke out against gang violence for over five years. On April 16, 1986, he was admitted to a hospital with pneumonia and internal bleeding and died six days later at age 42.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22552858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22552858", "title": "Solenopora", "text": "Solenopora\n\nThe extinct Solenoporaceae have traditionally been interpreted as a group of red algae ancestral to the Corallinales.\n\nThe genus from which they take their name, Solenopora, originates in the Ordovician. Unlike the Corallinaceae, this family has large vegetative cells and an undifferentiated thallus.\nAdditionally there are external, non-calcified sporangia.\n\nThe differences in structure suggest that the holotype is not an alga at all, but rather is a chaetetid sponge. Post-Palaeozoic specimens therefore require re-classification. However, some algal taxa are still classified within the genus.\n\nSome specimens of algal \"Solenopora\" retain an original pink colouration, which is banded with growth stages of the fossil; this is produced by boron-containing hydrocarbons.\n\nThe solenoporaceae mineralized with calcite.\n\nAlthough the following other genera have been included in this family, their status is uncertain due to the loose definition of the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "214618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214618", "title": "Somatic (biology)", "text": "Somatic (biology)\n\nThe term somatic is often used in biology to refer to the cells of the body in contrast to the germ line cells which usually give rise to the gametes (ovum or sperm). These somatic cells are diploid containing two copies of each chromosome, whereas the germ cells are haploid as they only contain one copy of each chromosome. Although under normal circumstances all somatic cells in an organism contain identical DNA, they develop a variety of tissue-specific characteristics. This process is called differentiation, through epigenetic and regulatory alterations. The grouping of like cells and tissues creates the foundation for organs.\n\nSomatic mutations are changes to the genetics of a multi-cellular organism which are not passed on to its offspring through the germ-line. Many cancers are somatic mutations.\n\nSomatic is also defined as relating to the wall of the body cavity, particularly as distinguished from the head, limbs or viscera.\n\nIt is also used in the term somatic nervous system which is the portion of the vertebrate nervous system which regulates voluntary movements of the body.\n\nThe frequency of mutations in mouse somatic tissue (brain, liver, Sertoli cells) was compared to the mutation frequency in male germline cells at sequential stages of spermatogenesis. The spontaneous mutation frequency was found to be significantly higher (5 to 10-fold) in the somatic cell types than in the male germline cells. In female mice, somatic cells were also found to have a higher mutation frequency than germline cells. It was suggested that elevated levels of DNA repair enzymes play a prominent role in the lower mutation frequency of male and female germline cells, and that enhanced genetic integrity is a fundamental characteristic of germline cells. DNA repair processes can remove DNA damages that would, otherwise, upon DNA replication, cause mutation.\n\n"}
{"id": "501086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501086", "title": "Speedrun", "text": "Speedrun\n\nA speedrun is a play-through (or a recording thereof) of a video game performed with the intention of completing it as fast as possible. Speedruns may cover a whole game or a selected part, such as a single level. While all speedruns aim for quick completion, some speedruns are characterized by additional rules that players promise to obey, such as collecting all key items. Players attempt speedruns mainly to challenge themselves and to entertain and compete with others.\n\nPlayers performing speedruns call themselves speedrunners and often record their attempts. These recordings are used to entertain others, to verify the completion time, to certify that all rules were followed, and to spot ways to further improve the completion time.\n\nTo achieve a high level of play, speedrunners often have to reason about the game differently from the way that ordinary players might. Speedruns usually follow gameplay routes that are planned out carefully before they are attempted. Many games have opportunities to disarrange the intended sequence of events and skip entire parts of it — often called sequence breaking — and many more have programming mistakes, or glitches, that a skillful player can exploit to their advantage. Tool-assisted speedrunning is a type of speedrunning in which various computer tools are used to obtain performances which would be near-impossible for a human player.\n\nSome games are considered to be particularly suited to speedrunning and have online communities dedicated to them, which can provide an active platform for discussing, publishing, and improving speedruns. Speedruns can be viewed on a variety of platforms, including live streams where players can carry out and share their attempts in real-time. Although speedrunning was originally not a widespread phenomenon, it has since grown to involve several active websites and an increasingly expansive assortment of speedrun videos that are freely and widely circulated on the Internet.\n\nWhile routing, it becomes apparent that some of the goals in the game do not need to be achieved for completion. Such elements include cutscenes that need to be watched before the player can progress, items that the player needs to possess in order to continue to a next stage, or even entire parts of the gameplay that may convey a part of the game's plot or a subplot. Skipping a part of the game in such a fashion that it can be described as disjointed with the game's intended/common sequence of events is referred to as \"sequence breaking\".\n\nThe term \"sequence break\" was first used in 2003 in an online discussion forum thread concerning the Nintendo GameCube game \"Metroid Prime\". The original thread was called \"Gravity Suit and Ice Beam before Thardus\"; since then, the \"\"x\" before \"y\"\" notation has become common in the nomenclature of speedrunning. Thardus, a fictional creature in the \"Metroid\" series, was designed to be a mandatory boss before the Gravity Suit and Ice Beam could be obtained, hence the novelty of bypassing the boss while still obtaining the items. Since its initial discovery, sequence breaking has become an integral part of speedrunning and has been applied to many other games.\n\nAn example of sequence breaking as a result of a glitch can be found in the \"16 Star\" run of \"Super Mario 64\". In this game, Mario normally needs to collect at least 70 of the 120 power stars before he is allowed to challenge Bowser, the final boss, but a glitch makes it possible to access the final level with only 16 stars. With the right kind of movement, it is possible to pass through the boundary of a wall by pushing into it while holding onto MIPS, an NPC rabbit. Since then, similar tricks have been found to complete the game without collecting any stars.\n\nWhile some speedrun rules require that the skipping of such events be avoided, it is often desirable to make full use of such possibilities. Therefore, some websites, such as Speeddemosarchive, offer support for multiple speedrun categories. Each category specifies which glitches are permitted and what game objectives must be completed. For example, it is typically agreed that glitches arising from outside the game, such as improperly inserting the cartridge, are impermissible.\n\nAlthough most speedruns assume normal human play of a game, \"tool-assisted speedruns\" (abbreviated \"TAS\") allow authors to use outside tools to aid their playing. For example, utilizing the save state function of an emulator to go back in time and revise mistakes (known as \"re-recording\"), or using software to read variables directly from the game's memory, giving the player information not normally available to them. The result is that human limitations, such as skill and reflex, are no longer a barrier in the creation of a run; tool-assisted runs have (sometimes significantly) lower completion times than their unassisted equivalents.\n\nSpeedruns are categorized into various levels of completion, or how thoroughly a game is completed, which are as follows:\n\n\nIn addition, there can be game-specific categories that change how much of the game must be completed. These categories usually include completing or avoiding specific aspects of the game and/or not allowing certain glitches or game exploits to be used in the run. An example of this would be the medallions/stones/trials category in \"The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time\"; this category requires the runner to beat all major levels in the game and restricts some of the glitches that can be performed. In \"\", there is a \"Water%\" run, which constitutes collecting every DK Coin in the game; this requires the player to collect every Bear Coin to access the Lost World, but does not require a player to actually 100% the game and ignore the Banana Birds.\n\nHistorically, speedruns have been performed by members of online communities pertaining to video games in general. When the activity became popular enough to accede to subculture, the first sites dedicated to speedrunning started appearing—usually specializing in just one or a few games. Some of these sites have sustained activity for a long time, sometimes even up to today, providing coverage of its members' achievements and serving as a platform for related discussions.\n\nDecember 1993 saw the release of id Software's \"Doom\", which allowed players to record demo files of their playthrough. The feature was first picked up by Christina \"Strunoph\" Norman in January 1994 when she launched the \"LMP Hall of Fame\" website.\n\nThis site was, however, quickly followed up by the \"DOOM Honorific Titles\" (also known as the \"DHT\"), launched in May 1994 by Frank Stajano, which introduced the first serious competition between players. This site, designed around a notion of earning titles by successfully recording a particular type of demo on one of the predetermined maps in the \"IWADs\", would create the basis for all \"Doom\" demo sites that would follow. These so-called \"exams\" became very popular as the player had to earn each title by submitting a demo of the feat to one of the site's judges to justify his application. \"Doom II: Hell on Earth\" was released in October 1994, and the DHT conformed to the new additions as well as the new \"Doom\" version releases. At the height of its popularity, the DHT had many different categories and playing styles. For example, playing with only the in-game fists and pistol, while killing all monsters on a map, became known as \"Tyson\" mode, named after the heavyweight boxer and former champion Mike Tyson. \"Pacifist mode\" was playing without intentionally harming any monsters. Each category had \"easy\", \"medium\", and \"hard\" difficulty maps for players to get randomly chosen for. As an authentication method to prevent players from submitting demos made by other people, it was required that they performed a distinct \"dance\" during their demo (often at the very beginning). With such varied categories, the DHT was appealing to a diverse group of players. However, the DHT had trouble retaining a permanent Internet location. This, combined with the constantly changing rules and the diminished importance of most of the titles, caused public interest to wane as the years went by.\n\nIn November 1994, the definitive installment \"Doom\" speedrunning scene, in the form of the COMPET-N website, was launched. Its creator, Simon Widlake, intended the site to be a record scoreboard for a variety of \"Doom\"-related achievements, but unlike its predecessors, they were all based on the idea of fast completion, thus making it the first actual speedrunning site. Players were challenged to run through \"Doom\"'s levels as fast as humanly possible in order to attain a spot on the constantly updated COMPET-N scoreboards, leading to demo material gradually amounting to hundreds of hours of recorded gameplay.\n\nLike the DOOM Honorific Titles, this site experienced multiple location changes over time; it was hosted on the \"Simtel\" servers for a while, before Istvan Pataki took over as maintainer and moved the site to a now defunct FTP server of the Technical University of Budapest. From there on, since early 1998, it had been administered by Adam Hegyi, who was maintaining the site, but left around 2007 without notice. In 2012, COMPET-N player Zvonimir 'fx' Bužanić took over maintaining the site and re-created new database for WAD-s and PWAD-s. It is currently located at http://www.doom.com.hr/compet-n.\n\nAs of November 2007, COMPET-N contained a total amount of 6072 demos (on both official and custom maps), accounting for a total time of 462 hours, 8 minutes and 20 seconds. As of January 2012, COMPET-N contains a total amount of 9122 demos (on both official and custom maps), accounting for a total time of 749 hours, 41 minutes and 47 seconds.\n\nFollowing the success of the \"Doom\" speedrunning community, people first started recording demos of \"Quake\" playthroughs when it was released in June 1996 and sharing them with others on the demos/e directory in Simtel's \"Quake\" file hierarchy. There were two distinct kinds of demos: those in which the player killed all monsters and found all secrets on the map (called \"100% demos\") and those in which the player ignored these goals in order to finish the level as fast as possible (called \"runs\"). All levels were, at that time, recorded solely on the \"Nightmare\" difficulty level, the highest in the game.\n\nIn April 1997, Nolan \"Radix\" Pflug first started the \"Nightmare Speed Demos\" website to keep track of the fastest demos. In June of that same year, the first \"Quake done Quick\" project was finalized; \"Quake done Quick\", unlike the conventional record demos, featured a full playthrough of the game, carrying over one level's finishing statistics to the next. The project members ended up making a movie in which the entire game is finished on Nightmare difficulty in 0:19:49; it was a collection of the best runs that the members of the site had been made thus far, and at that time, there was no other run that came close. The run was \"recammed\", i.e reconstructed so that it could be also viewed from a third-person perspective, which gained it its machinima status. It received widespread attention from gaming magazines, being distributed as part of the free CDs that they came with. This popularized speedrunning for a much larger audience than before and attracted many newcomers. Not all of those newcomers agreed with the standard that runs should be made on the hardest possible difficulty level. Thus, in August 1997, \"Muad'Dib's Quake Page\" came to be, run by Gunnar \"Muad'Dib\" Andre Mo and specializing in \"Easy\" difficulty runs. One month after that, the \"Quake done Quick\" movie was superseded by a new movie called \"Quake done Quicker\" on September 14, 1997, which shortened the game's fastest playthrough to 0:16:35.\n\nIn April 1998, Pflug and Mo merged their pages, thus creating the \"Speed Demos Archive\", which, as of 2007, is still the dominant community for \"Quake\" speedrunning and also acts as repository for demos, maps, statistics, and software pertaining to the practice. Ever since its creation, a large variety of tricks have been discovered in \"Quake\"'s physics. Despite being released as early as 1996, \"Quake\" has steadily remained popular with its players, who subsequently released the \"Quake done Quick with a Vengeance\" movie on September 13, 2000, which featured a complete run through \"Quake\" in 0:12:23. Primarily tricks that had not been used in both its predecessors allowed for this improvement, as the run's manual states that it \"[makes] use of every known trick, including unrestricted bunny-hopping, to represent the state-of-the-art in Nightmare running\".\n\nAs of September 2014, Speed Demos Archive can be found at the web address http://speeddemosarchive.com/ and contains a total amount of 9535 demos (on both official and custom maps), accounting for a total time of over 250 hours. In December 2011, a new run was produced and called \"Quake done Quickest\". The improvements that were made resulted in a time of 0:11:29 for the entire game, an improvement of 54 seconds over \"Quake done Quick with a Vengeance\".\n\nReleased in August 1986, \"Metroid\" was one of the earliest games to introduce special rewards for fast completion times. As is the case for the rest of the games in the series, highly nonlinear gameplay makes it possible for runners to search extensively for different routes towards the end of the game. In particular, the ability to perform sequence breaking has been researched thoroughly, leading to the discovery of ways to complete the games while obtaining only a small percentage of items. Prior to the inception of Metroid speedrunning, there were special websites which documented these so-called \"low-percentage\" completion possibilities.\n\nThe first game to be exceedingly popular with the speedrunning audience was \"Super Metroid\", released in 1994, which proved to lend itself to fast completion purposes very well. It featured a physics system that allowed for a wide array of skills for mobility, like \"wall jumping\" or the \"Shinespark\", allowing players to skip over large areas of the game, or play through the game in different manners based on how well they can perform these tricks in contextual situations. Additionally, it had the same nonlinear gameplay as its predecessors. Due to the way the game was laid out, several different run types or tiers that incorporate different completion percentages have been performed, including any%, 100%, low%, and reverse boss order (RBO), in which the player beats the game's bosses in the opposite order they were meant to be played via sequence breaking.\n\nAs the Internet became more available to the general public, groups of players started collaborating on message boards to discuss these tricks with one another in what became a community based on playing the games speedily.\n\nThe first \"Metroid\" community that was created for the purpose of fast completion was \"Metroid Prime Discoveries\", created and led by Jean-Sebastien \"Zell\" Dubois. Rather than being a site that focused on speedrunning, it was dedicated to documenting the possibilities of sequence breaking in the game \"Metroid Prime\". When the interest arose to begin the documentation of other games in the series, however, the new site \"Metroid 2002\" was created by Nathan \"nate\" Jahnke in August 2003. Initially, the only incentive was to document the two \"Metroid\" games released in 2002—\"Metroid Prime\" and \"Metroid Fusion\"—but this changed when Nathan was asked to take all content of \"Metroid Online\"—another site that had been developed at that time and contained sequence breaking documentation, a message board, and a 1% \"Metroid Fusion\" run—and relaunch Metroid 2002 as \"the one resource for \"Metroid Prime\" sequence breaking info.\" This relaunch happened less than two weeks after the proposition and came to be in November. Ever since, it has been the central repository for everything related to speedrunning the \"Metroid\" series.\n\nIt was also in November 2003 that \"Metroid\" speedrunner Nolan Pflug released his 100% run of \"Metroid Prime\", in which he finished the entire game in 1 hour, 37 minutes. Since it was featured in the games section of Slashdot, it gained widespread attention. Publications in numerous different languages ran stories on the run, and topics about the run were made on gaming message boards around the world. The first segment of his run was being downloaded over five thousand times a day at the peak of its popularity. The Metroid 2002 IRC channel was flooded with people who had heard about the run and wanted to know more about it, fast dwarfing the original population, and its message board saw its member count double in size the month following the run's release. As a result of the popularity of this run, it was decided that in order to best serve the growing bandwidth consumption, Metroid 2002 would have to merge its array of videos with Speed Demos Archive, which was at that time being provided nearly limitless server capacity for their runs on the Internet Archive.\n\nAs of September 2018, the best completion time for the North American version of \"Metroid Prime\" is 51 minutes by \"JustinDM.\" He has also reduced the 100% time to 1 hour 10 minutes, obsoleting \"Bartendorsparky\"'s and \"MPZoid\"'s runs.\n\nIt was in early 1999 that the term \"tool-assisted speedrun\" was first coined, during the early days of \"Doom\" speedrunning, although they were also called \"built demos\", in accordance with the \"demo\" terminology. Players first started recording these special demos when Andy \"Aurican\" Kempling released a modified version of the \"Doom\" source code that made it possible to record demos in slow motion and in several sessions. A couple of months afterwards, in June 1999, the first site made for the purpose of sharing these demos, aptly called \"Tools-Assisted Speedruns\", was opened by Esko Koskimaa, Peo Sjoblom, and Yonatan Donner.\n\nLike other such communities, the maintainers of the site stressed that their demos were for entertainment purposes rather than skill competitions, although the attempt to have the fastest time possible with tools itself became a competition as well. The site became a success, usually updating several times a week with demos recorded by its maintainers and submitted by its readers. The site was active until August 10, 2001, at which point a news message was posted to state that the site would cease its regular updates and act as archive from then on. The popularity of \"Doom\" tool-assisted speedrunning has dwindled since then.\n\nIn mid-2003, an anonymous speedrunner using the nickname released a video in which he played through \"Super Mario Bros. 3\" with an unprecedented level of skill; he beat the entire game in just over 11 minutes without making a single mistake and managed to accumulate 99 1-ups throughout levels during which he had to wait. In addition, he put himself in dangerous situations over and over, only to escape them without sustaining any damage. Although it was widely believed that the video was made by an extremely skilled player, it was actually the first tool-assisted speedrun made with a special emulator to generate widespread interest. When Morimoto detailed the making of the run on his website, many felt deceived and turned to criticizing the video's \"illegitimacy\" instead. The knowledge that the video was constructed through tedious and careful selective replaying also raised some questions about the authenticity of video game replays; after all, if it is practically impossible to tell the videos of both kinds apart, one cannot possibly know whether a run was made with or without the use of a special emulator. It was even feared that this fact would cause the downfall of competitive speedrunning. Neither the Speed Demos Archive nor Metroid 2002 have ever published runs that were known to be made with a special emulator. Nolan Pflug, the former webmaster of Speed Demos Archive, has been quoted as saying, \"My basic thought is 'don't like them, haven't made them, don't watch them,'\" when asked for his opinion on the subject.\n\nThus, in late 2003, the first public website that served tool-assisted speedrun videos from multiple authors, TASVideos (then known as NESVideos), was created. It was originally created by Joel \"Bisqwit\" Yliluoma for the purpose of showcasing, sharing, and discussing speedruns made with special emulators—at first, the site only held videos of Nintendo Entertainment System games, in part due to the fact that the only emulator suitable for this specialist purpose was, at that time, the Famtasia NES emulator. Besides just serving the speedrun recordings in the emulator's original format (which, much like \"Doom\" and \"Quake\" demos, required both the emulator and the game in order to be played back), the site also held AVI files, which were made available using the BitTorrent protocol. As of March 2016, it holds over 3,000 complete speedruns.\n\nIn 2014, a new dedicated website was opened up for speedrunners called speedrun.com. Since the website opened, more people from the speedrunning community added game pages to popular video games and has a dedicated leaderboards for each game. The leaderboards show who has what position and who holds the World Record for the game and category. The website also shows who is streaming on what game and has a dedicated forum and a guides section for each game. As of September 2018, the site has over 160,000 registered users and over 670,000 submitted runs. The founder of this website is Pac.\n\nA speedrun marathon is a webstream of multiple games being speedrun in succession. This often takes the form of a fan convention where runners get together to speedrun video games to raise money for charity, but may also be a purely online event. The most popular speedrun marathons are the biannual Games Done Quick marathon in the United States. Before the marathons, discussions take place on a forum, and runners submit their game choices. An online schedule is created that will show who is speedrunning, when they are speedrunning, and what game they are speedrunning. Their runs are streamed live at Twitch.tv, and runners often provide commentary throughout the run to give viewers a better understanding of what is going on. Runners who are speedrunning often practice their game in a practice room at the event before their scheduled run as a warm up, or they practice at home beforehand. Speedrun marathons such as the Awesome Games Done Quick 2017 marathon have raised $2,222,934.52 for the Prevent Cancer Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "548075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548075", "title": "Star lifting", "text": "Star lifting\n\nStar lifting is any of several hypothetical processes by which a sufficiently advanced civilization (specifically, one of Kardashev-II or higher) could remove a substantial portion of a star's matter which can then be re-purposed, while possibly optimizing the star's energy output and lifespan at the same time. The term appears to have been coined by David Criswell.\n\nStars already lose a small flow of mass via solar wind, coronal mass ejections, and other natural processes. Over the course of a star's life on the main sequence this loss is usually negligible compared to the star's total mass; only at the end of a star's life when it becomes a red giant or a supernova is a large amount of material ejected. The star lifting techniques that have been proposed would operate by increasing this natural plasma flow and manipulating it with magnetic fields.\n\nStars have deep gravity wells, so the energy required for such operations is large. For example, lifting solar material from the surface of the Sun to infinity requires 2.1 × 10 J/kg. This energy could be supplied by the star itself, collected by a Dyson sphere; using 10% of the Sun's total power output would allow 5.9 × 10 kilograms of matter to be lifted per year (0.0000003% of the Sun's total mass), or 8% of the mass of Earth's moon.\n\nThe simplest system for star lifting would increase the rate of solar wind outflow by directly heating small regions of the star's atmosphere, using any of a number of different means to deliver energy such as microwave beams, lasers, or particle beams – whatever proved to be most efficient for the engineers of the system. This would produce a large and sustained eruption similar to a solar flare at the target location, feeding the solar wind.\n\nThe resulting outflow would be collected by using a ring current around the star's equator to generate a powerful toroidal magnetic field with its dipoles over the star's rotational poles. This would deflect the star's solar wind into a pair of jets aligned along its rotational axis passing through a pair of magnetic rocket nozzles. The magnetic nozzles would convert some of the plasma's thermal energy into outward velocity, helping cool the outflow. The ring current required to generate this magnetic field would be generated by a ring of particle accelerator space stations in close orbit around the star's equator. These accelerators would be physically separate from each other but would exchange two counterdirected beams of oppositely charged ions with their neighbor on each side, forming a complete circuit around the star.\n\nCriswell proposed a modification to the polar jet system in which the magnetic field could be used to increase solar wind outflow directly, without requiring additional heating of the star's surface. He dubbed it the \"Huff-n-Puff\" method, inspired from the Big Bad Wolf's threats in the fairy tale of \"Three Little Pigs\".\n\nIn this system the ring of particle accelerators would not be in orbit, instead depending on the outward force of the magnetic field itself for support against the star's gravity. To inject energy into the star's atmosphere the ring current would first be temporarily shut down, allowing the particle accelerator stations to begin falling freely toward the star's surface. Once the stations had developed sufficient inward velocity the ring current would be reactivated and the resulting magnetic field would be used to reverse the stations' fall. This would \"squeeze\" the star, propelling stellar atmosphere through the polar magnetic nozzles. The ring current would be shut down again before the ring stations achieved enough outward velocity to throw them too far away from the star, and the star's gravity would be allowed to pull them back inward to repeat the cycle.\n\nA single set of ring stations would result in a very intermittent flow. It is possible to smooth this flow out by using multiple sets of ring stations, with each set operating in a different stage of the Huff-n-Puff cycle at any given moment so that there is always one ring \"squeezing\". This would also smooth out the power requirements of the system over time.\n\nAn alternative to the Huff-n-Puff method for using the toroidal magnetic field to increase solar wind outflow involves placing the ring stations in a polar orbit rather than an equatorial one. The two magnetic nozzles would then be located on the star's equator. To increase the rate of outflow through these two equatorial jets, the ring system would be rotated around the star at a rate significantly faster than the star's natural rotation. This would cause the stellar atmosphere swept up by the magnetic field to be flung outward.\n\nThis method suffers from a number of significant complications compared to the others. Rotating the ring in this manner would require the ring stations to use powerful rocket thrust, requiring both large rocket systems and a large amount of reaction mass. This reaction mass can be \"recycled\" by directing the rockets' exhausts so that it impacts the star's surface, but harvesting fresh reaction mass from the star's outflow and delivering it to the ring stations in sufficient quantity adds still more complexity to the system. Finally, the resulting jets would spiral outward from the star's equator rather than emerging straight from the poles; this could complicate harvesting it, as well as the arrangement of the Dyson sphere powering the system.\n\nThe material lifted from a star will emerge in the form of plasma jets hundreds or thousands of astronomical units long, primarily composed of hydrogen and helium and highly diffuse by current engineering standards. The details of extracting useful materials from this stream and storing the vast quantities that would result have not been extensively explored. One possible approach is to purify useful elements from the jets using extremely large-scale mass spectrometry, cool them by laser cooling, and condense them on particles of dust for collection. Small artificial gas giant planets could be constructed from excess hydrogen and helium to store it for future use.\n\nThe lifespan of a star is determined by the size of its supply of nuclear \"fuel\" and the rate at which it uses up that fuel in fusion reactions in its core. Larger stars have a larger supply of fuel, but the increased core pressure resulting from that additional mass increases the reaction rate even more; large stars have a significantly shorter lifespan than small ones. Current theories of stellar dynamics also suggest that there is very little mixing between the bulk of a star's atmosphere and the material of its core, where fusion takes place, so most of a large star's fuel will never be used naturally.\n\nAs a star's mass is reduced by star lifting its rate of nuclear fusion will decrease, reducing the amount of energy available to the star lifting process but also reducing the gravity that needs to be overcome. Theoretically, it would be possible to remove an arbitrarily large portion of a star's total mass given sufficient time. In this manner a civilization could control the rate at which its star uses fuel, optimizing the star's power output and lifespan to its needs. The hydrogen and helium extracted in the process could also be used as fusion reactor fuel. Alternatively, the material could be assembled into additional smaller stars, to improve the efficiency of its use. Theoretically all the energy of the matter lifted from a star could be harvested if it is made into small black holes, via the mechanism of Hawking Radiation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627206", "title": "Transhuman Space", "text": "Transhuman Space\n\nTranshuman Space (THS) is a role-playing game published by Steve Jackson Games as parts of the \"Powered by \"GURPS\"\" (\"Generic Universal Role-Playing System\") line. Set in the year 2100, humanity has begun to colonize the Solar System. The pursuit of transhumanism is now in full swing, as more and more people struggle to reach a fully posthuman state.\n\n\"Transhuman Space\" was one of the first role-playing games to tackle postcyberpunk and transhumanist themes. In 2002, the \"Transhuman Space\" adventure \"Orbital Decay\" received an Origins Award nomination for Best Role-Playing Game Adventure. \"Transhuman Space\" won the 2003 Grog d'Or Award for \"Best Role-playing Game, Game Line or RPG Setting\".\n\nThe game assumes that no cataclysm — natural or human-induced — swept Earth in the 21st century. Instead, constant developments in information technology, genetic engineering, nanotechnology and nuclear physics generally improved condition of the average human life. Plagues of the 20th century (like cancer or AIDS) have been suppressed, the ozone layer is being restored and Earth's ecosystems are recovering (although thermal emission by fusion power plants poses an environmental threat—albeit a much lesser one than previous sources of energy). Thanks to modern medicine humans live biblical timespans surrounded by various artificially intelligent helper applications and robots (cybershells), sensory experience broadcasts (future TV) and cyberspace telepresence. Thanks to cheap and clean fusion energy humanity has power to fuel all these wonders, restore and transform its home planet and finally settle on other heavenly bodies.\n\nHuman genetic engineering has advanced to the point that anyone—single individuals, same-sex couples, groups of three or more—can reproduce. The embryos can be allowed to be developed naturally, or they can undergo three levels of tinkering: \n1. \"Genefixing\", which corrects defects; \n2. \"Upgrades\", which boost natural abilities (Ishtar Upgrades are slightly more attractive than usual, Metanoia Upgrades are more intelligent, etc.); and... \n3. Full transition to \"parahuman\" status (Nyx Parahumans only need a few hours of sleep per week, Aquamorphs can live underwater, etc.) Another type of human genetic engineering, far more controversial, is the creation of bioroids, fully sentient slave races.\n\nPeople can \"upload\" by recording the contents of their brains on computer disks. The individual then becomes a \"ghost\", an infomorph very easily confused with \"sapient artificial intelligence\". However, this technology has several problems as the solely available \"brainpeeling\" technique is fatal to the original biological lifeform being simulated, has a significant failure rate and the philosophical questions regarding personal identity remain equivocal. Any infomorph, regardless of its origin, can be plugged into a \"cybershell\", or a biological body, or \"bioshell\". Or, the individual can illegally make multiple \"xoxes\", or copies of themselves, and scatter them throughout the system, exponentially increasing the odds that at least one of them will live for centuries more, if not forever.\n\nThis is also a time of space colonization. First, humanity (specifically China, followed by the United States and others) colonized Mars in a fashion resembling that outlined in the Mars Direct project. The Moon, Lagrangian points, inner planets and asteroids soon followed. In the late 21st century even some of Saturn's moons have been settled as a base for that planet's Helium-3 scooping operations.\nThis is no utopia, however: several problems have arisen from these otherwise beneficial developments. The generation gap has become a chasm as lifespans increase. No longer do the elite fear death, and no longer can the young hope to replace them. While it seemed that outworld colonies would offer accommodation and work for those young ones, they are being replaced by genetically tailored bioroids and AI-powered cybershells. The concept of \"humanity\" is no longer clear in a world where even some animals speak of their rights and the dead haunt both cyberspace and reality (in form of infomorph-controlled bioshells or cybershells).\n\nAnd the wonders of high science are not universally shared — some countries merely struggle with informatization while others suffer from nanoplagues, defective drugs, implants and software tested on their populace. In some poor countries high-tech tyrants oppress their backward people. And in outer space all sort of modern crime thrives, barely suppressed by military forces.\n\nAfter the initial set of \"GURPS\" books which included \"GURPS Lite\" in them, later publications such as \"Transhuman Space\" by David Pulver were labelled \"Powered by \"GURPS\" without including \"GURPS\"\" in the book title, primarily to make it easier for fans to find the books at mass-market retailers. \"Transhuman Space\" was well supported by an extensive game line, and was the first major original background produced by Steve Jackson Games in 15 years. The books inclusion of posthuman characters began to show the limits of the current \"GURPS\" system, which is something that Pulver would address soon thereafter.\n\nWhile Steve Jackson Games has not updated the core book (\"GURPS Transhuman Space\") to 4th edition it has produced 4th edition supplements for the setting: Transhuman Space: Bioroid Bazaar, Transhuman Space: Martial Arts 2100, Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 2-5, Transhuman Space: Shell-Tech, GURPS Spaceships 8: Transhuman Spacecraft, Transhuman Space: Transhuman Mysteries, Transhuman Space: Changing Times, and Transhuman Space: Wings of the Rising Sun.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58543833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58543833", "title": "Vladimir Tushinsky", "text": "Vladimir Tushinsky\n\nVladimir Petrovich Tushinsky (born September 14, 1976 in RSFSR - August 5, 2016 in Khabarovsk, Russia) was a Russian serial killer, rapist and pedophile. Between September 2010 and February 2014, he killed five girls aged between 11 and 22 in the Kamchatka Krai. In the media, he received the nickname \"Kamchatka Chikatilo\".\nHe was detained on February 17, 2014 and charged with murder, as well as raping his underage stepdaughter. On February 19, 2016, the Kamchatka Regional Court sentenced him to life imprisonment, with the Supreme Court of Russia upholding the verdict without change. On August 5, 2016 while he was being transferred to the colony on Ognenny Ostrov, Tushinsky suddenly died.\n\nTushinsky was born on September 14, 1976.\n\nIn 1997, he was convicted of theft and beatings, and according to some media reports, was nicknamed \"Bald\" in the colony. After his release, he married, and along with his wife and her daughter from the first marriage, moved to the Pionersky settlement in the Yelizovsky District; a son was born there soon after. In the autumn of 2009, he got a job as a fuel supply engineer in boiler room No. 3 of JSC Kamchatskenegro in the Mokhovaya micro-district of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky.\n\nAccording to the investigators, in 2005, Tushinsky raped his 11-year-old stepdaughter, Julia, and then continued to coerce her into cohabitation for four years. The girl did not dare for a long time to tell anybody what happened. In 2009, when she turned 16, she moved to the mainland, where her parents lived.\n\nAfter the stepdaughter left Tushinsky, investigators believe that because of the inability to satisfy his \"pathological sexual desire\", a hatred for women arose. The man began to drive around Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and his neighborhood in his Toyota 4Runner in search of lonely girls resembling his stepdaughter, and then offered to drive them home, choking or killing them with a knife afterwards.\n\nThe first victim was 22-year-old Ulyana Nikiforova, who worked as a saleswoman in one of the shopping centers of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky; she was killed on September 12, 2010. The offender, who used a knife, inflicted a lot of blows to the face, head and body. The body was found in the tall grass next to the road connecting Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and Yelizovo.\n\nThe next murder Tushinsky committed a month later. In the evening of October 10, 15-year-old Natalya Moiseyeva stood a \"BAM\" shop, waiting for the bus, where she was seen by the criminal. Shortly before the disappearance, the schoolgirl phoned her parents and said that she could not go home, because there was no bus; after 20 minutes her phone was out of range. The remains of the girl were found two years later by a woman who collected mushrooms in the Mokhovaya micro-district.\n\nOn November 18, 2010, the criminal killed 11-year-old Olga Besprozvannaya, a high school student in Yelizovo, and then buried her corpse. Her parents told the police about her disappearance after she did not return to the village of Dvurechye after the end of the school day. For several weeks policemen and volunteers were looking for her, but the could only find her mobile phone, broken into pieces.\n\nOn January 9, 2011, Tushinsky killed 16-year-old Christina Orlova. The search operation again did not give any results, because, as in the Besprozvannaya case, the criminal carefully buried the body in a secret place.\n\nThe last murder Tushinsky committed on February 16, 2014 in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. He offered to give a ride to 20-year-old Irina Khodos, but she refused. \"I just stopped and in a friendly way offered to give her a lift, and she became rude. She took out her phone, and threatened to call the police. I got scared, got in the car, but then I thought that she could blame me\", the murderer later told. He inflicted more than 20 knife wounds on the girl, after which she died, and left the body at the \"Stepnaya\" bus stop, where it was later discovered.\n\nAfter the murder of Irina Khodos, the investigators contacted the locals through the media for help, counting on the fact that among them there might have been witnesses of the crime. After a while a man came to the regional department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, passing a stop with his car when, according him, the murder was committed. The DVR camera captured the Toyota 4Runner car parked near the murder site; the registration numbers were not visible, however, the inscription \"PICK UP\" on the cockpit was in frame. Law enforcement agencies found out that the car belonged to Tushinsky, and on February 17, he was arrested.\n\nIn trunk of Tushinsky's car an axe, taser, air gun, as well as female tights and an artificial vagina were found. After examining the car, traces of blood and hair from Khodos were found. Under the pressure of evidence, the killer began to give confessions: he not only confessed to the last murder, but also to his previous crimes, and subsequently pointed out the burial sites of Besprozvannaya and Orlova's bodies. During the search of Tushinsky's apartment, video records were found on his computer, on which he committed violent acts against his minor stepdaughter.\n\nSoon the court gave Tushinsky a measure of restraint in the form of imprisonment, thus satisfying the petition of the investigation. A criminal case was initiated against him on the basis of crimes such as violent acts of a sexual nature, rape and murder of the Criminal Code of Russia.\n\nIn early September 2015, Tushinsky's case along with the indictment was referred to the court for examination. Previously, experts conducted more than 60 examinations, including complex forensic psycho-sexual-psychiatric ones, which revealed that the man showed signs of pedophilia, but was declared sane. At the same time, the investigators failed to find evidence that the murderer's victims had been sexually assaulted. The trial itself began on October 7, 2015 in the Kamchatka Regional Court.\n\nDuring the judicial investigation, more than 70 volumes of the criminal case were examined. On January 27, 2016, the judicial debate began. The state prosecutor asked the court to appoint a final sentence in the form of life imprisonment to the defendant. Family members of the victims, who also spoke in the debate, supported the position of the prosecution. Tushinsky's lawyer asked for a softer punishment towards his client.\n\nAfter the end of the debate, the court decided to appoint the last word of the defendant on February 9, but on the appointed day Tushinsky was not ready, as a result of which the meeting was postponed and held on February 11 instead. In his last words, he pled guilty to all counts and at the same time drew the court's attention to the contradictions in the victims' testimonies, witnesses, and the inadmissibility of a number of evidence materials in the case. Among other things, Tushinsky asked for forgiveness from the victims' families and said that he would \"accept any punishment\".\n\nOn February 19, 2016, the final hearing for the case took place. Tushinsky was found guilty of all counts and sentenced to life imprisonment, and to serve his sentence in a special regime colony. The court also granted civil claims to relatives of the victims for the amount of 12 million rubles, and also obliged the defendant to pay 500,000 rubles to his stepdaughter. The verdict was read out by the judge of the Kamchatka Regional Court, Dmitry Urban.\n\nTushinsky's defense team challenged the verdict. In July 2016, the Board of the Supreme Court inspected  a video depicting the convict and three of the victims, and ultimately upheld the verdict without change.\n\nAfter the enforcement of the verdict, Tushinsky was sentenced to serve his sentence in the special regime colony on Ognenny Ostrov. From Kamchatka, he was taken to a prison in Khabarovsk, where he was placed in solitary confinement under enhanced surveillance, which, in particular, had round-the-clock surveillance.\n\nOn August 5, 2016, Tushinsky died suddenly. According to official information, the cause of death was \"sudden cardiac arrest without signs of violent death\": according to the press service of the Federal Penitentiary Service of Russia in the Khabarovsk Oblast, at 17:50 the junior inspector received information that offender was ill. The medical officer, who examined him in the cell, called an ambulance brigade. At 18:58, the prisoner was taken to the intensive care unit of the Regional Clinical Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 20:05.\n\n"}
{"id": "57297576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57297576", "title": "War of annihilation", "text": "War of annihilation\n\nA war of annihilation () is a type of warfare in which the goal is the complete annihilation of a state, a people or an ethnic minority through genocide or through the destruction of their livelihood. The goal can be outward-directed or inward, against elements of one's own population. The goal is not like other types of warfare, the recognition of limited political goals, such as recognition of a legal status (such as in a war of independence), control of disputed territory (as in war of aggression or defensive war), or the \ntotal military defeat (debellatio) of an enemy state.\nWar of annihilation is defined as a radicalized form of warfare in which \"all psycho-physical limits\" are abolished.\n\nThe Hamburg social scientist Jan Philipp Reemtsma sees a war, \"which is led, in the worst case, to destroy or even decimate a population\", as the heart of the war of annihilation.\nThe state organization of the enemy will be smashed. Another characteristic of a war of annihilation is its ideological character and the rejection of negotiations with the enemy, as the historian Andreas Hillgruber Andreas Hillgruber has shown in the example of the 1941 Operation Barbarossa against Jewish Bolshevism. The legitimacy and trustworthiness of the opponent is negated, demoted to status of a total enemy, with whom there can be no understanding, but rather devotes the totality of one's own \"Volk, Krieg und Politik [als] Triumph der Idee des Vernichtungskrieges\" (people, war and politics [to the] triumph of the idea of the war of annihilation).\n\nThe term \"war of extermination\" was used in many American wars with Amerindians, most notably California governor Peter Burnett's prediction of one during the California Genocide:\n\nSocial Democratic Party of Germany political communications had circulated the term \"Vernichtungskrieg\" in order to criticize the action against the insurgents during the Herero Wars.\n\nIn January 1904 the Herero and Namaqua genocide began in the German colony German South West Africa. With a total of about 15,000 men under Lieutenant General Lothar von Trotha, this uprising was prostrated until August 1904. Most of the Herero fled to the almost waterless Omaheke, an offshoot of the Kalahari Desert. From Trotha had them locked down and the refugees chased away from the few water spots there, so that thousands of Herero along with their families and cattle herds thirst. The hunted in the desert, let Trotha in the so-called \"Vernichtungsbefehl\", \"Annihilation Command\":\n\nTrotha's warfare aimed at the complete annihilation of the Herero (\"I believe that the nation must be destroyed as such\") and was supported in particular by Schlieffen and Kaiser Wilhelm II. His approach is therefore considered to be the first genocide of the twentieth century. Trotha's action sparked outrage in Germany and abroad; at the instigation of chancellor Bernhard von Bülow, the Emperor lifted the order of annihilation two months after the events in the Omaheke. Trotha's policy remained largely unchanged until its revocation in November 1905.\n\nThe war of annihilation was a further development of the concept of Total War, as 1935 the former imperial General Quartermaster Erich Ludendorff had designed. Thereafter, in a coming war, victory must be given unlimited priority over all other societal concerns: all resources would have to be harnessed, the will of the nation had to be made available before the outbreak of the hostilities are unified by propaganda and dictatorship violence, all available weapons would have to be used, and no consideration could be taken of International law. Even in its objectives, total war is unlimited, as the experience of First World War teaching:\n\nIn this conceptual delimitation of the war, Ludendorff was able to draw from the German military-theoretical discourse, which had formed in the confrontation with the People's War, the \"Guerre à outrance\", which the newly created Third French Republic in the fall and winter of 1870 against the Prussian-German invaders of the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nLudendorff also dealt with Carl von Clausewitz and his 1832 posthumously published work \"On War\", in which he distinguished between 'absolute' and 'limited' wars. But even for Clausewitz absolute war was subject to restrictions, such as the distinction between combatants and non-combatants, between military and civil or between public and private. Ludendorff claimed now that in total war it is no longer a \"petty political purpose\", not even \"big [...] national interests\", but the sheer \"Lebenserhaltung\" (life-support) of the nation, its identity. This existential threat also justifies the annihilation of the enemy, at least moral, if not physical. Ludendorffs efforts to radicalize the war (for which he was responsible from 1916) met with social, political and military barriers. In the year 1935, his advice was then, as the historian Robert Foley writes, \"on fertile ground\"; the time seemed ripe for an even more radical delimitation of the war by the National Socialists.\n\nThe best known example of a \"Vernichtungskrieg\" is the German-Soviet War, which began on June 22, 1941 with the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The Berlin historian Ernst Nolte called this 1963 in a much-quoted formulation as the \"most egregious \"Versklavungs- und Vernichtungskrieg\" [war of enslavement and annihilation] known to modern history\" and distinguished it from a \"normal war\", as the Nazi regime conducted against France.\n\nIn his 1965 habilitation thesis \"Hitlers Strategie\" Andreas Hillgruber worked out the motifs of the Nazi state based on racial ideological basis for the war against the Soviet Union:\n\nLater, Hillgruber explicitly described the character of the Eastern Front as \"intended racial-ideological war of annihilation\". Operation Barbarossa has also found its way into the historical-political teaching of general education schools as a historical example of an extermination war.\n\nThe concept of the war of annihilation was intensely discussed in the 1990s with reference to the \"Wehrmachtsausstellung\" of the Hamburg Institute for Social Research, which carried the word \"Vernichtungskrieg\" in the title. That Operation Barbarossa would be a war of annihilation, Adolf Hitler had pronounced openly on March 30, 1941 before the generals of the Wehrmacht:\n\nThe orientation of Operation Barbarossa as a prior planned war of annihilation proves the commands prepared according to the general guidelines cited by Hitler on 30 March 1941 before the start of the campaign, such as the Barbarossa Decree of 13 May 1941, the Guidelines for the conduct of the troops in Russia of 19 May 1941 and the Commissar Order of 6 June 1941.\n\nThe German guidelines for agricultural policy in the Soviet territories to be conquered are one of the most extreme examples of a robbery and annihilation strategy. In a meeting of the secretaries of State on May 2, 1941, the Hunger Plan prepared:\n\nThe German historian Jochen Böhler regarded the Invasion of Poland as \"prelude to the \"Vernichtungskrieg\"\" against the Soviet Union 1941.\n\nIn journalism and research, many other conflicts are also known as \"Vernichtungskrieg\".\n\nIn 1876, the German writer and historian Felix Dahn used the term for the first time in the modern sense: in his novel \"A struggle for Rome\" he let the Byzantine warlord Narses aim his campaign against Goths to Ethnic group in Italy completely utterly, i.e. lead a \"war of annihilation against their entire folklore\". \n\nAlso for the Third Punic War 149 – 146 BC, the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest or the Indian Wars of the North American settlers Find evidence that they call war of annihilation.\n\nThe ethnologist Otto Stoll wrote 1888 of a war of annihilation of the Spanish Conquistadores against the indigenous population.\n\nThe former employee of the German Military History Research Office (Germany) Joachim Hoffmann described in his book ' ' Stalin's Annihilation War ' ' (1995) the Soviet warfare against Nazi Germany as \"War of Annihilation\". He cites as the motto a speech Josef Stalin s of 6 November 1941, in which this stated:\n\nOther academics do not follow Hoffmann's interpretation of the speech, but refer to Stalin's further statements in the following months that an annihilation of Germany is by no means his goal of war. Hoffmann's work as a whole was highly critically reviewed by a majority.\n\nThere is talk of an \"unbridled War of Annihilation\" (Norbert Blüm), or its English counterpart, \"War of Extermination\", when Israel's approach is described in Middle East conflict from various sides. The \"Nazi comparison\" implied in this wording is an indication of secondary antisemitism.\n\nIn a publication of the Human Rights Centre of the University of Potsdam from the year 1998, the action of Guatemalan military in Civil War is called the \"relentless war of annihilation against one's own people.\"\n\n"}
