{"id": "2799568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2799568", "title": "1260s in architecture", "text": "1260s in architecture\n\n"}
{"id": "10866110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10866110", "title": "1564 in music", "text": "1564 in music\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33111501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33111501", "title": "Afghan art", "text": "Afghan art\n\nAfghan art has spanned many centuries. One of the most significant periods is the Gandharan art made between the 1st and 7th centuries developing out of Greco-Buddhist art. With the arrival of Islam, modern Afghanistan was for long periods part of Persian states, and its art was often an important part of Persian art and Islamic art in general. \n\nSince the 1900s, the nation began to use Western techniques in art. Afghanistan's art in many media was originally almost entirely done by men, although women were greatly involved in other media, but recently women are entering the arts programs at Kabul University. Art is largely centered at the National Museum of Afghanistan, the National Gallery of Afghanistan and the National Archives of Afghanistan in Kabul. There are a number of art schools in the country. The Center for Contemporary Arts Afghanistan (CCAA) in Kabul provides young people an opportunity to learn contemporary painting.\n\nA collection of over 20,600 gold ornaments, some of them dating back to the Bronze Age, was discovered in Afghanistan in the late 1970s. Known as the Bactrian Hoard, these coins, necklaces and other pieces of jewelry were found in burial mounts in Sheberghan in Jowzjan Province. They have been displayed in museums in the US and Europe. \n\nGreco-Buddhist art was prevalent in Afghanistan from the 4th Century BCE to around the 7th Century CE due to the Islamic Conquest. Many of these art forms have been found in the archaeological site of Hadda, Afghanistan. The 6th-century Buddhas of Bamiyan are a well-known example of Gandhara art from this period. They were destroyed by the Taliban in 2001. \n\nAfter the Islamic conquest of Afghanistan, Afghan art changed dramatically from previous Greco-Buddhist works, due to the adoption of Islam. Afghan local materials such as lapis lazuli were adapted for use in Islamic Art. Mosques built in Afghanistan and in the Arab world are built with elaborate tiling styles. Many of these styles were influenced from Chinese ceramics Afghanistan served as a conduit for introduction to these Chinese ceramic styles and techniques due to its strategic location on the Silk Road.\n\nBuz-baz is a form of musical puppetry found in Afghanistan. The puppeteer manipulates a markhor marionette while simultaneously playing a dambura.\n\nAfghanistan fine art was protected during the Taliban times by art masters at the Senai Art School. The professors often hid \"un-Islamic\" paintings from the Taliban when they would visit and inspect. Other artists used water color over oil paintings to conceal faces and images not approved by the Taliban. Since 2002, the Afghan fine art master painters have been able to conduct many more exhibitions within Central Asia and Europe. Their oil and water color paintings are often found in the realism style, as that is what most Afghans prefer. One of the most infamous artists of that time was Sackin Nuqud. \n\nSince the fall of the Taliban in 2001, contemporary art has seen a resurgence in Afghanistan. Beginning in 2009, international funding for the arts has flowed into Afghanistan from the United States and Europe. In 2012, Kabul-based artist Aman Mojadidi curated a 2012 Documenta exhibit in Kabul which showcased 12 contemporary Afghan artists whose work includes digital photography, textiles, abstract painting, filmmaking and mixed media.\n"}
{"id": "31977957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31977957", "title": "Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation", "text": "Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation\n\nThe Allegory of Isabella d'Este's Coronation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Lorenzo Costa the Elder, dating to about 1505-1506. It is displayed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France.\n\nThe painting was the fourth commissioned by Isabella d'Este for her \"studiolo\", after two canvasses by Andrea Mantegna (\"Parnassus\" and the \"Triumph of the Virtues\", respectively from 1497 and 1499-1502) and Perugino's \"Combat of Love and Chastity\" (1503). \n\nThe subject was provided by the court poet Paride of Ceresara and was initially assigned to Mantegna. However, after the latter's death in 1506, he was replaced by Lorenzo Costa, who deleted all the work made by his predecessor. Isabella liked the painting, and this granted Costa the position as the new court painter of the Gonzaga of Mantua.\n\nDuke Charles I of Nevers gifted this and the other paintings in the \"studiolo\" to Cardinal Richelieu, and the \"Allegory\" thus went to Paris. After belonging to several collections, it became part of the collections of the Louvre Museum.\n\nThe most accepted interpretation of the painting is an exaltation of Isabella d'Este, her rule and her role as patron of the arts, which generates harmony. She would be the figure in the center, crowned with laurel by Anteros, who is held by his mother, Venus: the two mythological figures would symbolize the heavenly and virtuous love, compared to the earthly and carnal one.\n\nThe scene would be in the garden of Harmony, where it is possible to freely practice Music, Arts and Poetry, which are referred to by the characters surrounding the coronation. In the foreground, behind the garden's boundaries, are Diana, symbol of chastity, and Cadmus (on the left), protectors of the arts such as Mercury, identified by the scene of battle behind him on the painting's left. The two female characters sitting on the ground are identifiable with the Virtues who watch over Isabella's world: the one crowning the ox would be Perseverance, the one crowning the lamb would be Purity or Innocence.\n\nAnother interpretation is that based on the \"Tabula Cebetis\": the painting would represent the different genres of poetry, the foremost of which is lyrics, portrayed by Venus in the center. The character being crowned would be Sappho, and the personifications around her would be outstanding early lyricists such as Callimachus, Propertius, Ovid and Tibullus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21104016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21104016", "title": "American Federation of Arts", "text": "American Federation of Arts\n\nThe American Federation of Arts (AFA) is a nonprofit organization that creates art exhibitions for presentation in museums around the world, publishes exhibition catalogues, and develops education programs. The organization’s founding in 1909 was endorsed by Theodore Roosevelt and spearheaded by Secretary of State Elihu Root and eminent art patrons and artists of the day. The AFA’s mission is to enrich the public’s experience and understanding of the visual arts, and this is accomplished through its exhibitions, catalogues, and public programs. To date, the AFA has organized or circulated approximately 3,000 exhibitions that have been viewed by more than 10 million people in museums in every state, as well as in Canada, Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa.\n\nThe AFA was founded on May 12, 1909.\n\nAt a meeting on May 11, 1909, convened by the National Academy of Art’s Board of Regents—among whom were President William Howard Taft, former president Theodore Roosevelt, Cecilia Beaux, Robert Woods Bliss, William Merritt Chase, Robert W. de Forest, Homer Saint-Gaudens, Charles L. Hutchinson, Archer M. Huntington, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Leila Mechlin, Andrew W. Mellon, J. Pierpont Morgan, Francis D. Millet, Secretary of State Elihu Root, and Henry Walters, among others— Elihu Root called for the formation of an agency that would send “exhibitions of original works of art on tour to the hinterlands of the United States.” With the unanimous endorsement of Root’s motion by representatives from more than eighty American art institutions—among them, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, and the American Academy in Rome—the AFA was founded on May 12, 1909. The organization’s founders further agreed to hold annual meetings and devote themselves to promoting the visual arts as a vital component of the nation’s cultural life. Hutchinson, who at the time was the President of the Art Institute of Chicago, was elected the organization's first president.\n\nWhen Root proposed the creation of the AFA in 1909, the nation’s artistic wealth was largely concentrated in eastern cities and inaccessible to most citizens. The AFA and its traveling exhibitions were envisioned as a means of “bringing the museum to the people.” During its inaugural year, the AFA organized three traveling exhibitions, the first of which was \"Thirty-Eight Paintings by Prominent American Artists\", and launched \"Art and Progress\" magazine (later renamed \"Magazine of Art\"), an innovative vehicle for art scholarship that continued to be published until 1953. The AFA also published the first edition of \"Who's Who in American Art\" (1935), as well as the \"American Art Annual\" (later known as the \"American Art Directory\"). While it no longer publishes these directories and journals, the AFA retains a commitment to publishing new art historical research through the catalogues it produces in conjunction with its exhibitions.\n\nIn 1910, the AFA promoted the creation of a National Commission of Fine Arts, which was subsequently established by an act of congress to advise the government on matters of art and design as they pertain to the nation’s capital. In 1913, the AFA launched a successful lobbying effort to remove tariffs on art entering the United States and a 1916 session with the Interstate Commerce Commission to protest prohibitively high interstate taxes on traveling art. In 1920, the AFA was instrumental in organizing a lobbying campaign for the “development of a national gallery of art on a basis worthy of our great nation,” a goal eventually realized with the founding of the National Gallery of Art in 1941. Other government-tied AFA initiatives include arranging the first American representation in the Venice Biennale in 1924 and thereafter until the 1970s.\n\nThe AFA’s history includes a series of programs designed to facilitate greater access and appreciation of the visual arts, among them, the first nationally broadcast radio programs about art (1930s–1940s); the Picture of the Month Program (1954), offering original paintings at low rental fees to small art and educational organizations; the Museum Donor Program (1960s), distributing allowances to regional museums to purchase contemporary American art; \"The Art of Seeing\" (1965), a landmark series of educational films on visual perception; \"The Curriculum in Visual Education\" (1966), a collection of films and instructional materials designed to heighten the aesthetic awareness of children; the Rent-an-Artist Program (renamed the Visitor Artist Program) (1970s), placing artists in residency at museums around the country; \"A History of the American Avant-Garde Cinema\" (1976), the first curatorially selected international traveling film program; and ART ACCESS I and II (1989–98), a fee-subsidy program sponsored by the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund making AFA exhibitions of American art more affordable for museums.\n\nIn 1909, the AFA created the Package Library, which offered newspaper and magazine clippings on a variety of art subjects for loan to AFA members. Although intended primarily for use in communities with limited library facilities, the files were often in demand by members in larger cities as well. By 1942, the library included more than 1,000 envelopes covering topics from contemporary American painting to industrial art.\n\nIn 1934, in collaboration with the General Federation of Women's Clubs and with support from the Carnegie Corporation, the AFA launched the first nationally broadcast radio series on art, \"Art in America 1600–1865,\" with René d'Harnoncourt as program director. The first subject was “America After the Civil War: Whistler and Winslow Homer—Expatriate and Stay-at-Home.” Discontinued during World War II, the radio program was reestablished in the 1940s with the title “Living Art.”\n\nIn 1994, the AFA inaugurated the Directors Forum, a two-and-a-half-day annual conference for museum directors that featured panel discussions with some of the most distinguished professionals in the art world. Beginning in 2005, the Directors Forum is now an annual program of the independent Art Museum Partnership. Building upon the success of that program, the AFA began, in 2001, a similar conference for art museum curators. The Curators Forum later evolved into the independent Association of Art Museum Curators in 2001. In 2003, the AFA instituted ArtTalks, a lecture series featuring prominent artists and other influential figures of the art world, among them, artists Janine Antoni, Christo and Jeanne-Claude, John Currin, Shirin Neshat, and Do-Ho Suh; \"New York Times\" critic Roberta Smith; \"New Yorker\" writer Adam Gopnik; and Sotheby's Worldwide Head of Contemporary Art Tobias Meyer.\n\nMost recently, the AFA launched ArtViews, a series of panel discussions that address critical issues in the museum field. Its first edition held in 2011 was titled \"Shifting Challenges in the Protection of Archaeological Heritage\" and was organized in conjunction with the Institute of Fine Arts and the Association of Art Museum Directors. More recent subjects have included: \"Art Museum Funding at the Crossroads\" (2012), \"Art Museum Blockbusters: Myths, Facts, and their Future (2013), \"Digital Space/Physical Space, Mapping the 21st Century Museum\" (2015), \"The Future of Art Museum Leadership\" (2016), and \"Museums Now: Relevance and Representation\" (2017).\n\nThrough the development of touring film and video exhibitions, publications, and an eventual collection of 139 documentaries on the arts and avant-garde films and videos, the AFA developed a groundbreaking film and video program that focused on the work of independent contemporary media artists in this country and abroad. Released beginning in 1949, the organization’s publications on the subject include the pamphlet \"Guide to Films on Art\" (1949); \"Films on Art\" (1952), a comprehensive guide that listed and reviewed more than 450 films on art subjects; \"New American Filmmakers\" (1971), a catalogue of independent films produced in cooperation with the Whitney Museum; \"A History of the American Avant-Garde Cinema\" (1976); \"Films on Art: A Source Book\" (1977), the second edition of the 1952 volume \"Films on Art\"; and \"Before Hollywood: Turn-of-the-Century Film from American Archives\" (1987).\n\nIn 1959, the AFA co-sponsored the first art film festival in the U.S.—\"Films on Art Festival\", in Woodstock, New York, with the Woodstock Artists Association, the College Art Association, Hunter College, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In 1969, the AFA established \"Circulating Films on Art\", thus becoming the first organization of its kind to circulate such films for rent. In 1971, the AFA began circulating 200 films from the Whitney’s New American Filmmakers series, expanding the collaboration in 1979 with the circulation of films from the Whitney Biennial and again in 1983 with the addition of video to the Biennial. In 1976, the AFA organized the first curatorially selected international traveling film exhibition, \"A History of the American Avant-Garde Cinema\". In addition to its traveling video selections from the Whitney, in 1983, the AFA began organizing independent traveling video exhibitions, the first of which included \"American Documentary Video: Subject to Change\"; \"New Video: Japan\"; and \"Revisiting Romance: New Feminist Video\".\n\nIn 1993, the AFA transferred its collection of prize-winning American and European films and videotapes to the Museum of Modern Art’s Circulating Film and Video program, and in 1996, upon the dissolution of its Media Arts Department, transferred its inventory of film and video exhibitions to the Film and Video Department of the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nAfter initial meetings in Francis Millet’s studio in Washington, D.C., in 1909 the AFA moved its headquarters into the Octagon Building at 1741 New York Avenue, N.W., renting space from the American Institute of Architects. The National League of Handicraft Societies merged with the AFA in 1912, and constituent societies were made AFA members. In 1913, the AFA opened its first New York office in the Fine Arts Building at 215 West 57th Street. The office later moved to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and then to 40 East 49th Street. Beginning in 1952, the AFA relocated its headquarters, moving from Washington, D.C. to New York, renting offices at 1083 Fifth Avenue. In 1987, the AFA’s merger with the Art Museum Association of America (AMAA) brought together the two oldest nonprofit art museum organizations in America, creating a larger national organization that could offer a comprehensive set of services without duplication. Retaining the name American Federation of Arts, the new organization maintained offices in both New York and San Francisco, and former AMAA Director Myrna Smoot became director. The San Francisco office was dedicated to the AFA’s Museum Services Department. Also based in the West Coast was the AFA’s administration of the Getty’s Museum Management Institution (MMI), a training program for museum directors held at Berkeley. Now known as the Getty Leadership Institute, it is a program of the Getty Trust and operates out of Claremont Graduate University. In 1990, the AFA closed its West Coast office and moved the Museum Services Department to its New York headquarters. In 2007, the AFA sold its townhouse at 41 East 65th Street and moved to its current location at 305 East 47th Street.\n\n\nAFA exhibitions encompass a wide range of mediums, artists, historical periods, and cultural traditions—from Roman portraiture and Native American artifacts to American impressionism and contemporary art and sculpture. The AFA also collaborates with distinguished institutions around the world to tour important aspects of their collections. To further engage and inform museum visitors and art enthusiasts, the AFA produces innovative educational components and richly illustrated catalogues introducing original scholarship.\n\nExhibition highlights, 1950s–present\n\n\nEach year, the American Federation of Arts presents a Cultural Leadership Award to individuals who have demonstrated extraordinary commitment to supporting art and museums, both nationally and internationally. The Cultural Leadership Award is formally presented to the honorees at the AFA’s annual gala, which is attended by an elite group of leaders from society, business, and the cultural world. Proceeds from the gala help underwrite the AFA’s traveling exhibitions.\nPast Cultural Leadership Award recipients:\n\nThe AFA has maintained a membership program since its inception in 1909. AFA's approximate 60 members range from small regional museums, such as the Buddy Holly Center of Lubbock, Texas, to university galleries such as Colby College Museum of Art and Yale University Art Gallery, to larger institutions, among them, The Cleveland Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, and the Whitney Museum of American Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "30887918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30887918", "title": "Apotheosis of Democracy", "text": "Apotheosis of Democracy\n\nApotheosis of Democracy is a public artwork by American sculptor Paul Wayland Bartlett, located on the United States Capitol House of Representatives portico's east front in Washington, D.C., United States. This sculpture was surveyed in 1993 as part of the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program.\n\nThe pediment's center focal point is the figure of allegorical Peace, which is dressed in armor and is depicted protecting Genius. Leaning against Peace's proper right leg, Genius holds a torch that symbolizes immortality in his proper right hand. Peace stands in front of an olive tree. To Peace's proper left is a figure of Agriculture, and next to that figure is a reaper with his assistant, a farmer with his bull, a putti carrying grapes, and a mother with her child who plays with a ram. To the proper right of Peace is Industry, and next to him is a printmaker, an ironworker, a founder, a factory girl and a fisherman. The corners of the pediment have waves, which represent the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The pediment is made of Georgia marble.\n\nIn 1993 \"Apotheosis of Democracy\" was surveyed by art conservators from the Save Outdoor Sculpture! program and was described as \"well maintained.\"\n\nThe original pediment was commissioned to Erastus Dow Palmer in 1857, however, the work was never completed due to lack of funding. Another competition was held in 1908 and Bartlett was chosen. The figures were modeled in Paris, France and Washington between the years of 1911-1914 and carved by the Piccirilli Brothers from 1914-1916. The pediment was dedicated on August 2, 1916.\n\nIn March, 1963 plaster maquettes of the pediment were given to the U.S. Government by Bartlett's stepdaughter, Armistead Peter III. The works are on display in the Capitol underground hallway that heads to the Rayburn House Office Building.\n\nAs of 1995 a \"Study for Apotheosis of Democracy\" by Bartlett was in the collection of the Westmoreland Museum of American Art. A bronze sculpture (54 x 54.5 x 18) on a wooden base, it depicts Peace and Genius. It was purchased in 1959 and as of 1995 it was surveyed as needing urgent treatment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6304360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6304360", "title": "Ask the Dust (film)", "text": "Ask the Dust (film)\n\nAsk the Dust is a 2006 American-German film based on the book \"Ask the Dust\" by John Fante. The film was written and directed by Robert Towne and remains, , his last feature film. Tom Cruise (with Paula Wagner and Cruise/Wagner Productions) served as one of the film's producers. The film was released on a limited basis on March 17, 2006 and was entered into the 28th Moscow International Film Festival. It was filmed almost entirely in South Africa with the use of stages to portray Los Angeles.\n\nThe story is set during the Great Depression, specifically around the time of the 1933 Long Beach earthquake. Camilla (Salma Hayek) is a fiery, beautiful Mexican café waitress who aspires one day to be above her current standing in society, to make something of herself, to give her and her future children a place and chance in the world. Farrell's character is portrayed as a struggling writer who comes to Los Angeles's Bunker Hill area to start his writing career. Though he falls in love with Camilla, he does not marry her. Later, Camilla is infected by tuberculosis and leaves Arturo without informing him. When Arturo finds her, she is about to die and he promises to marry her, but Camilla dies and Arturo writes a novel dedicated to Camilla. Arturo writes a dedication in one of his books to her and throws it into the sand.\n\n\nPart of the film was shot at Pinelands High School, on fields modified to simulate a Los Angeles scenery.\n\nThe rights to the novel once belonged to Mel Brooks, though he let them lapse. Towne met Fante in the 1970s. This meeting led to his interest in the project. Despite finishing the script in the early 1990s, he couldn't find financial backing from a studio. During this time, Farrell's role was originally set to be played by Johnny Depp but he dropped out. Later Val Kilmer accepted the role and also dropped out. Another delay was Hayek initially rejecting the role to avoid being typecast as a Mexican immigrant. She accepted the role eight years later.\n\nThe film received negative to mixed reviews from critics. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 35% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 104 reviews. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 58 out of 100, based on 33 reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "12522283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12522283", "title": "Bandamanna saga", "text": "Bandamanna saga\n\nBandamanna saga () is one of the sagas of Icelanders. It is the only saga in this category that takes place exclusively after the adoption of Christianity in the year 1000.\n\nThe story starts with the relationship between Odd son of Ofeig and Ospak son of Glum; Ospak is the nephew of Grettir. Odd, with little help from his father, became rich and Ospak was known for his difficult character. Ospak asks to live with Odd at the latter's home; Odd agrees because of Ospak's connections even though he is aware of the man's reputation. Things go well until Odd wants to make a trading trip. He has to talk Ospak into becoming his steward and priest, although Ospak actually wants to do those things. While Odd is away, Ospak woos a rich woman named Svala and moves to her lands after a falling-out with Odd over the priesthood after Odd comes home.\n\nAlthough everything went fine while Odd was away, after Ospak moves out Odd's animals start to go missing and Vali, who was raised by Odd's father and now lives with Odd, promises to find out if Ospak stole them as Odd suspects. Vali tells Ospak that he is suspected, and is killed later when he and Odd visit Ospak's home by mistake for Odd. Odd tries to bring Ospak to trial but makes a legal mistake and fails.\n\nGoing home disappointed, Odd meets his father, who promises to take on the case if paid what Odd would have paid anybody else who could have fixed things. Ofeig gets the jurymen to agree to do what they want to do, condemn somebody as infamous as Ospak, and get paid into the bargain, in spite of the legal technicality.\n\nThe bribe is suspected by Thorarin, father of Ospak's wife, and his friend Styrmir, and they form a band and swear an oath with six other men to take Odd to court and hopefully fine him of all his money.\n\nThe rest of the story is about Ofeig's handling of the case and its outcome. Ofeig, very skillfully, convinces two of the other six men conspiring against Odd (the six men being known as the \"Confederates\") into helping them instead with even more bribery, convincing them that they will get no money because Odd is already gone, that they will look like embarrassed fools when they are caught and promises one of them that Odd will marry one of their daughters (works out for Odd). They agree and Ofeig convinces the court that if they are allowed one thing in this court case (where 6 (the Confederates) against 1 (Odd) is unconventional) it is that at least Ofeig can choose 2 of the men within the Confederates to decide the case and punishment. As previously agreed by Ofeig and the 2 men, they find him guilty but charge him very minimally. Thus, they (the two Confederates) do not break their oaths with the other Confederates and still get money. All parties but the remaining conspirators win.\n\n\nEllison, Ruth C., trans. \"The Saga of the Confederates.\" in \"The Sagas of Icelanders: A Selection\", edited by Örnólfur Thorsson and Bernard Scudder, 463-95. New York: Penguin,2001.\n"}
{"id": "44179238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44179238", "title": "Chitra Gajadin", "text": "Chitra Gajadin\n\nChitra Gajadin (born in Distrikt Suriname, June 21, 1954) is a Surinamese author of poetry, drama and prose. Though she lives in the Netherlands and her main literary language is Dutch, her expression of joy occurs when she is reminded of her native country. Gajadin worked as a reviewer for \"Weekkrant Suriname\", in the public libraries, and for some magazines. Her poetry delves into themes of India and Hindu culture, where she describes sensitive and penetrating observances of Hindustani who left Suriname. Her poems display nostalgia for her youth in the district of Suriname and her experiences returning to her homeland after years of absence. As an Indo-Caribbean female poet, her contemporaries are Mahadai Das, Shana Yardan, Niala Maharaj, and Asha Radjkoemar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46365229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46365229", "title": "Christians in the Visual Arts", "text": "Christians in the Visual Arts\n\nChristians in the Visual Arts (CIVA) is an American visual arts organization working to enhance and explore the relationship between Christian faith and the visual arts. It was founded in 1979.\n\nGallery instructor Jeremy Hamilton-Arnold describes CIVA's work as \"Many of the artists involved [in CIVA] are making art worth showing, sharing, and talking about.\" It publishes the \"Seen\" magazine, and co-curates and co-sponsors traveling art exhibitions.\n"}
{"id": "16663203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16663203", "title": "Comedy (drama)", "text": "Comedy (drama)\n\nA comedy is entertainment consisting of jokes intended to make an audience laugh. For ancient Greeks and Romans a comedy was a stage-play with a happy ending. In the Middle Ages, the term expanded to include narrative poems with happy endings and a lighter tone. In this sense Dante used the term in the title of his poem, the \"Divine Comedy\" (Italian: \"Divina Commedia\").\n\nThe phenomena connected with laughter and that which provokes it has been carefully investigated by psychologists and agreed upon the predominating characteristics are incongruity or contrast in the object, and shock or emotional seizure on the part of the subject. It has also been held that the feeling of superiority is an essential factor: thus Thomas Hobbes speaks of laughter as a \"sudden glory.\" Modern investigators have paid much attention to the origin both of laughter and of smiling, as well as the development of the \"play instinct\" and its emotional expression.\n\nMuch comedy contains variations on the elements of surprise, incongruity, conflict, repetitiveness, and the effect of opposite expectations, but there are many recognized genres of comedy. Satire and political satire use ironic comedy used to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of humor.\n\nParody borrows the form of some popular genre, artwork, or text but uses certain ironic changes to critique that form from within (though not necessarily in a condemning way). Screwball comedy derives its humor largely from bizarre, surprising (and improbable) situations or characters. Black comedy is defined by dark humor that makes light of so-called dark or evil elements in human nature. Similarly scatological humor, sexual humor, and race humor create comedy by violating social conventions or taboos in comedic ways.\n\nA comedy of manners typically takes as its subject a particular part of society (usually upper class society) and uses humor to parody or satirize the behavior and mannerisms of its members. Romantic comedy is a popular genre that depicts burgeoning romance in humorous terms, and focuses on the foibles of those who are falling in love.\n\nThe word \"comedy\" is derived from the Classical Greek κωμῳδία, which is a compound either of \"κῶμος\" (revel) or \"κώμη\" (village) and \"ᾠδή\" (singing): it is possible that \"κῶμος\" itself is derived from \"κώμη\", and originally meant a village revel. The adjective \"comic\" (Greek κωμικός), which strictly means that which relates to comedy is, in modern usage, generally confined to the sense of \"laughter-provoking\". The word came into modern usage through the Latin \"comoedia \"and Italian \"commedia\" and has, over time, passed through various shades of meaning.\n\nIn ancient Greece, comedy seems to have originated in songs or recitations apropos of fertility festivals or gatherings, or also in making fun at other people or stereotypes. In the \"Poetics\", Aristotle states that comedy originated in phallic rituals and festivals of mirth. It is basically an imitation of 'the ridiculous, which is a species of the ugly.' However, Aristotle taught that comedy is a good thing. It brings forth happiness, which for Aristotle is the ideal state, the final goal in any activity. He does believe that we humans feel pleasure oftentimes by doing the wrong thing, but he does not necessarily believe that comedy and humor is the wrong thing. It is also not true for Aristotle that a comedy must involve sexual humor to qualify as a comedy. A comedy is about the fortunate arise of a sympathetic character. A happy ending is all that is required in his opinion. \n\nOn the contrary, the Greek Philosopher Plato taught that comedy is a destruction to the self. He believed it produces an emotion that overrides rational self-control and learning. In The Republic (Plato), he says that the Guardians of the state should avoid laughter, \"for ordinarily when one abandons himself to violent laughter, his condition provokes a violent reaction.\" Plato says comedy should be tightly controlled if one wants to achieve the ideal state.\n\nNorthrop Frye described the comic genre as a drama that pits two societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. He depicted these two opposing sides as a \"Society of Youth\" and a \"Society of the Old\", \"The Anatomy of Criticism\". 1957, but this dichotomy is seldom described as an entirely satisfactory explanation. A later view characterizes the essential agon of comedy as a struggle between a powerless youth and the societal conventions that pose obstacles to his hopes; in this sense, the youth is understood to be constrained by his lack of social authority, and is left with little choice but to take recourse to ruses which engender very dramatic.\n\n\nfrom what has been discussed\n\n"}
{"id": "22357361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22357361", "title": "Croatian Film Archive", "text": "Croatian Film Archive\n\nThe Croatian Film Archive () is the national film archive of Croatia. It is a member of the International Federation of Film Archives and of ACE, the Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques. The archive was founded in 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4253714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4253714", "title": "Diane Butcher", "text": "Diane Butcher\n\nDiane Butcher is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", played by Sophie Lawrence. Diane appears as a regular character between 1988 and 1991, when Lawrence decided to leave. The character makes several brief returns in 1993, 1994, and 1997. In 2008, she returns for her father Frank (Mike Reid)'s funeral; on 20 June 2012 she returns for her sister Janine's (Charlie Brooks) wedding, departing on 29 June 2012.\n\nOver the years Diane develops from a rebellious teenager who runs away from home, to a free-spirited single mother having difficulty looking after her young son. More recently, a more-mature Diane settled in France and, in a departure from a character previously depicted as heterosexual, she is stated to be in a long-term relationship with another woman.\n\nDiane arrives in Albert Square in 1988 as the daughter of second-hand car salesman Frank Butcher (Mike Reid) and sister to Ricky Butcher (Sid Owen). Her mother June died in 1987, and when her father remarries Pat Wicks (Pam St. Clement) and takes over as landlord of the Queen Victoria public house, she lives with them there. Later the family move out of the pub to run a bed and breakfast elsewhere on the Square.\n\nProblematic and strong-willed, she falls for the Butchers' lodger Paul Priestly (Mark Thrippleton) in 1989, much to Frank's annoyance. Diane takes the relationship more seriously than Paul, and she is devastated when he finishes with her to begin a fling with hairdreser Julie Cooper (Louise Plowright). Paul and Julie do not last, and he immediately returns to Diane. Scorned, Diane cannot forgive Julie for taking Paul, and she plays various vengeful tricks on her as payback, such as sabotaging her salon's opening day and sending her a male escort to make her look desperate. Julie responds by flirting with Paul to infuriate Diane further, and their feud culminates in a showdown in The Queen Vic one night, at which Julie humiliates Diane. Paul quickly loses interest in Diane. Ignoring his reticence, Diane convinces herself that Paul is contemplating proposing marriage to her, so she is broken-hearted when he returns to his hometown in Leeds in December 1989; he leaves without saying goodbye.\n\nFeeling misunderstood and unloved after believing that her family have forgotten her 16th birthday, Diane runs away from home in January 1990 and joins the down-and-outs on the streets of London. She is sinking fast when street-wise teenager Disa O'Brien (Jan Graveson) takes her under her wing, showing her how to survive. Disa turns to prostitution for extra money, and Diane poses nude for photographs for a man named Matthew Taylor (Neil Phillips) who makes a sculpture of her. She eventually returns to Albert Square in March 1990, after her father has been searching for months, but she struggles to adjust to life back in Walford. As a result of her time away, Diane develops an interest in art. When Taylor turns up trying to woo Diane, he deposits a life-size sculpute of her in Albert Square. Livid, Frank smashes up the statue and confronts Taylor, further alienating Diane.\n\nDiane develops a friendship with Mark Fowler (Todd Carty) when he returns to his family home in 1990, and enlists his help to find Disa, who is heavily pregnant and living in \"Cardboard City\". Disa refuses their help initially; after she gives birth, she abandons the child on Diane's doorstep on Christmas Day. Diane and Mark care for the baby in secret until they find Disa and persuade her to come home with them. Diane takes care of them and attempts to help Disa bond with her child.\n\nDiane is keen for her relationship with Mark to progress, so his hesitance upsets her. Eventually he confesses that he is HIV-positive. She pledges to stick with him although the task is daunting. She acts as a confidante, helping him to face up to his illness and seek counselling and professional help. Diane is unsettled when Mark begins spending time with his HIV+ ex-girlfriend Gill (Susanna Dawson), and when Mark proposes to Diane in June 1991, she gently turns him down. The following month she leaves Walford to go on a fruit-picking holiday in France. She telephones Frank in September to say she will not be returning.\n\nFrank visits Diane in France in 1993. He is horrified to discover she is pregnant and unsure who the father is. After a heated argument Frank storms off, refusing to speak to Diane, but they manage to make peace by the time Frank leaves—Diane drives to the ferry and tearfully waves Frank goodbye. Diane returns for a short stint in 1994 to inform Pat that Frank is alive and well and has merely run away from Walford following a mental breakdown—Frank had visited Diane off-screen in France.\n\nRicky visits Diane in France in 1997, spending time with her young son Jacques. Diane is in a tempestuous relationship with a Cameroonian musician named Thomas, and when this abruptly ends, she and son Jacques turn up in Walford, looking for a place to stay. However a short time later, Thomas visits Diane and asks her to go travelling with him on tour in Africa. Diane goes without informing anyone, leaving Jacques with Ricky and his wife Bianca (Patsy Palmer). Pregnant Bianca struggles to care for troublesome Jacques, and even considers having an abortion as a result. Jacques is sent to live in Manchester with Diane's sister Clare (Lucy Foxell), until Diane retrieves him to live with her in Paris.\n\nIn 2008, Frank dies of cancer at Diane's home in Paris, requesting that his funeral be held in Walford. Diane returns on 31 March 2008 with Ricky, where they convey the news of Frank's death to his former wives Pat and Peggy Mitchell (Barbara Windsor). The following day, Diane is glad to see her sister Janine (Charlie Brooks) back for Frank's funeral. During a conversation with Janine, Diane reveals she has been in a relationship with a woman called Suzanne for three years. At Frank's wake in the Queen Vic, Diane is approached by Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) to speak about her experience of running away as a teenager, believing her insight might help him find his own missing daughter, Lucy Beale (Melissa Suffield). Frank leaves individual gifts to each of his children. Diane receives some of her old school paintings and drawings. Diane helps Ricky, Janine, and Pat scatter Frank's ashes in the flowerbeds of the Square before departing.\n\nFour years later, Diane returns to Walford to attend Janine's wedding to Michael Moon (Steve John Shepherd). She comforts Janine when Michael is questioned over allegations of fraud before arranging a hen party for her that evening. It is mentioned that Diane is still with Suzanne. She later acts as Janine's maid of honour at her wedding and escorts her to hospital after she goes into premature labour. The day after the birth of her niece Scarlett, she helps the initially-reluctant Janine produce her first breast milk.\n\nDiane stays for a week after Scarlett's birth until Janine tells her and Ricky that they should return to their own lives. Diane agrees and tells Ricky that she cannot leave Jacques on his own. Diane stays for Scarlett's christening at the hospital then returns to France. Following Michael's murder and Janine's arrest, Diane becomes Scarlett's guardian.\n\n\"EastEnders\" had been on air for three years before the character of Diane made her first screen appearance in May 1988. At the time, big changes were occurring \"behind-the-scenes\". Co-creator Julia Smith took \"a more back-seat role\" as Series Producer, which allowed producer Mike Gibbon to take control of the making of the programme.\n\nThe arrival of the Butcher family in May 1988 signified an end of an era for the soap, as Den and Angie Watts (Leslie Grantham and Anita Dobson) vacated their positions as landlord and landlady of The Queen Victoria public house, leaving Frank (Mike Reid), and his girlfriend Pat Wicks (Pam St. Clement) to take over tenancy. Ricky (Sid Owen) and Diane, played by Sophie Lawrence, Frank's teenage children came with Frank. Lawrence was 15 at the time, and she got the part in \"EastEnders\" straight after leaving stage school. Lawrence has commented, \"I always just thought that I would be a dancer and go into a West End musical and that I would be very, very happy. Then I got \"EastEnders\" when I was 15 and it kind of changed my life.\"\n\nDiane has been described as \"dreamy\" and someone who \"was always destined for more romantic things than the reality of Walford.\" \"Sensitive and artistic\", for a time Diane was portrayed as the least troublesome of the Butcher family, the one who conformed the most, though she began to rebel against her father's heavy-handed paternalism.\n\n\"EastEnders\" writer Sarah Phelps has described the character as sharp, smart with elements of her mother in her. Phelps adds \"she had a sharp tongue and a quick mind...you could see her looking at her family and looking at Walford...and thinking 'this ain't for me'.\" Sophie Lawrence has said, \"Diane was a bit of a wild child...she was a bit naughty, she was always in trouble. I think it was something to do with losing her mother at an early age...She ran away [from home] to make a statement. I think it was a 'notice me' kind of thing. It worked.\"\n\nIn the 2008 television documentary \"EastEnders: Ricky and Bianca\", Diane was described as \"rather normal\" for a member of the Butcher family. Upon her return in 2008, the character had altered and matured. Lawrence has commented, \"coming back, she seems quite nice actually, she seem more relaxed. She's so much older I suppose, so she's sort of grown up really. She seems nice and kind and settled with her life.\"\n\nThe most notable storyline featuring Diane during her initial stint on the soap concerned the character running away from home in 1990. In the on-screen events, Diane was shown to be increasingly unhappy towards the latter part of 1989, exacerbated by the sudden departure of her boyfriend Paul Priestly (Mark Thrippleton). Diane decided to run away from home in January 1990 when it seemed her family had forgotten her 16th birthday—they were actually planning a surprise party for her that she never got to see. Diane's disappearance dominated the programme in the beginning of 1990. Focus was placed upon the effect her departure had on the Butcher family, in particular her father Frank who searched unsuccessfully for his missing daughter.\n\nWhen the storyline had originally been scripted in 1989, it was left open-ended, meaning that none of the writers or producers of \"EastEnders\" had decided whether Diane would ever be found. However, towards the end of 1989, \"EastEnders\" acquired a new executive producer, Michael Ferguson, and according to scriptwriter Colin Brake, one of his first decisions was that \"Diane must be found\". The subsequent story of her returning home and adjusting to life back in Walford was developed.\n\nThe episodes where Diane returned home aired towards the end of March 1990. They were written by Tony McHale and directed by Mike Barnes. The episodes have been described as \"extraordinary\" and a \"radical departure from the normal \"EastEnders\" form\", because they used flashbacks to tell the story of Diane's three months living on the streets of London as a homeless girl. Simultaneously, they also told the present story of Frank finding Diane, and bringing her back to Walford. Colin Brake has described them as powerful episodes, which \"returned \"EastEnders\" to the tradition of gritty realism that had been integral to the early episodes.\" In the flashbacks, it was revealed that Diane had lived rough on the streets and joined a gang of runaways, befriending a young girl named Disa O'Brien (Jan Graveson). Diane also became involved with an artist named Matthew Taylor, who took nude photos of her and then constructed a life-size sculpture of her, which later turned up in Albert Square, enraging Frank. This ignited Diane's own interest in art, which was demonstrated later in the year when she painted a mural on the side of the Butcher household. Actress Sophie Lawrence did research for the storyline among real homeless people.\n\nSubsequent storylines featuring Diane included involvement in the plight of pregnant runaway Disa, whom Diane brought back to Walford to bond with her baby—Disa had initially abandoned the baby on Diane's doorstep on Christmas Day 1990. The bulk of the character's narrative concerned a blossoming romance with one of \"EastEnders\"' original characters, Mark Fowler (Todd Carty), who returned to the serial as a regular character in 1990 after a three-year absence. The relationship was never consummated however, because in January 1991 Mark revealed to Diane that he was HIV positive—he was the first mainstream soap opera character to be diagnosed. The episode, written by Tony McHale, has been described as the \"important\" beginning to Mark's HIV storyline, as Mark's secret HIV status was finally revealed to the audience as well as Diane. In the on-screen events, Diane tried to be supportive to Mark and persuaded him to have counselling at the Terrence Higgins Trust, though their relationship was never quite the same again; when Mark, prompted by his mother Pauline, asked Diane to marry him, she turned him down and left the serial to move to France shortly after.\n\nOff-screen Sophie Lawrence had decided to quit the soap to take on new projects, which included an attempt at a music career. She has commented, \"I left because I wanted to play something different. In doing that, you have to grow out of the public's perception of you as an \"EastEnders\" character. But I wanted variety of roles. I felt I couldn't just carry on being Diane indefinitely. I wanted to be an actor, not just a personality.\"\n\nThe character has made numerous brief returns to the serial as a guest character. In 1993, she was featured in a special week of episodes, filmed on-location in Paris, France, where Frank discovered, to his horror, that Diane was pregnant with an unknown foreign man's baby. In June 1994, Diane returned to Walford as part of a storyline involving her father's disappearance. In 1997, another week's worth of episodes set in Paris reunited Ricky and Diane. Shortly after, the character returned to the soap's setting of Walford, but Lawrence reportedly quit weeks after making her comeback. She had since commented on her reasons for quitting so soon: \"Going back to \"EastEnders\" was like going back to school and none of your friends are there. I was [originally] there with people like Nick Berry (Simon Wicks) and Letitia Dean (Sharon Watts) and they'd all gone. One of the young actors, who will remain nameless, made me a coffee and started telling me all about what it was like. He had no idea I'd been in the soap before.\" In addition, Lawrence was suffering physically as she was still getting over injuries she sustained from a car accident and was forced to remove a neck brace for filming purposes. On-screen, the character departed to travel with her musician boyfriend, abandoning her young son in her brother's care. Bosses at \"EastEnders\" had reportedly been keen for Lawrence to remain on the show, as they were hoping for an on-screen reunion of the Butcher family; Mike Reid had agreed to reprise his role as Frank, though Diane departed before his reintroduction.\n\nDespite claiming that she would never return to \"EastEnders\" in 1997, Lawrence was upset when she discovered that both Sid Owen and Mike Reid (Ricky and Frank) were leaving \"EastEnders\" in 2000 as, in her opinion, it ruled out any chance of her character returning to the show. She commented, \"It would be great fun to get all the Butcher clan back for a few months. I hear Diane's name mentioned quite a lot on the show — it makes me feel like I've never really left. But all the people I'm connected with are leaving, which makes going back harder and I'm really sorry about that. It would be great to have the Butcher clan come back for Mike's sendoff. But, sadly, I don't think there is the space for me to go back full-time.\" In 2002, she was asked if she would ever return to the soap and she responded, \"If they asked me, I’d love to go back. Not on a long term contract or anything because I love doing other things but I’d definitely like to go back.\"\n\nHowever, the character did not make another appearance in the soap until late March 2008. Sophie Lawrence was asked to reprise the role by executive producer Diederick Santer as part of a storyline that has been dubbed \"Frank Week\". Mike Reid died in 2007 and due to the popularity of the character he played, Santer decided that Frank would also be killed off in the serial. A funeral was held for the character as a tribute to both the actor and the \"iconic\" character he played. Lawrence was one of several actors brought back to the show especially for the storyline. She was joined by Charlie Brooks, who played her younger sister Janine and Sid Owen as her brother Ricky.\n\nCommenting to \"Digital Spy\" about her return, Lawrence said: \"I've not been in the show for 11 years and it's not like I've ever thought \"I'll never go back\", you just think that your chance to go back has gone. It never crossed my mind that the occasion would ever arise, so when I got the phone call, it was really odd. There was never any doubt that I'd do it for Mike [Reid] and it's not something that's really been done — I don't think someone's ever died off-screen and then they've done the funeral on-screen. I think everyone was quite wary because it's quite an odd thing to do to have attended his real funeral and then go back to film it all over again. There was some trepidation about how it was going to work. But as soon as we arrived, it was like 11 years of your life had been wiped out and you'd been there the day before [...] I had this really lovely scene with Sid [Owen] where I said: \"Isn't it strange, you imagine you’d come back and everything would be here waiting for us just like it was.\" Diane's saying everything's moved on, but for me it was the opposite, I'd got back there and everything was the same.\"\n\nThe character was brought back for a period of four episodes. Lawrence has revealed that she thought she would have minimal involvement in the storyline and was surprised at how much dialogue she was given. Each of the returning characters were given their own storyline; in Diane's case, she was in a relationship with a female doctor named Suzanne. Lawrence commented, \"I think [Diane]'s quite alright now—she's come back and she's sorted. She knows the score.\" When asked if she would ever make a full-time return, Lawrence said, \"Once you're re-established, you're a character that other characters can go and visit. For example, after Diane's left Walford again, Pat goes to stay with her for a couple of weeks. So there's no reason why I couldn't return for a two-week 'holiday' to see the kids!\" On 6 May 2012, a \"Daily Star\" reporter announced Lawrence would be returning to \"EastEnders\" alongside Sid Owen (Ricky Butcher) for the wedding of their on screen sister, Janine, played by Charlie Brooks. She made her on-screen return on 20 June 2012 and departed on 29 June.\n\nIn reference to Diane's return to the soap in 2008 for Frank's funeral, Paul English from the \"Daily Record\" accused \"EastEnders\" of using actor Mike Reid's real death as \"an opportunity to reintroduce some popular old faces. Boiled down, it's cashing in on the dead - but it's how Frank might have done it himself.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5273075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5273075", "title": "Eight Days of Luke", "text": "Eight Days of Luke\n\nEight Days of Luke is a children's fantasy novel written by Diana Wynne Jones published in 1975. It tells the tale of a neglected English boy who encounters what prove to be figures from Norse mythology.\n\nDavid Allard, an orphan, returns to his hometown of Ashbury from boarding school to discover that his relatives-cum-guardians have nothing arranged for his summer and he will have to endure their mistreatment for his entire holiday.\n\nWhile walking in the garden, in a fit of frustration he makes up words to use as a curse. David's words seem to cause the garden wall to crumble, and to release a boy a year or so older than himself with flame-red hair, who identifies himself as Luke. Happy to have made a new friend, David notices Luke's odd references to being released from his \"chains\" and \"bowls of venom\". The two hastily repair the wall, and David notices that Luke's touch seems to burn the bushes growing beside the wall. Luke says ruefully that he \"can't bring the dead back to life.\" Luke also tells David that simply kindling a flame will summon him.\n\nWhen David and his young cousin-by-marriage, Astrid (who seems the best of the awful relatives) are on a shopping expedition the next day, Luke duly appears when David lights a match. Luke ingratiates himself with Astrid, and when a bored David suggests it would be great if the building across from them caught on fire, the building suddenly does. People are trapped. It is only when David tells Luke that he wants the fire out, and reminds Luke that he cannot bring the dead back to life, that the fire dies down.\n\nThat evening, David escapes punishment because his uncle is upset that his gardener has found another job over at Thunderly Hill. David notices more odd things about Luke; he can entertain his friend with fiery doodles. Also, when Luke is asleep, he seems ageless, and heals uncommonly quickly.\n\nIn the morning, the new gardener Mr. Chew arrives. He is very interested in David, and in the place where Luke's release took place. Luke, who has slept over, seems afraid of Chew, castigating himself for his carelessness in scorching the plants. David helps Luke escape the house without Chew noticing, and they play cricket (David's obsession) down the street, where they meet a new friend, Alan. David is unable to escape the house in the afternoon, due to Chew's vigilance. David is sent again to his room without supper, though Astrid secretly brings him food.\n\nThe next morning, a well-dressed man named Mr. Wedding arrives and persuades David's relations to let him take David out for lunch in a car chauffeured by a beautiful lady. He quickly gains David's trust, and David gladly tells him all the things about school he could not tell his relatives. They arrive at a green island, linked to the mainland by a long arching bridge with a rainbow-like effect. While David is served a wonderful lunch, Mr. Wedding begins interrogating David about Luke, and David admits only to releasing Luke while trying to curse. David notices for the first time that Wedding is missing an eye.\n\nWedding tells David that Luke was imprisoned for doing something terrible. He tries frightening David, threatening to keep him captive, promising him a bribe, even shaming him. None of this is successful – David will not betray Luke – and eventually Mr. Wedding returns David home, seeming to admire David for his stubbornness. But first he makes a deal with David: if David can keep Luke free until Sunday, then Luke is safe for good.\n\nMr. Wedding sets a talking raven to watch David, but he is able to evade the bird and summon Luke. He tells Luke about the deal, who is confident that they will win against Mr. Wedding.\n\nThe next day, David is blocked from leaving the house by two ravens – until he distracts them with a joint of meat while he drives off with Astrid. Luke appears when David strikes a match for Astrid's cigarette, and is suddenly caught by a fair, strong ginger-haired individual. However, after Luke is questioned by the fellow, he is released. It seems the individual, who seems very nice, has lost something. Luke denies any knowledge. David and Luke agree that the best course is for Luke to simply vanish until Monday.\n\nBut the next day, the Frys from down the street show up, followed shortly by Mr. Chew and Mr Wedding. When a confused Astrid needs a cigarette lit, the inevitable happens – Luke appears and is caught by the group. They begin shouting demands at Luke; Luke denies everything, and David defends him, saying Luke did not act out of revenge, but as a favour for someone now dead. Luke admits that he did help someone hide something so it might never be found. The crowd is grudgingly convinced that this is true, and Mr. Wedding strikes a new deal with David: since David has no idea what he is looking for, it is possible for him to find it (according to the rules of the charm Luke laid down). If David restores what the ginger-haired fellow lost by Sunday, Luke will remain free, otherwise he will be sent back to prison.\n\nAstrid has figured out the puzzle, but Luke warns her not to tell David. David convinces one of the ravens to lead them to a house on Wednesday Hill, where David should find \"three Knowing Ones under the tree.\" It is Alan's house, and through a secret door, David and Alan find a huge tree, with three blind crones, sharing an eye among them, washing, spinning, and cutting wool at a well. They refuse to talk until David captures their eye – then they tell David to go to the place (Wallsey) where Mr. Wedding took him and ask the man with the dragon where to look.\n\nThe next day, Astrid drives David, Alan, and her husband, Cousin Ronald, to Wallsey, which appears very different from when David saw it with Mr. Wedding. David searches the hall, which is filled with strong young men cheating pinball machines, until he finds what he was told to look for—a man with a dragon tattoo.\n\nBy the rules, the three must run a gauntlet before having their questions answered, which the boys do courageously and Ronald does in a cowardly fashion. The dragon man admits to taking the item they sought as revenge, on behalf of a woman who blamed Mr. Wedding for something that happened. The woman can be found on Thunderly Hill, where a hospital is now built.\n\nDavid, Luke, Astrid, Ronald, and the ginger-haired fellow all proceed to Thunderly Hill, on the excuse that Ronald's minor injuries should be treated. When David and Luke step inside \"Firestone Ward\", they find themselves on a grassy hillside that burns but is never consumed. Luke admits that he set the fire, long ago, and it will burn until the end of time. David braves the flames (with Luke doing his best to suppress the fire) and discovers a cairn, on which a hauntingly beautiful lady in armour lies, not quite dead, but barely breathing. Across her chest rests a stone implement with a too-short handle. When David realises it is a hammer, suddenly everything falls into place and he realises who everyone really is. He returns to Luke, and is told that an entire day has passed – David has been outside time. He restores the hammer to the ginger-haired fellow, who is of course Thor. Mr. Wedding is Woden, chief of the gods. The dragon man is Siegfried, and the lady Brunhilda.\n\nAstrid reveals that (no doubt with divine interference) David's other relatives have been exposed as financial frauds, and have fled. Astrid will now be David's guardian. Luke will be around – but at the final battle yet to come, he and Mr. Wedding will be on opposite sides.\n\nAn afterword gives a full explanation of the Norse references on which the story is based. Luke is Loki, the Norse god of luck and fire. The other gods show up on the day they give their names to in the week:\n\n\nDavid encountered the Norns under the great tree Yggdrasil, and travelled to Valhalla (afterlife for heroes on Wallsey island) with Woden and one of his Valkyries.\n\nScience fiction author Orson Scott Card, reviewing several Diana Wynne Jones reissues in \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\", wrote\n\n\"Eight Days of Luke\" takes us into the world of the Nordic gods, as both sides in the intensely amoral struggle prepare for Götterdämmerung. Yet she manages to connect their quarrels and manoeuvres with contemporary life, including giving Thor a leather-jacket gang in a pinball arcade and putting one-eyed Wutan in a business suit. And our hero's passage from \"real\" to fantasy world and back again is as smooth as in the best of contemporary fantasists – Charles de Lint, for instance, or Megan Lindholm, or Lisa Goldstein. Yet \"Eight Days of Luke\" bears a 1975 copyright, predating these others by years. (Indeed, I wonder how many of our contemporary fantasists might not have been exposed to Jones in their youth. How strong is her influence? Or is she simply weaving her own thread into the fabric of contemporary myth?)\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" wrote \"Loosely based on Norse mythology, this story is a smooth blend of myth and reality, a task that Jones ( A Tale of Time City ) performs with ease and assurance.\"\n\nFantasy writer Neil Gaiman, asked whether his 2000 novel \"American Gods\" was inspired by \"Eight Days of Luke\", responded \"Not exactly, although they bear an odd relationship, like second cousins once removed or something.\" After coming up with an idea for a story linking Norse gods and the days of the week, he realised \"gloomily that I'd managed, working back from first principles, to come up with a wonderful structure for a story – but one that Diana had already used... and, with regret, I abandoned it. Or almost. I kept Mr Wednesday, and the day of his meeting, in the back of my head.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42724701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42724701", "title": "Folkton Drums", "text": "Folkton Drums\n\nThe Folkton Drums are a unique set of decorated chalk objects in the shape of drums or solid cylinders dating from the Neolithic period. Found in a child's grave near the village of Folkton in northern England, they are now on loan to Stonehenge Visitor Centre from the British Museum.\n\nIn 1889, a round prehistoric barrow was opened by the scholar and amateur archaeologist William Greenwell near Folkton in North Yorkshire. Inside, he found a neolithic grave dating to the time of Stonehenge, estimated to be between 2600 and 2000 BC. The remains of several bodies were unearthed, one of whom was a child beside which the three drums were found. The rarity of this find (no other similar artifact is known from Europe) suggests that the child came from an elite group in society. Four years after the discovery, the drums were donated by Greenwell, along with other parts of his collection, to the British Museum.\n\nThe three drum-like forms are made of chalk (that was quarried locally) and are decorated with stylized human faces and geometric patterns. On the top of the cylinders are a series of concentric circles and two of them have pairs of eyes that schematically denote a human face. The design of the drums is similar to objects made in the Beaker culture and early bronze age. The purpose of the drums is unknown, although the faces may represent important members of the local clan or they may be a type of children's toy that has uniquely survived, when most would have been made of wood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24733808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24733808", "title": "Francis Muguet", "text": "Francis Muguet\n\nFrancis Fabien Michel Muguet (1955–2009) was a French chemist who advocated open access to information.\n\nMuguet graduated with a Ph.D from Texas Tech University with a thesis on water chemistry in 1992. His advisor was G. Wilse Robinson.\nHe also held a law degree. He was a researcher at ENSTA (Ecole Nationale Superieure de Techniques Avancées) from 1993 to 2009 and worked, during the last months of his life, as a consultant for International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the University of Geneva.\n\nDefender of the free and open access to scientific content, he chaired the Civil Society Scientific Information Working Group, and co-ordinated a group on patents, trademarks and copyrights at the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).\n\nMuguet is also known for designing the pattern of global patronage which aims to answer the legal argument raised against the global license under the Berne Convention on copyright. The sponsorship was supported by his friend Richard Stallman who co-authored with him the Declaration of Louisiana at a workshop organized by the French Society of the Internet on March 12, 2009. Muguet was then one of the founders of the SARD, a Society of acceptance and distribution of gifts inspired by the principles of global patronage.\nHis daughter found him on October 14, dead after not answering his mail for several days.\nFollowing the announcement of his death, a change was made in the process of printing the book \"La bataille Hadopi\", to which he had contributed, dedicating it to him.\n\nMuguet was active in the World Network for Linguistic Diversity and point of contact for the Dynamic Coalition for Linguistic Diversity of the Internet Governance Forum and a member of ICVolunteers. From 2001 to 2005, he was Associate Editor MDPI Center Basel.\n\n"}
{"id": "32539833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32539833", "title": "Georg Wilhelm Timm", "text": "Georg Wilhelm Timm\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Timm, also known as Vasily Fyodorovich Timm (Russian: Василий Фёдорович Тимм; 21 June 1820, Riga - 19 April 1895, Berlin) was a Baltic-German painter, lithographer and ceramic designer, known for his genre and battle scenes. He was also the publisher of the \"\".\n\nHis father, Friedrich Wilhelm Timm (1779-1848), was the mayor of Riga. His sister, Emilie, married the painter Karl Bryullov in 1839. His first art studies were in Riga, then he went to Saint Petersburg, where he enrolled as a \"foreign student\" at the Imperial Academy of Arts. His primary instructor there was the battle painter, Alexander Sauerweid.\n\nHe was awarded two silver medals and graduated in 1839 with the title of \"Artist\". Five years later, thanks to an Imperial scholarship, he went to Paris where he worked under the direction of Horace Vernet, also a battle painter, and made a visit to Algiers. Upon his return to Paris, he began exhibiting at the Salon where he attracted critical praise.\n\nThe onset of the French Revolution of 1848 forced him to return to Saint Petersburg, where he was initially employed as an illustrator; notably for the works of Faddey Bulgarin and Nikolay Gretsch. He worked primarily in the media of lithography and woodcuts and was sometimes referred to as the \"Russian Gavarni\".\n\nHe travelled extensively throughout Russia, serving as a battle painter during the second phase of the Caucasian War. In 1852, he accompanied Tsar Nicholas I on a visit to Finland . Later, he made sketches at the Siege of Sevastopol. As a result, in 1855, he was named an \"Academician\" by the Imperial Academy. \n\nFrom 1851 to 1862, by leave of the Royal Family, he published the \"Russian Art Gazette\", which featured works by many prominent Russian artists, made into lithographs by Timm. He had to stop publishing the gazette when he began to suffer from an eye disease. \n\nIn 1867, he moved to Berlin to seek treatment and took up a position as the Director of a privately operated ceramics institute. He never returned to Russia. In 1876, he was appointed a Professor at the Prussian Academy of Arts and began working at the Royal Porcelain Factory. After his death, his widow donated his estate to the Riga City Art Museum. A major retrospective was held at their new building in 1906.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20699474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20699474", "title": "Iglesia de San Román, Toledo", "text": "Iglesia de San Román, Toledo\n\nThe Iglesia de San Román is a church in Toledo (Castile-La Mancha Spain). The church was built in the Mudéjar style in the 13th century. In this site there was an old Visigothic structure and probably an ancient Roman building. It is currently the headquarters of the Museum of the Councils and Visigothic Culture.\n\nIt is located in one of the highest and privileged places of the city, in the second of the twelve hills that form it. There is already news of the parish in the 12th century and the church would be consecrated in 1221 by the archbishop Rodrigo Ximénez de Rada. The tradition indicates that in it was crowned king to Alfonso VIII of Castile the August 26 of 1166.\n\nThe church presents a floor plan with three naves separated by horseshoe arches with alfiz that support on pillars. Visigoth and Roman columns attached to capitels are reused from Visigothic origins in some cases, distinguishing themselves by its Corinthian leaves.\n\nThroughout the 13th century a new apse was constructed and the robust tower was built (of Toledan Mudéjar style, with its two upper bodies in double bell tower, opening the vanos in groups of two and three, and that would serve as a model for other Toledan towers); In addition to being realized the murals to the fresco in Romanesque painting figurative combined with typically Mudéjar decorations. Of great beauty, these are considered the most southern of Spain. The frescoes are divided into two areas separated by inscriptions. They emphasize the four winged evangelists and the representations of archbishops, the saints Stephen and Lawrence, angels or the Final Judgment.\n\nIn the 16th century, Alonso de Covarrubias designed the apse with Plateresque dome of coffers in the main chapel and later covered the paintings, which lost its traces until the first third of the 20th century in which these were rediscovered. It was not until the 1940s that these were recovered where possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "30537231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30537231", "title": "In the Family (2008 film)", "text": "In the Family (2008 film)\n\nIn the Family is a 2008 documentary film, produced by Kartemquin Films, about predicting breast and ovarian cancer and the choices women make when they are faced with the dangers of a possible life-threatening disease. The film's director, Joanna Rudnick, tests positive for the familial BRCA mutation that increases her chances of developing breast cancer by 60%. Faced with these odds, Rudnick must examine her choices of possibly taking her chances or possibly having her breasts and ovaries removed.\n\n\"In the Family\" takes a look at genetic testing, something that was an impossibility to previous generations, but for some women, the decision to be tested is not easy. Rudnick follows several women going through the decision to be tested, some who are cancer survivors and some that are losing that battle. The question for each woman is, \"how much do you sacrifice to survive?\"\n\nProduced by Kartemquin Films, \"In the Family\" premiered on PBS's P.O.V. on October 1, 2008. It was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Informational Long Form Programming in 2009.\n\nIn May 2009, director Joanna Rudnick contributed to the Huffington Post supporting a lawsuit made by the ACLU challenging the patent ownership of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes - the genes responsible for ovarian and breast cancer. Because of their patent control, Myriad Genetics, were being accused of limiting scientific breakthroughs that may lead to better prevention or treatment of ovarian and breast cancer. Parts of the company's patents on the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes were ruled invalid on March 29, 2010 by Judge Robert W. Sweet in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Myriad filed a notice of appeal on June 16, 2010 in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25509159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25509159", "title": "International Environment Photographers Association", "text": "International Environment Photographers Association\n\nInternational Environment Photographers Association is an organization based in Japan focusing global environment issues through photographic activities. Their goal is to make people aware about climate changes and conscious of environmental protection. They held their 1st international exhibition at Amusement Sado in Sado, Niigata, Japan from 15 to 29 November 2009.\n\nTheir philosophy is \"Beautiful, natural landscape is deeply connected to the spiritual wealth of human beings.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34081868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34081868", "title": "Judy Craymer", "text": "Judy Craymer\n\nJudy Craymer , is an English creator and producer of musical theatre who has also worked extensively in the film, television and music industries. She is also the founder of Littlestar Services Ltd. Craymer has achieved international popular success in musical theatre, in particular her work on \"Mamma Mia!\", which has been seen by more than 60 million people worldwide. Craymer was nominated for the \"Carl Foreman award for special achievement by a British director, writer or producer in their first feature film\" at the 62nd British Academy Film Awards for the film version of \"Mamma Mia!\" She has been dubbed \"the greatest showbiz impresario\" of the first decade of the 21st century and has consequently been entered in Debrett’s.\n\nBorn in London in 1957, Judy Craymer graduated from the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in 1977. She worked as a stage manager for the Haymarket Theatre in Leicester, the Old Vic Theatre, London, on the original production of \"Cats\" for Cameron Mackintosh and for the Really Useful Theatre Company. In 1982 she became Tim Rice’s production assistant and went on to be executive producer for \"Chess\".\n\nIn 1987, Craymer moved into film and television production. Her credits include \"White Mischief\", starring Charles Dance and Greta Scacchi, and \"Neville's Island\", starring Martin Clunes and Timothy Spall. Craymer also produced various live comedy specials for Channel 4.\n\nIn 1999, Craymer returned to her working partnership with Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus. She had been nurturing an idea for several years after working with them on \"Chess\" which was to become \"Mamma Mia!\" It took Craymer 10 years to persuade Andersson and Ulvaeus to give her the rights to the songs. Craymer's inspiration for the musical was the song \"The Winner Takes It All\".\n\n\"It's been said that, for a long time, the story of Mamma Mia! was the story of Judy Craymer and two blokes with beards who kept saying no,\" Craymer told the \"Daily Mail\", but they were impressed by the team Craymer had gathered around her to create the show; Phyllida Lloyd (a \"cerebral director blessed with a popular touch\") and \"highly savvy writer\" Catherine Johnson. In 1996 Craymer formed Littlestar Services Ltd with Andersson and Ulvaeus to produce \"Mamma Mia!\", which opened at the Prince Edward Theatre in London's West End on 6 April 1999 and swiftly became a huge global success.\n\n\"Mamma Mia!\" has become a global juggernaut since 1999, having now played in more than 40 countries in all six continents, and in 16 different languages. It has set the record for premiering in more cities faster than any other musical in history. The show has been nominated for numerous Olivier and Tony awards and was the first West End and Broadway musical to be performed in Chinese. \"Mamma Mia!\" is the 8th longest running show in Broadway history and one of only five musicals to have run for more than 10 years on the Great White Way. \"Mamma Mia!\" is in its 18th year in London's West End at the Novello Theatre and has grossed over $2 billion at the box office.\n\nThis success naturally attracted the interest of Hollywood, and in 2005/2006 Craymer made a deal with Universal Pictures to make a film of \"Mamma Mia!\" Unusually for Hollywood, the project was helmed by the three women who created it, with Craymer, Phyllida Lloyd and Catherine Johnson reprising their roles as producer, director and writer on the film. \"Mamma Mia! The Movie\", starring Meryl Streep, Pierce Brosnan, Colin Firth, Julie Walters and Christine Baranski, opened in 2008 and was the fifth highest-grossing film of the year. It is the highest worldwide grossing live action musical film of all time. It is also the UK's fastest and best selling DVD of all time, and in 2013, was announced as Amazon UK's best-selling DVD of all time.\n\nMore recently, Craymer also produced the flop \"Viva Forever!\", a musical based on the songs of the Spice Girls, which was written by Jennifer Saunders and opened at the Piccadilly Theatre in late 2012. The show failed to reach the levels of other work she has been fortunate to be associated with and was panned by critics.\n\nCraymer is the co-author, alongside Abba founder members Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus, of \"Mamma Mia! How Can I Resist You\", which looks in depth at the songs of Abba as well as the impact of the musical. The book was published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson in 2006. The paperback edition, released in 2008, also covers the success of \"Mamma Mia! The Movie\".\n\nHaving made a reported £90 million from \"Mamma Mia!\" Craymer has spent much of her free time in philanthropic and other pursuits. In 2010, she was awarded the \"Breast Cancer Research Foundation Humanitarian award in memory of Sandra Taub\", in recognition of her fund raising for Breast Cancer Research, having closely linked \"Mamma Mia!\" with the charity’s fundraising efforts.\n\nHer early interest in competitive showjumping (\"Horses were my obsession as a teenager and you never lose that love\") led to her becoming an ambassador for the sport in 2011. She is also an avid follower of equestrian and National Hunt racing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56666704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56666704", "title": "Legal fake", "text": "Legal fake\n\nLegal Fake is a recent phenomenon in the fashion industry, whereby a third company precedes the original brand company in the registration of the trademark, running its own business, from production to sales, in another country. By exploiting the products, creativity, marketing and advertising strategies of the original brand, the company misleads consumers, who are not aware of the fake goods. Thus, its typical traits lay upon the question of intellectual property, trademark registration laws among different countries, advertising strategies and consumer behaviour.\n\nLegal fake is not to be confused with counterfeit. Its aim is not to replicate the original products, but to create a new business parallel to that of the original brand, proposing itself as an authentic brand. Compared to counterfeit products, legal fakes exploit brands that are well-known only to specific groups of people.\nThe term legal fake was first mentioned after the important case between the famous streetwear apparel American company CHAPTER 4 D.B.A. Supreme in New York and the Italian company TRADE DIRECT Srl in Barletta, of which both Italian online magazines such as Nss Magazine. and Outpump and the American Highsnobiety and Hypebeast have discussed about. But most important, it is the recent judgments of the Tribunale di Milano that have further clarified and defined what legal fake is.\nSupreme Italia was brought to court in 2016 by Supreme New York after it realised that they had been robbed of their trademark and that their brand image had been damaged. In fact, the notoriety reached by the Italian brand, which disguised as the original one, came to the point that it managed to enter the 89th edition of the most important International event for menswear Pitti Uomo in 2016 becoming popular among a wider range of consumers to which it wanted to reach compared to the original one.\n\nThe existence of a ‘parallel’ Supreme brand was possible due to an ambiguity in the trademark registration process in Italy. In fact, Trade Direct Srl filed its application at the UIBM (Italian Patent and Trademark Office) on 18 November 2015 and started producing and selling its products changing little of the original box logo, which was simply made bigger. What emerged from the legal case would be then stated in the final judgment, and thus, that Supreme NY had already registered its trademark on 9 October 2015 before Supreme Italia. \nNo new creative elements were added to the legal fake version, as stated by the first judgment from the Tribunale di Milano of 26 January 2017, according to which the Italian company repeatedly used the same brand, advertising images and graphics of CHAPTER 4.\nThough, unlike Supreme NY, Supreme Italia aimed at targeting a wider range of consumers by looking for more shops and retailers throughout Italy for the products distribution. This process brought Supreme Italia into the spotlight, reaching Supreme NY’s attention and leading to the legal case.\nAfter the second judgment of 20 April 2017, the final judgment of 26 January 2018 stated the ‘parasitic’ unfair competition behavior of Trade Direct Srl and its consequences: 120,000 Supreme Italia items have to be withdrawn from the market and the company is to pay € 5,500.00 to Supreme NY for fees and legal expenses. Furthermore, the legal fake website www.supremeitalia.com can no longer be found.\nA particular mention is A.GI.EMME Srl as one of the main Supreme Italia resellers, which was also brought to court and cited in the final judgment. Indeed, it no longer sells the products nor offers them on its website.\n\nTrade Direct Srl lawsuit falls within the field of unfair competition for the reasons listed in art. no. 2598 of the Italian Civil Code. This one concerns the protection of distinctive signs and patent rights and provides that is subject to the provision \"“anyone who engages in acts of unfair competition:\"\n\nSupreme NY has won the court case also thanks to the protection provided by the Madrid Protocol, which establishes the International Bureau of Intellectual Property, where a company from a specific country can register its trademark at, whose protection is ensured for goods or services sold in all the other countries party to the Agreement.\n\nBeing part of the Agreement does not imply that every single country is not able to legislate at national level. Indeed, just like Italy, the U.S. presents its own laws on the field which can be found in Title 15 Chapter 22 on Trademarks of the U.S Code.\n\nSupreme case is not the only one, further brands have undergone the same process, i.e. Boy London, Pyrex Vision and Kith NYC. In all these cases both the brand name and logo, the concept and the items themselves were copied from the original company and sold in another country as if they were the original items, however no legal actions have yet been taken.\nThe original Boy London brand was founded by Stephane Raynor in the UK in 1976. The Italian company Dream Project Spa in Barletta, Italy, has registered the new trademark with the name Boy London Italia copying the brand image while changing little of its logo. Boy London Italia items are available online on the following website https://boy-london.it/. Boy London Italia is probably one of the most successful case of legal fake among young people thanks to the efficient influencers strategy on social media. The official website promotes its items with Italian celebrities and fashion bloggers and football players (https://boy-london.it/friends).\nThe original Pyrex Vision brand was first created in 2013 in Chicago by streetwear stylist Virgil Abloh. He started the brand as garments for young people, taking inspiration from common high school uniforms from Champion and adding numbers and the Pyrex logo on them so that everybody could feel part of a team. The brand became famous thanks to VIPs such as Kanye West wearing them which helped the brand become a ‘hype’ phenomenon. Pyrex Vision is no longer available as only one collection was produced. However, Italian garments producer Moda Effe Srl in Barletta, Italy, still sells the same items with the trademark Pyrex Original.\nKith NYC has undergone the same process for Pyrex Vision and Boy London, having its brand registered in Italy by Nifra Snc in Barletta under Kith Official\nLegal fakes are possible because they take advantage of the ‘uninformed’ consumer who can be easily deceived and influenced by the latest trends promoted through celebrities endorsement and social networks or digital platforms.\nIt’s no coincidence that this phenomenon makes use of celebrities endorsement. Indeed, it is now among the most widely used communication strategies which have recently proved to be efficient and able to reach the goal of credibility among consumers. \nLegal fakes strategy exploits brands fame making their products more easily available on the market and at lower prices unlike the original companies which are niche brands selling limited edition items.\nA further key point of legal fake related to consumers’ deceit is cybersquatting. This implies the creation of a new website using an almost identical internet domain while adding words such as ‘official’ or ‘original’ which make consumers trust the brand, not knowing it is fake. An example of this is the following website for Pyrex https://www.pyrexoriginal.com/.\n\nThe question of how consumers can protect themselves from counterfeit and being deceived needs to be mentioned. Information and a corresponding compensation possibility to counterfeit are key points that consumers need to be aware of.\nThe United Nations General Assembly has itself worked on this issue and provides a list of eight principles.\nAfter J.F. Kennedy employed the term ‘consumer rights’ in his address to the U.S. Congress in 1962, it has been extended to issues dealt by supranational organisations such as the European Union and the United Nations. The latter has adopted in 1985 a set of eight consumer rights as guidelines for consumer protection.\nThe three most relevant for the topic of legal fake are the following:\n"}
{"id": "4142501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4142501", "title": "Limes Arabicus", "text": "Limes Arabicus\n\nThe Limes Arabicus was a desert frontier of the Roman Empire, mostly in the province of Arabia Petraea. It ran northeast from the Gulf of Aqaba for about at its greatest extent, reaching northern Syria and forming part of the wider Roman \"limes\" system. It had several forts and watchtowers.\n\nThe reason of this defensive \"limes\" was to protect the Roman province of Arabia from attacks of the barbarian tribes of the Arabian desert. The main purpose of the \"Limes Arabicus\" is disputed; it may have been used both to defend from Arab raids and to protect the commercial lines from robbers.\n\nNext to the Limes Arabicus Emperor Trajan built a major road, the Via Nova Traiana, from Bosra to Aila on the Red Sea, a distance of . Built between 111 and 114 AD, its primary purpose may have been to provide efficient transportation for troop movements and government officials as well as facilitating and protecting trade caravans emerging from the Arabian Peninsula. It was completed under Emperor Hadrian.\n\nDuring the Severan dynasty (AD 193–235), the Romans strengthened their defences on the Arabian frontier. They constructed several castra (forts) at the northwest end of the Wadi Sirhan, and improved the roads. One important fort was Qasr Azraq, another was at Humeima (Latin: Auara), from the late 2nd C AD, on the Via Nova from Petra to Aila, where up to 500 auxiliary troops could have resided. It was probably abandoned in the fourth century.\nEmperor Diocletian partitioned the old province of Arabia by transferring the southern region to the province of Palaestina. Later in the 4th century, Palaestina was made into three provinces, and the southern one was eventually called \"Palaestina Tertia\". Each province was administered by a praeses with civil authority and a dux with military authority.\n\nDiocletian engaged in a major military expansion in the region, building a number of castella, watchtowers, and fortresses along the fringe of the desert just east of the Via Nova. This line of defence extended from south of Damascus to Wadi al-Hasa. The region from Wadi Mujib to Wadi al-Hasa contained four castella and a legionary camp. The frontier south of Wadi al-Hasa, which extended to the Red Sea at Aila (Aqaba), may have been called the \"Limes Palaestina\". In this region, ten castella and a legionary camp have been identified. The term may have referred to a series of fortifications and roads in the northern Negev, running from Rafah on the Mediterranean to the Dead Sea, or to the region under the military control of the \"dux Palaestinae\", the military governor of the Palaestinian provinces.\n\nThere were castra every with the purpose to create a line of protection and control: in the south there was the legionary fortress at Adrou (Udruh), just east of Petra. It probably housed the Legio VI Ferrata, which was moved from Lajjun (in modern-day Israel) by Diocletian. It is similar to Betthorus (al-Lajjun in modern-day Jordan) in size () and design, and is in the plain of Moab, south of Wadi Mujib . Alistair Killick, who excavated the site, dates it to the early 2nd century, but Parker suggests a date in the late 3rd or early 4th century.\n\nA legionary camp may have also existed at Aila (modern Aqaba), which has been excavated by Parker since 1994. The city was located at the north end of the Gulf of Aqaba where it was a centre of sea traffic. Several land routes also intersected here. Legio X Fretensis, originally stationed in Jerusalem, was transferred here to the terminus of the Via Nova. So far, a stone curtain wall and projecting tower have been identified, but it is uncertain whether they were part of the city wall of Aila or the fortress. The evidence suggests the fort was constructed in the late 4th or early 5th century.\n\nTroops were progressively withdrawn from the \"Limes Arabicus\" in the first half of the 6th century and replaced with native Arab \"foederati\", chiefly the Ghassanids. After the Muslim Arab conquest, the \"Limes Arabicus\" was largely left to disappear, though some fortifications were used and reinforced in the following centuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41938833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41938833", "title": "LoliRock", "text": "LoliRock\n\nLoliRock is a French animated television series produced by Marathon Media and Zodiak Kids. It was created by Jean Louis-Vandestoc and written by Madellaine Paxson. It first aired in France on 18 October 2014 on France 3, and has expanded to television channels in Europe. It has also been licensed in United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Australia, with an English dub released to Netflix on 1 May 2016.\n\nIris is a teenage girl who likes to sing and help others. However, when she sings, strange events happen. Encouraged by her best friend Nathaniel, Iris auditions for a girl rock band, but her power destroys the room and she is later attacked by two strangers. The judges at the audition, Talia and Auriana, come to help her, and they explain to her that she is actually a princess with magical powers who must save her kingdom of Ephedia from the clutches of Gramorr, who has taken over. The only way to save it is to master her powers and to find the Oracle Gems of the Royal Crown of Ephedia, which are scattered across the Earth. Over the course of the series, the three girls try to live as both ordinary teenagers as well as rock stars of the all-girl band \"LoliRock\", while training Iris in secret and gathering the gems. But when Gramorr sends twin siblings Praxina and Mephisto to fight them and summon monsters to cause chaos, the girls must work together as magical girl warrior princesses.\n\nIn season 2, the three girls are joined by Ephedian girls Carissa and Lyna, who also transform into warrior princesses, but are not part of the band. The girls continue gathering Oracle Gems while helping those in need, but Gramorr and the evil twins continue to get stronger as well. When the last oracle gem is collected, Iris faces the reality of having to say goodbye to Nathaniel and returning to Ephedia, but when Gramorr claims the final gem and is freed, the girls work together to face him in one last battle.\n\n\n\nJean-Louis Vandestoc drew inspiration for \"LoliRock\" from watching anime in his childhood that was broadcast on the French channels, including \"Sherlock Hound\", \"Space Adventure Cobra\", \"The Mysterious Cities of Gold\" and \"Dragon Ball\", but his most influential title he watched was \"Magical Princess Minky Momo\". He wrote \"I loved the very core of it: a child transforming into an adult, helping people and making good deeds, the nice chara design, and finally the tone of the show: it could be funny and light, but also dramatic and tearful at other times. My soul was marked forever.\" After working on French cartoons \"Monster Buster Club\" and \"Rekkit Rabbit\" he wanted to make a magical girl show. He chose \"Sailor Moon\" and \"Pretty Cure\" as references for the magical girl part, and \"Jem and the Holograms\" for the music career part.\n\nThe producers at Marathon Media asked designers to draw Iris for a magical girl project as a teenage alien princess with ice/crystal powers. Character designer Bertrand Todesco drew inspiration from Betty Autier, a French fashion blogger of \"le blog de betty\". She had dark hair and straight bangs, but Todesco figured the producers wanted a blonde girl for a lead, so he went with the look of Jenny Humphrey of the TV series \"Gossip Girl\", portrayed by Taylor Momsen. The producers also wanted the girls' irises to be star-shaped. Autier's appearance as well as her wardrobe was retained for Talia.\n\nFollowing the initial picture, Todesco needed to design a princess/rockstar outfit, of which he chose a green dress worn by Blake Lively. The colour was changed to pink as green was not suitable for merchandising. Todeco added a magical pet creature in the custom of \"Sailor Moon\", which would later become Amaru. He designed in the hair streaks for when the girls were rock stars, and dresses that weren't so frilly that they would be complicated to draw.\n\nIn designing Talia and the then-named Aurora, Todesco originally started with a black girl and an Asian girl with typical hairstyles, but later changed his mind. He then found inspirations from other \"Gossip Girl\" characters as well as actresses Amber Stevens West and Ariana Grande, the latter of whom was how she acted in the teen sitcom \"Victorious\" rather than her current pop singer image. He also referenced Keri Hilson and Alicia Keys. \"Victorious\" was also the inspiration for some of the key visuals he used in promoting the series to get funding.\n\nEarly promotions of the series pictured the antagonist named Gromar to be an evil uncle of Iris who imprisoned the king and queen, and that he sent his two evil twin nephews to Earth to thwart Lolirock and take the gems. Paxson said that they abandoned the idea as it would have made him more of a stereotype. Todesco originally conceived of antagonists Praxina and Mephisto to have guitar playing sound powers that would counter the girls' singing voice powers but the idea was abandoned. After several iterations, Praxina's final design was approved where she would have a butterfly brooch and motif, while Mephisto's was approved later, after director Jean-Louis had suggested he have a snake motif and a half-covered face. Eventually Gramorr would have the covered face,\n\nThe design for the crystal magic circles and related animation was first done in 2D based off some reference pictures. Different colours and symbols were assigned to each character. It was later created in CGI. Animation tools used include Toon Boom Harmony, Adobe After Effects, and Blender.\n\nLyna and Carissa were created in response to a request from the producers when the writing for season 1 was nearing completion. The request was to add two new princesses to increase the member count to five. However, the LoliRock developers thought they already had too many characters so they made Lyna and Carissa supporting characters that were \"outside the main gang but always ready and willing to help when needed\". The two girls' transformations resemble Sailor Uranus and Sailor Neptune. The designers considered making one of the two girls look Asian to balance out the overall group's look; they applied the look to both girls, and chose Lyna. There was also a concern that Carissa might be confused with Auriana as the show's redhead, they decided to go with giving her an Irish redhead theme anyway.\n\n\"LoliRock\" head writer Madellaine Paxson, who had worked on children's shows \"Making Fiends\", \"Power Rangers RPM\" as well as the horror film \"Blood Punch\", described the themes of the show as: friendship and love, magic, singing / music, and good vs. evil. She said the hardest part in writing an episode is the beginning and also in integrating the themes along with a story with a person that needs help. Her favourite scenes from the show were where the princesses are together doing ordinary teenage girl things as they had opportunities for comedy. She summarised the show as having something for everybody, very girly, but good action too. In the press release, Zodiak Kids describe the show as having a \"cast of characters that are aspirational role models for a generation of children for whom justice has become a core value\". Jean-Louis Vandestoc chose a band concept for the series as it was different from his other shows which involved characters that went to school and then saved the world. The school part was replaced by the girls training or rehearsing for the concert. The developers later commented in their production blog FAQ that Iris was still attending school and that the episodes aren't all during summer vacation.\n\nAccording to posts on the production Tumblr, \"LoliRock\" is classified as somewhere between a script-driven and storyboard-driven show. They started with a full script and then recorded lines with scratch voices or final voices, as re-recording after storyboarding would be costlier. The storyboard is then worked on, and some of the storyboard artists and supervisor adding and changing things they felt were important such as with the kiss scene in the Shanila episode and the Iris becoming a dark princess. Storyboard stage also included fixes for continuity and plot holes.\n\nThe music score was composed and produced by Norbert \"Yellowshark\" Gilbert, with about 600 tracks over the course of the 52 26-minute episodes. Five recurring songs (including the theme song) were recorded for each season. Due to limited resources in production, the team posted that Iris would be the only one singing on those songs, so they recorded Yasmin Shah in English and then developed the music videos. After realising that it would be unnatural for the other girls to not sing, they designed Iris to have a microphone while the others would just sing along. They considered recording singing for Talia and Auriana but were constrained by budget. Cassandre Berger provided the singing on the French dub. The voices were then mixed. As the dialogue was done later, the voice actors only sang on the incidental bits such as rehearsals.\n\nThe episodes were written and dubbed in English first and then adapted into French. For season 1, the English voices were recorded at Vida Spark Productions in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, while the French voices were recorded at Lylo studios in Paris, France.\n\nZodiak Media announced \"LoliRock\" in April 2013 at the MIPTV event in Cannes, France. Early promotions included the idea of princesses with magical singing voices. The demographic target audience is girls ages 6 to 12, and the group has partnered with France Televisions and Disney Channel France. Marathon Media CEO Vincent Chalvron-Demersay and general manager David Michel said that \"LoliRock is a fresh, contemporary take on what it is to be a girl today, infused with music and magical adventures and the all-important notion of justice in today's teenage world. It's a perfect companion piece to \"Totally Spies!\", which has been so successful in this same space.\" In comparing the promotion of the show to that of \"Totally Spies!\", Zodiak senior vice-president Patricia de Wilde said that Zodiak made sure the premise was made clear for the new show.\n\nThe five songs were publicised as music videos on YouTube. Plans were also made to create live-action \"LoliRock\" bands in various markets, such as Super TV's contest held online and among major cities in Italy. A website was launched with videos, games, and message boards. Promotional toys were also offered at Quick restaurants as well as McDonald's. An app was developed for the music which Zodiak senior vice-president Patricia de Wilde said was a \"sort of cross between K-Pop and Katy Perry.\"\n\nThe show premiered on France 3 on 18 October 2014. running for 13 episodes until March 2015. On 26 January 2016, Zodiak Kids published an article officially announcing that BatteryPOP had acquired AVOD (streaming) rights to LoliRock for one year.\n\nOn 1 April, France Televisions announced the release of episodes on France 4, and Disney France. Zodiak also reported that Italy would launch LoliRock on De Agostini Editore's Super! DTT channel. France 4 began broadcasting the 13 episodes on 4 April 2016. On 1 May, the first season of the series was released on Netflix, in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nThe \"LoliRock\" producers pre-released the four episodes of season 2 on YouTube on December 2016. Netflix released the English dub of the season 2 episodes on 5 January 2017. It was broadcast on France 4 in February with two episodes per weekday.\n\nElla Anders of BSC Kids wrote that \"LoliRock\" \"plays it clear as a magical girl series and even nods other iconic shows in the genera\" such as \"Pretty Cure\" and \"Sailor Moon\", but that it is \"grand in its own right and should be held up as a great magical girl series\". She liked the diverse cast, plot, humor and background story, the last of which she had not seen since \"\", and that it was a type of show she would have loved growing up.\n\nHeather Newman of \"Forbes\" magazine described the series as \"A French animated series about an impossibly thin, stylish, magical girl who sings.\"\n\nWhen asked whether \"LoliRock\" would have a cross-over episode with French superhero show \"\" from Zagtoon, Thomas Astruc, who was the creator and director on \"Miraculous\" and a storyboarder on \"LoliRock\", said it was unlikely given they are from two different production companies, but that the animation community is small and that both companies share the same love of animation. He has posted about the two being cousin shows.\n\nA \"LoliRock\" video game, available on iOS and Android, was released by Bulkypix in 2014. The game lets players sing to the songs featured on the show, record performances, and customise a sound studio and pick the girls' outfits.\n\nZodiak has also worked a deal with publishing company Hachette Jeunesse to create novels, activity books, stationery, and e-books.\n\n"}
{"id": "47304362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47304362", "title": "Mathematical sculpture", "text": "Mathematical sculpture\n\nA mathematical sculpture is a sculpture which uses mathematics as an essential conception. Helaman Ferguson, George W. Hart, Bathsheba Grossman, Peter Forakis and Jacobus Verhoeff are well-known mathematical sculptors.\n"}
{"id": "967378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967378", "title": "Max Stern (gallery owner)", "text": "Max Stern (gallery owner)\n\nMax Stern (1904-1987) was a German-Canadian arts benefactor, art historian, and owner of Montreal's landmark Dominion Gallery (in French, \"Galerie Dominion\").\n\nMax Stern was born in Mönchen-Gladbach, Germany, in April 1904. His father, Julius Stern, was a German-born Jew who worked in the textile industry, and later went into business as an art dealer. Before Max was born, his father was a prestigious art collector, and by World War I, had become one of the most prominent gallery owners in Düsseldorf. For this reason, Max led a privileged childhood, immersed in Germanic culture. He had his family's full support in pursuing his doctoral studies in art history. He studied in Cologne, Berlin, Vienna and Paris, and earned his doctorate from the University of Bonn in 1928. He then decided to become the Stern Gallery manager. His father died in 1934 and Max became the new gallery owner.\n\nStern's ambitions grew once he became gallery owner. He hoped to one day operate galleries in Düsseldorf, London and New York City. Eventually with the help of his sister and the Dutch art historian Cornelius van de Wetering, Stern managed to open a gallery in London. The official opening occurred in 1935.\n\nUnfortunately, Stern's future plans were disrupted with the rise of Nazism in Germany. He received notification from the Reich Chamber of Fine Arts that he had lost his professional accreditation, and was given four weeks to either sell or dissolve all holdings within the Galerie Stern. He appealed the mandate, while trying to find a suitable Aryan citizen to assume ownership. While the gallery was temporarily \"Aryan\", Stern planned to open another outside Germany and wait out the Third Reich. To achieve these means, he chose Dutch art historian Nathan Katz.\n\nUnfortunately, the Nazi Chamber of Fine Arts decided that the gallery was too important to fall into the hands of a foreigner, and would consider no future deals. In September 1937, Stern was given 17 days to close his business. The reason for this forced closure was that all Jewish citizens had been forbidden from selling art. In November, Stern was forced to auction off a large segment of the Stern Gallery by order of the Nazi government. These artworks were sold in one of Germany's oldest auction houses, Kunsthaus Lempertz. They went on the block by their lot number, Auktion 392. Not all pieces were sold, and Stern placed those that remained in storage with shipping agent Josef Roggendorf. Roggendorf held the artwork close to the Düsseldorf gallery until it was all confiscated by the National Socialist government.\n\nStern then spent several years trying to track down the 28 confiscated paintings. He created an advertisement in the German art magazine \"Die Weltkunst\", offering a reward for any information pertaining to the paintings' locations. Recovering the paintings proved to be extremely difficult. \"Musical Party\" by Dirck Hals and \"Landscape with Figures\" by Salomon van Ruysdael were eventually recovered with help from the Canadian government after the war had ended. \"Last Judgment\" by Hieronymus Bosch was returned in 1954. Other works were never found.\n\nStern fled Germany in December, 1937, reportedly carrying nothing but a small suitcase. He decided to join his sister at the gallery in London. Their plans to develop further were interrupted a few years later once the war began. Stern was interred as an enemy alien in a refugee camp on the Isle of Man for two years. The British government then allowed him to immigrate to Canada. Stern sailed on the Polish liner \"Sobiski\", but was unable to get his money and belongings out of Britain. He then spent two years in internment camps in New Brunswick and Quebec. He was given refugee status upon his arrival. He took steps to be exempted from this status, and made contact with the man who ran the Canadian Refugee Organization, William Birks, who immediately vouched for Stern.\n\nBecause of Stern's academic background and art dealing experience, he was named director of the Dominion Gallery of Fine Art. In January 1947, Stern and his wife became the sole proprietors of Gallery Dominion. He met his wife at the Canadian Refugee organization. She was a Swedish woman named Iris Westerberg. Together, they made the gallery a focal point for the distribution of living art by Canadian artists. Both were known for promoting young and unknown Canadian art talents.\n\n1944 was an especially important year for Stern's promotion of Canadian art. During this year, he held separate exhibitions featuring art by four members of the Group of Seven and Emily Carr.\n\nStern made many important contributions towards Canadian art culture. In the 1940s he provided a means for young Canadian artists to paint on a full-time basis by establishing a contract system. In this system, monthly payments are made to the artist in exchange for an agreed number of works. This method has since been used successfully in France, England and the United States.\n\nIn 1950, Stern moved the Dominion Gallery to a three-story building in a different area of Montreal. This new building allowed for 14 exhibition rooms and an apartment on the upper level where Stern and his wife would live.\n\nMax Stern is remembered as an icon within the art society worldwide. Upon leaving Europe, Stern raised the level of art appreciation in Canada. He began donating to Canadian institutions in the mid-1950s, and gave generously to several museums across Canada. He was especially generous to Montreal institutions, donating over 166 works.\n\nTrue to his occupation until the very end, Stern died on a business trip in Paris. For his contributions he received countless acknowledgements and awards, including an honorary doctorate from Concordia University in 1985. The gallery continued to operate for more than a decade after Stern's death, closing in December 2000. \nThe Max Stern Art Restitution Project was jointly created by the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, McGill University, Concordia University and the Holocaust Claims Processing Office in New York. The project's initiative has been to locate and recover works from the original Stern collection that were lost during the 1930s. The collection held an estimated 400 pieces in total. Sadly, less than twenty of these paintings have been recovered to date. A long and arduous project, efforts are still being made to recover all Stern pieces lost under the Nazi regime.\n\nIn 2017 a scheduled exhibition in Dusseldorf about Stern and the Restitution Project was abruptly cancelled due to local opposition, leading to intense controversy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312438", "title": "Musica (sculpture)", "text": "Musica (sculpture)\n\nMusica is a bronze statue that sits upon a grassy knoll at the center of a traffic rotary where the confluence of Division Street and 16th Avenue North happens, known as the Music Row Roundabout or Buddy Killen Circle.\n\nIt is located directly across from Owen Bradley Park in the Music Row district of Nashville, Tennessee. It was built as part of an urban renewal project for the Music Row neighborhood and unveiled in 2003.\n\n\"Musica\" is Alan LeQuire's largest sculpture commission to date, and currently the largest sculpture group in the United States. It features nine nude figures, male and female, dancing in a circular composition approximately 38 feet (11.5 m) tall. There are five figures which spring forth from the base. Four more rise up in the center floating above the others. The pinnacle of the statue is a female holding a tambourine. The scale of each figure is fourteen to fifteen feet, or more than twice life-size. The dancers and part of the base are cast in bronze. The other part of the base is composed of massive natural limestone boulders, which are prevalent in the Nashville area.\n\nMuch of the work on the statue was actually done at a foundry in Lander, Wyoming, with the pieces transported and assembled onsite. It weighs approximately 10 tons.\n\nLeQuire writes of his work:\n\nDance is the physical expression of music and the piece is intended to convey that feeling to the viewer in a composition which is simple, exuberant and celebratory. The theme of the sculpture is music, because of the historical and economic significance of the site. This is the heart of Music Row, the area and the artistic activity for which Nashville is best known. The sculpture conveys the importance of music to Nashville, past, present and future, and represents all forms of music without reference to any one form or style. It is meant to provide a visual icon for the area and for the city as a whole. The theme is music, but the sculpture represents artistic creativity itself. An artistic idea often seems to miraculously and spontaneously burst forth. This is what happens in the sculpture, and the title \"Musica\" suggests this since it refers to all the 'arts of the muses.'\n\nHe also intended for the work to make a statement about Multiculturalism/diversity and racial harmony.\n\nJust as I wanted all different kinds of music included, not just country, I always wanted it to be a reflection of our culture the way it is...this is a multicultural city with an amazing number of ethnicities in it.\n\nUsing live models, whose facial and bodily features he depicted, LeQuire created two Caucasian women and one Caucasian man; an African-American man and woman; one Asian-American woman; a Native American man; and a Hispanic man and woman.\n\nThe $1.1-million project, funded by local arts patrons who gave on the condition of anonymity, is being offered as a gift to the city to highlight that very point. Such a permanent tribute, since approved by the Metropolitan Nashville Arts Commission and Metro Council, is what project backers sought originally when they approached LeQuire several years back. The artist is quoted as saying:\n\nThey wanted to do something lasting for that area, which is such a significant place in the history and future of Nashville. Plus, everyone felt that Music Row, as important as it has been, never had a sort of identifying feature. That was the whole reason for the roundabout itself, and those who created it always imagined a monument that went in the center.\n\nThe work was controversial due to its depiction of nudity, although according to LeQuire the work is entirely tasteful and not at all sexualized.\n\nOne television commentator, Larry Brinton, referred to the statue constantly as \"the naked statue\" after its unveiling. Others expressed even stronger disapproval. \"It seems quite hypocritical to me that, in a nation like ours, naked statues paid for by private money can be displayed on public land but a copy of the Ten Commandments paid for by private funds could not,\" said Jerry Sutton, former pastor of the Two Rivers Baptist Church in Nashville. Sutton and others called unsuccessfully for removal of the statue from public view.\n\nProponents of the statue were equally vehement in its defense. Columnist Gail Kerr of \"The Tennessean\" wrote, \"It's art. But naked art, predictably, has some people all upset. I'm not sure why really. We've already got naked statues.\" She urged bemused indifference to the current controversy. \"If you have such a peculiar fetish for bronze that fondling \"Musica\"'s tambourine will be simply irresistible, just steer clear of the roundabout. Otherwise, don't get your toga in a wad.\"\n\nOn Saint Patrick's Day, 2010, a local music group, the Willis Clan, and a group of friends, clothed the statues in oversized Celtic kilts and blouses they had made for the event, in what one local news source described as an \"epic\" prank. 2011 was the second year the ritual was performed. Unfortunately the wind that day was particularly violent; the statues had to be reclothed multiple times to keep from exposing anything explicit. The sculpture occasionally adorns other trinkets, such as T-shirts supporting the Nashville Predators during playoff runs, as well as runners' bibs during the Country Music Marathon.\n\n"}
{"id": "9453535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9453535", "title": "Nina Paley", "text": "Nina Paley\n\nNina Paley (born May 3, 1968) is an American cartoonist, animator and free culture activist. She was the artist and often the writer of the comic strips \"Nina's Adventures\" and \"Fluff\", but most of her recent work has been in animation. She is perhaps best known for creating the animated feature film \"Sita Sings the Blues\", loosely based on the \"Ramayana\", with parallels to her personal life. In 2018, she completed her second animated feature, \"Seder-Masochism\", a retelling of The Book of Exodus as patriarchy emerging from goddess worship.\n\nPaley distributes much of her work, including \"Nina’s Adventures\", \"Fluff\", and all the original work in \"Sita Sings The Blues\", under a copyleft licence.\n\nPaley was born in Urbana, Illinois, the daughter of Jean (Passovoy) and Hiram Paley. Her family was Jewish. Her father was a mathematics professor at the University of Illinois and was mayor of Urbana for a term in the early 1970s.\n\nShe attended local elementary and high schools, graduating from University High School in 1986. She illustrated a \"History of the North Pole\" comic in collaboration with University High School history teacher Chris Butler, and attended the University of Illinois, studying art for two years before dropping out. While in college, her comic \"Joyride\" ran in \"The Daily Illini\" newspaper.\n\nHer first animation was made when she was 13; it was recorded on Super-8 reels. Her first animation as an adult was the short story \"Follow your Bliss\". Her second clay animation, \"I Heart My Cat\", was shot on a Krasnogorsk camera. These two, along with \"Cancer\", were found on VHS with the description \"NINA PALEY DEMO REEL 1998\". In 2012, Paley decided to publish them under Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike license.\n\nIn 1988, Paley moved to Santa Cruz, California, and began to write and draw the strip \"Nina's Adventures\". In 1991, she illustrated \"The Santa Cruz Haggadah\" and moved to San Francisco. In 1995, she began to draw the more mainstream \"Fluff\", a comic strip about a cat, which enjoyed a modest success in syndication. In 1998, she also began to experiment with animation.\n\nIn 1999, she made the world's first cameraless IMAX film, \"Pandorama\", a short Modernist film which was shown widely at major film festivals in 35 mm form during 2000 and 2001. In 70 mm form, it also ran for about a year as a short feature at Berlin Cinestar and has been shown at IMAX theaters elsewhere.\n\nIn 2002, she wrote and directed \"Fetch!\", a humorous short cartoon feature based on a variety of optical illusions, which has enjoyed popularity ever since.\n\nBeginning in 2002, Paley focused her work on the controversial subject of population growth. The most notable entry she produced on this subject was \"The Stork\", in which the natural environment is bombed to destruction by storks dropping bundled babies. The film is a compact expression of the conflict between increasing human population and the ecosystem in which it must live. The 3½ minute film was a considerable success at festivals and resulted in an invitation to the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nDuring this period of this time, Paley also contributed several comic strips for the Voluntary Human Extinction Movement, of which she is a member and occasional spokesperson. Her work for the group still remains on their official website.\n\nEarly in 2010, Paley started drawing a three-panel comic strip called \"Mimi & Eunice\". She is distributing it on the web using a copyleft license.\n\nIn 2012, Paley posted an animation to Vimeo titled \"This Land Is Mine\" depicting the Middle East conflicts over history; it was named a Staff Pick.\n\nBetween projects, Paley has worked as a freelance director at Duck Studios in Los Angeles. She has also taught in the Design and Technology section of Parsons, part of The New School.\n\nAs of 2018, Paley has created two animated feature films.\n\nIn 2002, Paley moved to Trivandrum, India, where her husband had taken a job. While she was visiting New York City on business concerning her third comic strip, \"The Hots\", her husband terminated their marriage. Unable to return to either Trivandrum or San Francisco, she moved to Brooklyn, New York. Her personal crisis caused her to see more deeply into the \"Ramayana\", the Indian epic, which she had encountered in India, and motivated her to produce a short animation which combines an episode from the \"Ramayana\" with a torch song recorded in 1929 by Annette Hanshaw, \"Mean To Me\". Paley later added episodes and other material to the work, which is now called \"Sita Sings the Blues\". Many of the episodes appeared in animation festivals. She expanded it into a feature-length treatment of the \"Ramayana\" focused on Rama's wife, Sita, using a variety of animation styles and techniques.\n\nThe finished work premiered at the Berlin International Film Festival on February 11, 2008 and had its North American premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 25, 2008. The film was screened at more than 150 film festivals globally and was broadcast on PBS in New York City. For her work on \"Sita Sings the Blues\", Paley was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award and garnered more than 35 international awards, including the top award at Annecy in 2008. \"The New York Times\" review of \"Sita\" described it as \"ambitious and visually loaded\" and the film was named a NYT Critic's Pick.\n\nIn 2011 she began work on a project called \"Seder-Masochism\", an unorthodox animated film about The Exodus, showing the rise of patriarchy and the fall of goddess worship. Early support was obtained for the project through a crowd-funding campaign on Kickstarter. In June 2018, after having worked sporadically on the film for six years, \"Seder-Masochism\" premiered at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival in France. Reviewers compared Paley's style to Monty Python, and praised the film's irreverent humor. In Poland, the film was screened at the ANIMATOR film festival where it was chosen by the audience as the festival's best feature-length animated film.\n\nBecause of obstacles in clearing the rights to Hanshaw's recordings for the \"Sita Sings the Blues\", Paley took active part in the free culture movement.\n\nSince 2009 she is an artist-in-residence at the non-profit organization QuestionCopyright.org, which includes running the projects \"Minute Memes\" and the \"Sita Distribution Project\". \"Minute Memes\" is a series of short (\"one-minute\") video \"memes\" made by Paley about copyright restrictions and artistic freedom. She wrote and performed the song \"Copying Isn't Theft\" meant to be freely remixed by other people, with the animated clip issued as Minute Meme #1. Subsequent animations in this series are \"All Creative Work Is Derivative\", EFF Tribute and \"Credit is Due: The Attribution Song\". She also wrote \"Understanding Free Content\", an illustrated guide to the idea of free content.\n\nIn 2010 she started a new comic strip \"Mimi & Eunice\", highlighting intellectual property problems and paradoxes.\n\nShe has published much of her work, including \"Nina’s Adventures\", \"Fluff\", and all original work in \"Sita Sings The Blues\", under a copyleft licence. The website for \"Sita Sings the Blues\" includes a wiki where its fans contributed translated subtitles for the DVD of the film. On January 18, 2013, Paley posted on her blog that the copyright license for \"Sita Sings The Blues\" was being switched from CC-BY-SA to CC-0, thus placing the work into the public domain.\n\nIn 2012 she was a special guest at the international CopyCamp conference in Warsaw.\n\nPaley won a Public Knowledge IP3 award in 2010 \"for her work in intellectual property\".\n\nIn 2015, when Paley posted her views about trans-women such as Caitlyn Jenner, some of her friends called her \"transphobic\". This prompted Paley to read about trans-exclusionary radical feminism (TERF), and to realize that she was a \"gender-critical radical feminist\" who argues against the social constructs that lead to a pattern of male violence.\n\nThough of Jewish ancestry, Paley is an atheist as was her father. She has been especially critical of Judaism and considers it a form of indoctrination and exploitation.\n\nPaley is openly childfree, a position she actively promotes and encourages others to adopt.\n\nIn 2011, she began making art quilts, some of which she has featured on her official blog. The first public exhibition of her quilts was held in June 2013 in central Illinois.\n\n\n\nArchives:\n"}
{"id": "31170842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31170842", "title": "Omi International Arts Center", "text": "Omi International Arts Center\n\nArt Omi (previously Omi International Arts Center) is a nonprofit international arts organization located in Columbia County in Ghent, New York. It was founded in 1992 by Francis J. Greenburger, a New York real estate developer and literary agent, who serves as chairman of Art Omi, Inc., the residency's parent foundation. The organization takes its name from Omi, a hamlet in the Hudson River Valley two and a half hours from New York City.\n\nArt Omi offers five distinct residency programs: the Art Omi: Artists Residency for visual artists for three weeks in July; the Art Omi: Writers Residency for writers of fiction and non-fiction, critics and translators for up to two months in spring and fall; Art Omi: Architecture, which invites mid-career architects to develop their work during a full two-week residency; Art Omi: Music Residency, which brings together musicians, composers and improvisers in early August; and Art Omi: Dance for dancers and choreographers in late summer. The programs encourage residents to collaborate and explore new avenues of expression and experiment with media and techniques not always available to them at home. Residents are provided with free room and board as well as a congenial place in which to work. Each year a limited number of fellowships are available to help artists with the costs of travel and art supplies. The residency welcomes talented applicants whether they are starting out, in mid-career or are already established. To date Art Omi has hosted over two-thousand residents from 110 different countries and the United States.\n\nArt Omi invites gallerists, critics, agents, publishers, curators and collectors to give talks and presentations. Their visits also benefit residents by providing them with exposure and access to the New York cultural scene. Omi regularly holds exhibitions, readings, concerts and dance performances to which the public is invited. In addition to the four residency programs, Omi International Arts Center is also home to The Fields Sculpture Park, Art Omi: Architecture and Art Omi: Education.\n\nThe main compound is made up of three separate buildings with 18 guest rooms, three conference rooms, a library and communal spaces. Ledig House (named for the late German publisher H.M. Ledig-Rowohlt), a converted 1830 farmhouse, serves as Art Omi's home and central meeting place. The principal work space consists of a two-story converted barn and several satellite sheds. The latest addition to the Art Omi campus is the Charles B. Benenson Visitors Center & Gallery, which opened to the public in the summer of 2008. The Center presents exhibitions of art and sculpture and includes a gift shop and café. The structure has been built using state-of-the-art 'green' technology. Omi's facilities are available for rental for corporate retreats from December through March, when residency programs are not in session.\n\nThe Fields Sculpture Park, which is open to the public throughout the year, features over 70 permanent and temporary exhibitions. The Fields occupies approximately 150 acres of the Omi's campus that has recently expanded to cover nearly 500 acres of farmland, woods and ponds. In the future architects will be invited to design structures ranging from pavilions to free-standing buildings, some of which may function as autonomous galleries or mini-museums.\n\nArt Omi raises money primarily from philanthropic and corporate foundations and individual donors. Its major fundraising event is a theater benefit held each spring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31613212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31613212", "title": "PLH Architects", "text": "PLH Architects\n\nPLH Architects is an architectural firm based in Copenhagen, Denmark. It was founded in 1977 by Palle Leif Hansen.\n\nPLH Arkitekter is based in a former industrial complex situated in the Haraldsgade neighbourhood on the border between outer Nørrebro and Østerbro in Copenhagen. The buildings are the former home of Laurids Knudsens Mekaniske Etablissement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13448496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13448496", "title": "Providence Black Repertory Company", "text": "Providence Black Repertory Company\n\nThe Providence Black Repertory Company (Black Rep) was a 501c3 non profit arts organization based in Providence, Rhode Island, USA. It offered programming inspired by the cultural traditions of the African Diaspora in Theater, Education, and Public Programs. It operated from 1996 till 2009.\n\nFounded in 1996 by Artistic/Executive Director Donald W. King, and Chairman Michael S. Van Leesten, The Providence Black Repertory Company grew from a public program at AS220 called Xxodus Presents Miss Fannie's Soul Food Kitchen. Black Rep produced its first stage production, The Island, on the third floor of a former print shop on Washington St. in Downcity Providence.\n\nTen years later, Black Rep was located at 276 Westminster St. in a facility that includes performance and rehearsal space as well as a café and lounge. Black Rep offers programming such as a Latin Jazz series, drumming workshops for youth, premiers of new American plays, and Sound Session, a music festival produced in partnership with The City of Providence's Department of Art, Culture & Tourism. Across the three program areas Black Rep contextualizes artistic work through humanities panels, discussions, printed materials, and outreach.\n\nIn 2006, Black Rep celebrated its 10th Anniversary as a Downcity Providence cultural institution.\n\nAccording to a 2/1/2010 article published in the Providence Journal, \"Established in 1996, the Black Rep was closed in December 2009 after the organization failed to keep a positive cash flow. The group was granted a hardship request to throw its annual New Year’s Eve party, in the hopes that revenue from the event could have helped pay off some debt. It wasn’t enough...\".\n\nThe Theater experience at the Black Rep is informed by an approach that places the deliberate investigation of cultural, social, historical and political consciousness and conscience at the center of the creative process. Each season includes three mainstage productions and three readings of new American plays through the First Look Reading Series for plays in development. Mainstage productions have included plays by Amiri Baraka, Aisha Rahman, Athol Fugard, Federico García Lorca, Harold Pinter, Sam Shepard, Cheryl West, María Irene Fornés, and August Wilson, as well as original stage adaptations of the poetry of Langston Hughes and Kevin Young (poet). Each December, The Black Rep’s Affiliate Artist company develops a workshop production showcasing its own work in process while providing a chance for audiences to be part of its development.\n\nBlack Rep’s Public Programs present live music, poetry, and other performance-based art of the African Diaspora six nights a week in the Xxodus Café. Each week night of public programming is informed by a particular musical tradition of the African Diaspora. Monday is Polyphonic, an open mic for artists working in forms of musical expression deriving from the Blues (Hip Hop, Acoustic Solo, Rock etc.). Tuesday is Maroon Society, Black Rep's Caribbean Culture series where selectors spin Reggae, Dub, Ska, and Dancehall. Wednesday is Latin Jazz & Salsa. Thursdays is Afro-Sonic, a Deep House night with live West African drumming. Friday is Ecclection, a night for Hip Hop, R&B, Funk and Soul. Saturday is the Neon Soul Cabaret, which plays host to Black Rep's house band, Neon Soul Collective - a group indebted to the various styles of music played in the café throughout the week. Each season of Public Programs culminates with Providence Sound Session, a genre-defying summer music festival co-produced with The City of Providence's Department of Art, Culture & Tourism.\n\nEach season is accompanied by Education programs, including student matinees, in-school residencies, and after-school workshops. Artist Educators bring Black Rep’s interdisciplinary approach into the community through workshops in music, dance, theater, poetry and video production. Teaching methodologies stress collaboration and value students’ cultural heritage and experience, with the goal of developing youth and adults who recognize the importance and power of the art and culture of the African Diaspora and embrace the values of community and democracy that are part of these traditions.\n\nBlack Rep is committed to Artist Development, offering opportunities for musicians and performers to participate in master classes, workshops, and career development activities. At Black Rep, local artists have an opportunity to network, share resources, and build their careers through employment.\nArtists who look to the organization to provide them with creative opportunities come from many different places of cultural origin. Almost 86% are locally or regionally based in Rhode Island and Southeastern New England, 11% are based in New York, and 3% are based in other states, or internationally. The Company has attracted artists from Nigeria and Trinidad and Tobago. Local artists who have worked at Black Rep identify as African-American, Haitian, Cape Verdean, Hispanic/Latino, Caribbean, Native American, Caucasian/White, Mixed Heritage and Filipino.\n\nThe Black Rep had partnerships and collaborations with local cultural and educational institutions including Brown University’s Rites and Reason Theatre and Rhode Island College’s MFA Program in Performance and Society. Collaborative projects include new play development, co-production, and mentoring of young artists.\n\nThe John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington D.C. recently invited Black Rep to join their Capacity Building Program for Culturally Specific Performing Arts Organizations. Other recognition includes the 2004 Arts & Business Council of RI Jabez Gorham Award for Most Outstanding Arts Organization, 2003 New England Theatre Conference Regional Award for Outstanding Achievement in American Theatre, and the 2003 Citizens Bank Community Champion Award (in Education).\n\n"}
{"id": "6070611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070611", "title": "Radical chic", "text": "Radical chic\n\n\"Radical chic\" is a term coined by journalist Tom Wolfe in his 1970 essay \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\" to describe the adoption and promotion of radical political causes by celebrities, socialites, and high society. The concept has been described as \"an exercise in double-tracking one's public image: on the one hand, defining oneself through committed allegiance to a radical cause, but on the other, vitally, demonstrating this allegiance because it is the fashionable, \"au courant\" way to be seen in moneyed, name-conscious Society.\" Unlike dedicated activists, revolutionaries, or dissenters, those who engage in \"radical chic\" remain frivolous political agitators. They are ideologically invested in their cause of choice only so far as it advances their social standing.\n\n\"Terrorist chic\" is a modern expression with similar connotations. This derivative, however, de-emphasizes the class satire of Wolfe's original term, instead accentuating concerns over the semiotics of radicalism (such as the aestheticization of violence).\n\nIn languages such as American English, French and Italian the term has become widely used to indicate people identifying themselves as socialists or radical leftists while conducting upper-class lifestyles.\n\nThe phrase \"radical chic\" originated in a 1970 \"New York\" article by Tom Wolfe, titled \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", which was later reprinted in his books \"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers\" and \"The Purple Decades\". In the essay, Wolfe used the term to satirize composer Leonard Bernstein and his friends for their absurdity in hosting a fundraising party for the Black Panthers—an organization whose members, activities, and goals were clearly incongruous with those of Bernstein's elite circle. Wolfe's concept of radical chic was intended to lampoon individuals (particularly social elites like the jet set) who endorsed leftist radicalism merely to affect worldliness, assuage white guilt, or garner prestige, rather than to affirm genuine political convictions.\n\nThe concept of \"fashionable\" espousal of radical causes by members of wealthy society in this case had been argued against by Bernstein's wife, Felicia Montealegre, prior to the publication of \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", a fact Wolfe details in it. The essay appeared in the June 8, 1970 issue of \"New York\", 20 weeks after the actual fund raiser at the Bernstein residence was held on January 14. The first report of the event appeared the following day in a piece by \"The New York Times\" style reporter Charlotte Curtis, who was in attendance. Curtis wrote in part: \"Leonard Bernstein and a Black Panther leader argued the merits of the Black Panther party's philosophy before nearly 90 guests last night in the Bernsteins' elegant Park Avenue duplex.\" According to Wolfe, the release of the story worldwide was followed by strong criticism of the event: \"The English, particularly, milked the story for all it was worth and seemed to derive one of the great cackles of the year from it.\"\n\nThe negative reaction prompted publication of an op-ed in the \"Times\" on January 16 entitled \"False Note on Black Panthers\" that was severely critical of the Black Panther Party and Bernstein:\n\nFelicia Montealegre wrote and personally delivered a response to this op-ed to the \"Times\" offices. In her response she wrote:\n\nTerrorist chic (also known as \"terror chic\" or \"militant chic\") is a more recent and specific variation of the term. It refers to the appropriation of symbols, objects, and aesthetics related to radical militants, usually in the context of pop culture or fashion. When such imagery is deployed subversively, the process exemplifies aestheticization of propaganda. Regardless, because terrorist chic derives its iconography from groups and individuals often associated with violent conflict or terrorism, the term carries a greater pejorative tone than \"radical chic.\"\n\nInstances of terrorist chic have variously been interpreted as morally irresponsible, earnestly counter-cultural, ironically hip, or benignly apolitical. According to Henry K. Miller of the \"New Statesman\", the most well-known example is the ubiquitous appearance of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in popular culture. Other cases that have been labeled terrorist chic include: the Prada-Meinhof fashion line (a pun on Prada and the Baader-Meinhof Gang) and the fashion of combining keffiyehs and military-style clothing such as camo prints and heavy boots, outside the Arab World.\n\nIn his 1996 \"Bangor Daily News\" article \"Libertarian chic hits country,\" Roland Nethaway compared libertarians to \"John Wayne on steroids,\" writing they were \"anti-government before anti-government was cool\". In a 2013 Reuters article, Nicholas Wapshott used the term to describe those who use radical statements to add a \"dangerous edge to their otherwise humdrum personas.\"\n\nLos Angeles Times journalist suggested that Alberto Korda's iconic March 1960 photograph of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara is possibly \"the most-reproduced photograph in the world,\" a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia within popular culture.\n\nShortly after the October 17, 1997 burial with military honors in Santa Clara, Cuba of Guevara's disinterred and identified remains, found in the Bolivian jungle by forensic anthropologists, \"New York Times\" columnist Richard Bernstein argued that the third-world revolution that Che embodied was no longer even a \"drawing-room, radical-chic hope.\" Concurrent with his re-burial, three major Guevara biographies were published in 1997. Noting the sustained interest in Che, Bernstein suggested that \"the end of the cold war and the failure of the third-world revolution\" allowed for the \"scrutiny of Guevara, [as] a symbol of both the idealism and the moral blindness of the decade of protest\" to take place free in a context free \"of ideological partisanship and rancor.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2008 the documentary \"Chevolution\", on the mass dissemination of Korda's iconic photograph taken at a memorial service in Havana in March 1960 of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara entitled \"Guerillero Heroico\" by Trisha Ziff and Luis Lopez starring Antonio Banderas and Gael García Bernal, was launched. This documentary is a critical work about propaganda, \"communism and capitalism, idealism and opportunism, art and commerce\" from the 1960s to the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nOn 21 May 2008 Steven Soderbergh's long-anticipated and highly acclaimed film premiered at Cannes starring Benicio Del Toro. The film followed most other pop-culture trends by showing a glamorized and romanticized portrayal of Che as a 'heroic liberator'. Del Toro won the Best Actor Award, and the film received mostly positive reviews. \"Che\" was released on December 12, 2008 in New York City and Los Angeles to qualify for the year's Academy Awards.\n\nTed Balaker, editor-in-chief of Reason TV, an American libertarian website, wrote and produced \"Killer Chic\" in 2008, a libertarian, anti-Communist documentary, in which he deconstructed the use of images of Che Guevara and Mao Zedong in popular culture. In his blog entry on 11 December 2008, Reason journalist Nick Gillespie used the term \"killer chic\" in his review of Steven Soderbergh's film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57265072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57265072", "title": "Rhythm of Structure", "text": "Rhythm of Structure\n\nRhythm of Structure is a multimedia interdisciplinary project founded in 2003. It features a series of exhibitions, performances, and academic projects that explore the interconnecting structures and process of mathematics and art, and language, as way to advance a movement of mathematical expression across the arts, across creative collaborative communities celebrating the rhythm and patterns of both ideas of the mind and the physical reality of nature.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure\", as an expanding series of art exhibitions, performances, videos/films and publications created and curated by multimedia mathematical artist and writer John Sims, explores and celebrates the intersecting structures of mathematics, art, community, and nature. Sims also created \"Recoloration Proclamation\" featuring the installation, The Proper Way to Hang a Confederate Flag (2004). \n\nFrom his catalog essay from the \"Rhythm of Structure: Mathematics, Art and Poetic exhibition\", Sims sets the curatorial theme where he writes: \"Mathematics, as a parameter of human consciousness in an indispensable conceptual technology, essential is seeing beyond the retinal and knowing beyond the intuitive. The language and process of mathematics, as elements of, foundation for art, inform an analytic expressive condition that inspires a visual reckoning for a convergence: from the illustrative to the metaphysical to the poetic. And in the dialectic of visual art call and text performative response, there is an inter-dimensional conversation where the twisting structures of language, vision and human ways give birth to the spiritual lattice of a social geometry, a community constructivism -- a place of connections, where emotional calculations meet spirited abstraction.\" \n\nFirst premiering at the Fire Patrol No.5 Gallery in 2003, with the show \"Rhythm of Structure: MathArt\" in Harlem. This interdisciplinary project has featured numerous exhibitions around the country collaborating with many notable artists, writers, and musicians including: Sol Lewitt, Adrian Piper, Dorothea Rockburne, Al Loving,Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, Helaman Ferguson, John Hiigli, Vandorn Hinnant, Karen Finley, Dread Scott, Paul D. Miller, Bob Holman, Kate Rushin, Roman Verostko, Joan Waltemath, Tara Betts, Brent Collins, Mike Field, Kazmier Maslanka, Ken Hiratsuka, Yael Acher Moriano, Richard Kostelanetz, Kristin Prevallet, John Sims, and former U.S. Poet Laureate Mark Strand.\n\nIn addition to the exhibitions, another major aim of \"Rhythm of Structure\" is the building of a interdisciplinary creative community around the intersection of mathematics and all forms of art, as it might inspire new art, innovation art and mathematics education, and increased respect and understanding of the rhythm and structure of nature itself. Such community experiences are created through call and response performances, social media and special video music projects such as The Rhythm of Structure and The Pi Day Anthem featuring John Sims and Vi Hart .\n\nRhythm of Structure has its beginnings in Sims’ work as one of the international curators for the exhibition \"Science in the Arts - Art in the Sciences\", a city wide exhibition, in conjunction with the UNESCO-ICSU World Conference of Science, Budapest, Hungary in 1999.\n\nThis led to the exhibition, \"MathArt/ArtMath\", curated by John Sims (then Coordinator of Mathematics at Ringling) and Kevin Dean, at the Selby Gallery Ringling College of Art and Design in 2002. This show presented a general survey of art inspired and framed by mathematics ideas of mostly American modern and contemporary artists, as well as mathematicians working in the area of visual mathematics. The theme of the show was designed to examine the complexity and diversity of the meaning of mathematical art. The \"MathArt/ArtMath\" exhibition featured: Josef Albers, Thomas Banchoff, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Manuelo Baez, Jhane Barnes, Max Bill, Mel Bochner, Brent Collins, David Davis, George Deem, Agnes Denes, M.C. Escher, Fred Eversley, Shannon Fagan, Helaman Ferguson, Mike Field, Charles Gaines, Paulus Gerdes, Bathsheba Grossman, Al Held, John Hiigli, Slavik Jablan, Alfred Jensen, Andrienne Klein, Sol LeWitt, Arthur Lee Loeb, Paul D. Miller aka DJ Spooky, Marlena Novak, Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, Richard Purdy, Tony Robbin, Dorothea Rockburne, Frank Rothkamm, Irene Rousseau, Carlo Sequin, John Sims, John Sullivan, Jack Tworkov, Roman Verostko, and John Waltemath. There was a brochure and video produced for this exhibition.\n\nAfter the \"MathArt/ArtMath\" exhibition, Sims began working on a text about the nature of mathematical art leading to his chapter, \"Trees, Roots and a Brain: A Metaphorical Foundation for Mathematical Art\", in the book \"Mathematics and Culture II: Visual Perfection: Mathematics and Creativity\". In his chapter, he presents his ideas on the interconnection of mathematics, art and nature, setting the stage for his next group of exhibitions called \"Rhythm of Structure\".\n\n\"MathArt in Harlem\", January 2003, Fire Patrol #5 Gallery in Harlem New York City, New York, featured artists Audrey Bennet, Brent Collins, Agnes Denes, Helaman Ferguson, Charles Gaines, Bathsheba Grossman, John Hiigli, Ken Hiratsuka, Adrienne Klein, Sol LeWitt, John Little, Al Loving, Marlena Novak, Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, John Powell, Tony Robbin, Irene Rousseau, Clifford Singer, John Sims, and Joan Waltemath.\n\n\"The Mathematical Aesthetic\", 2004, Wilmer Jennings Gallery in New York City, New York, included artists: Joe Overstreet, John Biggers, Brent Collins, Lisa Corinne Davis, Fred Eversley, Terri Foster, Charles Gaines, Simon Gouverneur, James Little, Al Loving, Vandorn Hinnant, Scott Johnson, Howardena Pindell, John Sims, Kevin Sipp, Al Smith, Joyce Wellman, and Jack White.\n\nIn association with the \"Knotting Mathematics and Art: Conference in Low Dimensional Topology and Mathematical Art\" at University of South Florida in November 2007, there were three exhibitions of \"Rhythm of Structure: Beyond the Mathematics\", curated by John Sims, which were hosted at the Centre Gallery, Museum of Science & Industry in Tampa, and the Oliver Gallery, respectively. Featured artists for this exhibition included: Davide Cervone, Brent Collins, Alex Feingold, Helaman Ferguson, Mike Field, Nat Friedman, Chaim Goodman-Strauss, Gary Greenfield, Bathsheba Grossman, George W. Hart, Slavik Jablan, Sol Lewitt, Charles O. Perry, Tony Robbin, Radmilla Sazdanovic, John Sims, Carlo Sequin, and Peter Swedenborg.\n\nA review of the conference and exhibition was also published in the \"Journal of Mathematics and the Arts\".\n\n\"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\", 2009-2010, premiered at the Bowery Poetry Club in New York City, New York. This exhibition consisted of nine shows, each show a month long typically featuring two artists or a small group. Featured poets or performers were invited to respond to the works with a performance at the closing of the show. The entire exhibition featured over 70 artists and performers, plus an art class from Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment, and students of the Rhythm of Structure Class at NYU Tisch School of the Arts. The complete exhibition led to a published catalog and documentary film, which screened at the Sarasota Film Festival in 2012. The entire exhibition then traveled as a summary show to Ringling College of Art and Design, as well as Antioch College in 2011.\n\n\"Squares and Circles\" featuring John Hiigli and Vandorn Hinnant\n\nThis inaugural show featured the duet paintings: \"Chrome 163\" by John Hiigli, and \"What Euclid intended for us to know\" by Vandorn Hinnant. Responding poems/poets: \"Circular Vibration\" by Christina Schmitt, \"The Digital Organic\" by Alan Gilbert, \"The Square Transformed\" by Christina Schmitt, and \"Poemedy Squircular\" (Excerpt) by Summer Hill Seven.\n\n\"Lines and Curves\" featuring Paulus Gerdes/John Sims and Ken Hiratsuka \n\nThis show featured rope installation and stone carving: \"A Roped Mirrored Curve\" by Paulus Gerdes/John Sims, \"Chained Universe\" by Ken Hiratsuka. Responding poems/poets: \"Quadrants\" by Kristin Prevallet, \"Images of Devonian Age\" by Pooh Kaye, and \"The Curvature of Green\" by Shanxing Wang.\n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" featuring The Hive Artists \n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" created by John Sims based on the rotations of his piece \"SquareRoots of a Tree\" in a collaboration of the following works: \"Haloed Angel Study: Spark\" by Dorothea Rockburne, \"Eseau on Globe Crossing\" by Joyce Wellman, \"Chrome 151: 3 Spheres\" by John Hiigli , \"Isometric Systems in Isotropic Space-Map Projection: The Cube\" by Agnes Denes, \"Square Roots of a Tree\" by John Sims, \"Squaring the Circle: Heaven in Earth\" by Pam Tuczyn, \"Drawing 13\" by Roman Verostko, \"Poincare-double lace\" by Carlo Sequin, \"Iterations\" by Mike Field, \"Enlightened Vision #10\" by Christina Schmitt, \"Kelien-Fountain\" by Davide Cevone, \"Root Three Fractal SpiralGram\" by Vandorn Hinnant, \"Zero\" by Kevin Dean, \"Tree Root of a Fractal\" by John Sims, \"Spheres\" by Susan Happersett, \"Fish\" by Ken Hiratsuka, \"Drawn with a Compass, Chopstick and a Pen\" by Howardena Pindell, \"Our Days are Numbered!\" by Robert Fitterman, \"Mapping of the Universe\" by Faybiene Miranda, \"Is Numerology Math\" by Chris Funkhouser, \"Where Come Together\" by Chris Funkhouser, \"Alphabetical Mutability\" by Tatiana Bonch, and \"One\" by Marcella Durand.\n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" was also featured in a \"Journal of Mathematics and Arts\" paper.\n\n\"You Lie\" featuring Paul D. Miller and Dread Scott \n\nThis exhibition featured the digital works on paper, \"You Lie\" by Paul D. Miller and \"Poll Dance\" by Dread Scott. Responding Poems/Poets: \"Spam A Lot (Viagra for Joe Wilson)\" by LaTasha N. Nevada Diggs, \"Survey\" by LaTasha N. Nevada Diggs, \"Coolant System\" by Alan Gilbert, and \"Count Me In\" by Kelly Zen-Yie Tsai.\n\n\"The Square Root of Love\" featuring Karen Finley and John Sims \n\nThis duet show featured: \"Many Moods of Love\" by Karen Finley and \"Square Root of Love\" by John Sims. Responding Poems/Poets:\"The Square Root of Love: Calculating the HEART of Things\" by JoAnne Growney, and \"Learning To Be My Father's Son or 16 Things I Could Never Tell My Father\" by Regie Cabico.\n\nJohn Sims' part of exhibition developed into a Valentine's Day wine-poetry-film project premiering in Paris in 2017.\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" featuring Sol LeWitt and Adrian Piper\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" featuring Sol LeWitt and Adrian Piper was a duet show that featured the wall installations: \"Drawing #163\" by Sol LeWitt, and \"Vanishing Point #1\" by Adrian Piper. Responding Poems/Poets: \"Sociedad Anonima\" by Mónica de la Torre, \"Two Poems Squared\" by Bob Holman, \"Dear Morning Light dear visiwind\" by Bob Holman, \"Terra Quad\" by Edwin Torres, \"MathArtPoem: A LeWitt/Piper Response\" by John Sims/Rhythm of Structure Class/NYU, \"For the Girl Who Was Asked to Write a Poem About Me and, as Usual, Wanted to Write a Poem About Her Heart Instead\" by Eboni Hogan, \"The Elevator\" by Mark Strand, and \"Empty\" by Jon Sands.\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" was reviewed by \"Art in America Magazine\".\n\n\"(20, 21, 29): An Assignment\" featuring the Students of Brooklyn Academy of Science and Environment\n\n\"(20, 21, 29): An Assignment,\" a visualization of the Pythagorean triple (20, 21, 29) created by art students with teacher Jennifer Lemish at the Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment. Responding Poems/Poets: \"21 Reasons Why I hate Math\" by Shappy Seasholtz, and \"29 Solutions For Writers, by People Who Know Better Than Me\" by Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz.\n\n\"Mathematical Graffiti\" featuring Fernando Mora, John Sims with Kyle Goen, Mark Turgeon, and the Bowery Poetry Club Patrons\n\n\"Mathematical Graffiti\" featured: Fernando Mora, John Sims with Kyle Goen, Mark Turgeon, and the Bowery Poetry Club Patrons. Poetic Responses: \"Mutually Inverse Operations: Mathematical Poetry on the Occasion of the Mathematical Graffiti Wall\" by Gregory Vincent St. Thomasino, \"Proportional Poems\" by Kaz Maslanka, \"Graffiti Mathemaku\" by Bob Grumman, \"33 Symmetry Axes x 40 Orthogonal Triples: or, Free Will, Revisited\" by Stephanie Strickland, \"Who Counts, Counts\" by Stephanie Strickland, and \"Notes on Numbers\" by Richard Kostelanetz.\n\nGregory Vincent St. Thomasino featured portions of this exhibition in his blog.\n\n\"The HyperQuilt\" featuring Helen Beamish, Elaine Ellison, Suzanne Gould, John Sims, Ella Toy, Diana Venters, and Paula Wynter\n\n\"The HyperQuilt\" featured: Helen Beamish, Elaine Ellison, Suzanne Gould, John Sims, Ella Toy, Diana Venters, and Paula Wynter. Responding Poems/Poets: \"The Language of Quilts\" by Tara Betts, \"The Last Time\" by Adam Falkner and Jeanann Verlee, \"We Come From Farm People\" by Kate Rushin, \"The Math Poem: Along The Learning Curve\" by Kate Rushin.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure:\" Bowery and Beyond (2011)\n\nThe entire nine \"Rhythm of Structure\" shows at the Bowery Poetry Club were brought together as one united \"Rhythm of Structure: Bowery and Beyond\" exhibition at the Selby Gallery at Ringling College of Art and Design in February, 2011.\n\nAfter the Selby Gallery showing at Ringling, it was shown later that year at the Antioch College, from May to November 2011. The \"Dayton City Paper\" reviewed the exhibition and featured an article in their local newspaper.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection: Bowery and Beyond - Exhibition Catalogue\" \n\nIn 2011, the catalog \"Rhythm of Structure Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection: Bowery and Beyond\" was produced by Selby Gallery and Antioch College Herndon Gallery at Ringling College of Art and Design and John Sims, containing all 9 of the \"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" exhibits. \"Sarasota Herald Tribune\" previewed and reviewed the exhibition catalog at Selby Gallery, and the film at the Sarasota Film Festival.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure:\" MathArt in the African Diaspora - International Review of African American Art \n\nIn 2004, John Sims and Juliette Harris co-edited a special issue, \"MathArt in the African Diaspora\", for the \"International Review of African American Art\" which featured artists: John Sims, Al Smith, Juliette Harris, Ron Eglash, Brent Collins, Andrea Pollan, Howardena Pindell, and Paulus Gerdes.\n\nIn the spring of 2010, in connection to the \"Rhythm of Structure: Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" at the Bowery Poetry Club, John Sims was invited to teach a course for the department of Art and Public Policy at Tisch School of the Arts. The course, \"Rhythm of Structure: Trees, Flags and Clock\", examined the mechanisms/structures of developing John Sims' three large-scale interdisciplinary art projects (as case studies), which explored issues of social justice, community building, and the politics of grand scale works. With these multi-level projects-in-progress, which intersect the space of art with mathematics, visual politics, and social networking, the course investigated the various strategies and challenges in creating a system of objects-texts-sounds-works that employs the tools of social organizing, media, technology, culture jamming, performance, poetry, and satire.\n\nThe student final group project was a collective video-poetry response to the Sol Lewitt and Adrian Piper exhibition, \"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\", which was up at that point at the \"Rhythm of Structure\" exhibition at the Bowery Poetry Club. The video and live student readings were also presented at the closing of the show.\n\n\"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" was made into a documentary, \"Rhythm of Structure: Bowery and Beyond\", and presented at Sarasota Film Festival in 2012. The film was also previewed and reviewed by the \"Saratosa Herald Tribune\".\n\nIn connection to the film screening, there was are dinner, art performance reception featuring John Sims and Karen Finley's Square of Love installation from the Rhythm of Structure exhibition at the Bowery Poetry Club. The dinner featured a special menu prepared by Chef Gene Marra inspired by roots and love. The performance program included Twinkle, the late Kenny Drew Jr., Thomas Carabasi, Eleonora Lvov, Nate Jacobs, Michael Mendez, Kyleelise Holmes, Greg Tate and Bahiyyah Maroon.\n\nThere have been a number of reviews for \"Rhythm of Structure\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48568826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48568826", "title": "Sonia Antinori", "text": "Sonia Antinori\n\nSonia Antinori (born in Viareggio on 23 April 1963) is an award-winning Italian playwright, actress, theater director and translator. She has studied visual arts, theater and ballet, and graduated from the University of Florence. Since 1990, she has been working in Italy and in other countries abroad. Her plays have been presented at several festivals and theaters, broadcast and translated into, among others, German, English, French, Spanish, Polish, Bosnian, Turkish.\n\nIn 1998 she took part in \"The Colours of the Chameleon\", a residential project at the Traverse Theatre in Edinburgh with her one act play \"Black\" (directed by Nick Bone). In 1999 Sonia was invited by the International Playwriting Festival at the Warehouse in East Croydon, where Brennan Street directed her \"Castle of Mud\". \nShe was invited to take part in various international workshops and presentations (Kulturforum Graz 1996, Festival Theaterformen Braunschweig 2000, University of Mainz 2001).\n\nShe has translated several plays from German and English into Italian (Arthur Schnitzler, Frank Wedekind, Ödön von Horváth, , Werner Schwab, Thornton Wilder, Rona Munro, Georg Büchner, Matthieu Bertholet, Gareth Armstrong, Fritz Kater, Eugene O’Neill, Dylan Thomas, Dea Loher). In 2007 her Italian version of the play \"Volksvernichtung\" by Austrian playwright Werner Schwab has been awarded in Milan the , the most prestigious Italian Theatre Prize.\n\nShe has been teaching playwriting and acting at the Scuola Holden in Turin, at the University of Venice, the University of Urbino, the Scuola Teatri Possibili of Milan and the School of Teatro Stabile delle Marche, among many others. She also teaches in several workshops in Europe, South America and Africa.\n\nSince 2006 she has been developing in association with Malte on various projects and events mostly focused on site specific research in the Marche Region.\n\nHer plays include \"L'Ospite\" (1993), \"Maria Maddalena\", \"Il sole dorme\" (1995), \"Il contagio\", \"Berlinbabylon\", \"Il castello di fango\" (\"Castle of Mud\") (1997), \"Nel tempo insolito\" (\"Unusual time\") (1998), \"Nietzsche. La danza sull’abisso\" (2000), \"Trebus o il fenomeno dell’ombra\" (2002), \"Rosa la Rossa\" (2003), \"La Controra\", \"Matakiterangi (Occhi che guardano il cielo)\", \"La Global Comedia\" (2005), \"Terra di Mezzanotte\" (2006), \"L’astratto principio della speranza\" (2007), \"Werther Project\", \"Buio\" (2010). Her works also include novels and short stories.\nHer works have been printed by several publishers. In 2012 Titivillus published her first collection of plays: \"4. Trame agli angoli della Storia\".\nIn 2013 she initiated \"WISE (Workshop Identity: a Story about Europe)\", a European Project of Testimonial Theatre about Politics and Democracy, developing a collective modular dramaturgy (\"Politics taught to my grandchildren – a European Bildungsroman\") which has been presented in the project’s four partner countries (Italy, Germany, UK, Poland).\n"}
{"id": "2645499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645499", "title": "Southeastern Ceremonial Complex", "text": "Southeastern Ceremonial Complex\n\nThe Southeastern Ceremonial Complex (formerly the Southern Cult), aka S.E.C.C., is the name given to the regional stylistic similarity of artifacts, iconography, ceremonies, and mythology of the Mississippian culture that coincided with their adoption of maize agriculture and chiefdom-level complex social organization from 1200 to 1650 CE. This development appears to have no direct links to Mesoamerica, but developed independently. This ceremonial complex represents a major component of the religion of the Mississippian peoples, and is one of the primary means by which their religion is understood.\n\nObsolete names for this ceremonial complex, found in some anthropological sources, include Buzzard Cult and Southern Death Cult.\n\nMuch of what is called a \"complex\" was more of an \"exchange network.\" This kind of network may be illustrated by a pair of shell gorgets whose representation is so similar as to suggest that they were made by the same artist. One is found in southeast Missouri and the other in Spiro Mounds in Oklahoma. Numerous other pairs of extremely similar gorgets serve to link sites across the entire Southeast. The social organization of the Mississippian culture was based on warfare, which was represented by an array of motifs and symbols in articles made from costly raw materials, such as conches from Florida, copper from the Great Lakes area and Appalachian Mountains, lead from northern Illinois and Iowa, pottery from Tennessee, and stone tools sourced from Kansas, Texas, and southern Illinois. Such objects occur in elite burials, together with war axes, maces, and other weapons. These warrior symbols occur alongside other artifacts, which bear cosmic imagery depicting animals, humans, and mythic beasts. This symbolic imagery bound together warfare, cosmology, and nobility into a coherent whole. Some of these categories of artifacts were used as markers of chiefly office, which varied from one location to another. The term Southeast Ceremonial Complex refers to a complex, highly variable set of religious mechanisms that supported the authority of local chiefs.\n\nThe \"S.E.C.C.\" was first defined in 1945 by the archaeologists Antonio Waring and Preston Holder as a series of four lists of traits, which they categorized as the \"Southeastern (centered) Ceremonial Complex\". Their concept was of a complex of a specific cult manifestation that originated with Muskogean speakers in the southern United States. Since then scholars have expanded the original definition, while using its trait lists as a foundation for critical analysis of the entire concept.\n\nIn 1989 scholars proposed a more archaeologically based definition for the Mississippian artistic tradition. Jon Muller of Southern Illinois University proposes the classification of the complex into five horizons, with each as a discrete tradition defined by the origin of specific motifs and ritual objects, and the specific developments in long-distance exchange and political structures.\n\nWith the redefinition of the complex, some scholars have suggested choosing a new name to exemplify the new understanding of the large body of art symbols classified as the S.E.C.C. Participants of a decade-long series of conferences held at Texas State University have proposed the terms \"Mississippian Ideological Interaction Sphere\" or \"M.I.I.S.\" and \"Mississippian Art and Ceremonial Complex\" or \"M.A.C.C.\" Present theories suggest that the complex developed from pre-existing beliefs spread over the midwest and southeast by the Hopewell Interaction Sphere from 100 BCE to 500 CE.\n\nThe major expression of the complex developed at the Cahokia site and is known as the Braden Style; it corresponds with the Southern Cult Period horizon defined by Muller. Other regional styles developed as a result of the fusion of ideas borrowed from the Braden Style and pre-existing local expressions of post-Hopewellian traditions.\n\nAs the major centers, such as Cahokia, collapsed and the trade networks broke down, the regional styles diverged more from the \"Braden Style\" and from each other. During the ensuing centuries, the local traditions diverged into the religious beliefs and cosmologies of the different historic tribes known to exist at the time of European contact.\n\nMost S.E.C.C. imagery focuses on cosmology and the supernatural beings who inhabit the cosmos. The cosmological map encompassed real, knowable locations, whether in this world or the supernatural reality of the Otherworld. S.E.C.C. iconography portrayed the cosmos in three levels. The Above World or Overworld, was the home of the Thunderers, the Sun, Moon, and Morning Star or Red Horn / \"He Who Wears Human Heads For Earrings\" and represented Order and Stability. The Middle World was the Earth that humans live in. The Beneath World or Under World was a cold, dark place of Chaos that was home to the Underwater Panther and Corn Mother or \"Old Woman Who Never Dies\".\n\nThese three worlds were connected by an \"axis mundi\", usually portrayed as a cedar tree or a striped pole reaching from the Under World to the Over World. Each of the three levels also was believed to have its own sub-levels. Deeply ingrained in the world view was the concept of duality and opposition. The beings of the Upper and Under realms were in constant opposition to each other. Ritual and ceremony were the means by which these powerful forces could be accessed and harnessed.\n\nMany common motifs in S.E.C.C. artwork are locative symbols that help determine where the action takes place and where the beings originated.\n\nThe falcon is one of the most conspicuous symbols of the S.E.C.C. It was simultaneously an avatar of warriors and an object of supplication for a lengthy life, healthy family, and a long line of descendants. Its supernatural origin is placed in the Upper World with a pantheon including the Sun, Moon, and Four Stars. He is most often represented on precious materials, sometimes shell, most often on beaten copper. He dances, costumed with great ground-sweeping wings and a raptor-beaked mask. In his raised right hand he holds a club, prepared to strike. In his left he holds rattles fashioned from human skulls.\n\nAt Cahokia, the falcon imagery was elaborated in figural expression. It is associated with warfare, high-stakes gaming, and possibly family dynastic ambitions, symbolized by arrow flights and the rising of the pre-dawn morning star as metaphors for the succession of descendants into the future. Raptor imagery gained prominence during the Hopewell period, but attained its peak in the Braden Style of the early Mississippian period. It survived afterward in the Red Horn mythological cycle and native religion of the Ho-Chunk (Winnebagos), Osage, Ioway, and other plains Siouan peoples. In the Braden Style, the Birdman is divided into four categories.\n\nVarious motifs are associated with the Birdman, including the forked eye motif, columnella pendants, mace or club weapons, severed heads, chunkey play (including chunkey stones, striped and broken chunkey sticks), bellows-shaped aprons, and bi-lobed arrow motifs.\n\nThe Red Horn Mythic Cycle is from the Ho Chunk, or Winnebago people. The mythic cycle of Red Horn and his sons has certain analogies with the Hero Twins mythic cycle of Mesoamerica. Redhorn was known by many names, including \"Morning Star\", a reference to his celestial origin, and \"He who is Struck with Deer Lungs,\" a possible reference to the Bi-Lobed Arrow Motif. In the episode associated with this name, Red Horn turns into an arrow to win a race. After winning the race, Redhorn creates heads on his earlobes and makes his hair into a long red braid. Thus he becomes known as \"Redhorn\" and as \"He who has Human Heads as Earlobes\".\n\nIn another episode, Redhorn and his friends are challenged by the Giants to play ball (or possibly chunkey) with their lives staked on the outcome. The best Giant player was a woman with long red hair identical to Redhorn's. The little heads on Redhorn's ears caused her to laugh so much that it interfered with her game and the Giants lost. The Giants lost all the other contests as well. Then they challenged Redhorn and his friends to a wrestling match in which they threw all but Red Horn's friend Turtle. Since Redhorn and his fellow spirits lost two out of the three matches, they were all slain. The two wives of Redhorn were pregnant at the time of his death. The sons born to each have red hair, with the older one having heads where his earlobes should be, and the younger one having heads in place of his nipples. The older brother discovers where the Giants keep the heads of Redhorn and his friends. The two boys use their powers to steal the heads from the Giants, whom they wipe out almost completely. The boys bring back to life Redhorn, Storms as He Walks, and Turtle. In honor of this feat, Turtle and \"Storms as He Walks\" promise the boys special weapons.\n\nIn another episode, the sons of Redhorn decide to go on the warpath. The older brother asks \"Storms as He Walks\" for the Thunderbird War bundle. After some effort, it is produced, but the Thunderbirds demand that it have a case. A friend of the sons of Redhorn offers his own body as its case. The boys take the Thunderbird War bundle and with their followers go on a raid to the other side of the sky.\n\nMany S.E.C.C. images seem to be of Red Horn, his companions, and his sons. The characters in the myth seem to be tied integrally to the pipe ceremony, and its association with kinship and adoption. In fact, the Bi-Lobed Arrow Motif may be a graphic depiction of the calumet. Other images found in S.E.C.C. art show figures with long-nosed god maskettes on their ears and in place of their nipples. \nThe Great Serpent (or Horned Serpent) is the most well-known mythological figure from the S.E.C.C. Its roots go back to Hopewell times, if not earlier. It usually is described as horned and winged, although the wings are more an indicator of its celestial origin than an essential form of the creature. In some versions of Shawnee myths, the serpent is described as a multi-headed monster with one green and one red horn, horns being a manifestation or marker of its power. In other myths, it is described as a one-eyed buffalo with one green and one red horn. The Piasa figure of the Miami was painted on a bluff near present-day Alton, Illinois. It was described as having the body of a panther, four legs, a human head, an impossibly long tail and horns.\n\n\"Mishibizhiw\", the Ojibwa underwater panther, was a combination of rattlesnake, cougar, deer, and hawk. Other native peoples also gave descriptions of the being, sometimes now referred to as the \"Spirit Otter\", with the majority seeming to belong to one of two extremes, and a multitude in between.\n\nThe Great Serpents, the great denizens of the Underworld, were described as powerful beings who were in constant antagonism with the forces of the Upper World, usually represented by the Thunderers (Birdmen or Falcon beings). Although men were to be careful of these beings, they could also be the source of great power. A Shawnee myth tells of the capture and dismemberment of \"Msi Kinepikwa\". The pieces were distributed to the five \"septs\" of the tribe, who kept them in their sacred \"medicine bundles\". \nS.E.C.C. motifs have been found on a variety of non-perishable materials, including shell, pottery, carved stone, and copper (Wulfing cache and Etowah plates). Undoubtedly many other materials also were used, but haven't survived the intervening centuries. It may be judged by looking at the remaining artifacts that S.E.C.C. practitioners worked with feathers and designs woven into cloth, practiced body painting, and possibly tattooing, as well as having pierced ears. One surviving painting found on a baked clay floor at the Wickliffe Mounds site suggests they also painted designs in and on their dwellings. Paintings displaying S.E.C.C. imagery also have been found in caves, most notably Mud Glyph Cave in Tennessee. Animal images, serpents, and warrior figures occur, as well as winged warriors, horned snakes, stylized birds, maces, and arrows. Their location underneath the Earth probably reflect aspects of Mississippian myth and cosmology concerning the (perhaps sacred) precincts beneath the earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "3947591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3947591", "title": "St. Bernard de Clairvaux Church", "text": "St. Bernard de Clairvaux Church\n\nSt. Bernard de Clairvaux Church () is a medieval Spanish monastery cloister which was built in the town of Sacramenia in Segovia, Spain, in the 12th century but dismantled in the 20th century and shipped to New York City in the United States. It was eventually reassembled at 16711 West Dixie Highway, North Miami Beach, Florida, where it is now an Episcopal church and tourist attraction called Ancient Spanish Monastery. It is the oldest European-built structure in the Western Hemisphere.\n\nThe Cistercian monastery was constructed during the years 1133–1141.\nIt was originally named \"Monastery of Our Lady, Queen of the Angels\", or the \"Royal Monastery of Saint Mary\" (Spanish: \"Santa María la Real\"), but it was renamed to honor Bernard of Clairvaux upon his canonization. Use of the building as a Cistercian monastery lasted for almost 700 years until it was seized and sold off to be used as a granary and a stable during a period of social unrest in the 1830s.\n\nIt was located in an area known as \"Coto de San Bernardo\" (St. Bernard land preserve), two miles from Sacramenia in the province of Segovia (Spain). The Monasterio was in a mountain region at 830 m above sea level, on a high plateau near the Sierra de Guadarrama, the region is known for extreme weather.\nThe area has medieval churches, chapels, monasteries, walls, castles, within the natural landscape of the Duratón River Gorges.\nThe traditional access to the monastery was an ancient path with the masonry ruins of a watermill. The monastery was constructed with necessary defensive strength among a web of minor fortresses in an area heavily populated by Muslims.\n\nThe monastery was founded by Alfonso VII of Castile and León and built in the traditional style of Cistercian Romanesque architecture in Spain. Alfonso VII had introduced the Cistercians monasteries into Spain and after the monastery's completion, he settled in place Cistercian monks who had come from France. Alfonso VII, and afterward his grandson Alfonso VIII of Castile, extended privileges to the monastery several times in order to exempt rights of way tax for people and goods, and grant freedom of movement for their grazing flocks.\n\nThe Christian conquests and reconquests were followed by migrations of Muslims for religious reasons that could cause the depopulation of entire areas. Muslims had populated the surviving cities that had been founded during the Roman Empire and Visigothic civilization. The area of Segovia had a large Muslim population which resisted the Christian reconquest several times after attempts at cultural assimilation. The newly founded monasteries served, among other things, as centers of evangelization and colonization. Abundant irrigation systems, canals, ditches, and castles had already been constructed during the Muslim era.\nThe Muslim people established their cities on the banks of rivers, because their economy was based on agriculture, concentrating on the cultivation of irrigated land. Some areas of the Pyrenees had not been effectively occupied because of the high altitude, but the traffic of people and goods was controlled by establishing fortified steps at the entrance to the valleys.\n\nBecause of Muslim occupation, the nobles and Christian clergy had settled mostly in the north of present-day Spain, then small independent Christian kingdoms. There they began to organize churches and monasteries around which the Christian communities soon developed. Religious communities revived trade among other Iberian towns especially in wool and salt, also the cultivation of vines and raising of livestock.\nDifferences between newly arrived monks and earlier residents of the area caused altercations concerning the passage of merchant mule caravans, the exploitation of salt, water use in the region's villages, dominion over the towns, pastures, and tithes.\n\nSome parts of the monastery were rebuilt after being destroyed by fire in 1641. The abbey remained an active monastic community until 1835. The monastery was closed about 1836-1840 during Isabella II of Spain's rule as a consequence of the Ecclesiastical Confiscations of Mendizábal. The \"Desamortización\" caused the exclaustration of the place, brought monastic life to an end and the main church was privatized. Its Romanesque abbey church remains one of the monuments of Sacramenia.\n\nThe historic monastery building is for the most part in the United States, that is, the cloister, the chapter house and the refectory of the monks. The rest of the monastic compound, that is, the church and other facilities such as Cilla (mullion) remain privately owned in Spain, in Sacramenia village, although the grounds can be visited on certain days. It was declared a Spanish national monument on June 3, 1931.\n\nThe monastery's cloister and its outbuildings were purchased by William Randolph Hearst in 1925. In order to be transported to the United States, the structures were carefully dismantled, each piece was numbered and packaged in wooden crates lined with hay. The total shipment comprised 11,000 crates. However, some of the information contained in this labeling process was lost when the shipment was quarantined in the USA because of a break-out of hoof and mouth disease in Segovia. During the quarantine, the crates were opened and the hay filling was burned as a measure to prevent the spread of the disease. During the repackaging, the contents of the crates were not replaced correctly. William Randolph Hearst was ultimately unable to pursue his plan of rebuilding the monastery at San Simeon because of financial difficulties. The dismantled buildings were stored in a warehouse in Brooklyn, New York until they were purchased in 1952 by Raymond Moss and William Edgemon, who eventually reassembled them on the site of a small plant nursery in northern Miami. There the religious buildings became a tourist attraction known as the Ancient Spanish Monastery.\n\nRaymond Moss and William Edgemon took charge of the reconstruction of the historic building in 1964. They added other decorative pieces from different Spanish buildings to the original complex, such as the large round carved-stone coat of arms seen in the cloister. The coat of arms originally belonged to the House of Alburquerque and came from the monastery of San Francisco de Cuellar, also in the province of Segovia. The chapel was erected in the 15th century by Beltrán de la Cueva, 1st Duke of Alburquerque, favorite of Henry IV of Castile and the first Duke of Alburquerque to be earmarked for the family vaults, which were also sold in the 20th century after the secularization of the monastery.\nReassembling the ancient monastic buildings took 19 months and cost almost 1.5 million dollars. Some of the original stones remained unused in the process.\n\nThe property was purchased by Bishop Henry I. Louttit in 1964 for the Episcopal Diocese of South Florida, which was later split into the Dioceses of Central, Southeast and Southwest Florida. Eventually financial difficulties forced the three dioceses to sell the monastery, it was purchased by Colonel Robert Pentland, Jr., who gave it to the Episcopal parish of St. Bernard de Clairvaux. Three doors from the monastery are now in a private home in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\n"}
{"id": "28161064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28161064", "title": "St. George Opera House", "text": "St. George Opera House\n\nThe St. George Opera House, also known as the St. George Social Hall, is a historic building in St. George, Utah. It was originally built by the St. George Gardeners' Club as a wine cellar. As wine demand decreased, the building was expanded to host theatrical productions. It operated in this capacity until sold to the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company in 1936. It was restored to an opera house in 1988 and is again open to the public.\n\nIn 1861, Brigham Young sent three hundred Mormon families to the south reaches of Utah Territory to establish a new settlement. Young envisioned a Mormon state that was completely self-sufficient, and one important goal in this regard was the production of cotton. The region settled was much warmer than the northern Salt Lake City, and it was thought that this would be good weather for cotton. Unfortunately for the settlers, this was not the case. The climate was too hot during the summer, producing only small harvests of cotton.\n\nThe original function of the St. George Opera House was a wine cellar. Grape production was an important secondary source of income for the settlers. The St. George Gardeners' Club formed in the mid-1860s to provide community support for farmers. In 1864, as one of their first projects, they built the cellar as a cool place to store surplus wine and to process grapes. It was mostly constructed below-ground along a hillside.\n\nAs wine demand diminished due to closing mines and pressure from the church, new plans were made for the cellar building. The Gardener's Club sold it to the Social Hall Company in the late 1870s. Extensions were added on the top and to the west of the main cellar to create a stage and seating for up to four hundred patrons. The performing arts were an important part of Mormon culture, and Young always ensured that artisans were among the families sent when organizing new settlements. Miles P. Romney was president of the Social Hall Company and the St. George Dramatic Association, occasionally performing in some of the plays. Shortly after it opened, Mormon missionaries shipped materials from a bankrupt opera house in New York City to the St. George Social Hall. The hall hosted its first opera 1886.\n\nThe hall was deeded to the local LDS church in 1900, as it was hopelessly in debt to it. However, the church continued to run productions in it. The Great Depression forced the church to sell the property to the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company in 1936. They used the building to process sugar beet seeds, an important source of income for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They sold the property to the St. George Neighborhood Redevelopment Agency in 1988, who restored the building to again function as an opera house.\n\n"}
{"id": "22265756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22265756", "title": "Symphonic outdoor drama", "text": "Symphonic outdoor drama\n\nThe symphonic outdoor drama is a kind of historical play, set outdoors on the very site depicted in account. It combines music, dance, and drama in a unique way to tell the story. \n\nIt is most like historical pageantry performed in Europe in the Middle Ages. The best known example of a religious pageant in this style is at Oberammergau, Germany. Many big, spectacular stage events became popular in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. These pageants were not exactly plays, but they showed a series of scenes in which historical events followed one another.\n\nThe pageants leading up to the 1937 production of \"The Lost Colony\" were influenced by the event at Oberammergau. People in eastern North Carolina were encouraged to share the history of the lost colony of Roanoke - which had been largely forgotten. The residents of Roanoke Island thought that staging a pageant themselves would share the story with the world. \n\nSouthern playwright and \"Lost Colony\" author Paul Green had a lifelong fascination with theatrical elements, such as dance, language, music, and lighting, and a desire for drama to make a difference in American social life. Under the tutelage of Frederick Koch, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Green was deeply influenced by his ideas about “folk drama” and a concern for ordinary people and their experiences. He was also a close collaborator with musician Lamar Stringfield who published a book of arrangements of Appalachian folk songs with Bascom Lamar Lunsford in 1929 and founded the Institute of Folk Music at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1930. Stringfield provided the original music for the \"Lost Colony\".\n\nPulitzer Prize winner Paul Green wrote those words about \"The Lost Colony\" in 1938, a year after its debut. By then, America's first outdoor symphonic drama was a critical and popular success, proof that \"people's theatre\" could work. But it wasn't always a guaranteed success.\n\nIn addition to receiving the 1927 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for his Broadway play \"In Abraham's Bosom\" — remarkable for the time in its serious depiction of the plight of African Americans in the South — Green created and spread this new dramatic form.\n"}
{"id": "37026607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37026607", "title": "The Discovery of the Future", "text": "The Discovery of the Future\n\nThe Discovery of the Future is a 1902 philosophical lecture by H. G. Wells that argues for the knowability of the future. It was originally delivered to the Royal Institution on January 24, 1902. Before appearing in book form, it was published by Richard Gregory in \"Nature\" on February 6, 1902, and was also published as part of the \"Annual Report\" of the Smithsonian Institution. Available online.\n\nWells begins by distinguishing between \"two divergent types of mind,\" one that judges and attaches importance principally to what has happened in the past and one that judges and attaches importance principally to what will happen in the future. To the former he attributes the adjectives \"legal or submissive,\" \"passive,\" and \"oriental,\" and to the latter the adjectives \"legislative, creative, organizing, or masterful,\" and \"active,\" calling it \"a more modern and much less abundant type of mind.\"\n\nObserving that these two minds reach \"divergent and incompatible consequences\" in the spheres of morality and public affairs, Wells analyzes the reasons for which the past-oriented mind predominates and asserts that this is principally due to the evidently greater knowability of the personal past as compared to the future. But he argues that the inference from this attitude that the future is essentially unknowable does not square with \"modern science, that is to say the relentless systematic criticism of phenomena.\" Not only has science made us knowledgeable about a distant, impersonal past, it also regards the ability successfully to predict to be a criterion of validity. Though the unpredictability of human behavior complicates the problem, the fact that \"as individuals increase in number they begin to average out\" means that \"an inductive knowledge of a great number of things in the future is becoming a human possibility.\" Confessing himself to be among \"those who believe entirely in the forces behind the individual\" rather than in individuals themselves as determining causes, Wells argues that there is \"no reason why we should not aspire to, and discover and use, safe and servicable, generalizations upon countless issues in the human destiny.\" But personal prophecy and fortune-telling will never be possible; \"the knowledge of the future we may hope to gain will be general and not individual.\"\n\nWells devotes the last part of his text to speculations about \"the question what is to come after man,\" considering it \"the most persistently fascinating and the most insoluble question in the whole world.\" He concludes with a statement of personal faith \"in the coherency and purpose in the world and in the greatness of human destiny.\"\n\nWells's lecture followed on the heels of the great success of his recent book, \"Anticipations\" (1901), based on a series of articles commissioned in 1900 by W.L. Courtney for the \"Fortnightly Review\", but the original invitation to lecture to the Royal Institution had come in 1899.\n\nAccording to Graham Wallas, Wells's delivery of his lecture was too rapid, but it was well received and contributed to the rapid integration of the 35-year-old Wells into the literary and intellectual elite of London in 1902.\n"}
{"id": "7054369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7054369", "title": "The Reluctant Fundamentalist", "text": "The Reluctant Fundamentalist\n\nThe Reluctant Fundamentalist is a novel by Pakistani author Mohsin Hamid, published in 2007.\n\nThe novel uses the technique of a frame story, which takes place during the course of a single evening in an outdoor Lahore cafe, where a bearded Pakistani man called Changez tells a nervous American stranger about his love affair with an American woman, and his eventual abandonment of America. A short story adapted from the novel, called \"Focus on the Fundamentals,\" appeared in the fall 2006 issue of \"The Paris Review\". A film adaptation of the novel by director Mira Nair premiered at the 2012 Venice Film Festival.\n\nThe story begins on the streets of Lahore. A Pakistani man, Changez, offers to direct an American visitor where he can find a good cup of tea. As they wait for their tea, Changez begins to weave a long story about his life, especially his time living in the United States - in between making remarks about the history, landmarks and society of Lahore, his native city which he loves and of which he is proud. The unnamed American is restless but remains to listen.\n\nChangez tells the American he was an excellent student who, after completing his bachelor's degree in Finance, joined Underwood Samson, a consultancy firm, as an analyst. After graduating from Princeton University, he vacationed in Greece with fellow Princetonians, where he met Erica, an aspiring writer. He was instantly smitten by her, but his feelings remained almost unrequited because she was still grieving over the death of her childhood sweetheart Chris, who succumbed to lung cancer. After a date, they return to his place and he proceeds to have sex with her, but stops because her emotional attachment to Chris prevents her from becoming aroused. After this incident there is an interlude where neither contact each other. But soon they go on another date, after which they have sex when Changez convinces Erica to close her eyes and fantasize that she is with Chris. Though Changez is satisfied at this development in their relationship, this irreversibly damages their relationship. Soon she begins treatment in a mental institution. He notices she is physically emaciated and no longer her former self. After this meeting he travels to Chile on an assignment. When he returns to meet her, it is found that she has left the institution and her clothes were found near the Hudson River. Officially she is stated as a missing person, as her body has not been found.\n\nIn his professional life, he impresses his peers and gets earmarked by his superiors for his work, especially Jim, the person who recruited him, develops a good rapport with him, and holds him in high esteem. This prompts the firm to send him to offshore assignments in the Philippines and Valparaíso, Chile. In Chile, he is very distracted due to developments in the world and, responding to the parabolic suggestion of the publisher his company is there to assess (which would lead to its break up), he visits the nearby preserved home of the late left-wing poet Pablo Neruda and comes to see himself as a servant of the American empire that has constantly interfered with and manipulated his homeland. He returns from Chile to New York without completing the assignment and ends up losing his job.\n\nPolitically, Changez is surprised by his own reaction to the September 11th attacks. \"Yes, despicable as it may sound, my initial reaction was to be remarkably pleased\", he tells the American. He observes the air of suspicion towards Pakistanis. Changez, due to his privileged position in society, is not among those detained or otherwise abused, but he notices a change in his treatment in public. To express solidarity with his countrymen after his trip to Chile, he starts to grow a beard. After the 2001 Indian Parliament attack, India and Pakistan mobilize leading to a standoff. Noticing the US response to this situation, he has an epiphany that his country is being used as a pawn. With no job, an expiring visa and no reason to stay in the United States, he moves back to Lahore.\n\nAfter returning to Lahore, he becomes a professor of finance at the local university. His experience and insight in world issues gains his admiration among students. As a result, he becomes a mentor to large groups of students on various issues. He and his students actively participate in demonstrations against policies that were detrimental to the sovereignty of Pakistan. Changez advocates nonviolence, but a relatively unknown student gets apprehended for an assassination attempt on an American representative, which brings the spotlight on Changez. In a widely televised interview, he strongly criticizes the militarism of U.S. foreign policy. This act makes people surrounding him think that someone might be sent to intimidate him or worse.\n\nAs they sit in the cafe, Changez keeps noting that the American stranger is very apprehensive of their surroundings, that he is in possession of a sophisticated satellite phone on which he is repeatedly messaging, and that under his clothing there is a bulge which might be a gun. Changez walks the stranger toward his hotel. As they walk, the American, now highly suspicious that he is in immediate danger, reaches into his pocket, possibly for a gun. Changez says he trusts it is simply his holder of business cards. But the novel ends without revealing what was in his pocket, leaving the reader to wonder if the stranger was a CIA agent, possibly there to kill Changez, or if Changez, in collusion with the waiter from the cafe, had planned all along to do harm to the American.\n\n\"The Reluctant Fundamentalist\" is an example of a dramatic monologue. as well as being Auto-Digetic.\n\nThe novel was shortlisted for the 2007 Booker Prize, Howard Davies commenting at the time it was an 'unofficial runner-up' at a lecture at LSE. It also won an Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, the South Bank Show Annual Award for Literature, and several other awards. \"The Guardian\" selected it as one of the books that defined the decade. Acclaimed critic Sam Mulcahy also gave the book a good review\n\nThe novel became a million-copy international best-seller. It reached #4 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list.\nBBC Radio 4 began broadcasting an abridged version on 22 August 2011, read by British actor Riz Ahmed.\n\nIn 2007, Davidson College assigned this book to all incoming freshmen as a topic for later discussion during Freshman Orientation. This book kicked off the theme of the school's 2007-08 year, which focused on diversity. In 2008, Tulane University gave the novel to all new undergraduates as part of the Tulane University Reading Project. In 2009, the University of St Andrews announced that they would be sending a free copy of \"The Reluctant Fundamentalist\" to all of 1,500 new undergraduates as part of a new incentive to \"offer students a common topic for discussion and focus energies on reading and intellectual debate\". In 2010, Washington University in St. Louis gave the book to each of its incoming freshmen, as a part of the \"Freshmen Reading Program.\" Georgetown University chose this book for incoming freshmen's summer reading. Ursinus College has incorporated the novel into their unique Common Intellectual Experience for freshmen students. Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas uses the book in all honors rhetoric classes for first-year students. Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa and Siena College in Loudonville, New York use the novel as an introduction to their First Year Seminar programs. Lehigh University assigned all incoming freshman this novel in 2012. Rollins College has assigned this novel to their incoming freshmen as part of their summer reading program. The University of Evansville in Indiana uses the novel as a tool in the freshman First Year Seminar program. This program has the purpose of engaging incoming first-year students to topics of leadership and citizenship. Bucknell University chose it for the first year common reading for the Class of 2018.\n\nA film directed by Mira Nair, based on the book, premiered in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "47456091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47456091", "title": "The Sense of an Ending (film)", "text": "The Sense of an Ending (film)\n\nThe Sense of an Ending is a 2017 British-American mystery drama film directed by Ritesh Batra and written by Nick Payne, based on the novel of the same name by Julian Barnes. The film stars Jim Broadbent, Charlotte Rampling, Harriet Walter, Emily Mortimer and Michelle Dockery.\n\nThe film had its world premiere at the Palm Springs International Film Festival on 2 January 2017. It was released in the United States on 10 March 2017, by CBS Films and Lionsgate, and in the United Kingdom on 14 April 2017, by StudioCanal.\n\nAn elderly divorcé Anthony 'Tony' Webster (Jim Broadbent) runs a camera shop in London and lives a mostly sedate life. One day, his ex-wife, Margaret (Harriet Walter) asks him to accompany their pregnant daughter, Susie (Michelle Dockery) to her prenatal birthing class. After dropping her home, he reads a letter he has received earlier that day. It is from the estate of the recently deceased Mrs. Sarah Ford, the mother of a former girlfriend whom he met in the 1960s while at university. He is left 500 pounds and two documents, the first is a letter somewhat explaining an unwarranted gift. The second document is still with Tony's former girlfriend and Sarah's daughter, Veronica Ford. Tony is confused why the mother of an ex-girlfriend whom he only met once decades ago would leave him something in her will.\n\nWhile having lunch with Margaret, he reveals for the first time his relationship with Veronica and his one-time meeting with her mother, Sarah. Seeing that Tony speaks highly of both of them, Margaret jokingly asks which one of them did he sleep with. To which he comments neither one. He then reminisces about his time at school. In Sixth Form, Tony was a handsome but self-conscious young man. He (Billy Howle) and his two best friends accept a new member into their group, Adrian Finn (Joe Alwyn), a highly intelligent boy who enjoys arguing with their teacher and considers himself an intellectual. During their time at school a classmate, Robson, dies from what many believe to be suicide after his girlfriend became pregnant. Drawing on the philosophy of French existentialist Albert Camus, the friends discuss the philosophical meaning of suicide, coming to the conclusion that Robson did not die for the right reasons. \n\nAfter the boys graduate and go their own ways, Adrian earns a full ride to Cambridge while Tony is accepted into the University of Bristol. Tony meets and begins a relationship with Veronica Ford (Freya Mavor). After some time, she takes him to meet her family. Her father, David Ford (James Wilby) and brother, Jack Ford (Edward Holcroft), are a little crude but friendly. However, her mother, Sarah Ford (Emily Mortimer), is very attractive and even flirts with Tony. At dinner, Tony tells Jack, who studies at Cambridge, that his best friend Adrian also studies there, but Jack does not know who that is. Later that night, Tony masturbates in the bathroom following a goodnight kiss from Veronica.\n\nThe next morning, Tony wakes up and finds that Veronica, Jack and David have left for a walk, leaving him and Sarah alone in the house. As she fixes him breakfast, Sarah flirts with Tony and then subtly warns him about Veronica's true nature, but he does not immediately get it. As Tony is leaving, Sarah responds to Tony’s goodbye wave with a mysterious horizontal gesture at waist level. Tony is unsure if she is waving goodbye to him or offering him a signal or warning. \n\nWhen Tony returns to university, Veronica visits him to meet Adrian and the rest of their friends. They have a good time, but later on, Veronica breaks up with Tony. He later receives a letter from Adrian requesting his blessing for a romantic relationship he has begun with Veronica, to which Tony reacts strongly. He decides to respond positively at first. However, he then writes a new response, harsh and unrelenting, speaking of Veronica being damaged and how even her mother warned him about her, but without any real reasoning behind this accusations. He also writes how he wishes they will have a child together, and the child will have to pay for its parents' sins. He never hears back from either of them after that. \n\nA few years later, Tony meets up with his two best friends from Sixth Form and they inform him that Adrian has committed suicide. They explain how Adrian seemed happy and in love at first, presumably with Veronica, whom he got together with after Tony introduced them both. Tony argues that Veronica could have met Adrian through her brother, Jack who also studies at Cambridge. However, his friends point out how Adrian and Veronica had an instant connection when he first introduced them and it was then that their affair started. Following Adrian's suicide, the three friends go their separate ways. Tony later meets Margaret, marries her and settles down. \n\nIn present day, Tony goes to meet Sarah Ford's lawyer and learns that the second document is Adrian's diary. Tony reconnects with his two Sixth Form friends and they help him in locating Veronica, plus requesting the diary and an explanation. Veronica (Charlotte Rampling) replies to the email and they set up a meeting. Their meeting does not go well as it is apparent that Veronica is still angry at him. She explains that she has burned the diary and leaves after handing Tony a letter. It turns out to be the angry letter he wrote to her and Adrian. In other words, Veronica destroyed the diary that was in possession of her mother at the time of her death, yet chose to keep Tony's letter, which clearly was written out of hurt and frustration. Tony is clearly confused about what drove Adrian to commit suicide, and the frustration is even greater knowing that the diary destroyed by Veronica would have helped to explain what led his best friend to take his own life. While spying on Veronica, Tony sees her with a mentally unstable young man with red hair like Adrian, and starts to believe it is their son. However Tony later learns that Adrian Jr. is not Veronica's son but her younger half-brother. Tony immediately assumes it is the son of Veronica's mother, Sarah and Adrian Sr. \n\nA few days later, Tony's daughter Susie goes into labor and gives birth to a healthy baby boy she names Joshua. Some time later Tony writes to Veronica, apologizing to her for what he has done. She receives the letter, and we see her in profile as she reads it.\n\n\nOn 8 February 2015, it was announced that Ritesh Batra would next direct a drama for Origin Pictures and BBC Films, based on the Julian Barnes' novel \"The Sense of an Ending\", and scripted by Nick Payne. On 11 May 2015, Jim Broadbent was cast in the film for the lead role, which BBC Films and FilmNation Entertainment would be financing, and FilmNation also handling the international sales. David M. Thompson and Ed Rubin of Origin Pictures would finance the film. On 6 August 2015, an ensemble cast was announced including Charlotte Rampling, Harriet Walter, Emily Mortimer, Michelle Dockery, Billy Howle, Freya Mavor, and Joe Alwyn. Lipsync Productions would also co-finance the film along with BBC Films and FilmNation Entertainment. On 8 September 2015 CBS Films acquired the US distribution rights to the film.\n\nPrincipal photography on the film began on 8 September 2015 in London and Bristol. Filming lasted for seven weeks.\n\nIt had its world premiere at the Palm Springs International Film Festival on 2 January 2017. The film was released in the United States on 10 March 2017 and in the United Kingdom on 14 April 2017.\n\n\"The Sense of an Ending\" grossed $1.3 million in the United States and Canada and $3.2 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $4.5 million.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 74% based on 105 reviews, with an average rating of 6.4/10. The site's critical consensus states, \"Anchored by a strong starring performance by Jim Broadbent, \"The Sense of an Ending\" proves consistently gripping even as it skims the narrative surface of its literary source material.\" On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 61 out of 100, based on 24 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14961741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14961741", "title": "Théâtre Graslin", "text": "Théâtre Graslin\n\nThe Théâtre Graslin is a theatre and opera house in the city of Nantes in France. Created in a new district of the city in the late 18th Century by the local architect Mathurin Crucy and named after the owner of the land, Jean-Louis Graslin. Built in the Italian style, the auditorium holds 823 people.\n\nInaugurated on 23 March 1788 it quickly became a major opera house for the city which nowadays, along with the \"Grand Théâtre d'Angers\", combines with Angers to form a joint Angers-Nantes opera.\n\nUnfortunately, it was destroyed by fire 1796, but it was reconstructed to coincide with the 1811 visit by Emperor Napoléon 1st. It was restored again in 2003 and continues to be used for opera and other performances.\n\n"}
{"id": "28204546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28204546", "title": "Tomb effigy", "text": "Tomb effigy\n\nA tomb effigy, usually a recumbent effigy or in French gisant (French, “recumbent”) is a sculpted figure on a tomb monument depicting in effigy the deceased. Such compositions, developed in Western Europe in the Middle Ages, continuing into Renaissance, and early modern times, and still sometimes used. They typically represent the deceased in a state of \"eternal repose\", lying with hands folded in prayer and awaiting resurrection. A husband and wife may be depicted lying side by side. An important official or leader may be shown holding his attributes of office or dressed in the formal attire of his official status or social class.\n\nThe life-size recumbent effigy was first found in the tombs of royalty and senior clerics, and then spread to the nobility. A particular type of late medieval effigy was the \"transi\", or cadaver tomb, in which the effigy is in the macabre form of a decomposing corpse, or such a figure lies on a lower level, beneath a more conventional effigy. In the same period small figures of mourners called weepers or \"pleurants\" were added below the effigy to important tombs. In the Early Modern period European effigies are often shown as alive, and either kneeling or in a more active pose, especially for military figures. During the Renaissance, other non-recumbent types of effigy became more popular. Variations showed the deceased lying on their side as if reading, kneeling in prayer and even standing. The recumbent effigy had something of a vogue during the Gothic revival period of the 19th century, especially for bishops and other clerics. Many graves at Monument Cemetery in Milan have recumbent figures.\n\nSome of the best-known examples of the form are in Westminster Abbey in London, Saint Peter's in Rome, Santi Giovanni e Paolo, Venice (twenty-five Doges), and the Basilica of Santa Croce, Florence.\n\nA celebrated poem describing and reflecting on a stone effigy is \"An Arundel Tomb\" by Philip Larkin.\n\nRecumbent effigies were a common tradition in Etruscan funerary art, examples are known in both ceramic and stone. The deceased was typically depicted alive as at a feast, lying sideways, propped up on one arm and sometimes holding a cup. Usually these were rather smaller than life-size. The Romans continued this tradition, though they also created many other types of funerary effigy. Their faces are often clearly portraits of individuals.\n\nThe first medieval gisants emerged in the 12th century. They were executed in low relief, and were horizontal, but appeared as in life. The faces were generalized rather than portraits. Gradually these became full high-relief effigies, usually recumbent, as in death, and, by the 14th century, with hands together in prayer. In general, such monumental effigies were carved in stone, marble or wood, or cast in bronze or brass. Often the stone effigies were painted to simulate life, but in the majority of the medieval monuments, this has long since disappeared. The cross-legged attitude of many English armoured figures of the late 13th or early 14th centuries was long supposed to imply that the deceased had served in the Crusades, had taken crusading vows, or more specifically had been a Knight Templar; but these theories are now rejected by scholars. \n\nBy the early 13th century, effigies began to be raised on tomb-style chests (known as tomb chests or altar tombs) decorated with foliage, heraldry or architectural detailing. Soon such chests also stood alone with varying degrees of decoration. By the end of the century, these often had architectural canopies and figured \"weepers\" or \"mourners\" — representing friends or relatives and identified by their coats of arms — were popular decorative features.\n\nIn Britain the \"large-scale production of military effigies\" began in the middle of the 13th century, as the result of the \"emergence of a new patron class\" of knights, who were fewer in number but wealthier than before.\n\nAnother late medieval fashion was to show the person in an advanced state of decomposition, perhaps as a secondary effigy. This type of tomb is known as a \"transi\".\n\nIn Spain the iconography of Christ lying (Cristo yacente), as though an effigy, was very popular until the late 18th century. One of the famous sculptures famous for this iconography was Gregorio Fernández, see: Cristo Yacente of El Pardo.\n\nA late example of a stone effigy is that of T. E. Lawrence (\"Lawrence of Arabia\") by Eric Kennington, in St Martin's Church, Wareham, Dorset, installed in 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "13873833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13873833", "title": "Valerie Ahern", "text": "Valerie Ahern\n\nValerie Ahern is an American television screenwriter and producer.\n\nShe has written episodes for a number of television series since 1995 including \"The Young and the Restless\" (July 27, 2007 – November 29, 2007; April 4, 2008 - July 7, 2008), \"Clueless\", \"Desperate Housewives\", \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\", \"Drawn Together\", \"The Parent 'Hood\", \"Renovate My Family\", \"Hot Properties\", \"Spyder Games (head writer)\" and \"The Crew\". She has served as executive story editor for many episodes of \"Clueless\" and story editor for \"Married... with Children\". She has also produced an additional five episodes of \"Hot Properties\". Her writing partner is Christian McLaughlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "13073970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13073970", "title": "Vari Cave", "text": "Vari Cave\n\nThe Vari Cave, also known as the Nympholyptos Cave (), is a small cave northeast of Vari in Attica, Greece. In classical antiquity the cave was used as a shrine dedicated to Apollo, Pan and the Nymphs. The cave was occupied from the sixth to second century BC. The cave then fell into disuse until it was occupied again in the fourth century AD. It was finally abandoned in approximately the sixth century. The cave was excavated in 1901.\n\nIt lies near the top of one of the southern spurs of Mount Hymettus at an altitude of almost 300 meters. From Vari, it can be reached on foot in one hour. The cave is unique in Greece because of its rock-cut sculptures. The marble votive tablets from the cave are now exhibited at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens.\n\nBecause of its use for the veneration of Pan the cave is also called the Cave of Pan. It was one of the five caves of Pan in the vicinity of ancient Athens.\n\nAccording to inscriptions found in the cave, the sanctuary was built by Archedemus of Thera. He identified himself as a nympholept and states that he built the sanctuary \"at the Nymph's counsel\". Archedemus has a cross on his right shoulder that has as yet found no explanation. \n\nUnlike many other caves, prehistoric remains were not found. The earliest inscription found in the cave was dated to approximately the beginning of the sixth century BC. A relief depicting Archedemus is dated to approximately 400 BC, most likely during the apex of the sanctuary's popularity. A second-century coin from Athens found in the cave provides evidence that it was continuously occupied from about 600 BC to 150 BC.\n\nFor the next four or five centuries the cave apparently fell into disuse because material dated to this period was not found. Coins found in the cave suggest that a new period of occupation began in the time of the Roman Empire, approximately during the reign of Constantine the Great (307–337 AD). Based on the number of coins found, the sanctuary became even more popular during the reign of his successor, Constantius II (337–361 AD). Coins indicate the sanctuary was still visited during the time of Arcadius (395–408 AD). Because no remains of later dates were found the cave was abandoned after this time. The absence of remains of offerings with significant value means the cave had probably always been a sanctuary for poor people.\n\nA large number of Roman oil lamps with Christian designs were found in the cave. The excavators dated these to the same period as the coins, the fourth and early fifth century. Many remains of the first period of occupation, especially the reliefs, were found destroyed. The oil lamps and deliberate destruction of pagan sculptures led the excavators to the conclusion that the cave became a Christian shrine in the second period of occupation.\n\nThe site is not mentioned by any ancient writer. However, there is inconclusive evidence that Claudius Aelianus and Olympiodorus the Younger describe the cave. They write that the infant Plato was taken to a spot on Mount Hymettus by his parents Ariston and Perictione. His parents performed sacrifices on his behalf to Pan, Apollo, the Muses and the Nymphs. Even though the reliability of both late authors is questionable, the list of deities is nearly identical with those known to be honored in the cave.\n\nMore recent research disputes the interpretation of the cave as a Christian site. According to the latest evidence there were no Attic oil lamps with Christian designs until the fifth century. The small number of more sophisticated Christian oil lamps probably date to the sixth century. More importantly, the presence of Christian oil lamps does not imply the site was Christian. Elsewhere in the Roman Empire pagans used Christian oil lamps when non-Christian ones were not available. A remote cave like the one near Vari would have made a suitable location for continuing pagan religious practice in secret after the Empire started persecuting pagans. If Christians smashed the sculptures, it most likely happened at the end of the reoccupation rather than its beginning. Instead, it was possible that the pagan Platonists of late Roman Athens would have frequented the site due to its association with Plato.\n\nThe opening of the cave descends vertically. From the opening approximately a dozen steps are cut in the ridge at the western end, which are now broken. After these steps comes a landing from which the two rooms of the cave are visible, separated by a large rock partition.\n\nFrom the landing another set of ancient stairs take the visitor to a position at the upper side of the larger room. The largest shrine of the cave is found here. The shrine is dedicated to Pan and looks a like a rough imitation of the facade of a temple. A headless seated figure and an object with a shape resembling an omphalos are hewn from the rock in this room, but they are too damaged to be identified.\n\nAfter descending more steps a rock-cut shrine to Apollo Hersus is found towards the bottom of the cave. Next to this shrine is the rock-cut image of Archemus who is crudely depicted as a stonecutter with his tools.\n\nRichard Chandler was the first scientist to visit and report on the cave in 1765. Through the 19th century the cave was visited by more scholars, but it was not until 1901 that it was excavated. The excavation was led by Charles Heald Weller of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1676527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676527", "title": "Vernissage", "text": "Vernissage\n\nA vernissage (from French, originally meaning “varnishing”) is a term used for a preview of an art exhibition, which may be private, before the formal opening. If the vernissage is not open to the public, but only for invited guests, it is often called a \"private view\".\n\nAt official exhibitions in the nineteenth century, such as the Royal Academy summer exhibition, artists would give a finishing touch to their works by varnishing them. The custom of patrons and the élite of visiting the academies during the varnishing day prior to the formal opening of the exhibition gave rise to the tradition of celebrating the completion of an art work or a series of art works with friends and sponsors. In the twentieth century it became an opportunity to market the works on view to buyers and critics.\n\nThere is a comparable ceremonial ending of art exhibitions, called a \"finissage\", from the French word meaning \"finishing\". Larger art exhibitions may also have an event halfway through their residency called a \"midissage\". These latter terms are rare in English; they are more commonly used in German but not in French. \nThe term \"finissage\" was first used in this context in 2003 by Walter Hilliger and Sabine Sallarsaïb for Geheimat Multinational Gallery in Berlin, Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26157189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26157189", "title": "Vivat ribbons", "text": "Vivat ribbons\n\nVivat ribbons () were silk ribbons issued to raise money for the Red Cross in Germany and Austria during World War I. \n\nRibbons had printed patriotic messages which celebrated battles and important events, as well as royalty and the military leaders. They were designed by many famous German artists of the period. Most ribbons had the same size and followed the same design pattern with word \"\"!\" (\"Long live!\") printed on top, followed by unique text and graphic below. The bottom of the ribbon showed \"\" (\"To the benefit of the Red Cross; Verlag Amsler & Ruthardt; Berlin W8\"\") text, since they were released by the German Red Cross to raise funds for war relief. During World War I 200 thousands ribbons were sold and they become popular collectors items.\n\n"}
{"id": "13344348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13344348", "title": "Wall of Discovery", "text": "Wall of Discovery\n\nThe Wall of Discovery is an environmental artwork that includes a 253-foot-long printed \"blackboard\" located in the center of the Scholars Walk on the University of Minnesota campus. This installation was designed to celebrate the discoveries, inventions and creations of alumni and faculty of the University that have brought significant changes to the world in which we live.\n\nThe method used to capture the work was first to create an extensive list of notable U of M graduates in as many fields as possible. Extensive research was done by Minneapolis design firm LA ink that led to the finding of many original hand written notes and diagrams chronicling the discoveries by these scholars. The documents were then scanned and retouched, pixel by pixel, until they looked as if they were rendered in chalk on a chalkboard. 20 Glass edge lit panels were also designed to both illuminate the walkway and possibly inspire current students toward future discoveries.\n\nAn installation of this nature has never before been attempted by a major institution like the University of Minnesota.\n\nThe Artwork was submitted to the SEGD design competition in 2007 and won their \"Honor Award\" the highest achievement category. That same year it also received the AIA Minnesota Honor Award.\n\nOver 100 alumni and faculty from the University of Minnesota are represented on the wall a few of whom are:\n\n"}
{"id": "45124496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45124496", "title": "Xicalcoliuhqui", "text": "Xicalcoliuhqui\n\nThe word \"xicalcoliuhqui\" () means \"twisted gourd\" (\"xical\"- \"gourdbowl\" and \"coliuhqui\" \"twisted\") in Nahuatl. The motif is associated with many ideas, and is variously thought to depict water, waves, clouds, lightning, a serpent or serpent-deity like the mythological fire or feathered serpents, as well as more philosophical ideas like cyclical movement, or the life-giving connection between the light of the sun and the earth, and it may have been a protection against death, but no single meaning is universally accepted. It is also possible that the motif represents the cut conch shell which is an emblem of Ehecatl, the wind god, an aspect of Quetzalcoatl. It seems likely that the multivalent nature of the symbol gave rise to its potency and longevity.\n\n \"Xicalcoliuhqui chimalli\", are shields featuring a single iteration of the stepped fret motif which were painted or covered with featherwork. They are depicted frequently in the Codex Mendoza, and many other central Mexican codices, usually with the xicalcoliuhqui design shown in yellow and green.\n\n The xicalcoliuhqui motif appears in embellishments on temples and other buildings at archaeological sites around Mexico.\n\n"}
