{"id": "45439707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45439707", "title": "Anti-deprivation rule", "text": "Anti-deprivation rule\n\nThe anti-deprivation rule (also known as fraud upon the bankruptcy law) is a principle applied by the courts in common law jurisdictions (other than the United States) in which, according to Mellish LJ in \"Re Jeavons, ex parte Mackay\", \"a person cannot make it a part of his contract that, in the event of bankruptcy, he is then to get some additional advantage which prevents the property being distributed under the bankruptcy laws.\" Wood VC had earlier observed that \"the law is too clearly settled to admit of a shadow of doubt that no person possessed of property can reserve that property to himself until he shall become bankrupt, and then provide that, in the event of his becoming bankrupt, it shall pass to another and not to his creditors.\" \n\nIt arises from the general principle (known as the \"rule against repugnancy\" in property law) that a grantor may not derogate from his own grant by giving an absolute interest in an asset and then providing for it to be clawed back otherwise than for fair value in stated eventualities, including (but not limited to) bankruptcy and winding up. This is considered to consist of several branches:\n\"Belmont Park Investments Pty Ltd v BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd and Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc\" observed that the general principle consists of two subrules the anti-deprivation rule and the \"pari passu\" rule, which are addressed to different mischiefs and held that, in borderline cases, a commercially sensible transaction entered into in good faith should not be held to infringe the first rule. The relationship between the two rules was expanded upon later by Longmore LJ in \"Lomas v JFB Firth Rixson Inc\":\n\nIn 2012, the Chancery Division, in assessing the football creditors rule, held that it was valid and did not violate either the anti-deprivation rule or the \"pari passu\" rule. In his judgment, Richards J, relying on \"Belmont Park\", declared:\n\nWith respect to the anti-deprivation rule, Patten LJ has observed that \"the individual bankrupt or insolvent company may not contract at any time, either before or after the making of the bankruptcy or winding-up order, for its property subsisting at that date to be disposed of or dealt with otherwise than in accordance with the statute.\" It is argued that this rule can therefore be subdivided into two branches: the \"insolvency-triggered deprivation\" rule looks to disposals, and the \"contracting out\" rule to dealings. These subrules target two distinct strategies that a debtor might pursue:\n\n\nAll these anti-avoidance rules are, however, subject to the very large exception that creditors remain able to jump up the priority queue, through the creation of a security interest.\n\nCertain types of arrangements are not considered to offend the rule:\n\nOther types are normally considered to offend:\n\nThis case arises infrequently, but it did so notably in \"British Eagle International Air Lines Ltd v Compaigne Nationale Air France\". Several principles arise from it:\n\n\nIn \"Lomas v JFB Firth Rixson Inc\" it was argued that certain provisions in standard form ISDA Master Agreement might offend against the rule; specifically that if an Event of Default (as defined) suspended the right of the Defaulting Party to receive payment indefinitely, then that would mean that if the Non-Defaulting Party went into liquidation, the operating effect of the provision was to deprive the company's creditors of assets as a consequence of it going into liquidation. However the Court of Appeal considered the principles outlined in \"Belmont Park Investments Pty Ltd v BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd\", and held that \"If this is the touchstone then it is difficult to see how Section 2(a)(iii) of the Master Agreement can be said to offend against the anti-deprivation principle. ... There is no suggestion that it was formulated in order to avoid the effect of any insolvency law or to give the non-defaulting party a greater or disproportionate return as a creditor of the bankrupt estate.\"\n\nThis subrule has been described by Cotton LJ as holding that \"there cannot be a valid contract that a man's property shall remain his until his bankruptcy, and on the happening of that event shall go over to someone else, and be taken away from his creditors.\" This is considered to be a true anti-deprivation rule, and several issues arise from it:\n\n\nThe Canadian courts have extended this further, declaring that termination clauses that are triggered where non-payment of obligations is indirectly caused by the debtor’s insolvency should be deemed to have been caused by the insolvency.\n\n"}
{"id": "485929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485929", "title": "Australian Competition and Consumer Commission", "text": "Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\n\nThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) is an independent authority of the Australian government. It was established in 1995 with the amalgamation of the Australian Trade Practices Commission (TPC) and the Prices Surveillance Authority to administer the \"Trade Practices Act 1974\" (TPA) (Cth) (renamed the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 on 1 January 2011). Its mandate is to protect consumer rights, business rights and obligations, perform industry regulation and price monitoring and prevent illegal anti-competitive behaviour.\n\nThe ACCC's deeper origins are found in the Restrictive Trade Practices Act of Sir Garfield Barwick, Attorney-General in the Liberal Government of Sir Robert Menzies in 1965. Opponents derided Barwick’s Trade Practices Act 1965 as “ineffectual”.\n\nThough acknowledged as an abject failure, nevertheless Barwick’s Act had established in Australian Law “the principle of legislative coverage of trade practices”. The area badly needed reform. Attorney-General in the Whitlam Labor Government Lionel Murphy solicited the advice and help of the eminent economist and business commentator, Professor Ted Wheelwright. In April 1973 Wheelwright produced a report for Murphy which became the blueprint of the coming legislation. He recommended, inter alia, that the Act be clearly focused on protecting the consumer.\n\nLionel Murphy is acknowledged as completely changing the previous approach regarding trade practices in Australia. His Trade Practices Bill, which was passed on August 6, 1974, for the first time in Australian Federal law, introduced offences concerning monopolisation, exclusive dealing, price discrimination, resale price maintenance, restraints of trade by agreement, anti-competitive mergers, misleading advertising, coercive sales conduct, pyramid selling and the sale of unsolicited goods.\n\nEven though, concomitantly, the Act introduced substantial penalties, Murphy’s initiative, surprisingly, received very little opposition in the Parliament or the business community.\n\nThe ACCC administers the Competition and Consumer Act, and has standing to take action in the Federal Court of Australia to enforce its provision. The Competition and Consumer Act is a broad range of provisions, such as provisions on anti-competitive conduct, the Australian Consumer Law and regulation of telecommunications and energy industries. The ACCC, under the Act, also regulates certain industries by providing access to national infrastructure. The ACCC also has an educative role and seeks to educate both consumers and businesses as to their rights and responsibilities under the act.\n\nThe Australian Energy Regulator is a constituent but separate part of the ACCC and is responsible for economic energy regulation. It shares staff and premises with the ACCC, but has a separate board, although at least one board member must also be a Commissioner at the ACCC.\n\nIn most cases the spirit of the act, and thus the actions of the ACCC, favours neither consumer nor supplier, but strives to achieve a competitive market without artificial restrictions. For example, refusal to deal – a producer refusing to supply a potential retailer or customer with a product – is not itself illegal unless the action would have an anti-competitive effect on the market as a whole.\n\nThe ACCC is committed in bringing court actions against companies that breach the Competition and Consumer Act. Penalties for non-compliance of the CCA can be quite severe.\n\nCompanies that do not comply with the restrictive trade practices provisions of CCA may be fined by the Federal Court. There are three ways the maximum fine can be calculated. The maximum possible fine is the larger of A$10,000,000; or three times the value of the illegal benefit; or (if the value of the benefit cannot be ascertained) 10% of turnover for the preceding 12 months. Individuals may be fined up to $500,000 and since 2009 certain offences under the Competition and Consumer Act (such as price fixing or participation in a cartel) have been criminalised with executives who engage in conduct which contravenes the relevant provisions liable for a custodial sentence of up to 10 years in prison (44ZZRF and 44ZZRG of the CCA).\n\nCompanies that do not comply with the consumer protection provisions of CCA may be fined by the Federal Court, up to $1.1 M for companies and $220,000 for individuals.\n\nThe ACCC also has power to accept, on its on behalf, court enforceable undertakings under s87B of the Competition and Consumer Act. Such undertakings may include a wide range of remedies to the conduct.\n\nA range of other remedies can be ordered by the court. For example, companies are frequently forced to publish retractions of false advertising claims in national newspapers and at their places of business. Companies found in breach of the CCA are usually bound to implement a compliance program to ensure future compliance with the Act.\n\nThe ACCC is regarded by some Australian business people as necessary but often ineffective, echoing the critics of American anti-trust laws, while Australian consumers generally hold the ACCC in high regard. Whilst it is acknowledged that the ACCC is required to help safeguard consumer rights, there has been occasional criticism of the organisation as being \"all-talk-no-action\". This criticism is most likely due to the inherent difficulty in obtaining sufficient evidence to prove breaches of the restrictive trade practices provisions of the Competition and Consumer Act.\n\nRecently the ACCC has exercised its authority in a number of retail areas, including fining retailer Target for false advertising and Woolworths (including some Safeway branded supermarkets in Victoria) for anti-competitive liquor deals. In 2008 the ACCC published findings of its inquiry into the competitiveness of retail prices for groceries in Australia. The report found that the Australian supermarket sector is \"workably competitive\", but price competition is limited by barriers to entry and a lack of incentive for the two major players, Coles and Woolworths, to compete on price. The report also noted that Coles and Woolworths engage in deliberate strategies designed to ensure they maintain exclusive access to prime sites such as shopping centres to prevent centre managers leasing space to competing supermarkets. In September 2009 the ACCC reached agreement with Coles and Woolworths to phase out restrictive lease agreements. The ACCC has enforced the law against producers of quack devices with medical claims like Power Balance. It won a case on 24 March 2016 against Valve Corporation for failing to provide refunds for faulty products, and making representations that domestic consumer guarantees did not apply to purchases using the Steam client.\n\nThe ACCC maintains a website listing all Australian product recalls and the following organisations are commissioned to assist with the surveillance and monitoring of product safety in relevant areas.\n\n\nThe ACCC, in conjunction with state and territory offices of fair trading, is responsible for developing and enforcing mandatory consumer product safety standards except where the product falls into the jurisdiction of one of the specialist regulators mentioned above.\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "5900062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5900062", "title": "Brewers' Distributor", "text": "Brewers' Distributor\n\nBrewers' Distributor Ltd. or BDL is a Canadian company that distributes beer throughout the four western provinces and three northern territories. It is a private joint venture company owned by InBev (parent company of Labatt Breweries) and Molson-Coors (parent company of Molson Breweries following the Molson-Coors merger).\n\nThe company was established in 1995 when Pacific Brewers Distributor in British Columbia, Alberta Brewers Agents, Saskatchewan Brewers Association and Associated Beer Distributors in Manitoba (all of which were owned, or largely, owned by the two present shareholders) were consolidated into a single operation. BDL operates nine distribution centres and four cross dock facilities in Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. The head office is located in Calgary.\n\nThere are a few key differences between BDL and Brewers Retail Inc. which operates under largely the same ownership in the neighboring province of Ontario. First, BDL does not retail beer to consumers, it is only in the warehousing and distribution business. Second, although BDL distributes the vast majority of beer sold in Western Canada, it has not been granted monopolistic privileges by any provincial government. Other domestic breweries are free to distribute their own beer if they wish – some non-shareholders (such as the Big Rock and Sleeman Breweries) have their own distribution chains although others voluntarily use BDL. Third, BDL has been permitted to distribute some brands of imported beer since 2001 except in Alberta where the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission had already contracted out its entire distribution operation to a private company and continues to grant Connect Logistics Inc. the exclusive right to distribute imported beer to Alberta's privately owned establishments and stores. BRI stocks imported beer in its The Beer Store locations but this beer is purchased through the Liquor Control Board of Ontario.\n\nBDL does not distribute wine or distilled spirits in any province. These are distributed in Alberta by the AGLC through its private contractor, and in the other western provinces and territories by their respective government-owned liquor corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31713394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31713394", "title": "Bus Safety Act 2009", "text": "Bus Safety Act 2009\n\nThe Bus Safety Act 2009 (also BSA) is a law enacted by the Parliament of the State of Victoria, Australia and is the prime statute regulating the safety of bus operations in Victoria. The Act was developed as part of the Transport Legislation Review conducted by the Department of Transport between 2004 and 2010 and is aimed at preventing deaths and injuries arising from bus operations in Victoria and establishes a modern \"best practice\" regulatory framework to assist in maintaining and improving the Victorian bus industry's good safety record. \n\nThe Act continued regulatory control over the operation of large buses and introduced safety standards for the small or mini-bus sector which comprises 40% of the Victorian bus fleet. Controls over large and small buses comprise permissions such as accreditation and registration. In addition, the Act introduced broad based \"safety duties\" for bus operators and all others who have a significant role in providing both commercial and non-commercial bus services. The Act also extended the range of enforcement powers and sanctions available to the safety regulator - the Director, Transport Safety operating as Transport Safety Victoria - and operates to encourage greater safety awareness across all types of bus operations.\n\nThe Act was the State's first dedicated statute on the subject and replaced provisions in the \"Public Transport Competition Act 1995\", which was renamed \"Bus Services Act 1995\". The \"Bus Safety Act\" forms part of the transport policy and legislation framework in Victoria set by the \"Transport Integration Act 2010\", and its provisions are subject to the overarching transport system vision, transport system objectives and decision making principles set out in that Act. The \"Bus Safety Act\" was passed in late March 2009 and commenced on 31 December 2010.\n\nThe responsible Minister for the Act is the Minister for Public Transport, currently Jacinta Allan.\n\nThe stated purpose of the Bus Safety Act Act is \"...to provide for the safe operation of bus services in Victoria\". The objects of the Act center on the safety of bus operations, management of safety risks, continuous improvement in bus safety management, public confidence in the safety of bus transport, appropriate stakeholder involvement and the existence of a safety culture among bus service providers.\n\nThe Act also contains a number of overarching policy principles relating to shared responsibility for safety, accountability for managing safety risks, enforcement, transparency, consistency and stakeholder involvement.\nThe Act establishes a regulatory scheme with the following key elements -\n\nThe Bus Safety Act was developed as a response to growing bus operations and the emergence of a greater safety risks and in recognition of the deficiencies of the previous regulatory scheme.\n\nBefore the BSA, bus safety in Victoria was regulated by an operator accreditation scheme in the former Public Transport Competition Act 1995 and by miscellaneous prescriptive offences in the Transport (Passenger Vehicles) Regulations 2005. Compared with best practice regimes, the previous scheme was outmoded and inadequate.\n\nSome of the problems with the previous regime were -\n\n\nThe Act is divided into nine parts:\n\n\nThe Bus Safety Act regulates the safety compliance of most bus transport in Victoria including buses operated both commercially and non commercially. A major change made by the Act was the extension of coverage to small buses.\n\nThe former Public Transport Competition Act regime focused exclusively on large buses. The BSA extended the definition of 'bus' in line with the Australian Design Rules, which define a bus as a passenger vehicle with 10 or more seating positions including the driver. The definition refers to buses 'as built'. This means that if a vehicle is built as a bus, subsequent modifications, including reducing the number of seats, will not alter its status under the scheme.\n\nAccordingly, a bus built with 10 seats remains a bus even if some of those seats are removed. This ensures that safety regulation is not avoided by making alterations to the vehicle. Some flexibility is provided by allowing for vehicles and services to be opted in or out of the definition.\n\nFor example, a vehicle that would otherwise be a bus, but is licensed as a taxi, is excluded so that the operator is not subject to double regulation.\n\nIn order to foster more proactive risk management in the bus industry, Part 3 of the BSA imposes performance-based duties of care on all industry participants who are in a position to influence the safety of the operation - what is called the 'chain of responsibility'.\n\nSafety duties apply to all bus services, both commercial and non-commercial, and to all buses regardless of seating capacity. The primary duty holder under the Bus Safety Act is the operator of the bus service, as the person who has effective responsibility and control over the whole operation.\n\nSafety duties are also imposed on a range of other people including -\n\n\nAll of these persons can clearly affect bus safety. They are required to ensure that, in carrying out their activities, they eliminate risks to health and safety if 'practicable' - or work to reduce those risks 'so far as is reasonably practicable'.\n\nThis familiar practicability formula is borrowed from Victoria's Rail Safety Act (and the subsequent national model Rail Safety Bill) and the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2004.\n\nDuties of this kind are a key aspect of modern safety regulation and tend to create a shared safety awareness, a proactive approach to safety management and adaptability to new circumstances - in other words, a safety culture.\n\nThe framework of safety duties in the Act seeks to give practical effect to the so-called \"chain of responsibility\" concept in the bus safety sector. It seeks to identify the parties who are in a sufficient position of control over risks, in this case to safety, and to allocate responsibility by law accordingly.\n\nPenalties for a breach of safety duties are potentially high, with maximum penalties reflecting those that can be imposed on duty holders in the rail sector and in the OH and S Act. Penalties vary among natural person and body corporate offenders.\n\nThe general approach taken in the Act - to encourage a safety culture by imposing safety duties and risk management obligations on persons in a chain of responsibility - is strongly supported by the report on transport safety regulation released in October 2008 by the NSW Efficient Transportation Marketplace Working Group. The report effectively endorsed Victoria's and the nation's rail safety regime directions and suggested that a similar approach, particularly focusing on performance-based duties, be taken with all road transport.\n\nThe typical formulation of a safety duty specifies that persons covered by Part 3 of the Act must satisfy in this category is that they must \"so far as is reasonably practicable, ensure the safety of the bus service\".\n\nThe formulation of the duty can, however, vary according to the party covered. For example, a bus safety worker is required to take \"...reasonable measures to ensure the safety of persons who may be affected by the acts or omissions of the bus safety worker.\"\n\nPart 4 of the Bus Safety Act contains provision for two permissioning schemes - an accreditation scheme and a registration scheme. These schemes apply according to whether the operator runs a commercial service for profit or a local bus service or a not for profit service such as those typically offered by clubs and associations.\n\nThe BSA seeks to strike a balance between the need to ensure that non commercial bus services are operated safely without requiring onerous requirements and therefore threatening the viability of community services, such as buses provided by local councils, clubs or community organisations.\n\nThis led to the requirement in the Act for the most risky bus services - commercial services and local services - to be subject to accreditation requires while less risky not for profit services were subject to a lesser registration obligation.\n\nThe key party responsible for the direct operation of commercial bus services in Victoria, the bus operator, is not permitted to operate under the Act unless granted accreditation under the BSA by the regulator.\n\nThe purpose of accreditation is to attest that a person who operates a commercial bus service or a local bus service has demonstrated the competence and capacity to manage the risks to safety associated with their bus operations.\n\nThe matters applicants are required to demonstrate under the scheme are that they have, \"...and will continue to have, the competence and capacity to operate a commercial bus service or local bus service safely.\"\n\nMatters relevant to satisfying that test include whether the applicant has completed an approved training course and any other matters prescribed by regulations or declared by the Safety Director.\n\nIn addition to safety duties, the requirement to be accredited was continued by the BSA for operators of commercial services which use medium to large buses, as well as local councils which use medium to large buses to provide a local service that is available to the general public.\n\nThe accreditation scheme under previous legislation was streamlined and strengthened by the Bus Safety Act to focus more clearly on safety. It no longer focuses on business competence, and reduced the regulatory burden by relieving accredited operators of the need to obtain periodic renewal of their accreditation.\n\nNew probity standards were also introduced by the BSA, with the inclusion of disqualification offences - essentially past criminal convictions which, depending on their seriousness, may disqualify an applicant from obtaining accreditation thereby excluding the person from operating a bus.\n\nAdditional effort required in demonstrating safety competence to the regulator, and the additional regulator vigilance involved in accreditation, are reasonably required for commercial and local services that include medium to large buses - those services that are the most visible are spending the most time on the road, carrying the largest number of passengers and usually serving the general public.\n\nThese services intrinsically have a higher safety risk. Therefore, it was important that the new accreditation scheme promotes and maintains public confidence in these services.\n\nSignificantly, the BSA makes it clear that the concept of 'commercial' includes so-called 'courtesy services' - that is, where the passenger is carried free because they have paid for a service to which the transport is ancillary - with hotel shuttles the most familiar example.\n\nThe Bus Safety Act does not require accreditation for operators of non-commercial bus services, or services that rely exclusively on minibuses - buses with 10-12 seats. These services are, however, subject to the same range of safety duties as applies to other bus services.\n\nThey are also required by the Act to be registered with the safety regulator, enabling the regulator to take proactive compliance steps or responsive action as necessary. In addition, the specific guidance contained in codes of practice can enhance compliance by operators of these services.\n\nThe BSA enables the safety director to apply to the bus sector the wide array of enforcement powers and sanctions, consistent with modern safety schemes.\n\nThese provisions give the safety director regulatory tools including improvement notices (which require a duty holder to remedy a safety breach) and, in more critical circumstances, prohibition notices (which enable the safety director to prohibit the duty holder from carrying out an unsafe activity until the situation is remedied).\n\nIn each case, failure to comply with the notice is an offence. The Rail Safety Act and Road Safety Act 1986 give courts a wide range of sentencing options after a finding of guilt is made in relation to a safety offence. These, too, were made available by the BSA in relation to bus safety offences.\n\nThe compliance-related provisions to support the Bus Safety Act were not included in that Act. Instead, they were included in the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983 as part of the holistic restructuring of Victorian transport legislation driven by the Transport Legislation Review.\n\nThe compliance support scheme centres on provisions which enable the appointment of authorised officers, the conferral of coercive powers and the availability of a range of administrative and court-based sanctions.\n\nThe key elements are -\n\nThe Director, Transport Safety, who operates as Transport Safety Victoria, is the responsible regulator for the application and enforcement of the Act, and the regulation of safety performance of the bus sector in Victoria. The office was created by the Transport Integration Act 2010. It commenced on 1 July 2010 and subsumed the former office of the Director, Public Transport Safety within a broader transport safety office. The Director is part of the Department of Transport, but is functionally independent of the Department and responsible Ministers, except in limited circumstances. The Director reports to the relevant Ministers.\n\nThe development of the proposal for the Bus Safety Act was managed by the Department of Transport in Victoria as part of its broader Transport Legislation Review project.\n\nThe Department released a discussion paper - \"Improving Bus Safety in Victoria\" - outlining the broad policy framework for a bus safety regulation scheme legislation in May 2008.\n\nThe paper outlined a series of concerns about the former bus safety regulation framework in Victoria including concerns about safety trends and outcomes and comparisons with schemes in overseas jurisdictions.\n\nComments on the discussion paper were requested from industry parties and other interested stakeholders. 37 comments were received on the paper. Comments received from industry, government and other stakeholders resulted in the refinement of the proposal and changes to its design.\n\nUltimately, the proposals for a new bus safety regulation scheme was presented to the Victorian Parliament as proposed legislation in early December 2008.\n\nThe Bus Safety Act was introduced into the lower house of the Victorian Parliament, the Legislative Assembly, as the Bus Safety Bill, on 2 December 2008. The responsible Minister for the Bill proposal was the then Minister for Public Transport, the Hon Lynne Kosky MP.\n\nThe Minister moved the second reading of the Bus Safety Bill on 4 December 2008 and set the context for the Bill in her speech in support as follows -\n\nThe Bus Safety Bill was supported by opposition members and was the subject of minimal negative comment during its passage. The then Opposition shadow Transport Minister and the Minister for Public Transport, Terry Mulder MP, commented that -\n\nThe then Parliamentary Secretary for Public Transport, Rob Hudson MP, observed that -\n\nIn reply, the Minister indicated that -\n\nThe Minister also took the opportunity in summing up debate to thank a number of Departmental officials for their policy and stakeholder work on the Bill including Ian Shepherd and Hilary de Vries.\n\nThe Bus Safety Bill was passed by the Legislative Assembly on 12 March 2009. The Bill was introduced into the Legislative Council on the same day and second reading was moved immediately. Debate took place in the upper house in late March 2009.\n\nThe lead speaker in the upper house debate, David Koch MLC, observed that -\n\nLead speaker for the Greens, Colleen Hartland MLC, commented that -\n\nThe Bus Safety Bill was passed by the Legislative Council on 31 March 2009.\n\nThe Bus Safety Bill received the Royal Assent on 7 April 2009 to become the Bus Safety Act 2009. The Act was ultimately permitted to commence on its default commencement date of 31 December 2010.\n\nThe Bus Safety Regulations 2010 which were required to support the operation of the Act also operated from the same date thereby formally commencing Victoria's new bus safety regulation scheme.\n\nThe Act has been subject to some significant changes since it was passed in 2009. In particular, the Bus Safety Act, like other Victorian transport statutes, was brought under the portfolio scheme in the Transport Integration Act and the high level policy and institutional framework set out in that statute.\n\nRecent activity by the independent transport safety regulator, Transport Safety Victoria, using the provisions of the Bus Safety Act and the Bus Safety Regulations 2010 has raised serious concerns about the safety of the Victorian bus fleet. Changes made by the legislation has required mandatory reporting of the results of annual bus safety inspections since February 2011. The current figures show that over a quarter of the State's buses are unsafe. Over the five-month period to July 2011, 28% of 13 plus seat buses failed their annual bus safety inspection. The head of Transport Safety Victoria, Alan Osborne, described the results as \"unsettling\" and called for everyone involved to shoulder their fair share of responsibility.\n\nIn September 2017, safety inspections by Transport Safety Victoria at two Transdev Melbourne bus depots found 33 defective buses. Twelve of the buses were in such poor conditions they were removed from service for urgent repairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339302", "title": "Campaign finance", "text": "Campaign finance\n\nCampaign finance refers to all funds raised to promote candidates, political parties, or policy initiatives and referenda. Political parties, charitable organizations, and political action committees (in the United States) are vehicles used in aggregating funds to keep campaigns alive. \"Political finance\" is also popular terminology, and is used internationally for its comprehensiveness. Campaign finance deals with \"the costs of democracy\", a term coined by G. Alexander Heard for his famous analysis of campaign finance in the U.S.\n\nPolitical campaigns have many expenditures, such as the cost of travel of candidates and staff, political consulting, and the direct costs of communicating with voters via media outlets. Campaign spending depends on the region. For instance, in the United States, television advertising time must be purchased by campaigns, whereas in other countries, it is provided for free.\nThe need to raise money to maintain expensive political campaigns diminishes ties to a representative democracy because of the influence large contributors have over politicians.\n\nAlthough the political science literature indicates that most contributors give to support parties or candidates with whom they are already in agreement, there is wide public perception that donors expect government favors in return. (such as specific legislation being enacted or defeated), so some have come to equate campaign finance with political corruption and bribery. These views have led governments to reform campaign financing in the hope of eliminating big money influence.\n\nThe causes and effects of campaign finance rules are studied in political science, economics, and public policy, among other disciplines.\n\nSome countries rely heavily on private donors to finance political campaigns. In these countries, fundraising is often a significant activity for the campaign staff and the candidate, especially in larger and more prominent campaigns. For example, one survey in the United States found that 23% of candidates for statewide office surveyed say that they spent more than half of their scheduled time raising money. Over half of all candidates surveyed spent at least 1/4 of their time on fundraising. One study finds that political donations gives donors significantly greater access to policymakers. The tactics used can include direct mail solicitation, attempts to encourage supporters to contribute via the Internet, direct solicitation from the candidate, and events specifically for the purpose of fundraising, or other activities.\n\nMost countries that rely on private donations to fund campaigns require extensive disclosure of contributions, frequently including information such as the name, employer and address of donors. This is intended to allow for policing of undue donor influence by other campaigns or by good government groups, while preserving most benefits of private financing, including the right to make donations and to spend money for political speech, saving government the expense of funding campaigns, and keeping government from funding partisan speech that some citizens may find odious. Supporters of private financing systems believe that, in addition to avoiding government limitations on speech, private financing fosters civic involvement, ensures that a diversity of views are heard, and prevents government from tilting the scales to favor those in power or with political influence.\n\nThese kinds of donations can come from private individuals, as well as groups such as trade unions and for-profit corporations.\n\nHowever, critics of this system claim that it leads to votes being \"bought\" and producing large gaps between different parties in the money they have to campaign against.\n\nOther countries choose to use government funding to run campaigns. Funding campaigns from the government budget is widespread in South America and Europe. The mechanisms for this can be quite varied, ranging from direct subsidy of political parties to government matching funds for certain types of private donations (often small donations) to exemption from fees of government services (e.g., postage) and many other systems as well. Supporters of government financing generally believe that the system decreases corruption; in addition, many proponents believe that government financing promotes other values, such as civic participation or greater faith in the political process. Not all government subsidies take the form of money; some systems require campaign materials (often air time on television) to be provided at very low rates to the candidates. Critics sometimes complain of the expense of the government financing systems. Conservative and libertarian critics of the system argue that government should not subsidize political speech. Other critics argue that government financing, with its emphasis on equalizing money resources, merely exaggerates differences in non-monetary resources.\n\nIn many countries, such as Germany and the United States, campaigns can be funded by a combination of private and public money.\n\nIn some electoral systems, candidates who win an election or secure a minimum number of ballots are allowed to apply for a rebate to the government. The candidate submits an audited report of the campaign expenses and the government issues a rebate to the candidate, subject to some caps such as the number of votes cast for the candidate or a blanket cap. For example, in the 2008 election, candidates for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong were entitled to a rebate up to HK$11 per vote.\n\nThe concept of political finance can affect various parts of a society's institutions which support governmental and social success. Correct handling of political finance impacts a country's ability to effectively maintain free and fair elections, effective governance, democratic government and regulation of corruption. The United Nations convention against Corruption, recognizing this, encouraged its members to \"enhance transparency in the funding of candidatures for elected public office and, when applicable, the funding of political parties.\" When conducting a study pursuing and understanding of what international civil society has determined integral to regulation of political finance, Magnus Öhman and Hani Zainulbhai identified several common understandings by certain governments:\n\nTheir study also affirmed the perspective laid down by the Council of Europe, when discussing the concept of effective regulation of campaign financing: \"[We are] convinced that raising public awareness on the issues of prevention and fight against corruption in the field of funding of political parties is essential to the good functioning of democratic institutions.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52013601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52013601", "title": "Capitularies of Charles the Bald", "text": "Capitularies of Charles the Bald\n\nThe Capitularies of Charles the Bald represent a series of acts implemented by King Charles to decide and promulgate laws governing public affairs. Capitularies were used extensively by the Merovingian and Carolingian rulers (see the Capitularies of Charlemagne) to provide guidance to counts and their subordinate officers in the far-flung reaches of the empire.\n\nHincmar, as chief advisor to Charles, was particularly adept at coordinating and disseminating the capitularies, soliciting maximum input from all sources. While numerous capitularies were issued by Charles, two important ones stand out:\n\nA complete list of capitularies was provided by Jacques Sirmond in his 1623 history.\n\n"}
{"id": "215403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215403", "title": "Case law", "text": "Case law\n\nCase law is a set of past rulings by tribunals that meet their respective jurisdictions' rules to be cited as precedent. These interpretations are distinguished from statutory law, which are the statutes and codes enacted by legislative bodies, and regulatory law, which are regulations established by executive agencies based on statutes. The term \"case law\" is applied to any set of previous rulings by an adjudicatory tribunal that guides future rulings; for example, patent office case law.\n\nIn common law countries the term is used for judicial decisions of selected appellate courts, courts of first instance, agency tribunals, and other bodies discharging adjudicatory functions. In common law countries, \"case law\" is a near-exact synonym for \"common law\".\n\nIn the common law tradition, courts decide the law applicable to a case by interpreting statutes and applying precedents which record how and why prior cases have been decided. Unlike most civil law systems, common law systems follow the doctrine of stare decisis, by which most courts are bound by their own previous decisions in similar cases, and all lower courts should make decisions consistent with previous decisions of higher courts. For example, in England, the High Court and the Court of Appeal are each bound by their own previous decisions, but the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom is able to deviate from its earlier decisions, although in practice it rarely does so.\n\nGenerally speaking, higher courts do not have direct oversight over the lower courts of record, in that they cannot reach out on their own initiative (\"sua sponte\") at any time to overrule judgments of the lower courts. Normally, the burden rests with litigants to appeal rulings (including those in clear violation of established case law) to the higher courts. If a judge acts against precedent and the case is not appealed, the decision will stand.\n\nA lower court may not rule against a binding precedent, even if it feels that it is unjust; it may only express the hope that a higher court or the legislature will reform the rule in question. If the court believes that developments or trends in legal reasoning render the precedent unhelpful, and wishes to evade it and help the law evolve, it may either hold that the precedent is inconsistent with subsequent authority, or that it should be \"distinguished\" by some material difference between the facts of the cases. If that judgment goes to appeal, the appellate court will have the opportunity to review both the precedent and the case under appeal, perhaps overruling the previous case law by setting a new precedent of higher authority. This may happen several times as the case works its way through successive appeals. Lord Denning, first of the High Court of Justice, later of the Court of Appeal, provided a famous example of this evolutionary process in his development of the concept of estoppel starting in the \"High Trees\" case: \"Central London Property Trust Ltd v. High Trees House Ltd\" [1947] K.B. 130.\n\nThe different roles of case law in civil and common law traditions create differences in the way that courts render decisions. Common law courts generally explain in detail the legal rationale behind their decisions, with citations of both legislation and previous relevant judgments, and often an exegesis of the wider legal principles. The necessary analysis (called \"ratio decidendi\"), then constitutes a precedent binding on other courts; further analyses not strictly necessary to the determination of the current case are called \"obiter dicta\", which constitute persuasive authority but are not technically binding. By contrast, decisions in civil law jurisdictions are generally very short, referring only to statutes. The reason for this difference is that these civil law jurisdictions adhere to a tradition that the reader should be able to deduce the logic from the decision and the statutes, so that, in some cases, it is somewhat difficult to apply previous decisions to the facts presented in future cases. \n\nSome pluralist systems, such as Scots law in Scotland and so-called civil law jurisdictions in Quebec and Louisiana, do not precisely fit into the dual \"common-civil\" law system classifications. Such systems may have been heavily influenced by the Anglo-American common law tradition; however, their substantive law is firmly rooted in the civil law tradition. Because of their position between the two main systems of law, these types of legal systems are sometimes referred to as \"mixed\" systems of law.\n\nLaw professors in common law traditions play a much smaller role in developing case law than professors in civil law traditions. Because court decisions in civil law traditions are brief and not amenable to establishing precedent, much of the exposition of the law in civil law traditions is done by academics rather than by judges; this is called doctrine and may be published in treatises or in journals such as \"Recueil Dalloz\" in France. Historically, common law courts relied little on legal scholarship; thus, at the turn of the twentieth century, it was very rare to see an academic writer quoted in a legal decision (except perhaps for the academic writings of prominent judges such as Coke and Blackstone). Today academic writers are often cited in legal argument and decisions as persuasive authority; often, they are cited when judges are attempting to implement reasoning that other courts have not yet adopted, or when the judge believes the academic's restatement of the law is more compelling than can be found in precedent. Thus common law systems are adopting one of the approaches long common in civil law jurisdictions.\n\nJudges may refer to various types of persuasive authority to reach a decision in a case. Widely cited non-binding sources include legal encyclopedias such as \"Corpus Juris Secundum\" and \"Halsbury's Laws of England\", or the published work of the Law Commission or the American Law Institute. Some bodies are given statutory powers to issue Guidance with persuasive authority or similar statutory effect, such as the Highway Code.\n\nIn federal or multi-jurisdictional law systems there may exist conflicts between the various lower appellate courts. Sometimes these differences may not be resolved and it may be necessary to distinguish how the law is applied in one district, province, division or appellate department. Usually only an appeal accepted by the court of last resort will resolve such differences and, for many reasons, such appeals are often not granted.\n\nAny court may seek to distinguish its present case from that of a binding precedent, in order to reach a different conclusion. The validity of such a distinction may or may not be accepted on appeal. An appellate court may also propound an entirely new and different analysis from that of junior courts, and may or may not be bound by its own previous decisions, or in any case may distinguish them on the facts.\n\nWhere there are several members of a court, there may be one or more judgments given; only the ratio decidendi of the majority can constitute a binding precedent, but all may be cited as persuasive, or their reasoning may be adopted in argument. Quite apart from the rules of precedent, the weight actually given to any reported judgment may depend on the reputation of both the reporter and the judges.\n\nThe legal systems of the Nordic countries are sometimes included among the civil law systems, but as a separate branch, and sometimes counted as separate from the civil law tradition. In Sweden, for instance, case law arguably plays a more important role than in some of the Continental civil law systems. The two highest courts, the Supreme Court (\"Högsta domstolen\") and the Supreme Administrative Court (\"Regeringsrätten\"), have the right to set precedent which is in practice (however not formally) binding on all future application of the law. Courts of appeal, both general courts (\"hovrätter\") and administrative courts (\"kammarrätter\") may also issue decisions that act as guides for the application of the law, but these decisions may be overturned by higher courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5388029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5388029", "title": "Cert-money", "text": "Cert-money\n\nCert-money, or head-money, was a common fine, paid annually by the residents of several manors to the lords thereof; and sometimes to the hundred; \"pro certo letae\", for the certain keeping of the leet. This in ancient records, was called \"certum letae\".\n"}
{"id": "1882861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882861", "title": "Citizenship of the European Union", "text": "Citizenship of the European Union\n\nCitizenship of the European Union (EU) is afforded to qualifying citizens of European Union member states. It was given to the citizens of member states by the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, at the same time as the European Community was gaining its own legal identity. The treaty established a direct legal relationship between that new legal identity and its citizens by establishing a directly elected European Parliament and the ability for citizens to bring cases directly to the ECJ, and has been in force since 1993. European Union citizenship is additional to national citizenship. EU citizenship affords rights, freedoms and legal protections to all of its citizens.\n\nEuropean Union citizens have the right to free movement, settlement and employment across the EU. EU citizens are also free to trade and transport goods, services and capital through EU borders, as in a national market, with no restrictions on capital movements or fees. Citizens also have the right to vote in and run as a candidate in local elections in the country where they live, European elections and European Citizens' Initiative.\n\nCitizenship of the EU also confers the right to consular protection by embassies of other EU member states when a person's country of citizenship is not represented by an embassy or consulate in the country in which they require protection. EU citizens also have the right to address the European Parliament, European Ombudsman, and EU agencies directly in their own language, provided the issue raised is within that institution's competence.\n\nEU citizens also enjoy the legal protections of EU law, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and acts and directives regarding, for example, protection of personal data, rights of victims of crime, preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, equal pay, protection from discrimination in employment on grounds of religion or belief, sexual orientation and age. The EU also has an office of European Ombudsman whom EU citizens can approach directly.\n\nEU citizenship was first introduced by the Maastricht Treaty, and was extended by the Treaty of Amsterdam. Prior to the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, the European Communities treaties provided guarantees for the free movement of economically active persons, but not, generally, for others. The 1951 Treaty of Paris establishing the European Coal and Steel Community established a right to free movement for workers in these industries and the 1957 Treaty of Rome provided for the free movement of workers and services.\n\nHowever, the treaty provisions were interpreted by the European Court of Justice not as having a narrow economic purpose, but rather a wider social and economic purpose. In \"Levin\", the Court found that the \"freedom to take up employment was important, not just as a means towards the creation of a single market for the benefit of the member state economies, but as a right for the worker to raise her or his standard of living\". Under the ECJ caselaw, the rights of free movement of workers applies regardless of the worker's purpose in taking up employment abroad, to both part-time and full-time work, and whether or not the worker required additional financial assistance from the member state into which he moves. Since the ECJ has held that a recipient of service has free movement rights under the treaty and this criterion is easily fulfilled, effectively every national of an EU country within another member state, whether economically active or not, had a right under Article 12 of the European Community Treaty to non-discrimination even prior to the Maastricht Treaty.\n\nIn the case of \"Martinez Sala\", the European Court of Justice held that the citizenship provisions provided substantive equal treatment rights alongside those already granted by union law. The case of Baumbast later established that the right to equal treatment applies equally to both economically active and inactive citizens. Despite these broad interpretations, the landmark case of Dano combined the criteria of freedom to move and equal treatment, citing them as inter-dependant, subsequently limiting the scope of Martinez Sala.\n\nHistorically, the main benefit of being a citizen of an EU country has been that of free movement. The free movement also applies to the citizens of European Economic Area countries and Switzerland. However, with the creation of EU citizenship, certain political rights came into being. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for citizens to be \"directly represented at Union level in the European Parliament\" and \"to participate in the democratic life of the Union\" (Treaty on the European Union, Title II, Article 10). Specifically, the following rights are afforded:\n\n\n\n\nArticle 21 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that Every citizen of the Union shall have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, subject to the limitations and conditions laid down in this Treaty and by the measures adopted to give it effect.\n\nThe European Court of Justice has remarked that, EU Citizenship is destined to be the fundamental status of nationals of the Member States\n\nThe ECJ has held that this Article confers a directly effective right upon citizens to reside in another Member State. Before the case of \"Baumbast\", it was widely assumed that non-economically active citizens had no rights to residence deriving directly from the EU Treaty, only from directives created under the Treaty. In \"Baumbast\", however, the ECJ held that (the then) Article 18 of the EC Treaty granted a generally applicable right to residency, which is limited by secondary legislation, but \"only\" where that secondary legislation is proportionate. Member States can distinguish between nationals and Union citizens but only if the provisions satisfy the test of proportionality. Migrant EU citizens have a \"legitimate expectation of a limited degree of financial solidarity... having regard to their degree of integration into the host society\" Length of time is a particularly important factor when considering the degree of integration.\n\nThe ECJ's case law on citizenship has been criticised for subjecting an increasing number of national rules to the proportionality assessment.\n\nArticle 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that 1. Freedom of movement for workers shall be secured within the Union.2. Such freedom of movement shall entail the abolition of any discrimination based on nationality between workers of the Member States as regards employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment.\n\nState employment reserved exclusively for nationals varies between member states. For example, training as a barrister in Britain and Ireland is not reserved for nationals, while the corresponding French course qualifies one as a 'juge' and hence can only be taken by French citizens. However, it is broadly limited to those roles that exercise a significant degree of public authority, such as judges, police, the military, diplomats, senior civil servants or politicians. Note that not all Member States choose to restrict all of these posts to nationals.\n\nMuch of the existing secondary legislation and case law was consolidated in the Citizens' Rights Directive 2004/38/EC on the right to move and reside freely within the EU.\n\nNew member states may undergo transitional regimes for Freedom of movement for workers, during which their nationals only enjoy restricted access to labour markets in other member states. EU member states are permitted to keep restrictions on citizens of the newly acceded countries for a maximum of seven years after accession. For the EFTA states (Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway and Switzerland), the maximum is nine years.\n\nFollowing the 2004 enlargement, three \"old\" member states—Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom—decided to allow unrestricted access to their labour markets. By December 2009, all but two member states—Austria and Germany—had completely dropped controls. These restrictions too expired on 1 May 2011.\n\nFollowing the 2007 enlargement, all pre-2004 member states except Finland and Sweden imposed restrictions on Bulgarian and Romanian citizens, as did two member states that joined in 2004: Malta and Hungary. As of November 2012, all but 8 EU countries have dropped restrictions entirely. These restrictions too expired on 1 January 2014. Norway opened its labour market in June 2012, while Switzerland kept restrictions in place until 2016.\n\nFollowing the 2013 enlargement, some countries implemented restrictions on Croatian nationals following the country's EU accession on 1 July 2013. As of July 2013, all but 13 EU countries have dropped restrictions entirely. The UK Home Office has announced a bill to this effect.\n\nThere is no common EU policy on the acquisition of European citizenship as it is supplementary to national citizenship. (EC citizenship was initially granted to all citizens of European Community member states in 1994 by the Maastricht treaty concluded between the member states of the European community under international law, this changed into citizenship of the European Union in 2007 when the European Community changed its legal identity to be the European Union. Many more people became EU citizens when each new EU member state was added and, at each point, all the existing member states ratified the adjustments to the treaties to allow the creation of those extra citizenship rights for the individual. European citizenship is also generally granted at the same time as national citizenship is granted; likewise it is removed at the point of removal of national citizenship). (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that: \"Citizenship of the Union is hereby established. Every person holding the nationality of a Member State shall be a citizen of the Union. Citizenship of the Union shall be additional to and not replace national citizenship.\"\n\nWhile nationals of Member States are citizens of the union, \"It is for each Member State, having due regard to Union law, to lay down the conditions for the acquisition and loss of nationality.\" As a result, there is a great variety in rules and practices with regard to the acquisition and loss of citizenship in EU member states.\n\nIn practice this means that a member state may withhold EU citizenship from certain groups of citizens, most commonly in overseas territories of member states outside the EU.\n\nFor example, owing to the complexity of British nationality law, a 1982 declaration by Her Majesty's Government defined who would be deemed to be a British \"national\" for European Union purposes:\n\nThis declaration therefore excludes from EU citizenship various historic categories of British citizenship generally associated with former British colonies, such as British Overseas Citizens, British Nationals (Overseas), British Protected Persons and any British subject who does not have the 'right of abode' under British immigration law.\n\nIn 2002, with the passing of the British Overseas Territories Act 2002, EU citizenship was extended to almost all British overseas territories citizens when they were automatically granted full British citizenship (with the exception of those with an association to the British sovereign base areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia on the Island of Cyprus). This has effectively granted them full EU citizenship rights, including free movement rights, although only residents of Gibraltar have the right to vote in European Parliament elections. In contrast, British citizens in the Crown Dependencies of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man have always been considered to be EU citizens but, unlike residents of the British overseas territories, are prohibited from exercising EU free movement rights under the terms of the UK Accession Treaty if they have no other connection with the UK (e.g. they have lived in the UK for five years, were born in the UK, or have parents or grandparents born in the UK) and have no EU voting rights. (see Guernsey passport, Isle of Man passport, Jersey passport).\n\nAnother example are the residents of Faroe Islands of Denmark who, though in possession of full Danish citizenship, are outside the EU and are explicitly excluded from EU citizenship under the terms of the Danish Accession Treaty. This is in contrast to residents of the Danish territory of Greenland who, whilst also outside the EU as a result of the 1984 Greenland Treaty, do receive EU citizenship as this was not specifically excluded by the terms of that treaty (see Faroe Islands and the European Union; Greenland and the European Union).\n\nThis is a summary of nationality laws for each of the twenty-eight EU member states.\n\nThe general rule for losing EU citizenship is that European citizenship is lost if member state nationality is lost, but the automatic loss of EU citizenship as a result of a member state withdrawing from the EU is the subject of debate.\n\nOne school of legal thought indicates that the Maastricht treaty created the European Union as a legal entity, it then also created the status of EU citizen which gave an individual relationship between the EU and its citizens, and a status of EU citizen. Clemens Rieder suggests a case can be made that \"[n]one of the Member States were forced to confer the status of EU citizenship on their citizens but once they have, according to this argument, they cannot simply withdraw this status.\". In this situation, no EU citizen would involuntarily lose their citizenship due to their nation's withdrawal from the EU.\n\nAnother school of legal thought indicates that the Maastricht treaty created the European Union as a legal entity, but it does not have a direct legal relationship with its citizens and EU citizenship is not comparable with any other citizenships and is not additional to the member state citizenship. EU citizenship is only a special feature that member states can offer their citizens. The relationship between an EU citizen and the EU as an organization, is therefore only legally through the member state. In this situation, when the member country leaves, the ex-member country can no longer offer that special feature to its citizens, thus (for example with respect to Brexit) British citizens would no longer be EU citizens.\n\nIt is likely that only a court case before the European Court of Justice would be able to properly determine the correct legal position in this regard, as there is no definitive legal certainty in this area. As of 7 February 2018, the District Court of Amsterdam decided to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, but the state of the Netherlands has appealed against this referral decision.\n\nAll citizens of Greenland are eligible for EU citizenship under its OCT status, even following Greenland's withdrawal from the EU in 1985, because they remain eligible for Danish passports (which confer EU citizenship) or Greenlandic (which do not). Greenland, however, was not a member state of the EU and is not a sovereign nation state unlike, for example, the United Kingdom.\n\nAs a result of the Withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the opinion of both the European and British governments has been that British citizens would lose their European citizenship and European citizens would lose their automatic right to stay in the UK. To account for the problems arising from this, a provisional agreement outlines the right of UK citizens to remain in the EU (and vice versa) where they are resident in the Union on the day of the UK's withdrawal. The only exception to this is citizens who possess dual citizenship with an EU state. This eligibility includes the majority of British citizens from Northern Ireland, who are automatically entitled to Irish citizenship as part of the Good Friday Agreement.\n\nAs a result of the Brexit referendum, there were 3 European Citizens' Initiatives that were registered which sought to protect the rights and/or status of British EU citizens. Out of these three initiatives, the one with the strongest legal argument was registered on March 27, 2017 and officially named \"EU Citizenship for Europeans: United in Diversity in Spite of jus soli and jus sanguinis\". It is clear that the initiative abides by the first school of thought mentioned above because the annex that was submitted with the initiative clearly makes reference to Rieder's work. In an article titled \"[http://vip.politicsmeanspolitics.com/2017/09/06/extending-full-eu-citizenship-to-uk-nationals-especially-after-brexit/ <nowiki>Extending [full] EU citizenship to UK nationals ESPECIALLY after Brexit</nowiki>]\" and published with the online magazine \"Politics Means Politics\", the creator of the Initiative argues that UK nationals \"must\" keep their EU citizenship by detaching citizenship of the European Union from Member State nationality. Perhaps the most convincing and authoritative source that is cited in the article is the acting President of the European Court of Justice, Koen Lenaerts who published an article where he explains how the Court analyzes and decides cases dealing with citizenship of the European Union. Both Lenaerts and the creator of the Initiative refer to rulings by the European Court of Justice which state that:\nBased on the argument presented by \"EU Citizenship for Europeans\" and its creator, Brexit is a textbook definition of a Member State depriving a European citizen of his or her rights as EU citizens, and therefore a legal act is necessary in order to protect not just rights but the status of EU citizen itself. Despite variances in interpretation of some points of law raised by the Initiative, the European Commission's decision to register the initiative confirms the strength and merit of the initiative's legal argument.\n\nA proposal made first by Guy Verhofstadt, the European Parliament's Brexit negotiator, to help cover the rights of UK citizens post-Brexit would see UK citizens able to opt-out of the loss of EU citizenship as a result of the general clauses of the withdrawal agreement. This would allow visa free working on the basis of their continuing rights as EU citizens. This, he termed, \"associate citizenship\". This has been discussed with the UK's negotiator David Davis. However, it was made clear by the UK government that there would be no role for EU institutions concerning its citizens, effectively removing the proposal as a possibility.\n\nDenmark obtained four opt-outs from the Maastricht Treaty following the treaty's initial rejection in a 1992 referendum. The opt-outs are outlined in the Edinburgh Agreement and concern the EMU (as above), the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP), Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) and the citizenship of the European Union. The citizenship opt-out stated that European citizenship did not replace national citizenship; this opt-out was rendered meaningless when the Amsterdam Treaty adopted the same wording for all members. The policy of recent Danish governments has been to hold referendums to abolish these opt-outs, including formally abolishing the citizenship opt-out which is still technically active even if redundant.\n\nAround 500,000 British people applied for Irish citizenship during the first half of 2017 with the possible intention of keeping European Union Citizenship after Brexit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41682758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41682758", "title": "Commercial Space Launch Act of 1984", "text": "Commercial Space Launch Act of 1984\n\nCommercial Space Launch Act of 1984 is a United States federal law authored to facilitate the private enterprise of the commercialization of space and space technology. The Act of Congress set forth the quest to acquire innovative equipment and services offered by entrepreneurial ventures from the information technology services, remote sensing technology, and telecommunications industries. The Act recognized the United States private sector as having the capability to develop commercial launch vehicles, orbital satellites, and operate private launch sites and services. The Act also assigned the duties of overseeing and coordinating commercial launches, issuing of licenses and permits, and promotion of safety standards to the Secretary of Department of Transportation.\n\nThe H.R. 3942 legislation was enacted by the 98th Congressional session and signed by the 40th President of the United States Ronald Reagan on October 30, 1984.\n\nIn the 1970s, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began to look for ways to outsource the use of its launching facilities and services to private companies such as COMSAT, RCA, and Western Union. This search was due to the fact that maintaining, modifying, launching, and other duties required to launch expendable launch vehicles cost upwards of billions of dollars. Once the space shuttle became operational, NASA and the United States Air Force began using it almost exclusively. In order to accommodate the heavy weight of the space shuttle launch system, the USAF spent billions of dollars modifying one launch pad in Vandenberg Air Force Base. However, it was never used. Upon realizing the economic benefits of utilizing private space companies, the House Science and Technologies Commission proposed H.R. 3942 which eventually became Public Law 98-575, or the Commercial Space Act of 1984.\n\nTitle 51 United States Code Subtitle V and Chapter 509 was compiled as twenty-three code of law sections to vitalize commercial opportunities and space launch services for the Space programme of the United States.\n\nChronological amendments to the Commercial Space Launch Act of 1984.\n"}
{"id": "424141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424141", "title": "Compassionate conservatism", "text": "Compassionate conservatism\n\nCompassionate conservatism is an American political philosophy that stresses using traditionally conservative techniques and concepts in order to improve the general welfare of society. The term itself is often credited to the American historian and politician Doug Wead, who used it as the title of a speech in 1979, although its origins lie in paternalism. This label and philosophy has been espoused by Republican and Democratic politicians since then though in recent times it has been strongly associated with former U.S. President George W. Bush, who commonly used the term to describe his personal views. The term has also been used in the United Kingdom by former Prime Minister David Cameron, and in New Zealand by former Prime Minister John Key.\n\nHistorian and presidential advisor Doug Wead may have been the first person to use the phrase \"compassionate conservative\". In 1977, Wead wrote a book about Kolkata, India, entitled \"The Compassionate Touch\". In 1979, he gave a popular speech entitled \"The Compassionate Conservative\" at the annual Washington Charity Dinner. Tapes of the speech were sold across the country at corporate seminars.\n\nWead contended that the policies of Republican conservatives should be motivated by compassion, not protecting the status quo. And Wead declared himself to be \"a bleeding heart conservative,\" meaning that he cared for people and sincerely believed that a free marketplace was better for the poor.\n\nIn 1981, in a perhaps-unrelated usage, Vernon Jordan of the National Urban League said, of the Reagan administration,\n\nIn 1982, Wead co-authored with Ronald Reagan's Secretary of the Interior, James G. Watt, the book \"The Courage of a Conservative\" and developed his ideas further in chapter five of the book, which was entitled \"The Compassionate Conservative.\"\n\nIn 1984, U.S. Representative James R. Jones (D-OK) told \"The New York Times\":\n\nEarlier the same year Republican Ray Shamie proclaimed that \"I believe in a visionary and compassionate conservatism\"\n\nIn June 1986, Wead wrote an article for the \"Christian Herald\", describing then-vice-president George H. W. Bush, to whom he served as an aide, as a \"compassionate conservative.\"\n\nAccording to journalist Jacob Weisberg, George W. Bush, George H. W. Bush's son, first picked up the term \"compassionate conservative\" from Wead, in 1987.\n\nIn 1992, when Doug Wead ran for U.S. Representative from Arizona, he wrote a campaign book entitled \"Time for a Change\". The first chapter was called \"The Compassionate Conservative\" and outlined Wead's philosophy that the masses didn't care if Republican policies worked if the attitude and purpose behind the policies were uncaring.\n\nSome insist the doctrine was invented by Dr. Marvin Olasky, who went on to memorialize it in his books \"Renewing American Compassion\" (1996) and \"Compassionate Conservatism: What it is, What it Does, and How it Can Transform America\" (2000), and Myron Magnet of the Manhattan Institute. Olasky has been called the \"godfather of compassionate conservatism\".\n\nThe phrase was popularized when George W. Bush adopted it as one of his key slogans during his 2000 presidential campaign against Al Gore. Bush also wrote the foreword to Olasky's \"Compassionate Conservatism\". Olasky said others had come up with the term first.\n\nCompassionate conservatism has been defined as the belief that conservatism and compassion complement each other. A compassionate conservative might see the social problems of the United States, such as health care or immigration, as issues that are better solved through cooperation with private companies, charities, and religious institutions rather than directly through government departments. As former Bush chief speechwriter Michael Gerson put it, \"Compassionate conservatism is the theory that the government should encourage the effective provision of social services without providing the service itself.\"\n\nMagnet and Olasky said 19th century compassionate conservatism was based in part on the Christian doctrine of original sin, which held that “Man is sinful and likely to want something for nothing. … Man’s sinful nature leads to indolence.” (Olasky, \"Renewing American Compassion\", 64, 41).\n\nIn the words of Magnet,\n\nCompassionate conservative philosophy argues for policies in support of traditional families, welfare reform to promote individual responsibility (cf. workfare), active policing, standards-based schools (cf. No Child Left Behind Act), and assistance (economic or otherwise) to poor countries around the world.\n\nU.S. president George W. Bush said:\n\nBush began his presidency hoping to make compassionate conservatism his centerpiece. After the September 11, 2001 attacks, he focused less on this theme, but, according to professor and author Ira Chernus, its fundamental ideas became central in his rhetoric about the War on Terrorism.\n\nNicholas Lemann, writing in \"New Yorker\" magazine in 2015, wrote that George W. Bush's \"description of himself, in the 2000 campaign, as a 'compassionate conservative' was brilliantly vague—liberals heard it as 'I'm not all that conservative,' and conservatives heard it as 'I'm deeply religious.' It was about him as a person, not a program.\"\n\nIn a July 1999 speech to the Democratic Leadership Council, then-President Bill Clinton criticized Bush's \"compassionate conservative\" self-description, saying: \"This 'compassionate conservatism' has a great ring to it, you know? It sounds so good. And I've really worked hard to try to figure out what it means... I made an honest effort, and near as I can tell, here's what it means: It means, 'I like you. I do. And I would like to be for the patients' bill of rights and I'd like to be for closing the gun show loophole, and I'd like not to squander the surplus and, you know, save Social Security and Medicare for the next generation. I'd like to raise the minimum wage. I'd like to do these things. But I just can't, and I feel terrible about it.'\" Similarly, in December 2005, then-British Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking in the House of Commons, said: \"the only difference between compassionate conservatism and conservatism is that under compassionate conservatism they tell you they're not going to help you but they're really sorry about it.\"\n\nSome critics of George W. Bush criticized the phrase \"compassionate conservatism\" as simply sugarcoating, an empty phrase to make traditional conservatism sound more appealing to moderate voters. Liberal commentator Joe Conason, noting Bush's policy of tax cuts, wrote in 2003 that \"so far, being a 'compassionate conservative' appears to mean nothing very different from being a hardhearted, stingy, old-fashioned conservative.\" \nOthers on the left have viewed it as an effort to remove America's social safety net out of the hands of the government and give it to Christian churches. \"Liberals make a big mistake if they dismiss 'compassionate conservatism' as just a hypocritical catch phrase,\" wrote University of Colorado religion professor Ira Chernus. \"For the right, it is a serious scheme to give tax dollars to churches through so-called 'faith-based initiatives.'\" Nobel Prize–winning Keynesian economist and columnist Paul Krugman has called it a \"dog whistle\" to the religious right, referencing Marvin Olasky's \"The Tragedy of American Compassion,\" who believed the poor must help themselves and that poverty was the fault not of society but of the poor and of social workers. Krugman endorses Digby's analysis that right-wing compassionate 'charity' assumes that the giver has the right to investigate and dictate the life of the receiver, even for the smallest charity.\n\nConversely, the phrase has also been attacked from the right. John J. DiIulio, Jr. wrote that Bush's \"Duty of Hope\" speech, delivered in Indianapolis in May 1999, drew a \"negative reaction from his party's right wings. ... Many Republican conservative activists hated the center-hugging 'compassionate conservative.' Others favored it, but only as a rhetorical Trojan Horse. If a 'compassionate conservative' was actually a government-shrinking libertarian in religious drag, then fine. But, if Bush really meant what he said, Gore-like, about volunteerism not being enough ... or about rejecting as 'destructive' the Reagan-tested idea that government itself is the main problem, then many conservative Republicans would not suffer it.\" Herman Cain criticized the idea of \"compassionate conservatism\" as leading to the Bush administration's increased government spending, saying that it \"completely betrayed conservative voters and their decades of grassroots activism,\" and \"alienated the party's conservative base,\" noting Bush policies such as the Medicare prescription-drug benefit, which increased the size of the Medicare program by around $500 billion. \n\nIn 2006, conservative commentator Jonah Goldberg has written that compassionate conservatism as implemented by George W. Bush differs markedly from the theoretical concept: \"As countless writers have noted in National Review over the last five years, most conservatives never really understood what compassionate conservatism was, beyond a convenient marketing slogan to attract swing voters. The reality — as even some members of the Bush team will sheepishly concede — is that there was nothing behind the curtain.\" Similarly, conservative commentator Fred Barnes wrote: \"Bush has famously defined himself as a compassionate conservative with a positive agenda. Almost by definition, this makes him a big government conservative.\"\n\nThe phrase and the idea of compassionate conservativism declined after the Bush administration left office. In December 2011, Christian commentator Jim Wallis of Sojourners, citing harsh rhetoric toward the poor and immigrants from candidates for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, wrote that \"the compassionate conservative agenda has virtually disappeared from the Republican Party.\" In January 2012, commentator Amy Sullivan wrote that \"Just three years after George W. Bush left the White House, compassionate conservatives are an endangered species. In the new Tea Party era, they've all but disappeared from Congress, and their philosophy is reviled within the GOP as big-government conservatism.\" Sullivan noted that Republican presidential candidates \"have jostled to take the hardest line in opposing government-funded programs to help the poor.\" \"Washington Post\" columnist Eugene Robinson made similar observations.\n\nAccording to a 2006 report by the British think tank Policy Exchange, \"compassionate conservative\" has been \"one of the most prominent themes\" of the Conservative Party under David Cameron. In speeches and the party's statement of aims and values around 2005 and 2006, Cameron and other senior Conservatives emphasized a \"modern, compassionate conservatism\" theme. At the 2011 Conservative Party Conference, the party released a pamphlet titled \"Modern Compassionate Conservatism\", and senior leaders such as Cameron and foreign secretary William Hague said that had pushed for \"compassionate\" and \"cuddly\" policies. In 2015, Michael Gove described David Cameron as \"a modern, compassionate Conservative.\" The \"compassionate conservative\" idea is seen as a way for the Conservatives to distance themselves from the \"nasty party\" image of the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3531703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3531703", "title": "Constitutional Court (Portugal)", "text": "Constitutional Court (Portugal)\n\nThe Constitutional Court (, ) is a special court, defined by the Portuguese Constitution as part of the judicial branch of the Portuguese political organization. Unlike the rest of the country's courts, the Constitutional Court has important characteristics, such as a special composition, and unique competences. The main task of the court is to review the constitutionality of the newly approved laws, but it also has important powers related to the President of the Republic, the political parties and referenda.\n\nThe Portuguese Constitution defines the Constitutional Court as a completely independent organ, that operates independently from the other branches of government, such as the Executive or the Legislative. The judges of the Constitutional Court are independent and cannot be impeached. The decisions of the court are above the decisions of any other authority.\n\nThe court works in Lisbon, in the Ratton Palace located in Bairro Alto.\n\nThe court is composed by thirteen judges, ten of them are elected by the Assembly of the Republic, the main legislative branch of the country, and they must be elected by two thirds majority of the members of the Assembly. The remaining three are elected by the already elected judges. Of the thirteen judges, six must be chosen among the general court's judges, the remaining must have at least a degree in law. The judges serve a nine years mandate and cannot be re-elected.\n\nThe Constitutional Court elects its own president and vice-president and approves its own rules, schedule and budget.\n\nThe President of the Constitutional Court (together with the President of the Supreme Court) is the fourth person in the Portuguese state hierarchy (after the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly of the Republic, and the Prime Minister, in that order) and has several competences, such as conducting the relations between the court and the other authorities, receiving the candidatures for President of the Republic and presiding the court's sessions. The current president () is Manuel da Costa Andrade.\n\nThe Constitutional Court has several competences, defined in the Constitution, such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24496351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24496351", "title": "Copyright Catalog", "text": "Copyright Catalog\n\nUnited States copyright registrations, renewals, and other catalog entries since 1978 are published online at the \nU.S. Copyright Office website. Entries prior to 1978 are not published in the Online Catalog. \nCopyright registrations and renewals after 1890 were formerly published in semi-annual softcover catalogs called The Catalog of Copyright Entries or Copyright Catalog or published in microfiche. \n\nThe Copyright Office published the Catalog of Copyright Entries (CCE) in print format from 1891 through 1978. These volumes may often be available at federal depository libraries. From 1979 through 1982, the CCE was issued in microfiche format. The catalog was divided into parts according to the classes of works registered. Each CCE segment covered all registrations made during a particular period of time. Renewal registrations made from 1979 through 1982 are found in section 8 of the catalog. Renewals prior to that time were generally listed at the end of the volume containing the class of work to which they pertained. Effective with registrations made since 1982, the only way to see the CCE is by using the Internet to access the Copyright Office automated catalog. The automated catalog contains entries from 1978 forward. To access the catalog, go to copyright.gov.\n\nThe Catalog of Copyright Entries, the Copyright Card Catalog, and the online files are indexes, not reproductions of original documents. To view or copy the original documents yourself, you must visit the Copyright Office. Information such as registration numbers may be obtained from these files. Providing this information yourself rather than paying a fee to have the Office search for it will reduce the cost of obtaining records and copies from the Copyright Office.\n\nPart 1. BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS, INCLUDING SERIALS AND CONTRIBUTION TO PERIODICALS\n\nPart 2. PERIODICALS\n\nParts 3–4. DRAMAS AND WORKS PREPARED FOR ORAL DELIVERY\n\nPart 5. MUSIC\n\nPart 6. MAPS AND ATLASES\n\nParts 7–11A. WORKS OF ART, REPRODUCTIONS IN WORKS OF ART, SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, PHOTOGRAPHIC WORKS, PRINTS AND PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS\n\nPart 11B. COMMERCIAL PRINTS AND LABELS\n\nParts 12–13. MOTION PICTURES AND FILMSTRIPS\n\nFor selected categories, the Library of Congress published hardcover books of copyright registrations covering ten or more years. These include\n\nAll of the cumulative Copyright Catalogs listed above are out of print. However, the complete text of registrations and indexes in the four volumes of motion pictures from 1894 through 1959 have been reprinted in the Film Superlist series.\n\nA number of entities have scanned all or some of the volumes of the CCE. The Stanford Library and the University of Pennsylvania library have each scanned a section of the records and put them into a database. At the University of Pennsylvania, they have scanned book and serials renewals, searchable by year at http://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/cce/ . Stanford has also placed renewal records into a https://exhibits.stanford.edu/copyrightrenewals?forward=home searchable database. More recently, Google has indexed many volumes of the CCE into a searchable index, available at https://books.google.com/googlebooks/copyrightsearch.html . The Internet Archive has similarly scanned and indexed the volumes of the CCE, as well as many other US Copyright Office works, and makes the works both searchable and viewable as scans by searching for the \"collection:copyrightrecords\" at https://archive.org/.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7761600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7761600", "title": "Deer Act 1980", "text": "Deer Act 1980\n\nThe Deer Act 1980 (1980 c. 49) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. It came into operation in November 1980, and has since been fully repealed by the Deer Act 1991.\n\nThe main effect of the Act was to put measures in place to prevent the poaching of deer and control the sale of venison. It amended the Deer Act 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215971", "title": "Division of property", "text": "Division of property\n\nDivision of property, also known as equitable distribution, is a judicial division of property rights and obligations between spouses during divorce. It may be done by agreement, through a property settlement, or by judicial decree.\n\nDistribution of property is the division, due to a death or the dissolution of a marriage, of property which was owned by the deceased, or acquired during the course of the marriage. \n\nIn England & Wales, partners in or out of marriage can agree how the joint and severally hold assets will be divided without the intervention of the courts. Where agreement cannot be reached, the courts may be asked to determine a fair and equitable division. The case of Miller v Miller gave the wife a considerable proportion of the husband's recent gains resulting from dealings in the City even though the marriage was short lived.\n\nIn the event of a divorce, only marital property will be considered for property division and only those assets will be considered as marital property that have been acquired during the course of the particular marriage. Such assets may include marital home, bank accounts, investments (including stocks, bonds and retirement savings) and even businesses established during the course of the marriage in question. In some states (New York state), educational degrees earned during the marriage may be considered marital property. In such states, a resolution of the divorce will often entail payment from the educated spouse to the other spouse a share of their expected future earnings that are due to a degree they earned during the divorce, and may require the expertise of labor economists or other statistical and financial experts.\n\nIn \"Ferguson v. Ferguson, 639 So.2d 921 (Miss. 1994)\", the court described equitable distribution of marital property at divorce as more fair, or equitable, than the separate property system. The court may consider such factors as \"substantial contribution to the accumulation of the property, the market and emotional value of the assets, tax and other economic consequences of the distribution, the parties' needs, and any other factor relevant to an equitable outcome.\" Fairness is the prevailing guideline the court will use. Alimony payments, child support obligations and all other property will be considered. Even non-tangible contributions such as a spouse's domestic contributions to the household will be taken into account, whether that spouse has anything titled in their name or not. A spouse who has made non-tangible contributions may claim an equitable interest in the marital property at divorce.\n\nThe Uniform Marriage and Divorce Act §307 (UMDA §307) also allows for the equitable distribution of property and lists factors the court should consider, e.g. \"the duration of the marriage, and prior marriage of either party, antenuptial agreement of the parties [which is the same as a prenuptial agreement or premarital agreement], the age, health, station, occupation, amount and sources of income, vocational skills, employability, estate, liabilities, and needs of each of the parties, custodials provisions...\" etc. Marital misconduct is not a factor in the decision-making process.\n\nAnother form of property distribution at divorce is called \"community property distribution\".\n\nEquitable distribution is not the same as equal distribution. For example, upon dissolution of a marriage in which the wife served as a stay-at-home mother for a substantial portion of the marriage, a court may award the wife a more-than-50% share of distributed property as advance compensation for her projected need to return to the work force at a lower wage than she would have been able to command had she spent her time developing outside-the-home work experience rather than laboring inside the home.\n"}
{"id": "20750250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20750250", "title": "Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligations Act", "text": "Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligations Act\n\nThe Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligations Act or the DPBO Act (, ) is a piece of United States legislation that would allow LGBT federal employees to give their unrecognized same-sex spouses and partners health insurance, life insurance, government pensions, and other employment related benefits and obligations that married heterosexual federal employees enjoy by being married and heterosexual.\n\nThe House version of the bill was originally introduced December 19, 2007 by Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The bill garnered 90 cosponsors and was referred to the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties but was not acted upon.\n\nThe Senate version of the bill was also introduced on December 19, 2007, by Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-CT). The bill was referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of which Lieberman himself was the chair.\n\nA hearing was held on September 24, 2008, with testimony coming from the deputy director of the United States Office of Personnel Management, an executive at IBM, the president of the National Treasury Employees Union and two others. Though it garnered 21 Democrats, 1 Republican and 1 Independent as cosponsors, the Senate bill also died when the committee did not vote on it.\n\nThe act was reintroduced in the 111th Congress on May 20, 2009. The measure is sponsored by Reps. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) & Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) in the House of Representatives and by Sens. Joe Lieberman (I-CT) & Susan Collins (R-ME) in the Senate. The legislation has 140 cosponsors in the House and 31 in the Senate as of May 27, 2010.\n\nIn May 2009, Rep. Barney Frank told an interviewer from the \"Washington Blade\" that he believed supporters of the act \"have a shot\" at passing the bill. On June 17, 2009, President Obama announced his support for the Domestic Partners Benefits and Obligations Act, which he called \"crucial legislation that will guarantee these rights for all federal employees.\"\n\nOn November 18, 2009, the bill was reported out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee by a vote of 23-12. On December 16, 2009, the bill was reported out of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs by an 8-1 vote. Senator Bob Bennett (Junior senator, Utah) was the sole Committee vote against the bill.\n\nThe Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligations Act of 2011 was approved by voice vote by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on May 16, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "34599823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34599823", "title": "EX.UA", "text": "EX.UA\n\nEx.ua is a one-click hosting service that offers both free and commercial services. Operating from Ukraine, it is financed by advertisements on the website. Ex.ua is said to be the largest file-sharing service in Ukraine and allows uploads of up to 50 GB. The site's traffic accounted for 15–25% of domestic traffic.\n\nIn a 2010 letter to the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the RIAA described the site as one of the top pirate sites online.\n\nService was founded in the summer of 2009, after the closure of the Ministry of Interior of similar resources infostore.org.\n\nIn November 2010, the Recording Industry Association of America(RIAA) made ex.ua in the list of 25 sites that contribute to the spread of illegal music. The association claimed that the site was not a single video or song, the legality of which is confirmed by the spread of the copyright owner. After these events, the representative ex.ua Piskovyi Yuri said that the service can make free of charge, to deduct a percentage content creators and avoid accusations of copyright infringement.\n\nDecember 16, 2010 the site was temporarily unavailable due to technical reasons. Some electronic media reported that the service was closed for the distribution of unlicensed products. A day later the site worked again, but only became available for Ukrainian users.\n\nOn January 31, 2012, the office of Ex.ua was raided and 200 servers containing 6 petabytes of data were confiscated and 16 employees questioned. The blocking of \"ex.ua\" domain name by the \"Imena.ua\" registrar led to multiple DDoS attacks on Ukrainian government websites. Outraged general users also took part in the attacks, mainly using LOIC. The calls to join the attacks were spread through various forums. On February 3, 2012, Ex.ua was returned as the domain could not be seized for the alleged copyright infringements, and began restoring service.\n"}
{"id": "34376885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34376885", "title": "European Union Council Directive 1999/74/EC", "text": "European Union Council Directive 1999/74/EC\n\nEuropean Union Council Directive 1999/74/EC is legislation passed by the European Union on the minimum standards for keeping egg laying hens which effectively bans conventional battery cages. The directive, passed in 1999, banned conventional battery cages in the EU from 1 January 2012 after a 13-year phase-out. Battery cages were already banned in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden prior to 2012. The directive does not apply to establishments with fewer than 350 laying hens or establishments rearing breeding laying hens. Such establishments are, however, subject to the requirements of Directive 98/58/EC. The directive is not supported with fines, penalties or export bans.\n\nAs alternatives to battery cages, Directive 1999/74/EC allows non-cage systems and furnished cages. Furnished cages therefore represent a feasible alternative to battery cages in the EU after 2012. Under the directive, furnished cages must provide at least the following: 750 cm per hen, of which 600 cm is 45 cm high, a nest, a littered area for scratching and pecking, 15 cm of perch and 12 cm of food trough per hen and a claw shortening device. Austria banned battery cages in 2009 and is set to ban furnished cages by 2020. Belgium has also banned the battery cage – and proposes to ban furnished cages by 2024. Germany has introduced a ‘family cage’, which has more space than the furnished cages used in other countries, however, consumers in Germany have been rejecting these eggs. Outside the EU, Switzerland has already banned both the battery and furnished cage systems.\n\nIn February 2010, the Polish government formally requested the EU to delay enacting Directive 1999/74/EC by 5 years until 2017, however, this was unsuccessful.\n\nAccording to figures submitted to the European Commission in 2011, 14 countries were expected to be battery cage free by 1 January 2012. However, six states including Portugal, Poland and Romania admitted they would not be ready, while Spain and Italy, among others, did not know or would not say whether they will meet the deadline. In France one third of egg producers have gone out of business and according to figures of the UGPVB (the industry association) 5% of producers were still not compliant as of January 2012 and have had their licences withdrawn. This has led to fears that cheaper, illegal eggs, particularly liquid egg products, from non-compliant states will flood the market undercutting compliant egg producers. John Dalli, the EU health commissioner, has issued legal warnings to 13 countries over their lack of readiness or effort to enforce the ban. The 13 member states already found to be in breach of the directive are: Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Spain, Greece, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and the Netherlands.\n\nIt is clear that beyond the date of the law coming into effect, many hens are still being housed in battery cages. European Commission figures show that more than 47 million hens are still (January 2012) in conventional battery cages across the EU, representing 14.3% of production, although it has been reported this figure might be as high as 23% of EU egg production – equivalent to 84 million hens laying 70 million eggs a day.\n\n15 EU states reported to the EU's Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health that they had non-compliant producers. These states were Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, UK, Latvia, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain and Romania. Some of these countries, such as Italy and Belgium, admit to having 30% of illegal production.\n\nIn the UK, there are approximately 31 million egg laying hens. Over £400 million has been spent to meet the standards. In January 2012, reports stated that figures from the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) indicate 423,000 hens on 32 farms in the UK were still being housed in battery cages. This represents a non-compliance rate of 1%.\n"}
{"id": "51063170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51063170", "title": "Excommunicato interdictur omnis actus legitimus, ita quod agere non potest, nec aliquem convenire, licet ipse ab aliis possit conveniri", "text": "Excommunicato interdictur omnis actus legitimus, ita quod agere non potest, nec aliquem convenire, licet ipse ab aliis possit conveniri\n\nAn is a writ which issued out of chancery to prohibit an excommunicated person from every legal act, so that he cannot act, nor sue any person, but he may be sued by others.\n"}
{"id": "27136577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27136577", "title": "Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857", "text": "Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857\n\nThe Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857 () often called simply the Constitution of 1857 is the liberal constitution drafted by 1857 Constituent Congress of Mexico during the presidency of Ignacio Comonfort. It was ratified on February 5, 1857, establishing individual rights such as freedom of speech; freedom of conscience; freedom of the press; freedom of assembly; and the right to bear arms. It also reaffirmed the abolition of slavery, eliminated debtor prison, and eliminated all forms of cruel and unusual punishment, including the death penalty.\n\nSome articles were contrary to the interests of the Catholic Church, such as education free of dogma, the removal of institutional \"fueros\" (privileges) and the sale of property belonging to the church. The Conservative Party strongly opposed the enactment of the new constitution and this polarized Mexican society. The Reform War began as a result, and the struggles between liberals and conservatives were intensified with the implementation of the Second Mexican Empire under the support of the church. Years later, with the restored republic, the Constitution was in force throughout the country until 1917.\n\nHaving overthrown the dictatorship of Antonio López de Santa Anna in 1855, liberal leader Juan Nepomuceno Álvarez Hurtado held the presidency for a short period. According to the established in Plan of Ayutla convened the Constituent Congress on October 16 the same year, in order to establish headquarters in Dolores Hidalgo to draft a new constitution of liberal ideology. The following year, the incumbent president, Ignacio Comonfort, endorsed the call for moving the headquarters to Mexico City.\n\nThe Congress was divided between two main factions. The larger being the moderate liberals whose plan was to restore the Constitution of 1824 with some changes. It included prominent figures like Mariano Arizcorreta, Marcelino Castañeda, Joaquín Cardoso and Pedro Escudero y Echánove. The opposition was the \"pure liberals,\" who wanted to make a complete new version of the constitution. Among them were Ponciano Arriaga, Guillermo Prieto, Francisco Zarco, José María Mata and Santos Degollado. The discussions were heated and lasted over a year.\n\nPresident Comonfort interfered, through its ministers in favor of the moderate faction, which he preferred. Despite opposition from the executive branch and to be minority, 'pure liberals ensured that their proposals were included: the prohibition of purchase of property by ecclesiastical corporations, the exclusion of the clergy in public office, the abolition of ecclesiastical and military \"fueros\" (Juárez Law), and freedom of religion.\n\nThese reforms were contrary to the interests of the Catholic Church. During the course of sessions in Congress, an insurrection in favor of the clergy supported by \"conservative\", the staunchest opponents of the Liberals, gathered force in Zacapoaxtla and Puebla. Comonfort sent federal troops, and the rebels were subjected.\n\nFinally, the Constitution was promulgated on February 5, 1857, under the threats of the clergy that who swore the Constitution would be excommunicated.\n\nThe Constitution of 1857 consisted of 8 titles and 128 articles, was similar to the 1824 Constitution, federalism and representative republic was again implemented, which consisted of 23 states, a territory and the federal district. Supported the autonomy of municipalities in which each state was divided politically. The most relevant articles were:\n\nAmong other things, included a chapter on individual guarantees, and judicial proceedings to protect those rights known as amparo. (created, used and endorsed by the Republic of Yucatán, now, state of Yucatán)\n\nDespite the Texas case, some Deputies proposed a law granting certain rights to foreign colonization arguing that the country needed to be settled, the law was rejected.\n\nAt the time of the promulgation of the constitution, the nation was composed of 23 states and one federal territory. Nuevo León merges with Coahuila adopting the latter name, besides, ratified the creation of a new state and admitted three of the four territories as free states of the federation.\n\nThe only federal territory was: Baja California, Mexico City was called state of Valley of Mexico, but only if the powers of the Federation to move to another site. On February 26, 1864, Nuevo León was separated from Coahuila and regained its status as free state.\n\nOn December, 1856, Pope Pius IX spoke out against the new Constitution, criticizing the Juarez Law and Lerdo Law. In March 1857 the Archbishop José Lázaro de la Garza y Ballesteros, stated that Catholics could not swear allegiance to the Constitution on pain of excommunication.\n\nJustice Minister Ezequiel Montes met in the Holy See with Cardinal Secretary of State. The pope accepted the Ley Juárez and disposals of Lerdo Law, but demanded the ability to acquire political rights. The negotiations were interrupted by the resignation of President Comonfort.\n\nIt began to gestate a coup, General conservative Felix Maria Zuloaga promoted through several writings his repudiation to the Constitution. On December 17, 1857 was proclaimed the Plan of Tacubaya which aimed to repeal the Constitution and convene a new Constitutional Congress; in other words, a coup against the Congress and the Constitution. Several ministers of Presidential Cabinet resigned. President of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation, Benito Juárez, and the President of Congress, Isidoro Olvera, were taken prisoner.\n\nOn December 19, President Ignacio Comonfort adhered to the plan saying: \"I just change my legal title of president, by those of revolutionary miserable\". States of México, Puebla, San Luis Potosí, Tlaxcala and Veracruz annexed to the Plan Tacubaya. This last state changed side, through a revolution and switched to the Liberal side; the event was a major strategic blow against Comonfort. Without alternative, Comonfort had to resort to the \"pure\" and released Juarez and other political prisoners. On January 11, 1858, Comonfort decided to resign, with a guard went to Veracruz, and on February 7 sailed to the United States. Benito Juárez took office on January 21, 1858.\n\nThe Conservatives refused to recognize Juarez and was forced to move the \"Liberal government\" to Guanajuato. Felix Zuloaga established a \"Conservative Government\" in Mexico City; through the promulgation of Five Laws () repealed the liberal reforms. Thus began Reform War.\n\nStates of Jalisco, Guanajuato, Querétaro, Michoacán, Nuevo León, Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Colima and Veracruz supported the liberal government of Benito Juarez and the constitution of 1857. States of México, Puebla, San Luis Potosí, Chihuahua, Durango, Tabasco, Tlaxcala, Chiapas, Sonora, Sinaloa, Oaxaca and Yucatán supported the conservative government of Zuloaga.\n\nAfter the Liberal government won the Reform War, President Juarez and his government added to the Constitution of 1857, the Reform Laws that had been enacted in Veracruz. Because of the war, the Constitution remained without effect on almost all the country until January, 1861, when the Liberals returned to the capital. On 1862, as a result of Franco-Mexican War and the establishment of Second Mexican Empire, the validity of the Constitution was again suspended. On 1867 the government of Juarez overthrew the Empire, restore the Republic and the Constitution took effect in the country again.\n\nOn February 5, 1903 in protest against the regime of Porfirio Díaz a liberal group placed on the balcony of the newspaper's offices \"El hijo de El Ahuizote\" a great black curly for mourning with the legend \"The Constitution is dead,\" a precursor of many that eventually trigger the Mexican Revolution on 1910, that overthrew Diaz and end with the enactment of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1917 during the government of Venustiano Carranza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238487", "title": "Federal Election Commission", "text": "Federal Election Commission\n\nThe Federal Election Commission (FEC) is an independent regulatory agency whose purpose is to enforce campaign finance law in United States federal elections. Created in 1974 through amendments to the Federal Election Campaign Act, the commission describes its duties as \"to disclose campaign finance information, to enforce the provisions of the law such as the limits and prohibitions on contributions, and to oversee the public funding of Presidential elections.\"\n\nThe Commission is made up of six members, who are appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate. Each member serves a six-year term, and two seats are subject to appointment every two years. By law, no more than three Commissioners can be members of the same political party, and at least four votes are required for any official Commission action. \n\nThe chairmanship of the Commission rotates among the members each year, with no member serving as chairman more than once during a six-year term. However, a member may serve as chairman more than once by serving beyond the six-year mark if no successor is appointed; for example, Ellen Weintraub was chairman in both 2003 and 2013.\n\nThe Commission's role is limited to the administration of federal campaign finance laws. It enforces limitations and prohibitions on contributions and expenditures, administers the reporting system for campaign finance disclosure, investigates and prosecutes violations (investigations are typically initiated by complaints from other candidates, parties, watchdog groups, and the public), audits a limited number of campaigns and organizations for compliance, administers the presidential public funding programs for presidential candidates and, until recently, nominating conventions, and defends the statute in challenges to federal election laws and regulations.\n\nThe FEC also publishes reports filed by Senate, House of Representatives and Presidential campaigns that list how much each campaign has raised and spent, and a list of all donors over $200, along with each donor's home address, employer and job title. This database also goes back to 1980. Private organizations are legally prohibited from using these data to solicit new individual donors (and the FEC authorizes campaigns to include a limited number of \"dummy\" names as a measure to prevent this), but may use this information to solicit Political Action Committees. The FEC also maintains an active program of public education, directed primarily to explaining the law to the candidates, their campaigns, political parties and other political committees that it regulates.\n\nCritics of the FEC, including campaign finance reform supporters such as Common Cause and Democracy 21, have complained that it is a classic example of regulatory capture where it serves the interests of the ones it was intended to regulate. The FEC's bipartisan structure, which was established by Congress, renders the agency \"toothless.\" Critics also claim that most FEC penalties for violating election law come well after the actual election in which they were committed. Additionally, some critics claim that the commissioners tend to act as an arm of the \"regulated community\" of parties, interest groups, and politicians when issuing rulings and writing regulations. Others point out, however, that the commissioners rarely divide evenly along partisan lines, and that the response time problem may be endemic to the enforcement procedures established by Congress. To complete steps necessary to resolve a complaint – including time for defendants to respond to the complaint, time to investigate and engage in legal analysis, and finally, where warranted, prosecution – necessarily takes far longer than the comparatively brief period of a political campaign.\n\nCritics including former FEC chairman Bradley Smith and Stephen M. Hoersting, executive director of the Center for Competitive Politics, criticize the FEC for pursuing overly aggressive enforcement theories that amount to an infringement on the First Amendment right to free speech.\n\nDivision over the issue became especially prominent during the last several years of the Obama administration. Commissioners deadlocked on several votes over whether to regulate Twitter, Facebook, and other online mediums for political speech, as well as a vote to punish Fox News for the selection criteria it used in a presidential debate. Democrats argued for more regulation on the basis that it would protect consumers and encourage more inclusive political speech. Republicans opposed regulation, with former chairman Lee E. Goodman accusing Democrats of trying to alter the First Amendment by \"administrative fiat.\"\n\nCritics of the Commission also argue that the membership structure regularly causes deadlocks on 3-3 votes, but others argue that deadlocks are actually quite rare, and typically based on principle rather than partisanship. Since 2008, 3-3 votes have become more common at the FEC. From 2008 to August 2014, the FEC has had over 200 tie votes, accounting for approximately 14 percent of all votes in enforcement matters.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45144880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45144880", "title": "Feindstrafrecht", "text": "Feindstrafrecht\n\nThe Feindstrafrecht (German for \"Criminal Law of the Enemy\") is a criminal law and civil rights concept outlined in 1985 by the German criminal law professor and legal philosopher Günther Jakobs. The Feindstrafrecht says that certain people, as enemies of the society (or the state), do not deserve the protections of the civil or penal law. The Feindstrafrecht allows every available means to pursue and punish those enemies.\n\nIt is worth pointing out that the Feindstrafrecht is not a law. Most notably, it means the suspension of certain laws in order to protect the society or the state from certain dangers. Jakobs writings propose the term \"Criminal Law of the Citizen\" (\"Bürgerstrafrecht\") as the counterpart of the \"Criminal Law of the Enemy\". The concept of the Feindstrafrecht is opposed by most scholars of penal law and legal philosophy alike. Günther Jakobs points out that he was merely describing the existing Feindstrafrecht, while critics say that he took an affirmative position in his 2004 publication.\n\nIn the latter publication, Jakobs proposes that anybody who does not respect the laws and the legal order of a state - or even wants to destroy them - should lose all rights as a citizen and as a human being, and the state should be allowed to persecute him or her with all available means. This means that a terrorist who wants to subvert the societal norms, a criminal who ignores all laws, or a mafia member who only respects the rules of his clan should be designated as \"unpersons\" and not deserve to be treated as a citizen anymore. Rather, such people must be treated as enemies.\n\nJakobs justifies the necessity of a Feindstrafrecht philosophically, and refers to the Hobbesian social contract theory and its interpretation by Immanuel Kant. Whoever terminates that social contract by dishonoring it, leaves society and enters the lawless natural state. Thereby, he loses his rights as a person and turns into an enemy, and as such, he has to be persecuted by the society.\n\nAlthough the Feindstrafrecht has been applied back by the Germanic peoples and in the Medieval Ages, the German Nazi era was notorious for it. Beggars, disabled people, Jews, trade union members and other persons were designated \"Volksschädlinge\" (\"vermin of the people\"), and thus imprisoned at will by the Gestapo, and quickly condemned by the Volksgerichtshof.\n\nIn Colombia, since 1990 a kind of Feindstrafrecht is applied against drug dealers. The accused are imprisoned without accusation, often for years, and held without access to a lawyer. The accused are then often tried based on anonymous witness evidence.\n\nThe designation of Al Qaida terrorists and Taliban fighters as \"unlawful combatant\" and their imprisonment at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base is also likened to the Feindstrafrecht concept, as are the targeted killings by drones of the U.S. Air Force.\n\nCriticism is leveled by several law scholars, for example because the Feindstrafrecht in itself is not a law, but intends to disable existing laws in order to deprive people of legal protections. The German Basic law also stipulates that human dignity of all people has to be protected by the German government, not only the dignity of those who respect the law. The social philosopher Oskar Negt, in his 2010 work \"Der politische Mensch - Demokratie als Lebensform\", summarizes some other criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "44194432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44194432", "title": "Feudal duties", "text": "Feudal duties\n\nFeudal duties were the set of reciprocal financial, military and legal obligations among the warrior nobility in a feudal system. These duties developed in both Europe and Japan with the decentralisation of empire and due to lack of monetary liquidity, as groups of warriors took over the social, political, judicial, and economic spheres of the territory they controlled. While many feudal duties were based upon control of a parcel of land and its productive resources, even landless knights owed feudal duties such as direct military service in their lord's behest. Feudal duties were not uniform over time or across political boundaries. And in their later development also included duties from and to the peasant population, such as abergement.\n\nFeudal duties ran both ways, both up and down the feudal hierarchy; however, aside from distribution of land and maintenance of landless retainers, the main obligation of the feudal lord was to protect his vassals, both militarily from incursion and judicially via court justice. In addition to lands, the lord could grant what were called \"immunities\", but were rights to conduct governmental functions such as the collecting of taxes and tolls, the holding of judicial proceedings, and even the coinage of money. In addition there were contingent duties the lord owed such as the duty to take back a fief that was rejected by an heir (\"droit de déguerpissement\"). Sometimes, particularly in the Frankish kingdoms, a lord would grant a fief to an assemblage of men rather than to a single vassal. These grants were called \"bans\" and included extensive governmental autonomy, or immunities.\n\nDuties owed by a vassal to his lord can be categorised into four types: \n\nIn Europe, church lands were also held with feudal duties. While some churchmen did provide direct military service, most either hired substitutes, paid scutage, or later converted the duty to one of prayer, frankalmoin.\n\nFeudal duties included, but were not limited to:\n"}
{"id": "38212203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38212203", "title": "Florida v. Jimeno", "text": "Florida v. Jimeno\n\nFlorida v. Jimeno, 500 U.S. 248 (1991), was a U.S. Supreme Court case involving the exclusionary rule of evidence under the Fourth Amendment.\n\nA police officer pulled over Enio Jimeno for a traffic violation after following him due to information that he may have been involved in a drug deal. Jimeno consented to a search of his car, but nothing more. The officer had informed Jimeno that he suspected him of having drugs in the car. The officer opened up a package and found cocaine inside. At trial, Jimeno argued that his consent to search his car did not extend to his permission to search within containers and packages. The lower court and the Florida Supreme Court upheld that Jimeno's consent did not cover the officer's efforts and thus ruled in Jimeno's favor. The State of Florida appealed to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nIn a 7-2 vote, the Court overturned the lower courts' decision and ruled that the officer's search of containers within the car were not considered unreasonable. Since a reasonable person would expect narcotics to be carried in a container, and because the officer told Jimeno of his suspicions, the Court ruled that the officer acted within reason. Jimeno was thus found guilty and the officer was not in violation of the 4th amendment.\n\nThis case grants law enforcement greater ability to conduct searches. It also narrows the definition of unreasonable searches and thus limits the protection citizens can seek against such searches. Evidence cannot be excluded from a case if it is deemed to have been discovered through reasonable means.\n"}
{"id": "43812310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43812310", "title": "French v Auckland City Council", "text": "French v Auckland City Council\n\nFrench v Auckland City Council [1974] 1 NZLR 340 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding land based nuisance claims in tort.\n\nFrench leased some land in Glendowie. Auckland City owned some of the neighbouring land.\n\nInitially, both parties land were infested with weeds, until French started a weed eradication program, whilst the council did not.\n\nAs a result of the weeds on the council land, their seeds continually reinfested French's land.\n\nEventually, French sued the council for nuisance.\n\nThe court awarded French $799.39 in damages for weed eradication.\n"}
{"id": "2153003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153003", "title": "Hamoodur Rahman", "text": "Hamoodur Rahman\n\nChief Justice Hamoodur Rahman (; 1 November 1910 – 20 December 1981), . , was a Pakistani jurist and an academic who served as the Chief Justice of Pakistan from 18 November 1968 till 31 October 1975.\n\nEducated in law and trained as a jurist from the United Kingdom, he earned notability and international fame when he chaired the War Enquiry Commission to investigate the of the war with India that led the liberation of East Pakistan and provide insightful recommendations to prevent future armed foreign intervention. In addition, Rehman served as a law professor in the faculty of Karachi University and vice-chancellor of University of Dhaka while remaining active in promoting literacy across the country. After the independence of Bangladesh, Rehman's family retained Pakistan's citizenship and his son served as the Chief Justice of Islamabad High Court.\n\nChief Justice Rahman remained a very respected figure in Pakistan's judiciary, and is hailed for his honesty and patriotism that Senior Justice Khalil-ur-Rehman Ramday once publicly noted that \"his Commission was the most honorable commission that was investigated by a Bengali Chief Justice, in spite of East-Pakistan disaster.\"\n\nHamoodur Rahman was born in Patna, Bihar, British India on 1 November 1910. Despite being born in Bihar, Rahman hailed from an Indian Muslim family. Hamoodur Rahman's family practised law before the Partition of India— his brother, Maudoodur Rahman, was also a barrister who ascended as a Judge of Calcutta High Court. His Father Khan Bahadur Dr Dawood ur Rahman was the first Muslim civil surgeon in undivided India to do FRCS form Royal college London. He was the personal surgeon to the Emir of Kuwait. <ref name=name=\"Supreme court of Pakistan\">\n"}
{"id": "32239164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32239164", "title": "Hot Coffee (film)", "text": "Hot Coffee (film)\n\nHot Coffee is a 2011 documentary film that analyzes and discusses the impact of tort reform on the United States judicial system. It is directed by Susan Saladoff, who has practiced as a medical malpractice attorney for at least 26 years. The film premiered at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival on January 24, 2011, and later aired on HBO on June 27, 2011, as a part of HBO films documentary summer series. The title is derived from the \"Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants\" lawsuit, in which the plaintiff Liebeck was severely burned after spilling into her lap hot coffee purchased from a McDonald's.\n\n\"Hot Coffee\" discusses several cases and relates each to tort reform in the United States:\n\nThis segment features interviews with Liebeck's family and focuses on their perspective of the trial. This included news clips, comments from celebrities and politicians about the case, as well as myths and misconceptions, including how many people thought she was driving when the incident occurred and thought that she suffered only minor superficial burns, while in truth she suffered severe burns and needed extensive surgeries. The concept of accountability is also discussed.\nThe film also discussed in great depth how \"Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants\" is often used and misused to describe a frivolous lawsuit and referenced in conjunction with tort reform efforts. It argued that corporations have spent millions distorting certain tort cases in order to promote tort reform.\n\nSenator Al Franken features prominently in this segment. He worked closely with Jones to get her case heard in court and proposed legislative changes to mandatory arbitration clauses. Subsequent to the film's release, Jones succeeded in trying her civil case before a federal court in Houston. However, she was unsuccessful in convincing a jury that she had been raped or that KBR had engaged in fraud when inducing her to sign her employment contract. There was a long list of inconsistencies and contradictions exposed in her story during the trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "45638053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45638053", "title": "Index of gun politics articles", "text": "Index of gun politics articles\n"}
{"id": "51728131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51728131", "title": "International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds", "text": "International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds\n\nThe International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF) is a nonprofit international group of sovereign wealth funds managers which was established in 2009. It is based in London, England.\n\nIn 2009, a group of 23 leading state-owned international investors from around the world established the IFSWF’s precursor, the International Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds, following discussions with global groups such as the G20, IMF, and the U.S. Department of Treasury in 2007 and 2008. The Working Group created a set of Generally Accepted Principles and Practices, better known as the \"Santiago Principles\", for sovereign wealth funds’ institutional governance and risk-management frameworks. Following the Kuwait Declaration in 2009, the International Working Group became the IFSWF with the mandate of helping members implement the Principles.\n\nAs of February 2018 IFSWF had 32 members, including some of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds, like the China Investment Corporation, Kuwait Investment Authority, and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. It was set up by the funds, so they could come together and create an organisation to promote best practice within their field. Its focus is \"to exchange views on issues of common interest and to facilitate an understanding of sovereign wealth funds' activities and of the Santiago Principles\".\n\nThe 24 Santiago Principles are a voluntary standard of best practice principles and practices endorsed by the IFSWF members for the management of the Sovereign Wealth Funds. Its member funds collectively have about $5.5 trillion under management, representing 80% of assets managed by sovereign funds globally.\n\nWhen established the IFSWF formalized a limited number of partnerships with world-leading financial and academic partners. The inaugural meeting of IFSWF was held in Baku, Azerbaijan, and it was hosted by the State Oil Fund of Azerbaijan and the government of Azerbaijan. In 2016, the IFSWF and Standards Board for Alternative Investments establish a mutual observer relationship to share knowledge and experience with the objective to raise Standards in the financial industry.\n\nLooking at the most recently published accounts at Companies House, IFSWF Limited made a Net profit of £176,758 GBP as of December 31, 2015. This included a nonrefundable capital transfer form the IMF in relation to accumulated membership fees of £884,194 GBP. The accounts are generated in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards.\n\n"}
{"id": "10041299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10041299", "title": "Iraq oil law (2007)", "text": "Iraq oil law (2007)\n\nThe Iraq Oil Law, also referred to as the Iraq Hydrocarbon Law was a piece of legislation submitted to the Iraqi Council of Representatives in May 2007 that laid out a framework for the regulation and development of Iraq's oil fields.\n\nThe legislation started when the U.S.-backed Iraqi cabinet approved a new oil law that was set to give foreign companies the long-term contracts and the safe legal framework they have been waiting for. The law rattled labour unions and international campaigners, who say oil production should remain in the hands of Iraqis.\n\nOn March 10, 2007, prominent Iraqi parliamentarians, politicians, ex-ministers and oil technocrats urged the Baghdad parliament to reject Iraq's controversial hydrocarbon law, fearing that the new legislation would further divide the country already witnessing civil strife.\n\nOn April 28, 2007, discussions turned contentious among the more than 60 Iraqi oil officials reviewing Iraq's draft hydrocarbons bill in the United Arab Emirates. But the dispute highlighted the need for further negotiations on the proposed law that was stalled in talks for nearly eight months, then pushed through Iraq's Cabinet without most key provisions.\n\nBy December 2, 2007, The Bush administration was concerned that recent security gains in Iraq may be undermined by continuing political gridlock, and started pushing the Iraqi government to complete long-delayed reform legislation within six months.\n\nOn June 30, 2008, a group of American advisers led by a small State Department team played an integral part in drawing up contracts between the Iraqi government and five major Western oil companies to develop some of the largest fields in Iraq American officials say.\n\nIn June 2008, the Iraqi Oil Ministry announced plans to go ahead with small one- or two-year no-bid contracts to Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total and BP — once partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company — along with Chevron and smaller firms to service Iraq’s largest fields. Several United States senators had criticized the deal, arguing it was hindering efforts to pass the hydrocarbon law.\n\nBy July 1, 2008, Iraq's government invited foreign firms Monday to help boost the production of the country's major oil fields, beginning a global competition for access to the world's third-largest reserves.\n\nBy February 2009, Iraq had \"sweetened\" the terms it was the offering international oil companies vying to develop the country’s reserves in the first concrete example of a global shift in power beginning to sweep through the oil industry.\n\nIraq, which pre-qualified about 45 companies to bid on oil projects, plans to award contracts for the six partly developed and four undeveloped fields offered in its second licensing round by mid-December.\n\nThe Iraqi oil industry had been completely nationalized by 1972. The government in the 1990s, under the presidency of Saddam Hussein, gave production share agreements (PSAs) to Russian and Chinese companies which gave a profit percentage of less than 10 percent.\n\nThe Bush administration hired the consulting firm BearingPoint to help write the law in 2004. The bill was approved by the Iraqi cabinet in February 2007. The Bush administration considers the passage of the law a benchmark for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.\nOne stumbling block was the unpopularity of the law, as it is perceived by the Iraqi people. An opinion poll conducted in 2007 by Oil Change International and other groups shows 63% of Iraqis surveyed would \"prefer Iraq's oil to be developed and produced by Iraqi state-owned companies [than] by foreign companies\". This explains why the law had stalled in the Iraqi parliament.\n\nThe new law authorizes production share agreements (PSAs) which guarantees a profit for foreign oil companies.\n\nThe central government distributes remaining oil revenues throughout the nation on a per capita basis. The draft law allows Iraq's provinces freedom from the central government in giving exploration and production contracts. Iraq's constitution allows governorates to form a semi-independent regions, fully controlling their own natural resources.\n\nSome critics have claimed that the new Iraqi Oil law was not needed since Iraq has the cheapest oil to extract. Other analysts have claimed that the no-bid contracts given to U.S oil companies constitute exploitation since many non-U.S companies would give the same service for shorter contracts and lower percentage of revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177778", "title": "Islamic economics", "text": "Islamic economics\n\nIslamic economics () is a term used to refer to Islamic commercial jurisprudence (, \"fiqh al-mu'āmalāt\").\n\nIslamic commercial jurisprudence entails the rules of transacting finance or other economic activity in a \"Shari'a\" compliant manner, i.e., a manner conforming to Islamic scripture (Quran and sunnah).\nIslamic jurisprudence (\"fiqh\") has traditionally dealt with determining what is required, prohibited, encouraged, discouraged, or just permissible, according to the revealed word of God (Quran) and the religious practices established by Muhammad (sunnah). This applied to issues like property, money, employment, taxes, along with everything else. The social science of economics, on the other hand, works to describe, analyse and understand production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, and studied how to best achieve policy goals, such as full employment, price stability, economic equity and productivity growth.\n\nIn the mid-twentieth century, campaigns began promoting the idea of specifically Islamic patterns of economic thought and behavior. By the 1970s, \"Islamic economics\" was introduced as an academic discipline in a number of institutions of higher learning throughout the Muslim world and in the West. The central features of an Islamic economy are often summarized as: (1) the \"behavioral norms and moral foundations\" derived from the Quran and Sunnah; (2) collection of \"zakat\" and other Islamic taxes, (3) prohibition of interest (\"riba\") charged on loans.\n\nAdvocates of Islamic economics generally describe it as neither socialist nor capitalist, but as a \"third way\", an ideal mean with none of the drawbacks of the other two systems.\nAmong the claims made for an Islamic economic system by Islamic activists and revivalists are that the gap between the rich and the poor will be reduced and prosperity enhanced by such means as the discouraging of the hoarding of wealth,\ntaxing wealth (through \"zakat\") but not trade, exposing lenders to risk through Profit sharing and venture capital,\ndiscouraging of hoarding of food for speculation,\nand other activities that Islam regards as sinful such as unlawful confiscation of land. Critics (Timur Kuran, Feisal Khan) have described it as primarily a \"vehicle for asserting the primacy of Islam\", with economic reform being only a secondary motive.\n\nAccording to Hasan Raza, after more than six decades of its formal/ informal existence, a consensus definition of Islamic economics has not yet emerged. Some definitions that have been offered include:\n\n\nFIqh (religious law) has developed several traditional concepts having to do with economics. These included:\n\nAnother source lists \"general rules\" include prohibition of \"Riba\", \"Gharar\", and also \n\nThese concepts, like others in Islamic law, came from study of the Quran and ahadith—or as one observer put it, were \nconstructed on the basis of isolated prescriptions, anecdotes, examples, words of the Prophet, all gathered together and systematized by commentators according to an inductive, casuistic method.\"\nIn addition to Quran and ahadith sometimes other sources such as \"al-urf\" (custom), or \"al-ijma\" (consensus of the jurists) are employed, to create laws that determine whether actions were forbidden, discouraged, allowed, encouraged and obligatory for Muslims. The different school of fiqh (\"madhhab\") vary slightly in their rulings.\n\nWorks of fiqh are typically divided into different \"books\" such as a Book of \"Iman\", of \"Salah\", \"Zakat\", \"Taqwa\", \"Hajj,\" but not `economics` or `economy`. Some brief works might contain almost nothing related to matters of property, sales, finance Others do not gather questions on economic issues in one heading, the case in \"Tawzih al-masa'il\", a work of fatawa by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who although a pioneer of political Islam approached the subject of economy\"as the classical ulamas do ... the chapter on selling and buying (\"Kharid o forush\") comes after the one on pilgrimage and present economic questions as individual acts open to moral analysis: `To lend [without interest, on a note from the lender] is among the good works that are particularly recommended in the verses of the Quran and in the Traditions.`\"\nOther works divided the subjects of fiqh into four \"quarters\": typically worship (al-`Ibadat), marriage and family law (al-Munakahat), criminal law (Jinayat), commercial transaction law (\"Mu'amalat\"). At least one author (M. Kahf) writes that \"Mu'amalat\" is \"closely related\" to Islamic Economics. (However even with the \"quarters\" division of fiqh topics \"mu'amalat\" would not include inheritance or wedding dower (\"mahr\") (which at least often comes under marriage and family law), or calculation of alms (\"zakat,\" which comes under \"al-`Ibadat\")).\n\nA number of scholars (Olivier Roy, Timur Kuran, Omar Norman) have noted the recentness of reflecting on economic issues in the Islamic world, and the difference between economics the social science based on data, and Islamic jurisprudence based on revealed truth.\n\nSalman Ahmed Shaikh and Monzer Kahf insist on a clear distinction between the roles of \"Fiqh\" and Islamic Economics, Shaikh saying to be meritorious as a separate field of inquiry, Islamic economics cannot confine itself just to explaining and deducing laws in economic matters based on core principles. Since this function is already performed by the discipline of Islamic jurisprudence ... \nM. Kahf writes that \"mu'amalat\" and Islamic economics \"often intermingle\", \"mu'amalat\" \"sets terms and conditions of conduct for economic and financial relationships in the Islamic economy\" and provides the \"grounds on which new instruments\" of Islamic financing are developed, but that the \"nature of \"Fiqh\" imposes a concern about individual transactions and their minute legalistic characteristics\", so that analyzing Islamic economics in terms of \"Fiqh\"\" risks losing \"the ability to provide a macro economic theory\".\n\nAccording to economist Muhammad Akram Khan the \"main plank\" of Islamic economics is the \"theory of riba\", while \"another landmark\" is zakat, a tax on wealth and income. According to another contemporary writer Salah El-Sheikh, \"Islamic economic principles\" (what he calls a \"FiqhiConomic model\") utilize the Faqīh (Islamic jurisprudence) as supporting material, but are grounded upon the ethical teachings within the Qu'rān. Sharīah's basic tenets involve gharar and (fadl māl bilā 'iwad). Gharar insists all knowledge about a trade or transaction is known before two individuals complete a transaction and (fadl māl bilā 'iwad) warns against unjustified enrichment through trade and business. These tenets were \"among the first economic regulations\" and their philosophy can be seen today in modern Capitalism. Within Sharīah, El-Sheikh states, Gharar functions as a divine deterrent against asymmetric information and allows trade to prosper. Riba, ensures each transaction is conducted at a fair price, not allowing one party to benefit exceedingly, which shares a parallel philosophy with Karl Marx \"Das Kapital\": seeking a greater outcome for the community.\n\nClassical scholars in the Muslim world did however, make valuable contributions to Islamic thought on issues involving production, consumption, income, wealth, property, taxation, land ownership, etc. are Abu Yusuf (d. 798), Muhammad bin al-Hasan (d. 805), Al-Mawardi (d. 1058), Ibn Hazm (d. 1064), Al-Sarakhsi (d. 1090), Al-Tusi (d. 1093), Al-Ghazali (d. 1111), Al-Dimashqi (d. after 1175), Ibn Rushd (d. 1187), Ibn Taymiyyah (d.1328), Ibn al-Ukhuwwah (d. 1329), Ibn al-Qayyim (d. 1350), Sayyid Ali Hamadani (d. 1384), Al-Shatibi (d. 1388), Ibn Khaldun (d. 1406), Al-Maqrizi (d. 1442), Al-Dawwani (d. 1501), and Shah Waliyullah (d. 1762).\n\nAbu Yusuf (d. 798) was author of the book \"al Kharaj\"—literally \"the return or revenue\" but was used by the author to mean \"public revenues and taxation\"—which was a policy guide to Harun al-Rashid, the fifth Abbasid Caliph. Muhammad bin al-Hasan (d.805) wrote \"al Iktisab fi al Rizq al Mustatab\" [Earned Desired income], intended as advice to businessmen \"in their endeavors to create income opportunities\". Abu 'Ubaid al Qasim bin Sallam (d.839) was the author of \"al-Amwal\" (plural of \"wealth\").\n\nPerhaps the most well-known Islamic scholar who wrote about economics issues was Ibn Khaldun, who has been call \"the father of modern economics\" by I.M. Oweiss. Ibn Khaldun wrote on what is now called economic and political theory in the introduction, or \"Muqaddimah\" (\"Prolegomena\"), of his \"History of the World\" (\"Kitab al-Ibar\"). He discussed what he called \"asabiyya\" (social cohesion), which he cited as the cause of some civilizations becoming great and others not. Ibn Khaldun felt that many social forces are cyclic, although there could be sudden sharp turns that break the pattern.\n\nHis idea about the benefits of the division of labor also relate to \"asabiyya\", the greater the social cohesion, the more complex the successful division may be, the greater the economic growth. He noted that growth and development positively stimulates both supply and demand, and that the forces of supply and demand are what determines the prices of goods. He also noted macroeconomic forces of population growth, human capital development, and technological developments effects on development. In fact, Ibn Khaldun thought that population growth was directly a function of wealth.\n\nMedieval Islamic economics appears to have somewhat resembled a form of capitalism, some arguing that it laid the foundations for the development of modern capitalism.\n\nAccording to Timur Kuran, \"not until the mid-twentieth century\" was there any body of thought that could be called \"Islamic economics\", that was \"recognizable as a coherent or self-contained doctrine\". But around 1950 \"campaigns launched to identify self-consciously, if not also exclusively, Islamic patterns of economic thought and behavior\". The famous early-20th Century Muslim nationalist and author Muhammad Iqbal, for example, did not refer to religion in his treatise on economics.\n\nIslamic economics grew naturally from the Islamic revival and political Islam whose adherents considered Islam to be a complete system of life in all its aspects, rather than a spiritual formula and believed that it logically followed that Islam must have an economic system, unique from and superior to non-Islamic economic systems. \"Islamic economics\" \"emerged\" in the 1940s according to the Encyclopedia of Islam and the Muslim World. Maulana ala Maududi's 1941 address \"The economic problem of man and its Islamic solution\" (\"Insaan ka Maashi Maslah aur aus ka Islami Hul\") is \"generally considered to be one of the founding documents of modern Islamic economics\"\n\nMore conservative salafi have shown less interest in socioeconomic issues, asking the question, \"the prophet and his companions didn't study `laws` of economics, look for patterns, strive for understanding of what happens in commerce, production, consumption. Why should we?\" Maududi himself also dismissed the need for a \"new science of economics, embodied in voluminous books, with high-sounding terminology and large organisation\", as the true \"economic problem of man\" — along with all his social, political and other problems — \"can be easily understood\" and is simply the failure to follow Islamic law.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Shi'a thinkers worked to describe Islamic economics' \"own answers to contemporary economic problems.\" Several works were particularly influential:\n\nAl-Sadr in particular was described as having \"almost single-handedly developed the notion of Islamic economics\"\n\nIn their writings, Sadr and the other authors \"sought to depict Islam as a religion committed to social justice, the equitable distribution of wealth, and the cause of the deprived classes,\" with doctrines \"acceptable to Islamic jurists,\" while refuting existing non-Islamic theories of capitalism and Marxism. Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr and also cleric Mahmoud Taleghani developed an \"Islamic economics\" emphasizing a major role for the state in matters such as circulation and equitable distribution of wealth, and a reward to participants in the marketplace for being exposed to risk or liability. \nThis version of Islamic economics, which influenced the Iranian Revolution, called for public ownership of land and of large \"industrial enterprises,\" while private economic activity continued \"within reasonable limits.\" These ideas informed the large public sector and public subsidy policies of the Iranian Revolution.\n\nSunni cleric Taqiuddin al-Nabhani proposed economic system (\"Nidham ul-Iqtisad fil Islam\" (The Economic System of Islam) by Taqiuddin Nabhani (1953)) combined public ownership of large chunks of the economy (utilities, public transport, health care, energy resources such as oil, and unused farm land), with use of the gold standard and specific instructions for the gold and silver weights of coins, arguing this would \"demolish ... American control and the control of the dollar as an international currency.\"\n\nIn the Sunni world the first international conference on Islamic economics was held at the King Abdulaziz University in Jeddah in 1976. Since then the International Association for Islamic Economics in collaboration with the Islamic Development Bank has held conferences in Islamabad (1983), Kuala Lumpur (1992), Loughborough (2000), Bahrain (2003), Jakarta (2005) and Jeddah (2008), Iqbal (2008). In addition there have been hundreds of seminars, workshops and discussion groups around the world on Islamic economics and finance. In the U.S. a small number of patent applications have been filed for Sharia compliant financial service methods.\nWhat has been called one of \"two versions\" of \"Islamic economy\" existed during the first ten years (1979-1989) of the Islamic Republic of Iran during the life of Supreme Leader (and revolution founder) Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. This was an \"Islamist socialist, and state-run\": It was \"little by little supplanted\" by a more liberal economic policy.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, as the Islamic revolution failed to reach the per capita income level achieved by the regime it overthrew, and Communist states and socialist parties in the non-Muslim world turned away from socialism, Muslim interest shifted away from government ownership and regulation. In Iran, \"\"eqtesad-e Eslami\" (meaning both Islamic economics and economy) ... once a revolutionary shibboleth, is indubitably absent in all official documents and the media. It disappeared from Iranian political discourse\" about 1990. During the era of Zia-ul-Haq, several Islamic economic concepts and practices were introduced into the domestic economy, as part of Zia's Islamisation reforms (see Islamic economics in Pakistan).\n\nThe term lived on in the Muslim world, shifting form to the less ambitious goal of interest-free banking. Some Muslim bankers and religious leaders suggested ways to integrate Islamic law on usage of money with modern concepts of ethical investing. In banking this was done through the use of sales transactions (focusing on the fixed rate return modes) to support investing without interest-bearing debt. Many modern writers have strongly criticized this approach as a means of covering conventional banking with an Islamic facade. (Sohrab Behada has argued that the economic system proposed by Islam is essentially a capitalist one.)\n\nAs of 2008 there were:\n\nKing Abdulaziz University, Jeddah hosted the first international conference on Islamic economics in 1976. Thereafter the International Association for Islamic Economics in collaboration with the Islamic Development Bank has held conferences in Islamabad (1983), Kuala Lumpur (1992), Loughborough (2000), Bahrain (2003), Jakarta (2005) and Jeddah (2008) Iqbal 2008).\n\nAlong with these achievements, some Islamic economists have complained of problems in the academic discipline: a shift in interest away from Islamic Economics to Islamic Finance since the 1980s, a shortage of university courses, reading materials that are \"either scant or of poor quality\", lack of intellectual freedom, \"narrow focus\" on interest-free banking and zakat without data-based research to substantiate claim made for them—that interest causes economic problems or that zakat solves them.\n\nA number of economists have lamented that while Islamic Finance was originally a \"subset\" of Islamic Economics, economics and research in pure Islamic economics has been \"shifted to the back burner\". Funding for research has gone to Islamic Finance despite the lack of \"scientific knowledge to back\" the claims made for Islamic Finance. Enrollment has subsided in classes and second and third generation Islamic economists are scarce, some institutions have \"lost their real direction and some have even been closed\". and interest of economists in the field's \"grand idea\" of providing an alternative to capitalism and socialism has \"yielded\" to the \"needs\" of the \"industry\" of Islamic Finance.\nAccording to economist Rasem Kayed, while a number of universities and institutes of higher learning now offer courses on Islamic economics and finance \"most of the courses offered by these institutions pertain to Islamic finance rather than Islamic economics.\" \nSurveying Islamic economics and finance courses being offered as of 2008 by 14 universities in Muslim countries, Kayed found 551 courses in conventional economics and finance, and only 12 courses in Islamic economics and finance (only 2% of the total). This \"appalling and intolerable ... negligence\" was made worse by the curriculum of the courses which failed to debate \"the issues\" the discipline or give \"due thought to ... the future development of Islamic financial industry\" but rather attempted \"to squeeze as much abstract information\" as possible in their courses, according to Kayed.\n\nAnother economist (Muhammad Akram Khan) lamented that \"the real problem is that despite efforts for developing a separate discipline of Islamic economics, there is not much that can be genuinely called `economics`. Most of Islamic economics consists of theology on economic matters.\" \nAnother (M.N. Siddiqi) notes Islamic economics has been teaching \"conventional economics from an Islamic perspective\", rather than Islamic economics.\n\nDespite its start in 1976, as of 2009, 2013 Islamic economics was called still in its infancy, \nits \"curricula frames, course structures, reading materials, and research\", \"mostly\" anchored in the \"mainstream tradition\", \"lacking sufficiency, depth, coordination and direction,\" with teaching faculties in many cases ... found short of the needed knowledge, scholarship, and commitment.\" \"Distinct textbooks and teaching materials\" required have been found to \"neither exist\" nor be \"easy to create.\" Despite shortcomings in academic writing—most of the books are \"not cohesive\" and are \"at best no more than extended papers on specific topics\"—constructive evaluations are not common and response to what there is even less common. \nThe lack of an Islamic economics textbook \"looms large\" for Muslim economists and scholars. Despite the holding of a workshop in November 2010 to arrange the writing of such a textbook, the participation of \"a number of eminent Muslim economists\", (at the International Institute of Islamic Thought in London) and the appointment of \"a noted Muslim economist\" to coordinate the production of the textbook, as of 2015 \"no standard textbook of Islamic economics was available.\"\n\nIslamic economic institutes are not known for their intellectual freedom, and according to Muhammad Akram Khan are unlikely to allow criticism of the ideas or policies of their founding leaders or governments. The Centre for Research in Islamic Economics, an organ of the Jeddah University in Saudi Arabia, for example, \"cannot allow publication of any work that goes against the orthodox thinking of the influential\" Saudi religious leadership. Despite \"tall talk about ijtehad\", Islamic economists \"are shy\" about \"suggesting innovative ideas\" for fear of antagonizing religious clerics.\n\nUse of Islamic terminology not only for distinctive Islamic concepts such as \"riba, zakat, mudaraba\" but also for concepts that do not have specific Islamic connotation -- \"adl\" for justice, \"hukuma\" for government—locking out non-Muslim and even not Arabic speaking readers from the content of Islamic economics and even \"giving legitimacy\" to \"pendantry\" in the field.\n\nAccording to authors F. Nomani and A. Rahnema, the Qur'an states that God is the sole owner of all matter in the heavens and the earth, but man is God's viceregent on earth and holds God's possessions in trust (\"amanat\"). Islamic jurists divide properties into public, state, private categories.\n\nSome Muslims believe that the Shariah provides \"specific laws and standards regarding the use and allocation of resources including land, water, animals, minerals, and\nmanpower.\"\n\nAccording to M.A.Khan, \"Islam introduced the distinction between private property and public property and made the rulers accountable to the people\". \nScholars F. Nomani and A. Rahnema state that public property in Islam refers to natural resources (forests, pastures, uncultivated land, water, mines, oceanic resources etc.) to which all humans have equal right. Such resources are considered the common property of the community. Such property is placed under the guardianship and control of the Islamic state, and can be used by any citizen, as long as that use does not undermine the rights of other citizens, according to Nomani and Rahnema.\n\nThe owner of previously public property that is privatized pays \"zakat\" and, according to Shi'ite scholars, \"khums\" as well.\nIn general, the privatization and nationalization of public property is subject to debate amongst Islamic scholars.\n\nAccording to an analysis by Walid El-Malik in 1993, only the Maliki school took the position that all kinds of natural resources are state-owned; the Hanafi school took the opposite view and held that mineral ownership followed surface ownership, while the other two schools, Shafi'i and Hanbali, drew a distinction between \"hidden\" and \"unhidden\" minerals.\n\nState property includes certain natural resources, as well as other property that can't immediately be privatized. Islamic state property can be movable, or immovable, and can be acquired through conquest or peaceful means. Unclaimed, unoccupied and heir-less properties, including uncultivated land (\"mawat\"), can be considered state property.\n\nDuring the life of Muhammad, one fifth of military equipment captured from the enemy in the battlefield was considered state property. During his reign, Umar (on the recommendation of Ali) considered conquered land to be state rather than private property (as was usual practice). The purported reason for this was that privatizing this property would concentrate resources in the hands of a few, and prevent it from being used for the general good. The property remained under the occupation of the cultivators, but taxes were collected on it for the state treasury.\n\nMuhammad said \"Old and fallow lands are for God and His Messenger (i.e. state property), then they are for you\". Jurists draw from this the conclusion that, ultimately, private ownership takes over state property.\n\nThere is consensus amongst Islamic jurists and social scientists that Islam recognizes and upholds the individual's right to private ownership. The Qur'an extensively discusses taxation, inheritance, prohibition against stealing, legality of ownership, recommendation to give charity and other topics related to private property. Islam also guarantees the protection of private property by imposing stringent punishments on thieves. Muhammad said that he who dies defending his property was like a martyr.\n\nIslamic economists classify the acquisition of private property into involuntary, contractual and non-contractual categories. Involuntary means are inheritances, bequests, and gifts. Non-contractual acquisition involves the collection and exploitation of natural resources that have not previously been claimed as private property. Contractual acquisition includes activities such as trading, buying, renting, hiring labor etc.\n\nA tradition attributed to Muhammad, with which both Sunni and Shi'a jurists agree, in cases where the right to private ownership causes harm to others, then Islam favors curtailing the right in those cases. Maliki and Hanbali jurists argue that if private ownership endangers public interest, then the state can limit the amount an individual is allowed to own. This view, however, is debated by others.\n\nWhen Muhammad migrated to Madinah many of the Muslims owned agricultural land. Muhammad confirmed this ownership and allocated land to individuals. The land allotted would be used for housing, farming or gardening. For example, Bilal b. Harith was given land with mineral deposits at 'Aqiq Valley Hassan b. Thabit was afforded the garden of Bayruha and Zubayr received oasis land at Khaybar and Banu Nadir. During the reign of Caliph Umar, a vast expanse of Persian royal family terrain had been acquired, this lead his successor Caliph Uthman to accelerate the allotment of land to individuals in return for a portion of the crop yield.\n\nAccording to M.S.Naz, regulation of markets is among the main functions of \"hisbah\", the \"semi-judicial institution\" operational from the \"earliest days of Islam\". It was “charged with responsibility of carrying out the spirit of the system, setting conditions that preserve and enhance the public health and interests, protect the consumers, solve business and labor disputes, promote good market behavior, and ensure their observance.” M.A. Khan states, institution of \"Hisbah\" as established to \"supervise markets, to provide municipal services, and to settle petty disputes\". In the contemporary era, Pakistan has attempted to re-create this institution, although it has jurisdiction only over the administrative excesses of the federal government departments and agencies, not provincial ones or private companies.\n\nAccording to Nomani and Rahnema, Islam accepts markets as the basic coordinating mechanism of the economic system. Islamic teaching holds that the market, given perfect competition, allows consumers to obtain desired goods and producers to sell their goods at a mutually acceptable price.\n\nThree necessary conditions for an operational market are said (by Nomani and Rahnema) to be upheld in Islamic primary sources:\n\nAnother author (Nima Mersadi Tabari) claims that the general doctrine of fairness in sharia law creates \"an ethical economic model\" and forbids market manipulation such as \"inflating the price of commodities by creating artificial shortages (\"Ihtekar\"), overbidding for the sole purpose of driving the prices up (\"Najash\") and concealment of vital information in a transaction from the other party (\"Ghish\")\".\n\nFurther, \"uninformed speculation\" not based on a proper analysis of available information is forbidden because it is a form of \"Qimar\", or gambling, and results in accumulating \"Maysir\" (unearned income). Commercial contracting under conditions of \"excessive uncertainty\" (however that is defined) is a form of \"Gharar\" and so also forbidden.\n\nProponents such as M.A.Khan, Nomani and Rahnema also contend that the \"Islamic economy\" forbids or at least discourages market manipulation such as price fixing, hoarding and bribery. Government intervention in the economy is tolerated under specific circumstances.\n\nAnother author (Nima Mersadi Tabari) states that in Islam \"everything is \"Halal\" (allowed) unless it has been declared \"Haram\" (forbidden)\", consequently \"the Islamic economic model is based on the freedom of trade and freedom of contract so far as the limits of Shari’ah allow\".\n\nNomani and Rahnema say that Islam prohibits price fixing by a dominating handful of buyers or sellers. During the days of Muhammad, a small group of merchants met agricultural producers outside the city and bought the entire crop, thereby gaining a monopoly over the market. The produce was later sold at a higher price within the city. Muhammad condemned this practice since it caused injury both to the producers (who in the absence of numerous customers were forced to sell goods at a lower price) and the inhabitants.\n\nThe above-mentioned reports are also used to justify the argument that the Islamic market is characterized by free information. Producers and consumers should not be denied information on demand and supply conditions. Producers are expected to inform consumers of the quality and quantity of goods they claim to sell. Some scholars hold that if an inexperienced buyer is swayed by the seller, the consumer may nullify the transaction upon realizing the seller's unfair treatment. The Qur'an also forbids discriminatory transactions.\n\nBribery is also forbidden in Islam and can therefore not be used to secure a deal or gain favor in a transaction, it was narrated that Muhammad cursed the one who offers the bribe, the one who receives it, and the one who arranges it.\n\nNomani and Rahnema say government interference in the market is justified in exceptional circumstances, such as the protection of public interest. Under normal circumstances, governmental non-interference should be upheld. When Muhammad was asked to set the price of goods in a market he responded, \"I will not set such a precedent, let the people carry on with their activities and benefit mutually.\"\n\nIslamic banking has been called \"the most visible practical achievement\" of Islamic economics, and the \"most visible mark\" of Islamic revivalism. By 2009, there were over 300 \"shariah compliant banks and 250 mutual funds around the world, and around $2 trillion were sharia-compliant by 2014.\n\nHowever, the domination of the industry by debt-like instruments such as \"murabaha\" rather than risk-sharing products, has driven even some leading advocates and experts in Islamic banking (such as Muhammad Nejatullah Siddiqi) to talk about \"a crisis of identity of the Islamic financial movement.\"\n\nThe most noticeable and/or important objective of Islamic Banking has been a ban on the charging of interest on loans. The Quran (3: 130) condemns \"riba\" (which is usually translated as \"interest\"): \"O, you who believe! Devour not \"riba\", doubled and redoubled, and be careful of Allah; but fear Allah that you may be successful.\"\n\nThe only financial institution under Islamic Governance (Prophethood and Caliph Period) was Baitulmaal (public treasury) wherein the wealths were distributed instantly on the basis of need. During Prophethood the last receipt was tribute from Bahrain amounting eight hundred thousands dirham which was distributed in just one sitting. Though the first Caliph earmarked a house for Baitulmaal where all money was kept on receipt. As all money was distributed immediately the treasury generally remained locked up. At the time of his death there was only one dirham in the Baitulmaal. The second caliph besides developing the Central Baitulmaal also opened Baitulmaal at state and headquarters levels. He also carried census during his caliphate; and provisioned salaries to Government employees, stipend to poor and needy people along with social security to unemployed and retirement pensions.\n\nThe concept of a public financial institution played a historic role in the Islamic economy. The idea of state collected wealth being made available to the needy general public was relatively new. The resources in the Bayt-al-Mal were considered God's resources and a trust, money paid into the shared bank was common property of all the Muslims and the ruler was just the trustee.\n\nThe shared bank was treated as a financial institution and therefore subjected to the same prohibitions regarding interest. Caliph Umar spoke on the shared bank saying: \"I did not find the betterment of this wealth except in three ways: (i) it is received by right, (ii) it is given by right, and (iii) it is stopped from wrong. As regards my own position vis-a-vis this wealth of yours; it is like that of a guardian of an orphan. If I am well-off, I shall leave it, but if I am hard-pressed I shall take from it as is genuinely permissible.\"\n\nAn alternative Islamic savings-investment model can be built around venture capital; investment banks; restructured corporations; and restructured stock market. This model looks at removing the interest-based banking and in replacing market inefficiencies such as subsidization of loans over profit-sharing investments due to double taxation and restrictions on investment in private equity.\n\nIslamic banks have grown recently in the Muslim world, but are a very small share of the global economy compared to the Western debt banking paradigm. Hybrid approaches, which applies classical Islamic values but uses conventional lending practices, are much lauded by some proponents of modern human development theory.\n\nIslamic economics has been disparaged for\nIn a political and regional context where Islamist and ulema claim to have an opinion about everything, it is striking how little they have to say about this most central of human activities, beyond repetitious pieties about how their model is neither capitalist nor socialist.\n\nOne significant result of Islamic economics (and target of criticism) is the creation of Islamic banking and finance industry. According to several scholars it has bred a new \"Power Alliance\" of \"wealth and Shari'ah scholarship\",—wealthy banks and clients paying Islamic scholars to provide bank products with Islamic \"shariah compliance\". Journalist John Foster, quotes an investment banker based in the Islamic Banking hub of Dubai on the practice of \"fatwa shopping\",\n\n\"We create the same type of products that we do for the conventional markets. We then phone up a Sharia scholar for a Fatwa [seal of approval, confirming the product is Shari'ah compliant]. If he doesn't give it to us, we phone up another scholar, offer him a sum of money for his services and ask him for a Fatwa. We do this until we get Sharia compliance. Then we are free to distribute the product as Islamic.\"\n\nFoster explains that the fee for services provided by \"top\" scholars is \"often\" in six-figures, i.e. over US$100,000.\n\nOne critic (Muhammad O. Farooq) argues that this unfortunate situation has arisen because the \"preoccupation\" among supporters of Islamic Economics that any and all interest on loans is \"riba\" and forbidden by Islam, and because risk-sharing alternatives to interest bearing loans originally envisioned for Islamic banking have not proven feasible. With the elimination of interest being both the basis of the industry and impractical, shari'a scholars have become \"entrapped in a situation\" where they are forced to approve transactions fundamentally similar to conventional loans but using \"hiyal\" manipulation to \"maintain an Islamic veneer\".\n\nInstead of \"fixating\" on interest, Farooq urges a focus on \"the larger picture\" of \"justice\", and in economics on fighting exploitation from \"greed and profit,\" and the concentration of wealth. He quotes an ayat in support: \"What God has bestowed on his Messenger (and taken away) from the people of the townships, - belongs to God, - to his Messenger and to kindred and orphans, the needy and the wayfarer; \"in order that it may not (merely) make a circuit between the wealthy among you.\" ...\" As an example of the neglect of this issue, Farooq complains that one \"rather comprehensive\" bibliography of Islamic economics and finance, contains \"not a single citation for exploitation or injustice\" among its 700 entries.\n\nA former director of Pakistan Institute of Development Economics and the head of Pakistan's Economic Affairs Division, Syed Nawab Haider Naqvi, also called for \"comprehensive Islamic reform to establish an exploitation-free economic system\" and not just \"mechanical substitution of profit for interest.\"\n\nOn the issue of \"zakat\", one of the pillars of Islam, M.A.Khan also criticizes the conservatism of Islamic Economics, complaining that \"the insistence of Muslim scholars in implementing it in the same form in which it was in vogue in the days of the Prophet and the first four caliphs ... has made it irrelevant to the needs of a contemporary society.\"\n\nA supporter of Islamic economics (Asad Zaman) describes a \"major difficulty\" faced by Islamic reformers of Islamic economics and pointed out by other authors, namely that because a financial system is an \"integrated and coherent structure\", to create an Islamic system \"based on trust, community and no interest\" requires \"changes and interventions on several different fronts simultaneously\".\n\n\nPeople\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49086389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49086389", "title": "Israeli labor law", "text": "Israeli labor law\n\nIsraeli labor law provides a number of protections to workers in Israel. They are governed by the Basic Laws, the Hours of Work and Rest Law, as well as various other laws, statutes, and regulations.\n\nLabor unions are legal in Israel, and about one-third of the workforce is unionized. The Histadrut, a large federation of trade unions, has a prominent place in Israel's economy and society. Workers in most industries have a right to strike provided a fifteen-day notice of intention to strike is given. It is illegal to fire a worker for unionizing and participating in union activities, including strikes. However, the right to strike is restricted in the civil service and in institutions considered vital such as medicine, water, energy, and the police force. Israeli labor courts are tasked with settling labor disputes. There are five regional labor courts which handle local disputes, and the National Labor Court in Jerusalem, which handles nationwide strikes, collective disputes, and appeals of decisions of the regional courts.\n\nWage bargaining in Israel has changed from a very centralized corporatist system that collectively represented almost all workers, to a decentralized, pluralist, system with many wage agreements in different sectors of labor. Until the 1990s, bargaining was negotiated between the Private Employers' Association representing businesses and the Histadrut representing the labor force. The state's role in these negotiations was unofficial and its main purpose was to promulgate the new agreements to the people. Negotiations over wages were conducted at the statewide level, determining standard pay across whole sectors of industry. Due to a decrease in both union and employer association memberships, it has been harder to collectivize workers across labor sectors. This decentralization is also attributed to the rise of unions outside the traditional Histadrut, or General Federation of Trade Unions, which had previously not been allowed under the laws of the more corporatist system.\n\nIsrael's history, and its changes from corporatist to pluralist exhibit its position as a unique type of economy. Coordination between the government, labor, and employers in regard to how wages are set show its distinction from liberal economies like the United States. The massive influence of the Histadrut in the mid to late 20th century shows a very centralized government who allowed high levels of corporatism with the state's largest labor union in administering public health care and public pension funds. With the state-owned military equipment industry replacing more traditional job sectors like agriculture in the 1980s, Israel progressed into a more industrial economy. It is only in the past few decades, as large-scale industrial work has seen a decline, and service sector jobs have increased, that the Histadrut has lost power. In the 1990s former soviet scientists came to Israel and helped the country further its diversity of exports in order to become a more competitive country in the world economy.\n\nIn the 21st century, Israel has shown itself to have great potential from its younger generation as it achieved the 2nd highest rate of 25-64 year olds who had achieved tertiary education. This new younger generation may prove to change Israel's labor system and further bring it into a more service-sector oriented world.\n\nIsraeli law sets out a 43-hour workweek. This is being reduced to 42 hours as of April 1, 2018. For those with a five-day workweek, the length of a work day is set out as 8.6 hours, while those with a six-day workweek have a work day of 8 hours, with a half-day of work on Friday. Those with a work day of at least six hours are entitled to 45 minutes of rest, including an uninterrupted 30-minute break, although with a special permit those working in non-manual jobs can have full workdays without breaks. However, in practice, additional time is added to make up for these breaks, leading to a maximum 45-hour workweek. As a result, many employees in Israel work 45 hours a week, or 9 hours a day for 5 days. Any work beyond these hours is considered overtime. Overtime work is illegal unless a permit is obtained from the Ministry of Labor, and is subject to certain conditions. The first two hours of overtime must be compensated by a 125% wage raise, and any overtime work beyond that must be accompanied by a 150% raise. No more than four hours of overtime work can be performed in a single day. Those with a six-day workweek cannot work more than 12 hours of overtime per week, while those with a five-day workweek cannot work more than 15 hours of overtime per week. Those who work during a religious holiday are entitled to a 150% raise and an alternative day off. Employers are prohibited by law from compelling their employees to work more than 47 hours per week.\n\nDiscrimination over race, religion, age, sexual preference, or disability is banned. It is also illegal to fire a pregnant employee unless the employer can satisfy the Ministry of Labor that the reasons for termination are unrelated to the pregnancy. Employers other than government security bodies and those providing services to children or the mentally or physically disabled are prohibited by law from conducting criminal background checks of job candidates.\n\nAll Israeli workers are entitled to a weekly consecutive rest period of at least 36 hours, although with a special permit from the Ministry of Labor, it can be reduced to a minimum of 25 hours. Israelis typically follow a Sunday-Thursday five-day workweek, although some, with a six-day workweek, work until midday on Friday. This is done to accommodate the Jewish Sabbath and Muslim Jumu'ah.\n\nAll Israeli employees with a five-day workweek are entitled to a minimum of 12 paid vacation days for the first four years of employment, while those with a six-day workweek are entitled to 14 days. This gradually increases after four years to a maximum of 28 days. There are also 9 paid public holidays, including a continuous two-day one.\n\nWorkers are also entitled to 18 days of paid sick leave per year, and a female employee who has worked for the same employer for one year is entitled to 26 weeks of maternity leave, although she can divide it with the father, and those on parental leave are entitled to an allowance from the government for the first 14 days. It is illegal to fire someone on maternity leave or within 60 days after its conclusion.\n\nThere are high levels of immigrants in Israel's workforce, with most being authorized immigrants and a smaller percentage being unauthorized. By 1999, when immigrants made up 16% of the full-time labor force, they made up an even higher 27% of part-time labor. More recently in 2001, of the total 2,500,000 workers in the labor force, about 200,000 are immigrants. These migrant workers usually take low-paying jobs in the private sector, where they can be exploited without adequate protection from labor laws The inclusion of migrant workers in the labor force limit the bargaining power of Israeli workers for higher wages, as they tend to take low-paying part-time jobs which are outside collective bargaining agreements. In 2000, 80.2% of male migrant workers were paid less than minimum wage. In 1991, the Israeli Parliament, the Knesset, passed the Foreign Workers’ Law (Unlawful Employment and the Guarantee of Decent Conditions) to protect immigrants from being subject to the market economy without any labor protections. Under the law, employers are required to pay into a fund that provides social benefits for migrant workers. Additionally, in an attempt to protect the wages of all migrant workers, the law advocates for employers to set up collective agreements with their workers, similar to how Israel's large private sector has been coordinated.\n"}
{"id": "505638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505638", "title": "Jus ad bellum", "text": "Jus ad bellum\n\n\"\" is sometimes considered a part of the laws of war, but the term \"laws of war\" can also be considered to refer to \"jus in bello\", which concerns whether a war is conducted justly (regardless of whether the initiation of hostilities was just). \"Jus ad bellum\" refers to \"legitimate reasons a State may engage in war.\" These rules focus on certain criteria for what makes a war just.\n\nArticle 51 of the UN Charter clarifies: \"Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defense if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the United Nations.\"\n\nAn international agreement limiting the justifiable reasons for a country to declare war against another is concerned with \"jus ad bellum.\" In addition to bilateral non-aggression pacts, the twentieth century saw multilateral treaties defining entirely new restrictions against going to war. The three most notable examples are the Kellogg-Briand Pact outlawing war as an instrument of national policy, the London Charter (known also as the Nuremberg Charter) defining \"crimes against peace\" as one of three major categories of international crime to be prosecuted after World War II, and the United Nations Charter, which binds nations to seek resolution of disputes by peaceful means and requires authorization by the United Nations before a nation may initiate any use of force against another, beyond the inherent right of self-defense against an armed attack.\n\nBy contrast, agreements defining limits on acceptable conduct while already engaged in war are considered \"rules of war\" and are referred to as the \"jus in bello.\" Thus, the Geneva Conventions are a set of \"\"jus in bello\".\" Doctrines concerning the protection of civilians in wartime, or the need for \"proportionality\" when force is used, are addressed to issues of conduct within a war, but the same doctrines can also shed light on the question of when it is lawful (or unlawful) to go to war in the first place.\n\nThe principle of right authority suggests that a war is just only if waged by a legitimate authority. Such authority is rooted in the notion of state sovereignty. In his Summa Theologica St. Thomas Aquinas notes that to be a just war, war has not only to be declared publicly, but also must be declared by the proper authority.\n\nProper authority is what differentiates war from murder: \"It is the rules of warfare that give the practice meaning, that distinguish war from murder and soldiers from criminals\". A soldier is treated as a prisoner of war (POW) and not a criminal because they are operating under the proper authority of the state and cannot be held individually responsible for actions committed under the orders of their military leadership.\n\nAccording to the principle of right intention, the aim of war must not be to pursue narrowly defined national interests, but rather to re-establish a just peace. This state of peace should be preferable to the conditions that would have prevailed had the war not occurred. Wars cannot be fought simply to annex property or install a regime change. Current doctrines of \"anticipatory self-defense\" or preemptive strikes, commonly called the Bush Doctrine, have challenged concepts of right intention/just cause. Right cause includes humanitarian intervention, particularly when actions \"shock the conscience\". The responsibility to protect covers more in depth the nature of humanitarian intervention.\n\nAccording to this principle, there must be good grounds for concluding that aims of the just war are achievable. This principle emphasizes that mass violence must not be undertaken if it is unlikely to secure the just cause. This criterion is to avoid invasion for invasion's sake and links to the proportionality criteria. One cannot invade if there is no chance of actually winning. However, wars are fought with imperfect knowledge, so one must simply be able to make a logical case that one can win; there is no way to know this in advance. These criteria move the conversation from moral and theoretical grounds to practical grounds. Essentially, this is meant to gather coalition building and win approval of other state actors.\n\nThe principle of proportionality stipulates that the violence used in the war must be proportional to the military objectives. This objective is meant to preclude \"scorched earth\" policies. The level of military victory must be proportional to the level of destruction that ensues. For example, if there is one enemy combatant in a shopping plaza full of 400 civilians, it would not be considered proportional to the blow up the plaza. However, if there is a high value military target in an area with far fewer civilians (a car or a private home) an attack and the collateral damage may be considered justifiable under the rule of proportionality.\n\nThe principle of last resort stipulates that all non-violent options must first be exhausted before the use of force can be justified. Diplomatic options, sanctions, and other non-military methods must be attempted or validly ruled out before the engagement of hostilities. Further, in regard to the amount of harm—proportionally—the principle of last resort would support using small intervention forces first and then escalating rather than starting a war with massive force such as carpet bombing or nuclear attacks.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas is one of the earliest philosophers on what makes a just war. His list of criteria were intended to protect civilians and guarantee that wars were not just fought for the interest of private parties.\n\nAfter the Peace of Westphalia, which ended the Thirty Years' War, scholars became concerned with finding a way to control interstate war while respecting State sovereignty. It wasn’t until the formation of the United Nations after World War II that notions of jus ad bellum were formalized.\n\nSince the 1950s, declarations of jus ad bellum have dropped dramatically. In \"Why States No Longer Declare War\" Tanisha Fazal notes the drop in formal declarations of war since the 1950. This may be as a result of the nuance of war in modern times, given the rise of non-state actors such as terrorist groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12870646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12870646", "title": "Legal culture", "text": "Legal culture\n\nLegal cultures are described as being temporary outcomes of interactions and occur pursuant to a challenge and response paradigm. Analyses of core legal paradigms shape the characteristics of individual and distinctive legal cultures.\n“Comparative legal cultures are examined by a field of scholarship, which is situated at the line bordering comparative law and historical jurisprudence.” \n\nLegal cultures can be examined by reference to fundamentally different legal systems. However, such cultures can also be differentiated between systems with a shared history and basis which are now otherwise influenced by factors that encourage cultural change. Students learn about legal culture in order to better understand how the law works in society. This can be seen as the study of Law and Society. These studies are available at schools such as Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa.\n\nWestern legal culture is unified in the systematic reliance on legal constructs. Such constructs include corporations, contracts, estates, rights and powers. These concepts are not only nonexistent in primitive or traditional legal systems but they can also be predominately incapable of expression in those language systems which form the basis of such legal cultures.\n\nAs a general proposition, the concept of legal culture depends on language and symbols and any attempt to analyze non-western legal systems in terms of categories of modern western law can result in distortion attributable to differences in language. So while legal constructs are unique to classical Roman, modern civil and common law cultures, legal concepts or primitive and archaic law get their meaning from sensed experience based on facts as opposed to theory or abstract. Legal culture therefore in the former group is influenced by academics, learned members of the profession and historically, philosophers. The latter group’s culture is harnessed by beliefs, values and religion at a foundational level.\n\nTraditional law in Africa is based on natural justice and lacks abstract concepts. This is characteristic of cultures that have an absence of written language which is necessary to elaborate concepts into theory. The doctrines of traditional African law are based on social considerations whereby parties to disputes seek not declarations of right or wrong but rather they seek restitution of social relationships.\n\nThe trier of fact and law adjudicates between closely related people from communities as opposed to strangers in commerce. Judgments stress the importance of living together in generous, loving kindness, mutual helpfulness and reciprocity. Evidence suggests that ‘African law demonstrates that all men, because they live in society, have some theory of rules of justice which they believe arise from reason itself; [and Gluckman’s evidence] suggests that Africans may well have formulated, in embryonic form at least, a theory of natural justice coming from human kindness itself.’ \n\nThe Islamic legal system exemplifies law as part of a larger culture where the concepts of knowledge, right and human nature play a central role. A case study by Lawrence Rosen explains the anthropological, procedural and judicial discretion aspects of bringing a case to court in Sefrou, Morocco. The case study makes explicit those fundamentals in Islamic society that shape Islamic legal culture and differentiate this from western legal cultures.\n\nRigid procedural rules and strict court room decorum or etiquette which is entrenched in western legal cultures clears the way for a more natural process of dispute resolution. In Morocco, close attention is paid to social origins, connections and identity where these concepts influence a qadi’s (judge) judicial interrogation and discretion.\n\nWhile the systems of law found in the western world consist of conceptualisation and implementation that mimic the extrajudicial world only slightly, in the Islamic courts of Morocco, the culture of law being propounded reflects the overall culture of its people. This is attributable to the goals of law in Islamic society, which is not to hold state or religious power as supreme or to develop an exacting body of legal doctrine, but to restore relationships and then facilitate the resolution of disputes independently of rigid precedent.\n\nThe traditional focus between common law culture and civil law culture has been highlighted by court room procedure, whereby the former nurtures an adversarial environment and the latter an inquisitorial one. Indeed no system of court procedure can ever be purely adversarial or purely inquisitorial.\n\nIn fact France, which subscribes to a civil legal system, historically gave the judge a passive role and left the parties to engage in an accusatorial manner. Nonetheless the common law culture predominately consists of oral arguments where legal representors steer the case in search of justice and reinforcement of rights.\n\nThe use of a Jury in the common law as a judge of fact is unique when compared to civil law systems. The Jury are triers of fact in both civil and criminal cases and this reflects a particular culture of law; namely the direct involvement of society in the legal framework. In France a judge’s role as trier of law and fact is merely as an administrator without creating binding legal principle. Hence the civil law culture is more rational, orderly, authoritative and paternalistic.\n\nCommon law has a culture of judicial inventiveness and even flexibility. Enunciation of principle is not forever paramount but indeed a continuing flow of cases and statutes add to the ebb and flow of the law, whereby ‘case law represented the modern man’s realisation of his own limitations.’ Further differences include where a civilian lawyer speaks in terms of the law of nature while the common lawyer speaks to reason. It follows that the culture of these legal systems has been moulded by perceptions of justice and the means available to attain it.\n\nLegal culture can differ between countries despite their conformity to a similar if not identical legal system. Both the United States and England possess common law systems of law and yet each country embodies a distinctive legal culture. This has been attributable by contrasting both the institutions within the legal system and characteristics of the profession (judges, barristers and solicitors).\n\nAccording to Posner during 1996 there was about 15 times more American judges than English judges but only about 10 times more American lawyers than English lawyers. Posner suggests that English judges have more prestige than American judges and a related point is that the ratio of judges to lawyers is lower in England than the United States. The consequence of this is that the English common law system, as opposed to the American legal system, displays a legal culture of greater prestige and elitism not only in the judiciary but also those who are candidates for the judiciary.\n\nIn England, and other Commonwealth jurisdictions, barristers are apt candidates for judicial nomination. The reasons for this stem from the common law systems which have a culture to encourage, harness and capture high quality intellect and experience within a concentrated portion of non-judicial officers of the legal profession known as barristers (which includes and accounts for their subsequent appointments to higher ranking queens counsel and senior counsel).\n\nBarristers are engaged upon a solicitor's brief instead of direct engagement with the client. This insulation avoids lay persons being taken advantage of by unscrupulous lawyers which is evidently \"a big problem in the United States, where incompetent lawyers, and known to be such both by judges and by other lawyers, often wow naïve clients.\" \n\nThe cost of pursuing litigation influences the culture of each legal system in terms of what society perceives as the net benefit gained from the court and the profession. To litigate similar cases in England and the United States would cost approximately the same; however English courts are not as generous as their American counterparts in awarding damages, especially punitive damages. Therefore the net expected benefit of litigation being greater in the United States encourages a legal culture that is more litigious in nature than England.\n\nNational character is inherent in the legal institutions of the courts and parliament, their formation and their output in terms of legislation or judgments. For example it has been said that many factors have contributed to the litigiousness of the United States, including: the rights afforded to the people, a written constitution, immigrant origins of its population, racial and ethnic heterogeneity and the wealth and spoils of its population. To this end national character and history influence current legal culture.\n\nThe legal culture of China, as well as its social and economic culture, continues to undergo dramatic change since the People’s Republic of China's reforms of 1978. Transformation has occurred by legal modernisation whereby a rule of law has been suggested to replace the rule of man. The latter is a characteristic of the traditional rural Chinese society where unwritten rules, personal relationships and trust govern citizens' legal relationships; analogous to gemeinschaft. In the modern society of China, institutional, customary and legal reform (a rule of law that embodies universal rules uniformly enforced by a centralised and bureaucratic state) is necessary to govern legal relations; analogous to gesellschaft.\n\nDirect transplants of western legal systems or culture may not provide an adequate rule of law where the life of ordinary Chinese may be marginalised in favour of legal elite who use legal instruments for self-promotion. Furthermore, implanting western legal norms disregards the local culture and relations; thus potentially destroying significant cultural bonds and relationships in the rural community. The traditional rural Chinese legal culture which is premised on personal and informal relations faces erosion unless legal pluralism is promoted.\n\nA top down approach in analysing the legal culture of China suggests that both under Deng Xiaoping and Jiang Zemin, China is \"a country under rule by law, not rule of law.\" Evidence comes from post Mao-China, where law is seen as necessary for institutionalising and generalising ad hoc policies for economic reform and as maintaining party leadership.\n\nFurther problems with the Chinese legal culture include a piecemeal approach to law making with an imbalance between law and policy; denials of private law; neglect towards human rights and individual liberties; and poor enforcement of laws. According to Chen, the consensus in China among scholars is that the lack of democracy and rule of law are interdependent concepts whereby \"the rule of law is legitimate only if it is the product of democratic government.\" \n\nWhat is evident with the China experience is that legal culture is susceptible to change in pursuance to socio-economic and political forces. While such a change could be beneficial for portions of the society and international relations, traditional and established cultural methods face extinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23771843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23771843", "title": "Love contract", "text": "Love contract\n\nA love contract is a legal contract that is meant to limit the liability of an employer whose employees are romantically involved. An employer may choose to require a love contract when a romantic relationship within the company becomes known, in order to indemnify the company in case the employees' romantic relationship fails, primarily so that one party can't bring a sexual harassment lawsuit against the company. To that end, the love contract states that the relationship is consensual, and both parties of the relationship must sign it. The love contract may also stipulate rules for acceptable romantic behavior in the workplace.\n"}
{"id": "892519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892519", "title": "Nkomati Accord", "text": "Nkomati Accord\n\nThe Nkomati Accord (Official name; \"Agreement on Non-Aggression and Good Neighbourliness between Mozambique and South Africa\" ) was a non-aggression pact signed on 16 March 1984 between the People's Republic of Mozambique and the Republic of South Africa. The event took place at the South African town of Komatipoort with the signatories being President of Mozambique Samora Machel and Prime Minister of South Africa P.W. Botha. Despite repeated pleas from Machel for leaders of other SADCC nations to attend, the complete absence of any such heads of state demonstrated the derision the accord was viewed with from these nations. The treaty's stated focus was on preventing Mozambique from supporting the African National Congress on the one hand, and South Africa from supplying the RENAMO on the other.\n\nMachel did not expel ANC members that had taken refuge in Mozambique and the South African government continued to funnel arms and other supplies to RENAMO. A permanent peace accord, the Rome General Peace Accords, finally ended the Mozambican Civil War in 1992 and was supervised by the United Nations' ONUMOZ force until 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4195772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4195772", "title": "Ordinance of Labourers 1349", "text": "Ordinance of Labourers 1349\n\nThe Ordinance of Labourers 1349 is often considered to be the start of English labour law. Specifically, it fixed wages and imposed price controls; required all those under the age of 60 to work; prohibited the enticing away of another's servants; and other terms.\n\nThe ordinance was issued in response to the 1348−1350 outbreak of the Black Death in England. During this outbreak, an estimated 30−40% of the population died. The decline in population left surviving workers in great demand in the agricultural economy of Britain.\n\nLandowners had to face the choice of raising wages to compete for workers or letting their lands go unused. Wages for labourers rose and translated into inflation across the economy as goods became more expensive to produce. The wealthy elites suffered under the sudden economic shift. Difficulties in hiring labour created frustration. John Gower commented on post-plague labourers: \"they are sluggish, they are scarce, and they are grasping. For the very little they do they demand the highest pay.\" On the other hand, while some workers suffered from increasing prices, others benefited from the higher wages they could command during this period of labour shortage.\n\nThe law was issued by King Edward III of England on 18 June 1349.\n\nThe ordinance required several things including:\n\n\nThe ordinance has largely been seen as ineffective. Despite the English parliament's attempt to reinforce the ordinance with the Statute of Labourers of 1351, workers continued to command higher wages and the majority of England (those in the labouring class) enjoyed a century of relative prosperity before the ratio of labour to land restored the pre-plague levels of wages and prices. While the economic situation eventually reverted, the plague radically altered the social structure of English society.\n\nIt was later repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 and the Statute Law (Ireland) Revision Act 1872.\n\n"}
{"id": "6337653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337653", "title": "Out-of-pocket expense", "text": "Out-of-pocket expense\n\nAn out-of-pocket expense (or out-of-pocket cost) is the direct payment of money that may or may not be later reimbursed from a third-party source.\n\nFor example, when operating a vehicle, gasoline, parking fees and tolls are considered out-of-pocket expenses for a trip. Car insurance, oil changes, and interest are not, since the outlay of cash covers expenses accrued over a longer period of time. The services rendered and other in-kind expenses are not considered out-of-pocket expenses; the same goes for depreciation of capital goods or depletion.\n\nOrganizations often reimburse out-of-pocket expenses incurred on their behalf, especially expenses incurred by employees on their employers' behalf. In the United States, out-of-pocket expenses for such things as charity, medical bills, and education may be deductions on US income taxes, according to IRS regulations.\n\nTo be out of pocket is to have expended personal resources, often unexpectedly or unfairly, at the end of some enterprise.\n\nIn the health care financing sector, this represents the share of the expenses that the insured party must pay directly to the health care provider, without a third-party (insurer, or government).\n\nUnited States\n\nOut-of-pocket costs are high especially when it comes to prescription drugs in the United States. Before investing in a health care plan, it is very useful to examine the out-of-pocket prescription costs as they may be very low or very high. High out-of-pocket costs may correlate with lower prescription adherence and more importation of medications from foreign countries. Medicare Part D is a federal program aimed at lowering prescription drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries. However, after the first year of Medicare Part D, out-of-pocket drug costs were down, but there was not a noticeable reduction in emergency department visits, hospitalization, or health utility score. Perhaps, some diseases will be more sensitive to Medicare Part D.\n\nAustralia\n\nA recent study published from Australia shows that the out-of-pocket cost burden falls most heavily on patients who are least able to bear it, both in terms of their health and in terms of their income. Among the respondents 14% experienced a heavy financial burden. Medication and medical service expenses were the major costs. This study concluded that despite Australia's universal health coverage (medicare) a substantial portion of senior citizens suffer from excessive out-of-pocket expenditure, and this burden increases with increasing number of chronic conditions. Among the specific conditions, those who experienced cancer, high blood pressure, diabetes or depression were likely to report higher out-of-pocket expenditure.\n\nSome ways to improve physician knowledge of drug costs were thought to be increased physician-patient communication or higher use of information technology. Physicians with high rates of IT use did not have significantly higher knowledge or drug costs. Health IT design should be improved to make it easier for physicians to access cost information at the point of care.\n\n"}
{"id": "629621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629621", "title": "Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law", "text": "Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law\n\nThe Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law of 16 April 1856 was a diplomatic policy agreed to by 55 nations. Written by France and Great Britain. its primary goal was to abolish privateering, whereby a belligerent party gave formal permission for armed privately owned ships to seize enemy vessels. It also regulated the relationship between neutral and belligerent and shipping on the high seas introducing new prize rules. They agreed on three major points: free ships make free goods, effective blockade, and no privateering. In return for surrendering the practice of seizing neutral goods on enemy ships, France insisted on Britain's abandoning its Rule of 1756 prohibiting neutral assumption of enemy coastal and colonial trade. \n\nOn the conclusion of the Treaty of Paris, which was signed on 30 March 1856, putting an end to the Crimean War (1853–1856), the plenipotentiaries also signed this declaration at the suggestion of Count Walewski, the French plenipotentiary. The declaration is the outcome of a \"modus vivendi\" signed between France and Britain in 1854, originally intended for the Crimean War. These two powers had agreed that they would not seize enemy goods on neutral vessels nor neutral goods on enemy vessels. The belligerents had also agreed that they would not issue letters of marque, which they had not done during the war. At the close of this war the principal states of Europe concluded that private armed ships, maintained at private cost for private gain, and often necessarily for a long time beyond the reach of the regular naval force of the state, could not be kept under proper control. The Declaration of Paris confirmed these rules and added to them the principle that blockades, in order to be obligatory, must be effective.\n\nThe Declaration did not as such make privateers into a new category of international criminals, but rather made it a treaty obligation of states that they refrain from commissioning privateers in the first place. Most states normally treated foreign privateers as pirates in any case.\n\nUltimately, 55 states ratified the Declaration, including Britain, Austria, France, Prussia, Russia, Sardinia, and the Ottoman Empire. This treaty established maritime law among the major powers of Europe. It represented the first multilateral attempt to codify in times of peace rules which were to be applicable in the event of war. This declaration bound only its signatories when at war with each other, and left them free to use privateers when at war with other states.\n\nThe United States, which aimed at a complete exemption of non-contraband private property from capture at sea, withheld its formal adherence in 1857 when its “Marcy” amendment was not accepted by all powers, chiefly as a result of British influence. The US was also keen on maintaining privateers. It argued that, not possessing a great navy, it would be obliged in time of war to rely largely upon merchant ships commissioned as war vessels, and that therefore the abolition of privateering would be entirely in favour of European powers, whose large navies rendered them practically independent of such aid. All other maritime states acceded to the declaration except Venezuela and Bolivia.\n\nIn 1861, during the American Civil War, the United States declared that it would respect the principles of the declaration during hostilities. The same was done during the Spanish–American War of 1898, when the United States Government affirmed its policy of conducting hostilities in conformity with the dispositions of the declaration. Spain too, though not a party, declared its intention to abide by the declaration, but it expressly gave notice that it reserved its right to issue letters of marque. At the same time both belligerents organized services of auxiliary cruisers composed of merchant ships under the command of naval officers.\n\nSome of the questions raised by this declaration were clarified by the 1907 Hague Convention.\n\nThe rules contained in this declaration later came to be considered as part of the general principles of international law and the United States too, though not formally a party, abides by provisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20522048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20522048", "title": "Scots civil procedure", "text": "Scots civil procedure\n\nScots civil procedure governs the rules of civil procedure in Scotland. It deals with the jurisdiction of the country's civil courts, namely the Court of Session and sheriff courts.\n\nCivil procedure is regulated by Acts of Sederunt which are ordinances passed by the Court of Session. Rules for the functioning of the Court of Session were decided upon by the Court of Session Rules Council, which was instituted by the Administration of Justice (Scotland) Act 1933 and reconfirmed by the Court of Session Act 1988 and those for the Sheriff Court were agreed on by the Sheriff Court Rules Council, which is the body responsible for reviewing the Sheriff Court civil procedure under review. Primary legislation may also be enacted to regulate civil procedure, such as the Civil Evidence (Scotland) Act 1988 which removed requirements for corroborating evidence. However, rules for both the Court of Session and sheriff courts are now decided upon by the Scottish Civil Justice Council.\n\nSince the enactment of the Human Rights Act 1998, civil procedure has increasingly been shaped by case law from the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn 2009 Lord Gill, the Lord Justice Clerk, delivered his \"Scottish Civil Courts Review\" which was heralded as the \"most far-reaching reform of Scotland's civil justice system in nearly two centuries\".\n\nAmong his 206 proposals were:\n\nIn November 2010 the Scottish Government released its response to the \"Review\" accepting \"the majority of Lord Gill's recommendations\" including expressly the following proposals:\n\nIn October 2011, the Scottish Government announced consultation on appointments to a new Scottish Civil Justice Council to draft rules of procedure for civil proceedings in the Court of Session and sheriff court. The establishment of the Council was one of Lord Gill's 2009 recommendations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1460640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1460640", "title": "Secular state", "text": "Secular state\n\nA secular state is an idea pertaining to secularity, whereby a state is or purports to be officially neutral in matters of religion, supporting neither religion nor irreligion. A secular state also claims to treat all its citizens equally regardless of religion, and claims to avoid preferential treatment for a citizen from a particular religion/nonreligion over other religions/nonreligion. Secular states do not have a state religion (e.g. an established religion) or an equivalent, although the absence of an established state religion does not necessarily mean that a state is fully secular in all respects. For example, many secular states have religious references in their national anthems and flags.\n\nSecular states become secular either upon creation of the state (e.g. the United States of America), or upon secularization of the state (e.g. France or Nepal). Movements for \"laïcité\" in France and for the separation of church and state in the United States defined modern concepts of secularism. Historically, the process of secularizing states typically involves granting religious freedom, disestablishing state religions, stopping public funds being used for a religion, freeing the legal system from religious control, freeing up the education system, tolerating citizens who change religion or abstain from religion, and allowing political leadership to come to power regardless of their religious beliefs.\n\nIn France, Italy and Spain for example, official holidays for the public administration tend to be Christian feast days. Some have pagan roots dating from before Christianisation: All Saints' Day is pagan Halloween and Easter is named after the pagan goddess Eostre. Also any private school in France that contracts with Education Nationale gets the teachers salaried by the state, so most of Catholic school are in this case and they are the majority because of history but it's not an exclusive pass right and other religion or non religion school can contract this way. In some European states where secularism confronts monoculturalist philanthropy, some of the main Christian sects and sects of other religions depend on the state for some of the financial resources for their religious charities. It is common in corporate law and charity law to prohibit organized religion from using those funds to organize religious worship in a separate place of worship or for conversion; the religious body itself must provide the religious content, educated clergy and laypersons to exercise its own functions and may choose to devote part of their time to the separate charities. To that effect some of those charities establish secular organizations that manage part of or all of the donations from the main religion(s).\n\nReligious and non-religious organizations can apply for equivalent funding from the government and receive subsidies based on either assessed social results where there is indirect religious state funding, or simply the number of beneficiaries of those organisations. This resembles charitable choice in the United States. It is doubtful whether overt direct state funding of religions is in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. Apparently this issue has not yet been decided at supranational level in ECtHR case law stemming from the rights in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which mandates non-discrimination in affording its co-listed basic social rights. Specifically, funding certain services would not accord with non-discriminatory state action.\n\nMany states that are nowadays secular in practice may have legal vestiges of an earlier established religion. Secularism also has various guises which may coincide with some degree of official religiosity. In the United Kingdom, the head of state is still required to take the Coronation Oath enacted in 1688, swearing to maintain the Protestant Reformed religion and to preserve the established Church of England. The UK also maintains seats in the House of Lords for 26 senior clergymen of the Church of England, known as the Lords Spiritual. Italy is a secular state since 1985 but still recognize a special status to the Catholic Church. The reverse progression can also occur, however; a state can go from a secular state to a religious state, as in the case of Iran where the secularized state of the Pahlavi dynasty was replaced by an Islamic Republic (list below). Nonetheless, the last 250 years has seen a trend towards secularism.\n\n\n Transcontinental country.\n States with limited recognition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41241741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41241741", "title": "Supplementary process", "text": "Supplementary process\n\nSupplementary process is a method of debt collection where the debtor who has a court money judgement against him is brought into court, \"requiring the judgment debtor to appear at a time and place named therein and submit to an examination relative to his or its property and ability to pay.\" The process is common in Massachusetts under M.G.L. Ch. 224, s. 14. If the debtor does not appear in court, a Capias ad respondendum may issue where a sheriff brings the debtor into court to respond.\n"}
{"id": "27813815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27813815", "title": "Supply reduction", "text": "Supply reduction\n\nSupply reduction is one approach to social problems such as drug addiction. Other approaches are demand reduction and harm reduction.\n\nIn the case of illegal drugs, supply reduction efforts generally involves attempts to disrupt the manufacturing and distribution supply chains for these drugs, by both civilian law enforcement and sometimes military forces. This approach, sometimes characterized as the \"War on Drugs\", has been the dominant approach to drugs policy since the 1960s.\n\nThere is little or no evidence showing that supply reduction methods can be successful as a means to reduce the supply of illicit drugs. For example, the retail price of cocaine in the US in 2007 was less than half the price in 1984, despite massive investments by the US government in supply reduction strategies. Some analysts have argued that the abject failure of supply reduction in the US actually contributed to a significant and lasting reduction in crime and violence beginning in the 1990s, when cocaine prices hit record lows. \n\nIn contrast, a systematic review documents moderate and growing evidence that retail greater availability is associated with greater relapse to smoked tobacco.\n\n"}
{"id": "41023782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41023782", "title": "Susan Nycum", "text": "Susan Nycum\n\nSusan H. Nycum is a lawyer who specialises in computer security and intellectual property issues. She worked at the law firm of Chickering and Gregory in San Francisco and then became a partner at the law firm Baker & McKenzie where she headed its IT and intellectual property group. She was a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery and a member of its council. She was an early member of its special interest group for higher education, SIGUCCS, and was inducted into its hall of fame in 2004. She was Chairwoman of the National Information Systems Advisory Panel in the early 1980s.\n\nNycum earned a degree from Ohio Wesleyan University. She attended Duquesne University School of Law and graduated from Stanford Law School.\n\nNycum has worked with fellow information security researcher Donn B. Parker. They co-authored the 1973 study \"Computer Abuse\", a minor classic that was one of the first attempts to define and document computer-related crime.\n\nNycum is a computer law scholar and has produced studies on the laws surrounding software patents. She has served as an advisor for the United States government as well as several foreign governments. She approved funding for the Internet in her role as an advisory board member for the National Science Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29256468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29256468", "title": "Tibetan dual system of government", "text": "Tibetan dual system of government\n\nThe Dual System of Government is the traditional diarchal political system of Tibetan peoples whereby the Desi (temporal ruler) coexists with the spiritual authority of the realm, usually unified under a third single ruler. The actual distribution of power between institutions varied over time and location. The Tibetan term Cho-sid-nyi (; alternate spellings include \"Chhos-srid-gnyis\", \"Chhoe-sid-nyi\", and \"Chos-sid-nyi\") literally means \"both Dharma and temporal,\" but may also be translated as \"dual system of religion and politics.\"\n\nBecause the ultimate ruler is the patron and protector of state religion, some aspects of the dual system of government may be likened to the Supreme Governance of the Church of England, or even to theocracy. However, other aspects resemble secularism, aiming to separate the doctrines of religion and politics. Under the Cho-sid-nyi, both religious and temporal authorities wield actual political power, albeit within officially separate institutions. Religious and secular officials might work side by side, each responsible to different bureaucracies.\n\nSince at least the period of the Mongol presence in Tibet during the 13th and 14th centuries, Buddhist and Bön clerics had participated in secular government, having the same rights as laymen to be appointed state officials, both military and civil. This system stood in stark contrast with that of China, in which the Buddhist view of politics as a \"dismal science\" as well as the Confucian monopoly on the bureaucracy precluded such political activity by the Sangha. By the Ming Dynasty (founded 1368), the Sakya held office above the heads of both components, embodying a government of both \"chos\" and \"srid\". As a result, there were two sets of laws and officials, the religious () and the temporal (), however the branches shared the government and did not operate exclusively of each other. This system often operated under Mongol and Chinese overlordship with the respective emperor above the local Tibetan administration.\n\nThe Tibetan form of government from 1642 until 1951 was the Cho-sid-nyi. The dual system was implemented during a period of consolidation under the Fifth Dalai Lama (r. 1642–1682), who unified Tibet religiously and politically after a prolonged civil war. He brought the government of Tibet under the control of the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism after defeating the rival Kagyu and Jonang sects and the secular ruler, the Tsangpa prince. The Tibetan model sought to produce a synthesis of the complementary components of the mundane norm: Dharma () and Samsara (). One basic assumption of this system is that the temporal lord depended on religion for legitimacy, while the institution of state religion depended on patronage and protection from the political élite.\n\nIn 1751, the Seventh Dalai Lama abolished the post of Desi (or Regent), in whom too much power had been placed. The Desi was replaced by the Kashag (Council) to represent the civil administration. The Dalai Lama thus became the spiritual and political leader of Tibet.\nIn Bhutan, the Cho-sid-nyi was established by Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal in the 17th century under the code known as the Tsa Yig. Having fled sectarian persecution in Tibet, Ngawang Namgyal established the Drukpa Lineage as the state religion. Under the Bhutanese system, the powers of the government were split between the religious branch headed by the Je Khenpo of the Drukpa Lineage and the civil administrative branch headed by the Druk Desi. Both the Je Khenpo and Druk Desi were under the nominal authority of the Shabdrung, a reincarnation of Ngawang Namgyal. After the death of Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal, Bhutan nominally followed the dual system of government. In practice, the Shabdrung was often a child under the control of the Druk Desi, and regional penlops (governors) often administered their districts in defiance of the Druk Desi until the rise of the unified monarchy at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nIn Ladakh and Sikkim, two related Chogyal dynasties reigned with absolute control, punctuated by periods of invasion and colonization by Tibet, Bhutan, India, Nepal, and the British Empire. The basis of the Chogyal monarchy in both Ladakh and Sikkim was its recognition by Three Lamas, and the title \"Chogyal\" (; \"Dharma Raja\" or \"Religious King\") itself refers to the dual system of government. Ladakh's Namgyal dynasty lasted from 1470 until 1834. The autonomy of the Tibetan élite in Ladakh, as well as their system of government, ended with the campaigns of General Zorawar Singh and Rajput suzerainty. Ladakh became a region within the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. The Namgyal dynasty continued in Sikkim from 1542 until 1975, when the kingdom voted by plebiscite to join the union of India.\n\nThe only modern example of a sovereign government operating under the Cho-sid-nyi is Bhutan, although it exists in a highly modified form. In 1907, in an effort to reform the dysfunctional political system, the penlops (governors) of Bhutan orchestrated the establishment of a Bhutanese monarchy with Ugyen Wangchuck, the penlop of Trongsa installed as hereditary king, with the support of Britain and against the wishes of Tibet. Since the establishment of the Wangchuck dynasty in 1907, the office of the Druk Desi has been held by the reigning Druk Gyalpo (King of Bhutan). Under the monarchy, the relative influence of the Je Khenpo has diminished. Nonetheless, the position remains a powerful one and the Je Khenpo is typically viewed as the closest and most powerful advisor to the Druk Gyalpo.\n\nThe office of Shabdrung has fared less well, and has been subsumed by the office of the Druk Gyalpo. The royal family suffered from questions of legitimacy in its early years, with the reincarnations of the various Shabdrungs posing a threat. According to one Drukpa source, the Shabdrung's brother Chhoki Gyeltshen challenged the 1926 accession of King Jigme Wangchuck. He was rumored to have met with Mahatma Gandhi to garner support for the Shabdrung against the King. The Seventh Shabdrung, Jigme Dorji was then \"retired\" to Talo monastery and died in 1931, under rumors of assassination. He was the last Shabdrung recognized by Bhutan; subsequent claimants to the incarnation have not been recognized by the government. In 1962, Jigme Ngawang Namgyal, known as \"Shabdrung Rimpoche\" to his followers, fled Bhutan for India where he spent the remainder of his life. Until 2002, Bhutanese pilgrims were able to journey to Kalimpong, just south of Bhutan, to visit with the Master. On April 5, 2003, the Shabdrung died. Some of his followers claim he was poisoned, while Kuensel took pains to explain he died after an extended bout with cancer. In early 2007, reports alleged that the current Shabdrung Pema Namgyel, then a small child, had been held under house arrest in Bhutan along with his parents since 2005 after being invited to Bhutan from his home in India.\n\nThe Constitution of Bhutan, enacted in 2008, confirms Bhutan's commitment to the Cho-sid-nyi system. However the title \"Druk Desi\" never appears in the Constitution, and all administrative powers are vested in the Druk Gyalpo and civilian offices directly. Furthermore, the Druk Gyalpo appoints the Je Khenpo on advice of the Five Lopons, and the democratic Constitution itself is the supreme law of the land, as opposed to a Shabdrung figurehead. In the 2008 Constitution, there is no reference whatsoever to the office of Shabdrung.\n\nThe Parliament of the Tibetan government in exile consists of 43–46 members including 10 religious delegates (2 members each from the four schools of Tibetan Buddhism and the traditional Bön school). Aside from seats reserved for religious representatives, offices are generally open to clerics: the Prime Minister of its Parliament is Lobsang Tenzin, a Buddhist monk. The administration of the government in exile was headed for decades by the Dalai Lama, but in 2011, he ceded his temporal (secular) powers, keeping only his role as spiritual leader.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23893622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23893622", "title": "Treaty of Zaragoza", "text": "Treaty of Zaragoza\n\nThe Treaty of Zaragoza, or Treaty of Saragossa, also referred to as the Capitulation of Zaragoza, was a peace treaty between the Spanish Crown and Portugal, signed on 22 April 1529 by King John III and the Emperor Charles V, in the Aragonese city of Zaragoza. The treaty defined the areas of Castilian (\"Spanish\") and Portuguese influence in Asia, in order to resolve the \"Moluccas issue\", which had arisen because both kingdoms claimed the Moluccas islands for themselves, asserting that it was within their area of influence established by the Treaty of Tordesillas in 1494. The conflict began in 1520, when expeditions of both kingdoms reached the Pacific Ocean, because no agreed meridian of longitude had been established in the orient.\n\nIn 1494 Castile and Portugal signed the Treaty of Tordesillas, dividing the world into two areas of exploration and colonisation: the Castilian and the Portuguese. It proclaimed a meridian in the Atlantic Ocean, with areas west of the line exclusive to Spain, and east of the line to Portugal.\n\nIn 1511, Malacca, then the centre of Asian trade, was conquered for Portugal by Afonso de Albuquerque. Getting to know the secret location of the so-called \"spice islands\" – the Banda Islands in the Moluccas, then the single world source of nutmeg and cloves, and the main purpose for the travels in the Indian Ocean – Albuquerque sent an expedition led by António de Abreu in search of the Moluccas, particularly the Banda islands. The expedition arrived in early 1512, passing en route through the Lesser Sunda Islands, being the first Europeans to get there. Before reaching Banda, the explorers visited the islands of Buru, Ambon and Seram. Later, after a separation forced by a shipwreck, Abreu's vice-captain Francisco Serrão, sailed to the north and, but his ship sank off Ternate, where he obtained a license to build a Portuguese fortress-factory: the .\n\nLetters describing the \"Spice Islands\", from Serrão to Ferdinand Magellan, who were friends and possibly cousins, helped Magellan persuade the Spanish crown to finance the first circumnavigation of the earth. On 6 November 1521, the Moluccas, \"the cradle of all spices\", were reached from the east by Magellan's fleet, sailing then under Juan Sebastián Elcano, at the service of the Spanish Crown. Before Magellan and Serrão could meet in the Moluccas, Serrão died on the island of Ternate, almost at the same time Magellan was killed in the battle of Mactan in the Philippines.\n\nAfter the Magellan-Elcano expedition (1519–1522), Charles V sent a second expedition, led by García Jofre de Loaísa, to colonise the islands, based on the assertion that they were in the Castilian zone, under the Treaty of Tordesillas. After some difficulties, the expedition reached the Moluccas, docking at Tidore, where the Spanish established a fort. There was inevitable conflict with the Portuguese, who were already established in Ternate. After a year of fighting, the Spanish suffer as defeat but, despite that, nearly a decade of skirmishes over the possession of the islands ensued.\n\nIn 1524, both kingdoms organised the \"Junta de Badajoz-Elvas\" to resolve the dispute. Each crown appointed three astronomers and cartographers, three pilots and three mathematicians, who formed a committee to establish the exact location of the antimeridian of Tordesillas, and the intention was to divide the whole world into two equal hemispheres.\n\nThe Portuguese delegation sent by King João III included António de Azevedo Coutinho, Diogo Lopes de Sequeira, Lopo Homem, a cartographer and cosmographer, and Simão Fernandes. The plenipotentiary from Portugal was Mercurio Gâtine, and those from Spain were Count Mercurio Gâtine, Garcia de Loaysa, Bishop of Osma, and García de Padilla, grand master of the Order of Calatrava. Former Portuguese cartographer Diogo Ribeiro, was part of the Spanish delegation.\n\nAn amusing story is said to have taken place at this meeting. According to contemporary Castilian writer Peter Martyr d'Anghiera, a small boy stopped the Portuguese delegation and asked if they intended to divide up the world. The delegation answered that they were. The boy responded by baring his backside and suggesting that they draw their line through his butt crack.\n\nThe board met several times, at Badajoz and Elvas, without reaching an agreement. Geographic knowledge at that time was inadequate for an accurate assignment of longitude, and each group chose maps or globes that showed the islands to be in their own hemisphere. John III and Charles V agreed to not send anyone else to the Moluccas until it was established in whose hemisphere they were situated.\n\nBetween 1525 and 1528 Portugal sent several expeditions to the area around the Moluccas. Gomes de Sequeira and Diogo da Rocha were sent by the governor of Ternate Jorge de Meneses to the Celebes (also already visited by Simão de Abreu in 1523) and to the north. The expeditioners were the first Europeans to reach the Caroline Islands, which they named \"Islands de Sequeira \". Explorers such as Martim Afonso de Melo (1522-24), and possible Gomes de Sequeira (1526-1527), sighted the Aru Islands and the Tanimbar Islands. In 1526 Jorge de Meneses reached northwestern Papua New Guinea, landing in Biak in the Schouten Islands, and from there he sailed to Waigeo on the Bird's Head Peninsula.\n\nOn the other hand, in addition to the Loaísa expedition from Spain to the Moluccas (1525-1526), the Castilians sent an the expedition there via the Pacific, led by Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón (1528) (prepared by Hernán Cortés in Mexico), in order to compete with the Portuguese in the region. Members of the Garcia Jofre de Loaísa expedition were taken prisoner by the Portuguese, who returned the survivors to Europe by the western route. Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón reached the Marshall Islands, and in two failed attempts to return from the Moluccas via the Pacific, explored part of west and northern New Guinea, also reaching the Schouten Islands and sighting Yapen, as well as the Admiralty Islands and the Carolines.\n\nOn 10 February 1525, Charles V's younger sister Catherine of Austria married John III of Portugal, and on 11 March 1526, Charles V married king John's sister Isabella of Portugal. These crossed weddings strengthened the ties between the two crowns, facilitating an agreement regarding the Moluccas. It was in the interests of the emperor to avoid conflict, so that he could focus on his European policy, and the Spaniards did not know then how to get spices from the Moluccas to Europe via the eastern route. The Manila-Acapulco route was only established by Andrés de Urdaneta in 1565.\n\nThe Treaty of Zaragoza laid down that the eastern border between the two domain zones was 297.5 leagues (1,763 kilometres, 952 nautical miles), or 17° east, of the Maluku Islands. The treaty included a safeguard clause which stated that the deal would be undone if at any time the emperor wished to revoke it, with the Portuguese being reimbursed the money they had to pay, and each nation \"will have the right and the action as that is now.\" That never happened however, because the emperor desperately needed the Portuguese money to finance the War of the League of Cognac against his arch-rival Francis I of France.\n\nThe treaty did not clarify or modify the line of demarcation established by the Treaty of Tordesillas, nor did it validate Spain's claim to equal hemispheres (180° each), so the two lines divided the Earth into unequal portions. Portugal's portion was roughly 191° of the Earth's circumference, whereas Spain's portion was roughly 169°. There was a ±4° margin of uncertainty as to the exact size of both portions, due to the variation of opinion about the precise location of the Tordesillas line.\n\nUnder the treaty, Portugal gained control of all lands and seas west of the line, including all of Asia and its neighbouring islands so far \"discovered\", leaving Spain with most of the Pacific Ocean. Although the Philippines was not mentioned in the treaty, Spain implicitly relinquished any claim to it because it was well west of the line. Nevertheless, by 1542, King Charles V had decided to colonise the Philippines, assuming that Portugal would not protest too vigorously because the archipelago had no spices. Although he failed in his attempt, King Philip II succeeded in 1565, establishing the initial Spanish trading post at Manila. As his father had expected, there was little opposition from the Portuguese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22792", "title": "Treaty on Open Skies", "text": "Treaty on Open Skies\n\nThe Treaty on Open Skies entered into force on January 1, 2002, and currently has 34 party states. It establishes a program of unarmed aerial surveillance flights over the entire territory of its participants. The treaty is designed to enhance mutual understanding and confidence by giving all participants, regardless of size, a direct role in gathering information about military forces and activities of concern to them. Open Skies is one of the most wide-ranging international efforts to date promoting openness and transparency of military forces and activities. The concept of \"mutual aerial observation\" was initially proposed to Soviet Premier Nikolai Bulganin at the Geneva Conference of 1955 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower; however, the Soviets promptly rejected the concept and it lay dormant for several years. The treaty was eventually signed as an initiative of US president (and former Director of Central Intelligence) George H. W. Bush in 1989. Negotiated by the then-members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the agreement was signed in Helsinki, Finland, on March 24, 1992.\n\nThis treaty is not related to civil-aviation open skies agreements.\n\nThe 34 state parties to the Open Skies Treaty are: Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark (including Greenland), Estonia, Finland, France, the Republic of Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\nKyrgyzstan has signed the treaty but has not yet ratified it. Canada and Hungary are the Depositories of the treaty in recognition of their special contributions to the Open Skies process. The \"Depository\" countries maintain treaty documents and provide administrative support.\n\nThe Open Skies treaty is one of unlimited duration, and is open to accession by other states. The republics of the former Soviet Union (USSR) that have not already become state parties to the treaty may join it at any time. Applications from other interested countries are subject to a consensus decision by the Open Skies Consultative Commission (OSCC), the organization, based in Vienna, Austria, that is charged with carrying out the implementation of the treaty. The Organization for Security and Co-Operation in Europe meets monthly at its headquarters in Vienna. \nEight countries have joined into the treaty since it entered into force in 2002: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, and Sweden. Notably missing are Austria, Switzerland, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Moldova, Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan.\n\nThe Open Skies Consultative Commission is the implementing body for the Treaty on Open Skies. It meets monthly at the Vienna headquarters of the Organization for Security and Co-Operation in Europe, and consists of representatives from each of the states that is a party to the treaty.\n\nThe Open Skies regulations covers the territory over which the parties exercise sovereignty, including mainland, islands, and internal and territorial waters. The treaty specifies that the entire territory of a member state is open to observation. Observation flights may only be restricted for reasons of flight safety and not for reasons of national security.\n\nObservation aircraft may be provided by either the observing party or by the observed party (the \"taxi option\"), at the latter's choice. All Open Skies aircraft and sensors must pass specific certification and pre-flight inspection procedures to ensure that they are compliant with treaty standards. The official certified U.S. Open Skies aircraft is the OC-135B Open Skies.\n\nCanada uses a C-130 Hercules aircraft equipped with a \"SAMSON\" sensor pod to conduct flights over other treaty nations. The pod is a converted CC-130 fuel tank modified to carry the permitted sensors, along with associated on-board mission systems. A consortium of nations consisting of Belgium, Netherlands, Luxemburg, Canada, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain own and operate this system. The costs of maintaining the SAMSON Pod are shared, based on each nation's flight quota and actual use.\n\nBulgaria, Romania, Russia and Ukraine use the Antonov An-30 for their flights. The Czech Republic also used to use the An-30 for this purpose but they apparently retired all of theirs from service in 2003.\n\nRussia also uses a Tu-154M-ON monitoring aircraft. Germany formerly used this type as well until the aircraft was lost in a 1997 accident. Russia is phasing out both An-30 and Tu-154M-ON and replacing them with two Tu-214ON with the registrations RA-64519 and RA-64525; though this aircraft's new sensor suite is currently being challenged by the USA.\n\nSweden uses a Saab 340 aircraft (\"OS-100\") that was certified in 2004.\n\nUntil 2008, the UK designated aircraft was an Andover C.1(PR) aircraft, registration XS596. Since then the UK has used a variety of aircraft including a Saab 340, An-30 and an OC-135.\n\nIn 2017, the German Air Force purchased an Airbus A319 as its future Open Skies aircraft.\n\nOpen Skies aircraft may have video, optical panoramic and framing cameras for daylight photography, infra-red line scanners for a day/night capability, and synthetic aperture radar for a day/night all weather capability. Photographic image quality will permit recognition of major military equipment (e.g., permit a member state to distinguish between a tank and a truck), thus allowing significant transparency of military forces and activities. Sensor categories may be added and capabilities improved by agreement among member states. All sensors used in Open Skies must be commercially available to all signatories. Imagery resolution is limited to 30 centimetres.\n\nEach state party is obligated to receive observation flights per its passive quota allocation. Each state party may conduct as many observation flights - its active quota - as its passive quota. During the first three years after entry into force, each state will be obligated to accept no more than seventy-five percent of its passive quota. Since the overall annual passive quota for the United States is 42, this means that it will be obligated to accept no more than 31 observation flights a year during this three-year period. Only two flights were requested over the United States during 2005, by the Russian Federation and Republic of Belarus Group of states parties (which functions as a single entity for quota allocation purposes). The United States is entitled to 8 of the 31 annual flights available over Russia/Belarus. Additionally, the United States is entitled to one flight over Ukraine, which is shared with Canada.\n\nImagery collected from Open Skies missions is available to any state party upon request for the cost of reproduction. As a result, the data available to each state party is much greater than that which it can collect itself under the treaty quota system.\n\nAt a Geneva Conference meeting with Soviet Premier Nikolai Bulganin in 1955, President Eisenhower proposed that the United States and Soviet Union conduct surveillance overflights of each other's territory to reassure each country that the other was not preparing to attack. The fears and suspicions of the Cold War led Soviet General Secretary Nikita Khrushchev to reject Eisenhower's proposal.\n\nDuring a five-day summit conference held in Geneva, Switzerland at the end of July 1955, the Soviet Union and United States held serious talks about disarmament and the United States put forward proposals for mutual reconnaissance flights over each other's air space, known as the Open Skies proposal. The United States had a large number of RB-47 and RB-36 reconnaissance aircraft at its disposal for such activities, however the Soviets turned down this proposal. However, this Geneva Conference was universally accepted as a turning point in the Cold War. The tensions in Europe were felt to be a stalemate. However, both the Soviet Union and United States were willing to talk about their differences, rather than increase them into a state of war.\n\nThirty-four years later, the Open Skies concept was reintroduced by President George H. W. Bush as a means to build confidence and security between all North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and Warsaw Pact countries. In February 1990, an international Open Skies conference involving all NATO and Warsaw Pact countries opened in Ottawa, Canada. Subsequent rounds of negotiations were held in Budapest, Hungary; Vienna, Austria; and Helsinki, Finland.\n\nOn March 24, 1992, the Open Skies Treaty was signed in Helsinki by Secretary of State James Baker and foreign ministers from 23 other countries. The treaty entered into force on January 2, 2002, after Russia and Belarus completed ratification procedures.\n\nIn November 1992, President Bush assigned responsibility for overall training, management, leadership, coordination and support for U.S. Open Skies observation missions to the On-Site Inspection Agency (OSIA), now a part of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). Until entry into force in January 2002, DTRA support for the treaty involved participating in training and joint trial flights (JTFs). The U.S. has conducted over 70 JTFs since 1993. By March 2003, DTRA had successfully certified 16 camera configurations on the OC-135B aircraft. They also had contributed to the certification of the Bulgarian An-30, Hungarian An-26, POD Group (consisting of Belgium, Canada, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal and Spain) C-130H, Romanian An-30, Russian An-30, and Ukrainian An-30. The United States successfully flew its first Open Skies mission over Russia in December 2002.\n\nWith entry into force of the treaty, formal observation flights began in August 2002. During the first treaty year, state parties conducted 67 observation flights. In 2004, state parties conducted 74 missions, and planned 110 missions for 2005. On March 8 and 9, 2007, Russia conducted overflights of Canada under the Treaty. The OSCC continues to address modalities for conducting observation missions and other implementation issues.\n\nSince 2002 a total of 40 missions have taken place over the UK. There were 24 quota missions conducted by: Russia—20; Ukraine—three; and Sweden—one. There were 16 training flights conducted by: Benelux (joint with Estonia); Estonia (joint with Benelux); Georgia—three (one joint with Sweden); Sweden—three (one joint with Georgia); USA - three; Latvia; Lithuania; Romania; Slovenia; and Yugoslavia. Also since 2002 the UK has undertaken a total of 51 open skies missions. 38 were quota missions to the following countries: Ukraine (five); Georgia (seven) and Russia (26). 13 missions were training missions to the following nations: Bulgaria; Yugoslavia; Estonia; Slovenia (three); Sweden (three); USA; Latvia, Lithuania and the Benelux. The flights cost approximately £50,000 per operational mission, and approximately £25,000 for training missions with an approximate annual cost of £175,000.\n\nRussian Defence Ministry spokesman stated on 4 February 2016 that Turkey had refused a Russian Open Skies mission, planned to take place in 1–5 February 2016, to fly over areas adjacent to Syria, as well as over NATO airbases. According to Russia, Turkey gave no explanation regarding the limitations, and claimed them to indicate illegal military activity in Syrian territory. The OSCC hasn't commented on the alleged violation of the Treaty by Turkey.\n\nBy 2016, Russian aircraft had been using equipment upgraded over initial equipment.\n\nBoth Russia and the United States have alleged that the other is violating the provisions of the treaty. In August 2018, the US Congress refused to fund modernization of the US airplanes used for Open Skies flights.\n\nThis article includes public domain text from the following United States Government sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "45687585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45687585", "title": "Water Resources Research Act", "text": "Water Resources Research Act\n\nThe Water Resources Research Act of 1964 (WRRA) undertakes \"... a coordinated scientific research program in water [supply reference] ...\", which constitutes \"... the greatest resource problem facing the West and the Nation ...\" The WRRA's principal result was establishment of the National Institutes for Water Resources.\n[explain origins in Eisenhower administration, eventual fulfillment in 88th Congress with unusual federal governance and explicitly enumerated research goals]\nOne of the earliest research grants of the WRRA happened to go to eventual Nobel Memorial Prize-laureate Elinor Ostrom at the beginning of her career [needs reference].\n\n"}
